-- 
EU Transactions Tax, India Yuan Loans Decision, SEC Swap Rule: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-09-12T13:05:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/eu-transactions-tax-india-yuan-loans-decision-sec-swap-rule-compliance.html
The European Union’s planned tax on
financial transactions should have a “broad base” covering
equities, bonds, currencies and derivatives to ensure it can’t
be evaded, the finance ministers of  France  and Germany said.  The levy should be imposed when at least one party to a
trade is located in the EU, with territorial coverage in the
region to be “as broad as legally permissible,” Germany’s
Wolfgang Schaeuble and France’s Francois Baroin said in a joint
letter to the  European Commission  published Sept. 9.  The commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm, last
month said it will draw up proposals for a transaction tax
before a summit of world leaders in November, backing calls by
French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor  Angela
Merkel  for the levy.  The region’s lenders have criticized the plans, warning
that such a measure will harm economic recovery.  Discussions among nations on how the money raised by the
tax should be spent shouldn’t delay progress in setting it up,
the ministers said.  Special Section: Greece  Germany  Readies Surrender in Fight to Save Greece  Germany may be getting ready to give up on Greece, as
measures in the credit markets signal growing concern about the
smaller nation’s ability to repay investors.  Yields on Greek two-year notes rose above 60 percent today
for the first time. Credit-default swaps to insure the country’s
five-year bonds and to speculate on government securities closed
at an all-time high of 3,500 basis points on Sept. 9, according
to CMA. The contracts are the highest in the world and more than
three times the 1,134 basis points for Portuguese debt.  After almost two years of fighting to contain the region’s
debt crisis and providing the biggest share of three European
bailouts, German Chancellor Angela Merkel is laying the
groundwork for what markets say is almost a sure thing: a Greek
default.  Officials in Merkel’s government are debating how to shore
up German banks in the event that Greece fails to meet the
budget-cutting terms of its aid package and is unable to get a
bailout-loan payment, three coalition officials said Sept. 9.
The move capped a week of escalating German threats that Greece
won’t get the money unless it meets fiscal targets, and as
investors raised bets on a default.  Protecting their banks and a hardening of rescue terms risk
isolating Germany and unnerving global policy makers already
fretting that the region’s political tussles are roiling markets
and threatening growth. Underscoring the tone of weekend talks
of Group of Seven finance chiefs, U.S. Treasury Secretary
Timothy F. Geithner told Bloomberg Television that European
authorities must “demonstrate they have enough political will”
to end the crisis.  Lars Feld, a member of the German government’s council of
economic advisers, said today that a “disorderly
restructuring” of Greece may take place if the Greek government
decides to get out of the euro zone.  Fredrik Erixon, head of the  European Centre for
International Political Economy  in Brussels, said Germany’s
concern is broader than Greece, which is in its third year of a
deepening recession, and centers on how its banks and economy
would cope if the debt crisis spreads.  “Germany is preparing for the worst, which is that the
crisis in the euro zone is going to be much bigger for
everyone,” Erixon said.  For more, click here.  For commentary by Lars Feld, click here.  For commentary by  Neil Barofsky , former special inspector
general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, click here.  Separately, questions over Greece’s ability to meet the
terms of its first rescue package are dogging the indebted
nation as bondholders weigh whether to participate in a debt
exchange that’s crucial to a second bailout.  Greece sought preliminary responses Sept. 9 from bond
investors to the proposed debt swap, part of a 159 billion-euro
($220 billion) European Union rescue plan agreed upon in July.
Responses to the inquiry, which isn’t a formal offer, are
nonbinding and will be aggregated by regulators country by
country, according to the Greek government.  The Greek government is still trying to show it can reach
budget-cutting targets required for the next 8 billion-euro
payment from a bailout engineered in 2010.  Greece said last week that it will accelerate further
austerity measures as pressure mounted from European partners
before the payment of the sixth tranche of bailout loans under
last year’s 110 billion-euro loan package. A scheduled quarterly
review of Greece’s progress by the EU and the  International
Monetary Fund  was unexpectedly suspended for 10 days and won’t
resume until mid-month.  For more, click here, and see Interviews section, below.  Compliance Policy  Swap Lobbyists Pushing SEC Version of Trading Rules Over CFTC  The Securities and Exchange Commission and  Commodity
Futures Trading Commission  are expected, because of rules
created by Congress, to work in tandem to oversee the $601
trillion swaps market. This may lead financial companies to
stoke differences between the two in a quest for favorable
treatment.  The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act gave the CFTC authority over most
swaps, with the SEC overseeing those based on securities, to
improve transparency and reduce risk in the market.  Firms including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest asset
manager, have praised the SEC’s approach to a rule meant to curb
abuses by swap dealers selling to less sophisticated investors
including pension funds, endowments and local governments.
Lawmakers told regulators to write the rule after swaps pushed
Jefferson County, Alabama, to the brink of bankruptcy.  U.S. Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, said the SEC
was proposing weaker controls than Congress wanted when it added
the provision to the Dodd-Frank overhaul of rules for Wall
Street.  Under the law, swap dealers must act in the best interests
of towns, cities and other so-called special entities when
serving as their adviser. The CFTC proposed regulations
implementing those requirements on Dec. 9; the SEC proposed its
rule on June 29.  Under the SEC proposal, an adviser would be considered
independent if it didn’t receive more than 10 percent of gross
revenue from the special entity in the previous year. The CFTC
proposal would consider dealers to be independent if they don’t
have “material business relationships” with special entities.  The comment period for the SEC’s proposal expired more than
a week ago.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment
on the rule proposal, and  Steve Adamske , a spokesman for the
CFTC, didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  The agencies could decide to forge a common standard or
they could stay on different paths, forcing dealers to follow
two sets of rules.  India Decides on Enabling Borrowing in Yuan, Bank Asset Sales  Indian policy makers will hold a meeting on Sept. 15 to
consider letting local companies borrow in yuan, according to a
 finance ministry  official with direct knowledge of the matter.  Officials from the nation’s central bank, the  finance
ministry  and the capital markets regulator,  Securities and
Exchange Board of India , will review overseas debt rules, said
the person, asking not to be identified before any public
announcement from the government.  The meeting may help address requests from Indian power
producers purchasing equipment from Chinese vendors, the
official said, without elaborating.  Separately, India’s department of disinvestment eased rules
for investment banks, allowing them to manage its asset sales
program and handle capital raising plans of non-state companies
in the same business, the Mint newspaper reported, citing
officials it didn’t name.  The former restriction, which raised questions about
possible conflicts of interest, was imposed after bankers
advising a share sale of state-run Steel Authority of India Ltd.
were found to handling the share sale plan of rival private
company Tata Steel Ltd., the newspaper reported.  Compliance Action  FBI Raid on Solyndra May Herald Escalation of Watchdog Probe  An FBI raid on Solyndra Inc., a solar-panel maker that
failed after receiving a $535 million loan guarantee from the
U.S. Energy Department, may signal the escalation of a probe
into President Barack Obama’s clean-energy program.  Agents for  Energy Department  Inspector General Gregory
Friedman, who has called the department’s clean-energy loan
program lacking in “transparency and accountability,” joined
in the search Sept. 8 at the Fremont, California, headquarters
of Solyndra, which filed for  bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 6.  Republicans critical of the program stepped up their
attacks following the raid, and two House Democrats questioned
the integrity of the company, indicating a potential political
crisis for the president. A foundation headed by an Obama
campaign contributor was a principal investor in Solyndra.  The Energy Department gave Solyndra the most federal
backing awarded a solar manufacturer.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation executed a search
warrant at Solyndra, bureau spokeswoman Julie Sohn said in an
interview. Sohn said she couldn’t provide details about the
investigation. Solyndra, which shut its factory and fired 1,100
people, said in its filing for bankruptcy protection that it had
liabilities of $783.8 million.  Dave Miller, a Solyndra spokesman, and Debra Grassgreen,
the company’s bankruptcy attorney with  Pachulski Stang Ziehl &
Jones LLP , didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment on
the raid. White House spokesman Eric Schultz declined to comment
on the raid, referring questions on  law enforcement  to the
 Justice Department  and on loans to the Energy Department, which
also declined to comment.  Deloitte Says Chinese Law Prevents Sending Documents to SEC  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd.’s China affiliates said they
have cooperated with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
as much as possible under Chinese law regarding its former
auditing client  Longtop Financial Technologies Ltd. (LFT)   The law precludes Deloitte from producing the requested
documents to a foreign regulator without approval from China’s
own regulatory authorities, spokesman Wilfred Lee said in an e-
mailed statement Sept. 9.  The SEC said Sept. 8 that it filed an enforcement action
against Shanghai-based Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd. for
failing to produce documents related to an investigation of
Longtop after subpoenas issued in May. Longtop said that month
that Deloitte quit because of errors in the company’s financial
records. In July, the SEC and  Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board  met with counterparts in China to discuss cross-
border oversight.  “This is essentially a matter between regulators in China
and the United States; Deloitte China is happy to comply with
any outcome that is agreed between them,” the company’s
statement said.  Spherix Is Latest U.S. Stock Halted by Circuit Breakers  Spherix Inc. (SPEX)  is the latest U.S. stock halted by circuit
breakers implemented in June 2010.  The curbs were created after the 20-minute rout on May 6,
2010, erased $862 billion from the value of U.S. equities before
prices rebounded. New rules proposed by exchanges on April 5,
2011, would shift the market to a limit-up/limit-down system
that prevents shares from moving more than a certain amount.  RBS Plans Breakup of Commercial Real Estate Assets, Mail Says  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , Britain’s biggest
government-controlled bank, is planning to break up its 37
billion pound ($59 billion) commercial real estate portfolio,
the Daily Mail reported.  The assets, ranging from supermarkets to hotels, will be
split into 15 funds as RBS seeks to attract more investors, the
newspaper said, citing an unnamed source. The bank is seeking
partners to take a 50 percent stake in the funds and may receive
interest from private-equity firms, it said.  Fannie, Freddie Said Near SEC Settlement on Loan Disclosure  Government-supported housing-finance agencies  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac  are within months of settling claims that they
failed to inform investors of their exposure to subprime
mortgages before the 2008 credit crisis, according to a person
with knowledge of the discussions.  The housing companies will neither admit nor deny
defrauding investors, nor will they pay any fines under the
proposed settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the talks are private.  Brad German , a spokesman for Freddie Mac, declined to
comment, as did SEC spokesman John Nester. Amy Bonitatibus, a
spokeswoman for Fannie Mae, didn’t respond to a request for
comment late Sept. 8.  For more, click here.  Courts  CSK Auto Parent to Pay $20.9 Million to Settle U.S. Probe  O’Reilly Automotive Inc. (ORLY)  agreed to pay $20.9 million to
resolve a U.S. Justice Department probe of a scheme to
manipulate earnings and double bill at CSK Auto Corp. before
O’Reilly bought it in 2008.  CSK accepted responsibility for the illegal conduct of its
former employees, and as part of the agreement neither company
will face further prosecution, according to an e-mailed
statement from the Justice Department Sept. 9. According to the
non-prosecution agreement, former CSK employees misstated
earnings at the company from 2001 to 2006, the Justice
Department said.  The investigation has produced guilty pleas from three
former CSK employees, according to the statement  Mark Merz, a spokesman for Springfield, Missouri-based
O’Reilly, declined to comment on the agreement.  The case is U.S. v. Fraser, 09-cr-00372, U.S. District
Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  Interviews/Speeches  Llewellyn Says Recapitalizing Banks Is Europe Priority  John Llewellyn, senior economic policy adviser at Nomura
International Plc, discussed European banks and the debt crisis.  He spoke with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television’s
“The Pulse.”  For the video, click here.  Truglia Says Greece Is ‘Very Close’ to Debt Default  Vincent Truglia, managing director at  Granite Springs Asset
Management , talked about the likelihood of a possible default on
Greek sovereign debt.  Finance  Minister Evangelos Venizelos dismissed “rumors”
of a Greek default, saying the nation is committed to “full
implementation” of the terms of a July agreement for a second
aid package. Truglia spoke with Lisa Murphy on Bloomberg
Television’s “Fast Forward.”  For the video, click here.  Stark Says No Nation ‘Really Protected,’ Irish Times Reports  European Central Bank Executive Board member Juergen Stark
said no country is “really protected” in the current situation
and that governments need to be “ahead of the curve” with
budget cuts, the Irish Times reported.  “We have seen in the case of Greece and Ireland that there
can be a sudden stop, that governments don’t have access to
capital markets anymore to finance their budgets,” Stark told
the Irish Times in the interview published today. “This can
happen for larger, advanced economies too.”  He also said that euro-region governments “have no
intention to expel a country,” according to the newspaper.
“Conditionality is what counts, solidarity must not be
overstretched. Solidarity never can be a one-way street.”  The Irish Times said it conducted the interview on Sept. 9,
the same day Stark announced his resignation from the ECB.  Comings and Goings  Lacaille Says ‘Wavering’ ECB May Be Risky as Stark Quits  Richard Lacaille, chief investment officer at State Street
Global Advisors, talked about Juergen Stark’s resignation from
the European Central Bank’s executive board.  Lacaille also discussed the euro-area debt crisis. He
talked with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television’s “Last
Word.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 