-- 
EU to Classify Spot Carbon as Financial Instrument, Draft Shows

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-09-12T13:41:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/eu-to-classify-spot-carbon-as-financial-instrument-draft-document-shows.html
The European Union’s regulator will
propose classifying spot carbon-dioxide contracts as financial
instruments to better protect the world’s biggest emissions
market from fraud, an EU draft document showed.  The European Commission opted to extend its Markets in
Financial Instruments Directive, or Mifid, to cover spot carbon
deals rather than design a tailor-made regime, according to the
draft proposal obtained by Bloomberg News. The commission wants
to enhance supervision of the market after thieves in January
illegally transferred allowances valued at about 23 million
euros ($31 million) at today’s prices.  “Both spot and derivatives markets will be under a single
supervisor,” the commission said in the explanatory memorandum
accompanying the proposal. Mifid and the EU rules on market
abuse “would apply, thereby comprehensively upgrading the
security of the market without interfering with its purpose,
which remains emissions reduction.”  While carbon futures are already subject to Mifid and the
Market Abuse Directive, known as MAD, contracts for spot
delivery, accounting for about 10 percent of trading, typically
aren’t seen as financial instruments and aren’t bound by the
same laws. Criminals used this regulatory gap to transfer
without authorization about 2 million allowances, known as EUAs,
from companies including Prague-based CEZ AS.  Regulatory Mismatch  “While EUAs would not represent typical financial
instruments in terms of their sustainability and appropriateness
for investors, this potential mismatch in regulatory focus would
be largely overweighed by greater security as banks and
investment firms, entities obliged to monitor trading activity
for fraud, abuse or  money laundering , would assume a bigger role
in vetting prospective traders,” according to the draft.  The commission has said it will present the draft around
October. It will need to be approved by national governments and
the European Parliament to become binding.  Asked whether a draft document has been finalized, Isaac Valero-Ladron, a climate spokesman for the commission, said:
“We’re working to integrate the carbon market in the upcoming
proposal to review the Mifid and the MAD. We are positive about
this necessary step to strengthen the carbon market oversight.”  The ETS is the cornerstone of the EU plan to cut  greenhouse
gases  that scientists blame for  climate change . It imposes
pollution limits on companies including German utility  RWE AG (RWE) 
and  France ’s Electricite de France SA, leading to a cap in 2020
that will be 21 percent below 2005 discharges. Emitters that
produce less carbon dioxide than their quota can sell surplus
allowances, and those exceeding their limits must buy additional
permits or pay a fine of 100 euros per ton of CO2.  Utilities and the International Emissions Trading
Association have expressed doubts about whether reclassifying
spot carbon permits would enhance security.  To contact the reporter:
Ewa Krukowska in Warsaw at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  