-- 
European Stocks Decline on Concern Greece May Default; French Banks Tumble

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-09-12T16:05:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-slump-amid-greece-debt-crisis-concern.html
European stocks slumped for a
second day, dragging the benchmark regional gauge to its lowest
level since July 2009, as speculation mounted that  Germany  is
preparing for Greece to default.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, Societe Generale SA and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) 
tumbled at least 11 percent after two people with knowledge of
the matter said Moody’s Investors Service may cut the banks’
ratings because of their Greek holdings.  AXA SA (CS)  and  ING Groep NV (INGA) 
lost more than 8 percent as insurers posted the second biggest
losses among 19 industry groups on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  The Stoxx 600 lost 2.5 percent to 218.93 at the 4:30 p.m.
close in  London . The gauge extended last week’s 3.7 percent
slide, bringing its slump from this year’s peak on Feb. 17 to 25
percent, as economic data from the U.S. and Europe trailed
forecasts and  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded America’s AAA
sovereign-debt rating.  “Major equity markets remain laced with fear and
uncertainty over the lack of any resolution to the ongoing
crisis,” said  James Hughes , a senior market analyst at Alpari
Ltd. in London.  The Stoxx 600’s slump has dragged the price-earnings ratio
on the gauge to 9.1 times the estimated profits of its
constituent companies, the lowest valuation since March 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  National benchmark indexes declined in all 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index slid 1.6 percent,
Germany’s DAX Index lost 2.3 percent and France’s CAC 40 Index
declined 4 percent. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index extended its drop since
this year’s high to 20 percent.  Germany Debates Crisis  Officials in Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government in
Germany are debating how to shore up the country’s banks should
Greece fail to meet the budget-cutting terms of its aid package,
three coalition officials said on Sept. 9. BNP Paribas, Societe
Generale and  Credit Agricole  may have their ratings cut by
Moody’s this week because of their holdings of the Mediterranean
nation’s debt, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Prime Minister  George Papandreou , vowing to avoid a default
and keep Greece in the euro, approved new measures yesterday to
help plug a budget gap as resistance builds at home and in
Europe to extending more aid to the European Union’s most-
indebted nation.  “Capital preservation is the main consideration right
now,” said Fredrik Nerbrand, the head of global  asset
allocation  at HSBC Holdings Plc in London, in a Bloomberg
Television interview with  Owen Thomas . “This is still an
environment that is highly uncertain. Owning risk is not really
top of my agenda.”  SocGen, BNP Paribas  Societe Generale (GLE)  slid 11 percent to 15.57 euros. BNP
Paribas tumbled 12 percent to 26.12 euros and Credit Agricole
plunged 11 percent to 4.83 euros. All three lenders have tumbled
at least 49 percent in the last three months.  French banks top the list of Greek creditors with $56.7
billion in overall exposure to private and public debt,
according to a June report by the Basel, Switzerland-based Bank
for International Settlements. Moody’s placed the three banks’
ratings on review in June to examine “the potential for
inconsistency between the impact of a possible Greek default or
restructuring and current rating levels,” the rating company
said at the time.  A gauge of insurers posted the second biggest loss among
the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600 after banks, retreating
4.4 percent. AXA slumped 9.7 percent to 8.48 euros and ING lost
8.6 percent to 4.49 euros.  Charter International Plc (CHTR)  rallied 6.6 percent to 857 pence
after  Colfax Corp. (CFX) ’s U.K. unit said the company agreed to buy
the U.K. engineering business for about 1.53 billion pounds
($2.4 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  