-- 
Europe Stress Seen in Commercial Paper Rates

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-09-12T15:48:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/europe-stress-seen-in-french-bank-commercial-paper-rates-credit-markets.html
Societe Generale SA, BNP Paribas SA
and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  are being quoted higher rates than their
competitors in the commercial paper market as the crisis in the
 euro zone  spreads beyond  Greece ,  Portugal  and  Italy .  Investors charged the French companies an average 6.7 basis
points more to borrow three-month commercial paper on Sept. 8
than the rate the lenders said they could pay in the London
interbank offered rate market, according to two buyers who asked
not to be identified because the talks are private. As recently
as July, the banks received CP rates that were lower than Libor.  Premiums on short-term loans are rising as odds of a
default by Greece grows, with German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
preparing plans to aid her nation’s financial companies. BNP,
Societe Generale and  Credit Agricole ,  France ’s largest banks by
market value, may have their credit ratings cut by Moody’s
Investors Service as soon as this week because of their Greek
holdings, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  “Money-market funds have been reducing their exposure to
European banks,” said  Peter Crane , president of Crane Data LLC,
a money-fund research firm in Westborough,  Massachusetts . “A
market rate may be more indicative of where things stand than
the manufactured rates going into Libor.”  Holdings Cut  The eight biggest U.S. money-market funds reduced their
investments in French banks by 46 percent to $42 billion in the
past 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg and published Sept. 9
in the Bloomberg Risk newsletter shows.  Spokeswomen for all three banks, which are based in Paris,
declined to comment.  Rates investors demand for banks in the commercial paper
market rose above Libor last month for the first time since May
2010, when the Greek credit crisis worsened, according to one of
the buyers, who asked not to be identified because the data are
private. Rates on financial commercial paper, which typically
matures in 270 days or less, is used to finance everyday
activities such as payroll and rent, are usually below Libor.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold corporate bonds globally rather than government
debentures climbed to the highest level in more than two years
last week.  Relative yields on company bonds from the U.S. to  Europe 
and  Asia  expanded 10 basis points last week to 236 basis points,
or 2.36 percentage points, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index. The spread, which
has widened from 170 at the end of July, is at the highest since
Aug. 5, 2009.  Yields increased to 3.708 percent from 3.704 percent on
Sept. 2. The Barclays Capital Global Aggregate Corporate Index
has lost 0.94 percent this month, paring the gain for the year
to 5.62 percent.  Default Swaps Rise  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. rose to the highest level since July 2009. The Markit CDX
North America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, climbed for a third day, increasing 4.3 basis
points to a mid-price of 135.9 basis points as of 11:42 a.m. in
 New York , according to Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, has increased from 114.5
at the end of August. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Free Up Capital  Societe Generale (GLE)  plans to free up 4 billion euros ($5.4
billion) in capital through disposals by 2013 to reassure
investors about its finances. The lender’s exposure to Greek
bonds is about 900 million euros and it has “no significant”
holdings of Irish or Portuguese debt, the bank said today in a
statement.  Merkel’s government is aiding lenders and insurers that
face a possible 50 percent loss on their Greek bonds if the next
portion of Greece’s bailout is withheld, according to three
people familiar with the matter, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the deliberations are private.  Moody’s placed the ratings of BNP, Societe Generale and
Credit Agricole on review in June to examine “the potential for
inconsistency between the impact of a possible Greek default or
restructuring and current rating levels,” the rating company
said at the time. Cuts are likely as the review period
concludes, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the matter is confidential.  ‘All Necessary Actions’  Group of Seven finance chiefs vowed on Sept. 9 to support
banks and buoy slowing economic growth as Europe’s debt crisis
roiled financial markets and threatened a global recession.
Renewed fears that European policy makers are failing to prevent
a Greek default and contain their debt woes prompted investors
to sell stocks and push the euro to a six-month low against the
dollar. European bank and sovereign credit risk reached all-time
highs as 10-year Treasury and German bund yields fell to record
lows on demand for a haven.  “We will take all necessary actions to ensure the
resilience of banking systems and financial markets,” G-7
finance ministers and central bankers said in a statement
released during talks in Marseille, France.  Moody’s currently rates  BNP Paribas (BNP) ’ long-term debt at Aa2,
the third-highest investment grade. Credit Agricole is rated
Aa1, the second highest, while Societe Generale is Aa2.  SocGen Paper  As European debt issues roiled global markets, the top U.S.
prime money-market mutual funds cut their assets invested in
securities issued by European banks in July to the lowest level
since 2008, according to a Fitch Ratings report last month.  The average rate for Libor set by the London-based British
Bankers’ Association on Sept. 8 was 33.7 basis points, or 0.337
percentage point. The  Federal Reserve ’s 90-day rate for
financial commercial paper was 28 basis points that day.  Societe Generale was charged 43 basis points to borrow the
three-month commercial paper on Sept. 8, compared with its Libor
submission of 35 basis points, the buyers said. Credit Agricole
had to pay 45 basis points versus a submitted Libor rate of 39
basis points. BNP Paribas paid 41 basis points for the short-
term debt compared with its submission of 35 basis points.  New York-based JPMorgan had the lowest cost among 18 banks
to fund commercial paper at 5 basis points. That compares with a
submitted Libor rate of 30 basis points.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  was charged 35 basis points for short-term
IOUs compared with 29 basis points for its Libor submission.
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  was
charged 32 basis points for commercial paper versus 31 basis
points for its Libor submission.  ‘Headline Risk’  Amanda Williams, a spokeswoman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank, declined to comment. Kerrie McHugh of Bank of America
didn’t respond to calls for comment.  Commercial paper investors are hesitant to lend to some
European banks exposed to the debt crisis and are exacting
higher premiums on concern they may be more affected by negative
news, said  David Coard , head of fixed-income trading in New York
at Williams Capital Group, a brokerage for institutional
investors.  By contrast, “issuers that people consider pristine
credits and not carrying any headline risk get excellent
execution,” Coard said. “It represents, to some degree, a
flight to quality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  