-- 
Euro Falls to Almost Decade Low Against Yen on Greece, Italy Debt Concern

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-09-13T15:40:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/euro-falls-toward-june-2001-low-versus-yen-on-greece-concern-rate-outlook.html
The euro fell toward its weakest
level in a decade against the yen on speculation Greece is
nearing default and as  Italy ’s borrowing costs rose at a sale of
3.9 billion euros ($5.3 billion) of bonds.  The 17-nation currency fluctuated against the dollar after
a statement by a spokesman for French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
that he and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  won’t announce joint
initiatives on the region’s debt crisis today. The yen rose
against all of its 16 major counterparts except for  South
Africa ’s rand as increased concern in the euro area spurred
safety demand. The rand rose as commodity prices rallied.  “The main driver of market stress is euro-zone problems,”
said  Mark McCormick , a currency strategist at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in New York. “There’s a lot of rumors. Markets
are riddled with uncertainty and it’s making for very high
volatility.”  The euro weakened 0.4 percent to 105.19 yen at 11:37 a.m.
in New York, after sliding to 103.90 yesterday, the lowest since
June 2001. The shared currency was little changed at $1.3675.
The yen rose 0.4 percent to 76.93 per dollar.  French Statement  A spokesman for Sarkozy, Franck Louvrier, rejected a report
by Reuters that he and Merkel would announce today joint
initiatives on Greece to stem the debt crisis. Sarkozy may make
a statement after he meets today with European Union President
 Herman Van Rompuy , Louvrier said.  “It’s a market reaction to the news as it develops out of
Europe,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange
at National Bank of Canada in Toronto. “That’s the kind of
noise that hits the market and creates the kind of volatility
that we see.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Group of Seven Volatility Index,
which reflects investor expectations of currency swings in the
future, jumped to 14.4 yesterday, the highest level since Aug.
11, and traded at as much as 14.11 today,  The rand snapped three days of declines after the reports
that  China  may invest in Italy eased investor concern and
boosted appetite for the currency.  Rand Moves  “We’re having a positive global macro backdrop and some
technical conditions that favored a correction in the rand’s
weakness,”  Michael Roche , an emerging-market strategist at MF
Global in  New York .  The rand advanced 0.9 percent to 7.3442 per dollar.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
rose 0.2 percent and crude oil added 1 percent to $89.09 a
barrel in New York.  Italy’s Treasury sold five-year bonds at an average yield
of 5.6 percent, compared with 4.93 percent on July 14, the last
time securities of a similar maturity were sold. Demand was 1.28
times the amount on offer, compared with a bid-to-cover ratio of
1.93 at the previous sale. The Treasury had aimed to sell a
maximum of 4 billion euros.  The euro was boosted yesterday after an Italian government
official said talks had been held with Chinese counterparts
about potential investments in  Europe ’s third-largest economy.
The purchase of Italian bonds was not the focus of the meetings,
which took place in the past few weeks, the official said on
condition of anonymity, without specifying which assets may be
involved.  Italy’s Debt  “The story itself provided some interest, but I don’t
think necessarily it turns the tide,” said  Jeremy Stretch ,
executive director of foreign-exchange strategy in London at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce. “The problem for Italy is
the size of the stock of debt. It’s a pretty big hole and even
the Chinese would struggle to fill that one up on an ongoing
basis.”  The cost of insuring against default on European sovereign
and bank debt rose to records on mounting concern a default by
 Greece  will trigger losses for banks holding the nation’s bonds,
according to CMA. Credit-default swaps signal a 98 percent
probability of default.  Merkel said in an interview with the Berlin-based
broadcaster Inforadio she won’t let Greece fall into
“uncontrolled insolvency” because the risk of contagion for
the other euro-zone countries “is very big.” The so-called
troika of the  International Monetary Fund ,  European Central Bank 
and European Commission representatives will return to Greece
this week, Merkel said.  Euro Strength  The euro has dropped 4.2 percent against the dollar this
month and touched $1.3495 yesterday, the lowest level since
February. The currency’s 14-day relative strength index against
the dollar fell to 29.5, less than 30, signaling it may have
declined too fast and may reverse.  The yen strengthened as  risk aversion  prompted investors to
buy the currency as a refuge. It has appreciated 2.9 percent in
the past week, the best performer among 10 developed-nation
peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes.  The yen tends to appreciate during economic and financial
turmoil because  Japan ’s current-account surplus makes the nation
less reliant on foreign capital.  The Norwegian currency weakened against all but one of 16
major peers tracked by Bloomberg on bets its central bank may
cut  interest rates . The recent strengthening of the krone has
increased the probability of lower borrowing costs, Dagens
Naeringsliv reported last week, citing DnB NOR ASA’s Chief
Executive Officer Rune Bjerke.  A Credit Suisse index shows traders predict the Norges Bank
will cut its benchmark rate by 71 basis points during the next
year, compared with expectations of a 44-point increase at the
start of last month.  Norway’s krone slid to a two-week low of 7.7689 against the
euro, later weakening 0.5 percent to 7.7245. It slipped 0.5
percent to 5.6482 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  