-- 
Europe Crisis May Worsen, Asia Stocks Fall, Sanft Says

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 
2011-09-12T03:11:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/europe-crisis-may-worsen-asia-stocks-fall-sanft-says-correct-.html
(Corrects Erwin Sanft’s title in first paragraph.)  Erwin Sanft, deputy head of Asian
Equities Research at BNP Paribas SA in Hong Kong, comments on
the European sovereign debt crisis and Asian equities in an
interview on Bloomberg Television today in Hong Kong.  Officials in German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government
are debating how to shore up the country’s banks in the event
that  Greece  fails to meet the budget-cutting terms of its aid
package and is unable to get a bailout-loan payment, three
coalition officials said Sept. 9.  On the European sovereign debt crisis:  “Things are probably going to get worse before they get
better. Everyone’s going into this downturn hoping for the best
and we haven’t really seen markets correct as much as they
should given the indicators elsewhere.  “Even though people are talking about recession and
stagnation in the developed world, this is not what’s reflected
in equity valuations yet, even though equities here haven’t done
well this year.  “The battle lines in  Europe  now sit somewhere between
Spain and Italy. Much larger economies are being drawn into this
crisis.”  On Asian equities:  “Here in  Asia , we’re looking at much more downside for
markets.”  On  China ’s stocks:  “China has been the worst performer which is a little
strange. If you look at the earnings in China, it’s one of the
most defensive markets in the region.  “China’s equity market is very separate from its economy.  “Most of the equity market is made up of government
listings. The earnings for the market don’t have much linkage
with the rest of the world.  “For China, we should look at the banking sector in
particular. We’re down to some very low levels with very high
dividend yields. In the short term, those are secure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  