-- 
Hewlett-Packard Rolls Out Security Software Gained in Acquisition Spree

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-09-12T20:45:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/hewlett-packard-rolls-out-security-software-from-acquisitions.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  unveiled a
range of new computer-security software today, part of an effort
to tap about $14 billion in acquisitions during the past year to
help customers manage their data centers.  ArcSight Express 3.0, a package of computer hardware and
software, combs through logs of network activity and users’
actions to look for cyber attacks, Hewlett-Packard said today in
a statement. It also introduced a new Fortify Software Security
Center product, which can test applications for vulnerabilities
to attack, and Tipping Point Web Application Digital Vaccine
software that identifies malicious network traffic.  Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker  is under pressure to
make acquisitions pay off and expand the company’s foothold in
data-center equipment and software. Hewlett-Packard has cut
sales forecasts three times and reversed course on a plan to
produce smartphones and tablets with its WebOS software,
rankling investors. The company also said on Aug. 18 it would
explore a spinoff of its $41 billion personal systems group.  Hewlett-Packard, the world’s largest personal-computer
maker, has made a run of acquisitions to lessen its dependence
on PCs. Last September, it completed a $2.1 billion acquisition
of data-storage company 3Par Inc. It also acquired security
companies ArcSight Inc. and Fortify Software Inc. in the past
year. On Aug. 18, the company announced plans to pay $10.3
billion for search software company Autonomy Corp. Hewlett-
Packard expects that deal to close by the end of this year.  ‘Substantial Overlap’  Jan Zadak, executive vice president of global sales, said
there’s “substantial overlap” between customers who buy  Palo
Alto , California-based Hewlett-Packard’s software and data-
center hardware and PCs. That means the company could use its
computer dominance to sell the newer software products.  Hewlett-Packard’s plan to spin off its PC business has
raised concerns about the company’s long-range strategy. The
stock has fallen 28 percent since Aug. 17, the day before the
news of the shakeup. The shares rose 5 cents to $22.58 at 4 p.m.
today in New York Stock Exchange trading.  Zadak, speaking from  Switzerland , said he’s been traveling
the world the past three weeks trying to explain the company’s
decisions to businesses that buy its products.  “We are of course spending a lot of time with customers,”
he said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  