-- 
Ex-Sequenom Patent Agent Scalia Sentenced to Probation for Insider Trading

-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 
2011-09-12T21:13:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/ex-sequenom-patent-agent-scalia-sentenced-to-probation-for-insider-trading.html
A former  Sequenom Inc. (SQNM)  patent agent
and his brother were sentenced to three years of probation after
they pleaded guilty to conspiring to trade stock options in the
biotechnology company’s shares using inside information.  U.S. District Judge Barry T. Moskowitz in  San Diego  today
also ordered the patent agent, Aaron Scalia, 35, and Stephen
Scalia, 39, to spend four months in a halfway house. Aaron also
must pay $185,000 restitution and perform 250 hours of community
service, the judge said.  “I don’t think a lengthy term of imprisonment is necessary
to get the message across that this is wrong,” Moskowitz said
at today’s sentencing hearing. “This wasn’t a typical situation
of  insider trading  in which there was a corporate official
acting on insider information in order to be paid for that
information.”  Aaron Scalia had regular contact with scientists with
access to Sequenom’s confidential data and shared non-public
information with his brother Stephen Scalia from 2008 through
2009, according to the details of their guilty pleas in
February. U.S. Attorney Laura E. Duffy said in an e-mailed
statement announcing the pleas that Stephen Scalia passed the
information to other people who bought Sequenom shares and made
a profit of more than $600,000.  Last year, the two men who received the tips, Brent A.
Cohen and David V. Myers, of  Cleveland , pleaded guilty to the
same charges, according to court filings. They are scheduled to
be sentenced Oct. 3 by Moskowitz. The U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission separately filed a lawsuit against Cohen and
Myers, according to the filings.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Eric Beste argued at today’s
hearing that the Scalia brothers should get 16-month prison
terms.  ‘Profit Motive’  “This situation does warrant significant punishment,” he
said. “There was a profit motive involved and these two
individuals recognized that they were doing something that was
inappropriate and illegal.”  Michael Lipman, Aaron Scalia’s attorney, said there is
almost always an agreement for compensation in these types of
cases.  “There is absolutely no evidence in this case that my
client got any compensation or expected to get any
compensation,” he told the judge.  Frank Vecchione, Stephen Scalia’s lawyer, said  “it’s
inexplicable, it’s stupid.”  ‘Not Sophisticated’  “Two people who are not sophisticated or well versed in
securities laws went down a road they did not understand,” he
said.  Aaron Scalia admitted passing his first stock tips in 2008
as Sequenom, a San Diego-based company that designs genetic
analysis technology and tests, was seeking to acquire Exact
Sciences Corp., according to the statement.  According to court documents, Aaron Scalia disclosed
material nonpublic information about Sequenom from October 2008
through 2009 to his brother on two occasions, knowing that the
inside information would be used to purchase stocks or  stock
options .  “In both instances Stephen Scalia passed the inside
information to his college friend, Brett Cohen, who then tipped
off his uncle, David Myers, who actually purchased securities
using the inside information for a gross profit of over
$600,000,” Duffy said in the statement.  A restitution order against Stephen Scalia is scheduled to
be made final on Oct. 3.  The case is U.S. v. Scalia, 11-cr-522, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  California  (San Diego).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Callahan in San Diego at 
 callahan@san.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  