-- 
ExactTarget Said to Hire JPMorgan, Deutsche Bank for Second Attempt at IPO

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-09-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/exacttarget-said-to-hire-jpmorgan-and-deutsche-bank-for-ipo.html
ExactTarget Inc., an e-mail
marketing company that canceled plans for an initial public
offering during the 2009 financial crisis, hired  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  to handle a new attempt, said two
people familiar with the matter.  The Indianapolis-based company will sell shares when market
conditions allow, said one of the people, who declined to be
named because the plans haven’t been announced.  ExactTarget would follow Responsys Inc., another provider
of marketing software, which has gained 3.3 percent since its
April debut, and competitor Eloqua Ltd., which announced IPO
plans last month. The companies are bucking the trend that has
resulted in at least 24 U.S. IPOs getting shelved or scrapped in
the past three months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In May 2009, ExactTarget withdrew its initial filing,
opting to raise $70 million in private capital from investors
including Battery Ventures and Scale Venture Partners.
ExactTarget said in July that revenue jumped 41 percent last
year to $134 million. The company has more than 1,000 employees,
compared with 283 at the end of 2007.  In its 2007 initial filing, ExactTarget said Thomas Weisel
Partners LLC and William Blair & Co. were hired to manage the
IPO. The company was about half its current size three years
ago, with sales of $32.8 million in the first six months of
2008, a separate filing showed.  Investor Concern  Companies have withdrawn or postponed IPOs seeking to raise
more than $3.4 billion amid investors’ concerns about the
economy, the European debt crisis and  Standard & Poor’s 
downgrade of the U.S. credit rating. Twenty-three have been
pulled since the Aug. 5 downgrade, which roiled markets.  Responsys, based in San Bruno,  California , reported 2010
sales of $94.1 million. As of yesterday’s market close, the
company traded at 6.2 times last year’s sales. By that measure,
ExactTarget would be valued at $831 million.  Eloqua, based in Vienna, Virginia, recorded revenue of
$50.8 million last year. The company plans to raise $100 million
in an initial share sale also led by JPMorgan and Deutsche Bank.  Mitch Frazier, a spokesman for ExactTarget, declined to
comment, as did  Tasha Pelio , a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan, and Scott Helfman, a spokesman for Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 