-- 
Expert-Networker Jiau Should Get 10-Year Term for Passing Tips, U.S. Says

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-12T19:15:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/expert-networker-jiau-should-get-10-year-term-for-passing-tips-u-s-says.html
Winifred Jiau, the former Primary
Global Research LLC consultant convicted of passing inside tips
on publicly traded companies, should be sentenced to prison for
as long as 10 years, U.S. prosecutors said.  Jiau, 43, of Fremont, California, was convicted by a jury
in June of one count each of conspiracy and securities fraud in
federal court in Manhattan. She was found guilty of passing
earnings and other information about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell
Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to hedge fund managers Noah Freeman, a
former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager, and Samir Barai, founder of New York-based Barai Capital Management LP.  “It is now clear that Jiau used guile and manipulation to
steal sensitive corporate information from multiple sources in
an effort to line her own pocket,” assistant U.S. attorneys Avi
Weitzman and  David Leibowitz  said in a court filing today.  Jiau attempted to stymie the federal probe after her arrest
by lying to court officials, telling a friend in a March e-mail
that she was hoping that no one she had conspired with would
“sell me out,” prosecutors said in the filing. They also said
she made efforts to secure bail and flee the country after she
was arrested in December.  Tips from Jiau allowed fund managers to make from
$2.5 million to $7 million in illegal profit, prosecutors said.  Sentencing Range  Primary Global, based in  Mountain View , California, links
investors with industry experts at public companies. The so-
called expert-networking firm is at the center of a nationwide
probe of  insider trading  at  hedge funds , technology companies,
banks and consulting firms.  Jiau is scheduled to be sentenced by U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff on Sept. 21. Federal sentencing guidelines, which the
judge isn’t required to follow, call for a prison term of eight
years and one month to 10 years and one month, according to
prosecutors.  Joanna Hendon, Jiau’s lawyer, didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message seeking comment on prosecutors’ sentencing
request to the judge.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  