-- 
French Nuclear-Plant Blast Kills One; No Leak Detected

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-09-12T15:23:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/explosion-at-french-nuclear-waste-plant-leaves-one-dead-4-hurt.html
An explosion and fire at a French
nuclear-waste processing site killed one person and injured
four, heightening concern of safety risks from atomic energy
following the disaster in  Japan  six months ago.  There was no chemical or radioactive discharge from the
Centraco plant in the town of Codolet in southern  France ,
Carole Trivi, a spokeswoman for the owner Electricite de France
SA, said by telephone. EDF slumped as much as 7.8 percent in
Paris trading.  Europe ’s biggest power producer, which also operates
France’s 58 nuclear reactors, treats low-level radioactive waste
at the plant about 130 kilometers (81 miles) northwest of
Marseille, the country’s second-biggest city. France depends on
nuclear reactors for about three-quarters of its power needs,
the most of any country.  This is the first time a “drama on this scale” occurred at
the site, according to  Socodei , the EDF unit that operates the
facility. Socodei said the explosion was in a building housing a
furnace where metallic waste is treated by fusion. An
investigation will be carried out. “There is no risk of leaks
to come,” EDF said in a later statement.  The accident happened as the nation’s nuclear regulator is
carrying out safety checks at the country’s reactors and some of
  its treatment sites to determine whether they can withstand  floods, earthquakes and loss of power and cooling. The
inspections were triggered by Japan’s atomic disaster in March.  EON, RWE Drop  EDF pared its loss and traded at 18.72 euros, down 3.6
percent, at 5:14 p.m. local time. EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s
two largest nuclear operators, fell in  Frankfurt  after reports
of the French blast. EON declined as much as 6.5 percent and
traded at 12.94 euros, down 3.3 percent, in Frankfurt. RWE
retreated 3.6 percent to 21.87 euros.  A fire in a furnace at the Centraco site was brought under
control at 1:06 p.m. local time, leaving one of the injured in
critical condition from burns, according statements from Socodei
and the  atomic regulator .  The furnace, which began operations in 1999, melts and
compresses low-level radioactive metals and was one of two at
the site, according to the utility. Both have been stopped.  “There was no radioactive leakage outside the
installation,” the French nuclear safety authority, known as
ASN, said in a statement on its website.  Safety Reports Due  EDF, along with France’s Areva SA, the world’s biggest
supplier of nuclear fuel and services, and the research
organization CEA have until Sept. 15 to submit reports on the
ability of their sites to deal with disasters.  “Today’s incident in France is another example that we
move into action,” rather than just discussing safety, Yukiya Amano, the head of the  International Atomic Energy Agency , told
a news conference in Vienna. Environment Minister Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet said she would visit the site.  Nearby populations weren’t advised to take any specific
measures such as staying indoors or being evacuated, Trivi said.
The person who died in the explosion was an employee of Socodei.  A separate treatment site nearby, the Marcoule facility,
has installations that treat higher-level spent fuel from EDF’s
reactors, according to the ASN annual report.  Socodei is aiming to expand operations because of the need
to treat increasing amounts of waste from reactors, according to
the report. The ASN watchdog called in the head of Centraco in
November 2008 to discuss safety “gaps” and progress was noted
at the end of last year in improving the situation, the document
states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  