-- 
EZchip Rises on Bet Marvell May Bid to Outflank Broadcom: Israel Overnight

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-09-12T22:28:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/ezchip-surges-on-marvell-acquisition-bets-israel-overnight.html
EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH)  rose the
most in a month in New York on speculation  Marvell Technology
Group Ltd. (MRVL)  will buy the Israeli maker of network processors to
stave off growing competition.  EZchip gained 11 percent to $32.65 on the Nasdaq Stock
Market, the most since Aug. 3, as Benchmark Co. and MKM Partners
LP said  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) ’s plan to acquire semiconductor company
 NetLogic Microsystems Inc. (NETL)  for $3.7 billion will compel Marvell
to buy EZchip. Shares of EZchip rose the most yesterday among
members of the Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index of the largest
Israeli companies traded in New York.  The gauge fell to the lowest level in a month as
speculation  Greece  is moving closer to default added to concern
that the global economy is sinking into recession. Alon Holdings
Blue Square Israel Ltd., the nation’s second-largest food
retailer, led declines. Israel’s benchmark TA-25 Index fell
yesterday below 1,000 for the first time in almost two years and
the cost to insure government debt against default soared on
concern about regional political upheaval.  “EZchip is in a position of strength right now,” Gary Mobley, an analyst at Benchmark in  New York , said by telephone.
“Marvell needs to step up its acquisitions to keep the pace.
EZchip would be very complementary to their portfolio.”  Ehud Helft, who handles EZchip’s investor relations in New
York, and Daniel Yoo, a corporate communications manager at
Marvell, declined to comment on a possible acquisition.  Higher Value  Broadcom, the Irvine, California-based maker of
communications chips, agreed to buy  Santa Clara , California-
based NetLogic to gain processors used in data networks, the
companies said yesterday in a statement.  NetLogic shareholders will get $50 a share, or 57 percent
more than the semiconductor’s closing price on Sept. 9. The
company’s shares surged 51 percent yesterday, the most on
record.  The deal “increases the value that investors should be
putting on EZchip given what Broadcom was willing to pay for
NetLogic,” Jeffrey Schreiner, an analyst at Capstone
Investments in  San Diego ,  California , said by telephone.  EZchip, whose products allow for quicker data delivery,
reported adjusted second-quarter earnings of 33 cents per share,
beating the 28-cent average estimate of eight analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Net income more than doubled to $4.77 million from
$2.25 million a year earlier, the Yokneam, Israel-based company
said in a statement on Aug. 3.  Marvell, based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , had $863 million in
cash and near cash items at the end of the second quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The most logical deal in this space would be Marvell for
EZchip,”  Daniel Berenbaum , an analyst at MKM Partners in
Stamford,  Connecticut , wrote in an e-mailed report.  Biggest Premium  EZchip shares rose to a record high of $37.74 in New York
on July 7, and have retreated 13 percent since then.  The Tel Aviv shares gained 3.6 percent yesterday to 111
shekels, or the equivalent of $29.79. The premium of the New
York stock climbed to $2.86, the biggest difference among the
largest Israeli companies traded in the U.S.  Israel, whose population of 7.7 million is similar to
Switzerland’s, has 57 companies traded on the  Nasdaq , the most
of any country outside the U.S. after  China . It is also home to
the largest number of startup companies per capita in the world.  Israeli technology companies raised $569 million in capital
during the second quarter of 2011, the most in two years and up
from $343 million in the same period last year, according to the
Israel Venture Capital-KPMG Quarterly Survey released July 13.  Export Data  The nation’s stock market was upgraded to developed market
status by MSCI Inc. in May 2010, the same month the 63-year-old
country was accepted to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation.  Israeli exports dropped in August to their lowest this
year, widening the trade deficit, amid signs of slowing global
growth. Exports fell 5.7 percent to $3.58 billion, the
Jerusalem-based Central Bureau of Statistics said on its website
yesterday.  The shekel fell to the weakest level in a year, dropping
0.5 percent to 3.7290 per  U.S. dollar  as of 4:30 p.m. in New
York yesterday.  Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas said he will
ask the  United Nations  to accept the state of  Palestine  as a
member at the annual General Assembly meeting that starts Sept.
20. Netanyahu has been lobbying allies to oppose the measure for
months and the Obama administration says it will exercise its
veto if the measure reaches the UN Security Council.  Egyptian Relations  Egypt’s ruling military council declared on Sept. 10 a
state of emergency to restore order after protesters attacked
the Israeli embassy in Cairo. Netanyahu told his nation the
previous day that the incident had damaged “the fabric of
peace” between the two countries while declaring his commitment
to the 32-year alliance.  Israel’s TA-25 benchmark stock index fell 2.5 percent to
999.46. Five-year credit-default swaps rose nine basis points,
or 0.09 percentage point, to 180, the highest since June 2009,
according to New York prices from CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index fell for a third day,
dropping 1.1 percent to 80.21.  Given Gains  Alon Holdings retreated 9.8 percent to $5.05. The Tel Aviv
shares lost 8.4 percent to 18.46 shekels, or the equivalent of
$4.95.  Given Imaging Ltd. (GIVN) , the Israeli maker of pill-sized cameras
for digestive diagnosis, climbed 5.3 percent to $15.01. The Tel
Aviv shares added 0.6 percent to 52.01 shekels, or the
equivalent of $13.96.  The company was raised to “buy” from “hold” at Maxim
Group after shares fell to the lowest level in a year in New
York last week.  Partner Communications Co., Israel’s second-largest mobile-
phone operator, declined to the lowest level in almost five
years, dropping 2.9 percent to $9.64. The Tel Aviv shares
retreated 1.9 percent to 35.30 shekels, or the equivalent of
$9.47.  Partner is planning to fire 150 employees as an efficiency
measure, financial newspaper TheMarker reported on its website
yesterday, without saying where it got the information.  “As part of its standard business practice, Partner
considers from time to time its costs structure, including that
of manpower,” the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Ceragon Networks Ltd. (CRNT) , the Tel Aviv-based maker of
wireless-networking systems, climbed for the first day in three,
rising 1 percent to $9.71 in New York. The Israeli-traded shares
dropped 1.2 percent to 35.17 shekels, or the equivalent of
$9.44.  The company received two follow-on orders from a major
operator in  Brazil , valued at “several millions of dollars,”
according to a statement distributed by PRNewswire yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  