-- 
Fast-Paced Cartoons Like SpongeBob May Harm Children’s Brains

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-09-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/fast-paced-cartoons-such-as-spongebob-may-harm-kids-brains-study-finds.html
Children who watch fast-paced
cartoons like  SpongeBob SquarePants  perform worse when asked to
follow rules or delay gratification than kids who spend time
drawing or watching slower, educational programs, a study found.  The 4-year-old children who watched nine minutes of
SpongeBob on Viacom Inc.’s Nickelodeon channel performed only
half as well on tasks as those who spent the same amount of time
drawing or watching Caillou, a Public Broadcasting Service
educational program about a 4-year-old boy, said  Angeline
Lillard , lead author of today’s study in the journal  Pediatrics .  Programs that are fast paced and feature unrealistic events
may over-stimulate the brain, making it harder to trigger
executive function, a process used to complete tasks, Lillard
said. Children may also mimic the characters after the show ends
and not concentrate. Parents need to consider how frenetic a
show is, as well as its content, when deciding what their young
children watch, she said.  “We don’t know how long this effect lasts,” Lillard, a
professor of psychology at the  University of Virginia  in
Charlottesville, said in telephone interview. “It may be that
children recover quickly. Certainly, immediately after, there
was a strong impact particularly on the most challenging
tasks.”  Animated Sponge  In the study, 60 4-year-olds were split into three groups.
One group watched a truncated episode of “a very popular
fantastical cartoon about an animated sponge that lives under
the sea.” Another saw a truncated episode of a “realistic PBS
cartoon about a typical U.S. preschool-aged boy.” The third was
given paper, crayons and markers and spent the time drawing.  The children were then asked to perform four tasks such as
playing games that involved following rules and an activity in
which they had to delay having a snack. The researchers measured
how well each child performed.  Those who watched SpongeBob performed the worst on all
tasks, while overall those in the drawing group and the  Caillou 
group performed about the same, the findings show.  “These children’s brains were actually tired from all of
the stimulation, and then the expectation that they focus on
something became a challenge for them,” said Dimitri
Christakis, director of the Center for Child Health, Behavior
and Development at  Seattle Children’s Research Institute , in a
telephone interview.  Appropriate Television  “Not all TV is the same,” he said. “It’s not about no
television, it’s really about appropriate amounts and
appropriate types of television.”  A typical preschooler spends about 4.5 hours a day watching
television or DVDs, said Christakis, who wrote an accompanying
commentary in the journal. Children today start watching TV at 4
months of age compared with 4 years of age in 1970, he said.  More studies and larger trials are needed to replicate
these findings and determine the long-term effects on children,
he said.  Ari Brown , a pediatrician in Austin,  Texas , and a member of
the  American Academy  of Pediatrics Council on Communications and
Media, said there are questions about the long-term effects on
children based on the amount of television they watch, the types
of shows and how the shows are structured.  “Technology is great, but we also want to explore how does
that impact our kids,” said Brown, who wasn’t an author of
today’s study, in a Sept. 9 telephone interview. “If in fact
there is some impact from chilling out, watching a fun show on
immediate executive function afterward, my message to parents
would be get your kids to finish their homework first before
they sit down and watch TV.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  