-- 
Fed’s Fisher Says Low Interest Rate Pledge May Deter Lending

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 
2011-09-12T16:26:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/fed-s-fisher-says-commitment-to-low-interest-rates-may-inhibit-borrowing.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said the central bank’s pledge to hold
interest rates low until mid-2013 may be sending the wrong
signal to consumers.  “It might actually be an incentive to not borrow,” Fisher
said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television, “because
you know rates are going to be low out to mid-2013.”  The Dallas Fed chief joined presidents  Charles Plosser  of
Philadelphia and Narayana Kocherlakota of  Minneapolis  last month
in posing the most opposition in almost 19 years to a Federal
Open Market Committee decision. They dissented from the FOMC’s
Aug. 9 decision to hold interest rates near zero at least until
mid-2013, preferring instead to maintain a commitment to do so
for an unspecified “extended period.”  “We want to make sure we’re not pushing on a string,”
Fisher said. “Money is basically free, gas tanks are full.  Who
steps on the gas pedal? Who engages the transmission?”  Fisher is scheduled to speak today at the annual meeting of
the National Association for Business Economics.  Businesses and consumers are “deluged with uncertainty,”
Fisher said. The Fed doesn’t address that by holding down the
cost of borrowing, he said. “I don’t think that’s why people
are not borrowing money right now.”  Fed officials “discussed the range of policy tools”
available to boost growth and are “prepared to employ these
tools as appropriate,” the FOMC said in its Aug. 9 statement. A
few Fed policy makers in August favored more aggressive action
to stimulate the economy and lower unemployment, according to
minutes of their meeting.  Bigger Move  Those members, who weren’t identified, “felt that recent
economic developments justified a more substantial move” beyond
the pledge adopted at the last FOMC meeting to hold its key
 interest rate  at a record low until mid-2013.  Fisher declined to say what policies he may support at the
Fed’s next meeting on Sept. 20-21. According to economists at
Wells Fargo & Co., T. Rowe Price Associates Inc., Barclay’s
Capital Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the Fed may decide to
replace short-term Treasury securities in its $1.65 trillion
portfolio with long-term bonds in a bid to lower rates on
everything from mortgages to  car loans . The plan is sometimes
called “Operation Twist” because it would twist the yield
curve.  Fisher said in a separate radio interview that this plan
may not be effective with yields already low.  ‘Negative Yields’  “We still have negative yields,” Fisher said, referring
to the yield of  Treasury securities  adjusted for inflation.
“Part of that is out of our control. There’s a rush to quality.
Those that have fear elsewhere in the marketplace are flooding
into our Treasuries despite what Standard and Poor’s said about
us.”  “The question is how effective would an Operation Twist
be,” Fisher said. “It needs to be looked at as it’s one of the
possible options. How far can you drive rates down? What else is
working in the marketplace? What effect will it have?  These are
the kind of discussions we need to be having.”  Fisher said he agreed with Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
that “inflation is not the issue presently.” Fisher said that
“We don’t have dramatic amounts of inflation. I think we’re
trending more toward 2 percent.”  Index Rose  The personal consumption expenditures price index rose 2.8
percent from a year earlier in July, compared with 1.2 percent
in November when the Fed launched its $600 billion round of
asset purchases known as QE2 for the second round of
quantitative easing. Excluding food and energy, the index rose
1.6 percent from a year earlier, compared with 1 percent in
November. The Fed aims for annual inflation of 1.7 percent to 2
percent.  The Department of Labor said earlier this month that the
 U.S. economy  created no jobs in August. The  unemployment rate 
remained unchanged at 9.1 percent, the 29th consecutive month of
unemployment near 9 percent or higher.  Fisher, 62, has been president of the Dallas Fed since
2005. As a voting member of the FOMC in 2008, he dissented five
times in favor of tighter policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Dallas at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  