-- 
Fed’s Fisher Sees ‘High Bar’ for Supporting Additional Monetary Stimulus

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-09-12T21:45:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/fed-s-fisher-sees-high-bar-for-supporting-yield-curve-jujitsu-.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said he probably won’t support further
monetary easing by the Fed, arguing that steps that would boost
the recovery are the responsibility of fiscal authorities.  “If I believe further accommodation or some jujitsu with
the yield curve will do the trick and ignite sustainable
aggregate demand, I will support it,” Fisher said today in a
speech in Dallas. “But the bar for such action remains very
high for me until the fiscal authorities do their job, just as
we have done ours. And if they do, further monetary
accommodation may not even be necessary.”  Fisher was one of three presidents to dissent from the
Fed’s Aug. 9 statement that it expected to hold interest rates
near-zero through mid-2013. At its next meeting on Sept. 20-21,
the Fed may decide to replace short-term  Treasury securities  in
its $1.65 trillion portfolio with long-term bonds in a bid to
lower rates on everything from mortgages to  car loans , according
to economists at Wells Fargo & Co., T. Rowe Price Associates
Inc., Barclay’s Capital Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The plan is sometimes called “Operation Twist” because
it would twist the yield curve. Fisher described the move as an
attempt to “drive down already historically low nominal
intermediate and longer-term rates.” The yield on the 2-year
Treasury note was 0.2 percent as of 5:25 p.m. in  New York , and
the yield on the 10-year Treasury note was 1.95 percent, near
the record low close of 1.91 percent reached on Sept. 9.  Voiced Skepticism  Fisher expressed skepticism about a proposal from Chicago
Fed President  Charles Evans  that the central bank be willing to
tolerate medium-term inflation just below 3 percent in order to
help bring down the unemployment rate.  “Talk about threatening the independence of the Federal
Reserve,” Fisher told reporters after his speech, saying he
could not imagine trying to explain the policy to unemployed
workers.  There is a “difference between theory and practice,”
Fisher said. “I understand the theory. I think we also have to
consider how severe the backlash would be from those who don’t
want their income or meager savings eroded by price increases.”  Uncertainties about  tax policy , regulatory policy and the
European debt crisis were inhibiting business hiring, he said.  Gas Tanks  “We have filled the gas tanks of the economy with
affordable liquidity,” Fisher said at the annual meeting of the
National Association for Business Economics. “What is needed
now is for employers to confidently step on the pedal and engage
the transmission that will use that gas to move the great job-
creating machine of America forward.”  The Department of Labor said this month that the  U.S.
economy  created no jobs in August. The  unemployment rate 
remained unchanged at 9.1 percent, the 29th consecutive month of
unemployment near 9 percent or higher.  Fisher described the report as “discouraging” and said
that “when people are frightened, they understandably look for
a ‘fix.’ Yet, my colleagues and I are professionally beholden to
beware of short-term fixes that might contradict, or place in
jeopardy, the long-term duty and credibility of the central
bank,” Fisher told the attendees at the annual conference for
economists who work for companies.  “I am wary of adopting any policy that might have the
unintended consequence of becoming a veterinary fix rather than
a more salutary repairing of the ability to propagate jobs,” he
said.  Delay Borrowing  In his speech Fisher echoed an interview today on Bloomberg
Television in which he said the central bank’s pledge at its
last meeting to keep  interest rates  near zero until mid-2013 may
“actually be an incentive to not borrow.” In his speech, he
said that for some businesses, a guarantee of low interest rates
for two years would be “an incentive to further delay borrowing
for expansion.”  The Dallas Fed chief joined presidents  Charles Plosser  of
Philadelphia and Narayana Kocherlakota of  Minneapolis  last month
in posing the most opposition in almost 19 years to a Federal
Open Market Committee decision. The three dissenters preferred
instead to maintain a commitment to hold rates low for an
unspecified “extended period.”  Fed officials “discussed the range of policy tools”
available to boost growth and are “prepared to employ these
tools as appropriate,” the FOMC said in its Aug. 9 statement. A
few Fed policy makers in August favored more aggressive action
to stimulate the economy and lower unemployment, according to
minutes of their meeting.  “We must be ever-mindful that the central bank cannot
carry the load alone,” Fisher said.  Fisher, 62, has been president of the  Dallas  Fed since
2005. As a voting member of the FOMC in 2008, he dissented five
times in favor of tighter policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Dallas at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  