-- 
Everton May Be Forced to Sell Marouane Fellaini, Mail Reports: Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-09-15T10:33:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/fernando-torres-faces-more-time-on-chelsea-bench-sun-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Fellaini Exit?  Everton may have to sell midfielder Marouane Fellaini after
this season should the 23-year-old not be willing to extend his
contract,  the Daily Mail said .  The Belgian’s deal expires in 2013, and his club is worried
about losing him cheaply after  Steven Pienaar  moved to Tottenham
for 3 million pounds ($4.7 million) in January, the newspaper
said.  Everton manager David Moyes said he wants to rebuild the
team around Fellaini, the Mail added.  Blatter’s Denial  FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  denied a report that said he
had an agreement to step down and allow UEFA head  Michel Platini 
to take over soccer’s governing body,  the Daily Express said.   ESPN reported that the 75-year-old would quit halfway into
his new four-year term and allow the European body’s president
to take over the role. Blatter said the story “is simply
ridiculous,” the Express said.  ‘Poisoned Chalice’  Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp  said he hasn’t been
approached to replace England coach  Fabio Capello , a job that
Redknapp said is a “poisoned chalice,” the Daily Mirror
reported.  The coach said it would be difficult for an Englishman to
turn down the post, the newspaper reported. Redknapp said he
hasn’t lobbied for the job, according to the Mirror.  Jol’s Secret  Fulham manager  Martin Jol  said he deliberately didn’t tell
new striker Bryan Ruiz that he couldn’t play in European matches
after signing with the London club,  the Mail said.   Ruiz won’t be able to play tonight against his former club,
Twente, which accepted 10.6 million pounds for the player, the
newspaper said. He’s ineligible to play in the Europa League
because he was in the team for Twente’s losing Champions League
qualifier, the Mail added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  