-- 
FirstRand Nigeria Entry Stalls Amid Takeover ‘Dislocation’

-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-09-12T16:31:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/firstrand-nigeria-entry-stalls-amid-dislocation-in-takeovers.html
FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) ,  Africa ’s second-
largest bank, hasn’t met its two-year goal of expanding into
Nigeria, unwilling to meet sellers’ price demands amid a push by
financial regulators for industry consolidation.  “There’s a dislocation still in that market between the
‘bid-offer’ spreads,” FirstRand Chief Executive Officer Sizwe Nxasana said in an interview in Johannesburg on Sept. 9. “You
have banks that were declared by the central bank as distressed
and broken. But look at their equity markets and they still
trade. It’s a market that is completely inefficient.”  FirstRand, which announced in May 2009 that it intended to
expand into Africa’s biggest oil producer, ended talks to buy
control of Lagos-based  Sterling Bank (STERLNBA)  Plc in June. Since then,
Nxasana said he has continued looking for targets, returning
last week from the country, where FirstRand has set-up a
representative office.  Nigeria’s 10 largest banks trade at 10.7 times reported
earnings on average, higher than the 7.59 times for the 46-
member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index. The
economy of Nigeria, which has Africa’s largest population with
150 million people, is set to surpass  South Africa  as the
continent’s biggest by 2025, according to Morgan Stanley.  Buying Opportunity  Nigeria’s banking industry is trading at its lowest in
three years, according to Adesoji Solanke, a Lagos-based analyst
with  Renaissance Capital . The average price-to-book ratio for
the country’s banks fell to 0.97 from 1.31 a year earlier.  “The longer it takes them to get in, the more expensive
banks will price themselves for any deal,” said Solanke. “The
quality of the book value is getting increasingly better than it
was a month ago or a year ago.”  A 0.55 price-to-book ratio for the Bloomberg Europe Banks
and Financial Services Index reflects the sovereign debt burden
of those lenders, he said.  Central Bank of  Nigeria  Governor Lamido Sanusi in 2009
fired the CEOs of eight of the nation’s lenders, pumped the
equivalent of $4 billion into ailing institutions and set up an
entity to buy bad debts. Sanusi, 50, said he wants the number of
banks reduced to 19 from 24 with companies run as public
institutions and not privately held family businesses. In 2005,
the country had 89 banks.  FirstRand fell 2.2 percent to 20.05 rand in Johannesburg,
cutting the company’s market value to 113 billion rand ($15.2
billion). The six-member FTSE/JSE Africa Banks Index declined
1.3 percent.  Nigerian Acquisitions  Nigerian banking acquisitions have been focused on local
lenders, according to Solanke, with Sterling Bank last month
agreeing to buy Equitorial Trust Bank Plc, one of eight lenders
bailed out in 2009 by the central bank.  Access Bank Plc (ACCESS)  plans to
acquire Intercontinental Bank Plc while Togo-based  Ecobank
Transnational Inc. (ETI)  has proposed purchasing  Oceanic Bank
International Plc. (OCEANIC)   Standard Bank Group Ltd., the continent’s largest lender,
in September 2007 combined its Nigerian branch with Lagos-based
IBTC Chartered Bank Plc, the nation’s top investment bank and
money manager, and bought control of the combined company for
2.8 billion rand ($380 million).  It has since opened 150 new branches to increase its
outlets to 180. The lender plans to add 20 branches a year and
increase its share of the consumer banking market to 10 percent
from 2 percent, Standard Bank Deputy CEO Ben Kruger said in an
interview Sept. 9.  Hitting ROE Target  Standard Bank ’s investment in Nigeria produced an 8 percent
return on equity before adjustments in the first half, down from
13 percent a year earlier, as the company paid for computer
systems and staff and invested more capital to fund a 20 percent
increase in loans. Over the next 18 months, Standard Bank
expects returns to increase, Kruger, 49, said.  The company returned an overall 14.5 percent on equity in
the first half, up from 13.5 percent in the first six months of
last year. Standard’s shares have dropped 12 percent this year,
the worst performer on the FTSE/JSE Africa Banks Index, while
FirstRand has added 2.8 percent.  FirstRand won’t sacrifice returns, said Nxasana, who is 52.  “We’re particularly focused on not diluting our ROE so we
understand there are different ways of creating value,” Nxasana
said. “We’ll be looking for acquisitions, but we’re unlikely to
write a big check in any acquisition that we make.”  Consolidation  FirstRand’s return on equity improved to 19 percent in the
six months through December from 18 percent in fiscal 2010,
within its target of 18 percent to 22 percent. ROE may remain
within target when the bank releases results for the year to
June 30 tomorrow as “nothing has really changed since the half
year,” said Sam Moss, FirstRand’s head of  investor relations .  Consolidation of Nigeria’s banking industry means
regulators would prefer foreign companies to invest in existing
lenders, making it difficult to start a new operation, Nxasana
said.  FirstRand has also been looking for acquisitions in  Ghana ,
where the central bank is trying to drive mergers and
acquisitions to limit the number of lenders rather than grant
new banking licenses, Nxasana said.  “You need patience and our strategy also requires
patience,” he said. “We’re not looking at moving our earnings
needle from these opportunities that we are looking at.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  