-- 
Ford Will ‘Probably’ Need to Extend Current Contract With UAW, Fields Says

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-09-12T20:45:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/ford-uaw-will-probably-need-to-extend-contract-beyond-sept-14.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  and the  United Auto
Workers  will “most probably” need to extend their labor
contract beyond its Sept. 14 expiration date,  Mark Fields , the
company’s president of the Americas, said in an interview.  Talks between the automaker and union are “going
smoothly,” said Fields, who is in  Germany  for the Frankfurt
auto show. “We’re meeting regularly but I would expect that if
we don’t get a contract, we’ll agree on an extension.”  The UAW’s contracts with  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Fiat SpA-
controlled Chrysler Group LLC also expire at 11:59 p.m. on Sept.
14. Ford is the only one of the three where a strike can occur.
UAW members at GM and Chrysler, as part of U.S.-backed
bankruptcies in 2009, agreed to a no-strike pledge and to take
unresolved issues to binding arbitration.  Ford, based in Dearborn,  Michigan , did not receive a U.S.
bailout. Union members there rejected a strike ban.  There is a “very, very, very slim” chance of a strike at
Ford, said Kristin Dziczek, a labor analyst at the Center for
Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor , Michigan.  “The deadline is useful to promote action, but it’s not
like all hell will break loose if they go past it,” Dziczek
said in an interview. “Most definitely, Ford will be looking at
an extension, but that is not in any way a sign that the wheels
are falling off.”  GM’s Progress  GM, which is furthest along in negotiations with the UAW is
likely to set the pattern for wages and benefits for the U.S.
automakers, Dziczek said.  “Ford will craft their own version of the pattern once the
other two are done,” she said. The UAW’s current contracts at
GM, Ford and Chrysler were reached in 2007.  Workers at Ford have filed an “equality of sacrifice”
grievance against the automaker for restoring raises, tuition
assistance and 401(k) matches to salaried workers last year. An
arbitration hearing on that dispute is scheduled for Sept. 15,
the day after the company’s contract with the UAW expires.  “The grievance is a mechanism to give Ford workers more
money,” Dziczek said. “There are 35,000 signatures on that
grievance and a lot of them have a vote on this contract.”  Ford rose 6 cents to $10.11 at 4:15 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have slid 40 percent this
year.  Fields’s remarks go beyond comments made by Chief Financial
Officer  Lewis Booth  on Sept. 9 at a UBS investor conference in
 London .  “Our contract formally expires on Sept. 14, but if those
discussions are still going on, we expect to continue working
and continue the discussions,” Booth said at that time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  