-- 
Forint Weakens a Third Day as Premier Orban Backs Loan Loss Plan

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-09-12T15:47:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/forint-drops-3rd-day-as-hungary-s-otp-suspended-before-loan-plan.html
The forint weakened for a third day
as Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  gave support for a plan
to force lenders to swallow losses on foreign-currency
mortgages. The country’s banks were suspended from trading.  The forint depreciated as much as 1.3 percent and weakened
0.6 percent to 282 per euro and 0.9 percent against the Swiss
franc to 234 by 5 p.m. in Budapest. OTP Bank Nyrt. and FHB Bank
Nyrt. were suspended for the entire session before the start of
trading. The benchmark BUX index, in which OTP has a 28 percent
weighting, fell 2.9 percent, led by a 6.3 percent drop in Mol
Nyrt., the country’s biggest refiner.  Lawmakers of the ruling Fidesz party proposed on Sept. 9 to
make lenders bear the cost of early repayment of foreign-
currency loans at fixed rates as much as 20 percent below
prevailing rates. The plan is feasible, Orban said in a speech
to lawmakers in Budapest today, adding that the proposal
shouldn’t force banks to lend cash to borrowers wanting to take
advantage of early repayments.  Even without the required lending component, modifying
existing contracts to enforce the mortgage plan has the same
“credibility impact,” said Gabor Orban, who helps manage $2.5
billion in central and eastern European debt at Aegon Fund
Management in Budapest. “The economic impact is smaller than if
they had forced lenders to give out forint loans.”  Austria’s Vice Chancellor Michael Spindelegger said today
that Orban’s plan threatens the “existence” of Austrian banks
including  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Raiffeisen Bank International
AG (RBI) , Austria Press Agency reported, citing an interview. “This
is a course of action that we can’t accept.” Spindelegger’s
comments were confirmed by his spokesman Alexander Schallenberg.  Poised  OTP competes mostly with units of international banks,
including Raiffeisen, Erste,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Bayerische
Landesbank , and in the mortgage market with FHB.  Stocks sank around the world, leaving a gauge of global
equities poised for a  bear market , and the euro touched a 10-
year low against the yen amid concern  Greece  is moving closer to
default.  The Hungarian ruling party’s announcement “came in a
markedly bad environment in global markets,” analysts at OTP,
led by Gergely Tardos in Budapest, wrote in a research report
today.  Credit-default swaps used to protect Hungarian government
debt against non-payment for five years surged to 457 basis
points from 443 basis points on Sept. 9, the highest since April
2009, according to data from provider CMA.  “We continue to see downside risks to the forint near-
term,”  Elisabeth Andreew , a Copenhagen-based strategist at
Nordea Bank AB, wrote in a research report after Orban’s speech.
“Bad news for the banks, but we do not think the measures will
cause a collapse of the banking system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  