-- 
Foster’s Affirms Rejection of SABMiller’s $9.6 Billion Bid as ‘Inadequate’

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-09-12T06:15:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/foster-s-rejects-sabmiller-s-ex-dividend-offer.html
Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL) , Australia’s
biggest brewer, affirmed its opposition to  SABMiller Plc (SAB) ’s
hostile takeover bid after the cash offer was cut to A$9.25
billion ($9.6 billion) on dividends paid.  Investors should reject the “inadequate” offer and are
advised not to take action when SABMiller files its formal
bidder’s statement, Melbourne-based Foster’s said in a letter to
investors filed with the Australian stock exchange today. The
offer is now worth A$4.7675 a share after adjusting for the
13.25 Australian cent dividend to be paid by Foster’s, it said.  Foster’s has opposed the offer since first disclosing an
approach on June 21, instead committing to Chief Executive
Officer  John Pollaers ’ plan to return at least A$500 million to
investors and cut production costs to revive earnings. London-
based SABMiller, the maker of Peroni and Grolsch, announced
plans to take its offer directly to shareholders on Aug. 17.  “Your board will always act in the best interests of
shareholders and will therefore give due consideration to any
bona fide offers it receives,” Chairman David Crawford said in
the letter. “There is significant future value available to
you, as a shareholder, if Foster’s remains an independent
company.”  The offer by the world’s second-largest brewer by volume
was originally worth A$4.90 a share, or A$9.5 billion, prior to
any dividend payments.  Shares Decline  Foster’s shares fell 1.6 percent to A$4.83 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of trading in Sydney.  SABMiller failed on Sept. 8 to get  Australia ’s Takeovers
Panel to intervene in the bid after the body rejected its
application to review statements from Foster’s about earnings
forecasts and debt levels.  Foster’s has forecast revenue in the 12 months ending June
2012 will rise at a “mid single-digit” pace with earnings
before interest and tax increasing faster.  Were the offer to succeed, SABMiller would gain just under
half of the Australian beer market, including brews such as the
namesake lager, Pure Blonde and Fat Yak.  Foster’s has said it’s open to talks on a “sensible” bid
from SABMiller, without being more specific.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Sydney 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  