-- 
France Telecom Said to Near Deal to Acquire Congo China Telecom

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 
2011-09-12T11:44:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/france-telecom-said-to-near-deal-to-buy-congo-china-telecom-in-africa-push.html
France Telecom SA (FTE)  is close to an
agreement to purchase Congo  China  Telecom, the fourth-largest
mobile operator in the Democratic Republic of Congo, according
to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The deal could be announced as early as this week and may
value the company, which is jointly owned by China’s  ZTE Corp. (763) 
and the Congolese government, at about 160 million euros ($218
million) including debt, one of the people said. Both declined
to be identified because the talks are private.  France Telecom, the country’s largest phone company, is
scouring Africa and the Middle East for potential acquisitions,
including in some of the region’s poorest and most unstable
countries, as it aims to offset slowing growth in its domestic
market. In March, the Paris-based company agreed to pay $245
million for a 20 percent stake in Iraqi operator Korek Telecom,
and last year bought 40 percent of  Morocco ’s Meditel for 640
million euros.  France Telecom declined to comment. Spokeswomen for ZTE in
Shenzhen, China and in the U.K. did not immediately return calls
seeking comment.  ZTE currently owns 51 percent of CCT, with the government
holding the rest. The government stake is being sold as part of
a broader effort to divest assets and transform some state-owned
enterprises into limited-liability companies.  While France Telecom has extensive experience in Africa,
where it operates in countries including Cameroon and the Ivory
Coast, Congo may present special challenges. The country of 65
million is still recovering from more than 40 years of
dictatorship and war, and its residents’ annual per-capita
income is about $300,  according  to the CIA World Factbook.  Africa Expansion  France Telecom’s emerging-market assets are taking on a
larger share of revenue as economic growth in those countries
outpaces that of  Europe . Sales in the  Middle East  and Africa,
excluding Egypt and the Ivory Coast, climbed 7.9 percent in the
second quarter. Domestic revenue from France, which contributed
to half of the group’s total, fell 2.3 percent to 5.7 billion
euros.  The company set a target last year to double its overall
emerging-market revenue by 2015, from about 3.3 billion euros in
2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jacqueline Simmons  at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  