-- 
Friedman Ignores Trotsky, Blasts Both Parties for U.S. Decline

-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 
2011-09-12T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/friedman-ignores-trotsky-blasts-both-parties-for-u-s-decline.html
“A country that steps up to
the challenges that it faces and masters them is the
country that used to be us.”  Not very encouraging words, but the authors of “ That
Used To Be Us ,” Thomas L. Friedman and Michael Mandelbaum,
insist they’re optimists.  “We want to maintain American greatness,” they write.
“We’re Fourth of July guys.” Hence the U-turn of their
subtitle: “How America Fell Behind in the World It Invented
and How We Can Come Back.”  They’re convincing on the fell-behind part -- so
convincing that I found their chipper, can-do tone grating.
They’re like a doctor who says you have stage-four cancer
and then adds brightly, “Think of it as an opportunity!”  Friedman  and Mandelbaum identify the four major
challenges the U.S. faces as globalization, the information
revolution, astronomical deficits and the lethal
combination of runaway energy consumption and climate
change. The sensible measures they offer in response
include more  government spending  on education, stricter
energy standards, higher taxes (especially on fossil fuels)
and cuts to Medicare and Social Security benefits.  Good luck with that.  Friedman is a Pulitzer Prize-winning  New York  Times
columnist and the author of five books; Mandelbaum teaches
foreign policy at  Johns Hopkins  and is the author or co-
author of 12 books. They aren’t starry-eyed fools -- they
know a lot and would sincerely like to make a difference.  Nice Guys  They point to the decline of the decent values
Americans used to have. But being nice guys who don’t want
to offend anybody, they meekly add, “Because it happened in
an incremental way, we didn’t notice it -- until the
subprime crisis in 2008 showed just how far we had drifted
from some of the bedrock values that used to be us.”  Really -- they didn’t notice? I noticed it 20 or 30
years ago, around the time of the buyout boom and the junk-
bond scandal and the elevation of investor profit into the
one and only value that was driving many American
businesses. When Gordon Gekko declared, “Greed is good” in
1987’s “Wall Street,” it didn’t come out of nowhere.  Shock Therapy  Extending their inoffensiveness, the authors
conscientiously point fingers at both national parties.
Democratic spending on entitlements, they write, has been
irresponsible; the Republican intransigence over even the
teeniest tax hike is delusional. During last year’s effort
to fashion an energy bill, “The Democrats were cowardly,
and the Republicans were crazy.”  But they’re not just complainers -- they have a
solution. They call it shock therapy, and they hold off
unveiling it, dramatically, until the end of the book. It
turns out to be depressingly feeble: a third-party
presidential candidacy (no names mentioned) that would
convince voters to “join hands in the radical center.”  Moving to the center is radical, according to them,
because it requires “far more substantial changes in the
current ways of doing things” than either party could
muster the courage to propose. Good luck with that, too.  Thinking of Trotsky  Of course, if you’re a centrist -- as Friedman and
Mandelbaum proudly are -- it may be easy to convince
yourself that “the truth is probably somewhere in the
middle.” At this point my own thoughts went to Leon Trotsky
(not an author I would expect them to cite), who dismissed
such a conviction as the cheap conclusion of lazy minds.  I freely confess to being one of those partisans whom
the authors accuse of paralyzing our political system. I
might be willing to move to that radical center if I
thought it existed, but it sounds to me more like a tool to
help extremist politicians convince gullible voters that
they’re moderates.  And no, I don’t have a better solution than the one
the authors offer -- except to keep fighting for what you
believe in, the only solution that has ever worked in
politics.  “That Used to Be Us” is published by Farrar, Straus
and Giroux (380 pages, $28). To buy this book in  North
America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 