-- 
GAIL India to Borrow $300 Million Abroad in Bid to Access Cheaper Credit

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-09-12T05:52:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/gail-india-to-borrow-300-million-abroad-in-bid-to-access-cheaper-credit.html
GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL) , the nation’s
biggest gas distributor, plans to borrow $300 million overseas
next month to take advantage of lower interest rates outside the
country for funding pipeline projects.  The company has tied up 12.5 billion rupees ($267 million)
in a rupee-denominated loan from  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB)  at 10.03 percent
and is delaying drawing the money as it seeks cheaper funds
overseas, P.K. Jain, director of finance, said by telephone from
 New Delhi . The utility may sell bonds overseas in November,
although it is yet to decide the size, he said.  “It is still much cheaper to borrow overseas and we’re
looking at all options outside India,” Jain said. “We may have
to take domestic debt as well, but we’re trying to see where we
can get the best  interest rates .”  GAIL plans to borrow about 46 percent of the 82.7 billion
rupees it proposes to spend in the year ending March to build
natural gas pipelines and expand capacity of chemical plants in
Asia’s second fastest-growing major economy. Higher inflation
may force India’s central bank to raise interest rates by a
quarter-percentage point to 8.25 percent on Sept. 16, a
Bloomberg News survey of 10 economists showed, adding to 11
increases since March last year.  GAIL has about 25 billion rupees of outstanding debt
currently, Jain said. The utility borrowed $150 million from
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. this year and will draw on a
$78 million loan from the U.S. Export-Import Bank to buy
compressors for gas pipelines, Jain said.  The company is seeking loans from export-import banks in
 Japan  and Germany to pay for equipment purchases for the
expansion of a chemical plant in the northern Indian state of
 Uttar Pradesh , Jain said. Exim Bank loans have interest rates of
about 1.5 percent, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  