-- 
Galimov, Lone Ice-Hockey Survivor of Russian Plane Crash, Dies in Hospital

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-09-12T13:45:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/galimov-lone-ice-hockey-survivor-of-russian-plane-crash-dies-in-hospital.html
Alexander Galimov, a forward on
 Russia ’s Lokomotiv Yaroslavl hockey team, died today from
injuries suffered five days ago in a plane crash that killed the
squad, coaches and crew.  Galimov died in the hospital, an official at the Vishnevsky
surgery clinic in Moscow said today by phone. The athlete
suffered burns over 90 percent of his body, the hospital said.
The Interfax news service reported Galimov’s death earlier.  The death of the 26-year-old  Kontinental Hockey League 
player raises the toll from the accident to 44. The chartered
Yakovlev-42 plane was carrying eight crew and 37 members of the
Lokomotiv team when it crashed during takeoff. President  Dmitry Medvedev  will meet today with league management, Russia’s sports
officials and Lokomotiv’s fans to discuss the future of the
three-time Russian champion.  Crew member Alexander Sizov, the only survivor, remains in
the hospital and there is no danger to his life, according to
Rossiya 24. Sizov will be questioned by investigators when
doctors say his condition permits, Interfax reported today,
citing  Vladimir Markin , the spokesman for the Russia’s
Investigative Committee.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  and as many as 100,000 people
attended a Sept. 10 memorial service for the hockey players at
Arena 2000, the team’s home stadium. Funerals took place over
the weekend in Yaroslavl, Omsk, Chelyabinsk, Minsk, Kiev and
 Prague , according to Rossiya 24 TV channel.  League Starts  The KHL season was to start the day of the crash, but games
were postponed. Matches are starting tonight, with Salavat
Yulaev taking on Atlant, and six other games, according to the
league website.  The Sept. 7 crash about 300 kilometers (185 miles) outside
of Moscow killed former National Hockey League coaches and
players including coach Brad McCrimmon, and players Pavol Demitra and Ruslan Salei.  The Soviet-era plane had been in service for more than 30
years and was operated by a charter provider. Yak Service, the
operator of the flight that crashed, was put under review by
European Union regulators in 2009 for possible inclusion on a
blacklist after Russia restricted it at home. The European
Commission didn’t ban the operator after Russia lifted its own
measures.  The number of air accidents in Russia in the first seven
months increased 60 percent to 24 and the number of fatalities
rose nine-fold to 72, Federal Statistics Service data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  