-- 
Galleon’s Rajaratnam May Face Stiffer Jail Sentence After Questioning Law

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-09-13T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/galleon-s-rajaratnam-says-he-s-not-clear-on-insider-rules-u-s-says.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, convicted of directing the biggest-ever hedge fund
insider trading scheme, may face a stiffer sentence after
telling a court official he still wasn’t “clear” that what he
did was wrong.  Rajaratnam, 54, convicted in May of trading on illegal
stock tips, later told a court official that he wasn’t “clear”
on “the line between permissible ‘detective work’ and
impermissible insider trading,” prosecutors said.  After his conviction, Rajaratnam was interviewed by a court
probation officer who is writing a memorandum proposing a
sentence to the judge. Such interviews are standard in criminal
cases. In a legal brief on Sept. 9, prosecutors excerpted some
of his comments to the probation officer while telling U.S.
District Judge Richard Holwell in  New York  that they show
Rajaratnam “remains defiant.”  Prosecutors told the judge that Rajaratnam’s comments,
which are consistent with his unsuccessful trial defense,
“reflect a serious disregard for the law” and warrant a severe
sentence. Rajaratnam “cannot seriously claim confusion” about
the significance of a tip about, for instance, a pending
acquisition, prosecutors said.  No Obligation  “The legal line was clear,” prosecutors wrote, adding
that Rajaratnam was under no legal obligation to say anything
about his acts to the probation officer.  Rajaratnam, 54, was convicted of 14 counts of conspiracy
and securities fraud for engaging in a years-long insider-
trading scheme. Prosecutors are seeking a sentence of 19 1/2 to
24 1/2 years at his sentencing on Sept. 27. Rajaratnam is
seeking leniency, saying that such a sentence is “grotesquely
severe.”  “In my own mind, the line between permissible ‘detective
work’ and impermissible  insider trading  was not always clear,
especially with regard to companies broadly covered by the news
media as to which there was a wealth of publicly available
information, including frequent leaks, rumors and speculation
about corporate transactions and other important developments,”
Rajaratnam told the probation officer, according to prosecutors.  Rajaratnam didn’t testify at the trial and hasn’t spoken
publicly about his conviction or the charges against him.  He also told the probation official that no one was harmed
by his trades, prosecutors said, excerpting that remark as well.  ‘Made Whole’  “I am not aware of anyone who lost money as a result of my
actions presented to the jury,” he told the probation official,
according to the government. “The trades at issue were made in
liquid stocks with market makers. They were not made with
individual investors who would have refrained from trading but
for my purchases and sales.  “All of Galleon’s investors were made whole after Galleon
closed down,” he said.  Prosecutors said the comment shows that Rajaratnam has
“absolutely no appreciation” that he “cheated the system.”  Rajaratnam argued in his own brief on Sept. 9 that the
government’s requested sentence is more than the average
sentence imposed for kidnapping and hostage-taking, sexual
abuse, robbery, arson and child pornography.  Kathryn Holmes Johnson, a spokeswoman for Rajaratnam,
declined to comment on the prosecutor’s legal brief.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 