-- 
Geithner to Meet European Officials in Poland on Sept. 16

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-09-12T23:26:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/geithner-to-meet-european-officials-in-poland-on-sept-16-1-.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  will travel to  Poland  on Sept. 16 to participate in a
meeting of European government finance officials trying to
contain the region’s debt crisis.  Geithner will attend the session of  Europe ’s Economic and
Financial Affairs Council, or Ecofin, and the Eurofi Financial
Forum in Wroclaw, Poland, the Treasury said in a statement today.
Geithner will discuss with his counterparts efforts to
contribute to the global economic recovery and cooperation on
financial regulatory changes, according to the statement.  The trip will be Geithner’s second to Europe in a week. He
returned to Washington on Sept. 10 from a Group of Seven finance
ministers and central bankers meeting in Marseille,  France , that
was dominated by discussions about the euro-region crisis.  It’s “unusual” that Geithner will attend the sessions,
said  Phillip Swagel , who was an assistant Treasury secretary for
economic policy in the George W. Bush administration, in an
interview today. “I can’t think of when a Treasury secretary
has gone to the Ecofin,” he said. Swagel is a professor of
international economic policy at the University of  Maryland  in
College Park.  Geithner told Bloomberg Television in a Sept. 9 interview
in Marseille that European nations will “have to demonstrate to
the world they have enough political will.”  The cost of crisis will be higher for European nations “if
they were to sit here and do nothing,” Geithner said. “This is
a good, sensible financial calculation for them that the overall
costs for their economy in the long term will be less if they
act more forcefully now.”  The G-7 finance chiefs vowed to support banks and try to
bolster slowing economic growth.  “We will take all necessary actions to ensure the
resilience of banking systems and financial markets,” the
officials said in a Sept. 9 statement. “Concerns over the pace
and future of the recovery underscore the need for a concerted
effort at a global level in support of strong, sustainable and
balanced growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  