-- 
Germany May Surrender in Fight to Save Greece

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-09-12T12:43:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/germany-readies-surrender-in-fight-to-save-greece.html
Germany  may be getting ready to
give up on Greece, as measures in the credit markets signal
growing concern about the smaller nation’s ability to repay
investors.  Yields on Greek two-year notes rose above 60 percent today
for the first time. Five-year credit-default swaps to insure the 
country’s bonds and to speculate on  government securities  soared
937 basis points to an all-time high of 4,437, according to CMA.
The contracts are the highest in the world and more than three
times the 1,244 basis points for Portuguese debt.  After almost two years of fighting to contain the region’s
debt crisis and providing the biggest share of three European
bailouts, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is laying the
groundwork for what markets say is almost a sure thing: a Greek
default.  “It feels like Germany is preparing itself for a debt
default,”  Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London , said in an interview.
“Fatigue is setting in. Germany could be a first mover or other
countries could be preparing, too.”  Officials in Merkel’s government are debating how to shore
up German banks in the event that Greece fails to meet the
budget-cutting terms of its aid package and is unable to get a
bailout-loan payment, three coalition officials said on Sept. 9.
The move capped a week of escalating German threats that  Greece 
won’t get the money unless it meets fiscal targets, and as
investors raised bets on a default.  Geithner Weighs In  Protecting their banks and a hardening of rescue terms risk
isolating Germany and unnerving global policy makers already
fretting that the region’s political tussles are roiling markets
and threatening growth. Underscoring the tone of weekend talks
of Group of Seven finance chiefs, U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  told Bloomberg Television that European
authorities must “demonstrate they have enough political will”
to end the crisis.  Lars Feld, a member of the German government’s council of
economic advisers, said today that a “disorderly
restructuring” of Greece may take place if the Greek government
decides to get out of the  euro zone .  “I don’t think this could be easily done,” Feld said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television. “There are many, many
technical difficulties and the contagion then would be much,
much higher and much stronger than anything we observe” under
an orderly restructuring, he said.  Slump in Euro  European bank credit risk has surged to an all-time high,
according to the Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default
swaps on 25 banks and insurers, and the euro fell last week by
the most against the dollar in a year. Investors have doubts
about whether Greece will implement austerity moves fast enough
to get a sixth payment from last year’s 110 billion-euro ($150
billion) bailout.  The euro was down 0.6 percent today against the dollar at
$1.3601, the weakest level since February.  The Greek government’s top priority is “to save the
country from bankruptcy,” Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said
in a Sept. 10 speech in the northern Greek city of Thessaloniki.
“We will remain in the euro” and this “means difficult
decisions,” he said.  More evidence of rifts at the heart of policy making was
exposed with the unexpected Sept. 9 announcement that Juergen Stark, a German, will quit the European Central Bank’s executive
board over his opposition to the ECB’s purchases of bonds from
debt-laden countries.  French Banks  “Stark’s departure could be seen by financial markets as
another indication of growing disenchantment in Germany toward
the euro,” said  Julian Callow , chief European economist at
 Barclays Capital  in London. “This could complicate Germany’s
involvement in additional bailout programs.”  At the G-7 gathering in the French port of Marseille, ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn said they knew nothing
about the talk in Germany of the so-called Plan B to protect
banks. French officials said they weren’t working on a parallel
proposal and Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  said his
country’s banks have the capital to withstand a Greek default.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,
France’s largest banks by market value, may have their credit
ratings cut by Moody’s Investors Service as soon as this week
because of their Greek holdings, two people with knowledge of
the matter said on Sept. 10.  Bond Losses  Moody’s said in June that the three banks were placed on
review to examine “the potential for inconsistency between the
impact of a possible Greek default or restructuring,” and the
companies’ current rating levels.  Among banks outside Greece, German lenders were the biggest
holders of Greek  government bonds , with a total of $14.1 billion
at the end of March, according to  consolidated banking
statistics  from the Bank for International Settlements. French
banks followed with $13.4 billion. The German figure includes
loans given by government-owned Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
as part of the first Greek rescue program.  The aim of the contingency plan is to shield German banks
from losses from a possible Greek default, which has a more-than
90 percent chance of happening within five years, prices for
insurance against default show.  The plan involves measures to help banks and insurers that
face a possible 50 percent loss on their Greek bonds if the next
portion of Greece’s bailout is withheld, said the three
officials, who declined to be identified because the
deliberations are being held in private. The successor to the
government’s bank-rescue fund introduced in 2008 might be
enrolled to help recapitalize the banks, one of the people said.  German Lawmakers  The discussions aren’t intended to shove Athens out of the
euro, said Klaus-Peter Flosbach, budget-policy spokesman of
Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union and the  Christian Social
Union  in parliament.  “It would be of central importance to keep the possibility
of contagion in the euro zone as low as possible,” Flosbach
said in an e-mail. “In any case, we’re not looking into pushing
Greece out of the euro zone.”  Fredrik Erixon, head of the European Centre for
International Political Economy in Brussels, said Germany’s
concern is broader than Greece, which is in its third year of a
deepening recession, and centers on how its banks and economy
would cope if the debt crisis spreads.  “Germany is preparing for the worst, which is that the
crisis in the euro zone is going to be much bigger for
everyone,” Erixon said.  Opposing Aid  German lawmakers, who are scheduled to vote Sept. 29 on a
second Greek aid package and revamped rescue fund, stepped up
their criticism of Greece after an international mission to
Athens suspended its report on the country’s progress two weeks
ago.  “There can be no doubt” that Greece must fulfill the
terms of aid to receive it, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in Marseille. “Everybody must stand by the
agreements.”  With a loss in her home state of Mecklenburg-Western
Pomerania, Merkel’s coalition has been defeated or lost votes in
all six state elections this year as voters reject putting more
taxpayer money on the line for bailouts. Merkel has also
antagonized markets and fellow leaders by initially holding out
against aid for Greece and demanding investors pay a share of
the assistance.  German Polls  Fifty-three percent of Germans oppose further aid for
Greece and wouldn’t save the country from default unless it
fulfills terms of the rescue agreement, Bild am Sonntag
reported, citing an Emnid poll of 503 respondents conducted
Sept. 8.  French Budget Minister Valerie Pecresse said her nation
would halt its loans to Greece if the country didn’t keep to its
bail-out pledges, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing a
television interview on French channel M6.  After European markets closed last week, Greek Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos dismissed “rumors” of a default
and said his nation is committed to “full implementation” of
the terms of the July accord for a second aid package.  Budget measures including a special levy on real estate
will be enough to meet targets set for 2011, Venizelos told
reporters in Thessaloniki yesterday.  The market fallout served as the backdrop for the G-7 talks
at which Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said Europe’s
woes were the “number one” topic and that Greece may even need
to quit the euro if it can’t consolidate its budget. Geithner
said authorities “need to do whatever they can do to calm these
pressures” and that rich European nations need to provide
“unequivocal” support for their weak neighbors.  G-7 officials vowed to “take all necessary actions to
ensure the resilience of banking systems and financial
markets,” and to make a “concerted effort” to support a
flagging world economy. They detailed no new policies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Marseille at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  