-- 
Giants Lose as Rookie Dodges Block, Intercepts Manning, Scores Touchdown

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-09-12T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/giants-lose-as-redskins-rookie-linebacker-dodges-block-scores-touchdown.html
New York Giants quarterback Eli Manning was trying to throw a screen pass to wide receiver
Hakeem Nicks on the right side of the line. Instead, Manning
watched a  Washington  Redskins linebacker carry it into the end
zone.  As Manning set to pass, rookie Ryan Kerrigan danced around
a cut block meant to put him on the ground and stretched his 6-
foot-4 frame high into the air to tip Manning’s pass. The first-
round draft pick from  Purdue University  caught it and raced nine
yards for the touchdown to break a third-quarter tie.  “He did a good job moving to avoid the cut and tip it,”
Manning said in an interview. “Good play by him.”  The score was the lowest point in a game filled with low
points for the Giants, who converted one of 10 third downs, had
a field goal blocked and committed eight penalties to lose the
season opener 28-14 yesterday at FedEx Field in Landover,
 Maryland .  Manning completed 18 of 32 passes for 315 yards. He started
the game 2-for-8 in the first quarter; four of the incompletions
were thrown short or over his receivers’ heads. A fifth resulted
in an intentional grounding call.  The slow start for the Giants’ offense put added pressure
on a defense that’s been decimated by injuries.  New York has lost six players, including middle linebacker
Jonathan Goff, cornerback Terrell Thomas and defensive tackle
Marvin Austin, the team’s second-round draft choice.  Pro Bowl defensive end Osi Umenyiora is out after
undergoing arthroscopic knee surgery, the Giants’ other Pro Bowl
defensive end, Justin Tuck, is still recovering from a neck
injury, and cornerback Prince Amukamara, the team’s top draft
choice, is out with a foot injury.  While the defense put pressure on Redskins quarterback Rex Grossman early in the game, it couldn’t get off the field when
Washington started moving the ball.  “We got to do our part,” Manning said. “We have to keep
the ball longer and help out our defense and sustain drives.”  The Giants and Redskins were tied 14-14 at the half, until
Kerrigan’s interception on the Giants’ first possession of the
second half.  “I never scored a touchdown in college,” Kerrigan said.
“So I was pretty excited to get my first touchdown in my first
NFL game.”  Early in the fourth quarter, the Giants had another chance
to score after moving the ball to the Redskins’ 20 yard line,
setting up Lawrence Tynes’s 38-yard field goal attempt. Instead,
a breakdown on the left side of the line allowed linebacker
Brian Orakpo to block the kick and linebacker London Fletcher to
recover the ball.  Ten plays and 70 yards later, Grossman threw a 4-yard pass
to receiver Jabar Gaffney for the Redskins’ final score.  “We start the second half with an interception and that’s
a tough way to start,” Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  said during a
news conference. “Then to be in position to kick a field goal
and have it blocked. That was disappointing and very well may
have changed the complexion of the game.”  The Giants’ locker room was quiet after the loss. Players
mumbled about having to play better and about being prepared
next Monday night to play the  St. Louis Rams  at home.  Tuck, who was injured in a preseason game against the  New
York Jets  on Aug. 29, said he expects to play next week, and
expects the team to perform better.  “We’re resilient,” Tuck said. “We’ll bounce back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  