-- 
Global Market Turmoil Hurts East Europe, Development Bank Says

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-09-12T13:37:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/global-market-turmoil-hurts-east-europe-development-bank-says.html
Global financial-market volatility,
“anaemic” growth in developed economies and the deepening euro
crisis are “materially impacting” eastern Europe and Central
Asia, the  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development  said.  Vulnerability across the EBRD’s 29 recipient countries
remains “elevated,” while the economic policy response has
been limited, Piroska Nagy and Alexander Pivovarsky, economists
at the development bank in London, wrote in a blog post on its
website today. Equity markets in the region have declined 15
percent or more since the start of August, with Ukrainian stocks
losing a quarter of their value, and risk premiums on bonds and
currencies are also coming under pressure, they wrote.  “Output growth has already been weakened by recent
developments and it will likely stall unless a further slowdown
in growth in Europe and the U.S. can be avoided and markets
recover reasonably quickly,” Nagy and Pivovarsky wrote. “As
the region is closely integrated with the EU and domestic demand
and credit growth are still relatively weak, the recovery is
very fragile.”  Eastern  Europe ’s export-led recovery from its worst slump
since the end of communism suffered in the second quarter as the
U.S. struggled to avoid a new recession and the debt crisis in
the euro area spread. The  S&P 500  erased its gains from the
previous four sessions Sept. 9 amid speculation  Germany  is
preparing for a Greek default.  Bailouts  The former communist countries of Europe and Central Asia
were hit hardest by the global credit crunch that followed the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 as investment
and export demand dried up and governments were forced to adopt
fiscal austerity measures. The region needed bailouts of more
than $100 billion from creditors such as the  International
Monetary Fund  and the European Union.  As a result of that aid and a pledge by western European
banks to remain in eastern Europe and roll over funding to their
subsidiaries, the region may be better equipped to withstand
shocks to its economies and banks, according to Nagy and
Pivovarsky.  Eastern Europe’s banking industry is majority-owned by
western European banks such as  Unicredit SpA (UCG) ,  Erste Group Bank
AG (EBS)  and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA. Those lenders have been
recapitalized, helping mitigate risks from the high proportion
of non-performing loans and regulations on foreign-currency
lending, the economists said. In addition, current-account
deficits have narrowed and liquidity and funding facilities have
improved, they said.  Remaining vulnerabilities include limited scope for fiscal
stimulus and bailouts, the high stock of bad loans and
financial-industry fragility, Nagy and Pivovarsky said.  “The future of the European banking groups is a new
significant source of uncertainty,” they said. “Potential
financial shock to the region would be much more significant
than in 2008 if the international policy community is unable to
prevent significant deleveraging or, in extreme, failure of a
significant international bank.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  