-- 
Great Portland, BP Pensions Purchase London Offices for 120 Million Pounds

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d   a n d   A n d r e w   B l a c k m a n
-- 
2011-09-12T07:39:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/great-portland-bp-pensions-purchase-london-offices-for-120-million-pounds.html
Great Portland Estates Plc (GPOR)  and BP
Pension Fund agreed to buy the headquarters of Independent
Television News in central London for 133 million pounds ($210
million).  The Great Ropemaker Partnership joint venture will acquire
200 and 214 Gray’s Inn Road from Beacon Capital Partners LLC, a
Boston-based real-estate investment company, according to a
statement today. The properties generate a combined annual rent
of 8.9 million pounds.  Improved rail links to the area between the  West End  and
the City of London financial district from the Crossrail project
and the  Thameslink  railway upgrade will help lift rents and
property values in coming years, said Ben Chambers, Great
Portland’s investment director.  Separately, Great Portland agreed to buy a 2.3-acre (0.9
hectare) site near Oxford Street from  Royal Mail  Group Ltd. for
120 million pounds. The site is near the Tottenham Court Road
subway station, which is being upgraded for the future  Crossrail 
service linking Heathrow Airport to east London.  Royal Mail will lease back the site until June 2013, then
vacate it to allow its redevelopment into a mix of shops,
apartments and offices. The state-owned postal service company
will receive a share of future profits from the development
under the terms of the sale, according to a statement.  Great Portland specializes in developing and trading
buildings in central London, where a shortage of new  office
space  is driving up rents and adding to property values. Great
Portland in July reported that its real estate appreciated by
3.8 percent the fiscal first quarter on demand from
international investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  