-- 
Greek Banks’ ECB Funds Reliance Falls in July to EU96.3 Bln

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-09-12T16:40:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/greek-banks-ecb-funds-reliance-falls-in-july-to-eu96-3-bln-1-.html
Greek banks’ reliance on European
Central Bank financing fell for the first time in two months in
July, the central bank said.  Greek bank reliance on European Central Bank liquidity fell
to 96.3 billion euros ($131 billion) in July from 103 billion
euros in the previous month, according to a statement posted on
the Athens-based central bank’s website today.  “As far as ECB funding goes it is a given that it will
stay at a high level,” Panagiotis Kladis, an analyst at
National P&K Securities said by telephone from  Athens  today.
“It may fluctuate around the 100 billion-euro level, depending
on the month, government and private sector deposits, but what
we can say with certainty is we don’t expect a big improvement
in the next months.”  The ECB has spent more than a year trying to work out how
to lower banks’ dependency on emergency funding.  Greece  has committed to additional measures to secure a
second bailout worth 159 billion euros after the European Union-
led aid package of 110 billion euros agreed in May 2010 failed
to convince investors the country could avoid a default.
Greece’s economy is under its fifth quarterly review for the
release of a sixth tranche funds under the first bailout.  The balance of deposits held by businesses and households
in Greek banks fell to 187.2 billion euros in July from 188.2
billion euros in June, according to a separate statement from
the  Bank of Greece (TELL)  today. That was milder than the 1.9 percent
drop from May to June and the 2.5 percent drop from April to
May.  ‘Clear Return’  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said last month
there was a “clear return” of deposits to Greek banks for the
first time in 2.5 years. Venizelos said in July that from the
25th of the month an inflow of deposits had started.  “There is a clear stabilization, this is something
positive,” Kladis said. “Households deposits, which are the
biggest piece, are stable.” Household deposits were almost
unchanged at 156.3 billion euros, the central bank data showed.  Deposits by homes and businesses have declined 21.4 billion
euros since December 2010, or 10 percent, as the economy shrinks
under the weight of government-imposed austerity measures agreed
in exchange for international financing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  