-- 
Greece Has 98% Chance of Default on Euro-Region Sovereign Woes

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-09-13T13:06:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/greece-s-risk-of-default-increases-to-98-as-european-debt-crisis-deepens.html
Greece  has a 98 percent chance of
defaulting on its debt in the next five years as Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  fails to reassure investors his country can
survive the euro-region crisis.  “Everyone’s pricing in a pretty near-term default and I
think it’ll be a hard event,” said Peter Tchir, founder of
hedge fund TF Market Advisors in  New York . “Clearly this
austerity plan is not working.”  It costs a record $5.8 million upfront and $100,000
annually to insure $10 million of Greece’s debt for five years
using credit-default swaps, up from $5.5 million in advance on
Sept. 9, according to CMA. Greek bonds plunged, sending the 10-
year yield to 25 percent for the first time.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she won’t let Greece
go into “uncontrolled insolvency” as politicians try to limit
contagion to other euro members. Papandreou’s pledge to adhere
to deficit targets that are conditions of the European Union and
International Monetary Fund’s bailout were undermined by data
showing his country’s budget gap widened 22 percent in the first
eight months of the year.  The default probability for Greece is based on a standard
pricing model that assumes investors would recover 40 percent of
the bonds’ face value if the nation fails to meet its
obligations. CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated credit-
swaps market, lowered its recovery assumption to 38 percent late
yesterday, which would give Greece a 95 percent chance of
default.  Economy to Shrink  Greece’s government now expects the economy to shrink more
than 5 percent this year, more than the 3.8 percent forecast by
the European Commission, as austerity measures deepen a three-
year recession. Papandreou approved a plan to help repair the
 budget deficit  at the weekend amid swelling resistance from
Greeks.  Greece’s 10-year bond yield rose 111 basis points, or 1.11
percentage points, to 24.65 percent as of 1:55 p.m. in London,
after earlier climbing to a euro-era record of 25 percent. The
two-year note yield increased 662 basis points to 76.17 percent,
after rising to an all-time high.  Greek stocks fell, with the ASE Index tumbling as much as
1.2 percent to the lowest since 1995 and down more than a third
from July 22.  The risk of contagion beyond Greece weakened the euro and
boosted benchmark German bunds. The common currency fell toward
its weakest level since 2001 against its Japanese counterpart,
declining 0.6 percent to 104.99 yen.  Sovereign Record  An index measuring the cost of default protection on 15
European governments to a record. European bank debt risk also
jumped to the highest ever amid speculation French lenders will
be downgraded because of their holdings of Greek bonds.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps climbed one basis points to 354, an all-time high
based on closing prices. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index
linked to the senior debt of 25 banks and insurers increased two
basis points to 316, while a gauge of subordinated debt risk was
up seven basis points at 557, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “The contagion impact of a default will be severe, because
next in the firing line will be  Italy ,  Spain  and it will take in
the whole of the European banking sector too,”  Suki Mann , a
strategist at Societe Generale SA in London, wrote in a note
yesterday. “This trio are already under intense pressure, but
it will get much worse.”  Euro-Region Nations  Credit-default swaps on Portugal, Italy and France rose to
records, according to CMA. Portugal jumped nine basis points to
1,224, Italy rose four basis points to 510 and France was up 7.5
basis points at 196.5.  Germany ’s government is debating how to support its
nation’s banks should Greece fail to meet the budget-cutting
terms of its rescue package, three coalition officials said
Sept. 9. Merkel said in an  interview  with Berlin-based Inforadio
that avoiding an “uncontrolled insolvency” was her “top
priority” and that the region’s most indebted country is taking
the right steps to getting its next bailout payment.  Credit-default swaps on BNP Paribas SA, Societe Generale SA
and  Credit Agricole  SA,  France ’s largest banks, surged to all-
time highs on bets they’ll have their ratings cut by Moody’s
Investors Service this week.  French Banks  Swaps on SocGen were 14 basis points higher at 448.5,
Credit Agricole increased 9.5 to 331.5 and BNP Paribas rose 16
basis points to 321, according to CMA.  Moody’s placed the three banks’ ratings on review in June
to examine “the potential for inconsistency between the impact
of a possible Greek default or restructuring and current rating
levels,” the rating company said at the time. Downgrades are
likely as the review period concludes, said people with
knowledge of the matter, who declined to be identified because
the information is confidential.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13.6 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. An increase signals
declining perceptions of  credit quality .  Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  