-- 
Ligi Raps Estonia’s Central Bank Picks for ECB Council Job

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-09-12T10:56:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/ligi-raps-estonia-s-central-bank-picks-for-ecb-council-job.html
Estonian Finance Minister Juergen Ligi, who didn’t make the shortlist for the country’s new
representative to the  European Central Bank ’s governing council,
said the central bank’s selection criteria is flawed.  The job requires strong character over an academic degree,
according to a letter Ligi sent to the bank, which was first
published today by the Tallinn-based  Delfi  news portal, part of
 Ekspress Grupp AS. (EEG1T)  Finance Ministry spokeswoman Katrin Reimann
confirmed the contents of the published letter in an e-mail.  “A clear word on the right subject is a bigger deed for
the central bank, while analysis, expertise, is only a
prerequisite that is accomplished in positions that are two,
three or four steps lower down,” Ligi wrote. “Oriental
expertise, to be honest, is even lower.”  The central bank board on Sept. 6 shortlisted Ardo Hansson,
the  World Bank ’s chief economist for China, and Andres Sutt, an
adviser at the  International Monetary Fund , to succeed Governor
 Andres Lipstok  when he steps down next June. Hansson has a Ph.D.
degree in economics from Harvard. Sutt has the equivalent of a
master’s degree in economics from Estonia’s  Tartu University .  Ligi, named  Europe ’s finance minister of the year in
January by The Banker magazine, also said an academic degree
doesn’t equal character and competency, which are critical for
the job.  Frontrunners  The 52-year-old minister was considered one of the two
frontrunners, according to economists including Raul Eamets, a
professor of economics at Tartu University. Still, his political
career and position as the deputy chairman of the ruling Reform
Party were viewed as a risk by analysts. Estonia’s next central
bank governor is expected to be chosen Oct. 11. The country
joined the euro-sharing bloc on Jan. 1.  “If someone behind that table, which often is shared by
ministers and central banks, should bring up the subject of
 China , he would only get friendly feedback the first time: the
new one, let him learn,” Ligi wrote. “No-one wastes a
Frankfurt ticket on Chinese expertise, it is available as a
sub-topic in economic research reports.”  Estonia was rebuked by China after President Toomas Ilves
and Defense Minister Mart Laar held meetings with the visiting
Dalai Lama last month. The Chinese Embassy said the meetings
were a serious violation of the basic principles of
international relations, public broadcaster Eesti
Rahvusringhaeaeling reported on Aug. 16, citing a statement from
the embassy.  Agriculture Minister Helir-Valdor Seeder earlier this month
had his visit to China canceled over the incident.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz in Budapest at  