-- 
Lilly, Novo Diabetes Drugs’ Possible Cancer Tie Scrutinized

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-09-13T12:56:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/lilly-novo-diabetes-drugs-drew-renewed-scrutiny-on-possible-cancer-links.html
Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)  and  Eli
Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Byetta medicine and Novo Nordisk A/S’s Victoza
face scrutiny after some researchers warned that prolonged use
of the insulin-raising treatments may make diabetics more
vulnerable to cancers.  A debate on the potential dangers of GLP-1 therapies, the
class of drugs to which Byetta and Victoza belong, will be a
highlight of the  European Association for the Study of Diabetes
conference  in Lisbon this week. A review of a database of side
effects showed patients taking Byetta and a Merck & Co. drug had
a sixfold increased chance of pancreatitis, which in turn raises
the risk of tumors, researchers led by Robert Elashoff of the
 University of California  at  Los Angeles  said this year.  The manufacturers say the treatments are safe and there’s
no evidence of increased cancer risk. Sales of GLP-1 analogues,
which mimic a hormone called GLP-1 to stimulate natural insulin
production in diabetics, are increasing as doctors seek
alternatives to older drugs for a  disease  that affects 366
million people worldwide, according to a new estimate today from
the International Diabetes Federation.  “It’s a very tricky story,” Viktor Joergens, executive
director of the EASD, said in a telephone interview. “You
probably need decades and incredible numbers of people to study
things like that. It will be a very interesting debate
particularly because these drugs are now widely prescribed.”  Regulators already have taken note of possible links
between the new classes of diabetes drugs and pancreatitis and
thyroid tumors. Still, the renewed debate may prompt authorities
to seek additional safety data before approving new GLP-1 drugs,
Ele Ferrannini of the  University of Pisa School of Medicine  said
in a telephone interview.  ‘Serious’ Side Effects  Most people suffering from diabetes have the Type 2 form of
the disease linked to older age, excess weight and physical
inactivity. The condition is caused by a lack of insulin needed
to convert blood sugar into energy.  Elashoff and other researchers, including  Peter Butler  of
UCLA, said in  their study  in the journal Gastroenterology in
July that the GLP-1 drug class “could have serious unintended
and unpredicted side effects.”  Their analysis of the  U.S. Food and Drug Administration ’s
database of reported adverse events from 2004 to 2009 found that
pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer were more common among
patients who took exenatide and sitagliptin, a Merck drug sold
as Januvia, as compared with other therapies to treat  Type 2
diabetes .  Company Reaction  The study didn’t look specifically at Novo’s Victoza, which
is also known as liraglutide. Januvia belongs to another new
class of diabetes drugs, called dipeptidyl peptidase-4
inhibitors.  Several researchers and drugmakers including Novo Nordisk
criticized the analysis, saying the FDA’s voluntary side-effect
reporting system can’t be used to calculate the incidence of
side effects. Lilly, Amylin, Novo Nordisk and Merck say their
products haven’t been shown to cause cancer.  “To date the available data do not demonstrate that
exenatide increases the overall risk of cancer in humans,”
Lilly and San Diego-based Amylin said in e-mailed statements.  Victoza has a “very benign side effect profile in real-
life use” in terms of both pancreatitis and cancer risk, Novo
Chief Science Officer Mads Krogsgaard Thomsen said in a
telephone interview.  Letter of Complaint  “The more evidence we gather, the more we are seeing a
level of pancreatitis that is well within the expected range for
people who have Type 2 diabetes,” he said. Separate studies to
assess liraglutide’s potential cancer risks also “are very
reassuring,” he said. Thomsen wrote a  letter  to
Gastroenterology Editor-in-Chief Anil Rustgi to complain about
the Elashoff study.  A potential cancer link hasn’t been proved for sitagliptin
either, according to  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck.  “Based on our careful review of the totality of safety
data available to us, the data do not demonstrate a causal
relationship between Januvia and pancreatitis or pancreatic or
thyroid cancers,” Merck spokeswoman Pamela Eisele said in an e-
mailed statement. “We remain confident in the safety and
efficacy profile of Januvia.”  Butler says further study is needed of GLP-1 therapies. The
drugs may act on the so-called exocrine pancreas, promoting
unnecessary proliferation of pancreatic duct cells that may then
partially obstruct the passage of digestive enzymes, a cause of
local pancreatic inflammation, he said. Pancreatitis is a risk
factor for pancreatic cancer.  ‘Time Bomb’  “There are now several animal studies as well as clinical
reports from humans that taken together raise concern that there
may well be serious unexpected side effects of the GLP-1 class
of drugs on the pancreas,” Butler wrote in e-mailed comments.  Edwin Gale, a diabetes researcher at the  University of
Bristol  in  England , said he would be “very reluctant” to use
GLP-1 therapies “until the potential problem has been taken
seriously.”  “If Butler is right, and the GLP-1 therapies as a class
produce subclinical pancreatitis, and if that predisposes to
cancer, we’re sitting on a time bomb,” he said in an interview.
“We need answers, not reassurance.”  It’s hard to predict what impact the controversy will have
on GLP-1 sales, said Ferrannini, of the University of Pisa.
“It’s a battle fought through the media,” he said. “It will
depend on how much noise those in favor and those against
make.”  ‘Insufficient’ Data  The data contained in the Elashoff and Butler study is
“absolutely insufficient” to establish a link, he said.  Sales of Victoza, a daily shot, more than quadrupled in the
second quarter to 1.25 billion kroner ($230 million). Bagsvaerd,
Denmark-based Novo Nordisk may garner annual sales of 15 billion
kroner by 2016, according to Alistair Campbell, a London-based
analyst at Berenberg Bank.  Byetta, now sold as a twice-daily injection, had worldwide
sales of $710.2 million last year, according to a Jan. 27 Eli
Lilly  statement . The Indianapolis-based company sells the drug
outside the U.S. and splits U.S. revenue with Amylin. Byetta is
Amylin’s biggest product.  The concerns also may call into question Amylin’s once-
weekly version of Byetta, known as Bydureon, said  Les Funtleyder , a  money manager  and health-care strategist at Miller
Tabak & Co. in  New York . The FDA rejected Bydureon in October
over heart risk concerns. European regulators approved the drug
this year.  Conference Debate  UCLA’s Butler said he will present new data at the EASD
meeting this week. The researcher will face Michael Nauck, head
of the  Diabeteszentrum Bad Lauterberg  in Harz,  Germany , whose
opinions differ, at the Sept. 16 discussion.  Safety concerns have hurt sales of diabetes drugs in the
past.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Avandia, once the world’s best-
selling treatment for the disease, was withdrawn in  Europe  and
limited in the U.S. last year after a three-year review of its
heart risks. Takeda Pharmaceutical Co.’s Actos was pulled from
the French market in June after a study showed it carried a
slightly increased risk of bladder cancer.  The debate on the safety of GLP-1 therapies is now in the
hands of epidemiologists and more informative prospective
randomized trials are needed, said Ferrannini.  “We are lucky we have this topic to work on,” said
Joergens, the diabetes association’s director. “This is a
collateral effect of the fact that people with diabetes now have
such a long  life expectancy . When you go to the old data, you
don’t see that. People died from diabetes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  