-- 
IMF Must Improve Debt Scrutiny After Missing Greece, Study Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-09-12T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/imf-must-improve-debt-scrutiny-after-missing-greece-study-says.html
The International Monetary Fund 
needs to improve its analysis of whether countries’ debt is
sustainable, after failing to anticipate surges in the public
burden in Greece or Ireland, IMF economists said.  “Modernizing the framework for fiscal policy and public
debt sustainability analysis has become necessary, particularly
in light of the recent crisis and rising sustainability concerns
in some advanced economies,” according to an IMF staff report.
Before the crisis, such analysis “had often turned into a
routine exercise, with mechanical implementation” of a template
and “little discussion” of results, it said.  The report, which was discussed by the IMF board on Aug.
29, comes as  Europe ’s debt crisis threatens to spread to core
euro countries. Rising concern about a Greek default prompted
stock investors to dump shares of banks, and buyers of fixed
income to take refuge in the safest European bonds, while
Italian bond yields surged at an auction today.  A 2007 IMF assessment of  Greece ’s economy forecast public
debt would fall, according to today’s report. Under a shock
scenario, the burden was expected to rise as high as 98 percent
of gross domestic product by 2013. It reached 142 percent last
year, the report said.  The IMF staff makes several recommendations to improve its
analysis, calling for “more stringent” study when debt is
above a certain level.  Baseline Scenario  “Assumptions underlying the baseline scenario,
particularly the primary fiscal balance path, should be
subjected to greater scrutiny, especially for countries where
significant fiscal adjustment is projected,” IMF economists
also wrote.  The report also recommends running stress tests that take
into account country-specific risks, in particular contingent
liabilities from the financial sector.  The IMF board welcomed the report and directors “generally
supported the proposals for giving greater consideration to
several elements such as the realism of baseline assumptions,
the level of public debt as one of the triggers for further in-
depth study, the analysis of fiscal risks, vulnerabilities
associated with the debt profile, and the coverage of fiscal
balance and public debt,” the IMF said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  