-- 
Industrial Production Grows at Slowest Pace Since ’09, Missing Estimates

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-09-12T09:23:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/india-industrial-output-grows-at-slowest-pace-since-09-missing-estimates.html
India ’s industrial production grew
in July at the slowest pace in almost two years as consumer
demand moderated after record interest-rate increases. The rupee
fell to the lowest level in more than a year.  Output at factories, utilities and mines rose 3.3 percent
from a year earlier, following an 8.8 percent gain in June, the
 Central Statistical Office  said in a statement in  New Delhi 
today. The median of 26 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 6.2 percent advance.  Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has to
weigh the risks to expansion posed by  Europe ’s debt crisis and a
faltering U.S. recovery against inflation when he makes his next
policy decision on Sept. 16. Asian central banks from  South
Korea  to  Malaysia  kept borrowing costs unchanged last week as
they assess the global economy.  “It’s going to be a difficult decision this time,” said
Shubhada Rao, chief economist at Mumbai-based Yes Bank Ltd.
“The RBI’s policy is taking shape in terms of moderating
growth, but it will raise rates one more time as inflation is
still way above its comfort zone.”  Rao expects India’s central bank to increase its benchmark
repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 8.25
percent this week.  Rupee Weakens  India’s rupee dropped 1.1 percent to 47.0650 per dollar at
2:30 p.m. in  Mumbai . It earlier touched 47.1175, the weakest
level since July 22, 2010. The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive
Index tumbled 2 percent. The yield on the 7.8 percent bonds due
April 2021 fell 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
8.29 percent.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation probably
accelerated to 9.64 percent in August from 9.22 percent in July,
according to the median of 23 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. The commerce ministry will release the data on Sept. 14.  Inflation is a political issue in India as it erodes
spending power in a nation where the  World Bank  estimates more
than three-quarters of the population live on less than $2 a
day.  “We are balancing between two very difficult problems --
one is inflation, which is persisting at close to 10 percent,
and there is growth which is slowing down,”  Kaushik Basu , the
chief economic adviser in the  finance ministry , told reporters
in New Delhi today. “The RBI will have to balance these out and
take a decision on this.”  ‘Very Difficult’  Basu expects India’s inflation rate to be “close to 10
percent” in August and “remain very difficult” until
December.  In his most recent policy decision on July 26, Subbarao
raised the central bank’s repurchase rate by half a percentage
point to 8 percent and predicted inflation by the end of March
will be 7 percent, a percentage point higher than his previous
guidance. He forecast  India’s economy  to expand about 8 percent
in the year through March from 8.5 percent in the previous year.  Subbarao has boosted the Reserve Bank’s benchmark rate by
325 basis points since mid-March 2010, the fastest round of
increases since the central bank was established in 1935,
Bloomberg data show.  That’s curbing consumer demand. Sales at carmakers
including  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL)  declined in August from a
year earlier, the second monthly fall in a row.  Home Sales  Home sales in Mumbai, India’s financial capital, dropped
the most in at least two years in July, with registrations
declining 31 percent from a year earlier, according to brokerage
Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt.  Manufacturing grew 2.3 percent in July from a year earlier
after a 10.3 percent gain in June, today’s report showed. Mining
output gained 2.8 percent and electricity climbed 13.1 percent.  The deceleration in India’s industrial production “to a
large extent” is because of “the volatile capital goods
segment,” Leif Eskesen, a Singapore-based economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc, said in a note today. Output of capital goods such
as plant and machinery fell 15.2 percent in July from a year
earlier, after gaining 38.2 percent in June.  The  Reserve Bank  is watching for signs of any slowdown in
domestic demand as it seeks to tame “inflation drivers” that
are “very much in play,” Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  said
Aug. 23.  Gokarn said the “question is whether what’s happening
globally is going to impact commodity prices significantly or
not” because ultimately, that is going “to determine how
domestic inflation plays out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal at   kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  