-- 
India’s RBI May Hold Rates on Factory Output Data, Centrum Says

-- B y   H e m a l   S a v a i
-- 
2011-09-12T07:44:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/india-s-rbi-may-hold-rates-on-factory-output-data-centrum-says.html
 Chokkalingam G., chief investment
officer at Mumbai-based Centrum Broking Pvt., comments on the
outlook for Indian equities after government data showed today
factory output expanded at at the slowest pace in 21 months.  Output at factories, utilities and mines rose 3.3 percent
from a year earlier, following an 8.8 percent gain in June, the
 Central Statistical Office  said. The median of 26 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 6.2 percent advance.  The BSE India Sensitive Index lost 431.19, or 2.6 percent,
to 16,435.78 at 1:09 p.m. Mumbai, set for the biggest decline
since Feb. 24.  “The IIP number is definitely surprising on the negative
side but the fact is that the IIP numbers are known for this
kind of surprises. Wide fluctuation is very common. I am not
worried about it. I don’t think the  Reserve Bank  of India will
increase interest rates now.”  India’s central bank has raised borrowing costs 11 times
since the start of 2010 to damp living costs that are rising the
fastest among the so-called BRICS countries of Brazil, Russia,
India, China and  South Africa . The bank’s next policy
announcement is due on Sept. 16.  “We should remember the fact that we had very high base
last year, so this might be a problem for August IIP as well. In
August, corporate income-tax collection, according to media
reports, was 30 percent higher from a year earlier and gross
personal income-tax was 20 percent higher. Export growth was 40
percent for August. Things should improve going forward.”  Advice to investors:  “We’re optimistic since 18,000 index and have not changed
our view. Investors should spread their funds and don’t invest
more than 30 percent of the wealth into equity. Go for stocks
which have the least global linkages. We have not bought shares
of a single software-services company in the past eight months.
The strategy should be to buy shares of cash-rich, high
dividend-paying companies.”  He recommends  Bharat Electronics Ltd. (BHE) ,  ITC Ltd. (ITC) ,
 Glaxosmithkline Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (GLXO)  and  JB Chemicals &
Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (JBCP)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Hemal Savai in Mumbai at  at
 hsavai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at  at
 Dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  