-- 
Indonesia’s Stock Market Value to Lure Investors, Panin Says

-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-09-12T10:12:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/indonesia-s-stock-market-value-to-lure-investors-panin-says-1-.html
Indonesian stocks have become more
attractive to overseas investors after the world’s fourth-most
populous nation overtook  Malaysia  as Southeast Asia’s second-
largest equities market by value, PT Panin Sekuritas said.  “Foreign investments into Indonesian stocks will likely
increase as portfolios are weighted in line with the size of a
nation’s stock market,” Winston Sual, who helps manage $991
million at Jakarta-based Panin Sekuritas, said in a Sept. 9
interview. The firm’s $407 million Panin Dana Maksima fund has
climbed 40 percent in the past year, beating 35 rival funds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The value of Indonesian equities surged 17 percent to $416
billion this year to Sept. 9, surpassing Malaysia’s $407 billion
to become the ninth-biggest stock market in Asia. Singapore’s
stock market is the biggest in Southeast  Asia  at $523 billion.
The  Jakarta Composite index (JCI)  has risen 8 percent in 2011 through
last week, compared with a 3.3 percent drop in the FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index.  Foreign investors stepped up buying of Indonesian shares as
China and  India  increased demand for coal and palm oil,
benefiting companies such as PT Bumi Resources and plantation
owner PT Astra Agro Lestari. Rising incomes have also spurred
domestic spending, lifting consumer companies including PT Astra
International, the biggest automotive retailer.  “ Indonesia ’s economy is the largest in Asean and it is
resilient because of strong domestic consumption,” Panin’s Sual
said, referring to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.  Faster Growth  The Indonesian economy, the largest in  Southeast Asia , will
likely expand 6.5 percent this year, the fastest pace since the
1998 Asian financial crisis, President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono
said Aug. 16. That compares with the Malaysian central bank’s
estimate for growth of as much as 6 percent.  Indonesia’s stock index dropped 2.6 percent to close at
3,896.12 in Jakarta, its biggest drop since Aug. 19. The Kuala
Lumpur benchmark index slid 1.6 percent to 1,446.26, compared
with a 1.9 percent fall in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  Bank Indonesia  kept its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged
on Sept. 8 at 6.75 percent for a seventh month to help support
domestic consumption, which accounts for about 56 percent of the
economy.  People Factor  Indonesia’s population of 243 million ranks behind only
those of  China , India and the U.S. By contrast, Malaysia has
about 28 million people and Singapore 4.7 million, U.S. Census
Bureau data show.  “There will be more investments going into the stock
market as people are looking for a growth story,” Lye Thim Loong, who helps manage about $770 million at Libra Invest Bhd.
in Kuala Lumpur, said. “We have been very actively investing in
Indonesia. You have the population to sustain a domestic
consumption story.”  Overseas investors bought a net $1.7 billion of Indonesian
shares this year through August, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Foreign investors sold a net 500 million ringgit
($166 million) of Malaysian stocks this year through August,
according to data from the  Kuala Lumpur  stock exchange and
Credit Suisse Group AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  