-- 
Inflation Bonds Show Growth Bigger Worry as Rates Point to 1.3% Global CPI

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-09-12T14:29:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/inflation-bonds-show-growth-bigger-worry-as-rates-point-to-1-3-global-cpi.html
Returns on inflation-linked bonds
fell below those of government debt by the most in almost three
years as the world economic slump makes it less likely that easy
monetary policies will trigger spiraling consumer prices.  Global sovereign debt gains are 1.3 percentage points
higher since the end of July than on so-called linkers according
to Bank of America Corp. indexes. The difference is the most
since November 2008. The gap in yields for these bonds on Sept.
9 indicated investors anticipated an annual global inflation
rate of 1.35 percent, down from 1.86 percent four months
earlier.  From Australia to the U.K. to the U.S. central bankers are
cutting inflation estimates, giving officials scope to try to
boost growth rates and employment. President Barack Obama
presented a $447 billion package of tax cuts and spending to a
joint session of Congress last week. The  European Central Bank 
left  interest rates  unchanged Sept. 8, saying economic prospects
had worsened.  “The inflation-linked debt market is confirming signals
from pretty much all other capital markets about concerns over
the outlook for European and U.S. economic growth,”  Jack Malvey , chief global markets strategist at Bank of New York
Mellon Corp., which manages $1.3 trillion, said in an interview
on Sept. 8. “The concerns which the market generally shared
over the first half of 2011 about the potential resurrection of
inflation in so-called advanced economies have subsided.”  Inflation Lower  Since the  Federal Reserve ’s $600 billion of quantitative
easing bond purchases ended June 30, expected rates of inflation
have declined in the U.S., Germany, Australia,  Sweden  and  Japan ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  International Monetary Fund  last week cut its forecast
for world growth to 4 percent in 2011 and 4.2 percent in 2012
from 4.2 percent and 4.3 in August, according to the Ansa news
agency citing a draft of the fund’s World Economic Outlook set
to be released Sept. 20.  The so-called 10-year break-even rate between yields on
U.S. government notes that aren’t indexed to consumer prices and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, was 0.69
percentage point below the peak reached eight months after Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s signal in August last year that the
central bank might begin another round of debt purchases to
avert deflation and boost growth.  That gap, which shows investors’ inflation expectations
over the life of the securities, has fallen to 1.97 percent as
of 10:25 a.m. in New York from 2.67 percent in April, and up
from 1.47 percent in August 2010.  Record Lows  Australian bonds show a similar picture. Consumer prices in
 Australia  will rise at a 2.55 percent annual pace over the next
five years, about one basis point above the lowest level since
September 2010, yields on inflation-linked debt show.  Treasury 10-year note yields fell to an all-time low of
1.877 percent today, and U.S. government securities returned 2.8
percent in August, the most since the depths of the financial
crisis in December 2008. They’ve gained 7.1 percent this year
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  Indexes compiled by Bank of America show diminishing
concerns about inflation worldwide. The difference in yields
between the firm’s Global Sovereign Bond Master index and its
Global Government Inflation-Linked index has narrowed to 1.35
percentage points on Sept. 9 from 1.57 percentage points at the
end of June and 1.86 percentage points April 8, the 2011 high.  The gauges differ as many countries in the Global Sovereign
index, such as  Malaysia , don’t have inflation-linked debt.  Inflation to Fall  Global sovereign debt had a 1.3 percentage point lower
return in July than inflation-linked securities, and 3.3
percentage points less in gains for the first half of the year,
according to Bank of America.  The IMF forecast in June that developed nation inflation
would rise to 2.6 percent this year from 1.6 percent in 2010,
and fall to 1.7 percent in 2012.  In  Brazil , inflation linked bonds advanced 7 percent since
July 8, compared with a 5.8 percent increase in notes with fixed
coupons. The country lowered borrowing costs Aug. 31, even as
consumer prices increased to a six-year high of 7.2 percent in
August. The central bank aims to keep inflation between 2.5
percent and 6.5 percent.  “Containing inflation pressure in Brazil is a very hard
job,” said Marcelo Schmitt, a  fund manager  in Sao Paulo at
SulAmerica Investimentos, which manages 20 billion reais ($12
billion). “The economic policy mix is stimulative. This is
something that is not sustainable in the medium to long term.”
He’s buying inflation-linked bonds in Brazil.  Obama’s Plan  Employment in the U.S. unexpectedly stagnated in August,
increasing pressure on Obama to spur an economy that’s barely
growing two years into the recovery. The  U.S. economy  expanded
at a 1 percent pace in the second quarter following a 0.4
percent gain in the first three months of the year, the Commerce
Department reported last month.  Obama urged the U.S. Congress Sept. 8 to pass a $447
billion jobs plan that sought to boost spending on
infrastructure, stem teacher layoffs, and cut in half the
payroll taxes paid by workers and small business owners.  A measure of traders’ inflation expectations that the Fed
uses to help determine monetary policy plunged to 2.61 percent
from 3.23 percent at the start of last month. The five-year,
five-year forward break-even rate, which projects what the pace
of annualized price increases for the five-year period starting
in 2016 will be, peaked this year just below the 3.28 percent
high reached in December 2010, touched amid the Fed’s second
round of quantitative easing.  Focus Shifts  The Fed’s informal target range for longer-term core
inflation is 1.7 percent to 2 percent as measured by a Commerce
Department gauge tied to  consumer spending .  “The bond markets’ focus has shifted from concerns about
inflation to concerns about economic growth,”  Nick Stamenkovic ,
a fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in
Edinburgh, said in an interview Sept. 6.  The euro zone sovereign-debt crisis has sapped business and
household confidence. The European Commission’s index of
executive and consumer sentiment fell last month to 98.3 from
103, its biggest drop since December 2008, three months after
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The economy faces “particularly high uncertainty and
intensified downside risks,” ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet
said at a press conference in  Frankfurt  on Sept. 8 after the
bank left its benchmark rate at 1.5 percent. The ECB cut its
2011 growth forecast to 1.6 percent from 1.9 and to 1.3 percent
from 1.7 percent for 2012. Inflation forecasts were left
unchanged at 2.6 percent for 2011 and 1.7 percent for next year.
Growth in the 17-nation euro area slowed to 0.2 percent in the
second quarter from 0.8 percent in the first.  Germany , U.K.  The 10-year German breakeven rate narrowed to 1.43
percentage points Sept. 9, the lowest since August 2010, while
the French equivalent shrank to 1.99 percent, also the lowest
since then.  As the British economy has faltered, the 10-year U.K.
breakeven rate has fallen to 2.67 percentage points from 3.10
two months ago. The  Bank of England  kept its key rate at a
record low of 0.5 percent and left its bond-purchase program at
200 billion pounds ($320 billion) on Sept. 8.  A gauge of U.K. services activity dropped the most in a
decade last month, a survey showed, days after reports showed
manufacturing shrank and construction growth slowed.  Fed Has ‘Tools’  “The Fed is limited in what they can do to get the economy
going and booming again, however they do have the necessary
tools to make sure inflation doesn’t become too low,” said
James Barnes, a money manager in Wyomissing,  Pennsylvania  at
National Penn Investors Trust, which oversees $1 billion in
fixed-income assets.  Fed officials last month discussed a range of tools,
including buying more  government bonds  and lengthening the
average maturity in its portfolio, without coming to an
agreement on what they might do should the economy weaken
further. Policy makers will debate their options this month at a
two-day meeting that was originally scheduled to last one day.  “What the market is saying is we don’t have enough growth
globally: do something about it,” said Krishna Memani, director
of fixed income at OppenheimerFunds Inc. in  New York , who helps
manage $70 billion, in an interview. “Whether it comes from
monetary policy, fiscal policy, the markets are ambivalent. The
inflationistas have been dead wrong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  