-- 
Iran Connects First Reactor to Grid; Plant to Reach Full Output This Year

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-09-12T14:38:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/iran-says-first-nuclear-plant-at-bushehr-to-start-power-production-today.html
Iran, which has been punished by
international sanctions over its nuclear program, inaugurated
its first atomic power plant, officially linking it to the
country’s electricity grid.  The Russian-built power station is “a symbol of Iranian-
Russian cooperation,”  Russia ’s energy minister, Sergei Shmatko,
said in an address aired live on state television. Shmatko, who
arrived in Tehran yesterday, spoke in an official ceremony today
at the plant near the southern port city of Bushehr.  The 1,000-megawatt plant will start generating electricity
at up to 40 percent of its capacity, Iranian Foreign Minister
 Ali Akbar Salehi  said in Tehran  yesterday , according to the
official  Islamic Republic News Agency . It will reach full
capacity by the end of the year, Iranian officials have said.  The U.S. and the European Union say sanctions against Iran
are justified because its nuclear program may be a cover for the
development of atomic weapons.  Iran  rejects the allegation,
saying it needs nuclear power to meet the energy needs of its
growing population.  Bushehr joined the national electricity network with
initial production of 60 megawatts Sept. 3. Power generation at
the plant, which officials had estimated would start as early as
2009, was repeatedly delayed because of technical problems and
the international dispute over  Iran’s nuclear program .  Started in 1974  Construction of the Bushehr facility was started in 1974 by
a predecessor of Siemens AG,  Germany ’s largest engineering
company. After the 1979  Islamic Revolution  that ousted the
monarchy, the Germans quit, saying payments had been delayed.  Russia took over the work after signing a $1 billion
contract in 1995, four years after the breakup of the  Soviet
Union  left the nation’s nuclear industry short of funds and
domestic orders.  Russia is supplying fuel for the Bushehr reactor and will
take away the used material. Enriched uranium, which is used to
fuel nuclear  power plants , can also be diverted to make nuclear
weapons.  Shmatko said today that his country would be willing to
cooperate on further nuclear projects with Iran, which says it
needs enough reactors to generate a total of 20,000 megawatts of
electricity by 2020.  “Taking into account the trust that has been built by
working with our Iranian partners, Russia would be fully willing
to cooperate on other nuclear power plants in Iran,” Shmatko
said in a press conference shown live on television following
the inauguration ceremony.  ‘Good Experience’  The head of Iran’s Atomic Energy Organization, Fereydoun
Abbasi, echoed his comments.  “The good experience we’ve had with Russia encourages us
to have greater cooperation and we welcome all proposals that
maintain the two countries’ interests,” Abbasi said, speaking
at the same press conference.  The nuclear power plant will be disconnected from the
national grid some time after today’s ceremony for tests to be
carried over “several weeks” until it can operate at full
capacity, Press TV said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 