-- 
Italy Seeks $10B as Contagion Slams Demand

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-09-12T23:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/italy-seeks-10b-as-contagion-slams-demand.html
Italy  is auctioning as much as 7
billion euros ($10 billion) of bonds one day after borrowing
costs surged at a bill auction, as  Greece ’s slide toward default
roils global markets.  The treasury is selling 4 billion euros of a new benchmark
five-year bond today, after 10-year yields climbed to a five-
week high of 5.571 percent. Investors charged Italy 4.153 
percent yesterday in a one-year bill offering, up from 2.959 
percent a month ago.  “It’s rather unfortunate that the Italian auction is
taking place when the market is in a panic mode,” said Fabrizio Fiorini, the head of fixed income at Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA in
Milan. “Borrowing costs are likely to remain at elevated
levels. The rise in Italian yields is manifestation of a lack of
market confidence in European leaders’ ability to tackle the
problem.”  A debt of 1.9 trillion euros -- more than  Spain , Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal  combined -- leaves Italy vulnerable to any
advance in borrowing costs as it refinances maturing debt. The
sales, which also include as much as 3 billion euros of bonds
due in 2018 and 2020, will help fund 14.5 billion euros of debt
scheduled for repayment on Sept. 15.  Italian officials have held talks with Chinese counterparts 
about potential investments in the euro region’s third-largest 
economy, an Italian government official said late yesterday. The 
purchase of Italian bonds by  China  wasn't the focus of the
talks, which took place in the past few weeks, the official said
on condition of anonymity. A spokesman for Italian Finance
Minister  Giulio Tremonti  declined to comment.   The Financial Times earlier reported that Italy aims to sell
``significant'' quantities of bonds and stakes in strategic 
companies to China.   Default Risk  Divisions among European leaders on aiding Greece and
preventing Italy from being engulfed by the debt crisis is
sapping demand for bonds in the region. In Greece, Prime Minister 
 George Papandreou ’s latest offer of increased austerity is failing 
to convince investors the country can meet its fiscal targets and 
avoid default.   The yield on Greece’s two-year note yesterday surged to
almost 70 percent, while the cost of insuring Greek, French,
Spanish and Italian debt against default all rose to records.
The premium investors demand to hold Italian 10-year bonds
rather than comparable German bunds rose to 383 basis points,
nearing a euro-era record close of 389.5 set on Aug. 4.  European stocks slumped, dragged lower by a slide in shares
of banks who are the biggest holders of Greek and Italian bonds.
UniCredit SpA, Italy’s largest bank, fell 11 percent to 69 euro
cents, the biggest decline and lowest close since March 2009.
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA fell 9.5 percent to close at the lowest in
more than 14 years.  Funding Needs  “The contagion impact of a default will be severe, because
next in the firing line will be Italy, Spain, and it will take
in the whole of the European banking sector too,”  Suki Mann , a
strategist at Societe Generale SA in London, wrote in a report.  While Italy has completed more than 70 percent of its debt
financing this year, it still needs to sell about 70 billion
euros of bonds by year-end to cover its  budget deficit  and other
redemptions.  Italian yields are at their highest since the  European
Central Bank  started buying Italian bonds on Aug. 8. To secure
the ECB backstop, Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  rushed
through a 54 billion-euro austerity package that faces final
approval from the lower house of parliament as soon as tomorrow.  Berlusconi’s allies began watering down the bill soon after
it was first approved by the Cabinet on Aug. 12 and the
backslide triggered an 11-day slump in Italian bonds that ended
Sept. 6. One day before the Senate was set to vote on the plan,
the government added a one-percentage point increase in the
value added tax to compensate for a raft of measures that had
been dropped from the original plan.  Premier's Plan  Berlusconi said yesterday that he had “performed a
miracle” by delivering the deficit package just four days after
the ECB called for the measures in exchange for buying the
country’s bonds. Berlusconi travels to Brussels and Strasbourg
today to defend the plan to EU Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso and EU President  Herman Van Rompuy .  “The prospect of the budget approval, which should
otherwise benefit Italy’s bonds, can’t offset the negative
effect of the uncertainties over the outcome of the euro
crisis,” said  Chiara Cremonesi , a fixed-income strategist at
UniCredit Research in  London . “Today’s auction should go better
than yesterday as the pressure on the spreads should ease.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  