-- 
Italian Yields Surge as Papandreou Struggles With Greece Default Concern

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-09-12T13:53:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/italian-yields-surge-as-papandreou-struggles-with-greece-default-concern.html
Italian bond yields surged at an
auction today and Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  failed
to reassure investors that his country can avert default as the
euro region’s debt crisis worsened.  Italy sold 12-month bills today to yield 4.153 percent, up
from 2.959 percent a month ago as demand fell. The yield on
Greece’s two-year note surpassed 60 percent for the first time
after the government said it would raise property taxes to meet
the 2011 deficit goal in its European Union-led rescue.  Papandreou is struggling to convince investors that
Europe’s most-indebted country can avoid a default that
threatens to roil the euro region. That’s undermining European
leaders’ efforts to stop contagion from spreading to Spain and
Italy as splits emerge in the German government about how best
to handle  Greece .  “We have got to the stage when markets have lost an
enormous amount of faith with the euro project as a whole,”
said  Marc Ostwald , strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in
 London .  Papandreou’s pledges to meet the deficit target was
undermined by data released today showing the central
government’s budget gap widened 22 percent in the first eight
months as austerity measures deepened a three-year recession.
The government now expects the economy to shrink more than 5
percent this year, more than the 3.8 percent forecast by the
European Commission.  Safe Haven  Rising concern about a Greek default prompted stock
investors to dump shares of banks, the biggest holders of Greek
debt, and buyers of fixed income to take refuge in the safest
European bonds. The euro slipped to its lowest level against the
yen since 2001. Investors are valuing European banks at levels
not seen since the depth of the credit crunch that followed the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and yields on  Europe ’s
AAA-rated countries fell to record lows today.  BNP Paribas SA, Societe Generale SA and Credit Agricole SA
plunged more than 9 percent today after two people with
knowledge of the matter said Moody’s Investors Service may cut
their ratings. The yield on  Germany ’s 10-year government bond
fell as low as 1.701 percent.  Post-Lehman Lows  A Bloomberg index shows 46 lenders trading at 0.56 times
book value, the cheapest since the post-Lehman lows of March
2009, signaling investors estimate their net assets are worth
less than the companies claim and are demanding discounts for
perceived risks.  The inability of European leaders to shore up Greece has
allowed contagion to spread to  Italy  and pushed the yield on its
10-year  government bonds  to a euro-era record of 6.4 percent on
Aug. 5, spurring the  European Central Bank  to buy the debt of
the euro area’s third-largest economy. The Frankfurt-based ECB
said today it settled 14 billion euros ($19 billion) of bond
purchases in the week through Sept. 9, up from 13.3 billion euros
in the previous week.  In return for ECB action, Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
was forced to deliver a 54 billion euro ($73 billion) austerity
package that aimed to eliminate the  budget deficit  in 2013 and
begin to reduce the region’s second-biggest debt. The yield on
the country’s 10-year bond rose 10 basis points to 5.51 percent
today.  Bond Auction  Demand for the country’s bills declined at the auction, one
day before Italy sells four different bonds tomorrow to finance
a 14.4 billion-euro maturity on Sept. 15. Investors demanded
1.53 times the 7.5 billion euros of one-year bills today, down
from 1.94 times a month ago.  After the sale the yield difference between Italy’s
benchmark 10-year bond and comparable German bunds widened 16
basis points to 379, approaching the record high close of 389
basis points on Aug. 4. The yield difference between Greek and
German 10-year bonds rose to a record 21.4 percentage points.
Credit-default swaps on Greece, Italy,  Spain  and  France  all
advanced to records.  German officials are trying to brace their banks for a
potential Greek default and debating how to shore them up in the
event Greece misses budget-cutting goals and is unable to get a
further loan payout, three coalition officials said Sept. 9.  “The contingency plans to shore up German banks in case of
a Greek default are adding to negative sentiment,” said  Philip Gisdakis , a strategist at UniCredit SpA in Munich.  No Exit  The European Commission isn’t working on scenarios for
Greek default either, spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  told reporters
in Brussels today. Papandreou called on Greeks to show skeptics
that the country would not be forced from the single currency.  Angela Merkel ’s government lurched into open conflict over
tackling the debt crisis, as the German chancellor called for
Greece to get more time and her coalition allies suggested it
may need to default and leave the euro area.  “To stabilize the euro in the short term there can’t be
any taboos,” Philipp Roesler, the vice chancellor and economy
minister who heads Merkel’s Free Democratic coalition partner,
said in an op-ed published in Die Welt newspaper today and e-
mailed by his party.  The cost of insuring European sovereign and bank debt rose
to records today. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of
credit-default swaps on 15 governments soared 17 basis points to
353 at 2 p.m. in London. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index
linked to senior debt of 25 banks and insurers increased 17
basis points to 317, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Attacking ‘Vampires’  “The markets just won’t put up with this for much longer,
so either this will push Greek to default, and the  euro zone 
hasn’t done much from stopping that, or they will go like
vampires and attack the next one,” said Ostwald.  French banks, among the biggest holders in Europe of Greek
debt, came under pressure today with shares of  Societe Generale (GLE) 
falling to the lowest since 1995. Bank of France Governor
 Christian Noyer  said French banks are capable of facing any
Greek situation and don’t have liquidity or solvency problems.  Moody’s placed the three French banks’ ratings on review in
June, citing “the potential for inconsistency between the
impact of a possible Greek default or restructuring and current
rating levels.” Cuts are likely as the review period concludes,
said the people who declined to be identified because the matter
is confidential.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  