-- 
Italian Industrial Output Declines as Growth Seen Slowing

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-09-12T10:12:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/italian-industrial-production-declines-as-growth-seen-slowing.html
Italian industrial output fell for
a third month in July as production of non-durable goods
declined on signs the economic recovery is slowing.  Output decreased 0.7 percent from June, when it declined a
revised 0.8 percent, Rome-based  statistics office Istat  said
today. Economists forecast production to rise 0.1 percent,
according to the median of 21 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Output fell 1.6 percent from a year earlier on a
workday-adjusted basis, the first drop since December 2009.  Growth in  Italy  remained sluggish in the second quarter
amid slowing exports and weak domestic demand, Istat said last
week. A 54 billion-euro ($75 billion) austerity plan passed to
convince the  European Central Bank  and investors that the
country can tame its finances may damp growth. GDP will fall 0.1
percent in the three months through September and rise 0.1
percent in the fourth quarter, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development forecast last week.  Production “entered the third quarter on a very weak
footing, as the weakening global cycle and the ongoing
turbulence in financial markets start weighing on firms’
sentiment and, in turn, on factory activity,” economists Chiara Corsa and Loredana Federico at UniCredit Research in Milan said
in a report today.  Growth Forecasts  Production of  consumer goods  declined 3.2 percent in July
from the previous month, led by a 3.6 percent drop in non-
durable goods, Istat said in the report.  The government hasn’t revised its April 11 growth forecasts
that projected an expansion of gross domestic product of 1.1
percent this year and of 1.3 percent in 2012. Finance Minister
 Giulio Tremonti  said on Aug. 13 that he was sticking by those
figures.  “The government should re-open the reform agenda and
deliver structural reforms to improve the competitiveness of the
economy as this would increase potential GDP growth,” Fabio Fois, an economist at  Barclays Capital  in  London , said in a note
today. “GDP growth prospects remain crucial for Italy, in
particular in a context of weakening growth globally.”  Fois said last week he expects the euro region’s third-
biggest economy to grow 0.8 percent this year and 0.7 percent in
2012.  Ben May , an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London,
said on Sept. 8 that he sees the economy contracting in 2012 and
2013 as austerity damps demand.  Istat initially reported a 0.6 percent decline of
industrial output in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  