-- 
Ivory Coast to Set Minimum Cocoa-Selling Price for Farmers

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   D r e w   H i n s h a w
-- 
2011-09-12T15:34:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/ivory-coast-to-set-minimum-cocoa-selling-price-for-farmers-minister-says.html
Ivory Coast , the world’s biggest
cocoa producer, will ensure that farmers get a minimum price for
their beans, said Agriculture Minister Mamadou Sangafowa Coulibaly.  “At least 50 percent of the price will go to the farmers,”
he told reporters today in Abidjan, the commercial capital. The
plan is among a set of cocoa-industry reforms aimed at curbing
smuggling between Ivory Coast and neighboring  Ghana , he said.  The West African nation also plans to increase processing
of beans to as much as 50 percent of the harvest from about 35
percent currently, Coulibaly said. More details on changes will
be announced at a later date, he said.  Ivory Coast is emerging from a nearly five-month post-
election crisis that was sparked when former leader  Laurent Gbagbo  refused to cede power to  Alassane Ouattara . Exports of
cocoa and coffee were largely halted between January and April
in a bid to starve Gbagbo of funds, a move that spurred
smuggling to neighboring Ghana. The London-based International
Cocoa Organization estimated in May the illegal trade reached
about 100,000 metric tons.  Production in the 2010-11 season, which ends this month, is
forecast at 1.2 million tons to 1.25 million tons after problems
with aging trees curbed output, Finance Minister Charles Koffi Diby said in an interview in the Senegalese capital, Dakar,
today.  “It’s from 2012 onward that we’re going to have a good,
more interesting harvest,” Diby said.  In June, Ivory Coast said it would replant 120,000 hectares
(296,500 acres) of aging cocoa trees, which have lower yields,
over the next three years. Nestle SA said on June 28 it would
distribute 600,000 high-yielding trees to farmers to improve
quality and boost production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Hinshaw in Dakar via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  