-- 
Japanese, Australian Stock Futures Gain on Easing European Worry

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-09-12T23:30:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/japanese-australia-stock-futures-gain-on-report-china-may-invest-in-italy.html
Japanese and Australian stock
futures gained after a report that China may invest in  Italy 
eased concerns about Europe’s debt crisis.  American depositary receipts of Honda Motor Co., Japan’s No.
2 carmaker by market value, gained 0.6 percent from the closing
share price in Tokyo. Those of  Canon Inc. (7751) , a camera maker that
gets almost a third of its revenue from Europe, rose 0.3 percent
after European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said
central bankers around the world stand ready to support the
banking system as the global economy slows. ADRs of  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , Australia’s No. 1 oil producer, jumped 1.7 percent after
crude prices advanced.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
December closed at 8,515 in Chicago yesterday, compared with
8,480 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,490
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index rose 1 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index rose
0.3 percent in Wellington.  “ China  has been showing that it doesn’t want a default in
Euro countries. So, it may buy  government bonds  in countries
such as Italy,” said  Fumiyuki Nakanishi , a strategist at Tokyo-
based SMBC Friend Securities Co. “Trichet’s remarks will give
the market confidence.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent
today. In New York, the index rebounded 0.7 percent yesterday,
reversing losses in the last 90 minutes of trading, after the
Financial Times reported that Italy aims to sell “significant”
quantities of bonds and stakes in strategic companies to China.  Possible Solution  An Italian government official, who declined to be
identified, told Bloomberg News that Italian officials have held
talks with Chinese counterparts about potential investment in
the euro region’s third-largest economy.  “If China is willing to invest in Italy, maybe that’s the
solution,’  Mark Bronzo , who helps manage $26 billion at Security
Global Investors in Irvington, New York, said in a telephone
interview. “It introduces a new source of capital that people
weren’t considering outside  Europe . Maybe the other countries
are going to be able to find capital on their own. That’s what
we need to see to shore up these countries.”  Also, Trichet yesterday signaled support for the banking
system, saying in Basel, Switzerland: “We have the weaponry to
provide what is necessary.”  Stocks fell earlier yesterday in New York amid concern
Greece is moving closer to a debt default. Moody’s Investors
Service may cut the ratings of BNP Paribas SA, Societe Generale
SA and Credit Agricole SA this week because of their Greek
holdings, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 14 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 7.6 percent drop by the  S&P
500  and a 21 percent loss by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks
in the Asian benchmark are valued at 11.7 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 11.6 for the S&P 500 and 9.1
times for the Stoxx 600.  Crude oil for October delivery gained 1.1 percent to settle
at $88.19 a barrel in New York yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in  Tokyo  at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 