-- 
Jeffrey Gundlach Testifies He Met With Goldman Sachs Before TCW Fired Him

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-09-12T19:00:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/jeffrey-gundlach-testifies-he-met-with-goldman-sachs-before-tcw-fired-him.html
Jeffrey Gundlach testified that he
met with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  before TCW Group Inc. fired
him in 2009 and that he sought advice on how to improve his
situation at the Los Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA.  Gundlach was the final witness in the trial over whether he
stole TCW’s trade secrets before starting his own company or TCW
fired him to avoid to paying management and performance fees
owed to him as the firm’s chief investment officer.  He told jurors in state court in  Los Angeles  today that he
was advised by Goldman Sachs either to arrange for better
corporate governance terms so that he could stay at TCW, attempt
a management buyout of TCW or negotiate his own departure.
Gundlach said he hadn’t decided to leave TCW at the time of his
last conversation with Goldman Sachs on Dec. 1, 2009, which was
three days before he was fired.  Ten days after he was terminated, Gundlach, 51, who worked
at TCW for 25 years and was named Morningstar’s Fixed Income
Manager of the Year in 2006, started his own money management
firm, DoubleLine Capital LP.  TCW sued in January 2010 alleging that Gundlach and three
other former employees stole TCW’s trade secrets to start
DoubleLine. TCW’s damages expert testified that the company
suffered $344 million in damages from Gundlach’s alleged
interference with contracts and $222 million from a claimed
breach of fiduciary duty.  ‘Through the Roof’  In a countersuit, Gundlach claimed that TCW fired him to
avoid having to pay management and performance fees for the
distressed-asset funds his group managed and that went “through
the roof.” Gundlach seeks about $500 million.  DoubleLine’s lawyers called Gundlach, who had already
testified both in TCW’s and DoubleLine’s case, to refute
testimony by a Goldman Sachs banker that Gundlach had said at a
November 2009 meeting that he didn’t have an employment
agreement with TCW.  TCW claims that Gundlach can’t seek as much as $500 million
for breach of contract because he didn’t have a signed contract
when he was fired. Gundlach maintains he had been working and
was getting paid under a valid agreement made in 2007.  Closing arguments in the trial, which started July 28, are
scheduled for tomorrow.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v.  Jeffrey Gundlach ,
BC429385, California Superior Court, Los Angeles County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 