-- 
Jets’ Darkest Moments Were Prelude to Brightest in Comeback Over Cowboys

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-09-12T07:04:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/jets-darkest-moments-were-prelude-to-brightest-in-comeback-over-cowboys.html
For Rex Ryan and the  New York Jets ,
the darkest moments of the fourth quarter were the prelude to
the brightest.  Trailing 24-10 in the opening moments of the fourth
quarter, the Jets forced Dallas Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo
into two turnovers and returned a blocked punt for a touchdown
on the way to a 27-24 win in the team’s home opener.  “It looked bleak, there’s no question about it,” Ryan
told reporters after the game. “That might have been the best
team effort I can remember being a part of.”  The win put the Jets one game closer to the Super Bowl
victory Ryan has promised at the start of each of his three
seasons and spoiled Cowboys quarterback  Tony Romo ’s return after
missing 10 starts last year with a broken collarbone. The Jets
reached the past two conference championships, one win shy of
the title game.  The Jets-Cowboys matchup concluded the  National Football
League ’s first Sunday of action since the four-month lockout
disrupted the offseason. The opening slate of games also
included the defending champion Green Bay Packers’ 42-34 win
over the  New Orleans Saints  on Sept. 8, a game NBC said was
watched by 27.2 million people.  Cowboys coach  Jason Garrett  called the loss a disappointing
start to the season, while praising the Jets’ defense both
physically and tactically.  “We have to handle situations at the end of the game
better,” he said. “That’s what the best teams in the league
do.”  Opening Drive  Romo and the Cowboys started strong, even after being held
to 64 yards rushing in the game. Romo completed four of five
passes in the team’s 61-yard opening drive, including a three-
yard touchdown to receiver Dez Bryant. In the third quarter, he
threw a 36-yard touchdown pass to  Miles Austin , who wrestled the
ball away from Jets cornerback  Antonio Cromartie .  “When Romo gets hot like that, he’s about as good as there
is,” Ryan said.  Dallas then followed an interception thrown by Jets
quarterback  Mark Sanchez  with a one-yard touchdown run by Felix Jones that helped give the Cowboys a 14-point lead in the fourth
quarter.  That’s when the Jets started to turn it around. Sanchez
found Plaxico Burress, the former Giants receiver in his first
game after serving 20 months in prison on a weapons charge, for
a 26-yard touchdown. Romo then led Dallas as far as  New York ’s
three yard-line before Jets tackle Mike DeVito wrestled the ball
free, preventing a Cowboys score.  When the Cowboys attempted to punt after their next
offensive series, Joe McKnight dove in to block it. Jets
defensive back Isaiah Trufant, signed off the practice squad for
the game, recovered the ball and ran it in for the tying score.  Revis Interception  With 56 seconds left, Jets cornerback  Darrelle Revis 
intercepted Romo’s throw to Bryant, setting up a Nick Folk’s
game-winning field goal with 32 seconds remaining.  “That’s a great defense,” Romo said. “It’s frustrating
to know that we win that football game if I don’t do what I
did.”  Ryan also praised the Cowboys defense, run by his twin
brother Rob. The Jets gained just 45 yards rushing in the game.
Sanchez finished completing 26 of 44 passes for 335 yards with
two touchdowns and an interception.  Ryan said he was proud of his quarterback and his team,
which never gave up even when the game seemed lost.  “There’s no quit in this bunch -- none,” Ryan said. “We
just kept thinking momentum’s coming our way, and sure enough it
did.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  East Rutherford ,  New Jersey  at   akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  