-- 
Rajaratnam, JPMorgan, BofA, KKR, Madoff in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-09-12T10:36:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/jpmorgan-chase-bofa-kkr-madoff-dow-ford-in-court-news.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj
Rajaratnam said the punishment sought by the government for his
insider-trading convictions is “grotesquely severe” and should
be rejected by the court. The U.S. said a long prison sentence
is warranted.  Rajaratnam, 54, on Sept. 9 asked U.S. District Judge
Richard Holwell in  Manhattan  for a sentence “substantially
below” what is called for by federal guidelines. The
government’s requested sentence of 19 1/2 to 24 1/2 years
“would guarantee Mr. Rajaratnam’s death in prison,” he said in
a court filing.  “This court’s role is not to validate a prosecutorial
public relations effort, nor is it to single out one man to
serve as the whipping boy for Wall Street misdeeds,” Rajaratnam
argued.  Rajaratnam was convicted in May of all 14 criminal counts
of conspiracy and securities fraud he was charged with. He’s
scheduled to be sentenced Sept. 27. Rajaratnam argued that the
government’s requested sentence is more than the average
sentence imposed for kidnapping and hostage-taking, sexual
abuse, robbery, arson and child pornography.  Assistant U.S. Attorneys  Reed Brodsky  and Jonathan
Streeter, who prosecuted the case, asked Holwell in a filing
Sept. 9 to reject Rajaratnam’s pleas for leniency based on his
poor health and charitable contributions.  “In arguing for leniency because of his health, Rajaratnam
overlooks that he committed his crimes for years after he knew
about his medical problems and thus he is in no position to seek
leniency now based on them,” they said.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  AT&T Fights U.S. Suit, Calls T-Mobile Deal Good for Public  AT&T Inc. (T)  said its proposed $39 billion acquisition of T-
Mobile USA Inc. is good for mobile-phone customers and that the
U.S. lawsuit seeking to block the deal “fails to come to
grips” with its benefits.  AT&T filed its response Sept. 9 to the U.S.  Justice
Department ’s complaint in federal court in  Washington . The
company said the merger would lead to better service, fewer
dropped calls and lower prices for consumers. AT&T cited fierce
competition from  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ,  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S) , MetroPCS Communications Inc., Leap Wireless International
Inc., U.S. Cellular Corp. and Cellular South Inc.  “The Department does not and cannot explain how, in the
face of all these aggressive rivals, the combined AT&T/T-Mobile
will have any ability or incentive to restrict output, raise
prices, or slow innovation,” AT&T said in the filing.  AT&T described T-Mobile as “the only major carrier to have
actually lost subscribers in a robustly growing market” with a
business model that has it trapped between large providers and
lower-priced competitors.  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and Bonn-
based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a
combination of the two companies, which would make AT&T the
biggest U.S. wireless carrier, would “substantially” reduce
competition.  Mike Balmoris, an AT&T spokesman in Washington, said in an
e-mail that the company remains “interested in a solution that
addresses the DOJ’s issues with the T-Mobile merger.”  Hernan Daguerre, a T-Mobile spokesman, declined to comment
on the filing.  “This transaction as currently proposed is anticompetitive
and harmful to consumers,”  Gina Talamona , a spokeswoman for the
antitrust division of the Justice Department, said in an
interview. “We will respond further in our court filings.”  Sprint, which has filed its own lawsuit opposing the
merger, said AT&T’s filing doesn’t change its position on the
deal.  “The proposed takeover would create a clear wireless
duopoly that could raise prices, stifle innovation and cost
American jobs,” Sprint spokesman John Taylor said in an e-mail.  U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle has set a hearing
for Sept. 21 and told the parties to be prepared to discuss
settlement options.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  Banks May Fight Banks as Investors Pursue Class Status  Banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  may pay more to resolve claims over their alleged roles in
the collapse of a $2.3 trillion mortgage-backed securities
market if sophisticated investors are allowed to sue as a group
along with less savvy ones, Thom Weidlich of Bloomberg News
reports.  Class-action status allows investors to pool financial and
legal resources, giving them greater leverage to win larger
settlements or verdicts. The banks, however, have a court ruling
on their side that may help fend off such blockbuster cases. It
says class status is barred because some investors are too
sophisticated -- in fact, because some of them are other banks,
including JPMorgan.  “It is possible to be both an alleged perpetrator and
victim at the same time,” said Jacob S. Frenkel, a former U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission lawyer now in private
practice in Potomac,  Maryland . “It’s unprecedented that you
have the most sophisticated institutions as victims, to be in a
position where their losses are so great that they have sued.”  The ruling by U.S. District Judge Harold Baer Jr. in
Manhattan, favoring defendants  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
and Ally Financial Inc., held that investors may not sue as a
class in part because some of them are being sued over the same
claims. Last month, that ruling was countered by two judges in
Baer’s courthouse, both of whom ruled that investors in home-
loan backed securities may sue as a class.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that, once burst, helped push the
U.S. into the biggest recession since the 1930s. Investors have
filed class-action, or group, lawsuits against at least 16
private issuers of securities backed by mortgages.  The cases are New Jersey Carpenters Health Fund v.
Residential Capital LLC, 08-08781, New Jersey Carpenters
Vacation Fund v. The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc., 08-
05093, Public Employees’ Retirement System of Mississippi v.
Merrill Lynch & Co., 08-010841, New Jersey Carpenters Health
Fund v. DLJ Mortgage Capital Inc., 08-05653, Public Employees’
Retirement System of Mississippi v.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
09-01110, In re  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Pass-Through Certificates
Litigation, 09-02137, and In re IndyMac Mortgage-Backed
Securities Litigation, 09-04583, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan); Plumbers’ & Pipefitters’ Local
#562 Supplemental Plan & Trust v. J.P. Morgan Acceptance Corp.,
08-01713, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
( Brooklyn ); In re Wells Fargo Mortgage-Backed Certificates
Litigation, 09-01376, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose); and In re Washington Mutual Mortgage-
Backed Securities Litigation, 09-cv-00037, U.S. District Court,
Western District of Washington (Seattle).  For more, click here.  KKR, Blackstone Deal-Rigging Antitrust Suit Expanded by Judge  Plaintiffs in a case accusing 11 firms, including KKR & Co.
and  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , of conspiring to rig the market for
leveraged buyout deals can expand their investigation, a federal
judge ruled.  The plaintiffs, including a Detroit police and fire pension
fund, can seek information on 10 additional deals, U.S. District
Judge Edward F. Harrington said in a ruling Sept. 7. He didn’t
identify the transactions, which are described in a fifth
amended complaint filed under seal. The firms argued that adding
the deals would be “unduly burdensome and prejudicial,”
according to court papers.  The lawsuit, initially filed in 2007, claims the firms
conspired to drive down prices in the largest leveraged buyout
deals in violation of federal antitrust laws. The case
previously was limited to 17 transactions. Harrington gave the
plaintiffs until April 17 to seek the information.  Among the deals in question is Neiman Marcus Group Inc.’s
$5.1 billion buyout by Warburg Pincus LLC and TPG Capital Inc.,
SunGard Data Systems Inc.’s $11.3 billion takeover by seven
private-equity firms and Aramark Corp.’s roughly $8.3 billion
purchase in January 2007. Three plaintiffs are also shareholders
of Freescale Semiconductor Inc., which was taken private by a
group including Blackstone and  Carlyle Group . TPG and Carlyle
are also defendants in the suit.  The firms allegedly formed “bidding clubs,” referred to
in the private-equity industry as “consortia” or “teams” to
rig the bidding, according to a redacted fourth amended
complaint made public Sept 9. Use of the clubs limited the
number of bidders, depressing prices at target companies, the
plaintiffs said.  “We’re not going to have any comment on that,”  Owen
Blicksilver , a spokesman for Fort Worth, Texas-based TPG, said
in a telephone interview Sept. 9.  Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman for New York-based KKR, said
the company doesn’t comment on pending litigation. Blackstone
spokeswoman Christine Anderson and  Chris Ullman  of Carlyle Group
didn’t return phone messages seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is Dahl v. Bain Capital Partners LLC, 07-12388,
U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  Madoff Trustee Sets $272 Million Payout, Sept. 15 Record Date  The liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s firm is planning an
initial distribution of $272 million to investors holding
allowed claims as of Sept. 15, according to a court filing.  The trustee,  Irving Picard , intends to issue payments by
the end of the third quarter, after reviewing allowed claims
against the jailed confidence man, he said in July. The average
check, arriving almost three years after the Ponzi scheme
collapsed, will be $222,551, he said.  Holders of claims against Madoff that were sold or
transferred will only receive distributions from Picard if the
21-day notice-and-objection period on the transfer has expired
by Sept. 15, according to the filing.  Picard, who has filed more than 1,000 lawsuits seeking
money for Madoff investors, in May allotted $2.6 billion to a
fund for victims of the Ponzi scheme. Because of court
challenges, most of the $8.6 billion he has raised isn’t
currently available to put in the customer fund or distribute to
claimholders who lost an estimated $17.3 billion in principal,
he has said.  Madoff, 73, is in a federal prison in North Carolina,
serving a 150-year sentence for the fraud. Picard and his law
firm, Baker & Hostetler LLP, have made about $179 million in
fees since Madoff’s 2008 arrest.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Dow Chemical, Sasol Win Dismissal of Greenpeace Lawsuit  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and Sasol North America Inc. won the
dismissal of a lawsuit alleging the chemical companies illegally
spied on an affiliate of Greenpeace International, the
environmental advocacy group.  Greenpeace Inc. sued under the federal Racketeer Influenced
and Corrupt Organizations Act. A federal judge in Washington
ruled Sept. 9 that the nonprofit organization failed to
establish a direct connection between corporate espionage and
civil racketeering allegations and any injury the group
suffered.  “The direct victim of this alleged wire fraud was not
Greenpeace, but a third party, and, therefore, the link between
Greenpeace’s injuries and defendants’ alleged racketeering
activity is too attenuated to be actionable under RICO,” U.S.
District Judge Rosemary M. Collyer wrote in her ruling.  Greenpeace claimed that Dow, closely held Sasol and two
public relations firms from 1998 to 2000 conspired to infiltrate
and steal confidential information to thwart its environmental
campaigns.  Greenpeace said the spying included breaking into locked
trash bins outside its Washington headquarters and infiltrating
meetings and electronic communications.  The injured third party the judge referred to was Calcasieu
League for Environmental Action Now, described in the ruling as
an ally of Greenpeace.  Molly Dorozenski, a Greenpeace spokeswoman, declined to
comment immediately, saying the group’s lawyers were reviewing
the ruling.  “As we have said from the beginning, the case totally
lacked merit and should have never been filed by Greenpeace,”
said  Gregory Baldwin , a spokesman for Midland, Michigan-based
Dow, the largest U.S. chemical maker, in an e-mail. “No Dow
employee did anything improper.”  Matthew Kirtland, a Washington lawyer representing Houston-
based Sasol North America Inc., said his client is pleased with
the court’s decision.  The case is Greenpeace Inc. v. Dow Chemical Co., 10-cv-
02037, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  Lorillard Label Challenge Should Be Rejected, U.S. Says  The U.S. asked a judge to reject a bid by  Lorillard Inc. (LO) ,
the maker of Newport cigarettes, and three other tobacco
companies to stop the government from putting new warnings on
cigarette packs.  The U.S. Justice Department, in a filing Sept. 9 in federal
court in Washington, said the Food and Drug Administration has
the authority to require labels warning of the health risks of
smoking. The companies are seeking a preliminary injunction
delaying the rule, scheduled to take effect Sept. 22, 2012.  The FDA regulation mandates that cigarette packs, cartons
and advertising display graphic warning labels. The warnings
will be accompanied by pictures of rotting teeth or damaged
lungs to deter smokers.  “The public interest strongly mitigates against delaying
health warnings that more effectively convey the extraordinary,
undisputed health risks created by the use of plaintiffs’
products,” the Justice Department said.  Lorillard, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Commonwealth Brands
Inc. and Liggett Group LLC sued last month saying the regulation
violates the First Amendment.  Ronald Milstein, Greensboro, North Carolina-based
Lorillard’s senior vice president and general counsel, didn’t
return a telephone message after normal business hours seeking
comment on the filing.  Representatives in the public relations department of
 Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , R.J. Reynolds’s parent, didn’t reply to
a phone message seeking comment.  The case is R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. v. U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, 11-cv-1482, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia (Washington).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  Trials/Appeals  Ford Asks Court to Reverse $2 Billion Award to Truck Dealers  Ford Motor Co. (F)  asked an Ohio appeals court to reverse a $2
billion judgment awarded in June to a class of commercial truck
dealers who claimed the company overcharged them for 11 years.  The dealers sued Ford in 2002, claiming the company broke
an agreement to sell trucks at published prices, which forced
them to pay more from 1987 through 1998 and cut into profits.
Cuyahoga County Judge Peter J. Corrigan in June upheld a $4.5
million verdict awarded to one Ohio dealer in February by a
 Cleveland  jury. The Cleveland judge also said Ford had to pay
similar damages and interest to a class of about 3,000 other
dealers.  The judge improperly found Ford liable before trial for
breach of franchise agreements and prevented the company from
defending itself on damages, the automaker said in a Sept. 2
filing with the Court of Appeals for Cuyahoga County in
Cleveland. Ford also said Corrigan shouldn’t have applied his
findings on one dispute across hundreds of thousands of
transactions involving other dealers.  “The trial court’s grant of summary judgment on liability
exemplifies the court’s repeated and erroneous election to take
away from the jury key questions on liability and damages,”
Ford said in court papers. “The trial court deprived Ford of
its rights to due process and a trial by jury.”  The total $2 billion award is five times higher than the
amount of the largest-ever jury award against Dearborn,
Michigan-based Ford in a lawsuit, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg News.  The court’s judgment was the largest of any type in Ohio
history, Ford said in its appeal. “That staggering judgment was
as unwarranted as it was unprecedented,” the company said. “It
resulted from a series of serious errors by the trial court, any
one of which compels reversal.”  Ford wasn’t denied any rights, James Lowe, the dealers’
lawyer, said in an interview Sept. 9. Corrigan’s treatment of
the suit by awarding damages to the class was “perfectly
appropriate,” he said.  The case is Westgate Ford Truck Sales Inc. v. Ford Motor
Co., CV 02-483526, Court of Common Pleas, Cuyahoga County, Ohio
(Cleveland).  For more, click here.  Health-Care Ruling May Delay Final Answer From U.S. High Court  A federal appeals court decision cast doubt on the prospect
that the U.S.  Supreme Court  will rule on the constitutionality
of President Barack Obama’s health-care overhaul before the 2012
elections.  The three-judge panel said Sept 8 that it didn’t yet have
the power to consider a challenge to the law’s requirement that
Americans, by 2014, either acquire health insurance or pay a
penalty. The court ruled that judicial review must wait for the
assessment of a fine -- something that wouldn’t occur until the
following year.  The health-care law, which has divided courts around the
country, was already in line for possible Supreme Court review
early next year, with a ruling likely in June. The Sept. 8
ruling adds a new legal wrinkle, raising a procedural issue that
might delay the ultimate outcome.  “It’s still the case that we will get some decision from
the United States Supreme Court the last week of this coming
June,” said Walter Dellinger, the former U.S. solicitor general
who filed a brief backing the law on behalf of congressional
Democrats. “But it is possible that ruling could be that no one
has the right to challenge this law until they’ve declined to
pay the penalty or sought a refund.”  Three federal appeals courts have now considered the law,
each reaching a different conclusion. A Cincinnati-based appeals
court upheld the law in June, calling it a valid use of
Congress’s power to regulate interstate commerce. An appeal in
that case is now before the Supreme Court.  An Atlanta-based court disagreed, upholding arguments by 26
states that Congress had exceeded its power under the commerce
clause. The U.S. Justice Department is scheduled to say by the
end of the month whether it will seek Supreme Court review of
that ruling or instead ask a larger panel of appellate judges to
reconsider.  The latest ruling, from the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals in Richmond,  Virginia , took a third approach. The panel
focused on a law, known as the Anti-Injunction Act, barring
lawsuits that seek to block the collection of federal taxes. The
measure says that “no suit for the purpose of restraining the
assessment or collection of any tax shall be maintained in any
court by any person.”  Writing for herself and one other panel member, Judge Diana
Gribbon Motz, said the law meant the court couldn’t hear a suit
filed by Liberty University, a Christian school in Lynchburg,
Virginia, founded by the late Rev. Jerry Falwell.  The cases are Liberty University v. Geithner, 10-02347, and
Commonwealth of Virginia v. Sebelius, 11-01057,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Fourth Circuit (Richmond).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Ex-Industrial Enterprises CEO Gets Up to 21 Years for Fraud  Former  Industrial Enterprises of America Inc. (IEAM)  Chief
Executive Officer James W. Margulies was sentenced to seven to
21 years in prison for his role in a $110 million securities
fraud.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Gregory Carro handed
down the sentence in Manhattan Sept. 9. Margulies, of Cleveland,
was convicted in July of grand larceny, scheming to defraud,
conspiracy, violation of general business law and falsifying
business records in what prosecutors called a “massive” pump-
and-dump scheme.  “This is basically a case of greed,” Carro said. He said
he wanted the sentence to serve as “a general deterrent that
will scream out from this courtroom that people like you are
going to be treated harshly.”  Margulies and another former Industrial Enterprises CEO,
John D. Mazzuto, were indicted in May 2010. Mazzuto pleaded
guilty and testified against Margulies, a lawyer, at trial.
Mazzuto hasn’t been sentenced.  “My actions were well-intended at the time,” Margulies
told Carro Sept. 9. “By the time I recognized the potential
harm of my actions, it was too late.”  He asked for probation, telling the judge that he needed to
be at home with his family, including a child who has special
needs. Carro rejected that request.  “It’s not my sentence that’s going to devastate these
children,” the judge said. “It is your actions.”  The case is People v. Margulies, 2503-2010, New York state
Supreme Court (Manhattan.)  Former Taiwan Semiconductor Manager Seeks 12-Month Sentence  A former Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. manager who
pleaded guilty to being part of an insider-trading scheme
involving  Primary Global Research LLC  is seeking a 12-month
sentence.  Manosha Karunatilaka, who pleaded guilty in May to taking
about $35,000 to pass inside tips about the company’s orders
while working as a Primary Global consultant, asked the
sentencing judge Sept. 9 to give him a split term of six months
in jail and six months of home confinement.  “I am a good person that made a terrible mistake and fell
from grace,” Karunatilaka said in a letter to U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff, which was attached to the sentencing request
filed in Manhattan federal court Sept. 9.  Prosecutors argued in a court filing that Karunatilaka
should get from 37 to 46 months in prison.  An analyst at an unnamed New York-based hedge fund which
used Primary Global’s services spoke to Karunatilaka frequently
from 2008 to 2010, prosecutors said in court papers. In May
2009, acting on Karunatilaka’s recommendation to bet that Taiwan
Semiconductor shares would fall, the fund made a profit of about
$1.7 million, the U.S. said.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-CR-32, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Alliance One, Deltafina Lose EU Appeals of Antitrust Fine  Universal Corp.’s Italian unit Deltafina and  Alliance One
International Inc. (AOI)  lost European Union court appeals against
antitrust fines totaling 54 million euros ($75 million) for
colluding on prices they paid tobacco growers.  The  EU General Court , the 27-nation region’s second-highest
tribunal, ruled Sept. 9 that the penalties were valid.  The European Commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator,
fined four companies, including two Alliance One units, 56
million euros for unlawfully rigging prices for more than six
years in a cartel that ended in 2002. Deltafina was fined 30
million euros while Alliance One was held jointly liable with
its two units for a 24 million-euro penalty.  The ruling follows decisions by the court in a similar case
concerning the Spanish market last year in which Deltafina  won  a
reduction in an 11.9 million-euro antitrust fine for fixing the
prices it paid Spanish growers for tobacco. Alliance One last
October lost an appeal over its fine in the cartel.  Representatives of the companies in the U.S. didn’t respond
to calls outside normal office hours.  The cases are: T-12/06, Deltafina v. European Commission;
T-25/06, Alliance One v. European Commission.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  On The Docket  Ex-Bear Stearns Fund Managers’ SEC Trial Set for February  Former Bear Stearns Cos. hedge-fund managers  Ralph Cioffi 
and  Matthew Tannin , acquitted in 2009 of criminal charges they
misled investors who lost $1.6 billion, are set to face trial in
February in a related civil case brought by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  U.S. District Judge Frederic Block in Brooklyn, New York,
set the trial date for Feb. 13 at a conference Sept. 9.  A federal jury in November 2009 found Cioffi and Tannin not
guilty of conspiracy and securities and wire fraud in the first
criminal trial stemming from a federal probe of the collapse of
the subprime-mortgage market. Cioffi, 55, was portfolio manager
for the  hedge funds  and Tannin was their chief operating
officer.  “We have had no discussions of substance,” John D.
Worland, a lawyer for the SEC, told Block when the judge asked
about the possibility of a settlement, which would make a trial
unnecessary.  Kevin Callahan , an SEC spokesman, and Marc Weinstein, a
lawyer for Cioffi at Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP in Manhattan,
declined to comment on the case. Nina Beattie, a lawyer for
Tannin at Brune & Richards LLP in Manhattan, also declined to
comment.  Cioffi and Tannin were indicted in June 2008, a year after
their hedge funds failed. Bear Stearns collapsed less than a
year after the funds failed, and was purchased by New York-based
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The SEC claims the two men misled investors about the
funds’ deepening financial troubles and their own holdings in
the investment pools. The regulator’s case requires a lower
standard of proof than a criminal conviction.  The civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Cioffi, 08-cv-2457, and the criminal case is U.S. v. Cioffi, 08-
CR-00415, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 