-- 
Jun Azumi’s Yen Pledge Challenged by Disappearing Yield Gap: Japan Credit

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i ,   H i r o k o   K o m i y a   a n d   K a z u m i   M i u r a
-- 
2011-09-13T04:35:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/jun-azumi-s-yen-pledge-challenged-by-disappearing-yield-gap-japan-credit.html
Finance Minister Jun Azumi’s pledge
to take “bold actions” on the yen may be put to the test after
a rally in overseas bonds reduced their yield advantage over
Japanese debt.  Yields on two-year U.S. securities fell to a 19-year low
relative to similar-maturity Japanese notes, a gap that has a
“relatively high” correlation with the dollar-yen rate,
according to Bank of  Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa. The
spread between Japanese and German debt is the narrowest since
at least 1990, as the euro plunged to the lowest level in a
decade against the yen.  Gains in Japanese bonds have been outpaced by those in the
U.S. and Germany amid speculation Greece will default and the
 Federal Reserve  will signal plans to buy longer-dated debt at a
meeting starting Sept. 20. Investor demand for a refuge has
intensified since last month, when Japan’s biggest currency
intervention in seven years failed to stop the yen from
appreciating to a postwar record.  “It’s hard to draw a picture of how the yen could weaken
unless international interest-rate spreads widen,” said  Tomoko Fujii , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in  Tokyo . “It’s also the fact that intervention
may not be enough to change the trend.”  Azumi ended his first Group of Seven meeting this past
weekend, saying he “gained an understanding” with his
counterparts on a pledge to stem the advance in his nation’s
currency.  ‘Bold Actions’  “We will continue to closely monitor developments and we
will take bold actions, especially against speculative
trading,” Azumi said after G-7 finance chiefs met in Marseille,
 France . “No one was opposed to my explanation.”  The spread between two-year Japanese and Treasury yields
shrank to 2.78 basis points on Sept. 9, the least since January
1992, when the difference reached minus 23 basis points. The gap
was at 5.8 basis points today, compared with the 11 basis-point
level on Aug. 4 when Japan intervened to weaken its currency for
the third time in the past 12 months. It was above 60 basis
points as recently as April.  The yield spread between  Germany  and Japan’s two-year notes
shrank to 25 basis points Sept. 9, the narrowest in Bloomberg
data going back to 1990, and down from 171 in May.  Damage to Exporters  Japanese data last week showed that gross domestic product
contracted in the second quarter by more than the government
estimated, highlighting the yen’s threat to an economy that’s
still reeling from the effects of a record earthquake in March.
A stronger currency reduces the value of overseas earnings at
exporters when repatriated.  Shares of Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s biggest carmaker,
have lost 18 percent this year compared with a 17 percent plunge
in the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  The yen’s gains cut Toyota’s first-quarter operating profit
by 50 billion yen ($649 million), the company said last month.
Every 1 yen gain against the dollar cuts Toyota’s operating
profit by 34 billion yen, according to the company’s full-year
outlook.  The rising yen boosted Japan’s overseas capital investment
compared with similar spending inside the country, with the
ratio climbing to 6.5 times in the fourth quarter, the highest
level since the three months ended in September 2008. It was 6.3
times in the January-March period.  ‘Way Out’  Bank of Japan  board members expressed concern that currency
gains may spur companies to move factories abroad, according to
minutes released yesterday of the central bank’s Aug. 4 meeting.  “Should domestic demand decrease while the strong yen
proceeds, it’s natural for Japanese companies to look to find a
way out in the overseas market,” said Satoru Ogasawara, vice
president of economics research in Tokyo at Credit Suisse Group
AG. “Facing a global economic slowdown, Japan needs fiscal and
monetary policies to avoid excessive gains in its currency.”  Japan sold 4.51 trillion yen on Aug. 4 to weaken the
currency, the nation’s biggest currency-market intervention on a
monthly basis since 2004. The yen went on to reach a postwar
high of 75.95 per dollar on Aug. 19. The yen advanced at least
0.7 percent against all 16 of its major peers in the past week,
and increased 2.5 percent, the best performer among 10 developed
nation-currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes.   Treasuries have surged, with 10-year yields reaching a
record low of 1.877 percent, amid speculation the U.S. central
bank will embark on more easing as early as this month.  Europe’s Debt Woes  Fed officials gather for a two-day meeting on Sept. 20 that
was extended from the one day originally scheduled to “allow a
fuller discussion” of the economy and the central bank’s
possible policy response.  Japan’s 10-year yield was unchanged at 0.995 percent today,
above its low on the year of 0.97 percent on Aug. 19.  Concern that European policy makers may fail to contain the
region’s debt crisis also increased demand for the yen as a
haven, driving the currency yesterday to the strongest since
June 2001 against the 17-nation euro.  Officials in German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government
are debating how to shore up the nation’s banks in the event
that  Greece  fails to meet the budget-cutting terms of its aid
package and is unable to get a bailout-loan payment, three
coalition officials said on Sept. 9. Lars Feld, a German
government adviser, said on Bloomberg Television yesterday that
the July decisions taken by European leaders “won’t suffice”
to save Greece from default.  ‘Downside Risks’  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
last week “downside risks” to the region’s economy have
intensified, sparking speculation the central bank may lower
rates after boosting them two times this year to 1.5 percent.  Credit-default swaps insuring Japan’s sovereign debt for
five years traded at 35.5 basis points more than Germany’s on
Sept. 12, compared with this year’s high of 72.5 basis points on
March 16, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Japan’s  central bank  kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a
range of between zero and 0.1 percent on Sept. 6. It also left
unchanged a 15 trillion-yen asset-purchase program that buys
 government bonds , corporate debt and stock funds.  “The BOJ will probably announce some measures to combat
gains in yen at its meeting in October,” said  Akito Fukunaga ,
chief rates strategist at the brokerage unit of Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc in Tokyo. “Given there is little room for Japan’s
short-term yield to fall, it’s impossible to widen the gaps
against U.S. and German debt. A strong yen is inevitable in the
long run.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net ;
Kazumi Miura in Tokyo at 
 kmiura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  