-- 
Kenyan Efforts to Boost Bank Lending Backfire as Curbs Lift Interest Rates

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-09-13T11:28:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/kenyan-rates-spike-to-31-as-central-bank-fights-with-lenders-on-credit.html
Kenya ’s Central Bank Governor
Njuguna Ndung’u is waging a battle with  Standard Bank  Group Ltd.
and other lenders to force them to boost loans to support a
drought-ravaged economy. His moves are having the opposite
effect.  The central bank in August restricted liquidity to
commercial banks to prevent them from speculating in the
currency market, forcing borrowing costs up by more than 20
percentage points within two weeks. The decision followed a
January rate cut even as inflation was accelerating.  Investors are losing faith in Ndung’u’s ability to manage
the crisis as a rift between the central bank and commercial
lenders widens, clouding the outlook for East  Africa ’s
wealthiest nation. The shilling today fell to a 17-year low
against the dollar.  “The biggest impact has been on confidence,” Yvonne Mhango, a sub-Saharan economist at Moscow-based investment bank
Renaissance Group said in a telephone interview from
Johannesburg. “We’ve seen quite a few policy movements and a
lack of clarity.”  Ndung’u, 52, views it differently. He says he’s penalizing
banks for borrowing cheaply from the central bank and investing
in higher-yielding Treasury bills rather than boosting lending.
He spoke in an interview at his office in the capital, Nairobi.  Drought Impact  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , Standard Bank and other banks
conduct analysis of Kenya “not because they have knowledge of
the economy, but they are writing to confirm the business model
that the bank wanted,” said Ndung’u, who pulled out a printout
of inflation graphs in the interview to make his point.  “In the short term no one wants to let go of their
portfolio,” he said. “The best option is to close any window
of arbitrage.”  The worst regional drought in 60 years has boosted food and
energy costs in East Africa’s largest economy and forced
thousands of Somalis to seek refuge from famine in neighboring
Kenya.  Kenyan inflation soared to 16.7 percent, more than triple
the central bank’s 5 percent goal, and the shilling has plunged
15 percent against the dollar this year, reaching a low of
95.80. Foreign investors more than doubled sales of equities in
the second quarter compared with the previous three months.  “The cost of living is rising dramatically, and the
government and central bank have a difficult task to control
that,” Robert Shaw, founder of the  Kenya Institute for Economic
Affairs,  said by phone from Nairobi. “It’s a very dangerous
time for the central bank governor and the commercial banks to
be at loggerheads.”  Credit Rating  Fitch Ratings  said on Aug. 12 that failure to rein in
inflation and stem the currency’s depreciation threatens Kenya’s
B+ credit rating. Drought and rising costs are “downside
risks” to the government’s goal of about 5.6 percent growth
this year, Finance Ministry Permanent Secretary Joseph Kinyua
said on Sept. 8.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s Kenyan unit raised its main borrowing rate
by 1 percentage point to 14.75 percent on Sept. 1, restricting
credit demand in a country where annual per capita income is
$780, according to the  World Bank .  Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB) 
and  NIC Bank Ltd. (NICB)  are among other lenders that have also revised
their base lending rates in the past two months.  The crisis is Ndung’u’s biggest challenge since he was
appointed to the position in 2007. As the only university
graduate out of a polygamist family of 19 children, the governor
defied the odds of poverty and overcrowded classes near his
birthplace of Murang’a, in central Kenya, to earn a doctorate in
economics from the University of Gothenburg in  Sweden .  Economics Professor  Before moving to the central bank he taught economics at
the University of Nairobi and was in charge of training at the
African Economic Research Consortium in Nairobi.  The back-and-forth began in January, when the central bank
unexpectedly cut its policy rate by 25 basis points to 5.75
percent even as forecasts showed inflation would soar. Investors
dumped Kenyan assets and the shilling began depreciating,
prompting the central bank to reverse the rate cut two months
later.  The action failed to stem the shilling’s slide. Suspecting
banks were speculating in the  currency market , the central bank
audited the foreign exchange transactions of commercial lenders
in June. Four banks had “very large overseas positions,” while
the volume of borrowing from the central bank had climbed, the
governor said on June 23.  ‘Pretty Risky’  Ndung’u responded by restricting liquidity. The bank
changed the calculation of the overnight discount window rate,
which lenders use to borrow from commercial banks, four times
within two months, raising it to 31.4 percent on Aug. 26.  “None of that was proven to be successful in preventing
the currency’s depreciation because policy was changed so
frequently,”  Razia Khan , head of Africa economic research at
 Standard Chartered , said in a phone interview from  London .
“Restricting access to borrowing is a pretty risky way of
effecting tightening.”  London-based Standard Chartered, the U.K.’s second-largest
bank by market value, isn’t in a position to comment on the
governor’s statement at this time, Annie Kinuthia, head of
corporate affairs for  East Africa , said in a phone interview
from Nairobi yesterday.  Johannesburg-based Standard Bank, the largest lender in
Africa, “has the greatest respect for the central bank governor
and his views,” the bank said in a statement. “We ensure that we
adhere and conform to both local and international requirements
on governance and compliance in Kenya.”  Liquidity Crunch  Recent steps taken by the government have helped to ease
the liquidity crunch, with interbank  interest rates  dropping to
5.66 percent as of Sept. 9. The central bank will have a special
monetary policy committee meeting tomorrow to review its action.  Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  held three meetings since
August with executives from lenders including  Kenya Commercial
Bank ,  Equity Bank Ltd. (EQBNK)  and Standard Chartered to help mend
rifts, a Treasury official, who declined to be identified
because the outcome of the discussions haven’t been made public,
said on Sept. 7.  President Mwai Kibaki said on Sept. 8 the government asked
the  International Monetary Fund  to provide funds to help boost
Kenya’s foreign currency reserves and offset the impact of the
sliding currency.  The central bank’s credibility in controlling inflation and
managing crises may be irreparably damaged, said Philippe de Pontet, a director at Washington-based Eurasia Group.  Even with the banks’ recent measures,“The incoherence of
its rate policy, fixation on speculation and seeming
unwillingness to take necessary steps to curb inflation calls
into question its overall strategy, or lack thereof,” he said
in a research note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 