-- 
Kenya Pipeline Explosion Kills 53 People After Oil Leaks Into Nairobi Slum

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a   a n d   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-09-12T14:41:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/kenya-pipeline-blast-may-have-killed-more-than-100-people-following-spill.html
At least 53 people died when an oil
pipeline operated by  Kenya  Pipeline Co. spilled fuel into a slum
in eastern Nairobi, causing an explosion, police and ambulance
officials said.  More than 100 people may have died in the blast that
occurred at Mukuru, about 11 kilometers (7 miles) east of the
city center, Fred Majiwa, a spokesman for St. John’s Ambulance,
said in a phone interview today.  “I was at Kenyatta Hospital myself and am able to confirm
seven are dead,” Majiwa said. “At the scene of the explosion, we
were represented by one of our workers and it was confirmed to
me it could be more than 100. Some of them are burned beyond
recognition.”  Kenya’s worst petroleum accident occurred in January 2009,
when 94 people died after a gasoline tanker burst into flames at
Molo in the Rift Valley province, about 167 kilometers northwest
of Nairobi. Kenyan police are working to ascertain the death
toll in the latest incident, spokesman  Eric Kiraithe  said.  “I have spoken to an officer on the ground and he has told
me they have confirmed 53 dead,” Kiraithe said by phone from
Nairobi. “There is not much more he can say because they are
struggling with the situation.”  Explosion  The explosion occurred this morning after petroleum
products spilled from a pipeline that runs through Mukuru into a
storm drain, Kenya Pipeline said in a statement read over the
phone by Kasuja Onyonyi, a spokesman for the company. The
pipeline, which links Nairobi to the port of  Mombasa , was shut
down after the spillage was detected, he said.  Some residents who went to the storm drain to scoop up the
fuel burned to death. A pile of charred bodies was still lying
in the storm drain, a two-meter (6.5-foot) wide trench, this
afternoon. Tin shacks on the periphery of the drain were burned
to the ground.  As Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  visited the scene of the
incident, rescue workers attended to burn victims, while some
residents screamed their demands for the government to
compensate them.  Kenya Pipeline said it has yet to establish the death toll,
the number of people injured and the value of property destroyed
in the incident.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  