-- 
Kuwait Pumps 2.9 Million Barrels of Oil a Day, Minister Says

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-09-12T13:24:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/kuwait-pumps-2-9-million-barrels-of-oil-a-day-minister-says-2-.html
Kuwait  “hopes” to pump at least
2.9 million barrels of oil a day for the rest of the month,
level with production so far in September, as exporters aim to
meet demand, the country’s top energy official said.  “Two weeks ago, we entered into 2.9 million barrels per
day,” Oil Minister Mohammad al-Busairy said today in  Kuwait
City . “We’re heading towards 3 million barrels.”  Kuwait now produces 3 percent of world oil production and
more than 9 percent of OPEC’s output, which “will make Kuwait’s
voice stronger in OPEC and its negotiation power will be
strengthened,” al-Busairy said  Global markets are “very thirsty” for crude, leading
producers such as Kuwait,  Saudi Arabia  and other  Persian Gulf
states  to pump near their maximum capacity, he said.  “We contributed to stabilizing prices through output,
without flooding the market,” al-Busairy said, referring to
those producers. Consumer demand calls for 1.5 million to 2
million barrels a day of additional oil supply, he said.
“Production by some non-OPEC members has started to decline so
there is a need to compensate this shortage,” he said.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, the
producers’ group of which Kuwait is a member, cut global oil
demand estimates for this year and next for a second month on
threats to the global economy. Demand will increase to 87.99
million barrels a day this year and by 1.4 percent to 89.26
million a day in 2012, according to the 12-member group’s
monthly market report published today.  Brent oil futures surged as high as $127.02 a barrel in
April following the halt in  Libya ’s 1.6 million barrels of daily
output because of an armed rebellion. Prices have since dropped
12 percent, with Brent trading today at $111.  Kuwait has a production capacity of 3.05 million barrels a
day, the oil minister said in an interview last month. The
country produced at least 2.8 million barrels a day in August,
he said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 