-- 
Nadal Faces Novak Djokovic’s Dominance in Replay of U.S. Open Tennis Final

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-12T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/nadal-faces-djokovic-s-dominance-in-replay-of-u-s-open-tennis-final.html
For  Rafael Nadal  to retain his U.S.
Open title, he’ll have to do something he hasn’t done all year:
beat Novak Djokovic.  Djokovic, the top seed at the tennis season’s final Grand
Slam event, plays second-seeded Nadal this afternoon in the
first U.S. Open finals meeting of a No. 1 and No. 2 seed in 15
years. Djokovic, from  Serbia , was seeded third last year when
Nadal, from  Spain , beat him in four sets to claim his first U.S.
Open title and complete the career Grand Slam. Their meeting
today marks the first men’s final rematch at the tournament
since 1988.  Had he won the Australian Open in January, Nadal would have
held all four Grand Slams at the same time. Instead, Djokovic
took the season’s first Grand Slam title and went on to become
the sport’s dominant player, also winning Wimbledon, stringing
together a 43-match victory streak and posting a 5-0 record
against Nadal -- all in tournament finals -- while passing him
in the ATP World Tour rankings.  “He’s obviously the favorite for the final, and I know I
have to do something better than the other matches to try to
change the situation,” Nadal said at a news conference after
his semifinal win over fourth-seeded  Andy Murray  of Britain.  The 6-4, 6-2, 3-6, 6-2 win over Murray took 3 hours, 24
minutes, about 90 minutes less than Djokovic needed to survive a
five-set semifinal with  Roger Federer , for the second straight
year. Djokovic rallied from a two-set deficit and withstood two
match points to eliminate the five-time champion from
 Switzerland , 6-7 (7-9), 4-6, 6-3, 6-2, 7-5.  One-Two Meetings  No. 1 seeded  Pete Sampras  topped Michael Chang in the 1996
U.S. Open final, the last time the top two seeds met for the
title. The last time the championship match featured the same
players in back-to-back years was 1987-88, when  Ivan Lendl  and
Mats Wilander split their meetings. If Djokovic gains such a
split, it will be his fourth Grand Slam title, having also won
the Australian Open in 2008.  “I know that I have a game that is good enough to win
against him,” Djokovic said at a news conference after the
semifinal win. “I proved that this year in three different
surfaces, so I believe that I have a good chance.”  The 24-year-old Djokovic has taken 11 of 14 sets against
Nadal this year, with wins on hard courts, clay and grass.  “He’s playing with high confidence,” Nadal said. “I am
not very happy about my mental performance against him this year
because for moments I didn’t really believe 100 percent. That’s
what I’m going to try to change for Monday.”  All-Time Champions  Nadal, who won this year’s French Open, is seeking his 11th
career major championship, which would tie him for fourth on the
men’s list with  Bjorn Borg  and  Rod Laver , behind Federer (16),
Sampras (14) and  Roy Emerson  (12).  The men’s final was pushed back from yesterday -- the
tournament’s fourth straight Monday finish -- because of delays
and cancellations caused by rain earlier this week. Samantha
Stosur won the women’s championship yesterday, beating Serena
Williams 6-2, 6-3.  Although he trails the Spaniard 16-12 in their all-time
series, Djokovic’s 5-0 record this year includes hard court
Masters series victories in Miami and  Indian Wells ,  California ,
where he came back from a set down against Nadal both times.
They’ll also be playing on hard courts today in Arthur Ashe
Stadium at the National Tennis Center.  With the win, Djokovic would become the sixth men’s player
in the Open era of professional tennis that began in 1968 to win
three majors in a season. Nadal did it last year, joining
Federer, Wilander,  Jimmy Connors  and Rod Laver.  ‘Best Year’  “It’s obvious that this is the best year of my career, by
far,” said Djokovic, who last month became the first player to
win five ATP World Tour Masters titles in one season. “The
confidence level that is very high at this moment helps me get
into these big matches and go for shots that maybe in some
situations I wouldn’t go for in past years.”  Nadal is attempting to become the eighth repeat U.S. Open
winner since 1968, joining Federer, Patrick Rafter, Sampras,
Stefan Edberg, Lendl, Connors and  John McEnroe .  Connors was the last player to beat the same opponent in
consecutive U.S. Open men’s finals, against Lendl in 1982-83.
That’s a feat Nadal said he knows won’t be easy against
Djokovic.  “The only way to beat him is believe in the victory, play
aggressive, and play every moment perfect,” Nadal said. “So
that’s what I have to try.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson at the National Tennis Center in New York, at
   mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski at the National Tennis Center in New York, at
   matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 