-- 
Nasar: Fisher, the Crash and an ‘Economics of the Whole’

-- B y   S y l v i a   N a s a r
-- 
2011-09-12T00:08:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/nasar-fisher-the-crash-and-economics-of-the-whole-.html
For Yale’s Irving Fisher, inventor
of the Rolodex and America’s economic oracle, the madness of
World War I was epitomized by his daughter Margaret’s descent
into insanity after her fiancé was drafted. When a bizarre
surgery touted as a miracle cure killed her, Fisher saw Margaret
as another of the war’s senseless casualties, and rededicated
himself to finding remedies for the nation’s economic and other
ills.  Fisher was convinced that the loss of so many lives and
the blighting of so many more would lead to a greater public
commitment to protecting and extending life. He co-authored a
guide to healthy living, “ How to Live ,” that sold 15 million
copies. He championed the cause of “national vitality” by
promoting, among other causes, the League of Nations,
Prohibition, eugenics, environmental conservation, limits on
immigration, civil rights for African Americans and, notably,
national health insurance.  But perhaps his most lasting contribution to the nation’s
vitality was his role in the development of an “economics of the
whole,” or macroeconomics.  ‘The Living Age’  Trained in mathematics and natural sciences during the
Progressive Era, the Connecticut Yankee and preacher’s son had
gravitated to economics out of a desire for “more contact with
the living age.” Initially inclined to believe that all attempts
to interfere in markets did more harm than good, Fisher lost his
faith in strict laissez faire in the course of a successful
battle with tuberculosis, the disease that had killed his father.
Overcoming TB convinced him that nations as well as individuals
need no longer let nature take its course. When markets failed,
as they did in financial panics, intervention might improve the
outcome.  By the Panic of 1907, Fisher had concluded that most
extreme fluctuations in economic activity resulted from monetary
disturbances. He had identified too much money as the source of
inflationary booms, too little as the source of deflationary
depressions.  By tracing seemingly unrelated economic pathologies to a
single variable, money, he had identified a potential cure:
Stabilize the value of money -- that is, avoid inflation or
deflation -- and so stabilize economic activity. This was a cure
that government, which issues money and determines its value,
could dispense.  ‘Permanently High Plateau’  The acute economic disorders that erupted after the war
made monetary reform Fisher’s Holy Grail. Bubbles, panics,
hyperinflations and depressions were not acts of nature, and
could not be left to nature’s whims without jeopardizing the
future of free markets and democracy.  After the steep but brief recession of 1920-21, the rest of
the Twenties were golden. Three downturns in the decade were so
brief and shallow that most Americans weren’t aware of them. The
newly created  Federal Reserve  seemed to confirm Fisher’s theory
that avoiding inflation and deflation would prevent wild swings.
His personal fortunes had flourished. By the time he turned 60
in 1929, Fisher was a director at Remington Rand, an investor in
a half dozen start-ups and the head of a successful forecasting
service. When he addressed a group of business executives in
mid-October of that year, he told them confidently that stock
prices had reached “what looks like a permanently high plateau.”  Shortly thereafter, the stock market crashed and the entire
U.S. financial sector began collapsing like a house of cards. In
the following months, when Fisher’s ideas and energy were most
needed, he had lost not only his fortune, but his credibility.  His over-optimism had made him a figure of ridicule. The
media skewered him for “always insisting that all was well and
talking of prosperity, a new era and increased efficiency of
production.” His proposals for repairing the damage were sound,
and have become conventional wisdom today. But then no one was
listening anymore. His son recalled hearing two strangers on a
train say of his father, “Gosh, he’s supposed to know all the
answers, and look how he got burned.”  The Bon Vivant  Fisher’s unlikely ally in promoting international debt
relief and managed money instead of strict adherence to the gold
standard was John  Maynard Keynes , now a City speculator, part
time Cambridge don, and bon vivant who is said to have quipped
on his deathbed that his only regret in life was not drinking
more champagne.  World War I had also focused Keynes’s attention on the
systemic forces that caused growth to proceed in bursts
interrupted by slumps. Like Fisher, he had argued that economic
and financial interdependence were the sine qua non of the
prewar prosperity and that political stability required both
victors and vanquished to cooperate to stabilize currencies and
revive trade and lending. And like Fisher he was convinced that
governments could no longer leave extreme inflation and
unemployment to cure themselves.  Keynes, too, was blindsided by the 1929 crash. The damage
to his personal finances was so great that he was forced to put
some of his beloved Impressionist paintings up for sale.
Fortunately there were no takers. Keynes was able to recoup his
losses within a few years by scooping up depressed U.S. bank
stocks in 1936 and hanging on to them when the market collapsed
again in 1937.  Keynes sounded the most optimistic when things looked
bleakest. While others were proclaiming the end of the West,
Keynes used his newspaper columns, radio talks and newsreel
interviews to promote monetary stimulus to fight the slump. He
reassured all those who were, as the historian Arnold Toynbee
observed, “seriously contemplating and frankly discussing the
possibility that the Western system of society might break down
and cease to work.”  An Easy Fix  Instead, Keynes told his readers, the economy was suffering
from a mechanical breakdown - “starter trouble,” as he blithely
put it in one column -- for which there was a (relatively) easy
fix. Falling prices made it impossible for farmers and
businesses to cover their costs, so they were forced to cut back,
which made prices fall even further. All the government had to
do was to pump up the  money supply  until prices started rising
again, reversing the deflation.  Keynes’s advice wasn’t followed either. When too little,
too late monetary policy failed to arrest the Great Depression,
Keynes struck out in a new direction. In 1934, at a meeting in
 New York , Keynes gave a paper arguing that under certain
conditions cheap money would not prevent unemployment from
persisting in a free market. The economy could stagnate unless
government stimulated private investment and consumption with
tax cuts and public works. The paper was a preview of “The
General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money,” which
appeared two years later.  Fisher and Keynes suffered the fate of many innovators. The
conviction required to adopt their unorthodox advice simply
didn’t exist when it might have prevented the Depression from
becoming “great.” But for Keynes there would be one more chance
when World War II broke out -- and memories of the failure to
promote economic recovery in 1919 made  Winston Churchill  and
 Franklin D. Roosevelt  determined to do better than last time.  (Sylvia Nasar, a former New York Times economics reporter
and the author of “A Beautiful Mind,” teaches journalism at
 Columbia University . This is the fourth in a five-part excerpt
of her new book, “Grand Pursuit: The Story of Economic Genius,”
to be published by  Simon & Schuster  on Sept. 13.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Sylvia Nasar at  szn1@columbia.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin
 at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 