-- 
Natural Gas Drops for Second Day in New York on Moderating Weather Outlook

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-09-12T15:56:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/natural-gas-drops-for-second-day-in-new-york-on-moderating-weather-outlook.html
Natural gas futures declined for a
second day in New York on forecasts of cooler-than-normal
weather that may limit demand for the fuel from  power plants .  Gas futures dropped as much as 2.3 percent after companies
including Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland,
predicted normal or below-normal temperatures in the eastern
U.S. and parts of the Midwest through Sept. 21. The remnants of
Tropical Storm Nate were over  Mexico , bypassing gas platforms
and pipelines in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico.  “We have limited seasonal demand coming up, and there’s
not really a threat of tropical disruptions in the Gulf,” said
 Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford, Connecticut. “The gas market has weak underlying
fundamentals.”  Natural gas for October delivery fell 0.5 cent to $3.91 per
million British thermal units at 11:47 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Gas has declined 11 percent this year.  The high temperature in New York on Sept. 17 may be 69
degrees Fahrenheit (21 Celsius), 6 below normal, according to
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania. The high in
 Chicago  may also be 69 degrees.  Cooling demand in the U.S. may be 26 percent below normal
from Sept. 18 through Sept. 22, according to Weather Derivatives
in Belton, Missouri.  Power plants use about 30 percent of the nation’s gas
supplies, according to the Energy Department.  Tropical Storm  Nate weakened as it moved over Mexico with heavy rains and
has been downgraded to a post-tropical system, the U.S. National
Hurricane Center said. The remnants of the storm were about 75
miles (120 kilometers) west-southwest of Tuxpan, Mexico, with
maximum winds of 30 mph, the center said in its final advisory
for the storm.  The Atlantic hurricane season runs from June 1 to Nov. 30.
The season has yielded 15 tropical systems, including Tropical
Storm Lee, which shut as much as 55 percent of Gulf of Mexico
natural gas output when it passed through the region.  The Gulf is home to 6.5 percent of U.S. natural gas
production, according to the Energy Department.  “We continue to see fundamental weakness in the near term
as Tropical Storm Nate missed the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and the
summer cooling season is winding down,” said  Tim Evans , an
energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in  New York , in a
note to clients today.  Gas futures may rally to $4.50 or higher in the months
ahead as traders focus on winter heating demand, Evans said.  Marketed gas production will average a record 65.79 billion
cubic feet a day in 2011, up from 65.51 billion estimated in
August, the Energy Department said in its monthly  Short-Term
Energy Outlook , released Sept. 7 in  Washington . Output averaged
61.83 billion cubic feet a day in 2010.  Gas prices at the benchmark  Henry Hub  in Erath, Louisiana,
will average $4.20 per million Btu this year, down from last
month’s estimate of $4.24, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  