-- 
New York Times Co.’s Boston Globe Begins Charging Readers for Web Access

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-09-12T10:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/new-york-times-co-s-boston-globe-begins-charging-online-readers.html
New York Times Co. (NYT) , publisher of
the namesake newspaper, will announce today that it’s starting a
new website to generate revenue from online readers of its
Boston Globe newspaper.  Until now, readers have been able to freely access content
from the Boston Globe on  Boston.com , a news and information
website also owned by Times Co. Visitors to Boston.com will now
have access to a limited number of stories from the Boston Globe
newspaper, while the remainder will be available only to
subscribers on BostonGlobe.com, the company said.  “The Boston Globe has never had its own digital front
door,” Publisher Christopher M. Mayer said in an interview.
“It’s always been integrated into Boston.com.” With the two
websites operating separately, he said, “we’ve got an
opportunity with different audiences and different brands.”  It will cost $3.99 a week to subscribe to the newspaper’s
digital content on BostonGlobe.com. Subscribers to the print
edition won’t have to pay for digital access. Summaries on the
front page of the website can be seen free of charge, and
customers who read stories through social media and search will
receive the first click for free.  Boston.com, which is ad-supported and averages about 6
million unique visitors per month, will remain free, the company
said.  Limited Access  With news consumers shifting from print to digital
platforms, Times Co. introduced a similar Web-based subscription
model in March for the New York Times newspaper, which requires
online readers who view more than 20 articles per month to pay
for access to content on  NYTimes.com . Such so-called metered
access won’t be an element of the BostonGlobe.com site,
according to Mayer. Times Co., in an earlier statement, said
224,000 customers had subscribed to the NYTimes.com service by
the end of June.  “I think what you’ll see around the country is most
newspapers will adopt some kind of pay wall that is similar to
what the Times, and now the Globe, have put in place,”  John Morton , a  Silver Spring , Maryland-based newspaper industry
consultant, said in an interview. “They all now realize they
made a grievous mistake years ago when they put everything on
the Web for free.”  Times Co. fell 25 cents, or 3.4 percent, to $7.18 in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has declined 27
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 