-- 
New York City Police to Keep Terror Checkpoints Through Evening Rush Hour

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-09-12T19:24:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/new-york-city-police-to-keep-terror-checkpoints-through-evening-rush-hour.html
The  New York  City Police Department
will keep additional security measures such as vehicle
checkpoints and increased bag checks at subway stations in place
through the evening, a spokesman said.  The department will reassess security after the evening
rush,  Paul Browne , a spokesman for the NYPD, said in an e-mail.
The measures were put into place last week after reports of a
credible, uncorroborated threat that al-Qaeda might be plotting
an assault in the city around the 10th anniversary of the 2001
terrorist attacks.  Concrete blocks were placed at intersections in Lower
Manhattan to prevent traffic from getting close to the World
Trade Center site where U.S. President  Barack Obama  and ex-
President George W. Bush attended yesterday’s memorial service,
and metal barricades were erected along streets to keep cars
from stopping.  Other measures included extended shifts for police officers
through today, stepped-up monitoring of bridges and tunnels,
patrols outside places of worship and government buildings and
bomb sweeps of public garages.  The Port Authority of New York and  New Jersey  is “still at
a state of heightened security,” said Ron Marsico, a spokesman
for the agency, which operates the city’s airports, the Holland
and Lincoln tunnels, the George Washington Bridge and the PATH
train system.  A decade ago yesterday, a group of men tied to the
terrorist group hijacked four airliners, flying two into the
World Trade Center towers in New York and a third into the
Pentagon in Arlington, Virginia, and crashing a fourth in
Shanksville,  Pennsylvania , after passengers thwarted the
hijackers. Almost 3,000 people were killed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  