-- 
Nigeria Faces Highest Yield at Auction Since June on Bets of Rate Increase

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-09-13T11:09:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/nigeria-faces-highest-yield-at-auction-since-june-on-interest-rate-bets.html
Nigeria faces its highest borrowing
costs at an auction since June as yields climb on speculation
the central bank will raise  interest rates  to contain inflation.  Africa’s biggest oil producer will offer 70 billion naira
($450.1 million) of bonds tomorrow, including 25 billion naira
of notes due 2014. Yields on the three-year debt have risen 37
basis points, or 0.37 percentage points, since the last auction
on Aug. 17 to 10.82 percent yesterday, according to data from
the  Financial Markets Dealers Association ’s website.  Central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi, who has raised the
benchmark rate four times this year to 8.75 percent, is ready to
keep increasing it if inflation doesn’t remain below 10 percent,
he said in a Sept. 7 interview. Prices increased an annual 9.4
percent in July, the first time they were below 10 percent since
May 2008.  “We see the yields at the auction printing around current
market levels, with a possible moderate premium,”  Samir Gadio ,
a London-based emerging-markets strategist at Standard Bank
Group Ltd., said in an e-mailed reply to questions yesterday.
“The market is still concerned that the ongoing disinflation
process is not sustainable and has not fully re-priced its
consumer price index expectations.”  Currency Protection  The central bank will probably tighten monetary policy to
stem pressure on the currency even as the inflation rate is
likely to decline from 9.4 percent in July, Gadio said. Inflows
from the Federation Account Allocation Committee, which
disburses funds to the federal, state and local governments,
will support the level of demand for the bonds in coming days,
he said.  Nigeria’s naira, which has slipped 1.6 percent since August
in interbank trading, depreciated 0.1 percent to 155.5 per
dollar as of 11:55 a.m. in Lagos, the weakest intraday level
since Sept. 9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nigeria  is tightening monetary policy as other central
banks from  Brazil  to  Turkey  are maintaining or cutting rates to
bolster growth amid a global economic slowdown. Investors are
boosting bets that  South Africa ’s central bank will cut its
benchmark rate from a 30-year low with forward-rate agreements
starting in March, used to lock in borrowing costs, falling to a
record-low 5.13 percent on Sept. 8.  The nation’s Debt Management Office will also sell 25
billion naira of 10.7 percent bonds maturing 2018 at its monthly
auction and 20 billion naira of debt due 2015. The Abuja-based
National Bureau of Statistics is scheduled to release August
inflation data on Sept. 16.  “We remain of the opinion that short-dated paper is
vulnerable to rate rises,” CSL analysts including London-based
Guy Czartoryski, said yesterday in an e-mailed note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  