-- 
Nintendo to Add Features to 3-D Player, Target Women to Spur Sales of 3DS

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 
2011-09-13T07:58:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/nintendo-3ds-sales-trail-target-as-boost-from-price-cuts-fades.html
Nintendo Co., the world’s biggest
maker of game players, will add functions to its 3DS and target
women to spur demand, after sales of the device slumped and led
the company to slash its profit forecast to a 26-year low.  The upgrades will include a feature to allow users to
record movies in 3-D, President Satoru Iwata said at a briefing
in  Tokyo  today. The Kyoto-based company also plans to unveil a
pink version of the product next month to attract female
customers and introduce a tennis game next year starring
Nintendo’s flagship character Mario, he said.  The features may test Iwata’s ability to restore investor
confidence in a stock that’s tumbled more than 80 percent since
its 2007 high as users turn to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and Facebook
Inc.’s online service to play games. Sales of the 3DS will
probably miss Nintendo’s annual target this year even after
prices were slashed by as much as 40 percent last month,
according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Today’s announcements were disappointing relative to what
the market was hoping for,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees
about $600 million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management
Co. “The new Mario titles and the additional movie-camera
function aren’t enough for the company to meet its targets
during the  Christmas shopping season .”  Nintendo fell 5.1 percent to 12,320 yen at the 3:10 p.m.
close in Osaka trading, extending this year’s drop to 48
percent. The stock, which climbed to as high as 71,900 yen in
2007 when the motion-sensing Wii console was selling out in
stores, fell to a seven-year low of 10,900 yen last month.  3DS Target  3DS sales will probably be 16 percent shy of the company’s
annual target of 16 million units even after Nintendo cut
prices, based on the average estimate of four analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg News. The game maker may only sell 2.5 million 3DS
players halfway into the fiscal year, which ends March 31,
according to  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)   Yasuhiro Minagawa, a spokesman for Nintendo, declined to
comment on the possibility 3DS sales will miss the target.  Analysts at Macquarie and Cosmo Securities Co. said before
today’s event that the creator of the “Super Mario Bros.”
franchise should introduce more major titles or consider
developing games for social networks.  ’Monster Hunter’  The game maker showed 43 titles for its 3DS and other
consoles at the conference. Among titles to be released for the
handheld include Capcom Co.’s “the Monster Hunter 3 (Tri) G”
in December and the "Paper Mario" in 2012, Nintendo said.  Capcom 
said it will also develop the “Monster Hunter 4” for the 3DS.  Nintendo will introduce a slide  pad  to allow users to play
the “Monster Hunter” easier for 1,500 yen in December, it said
on its website today.  Nintendo’s 3DS conference precedes this week’s annual Tokyo
Game Show in Japan, where about 200 game-related companies plan
to showcase their products.  Sony Corp. (6758)  plans to unveil details
of its sales strategy for the new PS Vita handheld player on
Sept. 14.  The company, which sells the 3DS for $170 in the U.S. and
15,000 yen ($195) in Japan, is also losing customers because
smartphones offer cheap and good enough titles to attract adults
who play games occasionally, said  Michael Pachter , an analyst at
Wedbush Securities Inc. in  Los Angeles . Nintendo 3DS games start
at about 4,000 yen, while games for the iPhone sell for a
fraction of that price and are sometimes free.  $0.99 Downloads  “They can’t compete with free or $0.99 downloads,” said
Pachter, who has a “neutral” rating on the stock. He estimates
3DS sales will only reach 10 million units this fiscal year and
Sony’s introduction of its next portable player, the PlayStation
Vita, outside of  Japan  in 2012 will probably further erode
Nintendo’s market share, Pachter said.  The 3DS didn’t start out as a flop. On its launch in Tokyo
late February, the product drew lines of as many as 2,000 people
outside Yodobashi Camera Co.’s store in the electronics shopping
district of Akihabara. In March, Nintendo said the 3DS’s first
day of sales in the U.S. were higher than the day-one results of
any previous Nintendo handheld. The result: 3.6 million units
were sold worldwide by the end of March.  Then demand collapsed, with sales tumbling 80 percent to
710,000 in the following three-month period, prompting the
company in July to announce price cuts and an 82 percent
reduction in its full-year profit forecast. Iwata said at the
time the company cut the price so soon after its introduction
because of lower-than-expected demand for the 3-D device.  Wearing Off  The boost from the price cuts may be wearing off. In Japan,
the company sold 55,264 units in the week ended Sept. 4, down 74
percent from three weeks earlier, when the price cuts went into
effect, according to research firm Enterbrain Inc. In the U.S.,
Nintendo’s biggest market, August sales were estimated below
projections for Japan, according to research firm NPD Group.  “It’s difficult to achieve 16 million, especially
considering” the sales figure in the U.S., said David Gibson, a
Tokyo-based analyst at Macquarie, who has a “neutral” rating
on the stock. He expects Nintendo to sell 14.5 million units
this fiscal year.  While Nintendo plans to release the “Super Mario 3DLand”
and “ Mario Kart ” for the 3DS later this year, the lack of
bestselling titles starring Nintendo’s iconic Italian plumber or
Pokemon characters may have undermined demand, said Satoru Kikuchi, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. The 3DS is unlikely to
repeat the success of Nintendo’s DS handheld because adults are
more likely to play games on smartphones now, Kikuchi said.  “Nintendo should consider embracing social networks, even
though it’s going to be a latecomer,”  Koichi Ogawa , a portfolio
manager at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. in Tokyo, said before
today’s event. “Even with the price cut, it’s hard to lure
consumers as various platforms including the iPhone and iPad are
available now. Those people won’t use 3DS to play cards or mah-
jongg.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  