-- 
Singapore Stocks: CapitaLand, Noble, Tiger Airways, Yangzijiang

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-09-12T09:41:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/noble-olam-international-otto-marine-tiger-airways-singapore-equities.html
Singapore ’s Straits Times Index
sank 2.9 percent to 2,743.58 at the close, the biggest decline
since Aug. 19. All but one stock in the index of 30 companies
dropped.  The following shares were among the most active in the
market. Stock symbols are in parentheses after the company name.  Commodity suppliers: The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB
Index, which tracks prices of 19 commodities from copper to
corn, dropped 1.7 percent in New York on Sept. 9, its first
decline in three days.    Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL)  , a Hong Kong-based supplier of
energy, food and mining commodities, tumbled 6.3 percent to
S$1.50.  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM)  , a Singapore-based
supplier of agricultural commodities, fell 2.9 percent to
S$2.37.  Developers: UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. said it is
maintaining its “market weight” rating on property stocks.
 Home prices  will fall between eight percent and 10 percent in
the next year amid a deteriorating macroeconomic environment,
the  investment company  said.  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL)  , Southeast Asia’s biggest
developer by market value, slumped 4.9 percent to S$2.51.  City
Developments Ltd. (CIT)  , Singapore’s second-largest
homebuilder, dropped 3.4 percent to S$9.81.  Keppel Land Ltd. (KPLD) 
, the real estate unit of Keppel Corp. (KEP SP),
declined 2.7 percent to S$2.87.  Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd. (TGR)  , the budget carrier
partly-owned by Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA SP), lost 1.1
percent to 91 Singapore cents. The company said it filled 76
percent of its seats in August, compared with 85 percent a year
earlier as it transported 22 percent fewer passengers during the
period. Separately, Andrew David has been appointed chief
executive officer of Tiger Airways Australia Pty Ltd., it said.  Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Holdings Ltd. (YZJ)  : China’s
third-largest shipyard outside state control declined 3.3
percent to S$1.015. Kim Eng Holdings Ltd. lowered its rating on
the stock to “hold” from “buy,” saying the outlook for
shipbuilding orders has become increasingly negative amid global
economic uncertainty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 