-- 
Noda Appoints Second Japanese Industry Minister Since Taking Power

-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-09-12T07:36:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/noda-appoints-second-japanese-industry-minister-since-taking-power.html
Yukio Edano, the face of  Japan ’s
response to the March 11 earthquake and nuclear disaster, was
named head of the ministry responsible for regulating atomic
power in the country.  Edano was appointed after Yoshio Hachiro stepped down from
the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry on Sept. 10,
following criticism for describing the evacuation areas around
the wrecked Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant as “towns of
death.” Hachiro also joked about radiation.  As chief of staff in the last government Edano led daily
briefings on the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis, the
world’s worst since Chernobyl 25 years ago.  “Picking Edano was inevitable because there are no other
people as well informed on the nuclear crisis,” Shinichi
Nishikawa, a professor of politics at Meiji University, said
today by phone before Edano’s appointment was confirmed.  Since breaking the Liberal  Democratic Party ’s half-century
grip on power two years ago, Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s
Democratic Party of Japan has chosen three prime ministers and
four finance chiefs, while other Cabinet officers have been
forced to step down for inappropriate remarks.  Hachiro came under criticism for his comments and actions
after a visit to Fukushima on Sept. 8 to inspect progress in
recovery from the nuclear crisis.  At one point he rubbed the sleeve of his protective
coverall against a reporter saying, “Do you want some
radiation?” local media including the Nikkei newspaper reported
Sept. 10.  Disappointing Remarks  “Disappointed, that is the only word I can say,”  Goshi
Hosono , minister in charge of the response to the Fukushima
nuclear crisis, told reporters yesterday when asked about
Hachiro’s resignation. “We don’t have time for these kinds of
setbacks as we try to contain the accident and set the new
 energy policy .”  Noda’s predecessor Naoto Kan was criticized for comments by
Ryu Matsumoto, who quit one week into the job of reconstruction
minister after publicly chastising the governor of tsunami-
devastated  Miyagi prefecture  for being late to a meeting.  Matsumoto ordered the media present not to report the
incident, before a video of the exchange was posted on the
Internet.  The earthquake and tsunami caused the meltdown of three
reactors at the Fukushima plant, leading to radiation leakage
and the evacuation of almost 160,000 people in a 20-kilometer
(12-mile) zone. The earthquake and tsunami left almost 20,000
people dead or missing.  Public Concerns  Nuclear power provided about 30 percent of the electricity
in the world’s third-biggest economy before March 11. About 80
percent of Japan’s 54 reactors are now offline, with more
shutting for scheduled maintenance in the months ahead.  Noda has tried to convince the public that despite the
Fukushima crisis, atomic power is needed to save the economy.  Industry leaders have said they may shift production
overseas if power supplies aren’t stable, threatening an
economic recovery. Japan’s gross domestic product shrank at an
annualized 2.1 percent rate in the three months ended June 30,
the Cabinet office said Sept. 9.  With the majority of opinion polls showing Japan’s public
opposes nuclear power, Noda needs to convince his electorate so-
called stress tests of reactors will make them safe to restart.  Sixty-eight percent of respondents to an Asahi newspaper
poll published on Aug. 8 said they wanted Kan’s successor to
continue his policy of phasing out atomic energy.  Noda’s approval rating was 65 percent in a poll published
Sept. 4 by the Yomiuri newspaper, the country’s biggest. The
Nikkei newspaper and  Kyodo News  rated his popularity at 67
percent and 63 percent respectively. None of the polls gave a
margin of error.  “Japan has had sloppy trade ministers who lack
leadership,” said Minoru Morita, a Tokyo-based independent
political commentator. “That post is responsible for ending the
nuclear disaster and boosting the economy. We need strong
leadership there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in 東京 at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  