-- 
Norway Conservatives, Labor Gain in Vote

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-09-12T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/norway-conservatives-labor-gain-in-vote.html
The  Conservative Party  and the
Labor Party gained in  Norway ’s municipal elections, as voters
shunned the anti-immigration Progress Party after a shortened
campaign in the aftermath of the July 22 terror attacks.  The Conservatives got 27.6 percent of the votes nationwide
yesterday, up from 19.3 percent in local elections in 2007,
according to a  count  of 70 percent of the votes by the Oslo-
based Local Government and Regional Development Ministry. Prime
Minister Jens Stoltenberg’s Labor, which leads a ruling national
coalition, received 32.1 percent, up from 29.6 percent in 2007.
The Progress Party fell to 11.2 percent from 17.5 percent.  Campaigning was delayed for two weeks after Anders Behring Breivik bombed the premier’s office and shot 69 people at a
 Labor Party  youth camp near Oslo, which the 32-year-old former
Progress Party member said was done to inflict the “greatest
possible loss” to Labor. It wasn’t immediately clear if the
Conservative-Progress coalition would retain power in the
Norwegian capital.  “It seems like the Progress Party is suffering because of
what happened on July 22,” Johannes Bergh, a political
scientist at the Institute for Social Research in Oslo, said
before the results. “The fact that you can’t talk about
immigration now, the way that they did before the terror attacks,
is something that is a problem for the Progress Party.”  The local election, which covers 429 municipalities, has no
effect on representatives in parliament or the basis for the
government.  Parliamentary  elections are scheduled for 2013.  Halvorsen Resigns  The Socialist Left received 4.1 percent, while the Center
Party was backed by 7.2 percent, the incomplete results showed.
The  Liberal Party  received 6.3 percent of the votes and the
Christian Democrats got 5.9 percent.  Kristin Halvorsen, head of the Socialist Left and the
current education minister, announced in a live broadcast that
she would step down next year to “renew” the party.  Backing for the Conservative Party, which campaigned for
better schools, elderly care and infrastructure spending, rose
in part at the expense of the anti-immigration  Progress Party ,
the second-biggest in parliament.  In Oslo, the ruling Conservatives gained six seats to 22
seats, according to a count of 82 percent of the votes. The
Progress Party fell five seats to four, casting their ruling
coalition in doubt. The Labor Party gained two seats to 20,
according to the incomplete count, while the Socialist Left fell
two to four seats.  The Liberals were unchanged at five seats, while the Party
Red was declined one to two seats, according to the preliminary
count. The  Christian Democrats  lost its one seat, while the
Greens gained one seat.  Stian Berger Roesland, the Conservative head of the city
council, said in a televised broadcast that he would work for a
broad non-socialist coalition to rule the city.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  