-- 
Norway Labor May Fall Short in Vote as Sympathy Wanes

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r ,   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r   a n d   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-09-12T06:28:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/norway-labor-may-fall-short-in-vote-as-sympathy-wanes-correct-.html
Norway ’s ruling Labor Party may
fall short of gaining power in the country’s biggest cities as
voter sympathy wanes from the July terror attacks.  Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg’s party, the target of the
attacks that claimed 77 lives on July 22, may post its best
nationwide result in regional elections held today since 1987,
even as it probably falls short in cities such as Oslo,
Stavanger and Bergen, polls indicate.  “During the last 10 days, now I feel that the wind is
blowing more our way,” said Carl I. Hagen, former leader of the
anti-immigration Progress Party and a candidate for Oslo mayor,
in a Sept. 9 interview. “If you compare the opinion polls in
June and those in August, there was a tremendous increase for
the  Labor Party .”  Campaigning was delayed for two weeks as Norwegians coped
with the most deadly attack since World War II after Anders Behring Breivik bombed the premier’s office and shot 69 people
at a Labor Party youth camp near Oslo. The 32-year-old former
Progress Party member said at a July 25 court hearing that he
sought to inflict the “greatest possible loss” to Labor, which
he blames for allowing too many immigrants into Norway.  “You have definitely sympathy for Labor,” Frank Aarebrot,
a politics professor at the University of Bergen, said by phone.
“A natural psychological reaction after a terrorist attack is
people will feel more insecure, they turn away from parties that
want to renew things or experiment.”  Conservatives Gain  In a 1,500-page manifesto posted on the Internet hours
before the killings, Breivik railed against the “Islamization”
of Norway and  Europe . More Norwegians now say they embrace
multiculturalism, according to an Aug. 1 InFact poll in Verdens
Gang. The Police Security Service said in a July 29 report that
the tragedy may hurt recruitment for extreme right-wing groups.  The Progress Party’s nationwide backing is down to 15.3
percent from 17.5 percent in the 2007 local election, while
support for Labor is up 1.5 percentage points to 31.1 percent,
according to a Respons poll of 1,503 voters on Sept. 10. The
survey has a margin of error of 1.5 percentage point to 2.5
percentage points.  Backing for the Conservative Party has risen, in part at
the expense of the Progress Party, the second biggest in
parliament. The  Conservative Party  has advanced 7.6 percentage
points to 26.9 percent since the 2007 local election and is
poised to hold on to power in three of Norway’s four-biggest
cities, Oslo, Stavanger and Bergen, leaving Labor in power in
Trondheim.  While data from news agency NTB show Labor leads in 15 of
Norway’s 19 counties, lackluster support for its allies may
prevent it from gaining power.  Partners Slip  The Socialist Left has dropped 1 percentage point to 5.2
percent and the Center Party is down 3.3 percentage points to
4.7 percent, according the Respons poll.  “Labor and the Conservatives are traditional government
parties in Norway,” Aarebrot said. Groups on the edges “don’t
appeal to an electorate that has become insecure.”  According to an earlier survey in Oslo, the Labor Party may
get 32.2 percent, compared with 30.3 percent for the
Conservatives. Support for Labor and its allies trail the
Conservative-led government by almost 8 percentage points,
according to a Sept. 9 survey.  In Bergen, the Conservative coalition have a 17.4
percentage-point lead over Labor and its allies, while in
Stavanger, Labor and its partners trail the ruling constellation
by 14.4 percentage points, according to the Sept. 8 polls. Labor
will probably retain power in Trondheim, the polls show.  Hagen’s Team  Backing for Labor, which was re-elected in 2009 on pledges
to improve welfare without raising taxes, dropped in polls to as
low as 26 percent before the July massacre. Stoltenberg, 52, won
admiration from voters for avoiding traps that risked polarizing
the debate in Norway and he even urged lawmakers and the media
not to vilify anti-immigration policies.  The Progress Party’s Hagen said in the interview that it
has been a “difficult” campaign and that everyone was on the
same team, defending “our democracy, our openness, our freedom
of speech and our values.”  While support for Labor has receded from a post-attack high
of 35.1 percent, the party may benefit from a bigger turnout
among its supporters.  “People who sympathize with the Labor Party, people who
support Labor policies, are somewhat more enthusiastic in this
election,” Johannes Bergh, a political scientist at the
Institute for Social Research in Oslo, said by phone. “So
they’re probably going to have a good result in the election.”  High Turnout  Turnout may be high judging from a tally of advance votes.
Some 530,000 votes were cast through Sept. 10, up from 374,000
before the 2007 election, according to data from the Local
Government and Regional Development Ministry.  Karianne Skare, who voted early at Oslo City Hall on Sept.
9, said while the attacks didn’t change her party, she did take
advantage of a preferential voting system to tick some
candidates from the “Labor Party that I got to know through the
media after July 22.”  “It’s important to vote, and I hope that more people are
voting this year because of what happened,” Skare said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net ;
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Treloar at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  