-- 
NRC Staff Proposes Earthquake Hazard Reviews ‘Without Delay’

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-09-12T17:16:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/nrc-staff-proposes-earthquake-hazard-reviews-without-delay-1-.html
The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission should require power-plant owners to re-evaluate
“without delay” their readiness to withstand earthquakes and
floods, the agency’s staff said.  The staff identified seven regulatory steps that have the
“greatest potential for safety improvement in the near-term,”
according to a Sept. 9 memorandum to the commission, released
today. The actions include a review of seismic and flooding
hazards and rules to help nuclear plants handle the loss of
electric power to the site.  An agency  task force  in a July report  recommended  12
regulatory changes the NRC should make to improve safety at U.S.
power plants after an earthquake and tsunami in March caused
meltdowns and radiation leaks at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. The staff plans to prioritize the
recommendations by Oct. 3.  All of the task force’s “overarching recommendations, if
adopted, would enhance safety and the staff agrees with moving
forward with each of these recommendations,” according to the
memo.  Reactor owners should have at least eight hours of backup
power in the event of a power-plant blackout, the task force
said in its July report. NRC staff recommended that the agency
examine “whether there is a need” to expand the minimum
requirements for reactors to handle a loss of power at the site.  ‘Hardened’ Vents  The agency also should require some older reactor
containment structures, similar to the  General Electric Co (GE) .-
designed models that failed at Fukushima, to have “hardened”
vents to release pressure and avoid a meltdown, according to the
staff memo.  “I really don’t see any of these recommendations that we
should not move forward on,” NRC Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  said
of the task force’s report during a Sept. 7 interview. “They’re
all common-sense recommendations.”  NRC staff will consider for 18 months one of the task-
force’s recommendations, the establishment of a new regulatory
framework, the agency said in an Aug. 19 statement.  Knowledge of seismic hazards in the U.S. has “evolved to
the point that it would be appropriate” for power-plant owners
to review reactor designs to ensure they can withstand
earthquakes, the staff memo said. Officials from Dominion
Resources Inc. told the NRC on Sept. 8 that an August earthquake
in  Virginia  had exceed the design limits of its North Anna
nuclear plant, about 11 miles (18 kilometers) from the
epicenter.  10-Year Review  The staff didn’t recommend that the agency immediately take
up a proposal made by the task force that power-plant owners
confirm their seismic and flooding hazards every 10 years and
upgrade as necessary. Nuclear-plant owners should deal with new
seismic information “as it emerges,” the  Nuclear Energy
Institute , a Washington-based industry group, said in comments
issued Sept. 6.  NEI is reviewing the NRC staff memo and didn’t immediately
have a comment, Steve Kerekes, a spokesman for the group, said
in a phone interview today.  The staff memo “looks an awful lot like foot-dragging,”
 David Lochbaum , director of the Nuclear Safety Project for the
Union of Concerned Scientists, an environmental group based in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , said in an e-mail today.  The staff didn’t recommend swift NRC action to improve the
safety of spent-fuel pools, such as installing water sprays to
keep the nuclear waste cool.  “Additional review is needed to identify the specific
regulatory actions” on cooling pools, the staff report said.
The re-evaluation of seismic and flooding hazards may affect
potential instrument upgrades at the pools, it said.  “That’s unacceptable,” Lochbaum said. NRC staff “must
provide ample justification for not acting to protect American
lives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  