-- 
Obama Gets Credit for Jobs in Michigan Where Voters Disapprove

-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 
2011-09-12T14:15:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/obama-gets-credit-for-saving-auto-jobs-in-michigan-where-voters-disapprove.html
Wes Smith probably would have lost
his family-owned company if it weren’t for one of President
Barack Obama’s signature economic policies: the $82 billion
bailout of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC.  “I could be out of business,” Smith said. “Do I think
about that often? Absolutely.”  Instead, E&E Manufacturing Co., the Plymouth, Mich., auto-
parts maker Smith’s father-in-law founded in 1962, is rebounding
from the depths of the financial crisis. Annual sales of about
$75 million are up about 50 percent from their nadir. The
company has added about 70 jobs since employment bottomed at
280, down from a pre-crisis high of 480.  E&E’s resurgence is part of a broader auto-industry
comeback that analysts say vindicates the government’s activism
in financing and arranging the 2009 GM and Chrysler
bankruptcies.  While Republicans assailed the intervention as evidence of
Obama’s addiction to state-centric solutions, the industry has
added almost 133,000 U.S. jobs since its 2009 low point,
according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. And the U.S.
government has recovered all but $1.3 billion of the $12.5
billion it spent to prop up  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based
Chrysler, now controlled by Italy’s Fiat SpA, and almost half of
the $49.5 billion devoted to GM in Detroit.  “It was one of the better policy responses to the
financial panic and recession,” said  Mark Zandi , chief
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
 Pennsylvania . The auto industry “is one of the more powerful
sources of growth in the recovery.”  Political Dividends  One thing the industry’s Lazarus-like revival hasn’t done,
however, is pay political dividends for Obama.  “I have no faith in this administration,” said Smith, 55,
criticizing what he said is the president’s failure to encourage
corporate investment in the U.S.  The sour grapes aren’t limited to Republicans such as
Smith. In the latest EPIC-MRA poll of  Michigan  voters, 65
percent gave Obama a negative job-performance rating -- worse
than the 50 percent disapproval mark in the latest national
Gallup poll. Even a majority of traditionally Democratic union
households in Michigan gave Obama a thumbs-down.  James Mead, 46, hired as a welder at E&E after six months
of unemployment, shrugs at the president’s role in saving
companies like his new employer.  “I think it’s something the government had to do,” he
said in an interview. “If they didn’t and the  auto industry 
collapsed, we would have had a depression.”  Voted Democratic  Michigan voters in EPIC-MRA’s mock 2012 ballot preferred
former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney -- who opposed the
bailout -- over Obama 45 percent to 43 percent. The president
won Michigan’s 17 electoral votes in 2008, capturing more than
57 percent of the popular vote. The state has voted Democratic
in every presidential election since 1992.  “It shouldn’t be a fight at all,” said  Bob King ,
president of the United Auto Workers union. Obama “should carry
it overwhelmingly.”  There’s not much mystery about the reason for Obama’s
troubles here. After falling in April to 10.2 percent from a
2009 peak of 14.1 percent, the state’s jobless rate has risen
for three consecutive months to 10.9 percent -- well above 9.1
percent nationally.  “Michigan’s economy is worse than the nation’s,” said
Bernie Porn, president of EPIC-MRA, the Lansing, Michigan-based
opinion-research company. “The  unemployment rate  is higher and
people are more depressed.”  Rallying Cry  Arguing that things could have been worse -- as the
administration sometimes has -- isn’t much of a rallying cry. It
may, however, be true.  “Without the government stepping in, first the Bush
administration and then the Obama administration, we would have
seen the liquidation of both Chrysler and probably GM,” said
David Cole, chairman emeritus of the Center for Automotive
Research in  Ann Arbor , Michigan. “That would have taken the
whole industry down. We would have seen a disaster in terms of
the job impact.”  Michigan has added 110,800 jobs since nonfarm employment
bottomed in 2009. Obama took credit for the auto-industry
turnaround in a Labor Day appearance in the Motor City, saying
“I’ve seen Detroit prove the cynics and the naysayers wrong.”  The visit was his second Michigan stop in a month; he also
highlighted signs of growth during an Aug. 11 tour of a  Johnson
Controls Inc. (JCI)  factory in Holland, Mich., that produces lithium-
ion batteries for hybrid and electric vehicles. The Milwaukee-
based company says its planned $460 million investment in green
technology will create 700 new jobs, preserve an additional 400
and spark 1,000 construction hirings.  Auto Rescue  Despite Michigan’s green-economy potential, there are
749,000 fewer people working in the state today than in April
2000. That long-term trend dwarfs the auto rescue’s political
salience.  “Even here, Obama doesn’t get much credit for it,” said
Dan Luria, director of research for the Michigan Manufacturing
Technology Center in Plymouth. “Once something occurs, people
tend to believe it would have happened anyway” and “have
trouble believing government really did something that had a big
impact on their lives.”  Another reason popular acclaim has been somewhat muted: The
auto-industry revival has done more for investors than workers.
Since July 13, 2009, the first trading day after GM exited
bankruptcy, the Bloomberg World Auto Parts & Equipment Index has
gained 57 percent vs. the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock-index gain
of 28 percent.  Crisis Low  An investor who bought shares of  American Axle &
Manufacturing Holdings Inc. (AXL)  at its March 2009 crisis low of 29
cents -- down 99 percent from the 2007 peak -- would enjoy a
return of more than 2,500 percent, based on the closing price of
$7.74 on Sept. 9.  American Axle responded to its near-death experience by
taking a cleaver to fixed costs, closing plants and
restructuring to break even if annual U.S. auto sales were 10
million -- down from around 14 million before the crisis.  While the company has been profitable for eight consecutive
quarters, its U.S. workforce shrank to about 2,800 at the end of
2010 from 6,200 at the end of 2007 as it focuses on markets such
as  Brazil ,  Thailand ,  India  and  China .  The Detroit-based company, which reported $2.3 billion in
annual revenue last year, says it expects to reach the $3
billion mark in 2013.  “To support that, we will have to hire,” said Christopher Son, director of investor relations. “Some will be in the U.S.;
a lot will be in the foreign markets.”  Jobs at Risk  In late 2008, faced with estimates that as many as 3
million U.S. jobs could be at risk, the Bush administration
extended more than $17 billion in loans from the Troubled Assets
Relief Program to GM and Chrysler. Dearborn, Michigan-based  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  didn’t need government financing, thanks to a 2006
refinancing of its debt.  Officials said the failure of either company could start a
chain reaction that would topple dozens of suppliers. Those
failures, in turn, would boomerang onto otherwise healthy
operations, including Ford and the U.S. plants of foreign makers
such as  Japan ’s  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co.  At E&E, Smith went into survival mode. He stopped taking a
salary, laid off factory workers and cut the pay of his
managers. The entire domestic auto industry retreated into a
similar state of hibernation, with factories operating at barely
one-third of capacity, according to Federal Reserve data.  ‘It Was Terrible’  “It was terrible,” Smith said. “You didn’t know if you
were going to make it or not. We’d never had a losing year, but
we lost big in ’08 and ’09.”  In 2009, the Obama administration provided additional
financing for the two car companies, as well as their financing
arms. An auto-industry task force also shepherded the companies
through accelerated bankruptcies. The process allowed them to
shed excess facilities, workers and dealers, emerging in
mid-2009 in better shape to battle global competitors.  A key objective of the rescue was preserving the network of
machine shops and parts makers that serve all the manufacturers.
In a February 13, 2009, submission to the Treasury Department,
an industry association warned that it was “on the cusp of a
cascading economic failure.” The Obama administration responded
by establishing a $5 billion Supplier Support Program, which
acted as a financial safety net.  By December 2009, U.S. car and truck sales were running at
an annual pace of 11.1 million, up from 9.3 million in February.
In July of this year, auto companies operated at 64.5 percent of
capacity, a near-doubling of the pace at the crisis low point,
yet well below the 75.3 percent long-term average.  Rising Profits  GM -- with the  U.S. Treasury  still owning 32 percent of its
shares -- reported second-quarter profits of $2.99 billion, its
sixth consecutive profitable quarter. The automaker’s global
workforce, which stood at 116,000 at the end of 2008, now tops
200,000, and its U.S. sales rose 18 percent in August compared
with a 13 percent decline for Toyota, still battling tight
supplies after Japan’s March earthquake.  In May, GM announced plans for a $2 billion investment in
its U.S. factories that it said would “create or retain” about
4,000 jobs, according to spokeswoman Kimberly Carpenter.  Still, a healthier GM has seen its U.S. payroll shrink to
79,000 as of June 30 from 91,000 jobs at the end of 2008.  ‘Making Profits’  “GM and Chrysler are making profits,” said Steven Rattner, who headed the auto task force and also has handled the
personal and philanthropic finances of New York Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, the majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent of
Bloomberg News. “The bigger question is, the president saved
these companies; whether we succeeded in saving the jobs remains
to be seen.”  The answer may be found about 16 miles north of Detroit in
Warren, Michigan, a center of auto and defense manufacturing for
generations. Along Groesbeck Highway, a boulevard lined with
machine shops and warehouses, “for sale or lease” signs
compete with the occasional “help wanted” advertisement.  While Congressman Sander Levin, a Democrat, says he has no
doubt the administration’s rescue saved his district from
economic catastrophe, Obama will need to do more to retain
Michigan’s allegiance next year.  “There needs to be two pieces: addressing the deficit and
stimulating growth,” Levin said. “He needs to dramatically
shift gears.”  In the past year, 768 workers have gone through a new
retraining program at Macomb Community College designed for
laid-off auto workers and military veterans. A total of 272 have
been placed in jobs.  Bounced Around  Craig Fowlds, 53, hopes to join them. A veteran of GM’s
Cadillac assembly line, he took a buyout during an earlier
restructuring in the late 1980s. Since then, he’s bounced
between jobs at other automakers, including Honda and Chrysler,
sometimes earning as much as $34 an hour. When he eventually
exhausted his  unemployment benefits , his 2008 Chrysler Town and
Country minivan was repossessed.  “It’s been a struggle to keep my head above water,” said,
Fowlds, who is scheduled to graduate from the training program
in October.  He says he doesn’t think the auto rescue has helped
Michigan much. An Obama voter in 2008, he’ll wait to see whom
the Republicans nominate before deciding whether to support the
president’s re-election.  “I may not even vote at all,” he said. “I’m so
frustrated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  