-- 
Obama Proposes Limits on Tax-Breaks for Municipal-Bond Investors

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n ,   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-09-13T17:00:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/obama-jobs-plan-proposes-limits-on-tax-breaks-for-municipal-bond-investor.html
President  Barack Obama  proposed
curbing the amount of interest from municipal bonds that top
earners can exclude from their taxable income, a step that may
diminish demand for state and local-government securities.  The president’s $447 billion job-creation plan would pare
the tax break for municipal-bond interest to 28 percent for
couples earning more than $250,000 a year. Such tax-exempt
interest is currently worth 35 percent for earners in the top
tax bracket because that’s the amount they would otherwise have
to pay on their income.  Any move to limit the tax advantage for municipal
securities would face resistance from local-government officials
because the break bolsters demand for their debt, lowering the
 interest rates  they pay when borrowing for public works.
Investors in the $2.9 trillion market for municipal bonds are
willing to accept lower returns because the income isn’t taxed.  “We’re very much opposed” to limiting the  tax exemption ,
said Mike Nicholas, chief executive of the Bond Dealers of
America, a Washington-based lobbying group for banks that
underwrite municipal bonds. “You’re going to end up punishing
state and local governments.”  Fiscal Strains  States, cities and counties have yet to fully recover from
the strains of the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009.
States faced budget deficits of about $89 billion this fiscal
year, according to the  National Conference of State
Legislatures . State and local governments combined have cut
680,000 jobs since 2008, according to Labor Department
statistics.  The tax break has faced challenges in Congress amid a push
to rein in the federal deficit, though no proposals have
advanced. The president’s deficit-reduction commission
recommended scrapping it last year as part of an overhaul of the
U.S. tax code, while Senator  Ron Wyden , a Democrat from  Oregon ,
proposed replacing the tax exemption with a credit.  The proposal had limited impact on trading in municipal
securities today. Top-rated municipal debt maturing in 10 years
yielded about 2.06 percent, little changed from yesterday,
according to BVAL pricing data.  Studying Correlation  Morgan Stanley analysts found little correlation going back
to 1983 between tax changes and prices of municipal bonds.
Shifts in tax rates were trumped by investor perceptions of
credit risk and liquidity, the analysts said in a report today.  Scott Eldridge, director of  portfolio management  for Caprin
Asset Management in Richmond,  Virginia , said he’s seen no signs
of investors selling bonds on the proposed change, which he
expects would face political obstacles given the cost it would
impose on state and local governments.  “We haven’t seen anything to suggest that the market is
reacting to this now,” said Eldridge, whose company holds about
$800 million of municipal bonds.  Republicans gave the president’s jobs plan a tepid
reaction.  Michael Steel , a spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, criticized the proposal, which also
seeks to roll back breaks for private-equity fund managers and
 oil companies , as a tax on businesses.  While previous efforts to repeal the exemption have
faltered, there’s concern that it may be drawn into efforts to
curb the federal deficit, said Lars Etzkorn, a lobbyist for the
 National League of Cities .  “We’re concerned that some budget-control exercise could
get out of control,” he said.  Limited Scope  The president’s proposal is narrower and would only limit
the benefits, not revoke them entirely, for those in the top tax
brackets. It is part of a group of tax breaks targeted to pay
for a plan designed to stimulate the economy in part by giving
states aid to keep teachers and emergency-worker jobs.  The proposed change, which was included on page 136 of the
155-page bill, wasn’t trumpeted by the administration. The
measure would take effect at the start of 2013, according to a
summary from the administration.  The Government Finance Officers Association, which
represents public borrowers, said it was concerned about any
move to limit the tax exemption for municipal securities.  “Limiting the amount of tax-exempt interest that can be
deducted would likely affect demand and therefore increase debt-
issuance costs for all governments who need to access the  bond
market ,” said Susan Gaffney, a Washington lobbyist for the
group.  Opposition Expected  The plan would curb the value of the tax break to the
benefit it affords to earners in the 28 percent bracket. The
exemption effectively provides a 35 percent tax break for top
earners because that’s what they pay on other income. For
couples earning less than $250,000, or individuals below
$200,000 for single taxpayers, there would be no change, said
Meg Reilly, a spokeswoman for the White House Office of
Management and Budget.  Local governments will probably rally to oppose the
measure, said  Michael Schroeder , president and chief investment
officer of Wasmer, Schroeder & Co., which manages about $3
billion of municipal bonds in Naples,  Florida .  “There’s a healthy skepticism about it passing in its
current form,” he said. “As written it’s dead on arrival.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  