-- 
Obama Says Decade Since Sept. 11 Proves American Resilience

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v ,   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-09-12T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/obama-says-decade-since-sept-11-proves-american-resilience.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  marked
the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks by
emphasizing Americans’ perseverance, saying for all the wars,
disruptions and soul-searching of the past decade the country’s
values and optimism remain.  “Our character as a nation has not changed,” the
president told Americans last night in televised remarks during
a memorial concert at the Kennedy Center in Washington.
“America does not give in to fear.”  His words capped a day of memorials from New York to
Washington to remember the lives of almost 3,000 people who died
in the attacks. The man behind the deadly strike, al-Qaeda
founder Osama bin Laden, was killed by U.S. forces in May.  Earlier yesterday, Obama joined former President  George W. Bush  at the  World Trade Center site  in Manhattan for a ceremony
attended by the families of victims. Obama was later greeted
with cheers and applause when he visited memorials near
Shanksville, Pennsylvania, and at the Pentagon, sites where two
of the four hijacked airliners crashed. He laid a wreath at each
location. Officials in New York and Washington increased
security in preparation for the anniversary.  Obama and first lady  Michelle Obama , and Bush and his wife
Laura Bush walked along the perimeter of the north pool of the
9/11 memorial, stopping for a moment of silence.  Ground Zero   They were joined at Ground Zero by Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ,
former Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and Governors Andrew Cuomo of  New
York  and Christopher Christie of  New Jersey . The men read
letters, poems and religious passages as surviving family
members recited the names of the victims in New York, Washington
and Pennsylvania. Also honored were the six killed in the 1993
bombing of the World Trade Center.  "They were our neighbors, our friends, our husbands, wives,
brothers, sisters, children and parents," Bloomberg said at the
ceremony. "They were the ones who rushed in to help, 2,983
innocent men, women and children. We have asked their families
to come here to speak the names out loud to remind each of us of
a person we lost in New York, in Washington and  Pennsylvania ."  Obama began his 11-minute remarks in Washington with a
reading from Psalm 30:5 in the Bible: “Weeping may endure for a
night, but joy cometh in the morning.” U.S. actions over the
past decade, he said, show that “those who do us harm cannot
hide from the reach of justice, anywhere in the world.”  He didn’t mention by name either bin Laden or al-Qaeda.  U.S. Ideals  The president said the 9/11 attacks created
"inconveniences" and debate about war and civil liberties.
Still, he said, the attacks didn’t shake American faith in the
ideals of open markets, free speech or freedom of religion. Nor
did they stop Americans from working in skyscrapers, attending
sports events in stadiums, riding in airplanes or sending their
children outside to play.  The nation “pulses with optimism,” Obama said.  “It will be said of us that we kept the faith -- that we
took a painful blow and we emerged stronger than before,” he
said. “We are not perfect but our democracy is durable.”  The New York ceremony, in the shadow of a new skyscraper
that will be the tallest building in the U.S., took place while
thousands of police officers worked overtime under a terror
alert stemming from what Bloomberg called a “credible but not
corroborated” threat.  Credible Threat  John Brennan , Obama’s counterterrorism adviser, said
yesterday that U.S. officials are working “round the clock” to
investigate a “specific and credible” threat of a terrorist
attack against  Washington  or New York that may be tied to the
anniversary.  Counterterrorism officials have “some information” about
the nature of the possible plans and the people who may be
involved, Brennan said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program. No
new information has come to light since last week’s initial
alert, a White House official said.  “We’re continuing to attempt to assess the threat,” said
 Jim Margolin , a spokesman for the FBI’s New York Office, in an
interview yesterday. “Even after the Sept. 11 anniversary
passes, we will continue to try to determine whether people
entered the country with the intent to cause harm.”  A U.S. official who wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter
publicly said last week the intelligence concerned a possible
vehicle-borne attack, perhaps on a transportation hub or
bottleneck, and cautioned that the options may be broader than a
car or truck bombing.  Tighter Security  In the days before yesterday’s ceremonies, New York
officials increased security with frozen zones, truck
inspections and heavily armed police throughout the city. There
were increased patrols of transportation networks in and around
Washington.  New York police have stopped at least 13 terrorist attacks
since 2001, Bloomberg said. While the killing of bin Laden
earlier this year has helped reduce the threat, the mayor said,
“The one thing we know is the terrorists have not gone away.”  A U.S. intelligence alert that federal officials sent to
local  law enforcement  said operatives in the suspected plot
might be carrying American documents, according to two people
familiar with the alert who weren’t authorized to speak
publicly. U.S. officials learned of the threat in intercepted
communications among suspected al-Qaeda operatives in the tribal
areas of western  Pakistan , three U.S. intelligence officials
said.  They said the “chatter,” as they described the
intercepted conversations, didn’t name the alleged attackers and
included only vague descriptions of vehicle-borne attacks.  Moment of Silence  The observance in New York started with a moment of silence
at 8:46 a.m., the time when the first jetliner smashed into the
complex’s North Tower. Another silent moment occurred 17 minutes
later, marking when a second airplane hit the South Tower.  The ceremony, mixed with musical interludes, paused at 9:37
a.m., the time as a decade ago when a jet hit the Pentagon; at
9:59 a.m., the same time as the South Tower had fallen, and at
10:03 a.m., when passengers on United Air Lines Flight 93 had
wrested control from hijackers and the plane crashed near
Shanksville.  The final moment of silence, at 10:28 a.m., marked the time
when the North Tower fell.  Pennsylvania Ceremony  In  Shanksville , Obama laid a wreath in honor of the
passengers of Flight 93 in front of a wall made up of marble
panels bearing names of Flight 93 victims.  After shaking hands for more than an hour with victims’
families, the president and first lady visited the site where
Flight 93 made impact, marked by a large boulder.  At the  Pentagon , Defense Secretary Leon Panetta held a
commemoration with Vice President Joe Biden and Chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Mike Mullen. Panetta cited the
more than 6,200 soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines who have
died in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars.  “In the wake of the attacks, a generation of Americans
stepped forward to serve in uniform, determined to confront our
enemies and respond to them swiftly and justly,” Panetta said.
“For 10 years, they have taken on the burden of protecting
America, relentlessly pursuing those who would do us harm, who
would threaten our homeland. Because of their sacrifices, we are
a safer and stronger nation today.”  Members of each of the armed services laid a wreath for
each victim at the Pentagon memorial ground.  Remembering Victims  Lisa Dolan, a member of the Pentagon Memorial advisory
board, said her husband, Navy Captain Robert Dolan, was working
in the Naval command center in the building when Flight 77 hit.  The center had already been on alert after the New York
attack, she said. A father of a nine-year-old son and a 15-year-
old daughter at the time, he was among the 184 killed in the
Pentagon attack.  Dolan, who has come back to the memorial every year, wore
her husband’s U.S. Naval Academy class ring on a gold chain
around her neck. It was found in the wreckage by an FBI agent,
she said.  “I know he left it for me,” said Dolan, 50, of
Alexandria, Virginia. “Even though it’s 10 years instead of
five years or six years or seven, it’s still an emotional time
for all the family members.”  In New York, a museum with artifacts from the destroyed
towers and the people who died is scheduled to open a year from
yesterday. Together with a memorial, it will create a $700
million commemoration of the attack on half the 16 acres that
make up the  World Trade Center site.   Focal Point  The focal point of the revival is 1 World Trade Center, a
$3.2 billion 1,776-foot building that has reached the 80th of
104 floors. It’s rising by one floor per week and will be
completed by 2013, said Christopher Ward, executive director of
the  Port Authority  of New York and New Jersey, which owns the
site.  Two other towers designed by architects Richard Rogers and
 Norman Foster , and a transit terminal designed by Santiago Calatrava-Valls, will be completed by 2015, said developer  Larry Silverstein . Bloomberg, who is chairman of the  National Sept. 11
Memorial and Museum ’s board of directors, is founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Lower  Manhattan , devastated by the attack that felled the
twin towers, has doubled its residential population since, added
19 hotels and invested $552 million in new parks, streets and
water mains, Bloomberg said last week.  ‘Reflecting Absence’  The memorial on the World Trade Center site, called
“Reflecting Absence,” was created by Michael Arad, a city-
employed architect whose design was chosen from 5,000
submissions.  It features two waterfalls pouring into pools on the
original footprints of the two towers. The pools are surrounded
by granite walls bearing the 2,982 names of victims of the two
separate attacks at the trade center, at the Pentagon and on
Flight 93.  Those who died in 2001 included more than 400 rescue
workers. Among them were 343 firefighters and 60 police officers
from  New York City  and the  Port Authority . Their names are
emblazoned on plaques in firehouses, at police headquarters and
in memorials throughout the city and neighboring counties.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 