-- 
Obama Says Congress Should Act on $447 Billion Jobs Plan With ‘No Delays’

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-09-12T16:06:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/obama-says-congress-should-act-on-447-billion-jobs-plan-with-no-delays-.html
President  Barack Obama  held up a
copy of legislation to enact his $447 billion job-growth package
and called on Congress to act on it with “no games, no
politics, no delays.”  “I’m sending this bill to Congress today and they ought to
pass it immediately,” Obama said in the White House Rose
Garden, where he was joined by Vice President Joe Biden and a
group that included teachers, police officers, construction
workers and small-business owners. “Let’s put them back to
work.”  The package, which the president outlined in a Sept. 8
address to a joint session of Congress, is weighted toward tax
cuts, which account for more than half the dollar value of the
plan. The rest would provide money for improving infrastructure,
modernizing schools and helping states keep teachers and
emergency workers on the job.  The centerpiece is a cut in the  payroll tax , which covers
the first $106,800 in earnings and is evenly split between
employers and employees. Obama would reduce the portion paid by
workers next year to 3.1 percent from 4.2 percent now. The rate
was reduced by two percentage points under the terms of a tax
deal reached last year. That cut is set to expire Dec. 31, which
would push the tax rate back to 6.2 percent.  Rising Taxes  “If Congress does not act, just about every family in
America will pay more taxes next year,” Obama said. “That
would be a self-inflicted wound that our economy just cannot
afford right now.”  Job growth stalled last month and the  unemployment rate  has
hovered at or above 9 percent for more than two years. The
president’s job-approval ratings are falling to new lows as
public doubts about his stewardship of the economy rise. Public
opinion of Congress has dropped even lower.  Obama said the legislation won’t add to the federal debt
and that he would lay out how to offset the cost in a proposal
to the 12-member congressional supercommittee charged with
coming up with $1.5 trillion in cuts to the long-term deficit.
He said that plan would be sent to the panel by Sept. 19.  The president called on lawmakers to heed his sense of
urgency, saying the measure will reduce economic uncertainty and
blunt headwinds from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Economic Uncertainty  “These aren’t games we’re playing here; folks are out of
work,” Obama said. “Businesses are having trouble staying
open, you’ve got a world economy that is full of uncertainty
right now -- in Europe, in the  Middle East . Some events may be
beyond our control, but this is something we can control.”  Speculation about a possible default by  Greece  pushed U.S.
stocks lower, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down for a
third straight day. The  S&P 500  lost 1.1 percent to 1,142.06 at
11:02 a.m. in  New York . The benchmark measure slumped 1.7
percent last week, wiping out its rally since Sept. 2 on the
final day amid concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening. The
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  retreated 115.38 points, or 1.1
percent, to 10,876.75.  As Obama spoke,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest U.S.
lender by assets, said it will shed about 30,000 jobs over the
“next few years” as part of a cost-cutting program announced
by Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan .  Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase
& Co. fell at least 1.7 percent, following losses in European
banks, and as  Citigroup Inc. (C)  slashed its third-quarter profit
estimates for the U.S. lenders. Bank of America gained 0.6
percent on the planned cost cuts.  CBO Analysis  House Speaker John Boehner said the president’s bill should
be analyzed immediately by the Congressional Budget Office
before the administration and Congress pursue negotiations.  “The record of the economic proposals enacted during the
last Congress necessitates careful examination of the
president’s latest plan as well as consideration of alternative
measures that may more effectively support private-sector job
creation,” Boehner said in a statement.  Obama plans to campaign for passage of the measure by
appealing to voters to step up pressure on their
representatives. He appeared in a part of Richmond, Virginia,
Represented by House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  on Sept. 9 and
he plans an event tomorrow in Ohio, Boehner’s home state. The
following day he’ll go to the Raleigh-Durham area of  North
Carolina .  Growth Forecasts  Economists at Goldman, JPMorgan and Moody’s Analytics Inc.
said last week the  U.S. economy  would get a boost of up to 2
percent under Obama’s plan.  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said the proposal would create 1.9
million jobs and lower the unemployment rate by one percentage
point compared with current policy. He forecast it would add 2
percent to next year’s GDP.  Goldman Sachs estimated that the plan would add 1.5 percent
to the economy, while Macroeconomic Advisers LLC said 1.3
percent and UniCredit Research said up to 2 percent.  “Independent economists and validators have said this
could add significant amount to our gross domestic product and
could put people back to work all across the country,” Obama
said. “The only thing that’s stopping it is politics.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  