-- 
Obama Team Backed $535 Million Solyndra Aid as Auditor Warned on Finances

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-09-12T16:59:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/obama-team-backed-535-million-solyndra-aid-as-auditor-warned-on-finances.html
Solyndra LLC’s workers making
solar-power panels in a California factory subsidized by U.S.
taxpayers showed “the promise of clean energy isn’t just an
article of faith,” President  Barack Obama  said on a visit to
the company in May 2010.  Two months before Obama’s visit, accounting firm
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP warned that Solyndra, the recipient
of $535 million in federal loan guarantees, had financial
troubles deep enough to “raise substantial doubt about its
ability to continue as a going concern.”  The Obama administration stood by Solyndra through the
auditor’s warning, the abandonment of a planned initial public
offering and a last-ditch refinancing where taxpayers took a
back seat to new investors. That unwavering commitment has come
under increasing scrutiny since the company’s travails
culminated in its filing for  bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 6
and a raid on its headquarters by the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  two days later.  “People including our government put blinders on and did
not want to believe in the obvious,” Jonathan Dorsheimer, an
analyst in  Boston  for Canaccord Genuity Inc. of  Vancouver , said
in an interview with Bloomberg Government. “The fact that the
government chose Solyndra as their white horse is mind-
boggling.”  ‘Merit-Based Decision’  Selection of companies to receive U.S. backing are “merit-
based decisions made by career staffers at the  Department of
Energy , and the process for this particular loan guarantee began
under President  George W. Bush ,” Eric Schultz, a White House
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement Sept. 1. “Every
project that receives financing through the Energy Department
goes through a rigorous financial, legal and technical review
process.”  The House Energy and Commerce Committee, which has been
investigating the Solyndra award since February, has  scheduled a
hearing  on the loan guarantees for Sept. 14.  “We smelled a rat from the onset,” Representatives  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican and the committee chairman, and
 Cliff Stearns , a Florida Republican and chairman of the
investigation subpanel, said in a statement Aug. 31 when the
company announced it had dismissed 1,100 employees and planned
to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization.  A day before Solyndra ceased operations, the Energy
Department turned down the company’s request to renegotiate the
U.S. loan agreement, saying “a second restructuring was not
feasible,” according to a memo from committee Republicans.  Stimulus Legislation  Originally authorized by Congress in a 2005 energy law, the
 loan guarantee program  to encourage the development of clean-
energy sources didn’t choose its first recipient until it was
revamped under Obama’s 2009 stimulus legislation. Trade groups
such as the Solar Energy Industries Association and the  American
Wind Energy Association  lobbied Obama, urging in a letter that
he prevent “further delay.”  Energy Secretary Steven Chu pledged during his Senate
confirmation hearing to speed the  approval  of applications for
the federal backing.  Solyndra, identified during Bush’s administration as a
promising applicant, received the Energy Department’s first loan
guarantee after Obama took office. Solyndra was given
conditional approval in March 2009 and the award became final
that September.  Easier, Lighter  The goal was to help the Fremont, California-based company
develop its cylinder-shaped solar devices, which convert
sunlight into electricity using a thin film made mainly of
copper, indium, gallium and selenium. Standard solar panels are
flat and made from silicon.  The company said its product was easier to install and
lighter, giving it an edge over conventional panels, especially
for large rooftops that can’t handle the weight of flat panels.  Solyndra used the U.S. backing to build the manufacturing
plant Obama visited, shutting an older facility executives said
couldn’t produce panels efficiently enough to compete in a
market increasingly dominated by cheaper Chinese imports.  The company disclosed the “going concern” warning by
PricewaterhouseCoopers, its accounting firm, in a Securities and
Exchange Commission filing on March 16, 2010.   “The company has suffered recurring losses from
operations, negative cash flows since inception and has a net
stockholders’ deficit,” PricewaterhouseCoopers said.  In June 2010, the month after Obama’s visit, Solyndra
executives withdrew a planned $300 million initial public
offering.  Value ‘Evaporated’  The challenge facing Solyndra only increased as prices of
the silicon used in conventional solar panels from  China  fell,
declining 30 percent this year, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  “When polysilicon prices dropped Solyndra’s value
proposition evaporated,” Joseph Berwind, managing partner of
Alternative Energy Investing LLC in Summit,  New Jersey , and the
author of “Investing in Solar Stocks,” said in an interview.  By December 2010, Solyndra was a month away from running
out of cash, according to a government document obtained by
Bloomberg News.  In what turned out to be a final effort to save the
company, the Energy Department agreed to take a back seat to
funds from new investors to keep the solar plant operating.  Public, Private Investors  Under the terms, $75 million in private financing will be
paid ahead of all but $150 million of the federal government’s
stake from any revenue from the sale of the company or its
assets if Solyndra is liquidated, according to the January
document. The government loaned about $527 million to the
company by the time it shut down.  Solyndra also put up more collateral to the government,
including intellectual property.  After “a due-diligence effort” to “determine if the
company still had a viable business” the Energy Department
concluded it “believes that the restructuring plan represents
the best possible course of action to achieve the highest return
on its invested capital,” according to the document.  House Republicans  noted Solyndra’s financial troubles in a
February 17 letter to Energy Secretary Chu announcing their
investigation into the loan-guarantee program.  Kaiser Investment  Since then, Republicans have pointed to connections between
Solyndra and billionaire George Kaiser, an Obama campaign
fundraiser. The  George Kaiser Family Foundation , a charitable
organization based in Tulsa,  Oklahoma , holds about 36.7 percent
of the company, according to a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Kaiser made 16 visits to the president’s
aides since 2009, according to White House visitor logs.  “George Kaiser is not an investor in Solyndra and did not
participate in any discussions with the U.S. government
regarding the loan,” the foundation said in an e-mailed
statement on Sept. 1.  As Solyndra struggled to stay afloat, it worked to reassure
lawmakers. The company spent $480,000 this year to lobby
Congress, according to Senate records.  In July, days after Republicans on the House Energy and
Commerce Committee subpoenaed the White House for documents
related to the loan guarantee, Solyndra retained Glover Park
Group LLC, a public relations and lobbying firm of former
congressional and White House aides based in  Washington , to
introduce executives to members of the committee, according to
Senate records.  Solyndra Forecasts  A July 13 letter from Solyndra to the Energy committee said
revenue had increased to $140 million from $6 million in 2008
and was projected to almost double again in 2011.  On July 21, at a news conference at Glover Park’s offices,
Solyndra Chief Executive Officer Brian Harrison said policy
makers should “separate Solyndra and its business results from
the political process that is ongoing.”  Democratic Representatives Henry Waxman of  California  and
Diana DeGette of  Colorado  said in a letter Sept. 8 that Harrison
assured them in a meeting less than two months ago that the
company was in a “strong financial position.”  The House Energy panel has asked Harrison to testify at
this week’s hearing along with Jonathan Silver, who heads the
Energy Department’s loan program, and Jeffrey Zients, deputy
director of the White House Office of Management and Budget.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  