-- 
Oil Rises a Second Day on Forecast U.S. Crude, Gasoline Stockpiles Shrank

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-09-13T07:02:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/oil-rises-a-second-day-as-europe-concern-eases-stockpiles-seen-shrinking.html
Oil rose for a second day on
speculation crude stockpiles shrank last week in the U.S., the
world’s biggest consumer of the commodity, after storms
curtailed offshore production.  Prices advanced as much as 1.2 percent before an Energy
Department report tomorrow that may show oil supplies fell for a
second week. Inventories at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery
point for New York-traded futures, dropped 4.7 percent to 33.8
million barrels on Sept. 9, according to data from DigitalGlobe
Inc. Output in the  Gulf of Mexico , which accounts for 27 percent
of U.S. supply, was cut 61 percent last week after Tropical
Storm Lee shut production platforms.  “It could be we’ll see some draws because of a blockage of
imports and a reduction of output in the Gulf,” said  Anthony Nunan , an assistant general manager for risk management at
Mitsubishi Corp. in  Tokyo . “People still feel the market
fundamentals aren’t that bad. The price structures are still
signaling a strong market.”  Crude for October delivery climbed as much as $1.02 to
$89.21 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $88.90 at 2:55 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract yesterday increased 95 cents to $88.19. Prices are 15
percent higher the past year.  Brent oil for October settlement gained as much as 87
cents, or 0.8 percent, to $113.12 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe Exchange. The European benchmark contract
closed at a premium of $24.06 to U.S. futures yesterday, the
smallest since Aug. 23 and down from a record close of $26.87 on
Sept. 6. The spread is at $24.01 today.  Brent Backwardation  The October Brent contract is at a premium of $2.09 a
barrel to the November future, the most since June 15. This
market structure, where prompt supplies are more expensive than
later deliveries, is known as backwardation and signals demand
for near-term supplies is greater than for future shipments.  The Energy Department report may show crude inventories
slid 3 million barrels last week, according to the median of 10
analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Gasoline supplies
probably fell 500,000 barrels, the survey shows. The industry-
funded  American Petroleum Institute  will report its own data
today.  Stockpiles held in floating-roof tanks at the Cushing hub
declined 1.68 million barrels, satellite images taken by the
Longmont, Colorado-based DigitalGlobe show. The Energy
Department said last week that Cushing inventories, including
floating and fixed tanks, totaled 32.7 million barrels as of
Sept. 2. Cushing is the largest crude-trading and storage hub in
the U.S. with a working storage capacity of 48 million barrels.  Libya  Output  Brent’s premium to WTI shrank yesterday after the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries said Libya will be
able to restore most of its oil output in six months.  Full production from Libya may resume in 18 months, the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries said yesterday in
its monthly report. The country may pump 1 million barrels a day
in six months, OPEC said. It was producing about 1.6 million
before fighting began between rebels and forces loyal to former
leader Col. Muammar Qaddafi.  An oil tanker is sailing to the Libyan port of Mellitah, a
sign the nation may be resuming energy exports, ship-tracking
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  