-- 
Oil Drops for Third Day on Concern Debt Crisis to Limit Growth, Fuel Need

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-09-12T12:10:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/oil-drops-for-third-day-on-concern-debt-crisis-to-limit-growth-fuel-need.html
Oil fell for a third day in  New
York , the longest losing streak in a month, as investors bet
that Europe’s debt crisis will limit economic growth. Production
resumed in the  Gulf of Mexico  as the threat of storms eased.  West Texas Intermediate crude slid as much as 2.6 percent
while equities tumbled and the euro slumped on growing
speculation that Germany is preparing for a Greek debt default.
Nate, a storm over eastern  Mexico , weakened as it moved further
inland, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said. The oversupply
of oil may disappear as the market absorbs the release of
stockpiles, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said. OPEC said Libya will
be able to restore most oil production within six months.  “The debt crisis in  Europe  is leading to fear about
economic growth,” said  Hannes Loacker , an analyst at Raiffeisen
Bank International AG in Vienna and the fifth most-accurate
forecast of Brent prices in the eight quarters to June. “If
sentiment in the equity markets remains bad, it will be tough
for oil to move higher.”  Crude for October delivery fell as much as $2.24 to $85 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $86.08 at 12:36 p.m. London time. The contract
slipped $1.81 to $87.24 on Sept. 9. Prices are 11 percent higher
than a year ago.  Brent oil for October settlement decreased $1.72, or 1.5
percent, to $111.05 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe Exchange. The European benchmark contract was at a
premium of $24.88 to U.S. futures, compared with the record
close of $26.87 on Sept. 6.  Gulf of Mexico  The euro fell to its lowest level since 2001 against the
yen and slid versus the dollar. Speculation that German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is preparing for a Greek default curbed
demand for the shared currency, limiting investor demand for
dollar-denominated oil futures as a hedge.  About 6.2 percent of oil production and 4 percent of
natural gas output from the Gulf of Mexico are still shut after
Lee battered the area, a Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, a
Regulation and Enforcement report showed Sept. 9. Nate,
downgraded to a post-tropical cyclone, was about 75 miles (120
kilometers) southwest of Tuxpan, Mexico, the U.S. National
Hurricane Center said in an advisory before 10 p.m. Mexico City
time yesterday.  Bullish Bets  Hedge funds  cut bullish bets on oil last week while
increasing those on gasoline. The funds and other large
speculators reduced wagers that prices will rise, with the
number of futures and options combined falling by 5,780, or 3.6
percent, to 155,837, according to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s Commitments of Traders report. Bets motor fuel will
rally increased by 13 percent, the data showed.  “The idea that European and U.S. economic growth is going
to be weak over the next year seems like a reasonable
forecast,” said  John Vautrain , a senior vice president at
Purvin & Gertz Inc. in  Singapore . “WTI will stay enormously
depressed, $10 to $20 a barrel or more below Brent.”  In London, money managers raised bullish bets on  Brent
crude  by 12 percent in the week ended Sept. 6, according to  data
from ICE Futures Europe .  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 72,455
contracts, the London-based exchange said today in its weekly
Commitment of Traders report. Net-long positions rose by 8,024
contracts, from 64,431 a week earlier.  Libya  Output  Libya will be able to restore most of the oil production
halted during fighting against  Muammar Qaddafi  in six months,
and resume full capacity in 18 months, according to the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. OPEC
“marginally” lowered estimates for global oil consumption in
2012, and trimmed its 2011 assessment by 150,000 barrels a day,
in a monthly report today.  Still, oil markets are likely to tighten in the remainder
of the year and into 2012 as the market absorbs additional
supplies from the release of strategic stockpiles in the U.S.,
Goldman Sachs Group said in a research note e-mailed today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  