-- 
Oil Drops a Third Day on Europe Concern; Gulf Storm Threat to Output Eases

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-09-12T07:28:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/oil-drops-a-third-day-on-europe-concern-gulf-storm-threat-to-output-eases.html
Oil declined for a third day in  New
York , the longest losing streak in a month, as investors bet
that Europe’s debt crisis will limit economic growth and demand
for fuel. Production resumed in the  Gulf of Mexico  as the threat
of storms eased.  West Texas Intermediate futures slid as much as 2.5 percent
as the euro dropped against the dollar on speculation that a
Greek default will trigger a banking crisis in Europe, limiting
the appeal of commodities. In the Gulf, Nate weakened as it
moved further inland over  Mexico , the U.S. National Hurricane
Center said. The oversupply of oil may disappear as the market
absorbs the release of stockpiles, Goldman Sachs Group said.  “Oil is highly leveraged to global growth prospects,”
said  Michael McCarthy , a chief market strategist at CMC Markets
Asia Pacific Pty Ltd. in Sydney. “Any negative sentiment around
global growth does tend to weigh on the oil price, and that’s
one of the reasons we’ve seen West Texas come off so heavily.”  Crude for October delivery fell as much as $2.18 to $85.06
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $85.21 at 5:20 p.m. Sydney time. The
contract slipped $1.81 to $87.24 on Sept. 9. Prices are 11
percent higher the past year.  Brent oil for October settlement decreased $2.09, or 1.9
percent, to $110.68 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  Exchange. The European benchmark contract was at a
premium of $25.75 to U.S. futures, compared with the record
close of $26.87 on Sept. 6.  Bullish Bets  About 6.2 percent of oil production and 4 percent of
natural gas output from the Gulf of Mexico are still shut after
Lee battered the area, a Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, a
Regulation and Enforcement report showed Sept. 9. Nate,
downgraded to a post-tropical cyclone, weakened as it moved
further inland over Mexico, the U.S. National Hurricane Center
said in an advisory before 10 p.m. Mexico City time yesterday.  Hedge funds  cut bullish bets on oil last week while
increasing those on gasoline. The funds and other large
speculators reduced wagers that prices will rise, with the
number of futures and options combined falling by 5,780, or 3.6
percent, to 155,837, according to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s Commitments of Traders report. Bets motor fuel will
rally increased by 13 percent, the data showed.  “The idea that European and U.S. economic growth is going
to be weak over the next year seems like a reasonable
forecast,” said  John Vautrain , a senior vice president at
Purvin & Gertz Inc. in  Singapore . “WTI will stay enormously
depressed, $10 to $20 a barrel or more below Brent.”  Strategic Release  Oil markets are likely to tighten over the remainder of the
year and into 2012 as the market absorbs additional supplies
from the release of strategic stockpiles in the U.S., Goldman
Sachs Group said in a research note e-mailed today.  The U.S. government released crude from the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve as part of a 30.64 million-barrel sale to
companies in cooperation with the Paris-based  International
Energy Agency . The IEA sought to counter lost Libyan output from
the conflict between rebels and the regime of  Muammar Qaddafi .  The euro fell to its lowest level since 2001 against the
yen and slid versus the dollar. Speculation that German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is preparing for a Greek default curbed
demand for the shared currency, limiting investor demand for
dollar-denominated oil futures as a hedge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  