-- 
London Subway Must Be Improved Before 2012 Games, Assembly Says

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-09-12T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/london-subway-must-be-improved-before-2012-games-assembly-says.html
London ’s subway must be improved
before the 2012 Olympics, after strikes and technical problems
meant the five months ended January were the worst performing
for the rail network in eight years, the city’s assembly said.  Labor unions and  Transport for London , which operates the
capital’s rail system, “need to reach agreement on future pay
in the run up to the 2012 Games,” the  London Assembly , a
watchdog for the city, said today in a report. TfL faces
“significant challenges” ensuring the Tube is more reliable
while upgrading older lines and cutting costs, said the
assembly, an elected body that scrutinizes the activities of the
capital city’s Mayor  Boris Johnson .  London’s subway, known as the Tube, was hit by industrial
action over the past year. A strike in June ended just as the
Wimbledon tennis championship began. Between August 2010 and
January 2011 the tube suffered from “the longest sustained
period of poor reliability since” upgrades were initiated in
2003, according to the report.  London First , a business lobby group, told the assembly
committee that “we cannot go on like this, particularly as we
approach the Olympics next year,” according to the report.
“The Greater London Authority, TfL and the unions need to
develop a much more constructive relationship and working
culture.”  While strikes accounted for about half of the increase in
delays on lines with the most delays, such as the Jubilee and
Victoria, the main cause of the increase was from the failure of
signals, trains and track, said Chair of the Transport Committee
Caroline Pidgeon in the report.  Crowded, Unpleasant  Passenger journeys on the Tube have increased by 17 percent
in the last eight years while the level of service provided rose
by 2 percent, according to the report.  “After years of disruption and huge expenditure,
passengers might reasonably expect to start seeing their
Underground journeys becoming less overcrowded and unpleasant,”
the assembly said. Yet, passengers should not expect to see
“major improvements” in capacity and total journey times
across most of the network for at least another five years, said
the assembly.  TfL should take further steps to manage overcrowding and
real-time information should be made available to passengers at
stations and alternative routes to popular destinations should
be advertised, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  