-- 
Oprah Twin Pops ‘Up All Night,’ Azaria Cries in ‘Agents’: Review

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-09-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/oprah-twin-pops-up-all-night-azaria-cries-in-agents-review.html
Behold the power of Oprah.  Maya Rudolph modifies her celebrated “Saturday Night
Live” impersonation of the talk show queen for NBC’s promising
new sitcom “Up All Night.”  She isn’t the series’ main focus -- Christina Applegate and
Will Arnett, both excellent, share the spotlight -- but
Rudolph’s Winfrey-esque character is fine support.  That should surprise critics and TV insiders who saw an
early version of “Up All Night” previewed by NBC last spring.
Rudolph’s cartoonish public relations executive in that pilot
has been excised from the version airing this week, replaced
with a toned-down version of her Oprah parody.  The change suits the show.  Aiming for the balance of edgy sophistication and
sentimentality all but perfected by ABC’s “Modern Family,”
“Up All Night” stars Applegate and Arnett as married
professionals. She works for the talk show, he’s a stay-at-home
editor. Their well-ordered lives are upended by the smiley face
appearing on a home pregnancy test stick.  Diaper changes are no funnier now than they were for
“Three Men and a Baby,” but at least “Up All Night”
dispatches the newbie-parent gags quickly.  Arnett (“Arrested Development,” “30 Rock”) downplays
his usual shark-like intensity without turning the nervous dad
into a babbling idiot. Applegate, a producer of the series
(created by Emily Spivey), is charming and credible.  Where “Up All Night” goes once Amy starts sleeping till
morning is anyone’s guess, but this cast is worth following.  “Up All Night” previews Wednesday on NBC at 10 p.m.  New
York  time (regular time slot will be 8 p.m.). Rating: ***  ‘Free Agents’  Alex (Hank Azaria) is a newly divorced guy who cries after
sex. Helen (Kathryn Hahn), his coworker and occasional bedmate,
swills booze as she pines for a dead fiance.  And it’s not even as funny as it sounds.  Set in a glitzy crisis-management public relations firm,
“Free Agents” crams its half-hour pilot with more star-crossed
vibes than the entire first season of “Cheers.” And yet it’s
an oddly dismal affair.  Azaria has put his hound dog eyes and hangdog personality
to better use elsewhere, and his lack of chemistry with the
brittle Hahn promises little sizzle.  Based on a British sitcom, “Free Agents” staffs Alex’s
fictional office with remarkably unappealing characters. Sassy,
self-entitled assistant? Womanizing frat-boy lug? Horny nerd?
Check, check and check, and time for a new job.  “Free Agents” previews Wednesday at 10:30 p.m. New York
time (regular time slot is 8:30 p.m). Rating: *1/2  ‘Long Distance Warrior’  AT&T’s potential acquisition of T-Mobile notwithstanding,
the power once held by Ma Bell might be unfathomable to anyone
who never stuck a finger in a rotary dial.  “Long Distance Warrior,” a persuasive, if staid,
documentary airing on PBS World and other public stations this
month, recalls a time when everyone got the joke behind Lily
Tomlin’s dictatorial Ernestine the Operator bit. And when Bill
McGowan made headlines.  Bill who? “Long Distance Warrior” calls McGowan “the
most famous corporate leader you’ve never heard of,” and builds
a strong case for his impact on the 21st century information
age.  McGowan, who died in 1992, was the founder and chairman of
MCI Communications, and the force behind the company’s decade-
long battle to break up AT&T’s de facto telephone monopoly.  “Warrior” argues that McGowan’s obsession with opening
the telephone industry to competition paved the way for
everything from affordable long-distance to e-mail (the barely
remembered MCI Mail was a pioneer in the field).  Directed by Sarah Holt for  American Public Television , the
film itself is workmanlike -- the usual mix of talking head
interviews and old TV clips. Intensely private, workaholic
McGowan’s personal life is barely explored, and his less-than-
telegenic persona barely carries the hour.  “Long Distance Warrior” rests on his accomplishments,
which proves just enough.  “Long Distance Warrior” airs tomorrow on PBS World at 8
p.m. New York time. Rating: **1/2  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 