-- 
Hungary to Force Banks to Foot Franc Losses, Irking Austria

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-09-12T17:15:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/orban-says-feasible-to-fix-franc-rate-on-hungary-loans.html
Hungary  is set to force lenders to
swallow currency losses on Swiss franc mortgages. Financial
stocks and the forint fell as the country’s banks and the
Austrian government criticized the plan.  Hungary wants to allow fixing the Swiss franc at more than
20 percent below market rates for early repayment, Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  said today in parliament. Austria “firmly
rejects” the measure, which may cause “enormous losses” to
banks and risks regional financial stability, Finance Minister
Maria Fekter said today.  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI)  dropped, while Hungary’s risk rose.  “It tells foreign banks that they can go to hell, which in
the long run is extremely negative,”  Daniel Bebesy , who helps
oversee $1.5 billion mostly in Hungarian  government bonds  at
Budapest Investment Management, said in a telephone interview.  Hungary, where two-thirds of  mortgage loans  are denominated
in Swiss francs, is struggling to reduce its exposure to
currency swings and help borrowers after the Alpine country’s
currency rose to a record, triggering defaults and pushing up
monthly payments. Today’s plan is “unacceptable” to lenders,
the Hungarian Banking Association said.  A request by Orban to legislators to not force lenders to
issue forint loans may limit the market impact of the plan as
most Hungarians don’t have savings to repay loans in a lump sum,
according to Bebesy at Budapest Investment Management.  Stocks, Forint, CDS  OTP Bank Nyrt. and Foldhitel es Jelzalogbank Nyrt.  were
suspended for today’s session before the start of trading.
Hungary’s benchmark BUX stock index dropped 2.9 percent to
16,540.74, its lowest since July 29, 2009.  Raiffeisen fell as much as 10.2 percent in Vienna, trading
down 4.3 percent at 23.455 euros by 5:39 p.m., the lowest since
June 2009. Erste was down 5.4 percent at the lowest since July
2009. Their Hungarian units are among the country’s six largest
lenders.  The forint fell as much as 1.3 against the euro and traded
down 0.6 percent at 281.9 by 5:37 p.m. in Budapest. The
Hungarian currency declined 0.9 percent against the Swiss franc
to 233.9. Hungary’s credit-default swap rose 13 basis points to
457, the highest since April 2009.  The government will allow borrowers to modify loan
contracts and is preparing to respond to a backlash from abroad
that may include lawsuits, Orban said. The Cabinet backs OTP,
Hungary’s largest lender, and mortgage lender FHB, while foreign
banks stand behind their Hungarian units, he said.  Economic Consequences  The plan to fix exchange rates at 180 forint per franc and
250 forint per euro, proposed by Orban’s ruling party last week,
poses a “significant threat” to the financial industry and the
wider economy, the Banking Association said in a statement
today. The lenders are “ready” to turn to Hungary’s
Constitutional Court and the European Union to fight the
measure, it said.  OTP competes mostly with units of international banks,
including Raiffeisen, Erste,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Bayerische
Landesbank .  “Forcing market participants to take enormous losses on
their books through legally decreed prices and exchange rates is
not acceptable practice in a market economy, and is in
contravention of all expectations an investor may have in a
functioning market economy and democracy,” Fekter said in a
letter to Hungarian Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy , according
to an e-mailed statement.  ‘Crossed a Line’  Erste had 3 billion euros ($4.1 billion) in Swiss franc
loans outstanding in Hungary at the end of June, while
Raiffeisen had 1.6 billion euros. Other international banks with
units in Hungary include  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , Bayerische Landesbank and
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA. (ISP)   “The market didn’t explode, that’s the good news,“Gabor Orban, who helps manage $2.5 billion at Aegon Fund Management in
Budapest, said in a telephone interview. “The economic impact
is smaller than if they had forced lenders to give out forint
loans. Still, the impact on their credibility is the same:
they’ve crossed a line.”  Premier Orban roiled markets last year by effectively
nationalizing private pension funds, levying extraordinary taxes
on banks, energy, retail and telecommunication companies to plug
budget holes, curbing the power of the Constitutional Court,
eliminating an independent Fiscal Council and creating a media
watchdog staffed by his allies.  Franc-Fixing  The franc-fixing plan for mortgage repayments is the latest
attempt to help borrowers, many of whom took out loans at about
150 forint per franc and are struggling with their payments as
investors sought to place funds in Swiss francs to avoid riskier
euros and dollars. Hungary is preparing for possible speculative
attacks on the forint from abroad, Orban said today.  The government agreed with lenders in May to offer
household borrowers who aren’t late with repayments the chance
to fix a franc exchange rate of 180 forint for their
installments until the end of 2014. The difference between the
fixed-rate payments and those that would have resulted under
actual exchange rates will be recorded in separate forint
accounts to be settled from 2015.  That proposal only offered a “temporary solution” and the
people’s demand for a “permanent solution beyond a temporary
one is justified,” Orban said Sept. 2.  Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman for the European Commission
in Brussels, declined to immediately comment on the Hungarian
measures.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  