-- 
More Job Cuts Loom for Europe’s Banks Locked Into Higher Pay

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 
2011-09-13T10:08:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/more-job-cuts-loom-for-european-banks-locked-into-higher-pay.html
European banks may resort to more
jobs cuts or zero bonuses as they struggle to maintain fixed
compensation levels amid deteriorating financial markets.  The companies are facing shrinking revenue and higher costs
after raising base salaries of investment bankers by as much as
100 percent. That decision, which followed regulations to curb
bonuses in the wake of the credit crisis, is irreversible even
if conditions worsen, lawyers and consultants said, leaving
banks with fewer options in their bid to improve margins.  “The absolute last thing banks will want to do is cut
current salaries unless they have an explicit contractual right
to do so,” said Jason Butwick, a London employment attorney at
law firm Dechert LLP. “The legal, reputational, commercial and
logistical risks of going down that route are huge.”  European banks including  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  have announced more than 70,000 job cuts since midyear,
compared with 42,000 by U.S. peers, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Nomura Holdings Inc.,  Japan ’s largest brokerage, plans to
cut about 5 percent of jobs in  Europe , two people with knowledge
of the matter said today. Fewer than 400 positions will be
eliminated globally, with the majority in Europe, one of the
people said, declining to be identified because the information
is confidential.  Costs on Rise  Compensation cost as a percentage of net income at the 20
largest investment banks will increase for a second year to 65
percent in 2011 from 55 percent in 2009, Barclays Capital
analysts said in an Aug. 10 report. It could be more than 80
percent at the investment-banking units of UBS and Credit
Suisse, both based in Zurich, and Tokyo-based  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604) , the analysts said.  Banks are struggling with slower economic growth and a
spreading debt crisis that is sapping confidence in Europe’s
financial institutions. Combined revenue for the 20 largest
global investment banks was down 8 percent in the first half,
after a 23 percent drop in the same period last year, the
Barclays analysts said.  The 46-company Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index has fallen 38 percent this year.  ‘Fewer Bonuses’  Jonathan Nicholson, managing director of Astbury Marsden, a
London executive-search firm, said more job losses are imminent.  “There are fewer bonuses to play with than ever before,”
Nicholson said. “The fixed costs are now about 70 percent to 80
percent of overall total compensation, so you have less to play
with the bonus pool than ever before. The only material way to
make a difference in flexing costs is to cut jobs.”  Spokesmen for UBS, Nomura, RBS, HSBC, Barclays and Credit
Suisse in  London  declined to comment on plans to reduce costs
through cuts in jobs or compensation.  The rise in fixed costs is driven by an increase in base
salaries after European regulators, including those in the U.K.
and  France , restricted when and in what form bankers can be
paid. The average base salary of a managing director at a global
investment bank in London surged to between 300,000 pounds
($474,480) and 500,000 pounds from 175,000 pounds to 250,000
pounds three years ago, said  Jason Kennedy , chief executive
officer of Kennedy Group, a London-based search firm.  Total Compensation Falls  Fixed-compensation costs, which include salaries and
deferred bonuses, rose to 82 percent of total pay at Credit
Suisse in 2010 from 66 percent in 2009, according to a JPMorgan
Cazenove report in June. At UBS’s investment-banking division,
fixed compensation rose to 65 percent from 55 percent in 2009,
according to the report.  Total compensation for investment-bank employees has
decreased since 2007. Workers at UBS’s investment-banking
division were paid an average of 399,940 Swiss francs ($454,790)
in 2010 compared with 474,968 francs in 2007, according to the
annual report. Average pay at Credit Suisse’s investment bank
fell to 388,067 francs in 2010 from 494,708 francs in 2007. At
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , average pay dropped to $430,700 in
2010 from $661,490 in 2007, according to the annual report.  Pay Restrictions  Banks in Europe are balancing the need to retain talent and
control costs as they comply with new pay regulations and
 capital requirements . In December, the European Union’s
Committee of European Banking Supervisors issued rules limiting
bankers to receiving about 25 percent of their bonuses in
immediate cash payouts, with the rest deferred or held in shares
for a minimum of three years. Bonus awards should be split
between stock and cash, and at least half of each segment of the
bonus must be deferred at least three years, regulators said.  In the U.K., banks with consumer and securities units will
have to capitalize them separately by 2019 to shield customers
and taxpayers from the consequences of a financial crisis under
proposals made yesterday in a report by the government-appointed
 Independent Commission on Banking . The plans would add as much
as 7 billion pounds in costs, the report said.  Salary reductions could cause “an enormous public-
relations problem,” said Mark Mansell, an employment lawyer at
Allen & Overy LLP in London. They could also lead to a talent
exodus, said  Andrew Evans , chief operations officer of the
financial-services unit at search firm Morgan McKinley.  “Continued turbulence in global financial markets is
definitely putting pressure on banks’ staff costs,” Evans said.
“However, simply reducing salaries could result in the loss of
top talent.”  Employment Law  A top trader at a large hedge fund might expect to take
home 15 percent to 20 percent of what he makes for his employer
compared with 12 percent to 15 percent at a big investment bank,
according to Kennedy.  “Financially, banks today cannot compete with  hedge
funds ,” he said.  Cutting salaries is also complicated under U.K. employment
law, according to lawyers and pay consultants.  While banks can ask employees to accept pay cuts, they
can’t impose them easily if bankers refuse, Dechert’s Butwick
said. Any firm looking to reduce the salaries of more than 19
people must undertake a 90-day consultation, which is likely to
be made public and reflect badly on the bank, he said. If banks
terminate contracts and ask employees to sign new ones, they
would be open to claims of unfair dismissal, Butwick said.  Goldman Sachs Cuts  “The real action of cost-cutting will be around bonus
pools and headcount,” said Tom Gosling, a partner in the
rewards practice at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in London.
“There’s a lot of nervousness. If we do get a full-blown
banking crisis, then the bonus round will be very bad. There
will be a much stronger divide between high earners and everyone
else, and a big jump in the number of zero bonuses.”  One option is for banks to insert a clause into contracts
giving them power to reduce base salaries after a set period or
in the event of a decline in trading conditions.  Goldman Sachs is one of the few banks that did that. The
New York-based company will cut the salaries of some London
employees who received temporary increases in 2009, a person
with knowledge of the matter said last month. Less than half the
firm’s London workers got raises that are set to expire, said
the person, who declined to be identified because the firm’s pay
practices are private. Joanna Carss, a spokeswoman for Goldman
Sachs in London, declined to comment.  Lloyd C. Blankfein, Goldman Sachs’s chairman and CEO,
warned against raising base salaries on  Wall Street  in a June
16, 2010, interview with staff of the U.S. Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission.  ‘Poor Direction’  “Salary is another form of guarantee, so we would like low
salaries and high contingent comp,” Blankfein, 56, said at the
time, referring to compensation based on performance. “We think
the world is going in a poor direction.”  Switzerland ’s bank-personnel association, which represents
workers, demanded “symmetry in sacrifice” after UBS and Credit
Suisse, the nation’s biggest banks, announced staff reductions.  “Any job cuts have to be linked with a 10 percent cut of
the highest salaries,” the group said in a statement Aug. 23 in
response to UBS’s plan to slash 3,500 positions. The association
also asked Credit Suisse to stop “excessive payments” to
executives after the bank said in July it would cut 2,000 jobs.  Credit Suisse CEO Brady Dougan’s 2010 pay was reduced 34
percent to 12.8 million Swiss francs after profit declined. The
bank’s 16-member executive board received total pay of 160.3
million francs, up from 148.9 million francs received by 13
people in 2009.  New Hires  Oswald Gruebel , 67, CEO of UBS, decided to forgo a bonus
again in 2010 because the company’s shares didn’t rise. He
received 3 million francs in base salary and 25,600 francs of
benefits in kind. The company’s 13-person executive board
received combined compensation of 91 million francs for 2010,
compared with 68.7 million francs the previous year.  U.K. financial-services firms have reduced pay for new
employees. The average salaries for newly hired financial-
services workers in London slipped in the first half of 2011 to
53,461 pounds from 53,470 pounds in the second half of last
year, estimates by Morgan McKinley show.  “Deep down, everyone knows there needs to be a resetting
of compensation practices,” said PwC’s Gosling. “It will take
time to come through, but that will mean more differentiation
within and between firms, more zero bonuses and more awards
where pay is contingent on certain conditions being met.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  