-- 
House’s Frank Renews Push to Oust Regional Presidents From FOMC Decisions

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-09-12T20:05:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/house-s-frank-renews-push-to-oust-regional-presidents-from-fomc.html
U.S. Representative  Barney Frank ,
the top Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, is
renewing a push to remove Federal Reserve regional presidents
from voting on central bank interest-rate decisions.  Frank, of  Massachusetts , will submit a new version of
legislation to cut the voting rights of five rotating regional
representatives from the 12-member Federal Open Markets
Committee, he said today. The revision of Frank’s May proposal
calls for replacing them with four presidential appointees,
according to a position paper released by his office.  Eliminating regional presidents, who are selected by board
members of their banks and approved by Fed governors, will make
interest-rate votes more democratic, Frank said in the paper.
The 7-3 vote at the last FOMC meeting in August underlined the
need to replace the presidents, who have become a “significant
constraint on national economic policy making,” he said.  Regional presidents “are neither elected nor appointed by
officials who are themselves elected,” Frank wrote in the
paper. “They are part of a self-perpetuating group of private
citizens who select each other and who are treated as equals in
setting federal monetary policy with officials appointed by the
President and confirmed by the Senate.”  The revisions address concerns that the input of regional
representatives would go unheeded, while also adding a diversity
of viewpoints, said Frank, whose May proposal has yet to attract
co-sponsors.  Thomas Hoenig , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
 Kansas City , told reporters at the time that changing the makeup
of the FOMC would be “a tragic mistake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  