-- 
Houston Purchasing Managers Index for August (Text)

-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 
2011-09-12T11:25:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/houston-purchasing-managers-index-for-august-text-.html
Following is the text from the
Houston purchasing managers report.  HOUSTON ECONOMY REBOUNDS!
Purchases and Employment were the Leading Indicators  Houston reported this month that the Houston Purchasing
Managers Index PMI was 61.3 for August 2011. Economic activity
in the Houston area has been positive for the last twenty-two
consecutive months and has taken a positive turn from the pull
back last month. The PMI is back above 60 again after one month
below in that range.  The PMI, which indicates likely shifts in Production volume
three or four months in advance, now shows a signal that
production is still on the mend. The PMI has a possible range of
0 to 100.  Readings over 50 indicate production gains over the
near term; readings below 50, show coming contraction.  The Houston PMI is based on diffusion indexes for eight
indicators. (A diffusion index is simply the percentage of
respondents reporting increases from the previous month less the
percentage reporting declines.) The Houston PMI which is based
on eight components seven of the eight categories reported an
improvement from July to August.  Purchases and Employment were the leading indicators for
August. Purchases increased 23 PMI points to 33 for August.
Employment rose from 23 to 33 PMI points. These categories are
at their highest level for 2011 after slipping last month.
Finished goods Inventory is the ONLY category that remained the
same for the period, which was at -15 in June after dropping
over the last two months.  Production climbed 7 points to 30 PMI. Prices Paid at 30
PMI also rose 7 points for August, while Lead Times had a hike
of 5 points to 10. All these are increases are a good signs for
future production increases.  Forty-three percent of our participants responded that
prices increased from last month and 13% had prices fall. This
is the second lowest point for 2011, but still higher then all
of 2010.  Inflation is definitely evident in the responses.  The latest Employment numbers indicate that our
respondent’s employment Increased 40%, with only 8% reducing
staff in July. This total number indicates employment is
improving and is at the highest level for 2010 and 2011. Ninety-
three percent of the respondents had Increased or the Same
Employment levels. This remains to be good news for those
looking for jobs.  The Houston PMI has averaged 58.5 over the last twelve
months. There has been an improvement in the PMI number of 36.4%
since March, 2009 the low point for recent times.  The  Institute for Supply Management  - Houston has published
the Houston Purchasing Managers Index monthly since January 1995
as a service to its members and the wider Houston business
community.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management
 http://www.ism.ws  