-- 
BofA to Cede Top Rank as Moynihan Disowns Bigger-Is-Better

-- B y   H u g h   S o n ,   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-09-12T12:30:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/moynihan-cedes-top-rank-as-bank-of-america-disowns-stupid-business-plan-.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest
U.S. lender by assets, will likely lose that distinction as
Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  partly dismantles the
money-losing empire built by his predecessor.  The firm previously was No. 1 in deposits, mortgage lending
and credit cards. Those honors are already gone as Moynihan
trims operations added by former CEO  Kenneth D. Lewis  at a cost
of more than $130 billion. When Moynihan is done with his
reorganization plan, called Project New BAC, the bank will have
pared its workforce by tens of thousands and probably
relinquished its lead in assets, jobs and mortgage servicing.  Being the biggest doesn’t matter, Moynihan said in an
interview last week. Project New BAC, details of which the CEO
may disclose today at a New York investor conference, is
designed to make the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank easier
to manage, more focused -- and smaller, said Moynihan, 51.
That’s fine with Rebel Cole, a former Federal Reserve economist.  “What kind of stupid business plan is it to be the
biggest?” said Cole, now a finance professor at DePaul
University in  Chicago . “I’d much rather be the most profitable.
They wanted to be the biggest and show they could beat  Wall
Street  at its own game -- and they did it until Lewis let his
ego destroy the company.”  Shareholder Revolt  Making Bank of America larger was a hallmark of Lewis, who
was CEO from 2001 through the end of 2009. Lewis, 64, took over
industry leaders that ranged from credit-card vendor MBNA Corp.
to mortgage lender Countrywide Financial Corp. and acquired
securities firm Merrill Lynch & Co. The first two led to
operating losses and writedowns totaling about $50 billion; the
Merrill deal triggered a U.S. bailout and shareholder revolt
that led to Lewis’s departure.  Mary Jo White, an attorney at Debevoise & Plimpton LLP who
has represented Lewis, didn’t respond to phone and e-mail
messages. An attempt to reach Lewis through Bank of America
wasn’t successful.  Fed officials support Moynihan’s plan for shrinking the
company and selling assets, according to regulators familiar
with the bank. That’s consistent with a view in the Fed system
and among regulators globally that the biggest lenders need to
simplify their operations. Lewis had also added LaSalle bank in
2007, and FleetBoston Financial Corp. in 2004 for more than $45
billion.  Moynihan’s sales have impressed investors such as J. Dale Harvey, founder of  Pasadena , California-based Poplar Forest
Capital, who said the CEO’s strategy is appropriate.  ‘Unfortunate Reality’  “He’s focusing on the long-term franchise businesses and
getting rid of assets that don’t fit,” said Harvey, whose firm
owns Bank of America shares. “The unfortunate reality is he’s
had to spend the bulk of his time cleaning up messes made by his
predecessor.”  Shares of Bank of America have declined 48 percent this
year through Sept. 9 as investors focused on costs tied to the
2008 takeover of Countrywide and speculated the lender may issue
new stock to bolster capital. The lender slipped 28 cents to
$6.70 in early trading at 8:23 a.m. in  New York .  Bank of America became the largest home lender when it
bought Countrywide, only to cede the title to San Francisco-
based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  Moynihan’s bank slipped to No. 2 in
deposits at midyear behind New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
and Wells Fargo’s expanding branch network has eclipsed all
others as Bank of America was closing unwanted retail locations.  Measured by assets, Bank of America remained first as of
June 30 with $2.26 trillion, just ahead of JPMorgan’s $2.25
trillion. In terms of market value, Bank of America was fourth
as of Sept. 9 at $70.7 billion. JPMorgan was the most valuable
commercial bank at $125.1 billion, followed by Wells Fargo at
$124.2 billion and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  at $78 billion.  Largest Employer  As of midyear, Bank of America still ranked as the largest
employer among U.S. lenders with about 288,000 people. Wells
Fargo and New York-based Citigroup followed, with more than
260,000 employees each at the end of June. JPMorgan, the most
profitable  U.S. bank , had about 250,000 workers.  Bank of America last employed fewer than 280,000 at the end
of 2008, when the staff was about 243,000, company filings show.  Moynihan said last month during a conference call held by
fund manager  Bruce Berkowitz  that the firm intended to shutter
750 branches over the next few years. Bank of America had 5,742
banking centers as of June. Moynihan is scheduled to speak at 9
a.m. today in New York at a conference held by  Barclays Capital .  ‘Banks are Shrinking’  “The last thing the administration wants them to do is
have headcount reductions, especially in North Carolina, which
is a huge swing state,” said  Matt McCormick , a  money manager 
and bank analyst at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor Inc., which
oversees $4 billion. “The financial industry is shrinking and
banks are shrinking and part of it is because the government
says, ‘We want you guys to be like utilities.’”  Moynihan has sold off about $40 billion in assets plus a $5
billion preferred share stake to  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. Cole at DePaul University said Bank of America may
still wind up needing federal help, something Moynihan vowed
would never happen again.  “At some point, being too big is being too unwieldy and
too difficult to govern; Moynihan has had that epiphany,” Cole
said. “The only thing you get from being the biggest is ‘too-
big-to-fail,’ and they have that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 