-- 
Palestinians Look to Friendly UN on Statehood Unswayed by U.S. Objections

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-09-12T15:04:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/palestinians-see-a-friendly-un-for-statehood-unswayed-by-u-s-.html
As the Palestinian leaders prepare
to  plead their case  for statehood recognition at the United
Nations, they see it as an encouraging sign that Arab nations
will be heading both the Security Council and the General
Assembly.  “The stars are aligned in our favor and this happy
coincidence just proves history is on our side,”  Riyad Mansour ,
the Palestinians’ UN envoy charged to rally support for a
resolution upgrading Palestinian UN status, said in a Sept. 9
interview in New York.  Lebanon , the only Arab country in the 15-member Security
Council, presides this month in the group. Qatar takes over the
 yearlong presidency  of the 193-member General Assembly next
week, shortly before Palestinian Authority leader Mahmoud Abbas
will walk on the podium to tell attending world leaders why
Palestine should join the ranks of member states.  Israel  was
accepted into the fold in 1948.  For the 76-year-old Palestinian leader, scheduled to
address the General Assembly on Sept. 23, it’s a congenial
atmosphere, even though that does little to improve the odds of
a Palestinian-state resolution getting through the  Security
Council , where the U.S. has said it will deploy its veto.  Both U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu have said that establishment of a Palestinian
state, living in peace alongside Israel, should be worked out
through direct negotiations. Peace talks broke down last
September when Netanyahu refused to extend a partial 10-month
construction freeze in  West Bank  settlements and the
Palestinians said they wouldn’t resume talks as long as building
continues.  ‘Negative Consequences’  The Palestinian leaders decided to act on their long-
threatened statehood effort as a pro-democracy wave of popular
uprisings has swept away long-standing regimes in Tunisia, Egypt
and  Libya . In doing so, they are defying U.S. objections and a
threat from Congress to cut aid.  In Cairo today at a meeting with the 22-member Arab League,
Abbas is expected to unveil specifics about how he plans to
proceed, Mansour said.  His two options, which are not mutually exclusive, are to
take a stab in the Security Council for full member-state
recognition -- in the face of a U.S. veto threat -- or to seek a
vote in the General Assembly to upgrade the Palestinian
Authority’s observer status from “entity” to “non-member
state.”  A General Assembly vote to grant UN recognition of a
Palestinian state would set back U.S. Mideast diplomacy. Taking
the matter to the UN “is ultimately a self-defeating course,”
U.S. Ambassador to the UN,  Susan Rice , told reporters today in
 Washington . “A showdown in  New York  could have adverse,
negative consequences.”  Defying U.S.  The Obama administration has been trying to ward off a
showdown over the issue at the UN, a setting historically
sympathetic to the Palestinians. About 140 of the 193 member
states are likely to support the bid for statehood recognition
in the General Assembly, Palestinian negotiator Nabil Shaath
said Sept. 4.  Obama’s Middle East envoy, David Hale, failed to persuade
Abbas to drop the UN bid at a meeting last week. Middle East
envoy  Tony Blair , representing the quartet of the U.S., the
European Union, the UN and  Russia , is still working on a deal to
restart peace talks with Israel and derail a vote on statehood.  “They are cooking something,” Abbas said in a Sept. 8
interview at his office in the West Bank city of  Ramallah . He
said the package would have to be based on the West Bank’s 1967
borders with agreed-upon land swaps and include a freeze on
Jewish settlement construction, which Netanyahu has rejected.  Well-Placed Friends  For Abbas, the timing for a membership bid is ideal from a
procedural standpoint.  Last time Arab nations held both UN leadership seats was in
December 2006, when Qatar took the helm at the Security Council
and Bahrain presided over the General Assembly. There have only
been  four other presidencies  in the UN’s 66-year history that
befell Middle Eastern countries: Bahrain in 2006,  Iraq  in 1982,
Lebanon in 1958 and  Iran  in 1950.  In the case of Qatar, the man in the hot seat then and also
today is Nassir Al-Nasser, a 57-year-old diplomat who has served
as his country’s envoy to the UN for more than a decade.  On getting elected as president of the General Assembly in
June, Al-Nasser was asked by reporters about the intentions of
the  Palestinian Authority . He was  non-committal  and said it was
up to member states to make their own decisions. His government
has come out in support of the membership bid.  Syria Complications  Lebanese ambassador Nawaf Salam inherits the rotating
presidency of the Security Council at an awkward time, given his
country’s pro-Syria government. The decision-making body is
discussing a resolution backed by the U.S. and European nations
to impose sanctions on Syrian President Bashar al-Assad over a
six-month crackdown that has killed more than 3,000 people.  Still, the diplomat airs his views on Palestinian
statehood.  “We recognize the state of Palestine and the majority of
UN members state have recognized the state of  Palestine ,” he
told reporters on Sept. 2 on his debut as president. “We
believe that international community should join efforts to help
the Palestinians end the occupation of their territory and to be
able to gain its independence.”  The Palestinians have long lobbied individual nations to
recognize a Palestinian state.  122 Nations  On July 27 in the West Bank city of Ramallah, Abbas told
the Palestine Liberation Organization Central Council, which
acts as a legislative body, that 122 nations have recognized
their state within the boundaries that existed before the 1967
Middle East war, which include the West Bank, Gaza and east
 Jerusalem , according to the Jerusalem Post.  Netanyahu has agreed in principle to a Palestinian state,
subject to security guarantees and Palestinian recognition that
Israel is a “Jewish state.” He has resisted Obama’s formula of
accepting a Palestinian state within the 1967 lines that would
involve negotiated land swaps to adjust for major Jewish
settlements in the West Bank and security needs. The future of
east Jerusalem, annexed by Israel, is one of the most
contentious issues in the  peace process .  The General Assembly can’t compel an individual UN member
nation, such as the  United States , to recognize a state of
Palestine. “On the contrary,” said Jim Phillips, an analyst at
the Heritage Foundation in Washington, “member states may
completely ignore or disregard any GA vote on recognition of
Palestinian statehood as they often do other resolutions.”  Israel may respond to Palestinian statehood efforts by
taking steps that hurt the “sustainability” of a Palestinian
government, Deputy Prime Minister Moshe Yaalon said at a
conference today, without giving details.  Separately, lawmaker Ofir Akunis, a member of Netanyahu’s
Likud party, said Israel should formally annex the West Bank if
Palestinian leaders declare establishment of an independent
state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  