-- 
Perry Leaves More Children Behind as Cuts Squeeze Texas Schools

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/perry-leaves-more-children-behind-as-budget-cuts-squeeze-schools-in-texas.html
At San Antonio’s McCollum High
School, budget cuts pushed through by Texas Governor  Rick Perry 
this year meant no money for a tutoring program that helped
teenagers in one of the state’s poorest districts keep up.  “Sometimes that’s the only way a student can pass a class,
if they get that extra help,” said Kandice Casias, 17, a
McCollum senior. “When I found out it was taken away, I was
kind of like, ‘Wow, some of those students were really
struggling.’”  Schools have become a focal point for Perry’s critics since
his bid for the Republican presidential nomination. After gains
on test scores in the first half of his decade-long tenure as
governor, progress in the past five years has stalled. Budget
cuts this year dented Perry’s reputation for supporting the
state’s educational system.  Perry, 61, who is leading in polls of the Republican
presidential candidates, is running on his record as leader of
 Texas , which he says has created more new jobs in the past
decade than any other state. Yet some say the gains have come
from a low-tax environment that has strained the state’s
educational system.  At McCollum, part of the Harlandale Independent School
District, teachers and administrators are stretching their
dollars this year after the state cut the per-pupil funding by
about 6 percent. Harlandale is budgeting $108 million this year,
down $5.4 million from its projected spending level, forcing it
to hold off on additional hiring, limit pay raises and rely more
on reserves to fund basic programs.  ‘More With Less’  “I wish Governor Perry would come visit our schools and
see what our students do on a daily basis and how they do more
with less,” Superintendent Robert Jaklich said in an interview.
“I’d ask him, ‘Please don’t take advantage of us anymore.’”  Texas ranks 41st in per-pupil spending and 36th in high-
school graduation rates, according to  data  compiled by the
National Center for Education Statistics. Perry defended his
record in a Sept. 7 Republican debate in Simi Valley,
 California .  “The reductions that we made were thoughtful reductions,”
Perry said. “I stand by a record from what we’ve done with the
resources that we’ve had, and I think that the reductions that
we put in place were absorbed by our schools and we will
continue to have one of the finest workforces made available.”  ‘Made Great Progress’  Perry argued that his state had “made great progress”
during his 10 years as governor. He cited a high-school
graduation rate of 84 percent and scores by 4th grade and 8th
grade African-American and Hispanic students that “were some of
the highest in the country.”  “Texas has really struggled, and I feel very, very badly
for the children there,” U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan
said in an Aug. 19 interview on Bloomberg Television’s Political
Capital With Al Hunt. “Far too few of their high-school
graduates are actually prepared to go on to college.”  Starting in 2000, when he became governor, Perry benefited
from educational gains started by his predecessor, former
Republican Governor  George Bush  from 1992, said Andrew
Rotherham, co-founder of Bellwether Education Partners, a
research group in  Washington , and a former aide to President
 Bill Clinton .  “You can make a case that Perry is basically coasting on
what Bush did,” Rotherham said. “The momentum is slowing and
you haven’t seen in Texas over the last decade the urgency you
saw under Bush.”  Gains Slow  Texas’s gains on National Assessment of Educational
Progress tests have slowed in recent years after strong
improvement early in Perry’s tenure, said Sandy Kress, an Austin
lawyer who was a senior adviser to Bush and has talked with
Perry about education issues.  “There’s been a little bit of plateauing,” said Kress,
senior counsel at Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP. “I’ve
seen some mixed signals in the last five years.”  Yet Perry deserves credit for blocking efforts to weaken
Texas’s graduation standards and promoting more science and
mathematics education, Kress said.  “Perry has not been as activist as Bush, but his policies
have been constructive and helpful,” he said. “Texans are
pretty tight-fisted and they pride themselves on efficiency and
good results more than spending money.”  State Aid  After a 2006 overhaul of the state’s education-financing
system, public schools in Texas rely less on property taxes and
more on state aid. Perry led the effort that resulted in the
change to resolve lawsuits alleging inadequate funding of
schools with smaller property-tax bases. Business levies, a
linchpin of the new system, have missed forecasts by billions of
dollars, both Republicans and Democrats in the Legislature say.  “We won the lawsuit in 2005 and then in 2006 we wound up
with a system that was worse than before,” John Folks,
superintendent of  San Antonio ’s Northside Independent School
District, said in an interview. “We have a very inequitable and
inadequate system and we’ve made it more inequitable and
inadequate.”  Northside, with about 97,300 students and growing by about
3,000 each year, will get $260 less per student this year than
in 2006, Folks said. Property levies were raised 1 cent per $100
of value to about $1.38 for the district, where the average
residence is valued at almost $161,400.  Job Cuts  The district, with the best performance scores among the
state’s largest systems, cut 973 jobs as it reduced its $1
billion budget by $61.4 million to absorb a drop in state
funding, according to an Aug. 31 statement on Northside’s
website. While many employees had to switch jobs, none were
dismissed.  Class sizes also rose modestly in the district, Folks said.  Yet the state’s system outperforms  national averages  in
math scores and isn’t far behind in reading and science,
according to ACT Inc., an independent testing organization based
in  Iowa  City, Iowa.  The dropout rate for the class of 2010 was 7.3 percent,
down from 9.4 percent a year earlier, state figures show.
Graduates in 2011 scored an average of 21.5 on the math part of
ACT’s college-entrance exam, up from 20.8 in 2007 and better
than this year’s national average of 21.1.  While just 24 percent of Texas high-school graduates are
college-ready, based on ACT estimates, that’s not much worse
than the 25 percent  national average .  California Comparison  With Hispanics accounting for 49 percent of enrollment in
Texas schools, comparing it to other states can be misleading.
Pairing it with California, another large state with a
substantial Latino population, McKinsey & Co. said the Lone Star
State ranked higher on standardized 4th- and 8th-grade
mathematics tests, based on 2007 scores.  “Texas students are, on average, one to two years of
learning ahead of California students of the same age, even
though Texas has less income per capita and spends less per
pupil than California,” McKinsey said in an April 2009 study.
Whites, Latinos and blacks all outscored their Golden State
counterparts, according to the New York-based consulting firm.  In Harlandale, with a tax base that ranks among the state’s
smallest, 13 of 19 schools got top ratings from the state, up
from seven in 2008, Jaklich said. Latinos make up 98 percent of
the district’s approximately 13,400 students and almost all
qualify for a free or reduced-price lunch, he said.  Part of the district’s financial squeeze stems from a drop
in state aid after Perry signed a two-year budget that failed to
cover federal subsidy cuts and didn’t include money for rising
enrollment. That left schools to make do with $4 billion less
than projected, based on previous formulas.  With Perry and Texas legislative leaders opposed to raising
taxes or using reserves for more school spending, “guess who
suffered?” Jaklich said. “We did. It wasn’t our fault but we
have to take the responsibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  