-- 
Philippine Peso Drops to 7-Week Low on Weak Exports; Bonds Gain

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-09-12T08:50:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/philippine-peso-drops-to-five-week-low-on-weak-exports-outlook.html
The Philippine peso fell to its
lowest level in more than seven weeks ahead of data tomorrow
that may show exports declined for a third month as economic
growth around the world slows.  Government bonds  advanced.  Overseas shipments shrank 6.8 percent in July from a year
earlier, following a 9.4 percent contraction the previous month,
according to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. Asian stocks declined on concern  Europe ’s debt
crisis is escalating and Greece is moving closer to a default.  “The biggest reason why the peso should weaken is trade,”
said Marcelo Ayes, senior vice president at Rizal Commercial
Banking Corp. in Manila. “With the worsening situation in
Europe,  risk aversion  is elevated.”  The peso dropped 0.7 percent to 42.813 per dollar at the 4
p.m. close of trading in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon
Plc. It touched 42.818, the weakest level since July 19. The
currency may trade between 42.30 and 42.80 this week, Ayes
predicted.  The euro fell to a decade low against the yen on
speculation German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is preparing for a
Greek default. Officials in Merkel’s government are debating how
to shore up German banks in the event that Greece fails to meet
the budget-cutting terms of its aid package and is unable to get
a bailout-loan payment, three coalition officials said Sept. 9.  The yield on the 8 percent bond due July 2031 fell seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 7.189 percent,
according to noon fixing prices at Philippine Dealing & Exchange
Corp. That’s the lowest for a 20-year benchmark bond since
Bloomberg started the data in 1998.  The government may sell bonds targeted at individuals next
quarter, Treasurer  Roberto Tan  said today in  Manila . The
Philippines may still hold a global debt exchange this year,
Finance Undersecretary Rosalia de Leon told reporters today.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 