-- 
Pimco’s Gross Raised Credit Risk for Fund’s Worst Run on Record

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s   a n d   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-09-12T20:26:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/pimco-s-gross-raised-credit-risk-for-fund-s-worst-run-on-record.html
Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , the
world’s largest mutual fund, is having its worst year versus
rivals based on records going back to 1995, and  Bill Gross ’s
decision to dump Treasuries isn’t the only reason.  Gross bet almost $11 billion in the second quarter on an
index of U.S. corporate credit risk, raised the amount of
insurance the fund provides on sovereign debt and put $1.3
billion into Italian Treasury bonds linked to inflation,
according to an August regulatory filing.  Since June 2010, Gross has been reducing the $245 billion
fund’s vulnerability to interest-rate swings and increasing its
reliance on credit quality by shifting from Treasuries to
corporate and non-U.S. sovereign debt, a strategy that backfired
last month. As the  U.S. economy  slowed and Europe’s debt crisis
worsened, investors sought the safety of Treasuries and sold the
bonds Pimco had bet on, leaving the fund trailing 89 percent of
competitors in August and 67 percent this year through Sept. 8,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “People are focusing on the Treasuries, but the real issue
is that the other credit instruments didn’t do as well,” A. Michael Lipper, head of Lipper Advisory Services Inc., a Summit,
New Jersey, firm that advises institutions on investing in
mutual funds, said in a telephone interview. “They had way too
much, short term, of the underperformers.”  The amount of protection issued by Pimco Total Return on
debt tied to corporate borrowers, municipalities and sovereign
governments outside the U.S. rose to $43.6 billion as of June 30
from $19.6 billion a year earlier, the filing shows.  Navigating ‘New Normal’  This year is shaping up to be Gross’s worst against U.S.
total-return funds in data going back to 1995, the earliest year
for which Bloomberg has rankings for Pimco’s flagship, which
opened in May 1987. Gross hasn’t lost money in any year since
1999, when Pimco Total Return declined 0.3 percent, including
dividends, and trailed 59 percent of the competition, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. In 2010, the fund returned 8.8
percent to beat 82 percent of its peers.  Gross today disclosed that he raised his holdings in U.S.
Treasuries to the highest level since December 2010 as the fund
trailed rivals. The fund increased its holdings of Treasury debt
to 16 percent as of Aug. 31 from 10 percent at the end of July,
according to data posted on Pimco’s website. Gross raised his
investments in non-U.S. developed markets such as  Europe  to 18
percent from 13 percent in the prior month, while mortgage
holdings climbed to 32 percent from 25 percent.  ‘Bouts of Volatility’  Selling Treasuries and buying corporate debt is a sound
long-term strategy that will cause short-term weakness when
investors are seeking havens, said Ed Goard, chief investment
officer for fixed income at Birmingham, Michigan-based Munder
Capital Management, and Michael Krushena, one of the firm’s
senior portfolio managers.  “There will still be some bouts of volatility with the
uncertainty going on in Europe and the unresolved lawsuit issues
surrounding mortgages in the banking sector,” Krushena said in
a telephone interview. “But looking further out than the next
two or three months, we think corporate bonds are better
investments.”  Pimco is seeking to navigate what Gross, the firm’s co-
chief investment officer, and Mohamed El-Erian, its chief
executive officer and co-CIO, called the “new normal,” a
future marked by slower growth in developed markets, higher
unemployment and more regulation. Gross last year forecast the
end of the three-decade rally in bonds, a move that creates
strategic challenges for Pimco, whose assets, totaling $1.34
trillion as of June 30, are mostly in fixed-income securities.  Manager of Decade  Pimco Total Return gained 3.9 percent this year through
Sept. 8, with dividends, trailing the 6.6 percent advance by its
benchmark, the BarCap U.S. Aggregate Total Return Value Index.
The fund generated an average annual gain of 7.2 percent in the
10 years ended March 31, 2010, compared with 6.3 percent for the
BarCap index, helping Gross earn Morningstar Inc.’s award as
fixed-income fund manager of the decade.  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for Pacific Investment
Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,  California , declined to
comment.  The main factor in this year’s slump was Gross’s decision
to sell Treasuries, according to Eric Jacobson, a Morningstar
analyst. Treasury holdings fell to zero as of February and
climbed back to 10 percent as of July 31, according to Pimco’s
website, compared with 33 percent for the BarCap index. When
demand for Treasuries soared last month, Pimco Total Return fell
0.8 percent as the BarCap Index rose 1.5 percent.  ‘Rare Deviation’  Current yields on 10-year government bonds don’t adequately
compensate investors for inflation risk, Gross has said
publicly. Government efforts to stoke the economy through
quantitative easing, including the  Federal Reserve ’s purchase of
$600 billion in Treasuries over eight months, artificially
repressed U.S. rates, leaving investors with negative real
returns when inflation was factored in, he said in a June
 investment outlook  posted on Pimco’s website.  “Gross’s bearish call on Treasuries was an extremely rare
deviation from the Pimco script of a lower-than-consensus
forecast” for gross domestic product, inflation and household
spending, said William Powers, a former Pimco portfolio manager
who now runs Strand Partners, a family office in  Los Angeles ,
and helps manage two real estate funds.  Pimco’s solution, as Gross described in his commentary, was
to replace Treasuries with corporate debt as well as emerging-
market and non-agency mortgage securities. The bonds are less
sensitive to interest-rate changes, and thus less affected by
quantitative easing, Gross said. That made the debt perceived as
riskier a relative bargain, according to Pimco.  ‘Safer Spread’  “The credit piece,” Gross wrote, “is a safer spread than
the duration piece.”  Rather than buy actual bonds, Gross used credit-default
swaps, derivative contracts that are similar to providing
insurance on debt securities. Under the terms of a credit-
default swap, Pimco receives annual premiums in return for
agreeing to pay the insured an amount equaling the face value of
the bond, minus any residual value, should the issuer of the
debt fail to meet its obligations.  The amount of protection sold by the fund on debt issued by
individual companies, municipalities and non-U.S. sovereign
governments increased to $22 billion as of June 30 from $13.9
billion a year earlier, according to a quarterly report filed
Aug. 26 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Rising Insurance Cost  The 2011 figures included swaps covering $6.9 billion of
debt issued by emerging-market countries  Brazil ,  China ,  Mexico 
and Indonesia, compared with $2.8 billion a year earlier. The
fund had sold credit protection on $3.6 billion of sovereign
debt from  France , Italy,  Germany  and  Spain  as of June 30, the
filing shows, along with a combined $4.1 billion of swaps on
U.K. gilt and Japanese  government bonds .  The face value of swaps the fund sold on indexes for high-
yield, emerging-market and investment-grade debt rose to $21.6
billion at midyear from $5.6 billion in June 2010. The fund sold
$10.7 billion of credit protection on the Markit North America
Investment Grade Index in the second quarter, raising the total
to $11.8 billion.  The cost of insuring non-Treasury debt has soared since
July, a trend that would require Pimco Total Return to mark down
its existing agreements in computing daily net asset value.
Credit-default swaps rise in value as investor confidence
erodes, causing mark-to-market losses for those that have sold
protection on bonds.  The fund’s coverage on the Markit index would have shown a
paper loss of $115.7 million as of Sept. 6, according to
Bloomberg data, compared with the $47.8 million gain Pimco
calculated as of June 30 in its  SEC filing .  ‘Flight to Safety’  “The recent spread widening of the index is attributable
to the flight to safety moves,” Otis Casey III, director of
credit research in the New York office of Markit, a London-based
financial information-services company, said in an e-mail
response to questions. Investors “shunned risky assets due to
continued concerns of the Euro-zone sovereign-debt crisis,
policy uncertainty in the U.S. and fears of a slowdown in global
economic growth,” Casey said.  Insurance on Italian government debt, priced at 172 basis
points as of June 30, more than doubled to 451 basis points on
Sept. 6, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost of
protecting Brazilian bonds rose 45 percent to 160 basis points,
in part because default coverage on emerging-market countries
had grown too cheap relative to prices on European debt, said
Ajay Jani, a managing director at Gramercy, a Greenwich,
Connecticut, investment manager. A basis point, or one-hundredth
of a percent, equals an annual payment of $1,000 on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Germany, Spain  “It got to the point where Brazil was trading inside of
France,” said Jani, whose firm oversees $2.1 billion and
specializes in emerging-market securities. “People aren’t used
to seeing that kind of relationship.”  In the second quarter, Gross also acquired a German
government bond with a market value of $527 million as of June
30, Spanish government debt valued at $1.6 billion and about
$1.3 billion of Italian Treasury bonds indexed to Euro-area
inflation. The fund’s Italian Treasury bonds have all dropped in
price since June 30, including a 12 percent decline in those
slated to mature in Sept. 2021, according to Bloomberg data.  “Linkers have a higher duration and a higher credit-risk
exposure, so in times of stress you would expect to see nominal
bonds outperform linkers,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income
strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London . The  European Central
Bank  hasn’t included the Italian inflation-linked debt in a
purchase program that has given other types of bonds a “massive
boost,” according to Schnautz.  Financial Services  Pimco Total Return’s positions in debt issued by financial-
services firms, such as Citigroup Inc. and American
International Group Inc., rose to 24 percent of net assets as of
June 30 from 20 percent a year earlier, according to last
month’s SEC filing. These percentages don’t reflect derivatives
such as credit-default swaps. The BarCap benchmark had a 7.2
percent weighting for financial-company bonds as of June 30,
according to Barclays Capital Inc.  Discussing “negative” or “neutral factors” for its
performance in the second quarter, Pimco Total Return’s
quarterly report cited “an overweight of bonds of financial
companies” along with holdings related to non-agency mortgages.
The financial bonds “lagged the broader corporate market” and
“risk aversion put downward pressure on prices” of mortgage-
backed securities, Pimco said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Miles Weiss in
Washington at   mweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Christian
Baumgaertel at   cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  