-- 
Poland Needs to Hold Interest Rates on Inflation Risk, Chojna-Duch Says

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-09-12T08:23:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/poland-needs-to-hold-interest-rates-on-inflation-risk-chojna-duch-says.html
Poland should keep  interest rates 
unchanged this year as commodity prices may accelerate inflation
in 2012, said Elzbieta Chojna-Duch, a central bank monetary-
policy maker.  “Interest rates should remain unchanged at least through
the end of this year,” she said in a Sept. 9 interview. “I
wouldn’t initiate a discussion on rate cuts now and I think no
such decision should be made before the end of this year. The
current projection indicates we shouldn’t ease monetary policy
too early as inflation may accelerate again as of June 2012.”  Investors on the Polish derivate market are betting the
 Narodowy Bank Polski  will reduce its 4.5 percent benchmark
interest rate by a quarter point within six months as waning
export demand damps growth, taming pressure on prices. The
Monetary Policy Council halted tightening in July after lifting
borrowing costs by 1 percentage point in four steps this year.  Interest-rate expectations reversed across eastern  Europe 
last month after reports of slowing economic growth and concern
that expansion sputtering in the euro area will scuttle the
region’s export-led recovery.  Polish six-month forward-rate agreements were 24 basis
points below the three-month Warsaw interbank offered rate
today, while they were 22 basis points higher on Aug. 1,
suggesting a rate increase. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  Hungarian six-month contracts were 30 basis points below
the three-month Budapest interbank offered rate, from being even
at the beginning of last month. The similar Czech spread was 1
basis point below the  interbank rate , compared with 16 above on
Aug. 1.  Inflation Estimate Revision  A revision to the Polish central bank’s inflation estimate
in November may be “slight” as commodity prices are unlikely
to fall and will keep the inflation rate from a “sustainable”
decline, Chojna-Duch said. Central bankers should stick to a
wait-and-see approach as  Poland  may face stagflation, which
would limit the room for relaxing monetary policy, she said.  Economic growth in the euro area, which buys 55 percent of
Polish exports, slowed to 0.2 percent in the April-June period
from the previous quarter, the worst since the bloc’s 2009
recession. Poland’s economy grew 4.3 percent from a year earlier
in the second quarter, slowing from 4.4 percent in the first
three months of the year.  The annual inflation rate was at 4.1 percent in July,
falling from 5 percent two months earlier, the highest in almost
a decade.  Growth, Labor Market  “Slowing economic growth and an unfavorable situation on
the labor market reduce the risk that inflation pressure will
arise,” said Chojna-Duch, who sees a chance the consumer-price
index will fall below 3.5 percent this year and meet the central
bank’s 2.5 percent target in April-May before rebounding in the
second half of next year.  Slower price growth early 2012 will stem mainly from a
statistical effect as inflation surged in the same period this
year on a sales-tax increase and higher food cost, Chojna-Duch
said. The core inflation rate, which excludes food and energy
prices, will probably hover near 2.5 percent through the end of
this year, she said.  Central bankers, who left the interest rates unchanged last
week, said “further adjustments” to monetary policy can’t be
ruled out in case of deteriorating inflation prospects. They
cited the potential impact of the financial-market turmoil on
the zloty as the main risk factor.  ‘Allows for Interventions’  “The Monetary Policy Council will continue its strategy
within the free-floating exchange-rate regime, which allows for
interventions on the  currency market ,” said Chojna-Duch, adding
that “interest rates shouldn’t be used to manage the
currency.”  The zloty tumbled as much as 2.2 percent to 4.3483 per euro
on Sept. 9, the weakest intraday level since July 2009, losing
2.8 percent over five days, the biggest weekly drop since the
week ended Aug. 12.  “Such market volatility, combined with uncertainty over
the crisis in the euro area and risks to the global economy,
make an even stronger case for us to signal that our policy bias
is neutral the the outlook is for stable interest rates,”
Chojna-Duch said. “It would strengthen the National Bank of
Poland’s credibility and perhaps ease concerns on the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  