-- 
Porsche Bets on Faster $123,000 Iconic 911

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-09-13T12:06:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/porsche-bets-on-faster-123-000-iconic-911.html
Porsche AG unveiled the revamped
88,000-euro ($123,000) 911 sports car today, seeking to stem
declining sales of its iconic model and renew the brand’s
heritage as a maker of two-seat performance vehicles.  The Stuttgart, Germany-based company, which now sells more
Cayenne sport-utility vehicles and Panamera sedans than Boxster
and Cayman sports-cars, is overhauling the 911 for the first
time since 2004. It will add a compact SUV in 2013.  “Porsche’s chunky models have become the pillar of their
success,”  Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of Automotive
Management at the University of Applied Sciences in  Bergisch
Gladbach , Germany. “Ferrari and others aren’t standing still,
so it’s about time for Porsche to reinforce sportiness. The new
911 couldn’t drop at a better moment.”  Porsche’s presentation of the 350-horsepower 911 highlights
a push by German carmakers at the International Motor Show in
Frankfurt to showcase models critical to their future growth
plans.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  is pressing its case to become the
industry’s sales leader with a new city car, while  Daimler AG (DAI) 
kicked off its pursuit of VW’s Audi and  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW)  for the luxury-car lead with the start of a small-car line.  The seventh-generation 911, which has a top speed of 289
kilometers per hour (179 miles per hour) and surges to 100
kilometers in 4.6 seconds, will be more powerful and 45
kilograms (100 pounds) lighter than its predecessor due to
bodywork chiefly made from aluminum, allowing the car to burn 16
percent less fuel, Porsche spokesman Hermann-Josef Stappen said.  Porsche Icon  “The 911 model line has been a staunch pillar in the market
for almost 50 years,” Chief Executive Officer  Matthias Mueller 
told reporters today in Frankfurt. “It’s enormously important
for Porsche as it characterizes the brand. It’ll play a huge
factor in our growth strategy.”  Six-month deliveries of the 911 model declined 13 percent
to 10,101 cars as buyers waited for the revamped version.  Porsche has sold about 700,000 911s across six generations
built since the model’s inception in 1963. The 911, which was
driven by U.S. actor Steve McQueen in the 1971 movie “ Le
Mans ,” evolved from the Porsche 356, the sports-car maker’s
first production vehicle designed by Ferry Porsche in 1948. The
model came fifth in the 1999 so-called Car of the Century
awards.  Porsche will be counting on the 911 to help reverse the 20
percent drop in its shares since a plan to merge with Volkswagen
by the end of the year fell apart last week. Porsche’s third-
quarter earnings may be reduced by about 1.6 billion euros
because of a non-cash impact related to the merger delay, a
person familiar with the matter said Sept. 9.  Record Deliveries  Germany  is the most attractive market in the global car
industry, a survey of 300 auto managers by accounting firm  Ernst
& Young  found, citing product quality and innovations. BMW, VW’s
Audi and Mercedes, the world’s three largest makers of upscale
cars, are targeting record deliveries this year, boosted by
growing wealth in China and rebounding spending in the U.S.  “Frankfurt has become a showcase for carmakers’ future
strategy,” Bratzel said. “The Germans are boasting pivotal
models there. They’re acting from a position of strength.”  Mercedes will start its push for sales growth in Frankfurt
when it presents the next generation of the B-Class. The van-
like compact is the first in a line of at least five small cars
aimed at attracting younger drivers to the 125-year-old
manufacturer. The carmaker is investing 1.4 billion euros to
produce the models, including a new factory in  Hungary .  Luxury Lead  BMW and Audi have grown at more than five times the pace of
Mercedes over the past decade by increasing their offerings more
rapidly. Stuttgart-based Mercedes, which has also dropped to
third in profitability, lost the luxury-car sales lead to BMW in
2005 and slipped behind Audi this year.  VW will premiere its smallest and cheapest model yet,
called Up!, to enter the market for subcompact vehicles
including Toyota Motor Corp.’s Aygo and PSA Peugeot Citroen’s
C1. Priced at about 9,500 euros, the four-seat model is seen by
VW as attracting at least 100,000 new buyers per year as urban
centers grow and fuel restrictions tighten.  Europe ’s largest carmaker has a goal of claiming the
industry’s top global sales position no later than 2018. VW
forecast a 5 percent increase in deliveries this year after
selling a record 7.2 million units in 2010.  BMW will showcase the i3 electric city car and the i8 plug-
in hybrid, two battery-powered luxury models developed from
scratch under its new “i” sub-brand that are due to go on sale
in 2013 and 2014 respectively.  Home Show  “ Frankfurt  is our home show, so it’s natural” to premiere
strategic products,  Ian Robertson , BMW sales chief, said in an
interview in Berlin Sept. 9. “Clearly, we’re all very
competitive here.”  Built around a carbon-fiber frame and an aluminium
underbody, the vehicles represent a “strategic device” to
flaunt BMW’s high-tech competence, said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer ,
director of the Center for Automotive Research at the  University
of Duisburg-Essen .  “Customers might be attracted by the completely new
design, high-tech light construction and the alternative driving
systems,” he said. “Innovation is one of the hottest traits
for high-end manufacturers. BMW is vying for the lead here.”  German manufacturers’ offerings will attract regular
Frankfurt show visitors like Hermann Reichert, a 73-year-old
retired engineer who lives in Berlin and calls himself a “car
fanatic.” Reichert attended the 1963 show when Porsche
introduced the original 911.  “A lot of so-called key models will be on display there,”
said Reichert while browsing in VW’s flagship  showroom  on
Berlin’s Unter den Linden boulevard. “The question remains
which of these cars will make history. The 911 certainly did.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  