-- 
Buyout Returns Threatened With Europe Fundraising at Decade Low

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-09-12T12:33:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/private-equity-returns-threatened-with-european-fundraising-at-decade-low.html
The slump in the leveraged loan
market is cutting the amount of debt buyout firms are able to
raise for European acquisitions to a decade-low, threatening the
returns they reap from the investments.  Loans being marketed in Europe last week represent debt of
4.4 times earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization of the target company, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest since at least 2001 and below
the 2011 average of 4.8 times, according to  Fitch Ratings .  Europe’s deepening deficit crisis has sapped demand for
high-risk debt, prompting  3i Group Plc (III)  and Axa Investment
Managers Private Equity SA to target smaller loans than the norm
for buyout-funded acquisitions. The more money buyout firms have
to put into a deal, the lower their return on equity.  “Banks have to delever, funds are seeing better value in
the secondary market, and the economy is in a dire state,” said
 Jon Moulton , London-based chairman of Better Capital LLP, a
distressed company investor. “Returns for private-equity funds
will need to come down to mid-teens from over 20 percent.”  The equity contribution buyout firms needed to put into
their deals last week rose to more than half, up from a 36.5
percent quarterly average this year, according to Fitch.  Rising Costs  Borrowing costs for buyout firms in the loan market have
risen to an average 4.3 percentage points more than benchmark
lending rates, up about 0.2 percentage point since the first
half of the year, Bloomberg data show.  Axa Private Equity is raising 240 million euros ($327
million) of senior loans for its buyout of photo sensor
technology provider Photonis Technologies SAS, arrangers of the
deal ING Groep NV, Societe Generale SA and IKB Deutsche
Industriebank AG said in a statement on Sept. 8.  Debt to Merignac, France-based Photonis represents less
than half the purchase price, and pays as much as five
percentage points more than the euro interbank offered rate,
according to Bloomberg data.  3i is raising 205 million euros of senior debt to acquire
Paris-based building fastener maker Etanco, according to
Bloomberg data, also less than half the purchase price.  Estelle Guillot-Tantay, a spokeswoman for Paris-based Axa,
didn’t immediately comment. Kathryn van der Kroft, a spokeswoman
for London-based 3i, declined to comment.  ‘Big Challenge’  “We are not changing our return expectation,” Yalin Karadogan, a London-based principal at Cinven Ltd., said Sept. 8
in an address at a leveraged finance conference organized by
Euromoney Seminars in  London . “The big challenge for the
private equity industry now is how to achieve return in a lower-
debt, lower-growth environment. Strong growth is achievable with
the right strategy, regardless of the economic environment.”  On the secondary market, the spread for leveraged loans
rated BB rose to 4.2 percentage points from 3.3 percentage
points three months ago, while B rated deals jumped to 5.7
percentage points from 4.42, according to Markit Group Ltd.
data. Leveraged loans are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch.  Economic growth in the euro region slowed to 0.2 percent in
the second quarter from 0.8 percent in the first three months of
2011 as governments cut spending to contain the spreading
deficit crisis.  “We will have a slow or no growth situation in  Europe  in
the next six to 12 months,” said Tanneguy de Carne, head of
non-investment grade debt capital markets at SocGen in London.
“LBO financing of less than 500 million euros will have a
better chance of getting done successfully in the next few
months. Banks are becoming a lot more cautious in underwriting
deals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  