-- 
Qualcomm to Use Microsoft Windows to Encroach on Intel Turf

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-09-12T22:01:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/qualcomm-to-use-microsoft-windows-to-encroach-on-intel-s-turf.html
Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the largest maker of
mobile-phone chips, said  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s new operating system
will provide a launchpad for the company to break  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s
dominance in personal-computer processors.  Microsoft’s decision to enable the new version of its
 Windows operating system  to work on mobile-phone chips, as well
as those based on Intel’s technology, will help Qualcomm and
other chipmakers win orders, Executive Vice President Steve Mollenkopf said today in an interview.  “We think that’s going to be a very disruptive force in
the industry,” Mollenkopf said. “We think that we will be able
to provide a better product than the incumbent solution.”  Qualcomm aims to build on its leadership in mobile-phone
chips by getting its Snapdragon processors into more
smartphones, tablets and eventually computers. The San Diego-
based company is boosting the abilities of Snapdragon to make it
work in notebook-like devices, where Intel controls more than 80
percent of the market.  Qualcomm rose 99 cents to $51.39 today on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. Shares of  Santa Clara , California-based Intel climbed 58
cents to $20.28.  How Big a Threat?  For its part, Intel doesn’t see a major shift away from its
technology, said Bill Calder, a company spokesman. The ARM
Holdings Plc technology that Qualcomm and other phone-chip
makers use doesn’t scale in performance to a level that will
make it competitive in anything beyond basic laptops, he said.  “We don’t take threats to our core business lightly,”
Calder said. “The best-performing platform will win.”  For now, Advanced Micro Devices Inc. is the only other
maker of laptop chips with more than 1 percent of the market,
and its chips also use Intel’s so-called X86 technology.  One challenge in moving from phones to computers is power.
Laptops have chips that draw hundreds of times as much energy as
their counterparts in mobile phones, while processing
information much faster.  While Qualcomm aims to break into computers, Intel is
working on a counterattack into the phone market. That means
making its chips more efficient, so they can work in devices
that run on batteries. Intel has struggled for a decade to
convert its PC supremacy into mobile-phone market share.  Developer Conference  Intel will kick off its Intel Developer Forum tomorrow in
San Francisco, providing a showcase for its latest technology
and predictions for future trends. Microsoft, meanwhile, is
holding its Build conference in Anaheim,  California , where it
will discuss the new version of Windows.  Qualcomm, whose digital signal processors convert radio
signals into voice and data in phones, is working on delivering
processors capable of handling larger pieces of software, like
Windows.  Success in the market will be determined by the ability to
deliver semiconductors that combine the functions of multiple
chips and make them cheaply, said Qualcomm’s Mollenkopf.
Qualcomm has a head start over competitors because it has all
the communications, graphics and processor capabilities it needs
in house, along with experience bringing them together, he said.  “You need the ability and the expertise across a number of
dissimilar technologies,” Mollenkopf said. “We have to
assemble less assets than other people to drive that market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  