-- 
Rand Weakens to Month-Low as Greek Default Concern Curbs Appetite for Risk

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-09-12T14:42:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/rand-weakens-to-month-low-as-greek-default-concern-curbs-appetite-for-risk.html
The rand fell to its lowest level
against the dollar in more than a month as investors shunned
riskier, emerging-market assets on concern  Greece  will default
on its debt, dimming global growth prospects.  South Africa’s currency declined as much as 1.1 percent to
7.3646 per dollar, its weakest level since Aug. 10. It traded 1
percent down at 7.3577 as of 4:22 p.m. in Johannesburg. Against
the euro, the rand slipped 1 percent to 10.0441.  The euro, the currency in which 45 percent of South
Africa’s exports are based, dropped to its lowest level since
2001 against the yen on speculation German Chancellor  Angela
Merkel  is preparing for a Greek default. Emerging-market stocks
fell, driving the benchmark index to its lowest in three weeks,
and commodity prices declined for a third day. South  Africa ’s
benchmark stock index plunged as much as 2.8 percent.  “Markets today are reflecting plenty of worry and fear
about the European debt issue, with the possibility of Greece
going bankrupt, as well as fears of recession in  Europe  and the
U.S.,” Paul Hansen, who helps manage 330 billion rand ($44.9
billion) at Stanlib in Johannesburg, said in an e-mailed
research note. The rand “could weaken further if the risk-off
trade in world markets continues”, he added.  Bearish bets on the rand are at the highest level in more
than a year, according to prices of options contracts monitored
by Bloomberg. The premium of options contracts to sell the rand
in one month over those to buy the currency rose as high as 5.27
percentage points today, the strongest since June 2, 2010.  Germany  Plan  Officials in Merkel’s government are debating how to shore
up German banks in the event that Greece fails to meet the
budget-cutting terms of its aid package and is unable to get a
bailout-loan payment, three coalition officials said on Sept. 9.
Merkel is due to hold talks on the debt crisis with European
Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso today.  Germany will decide on a course of action after receiving
the results of a Greek progress report, a government spokesman
said, speaking on the customary condition of anonymity.  The rand extended its decline after  consumer confidence 
slumped to a two-year low in the third quarter, adding to
pressure on the central bank to cut its benchmark  interest rate 
to bolster Africa’s biggest economy.  The FNB/BER consumer confidence index dropped to 4 from 11
in the second quarter,  First National Bank  and the Bureau for
Economic Research said in an e-mailed statement today.  “The fall in consumer confidence does not bode well for
 consumer spending  and domestic economic growth prospects,”
Tebogo Mosepele, an analyst at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in
Johannesburg, wrote in e-mailed comments. The data is “rand-
negative from the GDP differential perspective,” he added.  Bonds Drop  Bonds declined for a second day, driving four-year yields
to the highest in two weeks. A weaker rand erodes returns on
South African debt for foreign investors, who have purchased a
net 52.6 billion rand ($7.2 billion) of local debt this year,
helping drive a rally that pushed four year-yields to a record
low of 6.327 percent on Sept. 8.  The 13.5 percent notes due 2015 dropped 66 cents to 123.73
rand, driving the yield up 16 basis points to 6.655 percent, the
highest on a closing basis since Aug. 25. The 6.75 percent
securities due 2021 fell 1.26 rand to 92.46 rand, boosting the
yield 20 basis points to 7.896 percent.  “It looks like a general risk-off day in  South Africa ,
with bond and equity markets and the rand all suffering,” Rand
Merchant Bank analysts led by Theuns de Wet wrote in e-mailed
comments. “The markets are not a happy place to be at the
moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  