-- 
Treasury Yield Is Three Basis Points From Record Low on Outlook for Greece

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-09-12T02:54:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/treasury-yield-is-three-basis-points-from-record-low-on-outlook-for-greece.html
Treasury yields were three basis
points above a record low as speculation  Germany  is preparing
for a Greek default drove demand for the safest assets.  Investors cut bets on inflation before reports this week
economists said will show U.S. retail sales and consumer-price
gains slowed in August. The government is scheduled to sell $32
billion of three-year notes today, $21 billon of 10-year debt
tomorrow and $13 billion of 30-year bonds on Sept. 14.  “I’m a little bullish” even following the plunge in
yields, said Shun Totani, a senior fund investor for Tokyo-based
Asahi Life Asset Management Co. “Economic conditions are
getting worse in the U.S. and  Europe .” Asahi Life Asset
oversees the equivalent of $8.9 billion in its advisory and
investment management businesses, according to its  website .  Benchmark 10-year yields were little changed at 1.92
percent as of 11:43 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The price of the 2.125 percent note due in August
2021 was 101 26/32.  The record low was 1.8942 percent set Sept. 9. U.S. seven-
year yields dropped to 1.3058 percent today in early Asian
trading, the least based on  Federal Reserve  data that began in
1969, before climbing to 1.34 percent.  Yield Gap Narrows  Demand for Treasuries has narrowed the extra yield that
investors get from 10-year notes versus the top of the Federal
Reserve’s target range for overnight loans to 1.67 percentage
points, the least since 2008.  “The market seems to be driven by fear,” said Roger Bridges, who oversees the equivalent of $15.6 billion of debt as
the Sydney-based head of bonds at Tyndall Investment Management
Ltd., a unit of  Japan ’s Nikko Asset Management Co. Yields have
fallen enough that they no longer offer value, he said.  Japan’s 10-year note yielded 0.99 percent, versus this
year’s low of 0.97 percent set Aug. 19.  Members of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government are
discussing how to strengthen German banks in case  Greece  fails
to meet the budget-cutting terms of its aid package and is
unable to get a bailout-loan payment, officials said Sept. 9.  U.S. retail sales rose 0.2 percent in August from July, the
slowest pace in three months, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey of economists before the Commerce
Department reports the figure Sept. 14.  Consumer prices increased 0.2 percent, following a 0.5
percent gain in July, economists said before the Labor
Department report Sept. 15.  Inflation-Linked Debt  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, narrowed for a
second day to 1.97 percentage points. The average over the past
five years is 2.06 percentage points.  Returns on inflation-linked bonds fell below those of
government debt by the most in almost three years as a world
economic slump makes it less likely that easy monetary policies
will trigger spiraling consumer prices.  Global sovereign debt gains are 1.3 percentage points
higher than on so-called linkers since the end of July,
according to Bank of America Corp. indexes. The difference is
the most since November 2008. The gap in yields for these bonds
on Sept. 9 indicated investors anticipated an annual global
inflation rate of 1.35 percent, down from 1.86 percent four
months earlier.  Stimulus Package  From  Australia  to the U.K. to the U.S., central bankers are
cutting inflation estimates, giving officials scope to try to
boost growth rates and employment. President  Barack Obama 
presented a $447 billion stimulus package to a joint session of
Congress last week. The  European Central Bank  left  interest
rates  unchanged Sept. 8, saying economic prospects had worsened.  “The inflation-linked  debt market  is confirming signals
from pretty much all other capital markets about concerns over
the outlook for European and U.S. economic growth,” said  Jack Malvey , chief global markets strategist at Bank of New York
Mellon Corp., which manages $1.3 trillion, in an interview on
Sept. 8. “The concerns which the market generally shared over
the first half of 2011 about the potential resurrection of
inflation in so-called advanced economies have subsided.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  