-- 
Treasury Yields Touch Record Lows on Greece Before Three-Year Note Auction

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-09-12T16:08:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/treasury-yield-is-two-basis-points-from-record-low-on-greece-s-debt-crisis.html
Treasury 10-year yields fluctuated
after reaching a record low as concern  Greece  is moving closer
to default sustained the refuge appeal of government debt before
the U.S. sells $66 billion of notes and bonds this week.  Yields on three-year notes rose for the first time in three
days as dealers prepared to bid on the $32 billion of the
securities to be auctioned at 1 p.m. Lars Feld, an economic
adviser to  Germany ’s  Chancellor Angela Merkel , said today
decisions taken in July by European leaders “won’t suffice” to
save Greece from missing a payment on its debt.  “There’s this ever-present flight-to-quality bid out
there,” said  David Coard , head of fixed-income trading in New
York at Williams Capital Group, a brokerage for institutional
investors. “We’ve moved powerfully.”  Yields on 10-year notes dropped less than one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.92 percent at 12:02 p.m. in  New
York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125
percent securities maturing in August 2021 gained less than
1/32, or 31 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 101 27/32. The
yields earlier touched 1.8770 percent, the lowest level in
Federal Reserve data beginning in 1953.  The 30-year bond yield fell one basis point to 3.24
percent. The yield on the current three-year note gained three
basis points to 0.32 percent before today’s auction.  Treasuries rose last week as German officials said Sept. 9
that the government is discussing how to strengthen the nation’s
banks in case Greece fails to meet the budget-cutting terms of
its aid package and is unable to get a bailout-loan payment.  Greek Debt  A haircut in the order of 50 percent will be necessary on
Greek debt, and it’s better to go ahead “rather now than
later,” Feld said today in an interview with Maryam Nemazee on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.”  Merkel and European Commission President  Jose Barroso 
agreed on the “paramount” importance of the euro, the German
government said after the two met in Berlin today.  Treasuries have underperformed bunds, with the extra yield
investors get to hold 10-year U.S. notes instead of their German
counterparts increasing to 19 basis points, the widest spread
since Aug. 5.  The seven-day relative strength index for the 10-year note
yield was below 30 for a second day. A reading less than that
level indicates a security may be poised for a change in
direction. The index was at 30.838 today.  Ried Thunberg ICAP Inc.’s index gauging the outlook for
Treasuries through Dec. 31 showed investors are maintaining
their bearish views.  Bond Sentiment  The company’s money manager sentiment index was 48 for the
seven days ended Sept. 9, versus 47 the week before. A reading
less than 50 indicates investors expect yields to rise,
according to the New Jersey-based unit of the world’s largest
interdealer broker.  The U.S. three-year notes scheduled for sale today yielded
0.325 percent in pre-auction trading. The previous offering of
the securities on Aug. 9 drew a yield of 0.5 percent, the least
since the start of Bloomberg records in May 1981.  Investors bid for 3.29 times the amount on sale last month.
Indirect bidders, which include foreign central banks, bought
47.9 percent, compared with 34.5 percent at the previous
auction.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the debt known as the break-
even rate, narrowed for a second day, shrinking one basis point
to 1.97 percentage points.  U.S. Inflation  Consumer prices gained 0.2 percent in August, following a
0.5 percent advance in the previous month, economists said
before the Labor Department report on Sept. 15.  Returns on inflation-linked bonds fell below those of
government debt by the most in almost three years as a world
economic slump makes it less likely that easy monetary policies
will trigger spiraling consumer prices.  Global sovereign debt gains are 1.3 percentage points
higher since the end of July than on so-called linkers according
to Bank of America Corp. The difference is the most since
November 2008. The gap in yields for these bonds on Sept. 9
indicated investors anticipated an annual global inflation rate
of 1.35 percent, down from 1.86 percent four months earlier.  “The inflation-linked  debt market  is confirming signals
from pretty much all other capital markets about concerns over
the outlook for European and U.S. economic growth,”  Jack Malvey , chief global markets strategist at Bank of New York
Mellon Corp., said in an interview on Sept. 8. “The concerns
which the market generally shared over the first half of 2011
about the potential resurrection of inflation in so-called
advanced economies have subsided.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  