-- 
Trichet Says Central Banks Have ‘Weaponry’ to Tackle Crisis

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-09-12T12:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/trichet-says-central-banks-have-weaponry-to-tackle-crisis.html
European Central Bank President
Jean-Claude Trichet comments on the global economy, inflation,
the central bank’s credibility and fiscal policy.  He made the remarks in  Basel ,  Switzerland  today after
chairing the global economy meeting hosted under the auspices of
the  Bank for International Settlements .  On global growth:  “We are observing a slowing down of the global economy. We
have incorporated this element in our own analysis. We don’t see
a recession, not at all but we see a slowing down in comparison
with what has been observed. We also seen downside risks have
augmented in the recent period.”  “We see the necessity to take into account the national
circumstances.”  On fiscal policy:  “This is to be analyzed through the grid of each economy.
Those having an issue of confidence have to take extremely
seriously this fiscal-policy issue in order to regain control of
the medium term solution.”  “One message that was coming very, very clearly was a call
for decision makers to fully implement the decisions that were
already taken and to implement all those decisions as rapidly,
comprehensively as is required by the situation. This is
something that I consider very, very important. It applies to
all decision makers at the level of the global economy. It is a
call also to the Europeans to implement all decisions that have
been taken.”  On global monetary policy:  “There is full confirmation that we have a strong unity of
purpose that we consider solidly anchoring inflation
expectations isn’t only necessary because we have our mandate
but also to pave the way for growth and job creation. We stand
ready to provide liquidity to banks as required. It is a
sentiment that we all expressed. In the case of the euro area,
we have the capacity to provide liquidity at an unlimited basis
at a fixed rate.”  “We all agree that in the present circumstances we have to
remain permanently alert and have to stand ready for any
observation that we could make on the evolution of the
situation.”  “We are very, very close in the constituency of central
banks. We exchange views permanently. We have a very intimate
relationship. We are in permanent consultations as regard the
unity of purpose. There is absolutely no doubt that we stand
ready to do what is necessary. We have the weaponry to provide
what is necessary.”  “We are united in purpose and we took all in our own
economy the decisions necessary to deliver on our mandate and
solidly anchor inflation expectations to guard against the risk
of inflation and deflation which is very important in the
current circumstances.”  On a potential ECB 12-month tender:  “I cannot say anything on that. It’s a decision of the
Governing Council. We decided” to offer six-month liquidity
“for one operation.”  On inflation:  “A solid anchoring of inflation expectations is always of
the essence to guard against inflation but also of deflation.
The situation has to be examined at the level of each particular
economy. In the emerging economy taken as a whole, you have
areas where you have both a slowing down and at the same time
you still have inflationary pressure. In the advanced economy,
the situation is more a situation where you have a solid
anchoring of medium-term inflation expectations.”  “I don’t see that we can really say that advanced
economies would go to a level of inflation that is close to
zero. I don’t see that.”  On German position on  Greece :  “I don’t comment on the position of the Greek government.
There have been several voices which weren’t necessarily the
same thing. All Europeans including the executive branch of
 Germany  are calling the Greek government to fully deliver on its
commitments. It is what the Europeans have decided, it is what
international institutions are calling upon the Greek government
with great firmness. There is no doubt that if they confirm very
firmly all their commitments, then they would be in a better
position.”  On a Greek troika assessment:  “It is the superior interest of Greece and its people that
we observe something that is satisfactory.”  “There was no particular discussion on Greece.”  On ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark’s resignation:  “I already was public on Juergen, both in the communique
and also on the occasion of the recent G-7. Juergen Stark is a
close friend. He has worked for  Europe  for 18 years in various
positions. I thank him for the remarkable work he has been doing
on the Executive Board and the Governing Council of the ECB. I
fully respect the personal reasons he has.”  On the credibility of ECB:  “I have no particular remark but we are one central bank,
one Governing Council and we take our decisions according to the
treaty. We are living in demanding times and we are up to our
responsibility. We have a great level of credibility.”  “My passion is for the primary mandate of the ECB. It is
important for our 332 million citizens that we deliver  price
stability .”  On bank recapitalization:  “Reinforcing the balance sheet of banks, especially of
European banks is part of our permanent message.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Black  in Basel at  jblack25@bloomberg.net 
Jana Randow in Basel at  jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  