-- 
Trichet Says Central Bankers See Slower Growth, Not Recession

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-09-12T12:15:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/trichet-says-central-bankers-see-slower-growth-not-recession.html
European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said central bankers around the world stand
ready to support the banking system as the global economy slows.  “We don’t see a recession, not at all, but we see a
slowing down in comparison with what has been observed,”
Trichet said today in Basel,  Switzerland , after chairing the
Global Economy Meeting. Downside risks to the growth outlook
have increased and “we stand ready to provide liquidity to
banks as required,” Trichet said. “It is a sentiment that we
all expressed.”  Central bankers are trying to shield their economies from
fiscal tightening and lopsided currency movements that threaten
a new global recession, and Group of Seven finance chiefs have
vowed “a concerted effort” to support expansion.  Europe ’s debt
crisis, which has pushed Greece to the brink of default, is
roiling financial markets, Asian growth is slowing and U.S.
expansion is being hampered by unemployment stuck above 9
percent.  “We all agree that in the present circumstances we have to
remain permanently alert and have to stand ready for any
observation that we could make on the evolution of the
situation,” Trichet said. “We have the weaponry to provide
what is necessary.”  The ECB is providing unlimited cash in its refinancing
operations and last month reintroduced a six-month tender to
fend off a liquidity shortage in financial markets. Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said last week that U.S. policy
makers will this month discuss the tools they could use to boost
the recovery and stand ready to use them.  ‘Understanding’ For SNB  Elsewhere, the Swiss National Bank on Sept. 6 imposed a
ceiling on its franc after it soared to a record against the
euro, damaging exports, as investors sought a haven from
Europe’s woes. Central banks from  Brazil ,  Canada ,  Sweden ,
 Australia  and the  Czech Republic  this week indicated a
willingness to keep monetary policy loose.  Trichet said there was “understanding” for the SNB’s
action among central bank chiefs.  Policy makers are “united in purpose” to “solidly anchor
inflation expectations to guard against the risk of inflation
and deflation, which is very important in the current
circumstances,” Trichet said. “I don’t see that we can really
say that advanced economies would go to a level of inflation
that is close to zero,” he added. “I don’t see that.”  Greek Crisis  Renewed fears that European policy makers are failing to
prevent a Greek default and contain their debt woes has prompted
investors to sell stocks and push the euro to a seven-month low
against the dollar. European bank and sovereign credit risk
reached all-time highs as 10-year Treasury and German bund
yields fell to record lows on demand for a haven.  “All Europeans including the executive branch of  Germany 
are calling on the Greek government to fully deliver on its
commitments,” Trichet said. “It is the superior interest of
 Greece  and its people that we observe something that is
satisfactory.”  Prime Minister George Papandreou, vowing to avoid a default
and keep Greece in the euro, approved new measures to help plug
a yawning budget gap as resistance builds at home and in Europe
to extending more aid to the European Union’s most-indebted
nation. The Cabinet yesterday voted to cut one month’s wages
from all elected officials and impose an annual charge on all
property for two years, to be levied through electricity bills
to ensure rapid collection, Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos
told reporters in the northern Greek city of Thessaloniki.  EU leaders’ divisions threaten to scupper a second bailout
approved in July, and German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
on Sept. 10 repeated a threat to withhold the next 8 billion-
euro payment from the original rescue unless Greece shows it can
meet fiscal targets agreed with the EU.  Trichet met in  Basel  with his counterparts from the world’s
largest central banks including Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke,  Japan ’s Masaaki Shirakawa,  China ’s Zhou Xiaochuan and
Germany’s Jens Weidmann. The meeting is held every two months
under the auspices of the Bank for International Settlements,
which oversees central banks.  It was the last meeting chaired by Trichet, whose term as
ECB President ends on Oct. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Basel at  jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Basel at  jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  