-- 
RIM to Pay Dolby Royalties to End Lawsuits Over Audio Patents

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-09-12T14:04:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/rim-to-pay-dolby-royalties-to-end-lawsuits-over-audio-patents.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , maker of
the BlackBerry smartphone and Playbook tablet computer, agreed
to pay patent royalties to  Dolby Laboratories Inc. (DLB)  to end a
legal battle over technology to improve audio quality.  RIM will pay “standard terms,” San Francisco-based Dolby
said in a statement today, settling patent-infringement lawsuits
filed in June in the U.S. and Germany. While financial terms
weren’t disclosed, Dolby told analysts on a conference call last
month it was counting on $15 million in back royalties from RIM
in the fiscal fourth quarter, as well as interest income.  Dolby, inventor of surround sound, said the patents cover
ways to compress digital audio files using less storage while
maintaining quality. The technology has been incorporated into
an industry standard for audio coding, and Dolby said it sued
when Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM refused to sign a licensing
agreement even though it used the standard in the BlackBerry
Storm, Tour, Pearl, Curve and Torch models, and the Playbook.  “We are pleased to welcome RIM into Dolby’s family of
mobile-technology licensees,” Dolby General Counsel Andy Sherman said in the statement. “We believe in and will continue
to protect the value of our intellectual property.”  Dolby and RIM filed to dismiss the case in federal court in
 San Francisco  today.  Dolby reported $228 million in revenue in its fourth
quarter ended in September 2010, with about 78 percent of the
total coming from licensing revenue. Dolby shares dropped 53
percent this year prior to today.  Stereo Sound  RIM signed a license agreement with Via Licensing Corp., a
company designated to handle Dolby patents, shortly after the
lawsuits were filed, Dolby said. The agreement covers the
implementation of the industry standard, the company said.  According to the lawsuit filed in federal court in San
Francisco, Dolby invented technology known as “spectral band
replication” and “parametric stereo” that “represented a
quantum leap forward in compression efficiency, and which were
perfected only after years of research and development.”  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  HTC Corp. (2498) ,  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)   Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and
Samsung Electronics Co. are among smartphone makers that license
the Dolby technology.  Via and RIM had been in talks since 2007, according to
court filings by Dolby and RIM. Dolby had argued that by
complying with the industry standard known as High-Efficiency
Advanced Audio Coding, RIM was using the patented inventions and
should compensate Dolby.  The case is Dolby International AB v.  Research In Motion
Ltd. (RIMM) , 11cv2931, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  