-- 
Ringgit Drops to One-Month Low After Factory Output Shrinks

-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 
2011-09-12T09:04:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/ringgit-drops-to-one-month-low-after-factory-output-shrinks.html
Malaysia ’s ringgit dropped to a
one-month low and government bonds were steady after factory
output shrank unexpectedly and export growth slowed.  The currency fell for a sixth day after government data on
Sept. 9 showed industrial production contracted 0.6 percent from
a year earlier, compared with growth of 2.4 percent that
economists had forecast in a Bloomberg survey. The Bloomberg-
JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index dropped on speculation German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is preparing for a Greek default.  “The prolonged uncertainty in  Europe , especially the
worsening situation in Greece, is boosting dollar demand,” said
Yeo Chin Tiong, head of financial markets at Alliance Bank Bhd.
in Kuala Lumpur. “This will be a dollar week.”  The ringgit declined 0.7 percent to 3.0315 per dollar as of
4:56 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency touched 3.0483, the weakest level since
Aug. 9.  Exports rose 7.1 percent in July from a year earlier,
compared with revised growth of 9.6 percent in June, Malaysia’s
trade ministry said on Sept. 8.  The Dollar Index traded on ICE Futures in  New York  rose for
a third day even as the Group of Seven finance chiefs vowed over
the weekend to support banks and buoy slowing economic growth.
Officials in Merkel’s government are debating how to shore up
German banks if Greece fails to meet the budget-cutting terms of
its aid package and is unable to get a bailout-loan payment,
three coalition officials said on Sept. 9.  Malaysian  government bonds  gained. The yield on Malaysia’s
4.262 percent bonds due September 2016 fell 4 basis points, or
0.4 percent, to a record low of 3.21 percent, according to Bursa
Malaysia.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 