-- 
Rio Tinto’s Murowa Eclipsed by Mbada as Zimbabwe’s Biggest Diamond Miner

-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-09-12T10:10:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/rio-tinto-s-murowa-eclipsed-by-mbada-as-zimbabwe-s-biggest-diamond-miner.html
Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) ’s Murowa diamond mine
has been eclipsed as Zimbabwe’s largest gem producer by Mbada
Mines (Pvt) Ltd. after the closely held miner increased output,
according to its chairman, Robert Mhlanga.  Mbada, based in the capital, Harare, is producing more than
150,000 carats a month from its operations at the Marange
diamond fields in eastern Zimbabwe, he said in an interview in
the city on Sept. 7. That compares with 250,000 carats a year at
Murowa, according to the company’s  website .  “Our vision is to be the leading gem producer globally,”
Mhlanga said.  De Beers , which vies with  Russia ’s Alrosa as the
world’s largest diamond miner, aims to produce to about 35
million carats this year, the company, a unit of Anglo American
Plc, said on July 26. A carat is a fifth of a gram.  Mbada is one of four companies mining diamonds at Marange,
where  Human Rights Watch  has accused Zimbabwean authorities of
killing local villagers and illegal miners. In 2008, more than
200 people were killed when security forces seized the Marange
fields, according to the New York-based group. Zimbabwe’s
government has rejected the accusations.  Rapaport Group’s RapNet Diamond Trading Network, the
world’s biggest, in November banned its members from dealing in
gems from Marange because of reports of “severe” human rights
violations in the area.  In January, Zimbabwe was given permission to hold two
diamond auctions this year by the  Kimberley Process , an
international body set up to control the sale of conflict gems,
Deputy Mines Minister Gift Chimanikire said.  Annual income from the Marange field could rise to $2
billion if the country is allowed to export gems freely, Mines
Minister  Obert Mpofu  said, according to a report in the state-
controlled Herald newspaper in October last year.  Mbada’s Mhlanga declined to say how many diamonds are
currently being produced at the Marange fields.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin on  at  asguazzin@bloomberg.net  