-- 
Romanian August Inflation Rate Declines to Lowest in 17 Months

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-09-12T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/romanian-august-inflation-rate-declines-to-lowest-in-17-months.html
Romania ’s inflation rate fell more
than economists expected in August to the lowest in 17 months as
a bumper harvest boosted food stocks and the effect of a
government tax increase faded.  The rate fell to 4.25 percent from 4.85 percent in July,
the lowest since March 2010, the  National Statistics Institute 
in Bucharest said today in an e-mailed statement. August
inflation was estimated at 4.6 percent, according to the median
forecast of nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Consumer
prices fell 0.35 percent on the month.  Eastern European central banks including Romania have left
borrowing costs unchanged in the past quarter amid concern about
the economic impact of the debt crises in  Europe  and U.S.
Romania’s central bank lowered the inflation forecast for this
year and next on Aug. 8.  Romania’s central bank targets an inflation rate of 3
percent, plus or minus 1 percentage point, for this year and
next and expects the rate at 4.6 percent at the end of the year.
The  International Monetary Fund  forecasts a 5.5 percent rate for
the year, the lender’s mission chief to Romania,  Jeffrey Franks, said on Aug. 1.  Romanian policy makers kept the benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 6.25 percent, the European Union’s highest, for a
10th meeting on Aug. 3, saying “a continued prudent stance” is
needed to boost a recovery and contain medium-term inflation
risks stemming from possible government-energy price increases.  Food-price growth slowed to 3.8 percent in August from a
year earlier, compared with 5.7 percent in July, on falling
vegetable and fruit prices, the institute said.  Non-food costs fell to 4.9 percent in August from 5 percent
the previous month, while price growth for services accelerated
to 3.5 percent from 3.1 percent in July on increased public
transport costs and rising water bills, the institute said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  