-- 
Rubber Declines as Debt Crisis May Hurt Demand

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-09-12T04:08:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/rubber-declines-for-second-day-as-debt-crisis-may-hurt-demand.html
(Corrects  Erwin Sanft ’s title in sixth paragraph.)  Rubber dropped for a second day as
the sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  raised concern that demand
for the commodity used for tires may weaken.  The February-delivery contract fell as much as 1.8 percent
to 362.1 yen a kilogram ($4,673 a metric ton) before trading at
363.5 yen on the  Tokyo  Commodity Exchange at 11:29 a.m. local
time. Futures dropped 0.2 percent last week.  Oil slid for a third day in  New York  and Asian stocks fell,
extending the benchmark index’s drop last week, amid signs
European policy makers are struggling to contain the region’s
debt crisis.  “Concerns on European debt crisis dampened  market
sentiment ,” Naoki Asami, head of international department at
Kanetsu Shoji Co., said by phone from Tokyo. Volume is “very
light” as most investors are on the sidelines, he added.  Officials in Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government are
debating how to shore up German banks in the event that  Greece 
fails to meet the budget-cutting terms of its aid package and is
unable to get a bailout-loan payment, three coalition officials
said Sept. 9. BNP Paribas SA, Societe Generale SA and Credit
Agricole SA, France’s largest banks by market value, may have
their credit ratings cut by Moody’s Investors Service as soon as
this week because of Greek holdings, two people with knowledge
of the matter said on Sept. 10.  “More Downside”  In Europe, “things are probably going to get worse before
they get better,” Erwin Sanft, deputy head of Asian equities
research at BNP Paribas SA in  Hong Kong , said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television today. “Here in  Asia , we’re looking at
much more downside for markets. Much larger economies are being
drawn into this crisis.”  Rubber has lost 12 percent this year after climbing to a
record 535.7 yen on Feb. 18. The European Union is the second-
largest consumer of rubber and the U.S. is the fourth-largest,
according to data from the Singapore-based International Rubber
Study Group.  The market downside is likely to be limited as increasing
imports from China showed the demand remains strong, Asami said.  Natural rubber imports by China in August were 200,000
tons, said a statement on the custom agency’s website on Sept.
10. That compares with 130,000 tons in July and 160,000 tons a
year ago, according to Bloomberg data.  Natural-rubber inventories rose 3,558 tons to 33,376 tons,
the highest since March, based on a survey of 10 warehouses in
 Shanghai , Shandong, Yunnan, Hainan and Tianjin, the Shanghai
Futures Exchange reported in its weekly report on Sept 9.  China ’s passenger-car sales rose 3.3 percent in August from
a year earlier to 1.04 million units, data from China’s
Passenger Car Association showed last week.  In Shanghai, rubber for January delivery gained 1 percent
to close at 34,095 yuan ($5,338) a ton on Sept. 9. The market is
closed for a public holiday today.  Rains spread across southern Thailand, disrupting tapping,
according to the  Rubber Research Institute of Thailand . The cash
price of Thai rubber declined 0.4 percent to 141.4 baht ($4.71)
a kilogram on Sept. 9, according to the institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  