-- 
Eto’o Embarks on ‘Crazy Adventure’ With Billionaire Kerimov’s Caspian Team

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-09-12T20:51:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/russian-billionaire-s-caspian-soccer-team-becomes-eto-o-s-crazy-adventure.html
Samuel Eto’o, the record four-time
African Player of the Year, said he’s embarking on a “crazy
adventure” as the latest high-profile signing by Russian
billionaire Suleiman Kerimov’s soccer club.  Eto’o, who won  Europe ’s elite  Champions League  twice with
Barcelona and once with  Inter Milan , last month signed a three-
year contract with  Anzhi Makhachkala . Kerimov, a gold and potash
investor who bought the team in January, has spent 100 million
euros ($136 million) to bring players to the capital of southern
Dagestan, which has struggled with a separatist conflict for
more than a decade.  “It was difficult at the start, because I didn’t even know
where the club was,” the 30-year-old captain of Cameroon’s
national team said after arriving in  Makhachkala  for the first
time last weekend. “I’m pretty happy because, as you’ve seen,
there’s a great deal of desire, a lot of passion. It’s my dream
to contribute to this crazy adventure.”  Kerimov is worth about $7.8 billion, according to Forbes
magazine. He owns a stake in OAO Polyus Gold,  Russia ’s largest
gold company, and controls the world’s biggest supplier of the
farm chemical potash, OAO Uralkali, with partners.  The 45-year-old has brought in Eto’o, former Brazil World
Cup-winning defender Roberto Carlos and ex-Chelsea defender  Yuri Zhirkov  to the team, which was founded in 1991. It entered
Russia’s top division in 2000 and was relegated two years later
before returning to the Premier League in 2009.  First Match  In his first home game in Makhachkala’s 17,000-capacity
stadium on Sept. 12, Eto’o scored a goal that helped Anzhi to a
2-1 victory and lifted it to fourth place in the league.  The striker is earning 10 million euros a year, the British
Broadcasting Corp. reported Aug. 23.  “We pay enough to see him here in our team,” club General
Director German Chistyakov said as Eto’o drew loud cheers from
some 7,000 fans during a training session on a sultry night
before the inaugural home match. Chistyakov declined to give
details on the salary, saying “it’s commercial information.”  The move is a logical one financially for Eto’o, said Tom Cannon, a sports business professor at the U.K.’s Liverpool
University.  “He reached a stage in his career when he was going to
trade down anyway,” Cannon said. “He wasn’t going to stay with
a major club because of his age. It’s better for him, in terms
of money, than going to a minor club in  Italy , in  England , in
Spain or  Germany .”  Corruption, Poverty  Dagestan lies on the shores of the  Caspian Sea  and is one
of the poorest regions in Russia. Wages in the area last year
averaged 10,000 rubles ($330) a month, half of the national
level.  Corruption and efforts by insurgents to topple the Moscow-
backed government have damaged the economy. Dagestan, which
relies on central government subsidies, has an agricultural
sector and oil pipelines.  More than 220 people were killed in the first six months of
the year, according to  Kavkazskiy Uzel , a research group which
monitors the region.  “The overall security situation is getting worse,” even
after efforts to rehabilitate insurgents, said Kavkazskiy Uzel’s
editor-in-chief, Grigory Shvedov.  Fans are enthusiastic about the club’s prospects under
Kerimov, who has promised to build Anzhi City, a sports complex
with a new soccer stadium.  “I have a great respect for Suleiman Kerimov, because he
started a new history for us: the club has been reborn,” said
Magomedov Ali, a 21-year economics student. “He’s spending a
lot of money, which is the right thing to do. He’s investing in
soccer, his native Dagestan.”  After Abramovich  Kerimov is the latest Russian billionaire to pour money
into a  soccer club . Chelsea owner  Roman Abramovich  has spent
more than $1 billion to sign players to turn the English Premier
League team into a domestic and European powerhouse. The Russian
has also converted almost 700 million pounds ($1.1 billion) in
loans into equity.  Some Dagestanis think Kerimov could find more productive
things to fund.  “Not everyone in the region is happy about these multi-
million-dollar contracts,” Shvedov said. “They’d prefer the
money to be spent on alleviating poverty and social needs.”  Eto’o won’t be living in Dagestan, which he said was a
“backwater” that reminded him of his native Cameroon. He’ll
fly in and out of the region for 15 home games a season. The
team will train and stay in Moscow, where Kerimov lives.  Travel Concerns  Eto’o, who will be traveling with the squad on a Russian-
made Tupolev, started his press conference last weekend with a
minute’s silence for the victims of the Sept. 7 crash that
killed 44 people, including most of Russia’s Lokomotiv Yaroslavl
hockey team, on a Yakovlev-42 aircraft.  Russia is the world’s most dangerous country for  air travel 
this year, surpassing the  Democratic Republic  of Congo.  “When I take a flight, whether Russian, Cameroonian,
Spanish or even Italian, I usually put my life in the hands of
God,” Eto’o said. “You pray to live as long as you can, but
when your day comes, it’s God’s will.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Makhachkala via the Moscow newsroom at 
   hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net 
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  