-- 
Australia’s Samantha Stosur Leaves Tennis Outback With U.S. Open Victory

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-09-12T05:33:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/sam-stosur-leaves-tennis-outback-with-u-s-open-win.html
Sam Stosur’s Grand Slam win at the
U.S. Open may take the Australian from the tennis outback to a
place among the local sporting elite.  Stosur, 27, upset three-time champion Serena Williams 6-2,
6-3 yesterday to become the first Australian woman in 31 years
to win a major singles title. It was the first time the nation
had claimed the women’s championship in  New York  since Margaret Court in 1973.  The win will boost Stosur’s profile and earning potential
in a country that hadn’t had a Grand Slam champion since  Lleyton Hewitt  won Wimbledon in 2002, according to sports marketers.
She’s the third straight women’s player to capture her first
major this year after  China ’s  Li Na  took the French Open and
Czech Petra Kvitova won Wimbledon.  “She should be making a substantial chunk of her money
from Australia, no different from  Greg Norman , for example,”
James Erskine, chief executive officer of Sydney-based Sports &
Entertainment Ltd., said in a phone interview. “I would be
surprised if she didn’t get some substantial sponsorships. She’s
obviously now gone to another stage.”  Stosur, a native of Brisbane in Queensland state, ranked
15th among Australia’s highest-paid sports stars in 2010 with
earnings of A$2.8 million ($2.9 million), according to Business
Review Weekly magazine. She was the top female athlete on the
annual list, headed by Formula One driver  Mark Webber  with
earnings of A$13.4 million.  Her seven sponsors include tennis equipment maker Babolat,
apparel company Lacoste,  Luxottica Group SpA (LUX) ’s Oakley eyewear
brand and vitamin maker  Usana Health Sciences Inc. (USNA) , according to
her  website .  More Deals  The win puts Stosur in a position to be able to attract
more deals, said Craig Kelly, co-founder and CEO of Elite Sports
Properties.  “She might get three to four other partners where she
could be earning anywhere between a quarter and half a million
dollars each,” Kelly said in a phone interview from Melbourne.
“There should be some great opportunities for her.”  Yesterday’s win, her third singles title on the elite
women’s circuit, is worth $1.8 million in prize money alone.  “She’s got enough money to shout us all dinner now,”
Stosur’s coach,  David Taylor , said in an interview with
 Australia ’s Fox Sports.  While the victory will help Stosur attract more local and
tennis-specific endorsement contracts, she’ll need to capture
more Grand Slam titles to become a global marketing asset, said
Steve Rosner, co-founder of Rutherford, New Jersey-based 16W
Marketing LLC.  ‘Multiple Majors’  “Winning one is fine, but to really take the next step in
being a marketable athlete you’ve got to do it on a consistent
basis,” Rosner said in a phone interview. “It means more to
her in her home country.”  Stosur’s victory already made its mark in her homeland,
where the match began at 6.30 a.m. on Australia’s east coast.
About an hour after she clinched the title, Australian Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  issued a statement congratulating Stosur
on her “outstanding tournament.”  “Her win will encourage the next generation of young
Australian players to take to the court,” Gillard said.  Craig Tiley, director of tennis at Tennis Australia and the
Australian Open’s tournament director, was one of about 40
people to gather early this morning at  Melbourne  Park, the site
of the season-opening major, to watch the final. He said
Stosur’s Grand Slam breakthrough had come earlier than expected.  Down and Out  “She’s good enough to win, but we’re looking at 2012, ‘13,
’14 and ‘15 as being Sam’s years,” Tiley said in a phone
interview. “It wasn’t long ago that Sam was down in the
doldrums and out. No one was really interested in her at that
point. I think there are more Grand Slams to follow.”  Stosur, a former top-ranked doubles player, is the first
Australian woman to win one of the four Slams since Evonne Goolagong Cawley in 1980 at Wimbledon. She was playing in her
second major final, having finished as runner-up to Francesca Schiavone of  Italy  at the 2010 French Open.  “She can only go on further from here,” the 60-year-old
Goolagong Cawley, who won seven Grand Slam titles, said at a
televised news conference in Canberra. “This is going to be a
great boost for her. She’s been in finals before and hasn’t been
able to pull it off. This is that next step forward. It will
give her so much more confidence.”  Christmas Present  Stosur began playing at age 8 when a friend gave her a
tennis racket as a Christmas present. She joined the Australian
Institute of Sport at 16 and turned pro in 1999, reaching the
WTA Tour’s No. 1 ranking in doubles seven years later.  She was sidelined for 10 months after contracting Lyme
disease in July 2007 and didn’t return to the women’s circuit
until June 2008. She claimed her first WTA singles title in
 Osaka  the following year.  Stosur had spent over four more hours on court than 13-time
major winner Williams going into yesterday’s final. She won the
longest recorded  U.S. Open  women’s match since 1970 against
 Nadia Petrova  in the third round and featured in a Grand Slam-
singles record 32-point tiebreaker against  Maria Kirilenko  in
the round of 16.  “She’s that kind of a tenacious, resilient, person,” Troy
Ayres, the development manager at Tennis Australia in
Queensland, said in a phone interview. “Sam’s such an
absolutely down-to-earth person, people will really identify
with her. She’ll certainly draw more people to the game.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  