-- 
Sanofi Says Lyxumia May Help Diabetics Get to Final Dose Faster

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-09-12T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/sanofi-says-lyxumia-may-help-diabetics-get-to-final-dose-faster.html
Sanofi said its experimental
diabetes medicine Lyxumia may allow doctors to cut a step in
helping patients improve the level of sugar in their blood.  The medicine, one in a class of drugs that require a
progressive dose increase at the start of treatment, reduced
diabetics’ blood-sugar levels both when the dose was doubled
after two weeks and when it was raised over three weeks,
according to a 482-patient study presented at the  European
Association for the Study of Diabetes conference  in Lisbon.  France ’s biggest drugmaker is trying to show that Lyxumia
offers benefits not available with other treatments from the
same class to carve out a place in an increasingly crowded
market. The medicine is in the final stages of clinical
development while rival products by Eli Lilly & Co. and Novo
Nordisk A/S are already on pharmacy shelves.  “The study confirms the drug’s easy-to-use profile,”
Riccardo Perfetti, vice president of medical affairs at Sanofi’s
diabetes division, said in a telephone interview. “It’s likely
to win over physicians and patients. Doctors like what is linear
and won’t be forced to do multiple prescriptions or see patients
more than once to get to the ideal drug dosing.”  Lyxumia, known chemically as lixisenatide, Lilly and  Amylin
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN) ’s Byetta and Novo’s Victoza are part of a
new class of diabetes drugs called GLP-1 analogues because they
mimic a hormone that stimulates the pancreas to produce insulin.  The Sanofi medicine also helped patients shed weight in the
study dubbed GetGoal F-1, the Paris-based company said in an e-
mailed statement today.  Age and Weight  “The results reflect Lyxumia’s potential,” Perfetti said.
The drug “has demonstrated all the three attributes that can
determine success: tolerability, efficacy and safety.”  About 346 million people worldwide suffer from diabetes,
according to the  World Health Organization . Most have the Type 2
form of the disease linked to older age, excess weight and
physical inactivity. The condition is caused by a lack of
insulin needed to convert blood sugar into energy.  Sales of Novo’s Victoza more than quadrupled in the second
quarter. Indianapolis-based Lilly and its partner Amylin this
year got European approval for a once-weekly version of Byetta,
a twice-daily treatment that garnered sales of $171.2 million in
the second quarter.  Patients who begin taking Victoza and Byetta can’t start on
a full dose, according to Perfetti. The amount of medicine gets
increased over time to minimize initial side effects such as
nausea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  