-- 
Sasol Profit Rises 25% on Cost Controls; Per-Share Earnings Miss Estimates

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-09-12T11:58:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/sasol-full-year-profit-increases-25-per-share-earnings-misses-estimates.html
(Corrects 10th paragraph to show output target is global.)  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the largest producer of
motor fuels from coal, said fiscal full-year profit climbed 25
percent as oil prices rose and cost savings increased.  Net income advanced to 19.8 billion rand ($2.7 billion) in
the year through June from 15.9 billion rand a year earlier,
Johannesburg-based Sasol said today in a statement. Earnings per
share gained 24 percent to 32.85 rand, missing the 33.65-rand
average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Decisive management actions on operational efficiencies,
cost control and business improvement plans have boosted the
bottom line this year,” Chief Financial Officer Christine Ramon
said in the statement. “Higher global commodity prices have
supported the healthy margins delivered.”  Sasol has shifted investment into producing fuel from
natural gas overseas, rather than from South African coal,
boosting earnings as the local currency appreciates.  Oil prices 
in  New York  rose 19 percent on average in the period to $89 a
barrel, about twice the 9.6 percent gain in rand terms,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company, which uses proprietary Fischer-Tropsch
technology to make gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, halted a
planned $10 billion joint venture in  China  in February because
of delays in Chinese government approval.  Project Funding  Sasol has reallocated the funds it had earmarked for the
venture to other projects in  South Africa  and abroad, it said
today, without elaborating. It remains committed to expanding
its other businesses in China, it said.  Sasol fell as much as 3.7 percent to 312 rand in
Johannesburg trading, and was at 315.80 rand as of 9:14 a.m.
local time.  The company’s international projects include a planned gas-
to-liquids plant in Uzbekistan with partners Petroliam Nasional
Bhd and state-run Uzbekneftegaz. It will decide in the “near
term” whether to proceed with the front-end engineering and
design for the facility, Sasol said.  It’s also studying the viability of a similar plant in
western  Canada , following its 14.2 billion-rand acquisition of
two shale-gas assets in the country, Sasol said.  The company expects volumes from Canada and  Mozambique  to
improve in the current fiscal year, it said in the statement,
without elaborating. Sasol is targeting global synthetic-fuels
output of 7.2 million metric tons to 7.3 million tons in 2012,
it said.  “We remain on track to deliver on our expectations for an
improved operational performance and to contain cost increases
to within inflation,” Sasol said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  