-- 
Sasol Quits China Coal-to-Liquids Plant as Project’s Approval Stalled

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-09-12T15:22:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/sasol-reallocates-china-funds-staff-after-delay-getting-project-approval.html
Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the largest producer of
motor fuels from coal, abandoned plans for a factory in China in
favor of other investment opportunities after government delays.  “We have so many investment opportunities that we need to
move on and look elsewhere at this time,” said Chief Executive
Officer David Constable in an interview.  Sasol, based in Johannesburg, was planning a $10 billion
coal-to-liquids plant with Shenhua Ningxia Coal Industry Group
Ltd., a unit of China’s biggest producer of the fuel. Funding
will be moved to other developments and staff redeployed, Sasol
said. The two partners haven’t received any response from the
Chinese government since they submitted a project application
report in December 2009, according to Constable.  “They’re still looking at how to use their coal, whether
for chemicals or power or liquid fuels,” he said. “There are
technology questions on whether or not they’d like to develop
the technology themselves. I think with all of those unknowns, I
can see why they would be slow in their decision making.”  Sasol, which saw a 25 percent gain in annual profit today,
will expand its other businesses in  China , mainly chemicals
manufacturing and marketing, Constable said in a presentation.  The company, which uses proprietary technology to make  jet
fuel , gasoline and diesel, is shifting to making products abroad
from natural gas, instead of South African coal, to help counter
the effect of a rising currency. Its foreign businesses, mainly
assets in Mozambique, Qatar and  Iran , made up 36 percent of
group operating profit in the year ended June 30.  Gas-to-Liquids  Sasol expects to announce a planned gas-to-liquids plant in
Uzbekistan with its partners Petroliam Nasional Bhd and state-
run Uzbekneftegaz “in the very near term,” probably before the
end of the year, Constable said. The parties will meet with
President Islam Karimov of Uzbekistan on Sept. 19, he said.  The Sasol board has provisionally agreed to proceed with
engineering and design for the facility, Constable said.  The group’s other main international plans include gas-to-
liquids plants in the U.S. and western  Canada , currently in the
feasibility stage, and a coal-to-liquids factory in  India . The
pre-feasibility study for the India project, a partnership with
 Tata Group , should be complete by end-2011, Constable said.  Nigeria’s Escravos gas-to-liquids plant, jointly developed
with  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , is due to begin production in 2013, he said.  Sasol slid 0.5 percent to 322.50 rand by the 5 p.m. close
in Johannesburg. The FTSE/JSE All Share Index fell 1.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  