-- 
Scene Last Night: Steve Schwarzman, Byrdie Bell, Roitfeld Trio

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-09-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/scene-last-night-steve-schwarzman-byrdie-bell-roitfeld-trio.html
Blackstone Group Chairman and
Chief Executive Steve Schwarzman stood out in the crowd of
models and artists at Phillips de Pury & Co. Friday night
to celebrate the opening of a Richard Hambleton
retrospective.  Wearing a pink-and-white striped button-down shirt and
beige pants, Schwarzman walked past three models: silver-
suited Karolina Kurkova, Byrdie Bell (also an actress) in
fedora and skinny jeans, and top head-turner Theodora
Richards, who had been poured into a black catsuit with
head-to-toe slits.  (Click  here  for a slide show of photos from the
party.)  “We’re looking for our friend,” Schwarzman said in
the second-floor galleries, filled with Hambleton’s
energetic canvases. He scanned the crowd, which totaled
about 2,000, while his wife, in a cream-colored dress and
jacket, checked her BlackBerry.  The friend was Gherardo Guarducci, a partner in the
restaurant Sant Ambroeus, whose Madison Avenue location
isn’t far from the Schwarzmans’ Park Avenue residence.  The couple, recently returned from several months in
 France , picked a hectic night to dip back into  New York ’s
social scene. Pre-9/11 security measures had snarled
traffic.  “It’s a zoo,” Schwartzman said.  Former Vogue Paris editor Carine Roitfeld also noted
the charged atmosphere. “It’s very strange with all the
police around and these checkpoints. It makes me sad.”  ‘A Great Spirit’  The exhibition, up through Tuesday, shines a long-
overdue spotlight on Hambleton, a downtown artist who has
continued to work well after the deaths of peers Keith Haring and  Jean-Michel Basquiat .  “He’s a great spirit in the art world who struggled,
and now he’s victorious,” said Peter Boris of  Pace
Gallery . “He kept on painting.”  No one knew if Hambleton would show. Then he ended the
suspense as he arrived wearing an expression of delight and
a green suit.  The party brought out a triumvirate of Roitfelds:
Carine and her two children, Julia and Vladimir.  Vladimir Restoin Roitfeld organized the exhibition
with Andy Valmorbida (whose mother, Maria Valmorbida, was
also in attendance. Roitfeld and Valmorbida have mounted
exhibitions of Hambleton’s work in  London , Moscow, Milan
and Cannes. New York’s is the final installment.  Mother Knows Best  Carine Roitfeld’s advice has proved useful.  “She said, ‘Nothing is going to come to you easy’”
explained her son. “When you fight, that is how things
happen.”  He then offered an example.  “For the past few months, we’ve been going to Richard
Hambleton’s studio, asking for new work, and he has had
nothing to give us,” he said. “Then last night we went to
the studio and he gave us five or six works. Now it’s truly
a retrospective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amanda Gordon  in New York at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  