-- 
Serena Williams May Face U.S. Open Ban After Outburst in Loss

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-09-12T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/serena-williams-may-face-u-s-open-ban-after-outburst-in-finals-loss.html
Serena Williams’s mouth again
overshadowed her game at the  U.S. Open , where she was ousted by
Samantha Stosur in a women’s final that may lead to a ban from
next year’s tournament.  Williams, the three-time champion, was fined $175,000 and
given a suspended U.S. Open ban in 2009 after being issued a
match-ending penalty in a semifinal loss to  Kim Clijsters  when
she berated a lineswoman over a foot-fault call. Her words last
night at the National Tennis Center cost Williams a service game,
and the outburst that followed may lead to much more.  Down a set in the match she eventually lost 6-2, 6-3 to
Stosur of  Australia , Williams angrily reacted to chair umpire
Eva Asderaki when she was given a game-ending one-point penalty
upon shouting “Come on!” after hitting what she thought was a
clean winner. Stosur, the No. 9 seed, managed to get her racket
on the ball, leading the umpire to issue a code violation.
Williams criticized the umpire, and continued to berate her
during a 90-second changeover two games later.  Tournament referee Brian Earley will issue a ruling on
Williams’s actions today after reviewing her comments, speaking
with the umpire and determining whether the violation will
result in a fine, the U.S. Tennis Association said in a
statement.  “Any impact this code violation might have on  Serena
Williams ’ Grand Slam probation would require the incident being
ruled a major event,” according to the statement. “That
determination will be made by the Grand Slam committee
director.”  Bartoli Penalized  Williams, 29, from the U.S., said after the match that she
didn’t intentionally yell out during play to interfere with
Stosur and that she didn’t know the rule that cost her a point.
Marion Bartoli of  France  was similarly penalized against
American Christina McHale earlier in the tournament, also after
yelling “Come on!” during play.  “I thought it was a clear winner,” Williams said at a
news conference. “I thought it was like the hat-drop rule,
where if you drop a hat you kind of replay the point.”  After being told of the one-point violation, Williams
scolded Asderaki immediately and throughout the side change two
games later. The comments were picked up by microphones for CBS
Corp., which televised the match, and replayed several times.  “Aren’t you the one who screwed me over last time here?”
Williams asked Asderaki. “I promise you, that’s not cool.
That’s totally not cool.”  Williams won the next two games and took a 2-1 advantage
into the side change, when she spent most of the time talking to
Asderaki, with comments such as, “Don’t even look at me.”  ‘You’re a Hater’  “If you ever see me walking down the hall, look the other
way, because you’re totally out of control,” Williams said as
she sat in her chair next to Asderaki’s. “You’re a hater and
unattractive inside.”  Williams said afterward she had no recollection of the
comments and that she had no idea what she was referring to in
bringing up an earlier episode with Asderaki. Asked again if she
confused the umpire with the one who penalized her against
Clijsters, she said, “I don’t know. Maybe. Probably for sure.”  Williams didn’t shake hands with the umpire or look at
Asderaki as she left the court after the 73-minute match, which
gave Stosur her first Grand Slam title.  Williams was one game from losing her 2009 match with
Clijsters when she received a foot-fault call on her second
serve at 15-30. She turned and verbally abused the lineswoman
who made the call and was given her second code violation of the
match, after smashing her racket at the end of the first set.
The penalty cost Williams a point and the match.  Apology  Two days later, Williams apologized to the lineswoman,
Clijsters, the USTA and tennis fans for what she called “my
inappropriate outburst.”  Williams, who missed the 2010 tournament due to injury, was
fined $175,000 in November 2009 for verbal abuse of the
lineswoman. The fine, handed down by a committee comprised of
officials from all four Grand Slams, included a provision that
it would be reduced to $82,500 if Williams didn’t have any more
major offenses through 2011. If Williams is found guilty of a
major offense in any Grand Slam, she would be suspended from the
U.S. Open, held annually in  New York , the committee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 