-- 
Ship Owners to Lose Money on Saudi-U.S. Route Through ’12: Freight Markets

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e   a n d   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 
2011-09-12T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/ship-owners-to-lose-money-on-saudi-u-s-route-through-12-freight-market.html
The U.S. is importing the smallest
amount of  Persian Gulf  crude in 14 years as demand weakens and
domestic production climbs, signaling that tankers on the route
will lose money for at least another year.  The world’s biggest oil consumer bought 1.7 million barrels
a day from Saudi Arabia and six other  Persian Gulf states  in the
first half, the least since 1997, according to the latest
Department of Energy data. Daily U.S. output averaged 5.58
million barrels, the most since 2004, the data show. Some owners
have paid clients to charter their tankers on the route since
March and will probably have to keep doing so until at least the
end of 2012, Arctic Securities ASA in Oslo estimates.  The U.S. is boosting output of oil, shale gas and ethanol
as President  Barack Obama  seeks to cut the nation’s dependence
on foreign fuel. Fewer cargoes from the Middle East to the U.S.,
the world’s second-biggest tanker route, mean an expanding
vessel glut. There are about 25 percent more supertankers than
cargoes available in the Persian Gulf, the most since October,
according to Bloomberg surveys of shipbrokers and owners.  “The U.S. is awash with domestic oil and increasingly
divorced and less reliant on foreign imports,” said Andreas Vergottis, the research director at Tufton Oceanic Ltd. in  Hong
Kong , which manages the world’s largest shipping hedge fund.
“Not only is end use of oil shrinking, but domestic production
of crude oil is rising rapidly.”  Maritime Routes  Returns for owners of supertankers hauling oil from  Saudi
Arabia  to  Louisiana  were last at a negative $14,946 a day,
according to the Baltic Exchange in London, which publishes
daily rates for more than 50 maritime routes. Owners will pay
that amount because customers still cover some fuel expenses,
cutting costs for shipping companies wanting to move vessels
into more profitable regions. A supertanker travelling at full
speed burns about $65,000 of fuel a day.  The Baltic Exchange’s measure will probably stay negative
until at least the end of next year, said Erik Nikolai Stavseth,
an analyst at Arctic Securities. His recommendations on the
shares of shipping companies would have returned 17 percent to
investors following them in the past six months, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Owners’ returns from the voyages may be
higher than the bourse’s measure indicates because they can cut
their speed and reduce fuel costs, Stavseth said.  Frontline Ltd., the world’s biggest operator of
supertankers, says it needs $29,800 a day to break even on the
vessels. The Hamilton, Bermuda-based company will report a loss
of $67.6 million this year, the worst since 1999, according to
the mean of 20 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Its
shares fell 78 percent in Oslo trading this year.  Building Program  Rates that reached $105,000 in July 2008 spurred shipping
companies to create the biggest-ever building program for new
oil tankers of all sizes. The global fleet of supertankers, each
capable of carrying about 2 million barrels of oil, expanded by
10 percent to 550 since the end of 2008, with outstanding orders
at ship yards equal to 17 percent of existing capacity, data
from Redhill, England-based IHS Fairplay show.  While the Persian-Gulf-to-Japan tanker trade is the world’s
biggest by volume, the  route  to the U.S. takes about 13 days
more. That ties up ships for longer, decreasing competition for
new cargoes and supporting freight rates.  U.S.-bound shipments from the  Middle East  need to reach 2
million barrels a day to absorb the global glut of vessels, Jens Martin Jensen, the Singapore-based chief executive officer of
the management unit of Frontline, said on a conference call Aug.
26. Frontline isn’t competing for orders to deliver cargoes to
the U.S. from the Persian Gulf because of the slump in returns
for owners, Jensen said.  Freight Agreements  Forward freight agreements, traded by brokers and used to
bet on future transport costs, are anticipating rates no higher
than $17,613 a day through 2013, according to data from Imarex
ASA, which handles the contracts. The accords are based on the
Saudi-Arabia-to-Japan route, which was last at a negative $3,624
a day, according to the  Baltic Exchange . Returns on the route
reached $177,000 in July 2008.  Other types of shipping are also suffering from a glut of
capacity. Rates for capesizes, typically hauling coal and iron
ore, slumped 88 percent since June 2008, Baltic Exchange data
show. The container-shipping industry is contending with the
longest stretch of near-zero rates in its half-century history
on the Asia-to-Europe route, the world’s second-busiest,
according to Morgan Stanley.  About 90 percent of world trade is transported by sea, the
Round Table of Shipping Associations estimates. Supertankers
carry about a fifth of the world’s oil, according to McQuilling
Partners Inc., a New York-based consultant to the industry.  Oil Demand  The trend in U.S. oil demand suggests the glut in shipping
will persist. The country’s consumption of oil and other liquid
fuels will drop to 19.01 million barrels a day in the fourth
quarter, about 220,000 barrels less than a year earlier, the
U.S. Energy Information Administration said in its September
report. First-quarter usage will be 19.03 million barrels a day,
60,000 barrels less than in the first three months of this year.  As demand weakens, domestic oil output is surging as energy
companies drill the most wells in a generation, spurred by crude
prices trading more than 40 percent above their 10-year average.
First-half production of 5.58 million barrels a day was about 2
percent higher than a year earlier, according to Energy
Department data. There were 2,819 wells being drilled for
exploration or development in July, 84 percent more than a year
earlier and the most since 1986, the data show.  Crude traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  averaged
$96.32 a barrel since the beginning of January, heading for the
highest annual average since 2008. Oil for October delivery
closed at $87.24 on Sept. 9.  Oil Imports  Obama said in March the U.S. should cut its oil imports by
one third by 2025 and in May pledged to stimulate domestic oil
production with measures including encouraging drilling in
 Alaska . The president announced an agreement with automakers to
double the fuel economy of vehicles in July and the following
month an investment in biofuels of as much as $510 million.  The need for seaborne shipments is also being curbed by
record imports from  Canada , which uses pipelines and smaller
vessels to make deliveries. The U.S. bought 2.1 million barrels
of Canadian crude in the first half, about 7 percent more than a
year earlier, Energy Department data show.  Shipping companies are also contending with weaker-than-
expected global demand for oil. World crude consumption will
average 89.48 million barrels a day this year, 60,000 barrels
less than previously forecast, the Paris-based  International
Energy Agency  said in a report last month.  “You need pretty heady economic growth to get the tanker
market moving, and in this environment, it’s unlikely to
happen,” said Doug Mavrinac, a shipping analyst at Jefferies &
Co. in Houston. “We thought that how bad things were could have
turned given a certain set of circumstances, which now appears
to have been pushed out to 2012.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Sheridan in  London  at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net ;
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  