-- 
Canada Securities Watchdog to Hold Hearing on Sino-Forest Put Options Sale

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-09-12T22:45:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/sino-forest-hearing-on-put-contracts-scheduled-for-this-week-osc-says.html
The Ontario Securities Commission
will hold a hearing this week to consider modifying a temporary
cease-trade order on the Canadian shares of  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  to
allow the trading of some outstanding put options.  The Canadian Derivatives Clearing Corp. will petition the
agency tomorrow to allow the trading of put contracts linked to
Sino-Forest shares,  Canada ’s main securities watchdog said
yesterday in a  notice  on its website. A put is an agreement that
gives the holder the right to sell a security for a certain
amount by a set date.  In an order last week, the Toronto-based commission
extended a trading ban on Sino-Forest shares to Jan. 25 as it
investigates allegations of fraud at the Chinese tree-plantation
operator. The OSC ordered the cease-trade order on Aug. 26 and
said that officers and directors of Hong Kong- and Mississauga,
Ontario-based Sino-Forest may have engaged in acts “related to
its securities” that they “knew or should have known”
perpetrated a fraud.  Sino-Forest’s stock has plunged 74 percent in Toronto since
June 1, the day before short seller Carson Block’s  Muddy Waters 
LLC published a report alleging that the company overstated its
timber holdings. Sino-Forest has denied Muddy Waters’
allegations and has assigned an independent committee to
investigate the claims, hiring PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to
assist.  ‘Substantially in Excess’  The existing Sino-Forest cease-trade order prevents holders
of outstanding put contracts from exercising their rights under
the contracts, the CDCC said yesterday in a  letter  to the
securities commission.  There are about 8,993 outstanding put contracts, which
collectively entitle the holders to sell about 899,300 Sino-
Forest common shares “at prices substantially in excess of their
current values,” the CDCC said in the letter.  “The exercise of the put contracts does not constitute an
investment decision but merely the realization of the financial
consequences of the  investment decision  made at the time the put
contracts were entered into,” the CDCC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 