-- 
Smart Balance, Apple, Summit: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-09-12T11:01:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/smart-balance-apple-summit-righthaven-intellectual-property.html
Smart Balance Inc. (SMBL) ’s GFA Brands
unit and  Brandeis University  sued more than a dozen food
companies for allegedly infringing two patents related to
cholesterol reduction.  The suit, filed Sept. 9 in federal court in Madison,
 Wisconsin , targets makers of some of the best-known consumer
brands of cookies, other baked goods and spreads.  Among those accused of infringing the patents are low-fat
versions of Pillsbury Co.’s Grands Biscuits and Crescent Rolls,
 Nestle SA (NESN) ’s Tollhouse Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough,  Kellogg Co. (K) ’s
Keebler Vanilla Wafers and Famous Amos Chocolate Chip Cookies,
and Voortman Cookies Ltd.’s Fudge Striped Oatmeal Cookies.  In dispute are patents 5,843,497, issued in December 1998;
and 6,630,192, issued in October 2003. According to the
complaint, Paramus, New Jersey-based GFA Brands is the exclusive
licensee for both patents. Both patents are related to fats and
fat blends that decrease LDL cholesterol, sometimes known as the
“bad” cholesterol, and increase the HDL “good” cholesterol”
blood serum levels.  GFA and Brandeis said they have previously put all the
defendants on notice that they were infringing the patents, and
claim to be harmed by the defendants’ actions.  They asked the court to order the defendants to halt the
alleged infringement and for awards of money damages, litigation
costs and attorney fees. They requested extra damages intended
to punish the defendants for their actions.  Brandeis and GFA are represented by  Anthony A. Tomaselli ,
 Kristin Graham Noel ,  Martha Jahn Snyder  and  Stephen J. Gardner 
of Quarles & Brady LLP of  Milwaukee .  The case is Brandeis University v. East Side Ovens Inc.,
3:11-cv-00619, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Wisconsin (Madison).  Biggest Overhaul of Patent System Since 1952 Passes Senate  The Senate passed an overhaul of the U.S. patent system
that President  Barack Obama  has called crucial to his
administration’s effort to boost job growth.  In an 89-9 vote Sept. 8, the Senate cleared a bill passed
by the House in June that would fundamentally alter the way
patents are reviewed and mark the biggest change to U.S. patent
law since at least 1952. The measure, called the America Invents
Act, now heads to the White House for Obama’s signature.  The legislation, H.R. 1249, would let the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office set its own fees and exercise greater control
over its budget, providing the agency with more funding to
address a backlog of almost 700,000 applications awaiting first
review.  The legislation, which culminates more than six years of
negotiations and lobbying, covers every step of the patent
process, setting new procedures to review issued patents while
curtailing some litigation. It has the support of large
companies including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  and a group that represents  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,
 Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ,  3M Co. (MMM)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)   The funding provision, which also would let the agency
increase fees paid by inventors and patent owners, is the
cornerstone of the bill and has been a unifying issue even for
those who oppose other provisions. Since 1990, the agency says,
more than $800 million in fees have been diverted by lawmakers
to non-patent purposes.  The patent office is funded entirely by user fees. The
Obama administration says the money is needed to hire more
examiners and improve agency computer systems to cut the current
34-month wait for patent approval.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce,  Washington ’s largest business
lobbying organization, supported passage, as did the  United
Steelworkers . A group representing large technology companies
including Google Inc.,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  also  backed 
the measure.  A group of technology companies that includes InterDigital
Inc. and  Tessera Technologies Inc. (TSRA)  had said the House-passed
measure doesn’t do enough to guarantee more funding for the
patent office since the agency still has to get congressional
approval to spend money it collects above its annual budget.  Groups  representing  small businesses say the legislation
will benefit large companies over independent inventors, create
a rush to the patent office and establish onerous review
procedures that will weaken the power of patents to protect
inventions.  All newly issued patents may be subject to a challenge from
third parties, a variation of a process used by the  European
Patent Office . Third parties would be allowed to submit
information for consideration during the application process.  The bill also would limit patents on tax-avoidance
strategies, though companies including  Intuit Inc. (INTU)  and  H&R Block
Inc. (HRB)  have said they would retain protections for their tax-
preparation software.  Banks including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
would get new power to seek to cancel finance-related business
method patents that they argue are of questionable validity.
Companies that own such patents, including DataTreasury Corp.
and Trading Technologies International Inc., have accused the
banks of using their clout in Washington to avoid paying for
using someone else’s inventions.  The trade group for generic-drug companies including Mylan
Inc. and Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. opposes the bill because
there’s a provision that lets patent owners retroactively
correct errors that might otherwise lead a court to invalidate
the patents.  The Washington-based Generic Pharmaceutical Association
also objects to language in the bill that would ease deadlines
for seeking a patent-term extension granted to compensate
drugmakers for the time it takes to get regulatory approval.  The provision would provide a clear victory to  Medicines
Co. (MDCO) , which won a court ruling that it was entitled to an
extension even though it missed a deadline for an extension on
the main patent for its only drug, the anticoagulant Angiomax.  Fresenius SE (FRE) ’s APP Pharmaceuticals unit is appealing that
decision after the government said it wouldn’t challenge the
judge’s decision in favor of Medicines Co.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Apple Wins Ruling on German Samsung Galaxy 10.1 Tablet Ban  Apple Inc., the world’s most valuable technology company,
won backing from a German court for a ban on sales of Samsung
Electronics Co.’s Galaxy 10.1 tablet computer in the country.  A Dusseldorf court Sept. 9 upheld the temporary sales ban
it issued Aug. 9, rejecting Samsung’s bid to overturn it for the
most part. The judges won’t ban sales in other European Union
countries as Apple had sought, Presiding Judge Johanna
Brueckner-Hofmann said when delivering the verdict.  Apple, the maker of the iPad, won a second injunction at
the same court earlier, forcing Samsung to pull the new Galaxy
Tab 7.7 out of the IFA consumer-electronics show in Berlin. The
legal dispute between Cupertino, California-based Apple and its
closest rival in tablet computers is intensifying as an
increasing number of consumers use devices such as tablets and
smartphones to surf the Web, play games and download music.  “The court is of the opinion that Apple’s minimalistic
design isn’t the only technical solution to make a tablet
computer, other designs are possible,” Brueckner-Hofmann said.
“For the informed customer there remains the predominant
overall impression that the device looks” like the design Apple
has protected in  Europe .  Samsung said it will appeal. The ruling “severely limits
consumer choice in  Germany ” and “restricts design innovation
and progress in the industry,” the company said in a statement
e-mailed after the ruling was issued.  The court didn’t compare the Galaxy tablet with the actual
iPad and instead focused on a design Apple filed with the
European Union  intellectual property  agency in Alicante,  Spain ,
Brueckner-Hofmann said.  Samsung’s tablet didn’t keep enough distance from the Apple
design, the judge said. While the back of the Galaxy is
different from Apple’s registered design, the important feature
is the front, which is nearly identical, she said.  “The crucial issue was whether the Galaxy tablet looked
like the drawings registered as a design right,” she said.
“Also, our case had nothing to do with trademarks or patents
for technology.”  The EU-wide ban was upheld for Samsung’s German sales unit.
The court doesn’t have jurisdiction to issue an EU-ban against
Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung, itself, Brueckner-Hofmann
said.  Strategy Analytics analyst  Neil Mawston  forecasts tablet
sales could rise to about 2.4 million units in Germany this year
from 0.6 million in 2010, making it Europe’s third-largest
market after the U.K. and  France .  The Dusseldorf court on Aug. 9 granted Apple a preliminary
sales ban in 26 of the 27 EU member countries, only to scale
back its reach a week later over jurisdictional issues.  The Sept. 9 case is: LG Dusseldorf, 14c O 194/11.  Summit Entertainment  Claims Twilight.com Website Infringes Marks  Summit Entertainment LLC, the film studio that makes the
“Twilight” series of films, sued the owner of the  twilight.com 
Website for trademark infringement.  According to the complaint filed Sept. 2 in federal court
in  Los Angeles , Tom Markson of  San Mateo ,  California , is accused
of using the “Twilight” trademarks on his site, falsely
leading the public to believe his is the official website
associated with the movies.  Summit said it first sent Markson a cease-and-desist letter
in April 2009, and in response received a denial he was
infringing the company’s intellectual property. Attempts to
resolve the dispute through negotiations have failed, according
to court papers.  Markson first registered the twilight.com domain name in
February 2004, four years before the release of the first
“Twilight” film, Summit claimed. The first of Stephenie
Meyer’s teen-vampire “Twilight” novels, on which the films are
based, was released in October 2005, according to  the author’s
website .  The owner of the website changed its content after the
first movie was released to focus on the film, Summit said in
its complaint. The film company said the site made unauthorized
use of its copyrighted material in addition to the “Twilight”
trademarks.  The site generates revenue for the owner through click-
through ads, banner ads, sponsored links and affiliate programs,
according to court papers. Markson markets his site to the same
group of consumers that are targets of the film company’s
advertising, Summit said.  The film company said it’ has been damaged by Markson’s
actions, and asked the court to bar him from further
infringement. Additionally, Summit asked for awards of money
damages, attorney fees and litigation costs. Alleging the
infringement is deliberate, Summit seeks extra damages to punish
Markson and his company -- TM Consulting -- for their actions.  When accessed Sept. 9, the twilight.com website didn’t have
any contact information for Markson. The site did contain links
to  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s listings for Meyer’s books, DVDs of the
films, and MP3 file downloads for the music used in the movies,
and related merchandise.  Summit is represented by  Jill M. Pietrini ,  Diana Iketani
Iorlano  and  Paul A. Bost  of Los Angeles-based Manatt Phelps &
Phillips LLP.  The case is Summit Entertainment v. Markson, 2:11-cv-07296,
U.S. District Court, Central District of California.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Righthaven Tells Court Bankruptcy May Await Over Fee Awards  Righthaven LLC, the Las Vegas-based entity that has filed
more than 200 copyright-infringement cases in recent months,
told a federal judge it may need to seek protection through
bankruptcy proceedings.  The company made this revelation in a Sept. 9 court filing
asking that attorney fee awards made to a defendant be stayed
until an appeal is completed.  Righthaven hasn’t fared well in its recent cases. Courts
have questioned its standing to enforce the copyrights to
content that appeared in Stephens Media Group’s newspapers. In
one of the cases, a court in  Las Vegas  ordered Righthaven to pay
attorney fees to a defendant by Sept. 14.  The company said its copyright-infringement cases have been
stayed since May 19, pending a ruling on the standing issue. It
has delayed filing new suits until the standing determination is
made, Righthaven said.  “Throughout this period and despite a lack of incoming
revenue given that numerous pending actions are stayed,
Righthaven has continued to incur operating expenses,” the
company said in its pleadings.  Righthaven claimed in its filing to be concerned that if
its assets were seized as a result of its financial
difficulties, it “would then be faced with the impossible task
of trying to recapture essential intellectual property assets
that were seized and liquidated during the appeals process.”  The IP assets to which Righthaven refers are “all
copyright works assigned by Stephens Media,” according to the
court filing. In an accompanying declaration, Righthaven counsel
Shawn A. Mangano also identified “a proprietary search engine
software program that it uses to identify potential infringes on
the Internet” as one of the company’s IP assets.  The case is Righthaven LLC v. Hoehn, 2:11-cv-00050, U.S.
District Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Belgian Koi Farmers Fall Prey to Industrial Espionage, AFP Says  Farmers of Japanese koi carp in  Belgium  are falling prey to
industrial espionage that has gone on for at least 20 years,
Agence France Presse  reported .  The  ornamental fish , which can sell for as much as 350,000
Euros ($500,000), are considered moving works of art by
collectors, according to AFP.  Recovery of a stolen fish is difficult, and the few
insurance policies that cover the fish come with premiums as
high as a third of the animal’s value, the news service said.  The industrial espionage, theft and occasional pond
poisonings are believed to be the work of experienced, organized
gangs knowledgeable about the fish and their avid collectors,
according to AFP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 