-- 
Societe Generale Plans to Sell $5.4 Billion in Assets to Boost Its Capital

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-09-12T12:39:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/societe-generale-to-sell-eu4-billion-in-assets-by-2013.html
Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,  France ’s
third-largest bank by assets, plans to free up 4 billion euros
($5.4 billion) in capital through disposals by 2013 to reassure
investors about its finances.  The lender’s exposure to Greek bonds is about 900 million
euros and it has “no significant” holdings of Irish or
Portuguese debt, the Paris-based bank said today in a statement.
Societe Generale aims to cut the cost base of its investment
bank by 5 percent and have a core Tier 1 capital ratio “well
above” 9 percent by 2013 with no capital increase. The company
is also shedding jobs at retail networks in  Russia ,  Romania , the
Czech Republic and  Egypt , it said.  “This is going in the right direction but it’s also a
proof of difficulties,” said Christophe Nijdam, an analyst at
AlphaValue in Paris who has a “buy” rating on the stock.  Societe Generale fell as much as 13 percent to 15.22 euros
and was trading down 8.1 percent at 16.03 euros by 1:22 p.m. in
Paris trading, giving it a market value of 12.4 billion euros.
The shares have lost about 60 percent of their value this year.  Disposals “will come mostly from asset management and
financial services,” Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea 
told reporters today on a conference call. “August marked a
real rupture. The direction of change is the same, but the
rhythm must be accelerated.”  Rating Cuts?  The bank, along with French rivals  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and
Credit Agricole SA, may have their credit ratings cut by Moody’s
Investors Service this week because of their investments in
Greece, two people with knowledge of the matter said. Moody’s
placed the three banks’ ratings on review in June.  “The French banks have no capital problem,” said Oudea,
who is also the rotating head of the French Banking Federation.
There are no talks between the government and French banks about
any recapitalization, he said.  Bank of France Governor Christian Noyer said today that
French lenders are capable of facing any Greek response to
sovereign-debt difficulties and have no liquidity or solvency
problems.  Greece “is not an issue” for Societe Generale as the bank
reduced its net exposure to the country’s government debt, Oudea
said. A hypothetical writedown of as much as 50 percent would
lead to net losses of between 100 million euros and 150 million
euros for the bank, the CEO said.  Trimming Businesses  Overall, Societe Generale has “low, declining and
manageable sovereign exposure” of 4.3 billion euros to  Italy ,
 Spain ,  Portugal , Ireland and  Greece , the bank said.  The lender is planning to cut its corporate- and
investment-banking balance sheet by scaling down businesses
“adversely affected by the regulation or with low cross-selling
potential,” the bank said.  Within its corporate- and investment-banking division,
Societe Generale may trim businesses such as aircraft finance,
shipping, leveraged finance and commercial real-estate financing
in the U.S., Oudea said, declining to give further details.  Societe Generale said disposals of risky assets, including
asset-backed securities, will continue at a “high pace.” The
company has made 3.5 billion euros of disposals of risky assets
in the third quarter, more than the amount in the first and
second quarters combined, according to the bank’s website.  The lender had 24.3 billion euros of risky assets as of
Sept. 7.  Risky Assets  Societe Generale has completed its 2011 long-term funding
program, it said. Cutting risky assets, using swaps between the
euro and  U.S. dollar  in the  interbank market  and reducing its
short-term market activities are among measures that have helped
the company lower its reliance on unsecured U.S. dollar short-
term funding, the bank said.  “The masses at play are modest on the scale of SocGen’s
balance sheet,” Oudea said, referring to short-term funding in
U.S. dollars. “We’ll avoid this becoming a significant topic.”  Societe Generale will slash 2,000 jobs at its Russian
retail-banking business in 2012 and also plans to reduce staff
in the  Czech Republic , Romania and Egypt, Oudea said, without
providing more details.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in London at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  