-- 
South African Consumer Confidence Slumps to a Two-Year Low as Growth Eases

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-09-12T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/south-africa-s-consumer-confidence-slumps-to-a-two-year-low.html
South African  consumer confidence 
dropped to a two-year low in the third quarter as the economic
recovery lost momentum, reducing households’ appetite for
continued spending,  First National Bank  said.  The FNB/BER consumer confidence index dropped to 4 from 11
in the second quarter, First National Bank and the  Bureau for
Economic Research  said in an e-mailed statement today.  Consumers account for about two-thirds of expenditure in
 Africa ’s biggest economy and a drop in spending may undermine
economic growth, which slowed to a two-year low of 1.3 percent
in the second quarter, according to the statistics office. The
South African Reserve Bank, which makes its next interest rate
decision on Sept. 22, has kept the benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 5.5 percent this year to help spur spending.  “More consumers expect the economic performance to
deteriorate and some of these foresee that this will also hurt
their own finances over the next 12 months,” FNB said in the
statement. “ Consumer spending  is likely to moderate should
consumer confidence remain at this lower level in subsequent
quarters.”  The sub-index measuring consumers’ views of expected
economic performance dropped to 2 in the third quarter from 17
in the previous three months, the biggest decline since the
second quarter of 2008, when the global financial crisis began,
FNB said.  Retail sales rose 2.2 percent in June from a year earlier,
after increasing 0.2 percent in the previous month, the
statistics office said on Aug. 17. Sales growth slowed from 10
percent in April.  Pick n Pay Stores Ltd.,  South Africa ’s second-biggest
grocer, said on July 6 it may fire about 8.6 percent of its
workforce after profit slumped. Retailers are facing greater
competition after Wal-Mart Stores Inc. bought a 51 percent stake
in Johannesburg-based Massmart Holdings Ltd. in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 