-- 
Stosur, Stosur Everywhere Now Feels Right After Victory in U.S. Open Final

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-09-12T22:01:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/stosur-stosur-everywhere-now-feels-right-after-victory-in-u-s-open-final.html
Samantha Stosur said she used to
feel undeserving of her status as poster child of the Australian
Open tennis tournament.  Pictures of the Brisbane native were everywhere during the
first Grand Slam of the season, played January in  Melbourne . She
was in the airport, on the street and in stores.  “Everywhere I turned I saw myself,” the 27-year-old
Stosur said in an interview in New York today.  After taking 73 minutes to beat 13-time major champion
Serena Williams 6-2, 6-3 in the U.S. Open final yesterday, the
doubts have disappeared, she said.  “Winning it two and three doesn’t seem possible against an
opponent like Serena,” Stosur said.  The most vivid memories of her biggest win are recorded in
mental snapshots, Stosur said. She can recall walking onto the
biggest court in the sport and can see the final shot avoiding
her opponent’s racket before getting hoisted into the stands.  Stosur came close to her first Grand Slam title last year
at the  French Open , where she lost in the final to Francesca Schiavone.  “Lots of people come up to you -- past champions -- saying
you’ll get another shot,” Stosur said. “You don’t know if
that’s really possible.”  Thoughts of one Grand Slam have already turned toward two.  “I want it again,” she said. “It’s the best feeling in
the world.”  While she said her agent’s phone is ringing and e-mail
offers keep coming, Stosur said she isn’t preoccupied with the
fame or endorsements that come with winning on the sport’s
biggest stage.  “This is what I’ve always played for,” said Stosur,
placing both hands on the  U.S. Open trophy , which hasn’t yet
been engraved with her name. “Nothing else.”  Childhood Idol  As a child, Stosur admired Steffi Graf, who won the U.S.
Open five times.  “Some of my idols are on that trophy,” she said, “and
now my name is under them.”  The next Grand Slam tournament is the Australian Open,
where Stosur will be lauded as the first Australian woman in 31
years to win a major singles title.  The world No. 7 said she knows how much hype will surround
her in Melbourne.  “Now,” Stosur said, “I feel that’s all deserving.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  