-- 
Suzuki Seeks ‘Divorce’ From Volkswagen as Their 20-Month Alliance Crumbles

-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i ,   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a ,   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 
2011-09-12T10:13:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/suzuki-executives-to-discuss-ending-capital-alliance-with-volkswagen.html
Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  will seek to
dissolve its 20-month-old alliance with  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  after the
German carmaker’s 222.5 billion yen ($2.9 billion) investment
failed to yield a single project.  The Japanese automaker, which owns 1.49 percent of
Volkswagen, plans to sell its holdings if Volkswagen agrees to
end the tie-up, the company said in a statement to the Tokyo
Stock Exchange. The Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker owns 19.9
percent of Suzuki, according to Bloomberg data.  Suzuki will seek to end the pact with Volkswagen, even if
the German automaker wants to maintain it, Chairman  Osamu Suzuki 
said today in Tokyo. Volkswagen today said the company has no
plans to dissolve its alliance with the Japanese carmaker.  “The relationship is like a marriage and a divorce,” said
Chairman Suzuki. “We should just have a simple break up with a
smile and say we weren’t meant for each other.”  The two carmakers stopped talking after Volkswagen
described its partner as an “associate” in its annual  report .
Volkswagen has no intention of selling or reducing its stake in
Suzuki, spokesman Michael Brendel said today. Suzuki has broken
the partnership agreement between the two carmakers by deciding
to buy engines from Italian automaker  Fiat SpA (F) , he said.  ‘Notoriously Independent’  “We’ve known that Suzuki is a notoriously independent
company with a chairman who is not going to bend over backwards
to cooperate,” said  Ashvin Chotai , a London-based managing
director at Intelligence Automotive Asia Ltd. “Volkswagen is
better off focusing on a non-Suzuki-based strategy for  India  and
 Indonesia .”  Suzuki decided to seek an end to its capital alliance with
Volkswagen at an unscheduled board meeting today, according to
the statement. Suzuki wants to buy the stake Volkswagen owns and
has enough cash to do so, Chairman Suzuki said.
“You can lead a horse to water but you can’t make it drink,”
said Chairman Suzuki. “We need to mutually discuss and come to
a conclusion.”  Suzuki fell 2.8 percent to 1,484 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
trading in  Tokyo . The stock has dropped 28 percent from the
2,061 yen per share that VW paid in mid-January 2010.  Failed Alliance  The Japanese carmaker said it didn’t break the cooperation
agreement with Volkswagen and it doesn’t expect the break up
will lead to fines, according to Executive Vice President
Yasuhito Harayama.  Suzuki and Volkswagen’s partnership would not be the first
German-Japanese automakers’ alliance to fail.  Daimler AG (DAI)  bought a 37 percent stake in Mitsubishi Motors
Corp. in 2000 and 2001. The holding was unwound in 2005 after
two years of sales declines at the Japanese carmaker. Revenue
plunged after Mitsubishi Motors admitted to hiding defects,
pushing it to a record 215.4 billion yen loss in the year ended
March 2004.  In contrast,  France ’s  Renault SA (RNO)  and  Japan ’s Nissan Motor
Co. formed an alliance in 1999 that has lasted more than a
decade. Daimler joined the alliance in April 2010 by giving a
3.1 percent stake to both carmakers.  Mitsubishi Motors and PSA Peugeot Citroen also have a
successful partnership, said Masatoshi Nishimoto, a Tokyo-based
IHS auto analyst.  Mitsubishi-Peugeot  Mitsubishi and Peugeot began a partnership in 2005 when the
Japanese carmaker began supplying a car based on its Outlander
sport-utility vehicle to its French partner. Since then, they’ve
built a factory together in  Russia  that started operating last
September, and Peugeot in 2010 announced it would sell electric
cars supplied by Mitsubishi.  VW and Suzuki initially said they intended to cooperate on
technology, including hybrids and electric cars and on expanding
in emerging markets. In a deal signed in December 2009, VW took
a 19.9 percent Suzuki stake.  Chairman Suzuki said today that the company “sees no
reason why Volkswagen would be upset” about Suzuki expanding
its purchase of engines from Fiat.  Suzuki formed an alliance with Fiat to make diesel engines
in  Asia  in 2005. In June this year, it expanded the agreement to
buy engines from Fiat in  Hungary . Chairman Suzuki said the
automaker explained its engine alliance with Fiat to Volkswagen
CEO  Martin Winterkorn  in January 2011.  Leading in India  The partnership was also meant to combine Suzuki’s leading
position in India, Asia’s second-fastest growing major economy,
with Volkswagen’s global reach as the world’s third-biggest
carmaker.  VW, which forecasts deliveries will rise 5 percent this
year after selling 7.2 million vehicles in 2010, aims to surpass
Toyota Motor Corp. and General Motors Co. as the world’s largest
carmaker by 2018 and is targeting India as an expanding market.  Suzuki, which sold 2.64 million cars in its last fiscal
year, delivered 1.13 million of those vehicles in India. VW sold
53,300 cars in the country in 2010.  Chairman Suzuki hasn’t found any VW technologies he’d like
to adopt following an extensive review of what they have to
offer, he wrote in a Nikkei newspaper column in July. Suzuki in
July also said it was open to forming alliances with others.  “The relationship between VW and Suzuki has been ill-fated
from the start,” said Christopher Richter, senior analyst at
CLSA in Tokyo. “The two partners really didn’t understand each
other.”  Small-Car Market  Volkswagen’s Winterkorn said in May the automaker planned
to target the small-car segment in India as a potential joint
project with Suzuki, as well as parts procurement and
development of alternative-drive technologies.  Suzuki has a dominant position in India, where its  Maruti
Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL)  unit is the market leader, while competition
is intensifying. A successful alliance would allow Suzuki’s
India unit to benefit from VW’s global reach and product
portfolio, with more than 60 models at the namesake brand alone.  Maruti Suzuki will sell 36 percent of the 3.07 million
vehicles delivered in India in 2011, IHS Automotive estimates.
Overall sales in the market will climb 76 percent to 5.41
million in 2016, with Maruti Suzuki nabbing 25 percent,
according to IHS forecasts.  Suzuki previously had a 27-year equity alliance with GM,
which resulted in joint product development and global
purchasing. The partnership ended as GM headed toward
bankruptcy. The Detroit-based  carmaker  sold a 17 percent stake
in 2006 to raise $2 billion and strengthen its balance sheet. It
unwound its remaining 3 percent stake in 2008.  “This is a setback for VW, they counted on Suzuki to help
them conquer low-cost segments in Asia and now it all seems in
tatters,” said  Stefan Bratzel , director of Center of Automotive
Management at the University of Applied Sciences in Bergisch-
Gladbach,  Germany . “With its 50 percent share of the Indian
market, Suzuki was tailor-made as a partner for VW.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  