-- 
Suzuki Denies Breaking Agreement With Volkswagen by Buying Fiat Engines

-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i ,   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a   a n d   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-09-12T03:50:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/suzuki-denies-breaking-agreement-with-volkswagen-by-buying-fiat-engines.html
Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  said it didn’t
break a cooperation agreement with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , after the
German carmaker said the Japanese company violated terms by
deciding to buy engines from  Fiat SpA. (F)   Suzuki “definitely” didn’t break the partnership
agreement, Hideki Taguchi, a spokesman for the Hamamatsu City,
Japan-based automaker, said today by phone. Suzuki decided in
June to buy  diesel engines  from Fiat for cars built in  Hungary ,
expanding its partnership with the Italian carmaker.  Volkswagen and Suzuki have been at odds since VW said in
its annual  report  published in March that it could
“significantly influence financial and operating policy
decisions” at Suzuki, describing the Japanese company as an
“associate.”  VW said in a statement today that it has given Suzuki
“several weeks” to remedy the alleged infringement.  “Volkswagen considers this step regrettable, but
necessary, and has offered to discuss the matter with Suzuki,”
the Wolfsburg, Germany-based company said.  ‘Challenging Suzuki’  “VW’s statement seems like they are challenging Suzuki,
and shows that they aren’t backing down,” said  Satoru Takada ,
an analyst at TIW Inc. in  Tokyo . “I don’t think Suzuki would
back down either, and if VW wants to expand in emerging markets,
they wouldn’t want to lose their partnership with Suzuki.”  Osamu Suzuki, the Japanese carmaker’s chairman, said in an
interview on Aug. 10 that the company “sees no reason why
Volkswagen would be upset” about Suzuki expanding its purchase
of engines from Fiat.  Suzuki formed an alliance with Fiat to make diesel engines
in Asia in 2005. In June this year, it expanded the agreement to
buy engines from Fiat in Hungary.  Suzuki fell 2 percent to 1,496 yen as of 12:36 p.m. in
Tokyo trading. The stock has dropped 27 percent from the 2,061
yen that VW paid per share in January 2010, totaling 222.5
billion yen ($2.9 billion) in forming the alliance.  The public feud has brought to a halt VW’s efforts to form
an operational alliance. The partnership was meant to combine
Suzuki’s leading position in  India ,  Asia ’s second-fastest
growing major economy, with Volkswagen’s global reach as the
world’s third-biggest carmaker.  ‘Latest Setback’  “This is the latest setback in a so-called partnership
that has been developing anything but well,”  Juergen Pieper , an
analyst at Bankhaus Metzler in  Frankfurt  who recommends buying
VW stock, said yesterday by phone. “The two sides have quite a
bit of work to do to set aside tensions and focus on business.”  When the deal was signed in December 2009, with VW taking
about a 20 percent Suzuki stake, the companies said they
intended to cooperate on technology, including hybrids and
electric cars, and expansion in emerging markets. Almost two
years later, no joint projects have begun.  VW, which forecasts deliveries will rise 5 percent this
year after selling 7.2 million vehicles in 2010, aims to surpass
Toyota Motor Corp. and  General Motors Co. (GM)  as the world’s largest
carmaker by 2018 and is targeting India as an expanding market
to boost sales. Suzuki, which sold 2.64 million cars in its last
fiscal year, delivered 1.13 million of those vehicles in India.
VW sold 53,300 cars in the country in 2010.  Keeping Stake  Volkswagen has no plans to sell or decrease its Suzuki
stake, Christine Ritz, VW’s investor relations chief, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. VW said the carmaker still views
Suzuki as “an attractive investment.”  VW is of the opinion that Suzuki has rolled back the
partnership to square one by keeping its German ally in the dark
about the Fiat plans and its intentions to seek alliances with
rivals, a person familiar with VW’s thinking said last month. VW
Chief Financial Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch said on a July 28
conference call that the partnership is under “review.” That
review is still ongoing, VW said.  A successful relationship depends on an understanding that
the two are equal partners, two Suzuki executives, who declined
to be publicly identified discussing the matter, said last
month. The company aims to clarify what direction it wants to
take with the partnership by October, one of the executives
said.  VW Technologies  “Volkswagen keeps talking to the media, but not to us
directly,” Chairman Suzuki said in the Aug. 10 interview.  Osamu Suzuki hasn’t found any VW technologies he’d like to
adopt following an extensive review of what they have to offer,
he wrote in a Nikkei newspaper column in July. Suzuki also said
in July the automaker was open to forming alliances with others.  Volkswagen Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said
in May the automaker planned to target the small-car segment in
India as a potential joint project with Suzuki, as well as parts
procurement and development of alternative-drive technologies.  While Suzuki has a dominant position in India, where its
 Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL)  unit is the market leader, increasing
competition means holding onto the top spot will become harder.
VW’s global reach and product portfolio, with more than 60
models at the namesake brand alone, could help.  Maruti Suzuki will sell 36 percent of the 3.07 million
vehicles delivered in India in 2011, IHS Automotive estimates.
Overall sales in the market will climb 76 percent to 5.41
million in 2016, with Maruti Suzuki nabbing 25 percent,
according to IHS forecasts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net ;
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  