-- 
Swatch Group Says It’s Ending Tiffany Alliance, Alleging Contract Breach

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-09-12T16:04:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/swatch-group-says-it-s-ending-tiffany-alliance-alleging-contract-breach.html
Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the biggest maker
of Swiss watches, is ending its alliance with  Tiffany & Co. (TIF) ,
alleging the U.S. jeweler breached its contract by blocking
development of the business.  Swatch will claim damages from Tiffany to compensate for
“long-term future business,” the Biel, Switzerland-based
watchmaker said in a statement today. The move followed
Tiffany’s “systematic efforts” to delay growth of the watch
brand, Swatch said.  Tiffany said in a statement that it “has honored its
obligations under the agreement, and insisted that Swatch honor
its own obligations, particularly its obligation to respect
Tiffany’s rights regarding brand management and product
design.”  The companies formed the alliance in 2008 to develop, make
and sell watches under the Tiffany brand, agreeing to share the
profits. Swatch said the venture will shut down within two years
as it terminates contracts to cooperate with New York-based
Tiffany.  The split “is a pity because Tiffany watches would have
boosted sales in the area of jewelry watches,” a segment where
Swatch is “weak,” Patrick Hasenboehler, an analyst at Bank
Sarasin, wrote in a research note. The end of the alliance won’t
have a major effect on forecasts in the short and medium term,
he added.  Swatch closed little changed at 354 Swiss francs in Zurich
trading. The stock has declined about 15 percent this year.  The agreement was set to last 20 years and could have been
extended for an additional 10 years. The collaboration was run
by Swatch Group Chairwoman Nayla Hayek.  The end of the agreement isn’t a surprise as neither side
was “satisfied with the success of the contract and sales were
behind expectations,” said Rene Weber, an analyst at Bank
Vontobel in Zurich.  The agreement allowed Swatch to operate Tiffany watch
stores in markets outside the U.S. and offer a selection of
Tiffany jewelry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  