-- 
U.K. Home-Price Expectations Drop on Risk From Faltering Economic Recovery

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-09-12T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/u-k-home-price-expectations-drop-on-risk-from-faltering-economic-recovery.html
A U.K. house-price index was little
changed in August and an expectations gauge dropped as a cloudy
economic outlook weighed on property demand, the  Royal
Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said.  The number of real-estate agents and surveyors saying
prices fell last month exceeded those seeing gains by 23
percentage points, compared with 22 percentage points in July,
the London-based group said in an e-mailed report today. A price
expectations measure fell to minus 23 from minus 13.  The government has refused to compromise on the pace of the
biggest fiscal squeeze since World War II and is counting on the
 Bank of England  to support the economy. With consumers being
squeezed by inflation that’s more than double the central bank’s
2 percent target, that’s damping confidence, leaving the
mortgage market little improved in the past year.  “Demand for homes remain broadly steady, albeit at
relatively low levels,” RICS spokesman Alan Collett said in the
statement. “However, the risk is that the worsening economic
picture will gradually begin to have a more material impact on
sentiment and discourage potential house purchasers even where
mortgage finance is available.”  The average number of sales per real-estate agent in the
quarter through August fell 1.4 percent to 14, the lowest in 26
months, the report said.  Of the 11 regions RICS tracks,  London  was the only area to
record an increase in prices over the past three months, with
the gauge for the capital rising to a 15-month high. The biggest
declines were in East Anglia and the West Midlands.  Mortgages Flat  U.K. mortgage approvals have held below 50,000 in every
month but one since the start of 2010. The National Institute of
Economic and Social Research said last week economic growth
slowed to 0.2 percent in the three months through August, down
from 0.6 percent in the quarter to July.  Policy makers held their benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low of 0.5 percent and kept their bond-purchase plan at
200 billion pounds ($316 billion) last week. Higher energy costs
may have pushed inflation to 4.5 percent in August, according to
the median estimate of 34 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
The  Office for National Statistics  will publish the data at 9:30
a.m. in London.  “People are mainly sat on their hands waiting to see what
happens to their employment and future financial prospects,
Clive Rutland at Rutland Chartered Surveyors in Hampshire,
 England , said in the statement. ‘‘People are generally being
squeezed and there is no appetite to take risks.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  