-- 
Britain to Implement Vickers’ Bank Protection Plan by 2019

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-09-12T15:52:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/u-k-banks-may-have-to-separate-retail-units-in-11-billion-vickers-plan.html
Britain’s government will force
lenders to insulate their consumer banking units by 2019 as
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  seeks to shield
customers and taxpayers from another financial crisis.  The Independent Commission on Banking, chaired by former
Bank of England Chief Economist  John Vickers , recommended in a
360-page report published today that banks build fire breaks
between their consumer and investment banks. The plans will cost
the industry as much 7 billion pounds ($11 billion), the report
said. Osborne, 40, pledged the government will legislate by the
end of the current parliamentary session in 2015. British bank
shares fell.  “John Vickers has set out a timetable,” Osborne told
reporters today. “I intend to stick to his timetable.”  The government last year asked Vickers, 53, to chair a
commission considering ways to enhance competition and reduce
the risks posed by the financial industry. U.K. banks including
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and
Barclays Plc lobbied the commission and the government to delay
implementation if it went ahead with the fire break plan,
arguing it could harm the U.K.’s faltering economic recovery.  “The proposals that we recommend pose no significant risk
to the economic recovery,” Vickers said at the press
conference. “Indeed the lesson from recent weakness and the
strains being shown by banks show just how important it is to
reform the banking system.”  ‘Pick-and-Mix’  Asked whether politicians might accept some of the
proposals and not others, Vickers said “pick-and-mix would be a
grave mistake.” The commission had designed a coherent package
and weakening the fire breaks “could blow apart the whole
concept,” he told journalists.  Once the recommendations are implemented, the so-called
ring-fenced units will include all checking accounts, mortgages,
credit cards and lending to small- and medium-sized companies,
the report said. As much as a third of U.K. bank assets, or
about 2.3 trillion pounds, will be included, the document said.
Trading and investment banking activities will be excluded from
the ring-fence.  “The commission believes that ring-fencing would achieve
the principal stability benefits of full separation but at lower
cost to the economy,” the commission said in the report.  Since 2007, the British state has been forced to spend,
pledge and loan 850 billion pounds to rescue British banks,
according to the National Audit Office.  Osborne described the report as “impressive” and “an
important step towards a new banking system that supports
lending to businesses and families, supports the economy and
jobs, but doesn’t cost the taxpayer billions of pounds when it
goes wrong,” according to an e-mailed statement today.  ‘Unwelcome and Unhelpful’  The report “is unwelcome and unhelpful, but it could
easily have been a whole lot worse,” according to  Ian Gordon ,
an analyst at Evolution Securities in  London  said in a note to
clients today. “The additional breathing space will certainly
avoid any lingering fears of a requirement for fresh equity
issuance, and most importantly, allows banks some planning time
to mitigate the likely adverse impact of segmentation on funding
costs.”  Large banks should hold between 17 percent and 20 percent
of “loss absorbing capacity” the report said, including
equity. The remainder could be held as bail-in bonds, it said.  “Barclays will be the bank that is hit the most by this,”
followed by RBS, said Shailesh Raikundlia, a banking analyst at
MF Global Ltd. in London. Both London-based Barclays and
Edinburgh-based RBS operate investment banks.  ‘Strong Challenger’  RBS led British banks lower, falling by 3.4 percent to
20.77 pence at the close of London trading, while HSBC Holdings
Plc lost 2.4 percent to 492.55 pence, Barclays dropped 1.6
percent to 141.65 pence and Lloyds declined 1.6 percent to 30.56
pence. The Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index
fell 4.7 percent as  Germany  prepared plans to aid banks if
Greece defaults.  RBS, Lloyds and Barclays have dropped by more than 50
percent since the ICB’s first report in April. HSBC and  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN) , British banks that earn most of their profit
outside Europe, declined by 26 percent and 21 percent over the
same period.  While the commission stuck to its argument that Lloyds be
forced to sell additional branches beyond the 632 required by
European Union regulators, it said the government and the bank
should negotiate the details.  A “strong challenger” bank should result, with at least 6
percent of the consumer checking account market. That’s 1.4
percentage points more than Lloyds agreed to sell in 2009 after
receiving state aid.  ‘Real Danger’  There is “a real danger” that Lloyds’s current asset
program “will fall back into the range of small banks that have
not exerted a strong competitive constraint in the past,” the
report said.  Ring-fenced banks would have an independent board, the
report said. Unless the protected part of the bank is the
majority of the lender, most directors in the insulated bank
should be independent non-executives. The protected lender will
make its own disclosures to regulators, it said.  The report also recommended that ringfenced banks hold more
capital than required by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision . The Basel III rules require banks to more 7 percent
of risk-weighted assets in core capital, and the biggest
lenders, so-called systemically important financial
institutions, to hold as much as a further 2.5 percentage points
in additional capital.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Barclays, Lloyds, RBS, Santander U.K.
Plc and  Nationwide Building Society  should hold 3 percentage
points more capital on top of the 7 percent required by Basel.
Co-operative Bank, Clydesdale Bank and the lender that Lloyds is
selling should hold 1 percentage point to 3 percentage points
more.  ‘Thoughtful Policy’  The commission’s plan to make the largest U.K. banks hold
equity capital of 10 percent of risk-weighted assets “exceeds”
Basel’s surcharges for systemically important financial
institutions, the report said today.  “The arguments for separating retail banking from global
wholesale and investment banking are sound,” said the
 Investment Management Association , which represents British
funds managing over 3.9 trillion pounds of assets on behalf of
U.K. and overseas clients. “This is a thoughtful policy
approach for protecting taxpayers from the potential damage of
another banking blow-up.”  Credit-Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps on U.K. banks rose to records.
Contracts on  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s senior debt climbed 29 basis points
to 289, while swaps on Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc notes
increased 22 basis points to 390, according to CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13.6 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Creating a firewall “is at best a weak gesture and at
worst a pointless act which will not in any material way impact
the behavior or culture at the top of the banks where this
crisis was born,” said  David Fleming , national officer of the
Unite trade union, which represents bank workers. “Greedy
bankers” will find ways to maneuver around, and lobby against
these reforms,” he said.  “The Vickers Report fails to deal with what really needs
to be done to transform our banks,” Trades Union Congress
General Secretary  Brendan Barber  told the labor movement’s
annual meeting in London today. “Let’s argue for real reform of
our financial system, turning the banks from casinos that enrich
themselves into utilities that serve us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  