-- 
U.K. Soccer Clubs Rein in Player Wages Amid Economic Slowdown, Survey Says

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-09-12T23:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/u-k-soccer-clubs-rein-in-player-wages-amid-economic-slowdown-survey-says.html
Most U.K. soccer clubs are freezing
player wages as a sluggish economy hurts ticket and jersey
sales, accountancy firm  PKF (U.K.) LLP  said, citing a survey of
the financial directors of 41 teams.  Only a fifth of the clubs intend to increase payroll this
season and none plan to increase squad size, PKF said in a
statement. Many teams offered to trade players on free transfers
in the offseason, according to Trevor Birch, head of corporate
recovery in  London  at PKF.  U.K. economic growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the three
months through August, the National Institute of Economic and
Social Research said Sept. 7.  “Football clubs have realized they need to make tough
choices with wage-related costs to get their finances back on
track -- albeit several years later than most other British
businesses,” Birch said in a statement. “We expect a similar
story when the transfer window reopens in January.”  Fifty-one percent of clubs surveyed said ticket sales fell
last season, and 54 percent said jersey and other merchandising
income declined. Thirty-seven percent of teams surveyed say they
increased sponsorship revenue last season, PKF said, adding
“only a small number” of Premier League clubs are attracting
major corporate sponsors.  Soccer fans “are being forced to view the latest replica
shirt as a luxury rather than a necessity” because of the
economic outlook, Birch said.  European ruling body UEFA is seeking to rein in team
spending with rules for continental competitions including the
 Champions League  from next year that stop clubs spending more
than they earn. Sixty-seven percent of Premier League clubs
surveyed plan to comply with the regulations, compared with 75
percent in the Scottish Premier League.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  