-- 
U.S. Rejected Solyndra Restructuring Bid Before Shutdown, Committee Finds

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-09-12T15:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/u-s-rejected-solyndra-restructuring-before-company-s-shutdown-memo-says.html
The Energy Department rejected
Solyndra LLC’s request to restructure a U.S. loan deal, a day
before the solar-panel maker shut down, according to a memo from
Republicans on the  House Energy and Commerce Committee .  The company, which received a $535 million federal loan
guarantee in 2009, was notified on Aug. 30 that restructuring
the loan six months after renegotiating the agreement “was not
feasible,” according to the memo, posted on the committee’s
website today before a Sept. 14 hearing. Solyndra said the next
day that it would cease operations and seek bankruptcy
protection.  Solyndra’s financial troubles prompted auditor
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC in March 2010 to question the
company’s ability to continue. Energy Department officials last
year said they would refuse further disbursement of U.S. funds
unless the company obtained additional capital, according to the
memo.  The company and investors Argonaut Venture Capital and
Madrone Capital Partners negotiated the agreement with the U.S.
starting in December, according to the memo.  The investors agreed in February to create a $75 million
credit facility with the option of another $75 million. Solyndra
was required to provide information about its  cash flow  to the
Energy Department. The agreement gave the department an
“observer” seat on Solyndra’s board.  Energy Department officials told committee aides last week
that Solyndra was preparing in July to restate some projected
financial statements “to reflect increasing market and pricing
pressures on its products, resulting in decreased revenues,”
according to the memo.  Solyndra’s investors sought a second restructuring of the
debt deal as a condition of providing the second $75 million.  The Energy Department “determined that a second
restructuring was not feasible, and informed the company and its
investors of this on August 30, 2011,” the memo states.
Solyndra filed for  bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  