-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Raw Materials Fall on European Debt

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-09-12T12:17:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-raw-materials-fall-on-european-debt.html
The following are the top stories
on metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Commodities Fall to Two-Week Low on Greek Default Speculation  Commodities fell to the lowest in more than two weeks,
extending losses for a third day, as a potential Greek debt
default raised concern that global economic growth is slowing
and may limit demand for raw materials.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  ANC Mulls Law to Supersede Mining Contracts, Godongwana Says (1)  South Africa ’s national needs should take precedence over
mining companies’ desire to export and a law to overrule mine
contracts may be considered, the head of the ruling party’s task
team formed to study a proposal to nationalize mines said.  Indonesia’s Stock Market Value to Lure Investors, Panin Says (3)  Indonesian stocks have become more attractive to overseas
investors after the world’s fourth-most populous nation overtook
Malaysia as Southeast Asia’s second-largest equities market by
value, PT Panin Sekuritas said.  Rio’s Murowa Eclipsed by Mbada as Zimbabwe’s Biggest Gem Miner  Rio Tinto Plc’s Murowa diamond mine has been eclipsed as
Zimbabwe’s largest gem producer by Mbada Mines (Pvt) Ltd. after
the closely held miner increased output, according to Robert
Mhlanga, its chairman.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Funds Boost Bullish Commodity Bets on Stimulus Plans Outlook (2)  Funds increased bullish bets on raw materials for a fourth
straight week, the longest series of gains this year, on
speculation that economic-stimulus programs will lift demand for
metals, grains and energy.  Copper Drops to One-Month Low as European Debt Crisis May Worsen  Copper fell to a one-month low in London on concern
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis may worsen, reducing demand.  MINING:  Impala’s  Zimbabwe  Unit Proposes New Plan to Sell Majority Stake  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd.’s Zimbabwean unit, in a
dispute with the government over a law to increase black
ownership of the nation’s mining industry, said it will submit a
new proposal to sell a majority stake in the company by
November.  Sasol Profit Advances 25% on Cost Controls, Oil-Price Gains (1)  Sasol Ltd., the largest producer of motor fuels from coal,
said fiscal full-year profit climbed 25 percent as oil prices
rose and cost savings increased.  BHP Billiton Coal Miners Resume Strike After Pay Talks Fail (1)  BHP Billiton Ltd.’s coking coal miners in  Australia  went
back on strike after failing to agree on pay and work conditions
with management, further disrupting operations at the largest
exporter of the steelmaking material.  Tin Shipments From  Indonesia  Fall for Second Month in August (1)  Refined-tin shipments from Indonesia, the largest exporter,
fell for a second month in August as the Muslim fasting month of
Ramadan slowed mining and prices of the metal declined.  BHP Billiton Coal Miners Resume Strike After Pay Talks Fail (1)  BHP Billiton Ltd.’s coking coal miners in Australia went
back on strike after failing to agree on pay and work conditions
with management, further disrupting operations at the largest
exporter of the steelmaking material.  Banpu Agrees to Acquire Hunnu Coal in A$477 Million Deal (1)  Banpu Plc, Thailand’s biggest coal producer, agreed to buy
the shares it doesn’t already own in Hunnu Coal Ltd., valuing
the Australian explorer at A$477 million ($495 million).  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Drops for Second Day as Europe Concern Sends Dollar Higher  Gold fell for a second day as concern about a potential
Greek default drove the dollar higher and some investors sold
the metal to cover losses in other markets on speculation the
European debt contagion is worsening.  Gold to ‘Grind’ Above $2,000 on Growth Stimulus, Barings Says  Gold will “grind” to a record above $2,000 an ounce as
countries seek to curb the value of their currencies and
stimulate economic growth by printing money, according to
Barings Asset Management Ltd.  Gold Glitters Less After IRS Takes Its Share: Chart of the Day  Investors considering gold rather than stocks may face a
larger tax bill than they expected, because the U.S. taxes long-
term capital gains on precious metals at 28 percent rather than
the maximum 15 percent for stocks.  Gold Bets Help Hedge Funds Weather August Market Rout (1)  Hedge funds run by Orix Investment Corp., Superfund and
Four Elements Capital Management Pte benefited from the surge in
gold last month, weathering the U.S. sovereign downgrade and
Europe’s deepening debt crisis.  AGRICULTURE:  Soybean Output in  India  to Rise 5% Next Year, Ruchi Says (1)  Soybean production in India,  Asia ’s biggest supplier of the
oilseed meal, may increase more than 5 percent next year as
adequate rainfall spurs planting, according to the nation’s
largest edible oil importer.  Corn May Rise on Speculation U.S. Will Lower Harvest Forecast  Corn may rise in  Chicago  on speculation the U.S. government
will today cut its production estimate for a second month,
curbing supplies from the biggest exporter of the grain.  Sugar Retreats Before Northern Hemisphere Harvest; Coffee Slides  Sugar fell to a two-month low on speculation of a surplus
when Northern Hemisphere harvesting starts next month. Coffee
and cocoa slid as most commodities dropped.  Russia Wheat-Export Surge Failing to Curb Drought-Fueled Rally  This year’s surge in Russian wheat exports, big enough to
feed  Japan  for more than two years, may fail to stop a rally as
global demand overwhelms supply curbed by droughts from the U.S.
to Australia.  Rubber Declines for Second Day as Debt Crisis May Hurt Demand  Rubber dropped for a second day as the sovereign-debt
crisis in Europe raised concern that demand for the commodity
used for tires may weaken.  Soybeans Gain on Speculation of Smaller Grain Harvest in U.S.  Soybean prices in Chicago advanced amid speculation
production estimates in the U.S., the biggest grower and
exporter, will be cut for a second straight month on dry, hot
weather.  Palm Oil Stockpiles, Output in  Malaysia  Drop During Ramadan (1)  Palm oil stockpiles in Malaysia, the second-biggest grower,
dropped for a second month in August as output declined during
the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan.  SHIPPING:  OPEC Sees Most  Libya  Oil Back in Six Months, Cuts Demand Outlook  Libya will be able to restore in six months most of its oil
production halted in fighting against Muammar Qaddafi and resume
full output in 18 months, according to the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries.  North Sea BFOE Crude Oil Loadings Unchanged in October (1)  Exports of the North Sea Brent, Forties, Oseberg and
Ekofisk crude blends, which make up the benchmark Dated Brent,
will be little changed in October, loading programs obtained by
Bloomberg News showed.  North Sea October Ekofisk Oil Loadings to Decline to 14 Cargoes  Exports of the North Sea Ekofisk crude for October will
drop to 14 cargoes, one less than September, a loading program
obtained by Bloomberg News showed.  Oil Tanker Sails to Libya as Nation Seeks to Resume Exports (2)  An oil tanker is sailing to the Libyan port of Mellitah, a
sign the nation may be resuming energy exports after months of
fighting that led to the ouster of Muammar Qaddafi, ship-
tracking data show.  Shipping Rally to ‘Lose Steam’ by Fourth Quarter, Barclays Says  A rally in iron-ore shipping costs is likely to “lose
steam” by the fourth quarter because of a surplus of vessels
seeking cargoes, Barclays Capital said.  ECONOMIES:  China  Hard Landing ‘Distant Scenario’ as Demand Sustained (2)  China’s record imports and a rebound in lending signaled
strength in demand that offers a bright spot in a global economy
contending with Europe’s debt crisis and weakening U.S. job
gains.  Germany  Readies Surrender in Fight to Save Greece: Euro Credit  Germany may be getting ready to give up on Greece, as
measures in the credit markets signal growing concern about the
smaller nation’s ability to repay investors.  Papandreou Sets New Taxes, Cuts for Greece to Skirt Default (2)  Prime Minister George Papandreou, vowing to avoid a default
and keep Greece in the euro, approved new measures to help plug
a budget gap as resistance builds at home and in Europe to
extending more aid to the European Union’s most-indebted nation.  Europe Stress Seen in Rates on Commercial Paper: Credit Markets  Societe Generale SA, BNP Paribas SA and Credit Agricole SA
are being quoted higher rates than their competitors in the
commercial paper market as the crisis in the euro zone spreads
beyond Greece, Portugal and Italy.  Europe Banks at Post-Lehman Lows Show Sovereign Risk Rising (1)  Investors are valuing European banks at levels not seen
since the depths of the credit crunch that followed the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. as concern over a Greek default
and debt contagion escalates.  Draghi’s Hands May Be Tied on ECB Stimulus After Stark Resigns  Mario Draghi may find it harder to keep the  European
Central Bank  in the vanguard of the battle against the euro
region’s debt crisis after  Juergen Stark  resigned in protest at
the bank’s bond purchases.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks Tumble as French Banks Drop on Greek Concern; Euro Falls  European stocks slumped as France’s three largest banks
dropped as much as 13 percent, U.S. equity futures declined and
the euro weakened amid speculation Germany is preparing for
default by Greece. Treasuries and bunds rose.  Euro Drops to 2001 Low Versus Yen on Concern Greece May Default  The euro dropped to its lowest level since 2001 against the
yen as speculation German Chancellor Angela Merkel is preparing
for a Greek default curbed demand for the 17-nation currency.  Russia’s Ruble Headed for 8-Month Low Versus Dollar as Oil Dips  The ruble headed for its lowest level against the dollar in
more than eight months as oil, Russia’s chief export, declined
for a third day.  U.S. Stock Futures Decline Amid Concern About Greek Debt Crisis  U.S. stock futures fell, indicating the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index will extend last week’s loss, as speculation Germany
is preparing for a Greek default spurred turmoil in global
financial markets.  Oil Drops a Third Day on European Debt Crisis; Gulf Storms Ease  Oil fell for a third day in  New York , the longest losing
streak in a month, as investors bet that Europe’s debt crisis
will limit economic growth. Production resumed in the Gulf of
Mexico as the threat of storms eased.  Libyan Opposition Pushes Toward Qaddafi Birthplace of Sirte (1)  Libyan opposition forces pushed toward Sirte, Muammar
Qaddafi’s birthplace and the last coastal town controlled by his
supporters. A son of the deposed leader fled to Niger.  Cameron Urges Fresh Start With Russia After Litvinenko Killing  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron, the first British leader
to visit Russia since the 2006 murder in  London  of dissident
Russian agent  Alexander Litvinenko , urged the two countries to
cooperate over shared economic interests.  Egypt Default Risk Jumps to Seven-Month High After Protests (1)  Egypt’s default risk climbed to the highest level in more
than seven months as the credit default swaps traded for the
first time since violent protests against the Israeli embassy in
Cairo.  Kuwait  Says Oil Output 2.9 Million Barrels/Day for Last 2 Weeks  Mohammad al- Busairy, Kuwait’s oil minister, said his
country has been producing 2.9 million barrels a day of crude a
day over the past two weeks. Al-Busairy was speaking to
reporters in Kuwait.  Dubai Stocks Fall Most in 3 Weeks on Greek Debt Concern, Oil  Persian Gulf shares fell, sending Dubai’s index down the
most in more than three weeks, on concern Greece may default on
its debt and as crude oil dropped.  Saudi Aramco Raises Most October Crude Prices: Persian Gulf Oil  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter, raised
official selling prices for all crude grades to customers in
Asia and Europe for October and cut all costs to buyers in the
U.S.  OPEC August Oil Output Rises as Saudi Arabia Boosts Production  OPEC crude oil production rose last month as Saudi Arabia,
the world’s largest crude exporter, and Nigeria pumped more,
according to the group’s secretariat.  Emerging Stocks Head for Two-Week Low on Greek Default Concerns  Emerging-market stocks fell, driving the benchmark index
toward its lowest level in more than two weeks, amid speculation
Germany is preparing for a default by Greece.  SPORTS:  Fernando Torres Faces More Time on Bench, Sun Says: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Wallabies Wing Breaks Thumb, Lawes Is Cited: World Cup Roundup  The following is a roundup of stories from the 2011 Rugby
World Cup in  New Zealand .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  