-- 
U.S. Company Credit Risk Gauge at Highest Level Since July 2009

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-09-12T21:38:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/u-s-company-credit-risk-gauge-at-highest-level-since-july-2009.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate
credit risk rose to the highest in more than two years amid
mounting investor concern that the European debt crisis was
worsening.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, rose 3.4 basis points to a mid-
price of 135 basis points, the highest level since July 2009, as
of 5:09 p.m. in  New York , according to index administrator
Markit Group Ltd. The index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves.  Traders pushed the index higher as Greek Prime Minister
George Papandreou struggles to reassure investors that his
country can avert default. Moody’s Investors Service may cut the
ratings of  France ’s three largest banks this week because of
their Greek holdings. The index pared its earlier rise after the
Financial Times reported that  China  was in talks about purchases
of Italian bonds.  “There are real worries about what’s happening in  Europe 
and whether we’ll get a disorderly default out of  Greece ,” Adam Richmond, a high-yield credit strategist at Morgan Stanley in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “Companies are still
doing well, balance sheets are still in solid shape, valuations
are cheap right now but none of that matters until we get some
clarity on these broader macro issues.”  Greece’s chance of default in the next five years has
soared to 98 percent in the credit swaps market, as Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  fails to reassure international
investors that his country can survive the euro-region crisis.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  