-- 
Money Funds’ Cuts to French Banks Could Force Sales

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-09-14T22:03:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/u-s-money-funds-lending-cuts-to-french-banks-seen-forcing-sale-of-assets.html
U.S. money-market fund managers
have cut their lending to French banks at a pace that may force
the banks to raise capital by selling assets, according to
William Prophet, a desk analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.  Prime money funds in the U.S. reduced their holdings in
certificates of deposits issued by French banks by about 40
percent in the three months through Aug. 11, Prophet wrote in a
Sept. 9 report, based on a review of seven of the 10 largest
funds eligible to purchase corporate debt. The proportion of the
remaining holdings maturing in less than a month increased to 56
percent on Aug. 11 from 17 percent on June 11.  “What’s happened very recently is simply unsustainable,”
Prophet wrote. “While a decent amount of funding is evidently
still available to the French banking system, it is all
migrating towards the very front end of the money-market curve,
and regulators no longer look the other way when this happens.”  U.S. funds are cutting their holdings in European banks on
concern the financial institutions may face funding problems as
the sovereign-debt crisis escalates. Moody’s Investors Service
may cut the ratings of  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  this week because of their Greek holdings,
two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Higher Rates  Alex Roever , an analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
published a similar note Sept. 9 reporting that U.S. money
funds’ combined holdings in French CDs and commercial paper
declined $47 billion in August. Banks in the Netherlands and the
U.K. lost $17 billion and $15 billion, respectively, in funding,
the New York-based bank said.  Vanguard Group Inc. eliminated holdings from French,
Spanish and Italian banks in its only prime fund by the end of
2010, said David Glocke, head of taxable money-market funds at
the  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based firm. The fund’s holdings
in all European banks was 10 percent as of Aug. 31, down from 15
percent at the end of July, he said in a telephone interview.  Legg Mason Group Inc., based in Baltimore, said on Aug. 12
its U.S. money-market funds won’t buy new debt from French banks
because it may be hard to sell if investors grow more bearish on
Europe.  Investors charged BNP Paribas, Societe Generale and  Credit
Agricole  an average of 6.7 basis points more to borrow three-
month commercial paper on Sept. 8 than the rate the lenders said
they could pay in the London interbank offered rate market,
according to two buyers who asked not to be identified because
the talks are private. As recently as July, the banks received
rates on commercial paper, or short-term debt, that were lower
than Libor.  Asset Sales  Deutsche Bank’s Prophet said U.S. money-fund holdings of
CDs from banks across  Europe  fell about 31 percent to $125
billion in the three months ended Aug. 11.  “If the amount of unsecured European bank funding being
provided by the U.S. money funds continues to shrink (both in
size and in duration), there will eventually be asset sales,”
he wrote.  Societe Generale said today it planned to free up 4 billion
euros ($5.44 billion) in capital through asset sales by 2013 to
reassure investors about its finances. The Paris-based bank
holds about 900 million euros in Greek bonds, Societe General
said today in a statement.  Federated Investors Inc. (FII) , the third-largest U.S. money-fund
manager with $224 billion at the end of July, according to Crane
Data LLC in Westborough,  Massachusetts , hasn’t changed its level
of holdings in banks in  France , or across Europe.  ‘Best Relative Value’  The Pittsburgh-based firm has 13 percent to 15 percent of
its prime funds in French banks, including all three banks cited
by Moody’s for possible downgrade, said  Deborah Cunningham ,
Federated’s head of money funds.  A Greek default would be an “earnings event” for the
French banks, and not threaten their ability to repay short-term
investors, she said.  The threatened downgrade wouldn’t affect short-term
ratings, according a June 15 statement from Moody’s.  “We’re comfortable that with the information disclosed to
us, they continue to represent the best relative value available
to us right now,” Cunningham said in a telephone interview.  U.S. money funds increased their holdings of European debt
from 38 percent of assets in the second half of 2006 to more
than half in June, according to  Fitch Ratings . The increase was
driven by the banks’ demand for dollar-based holdings and the
decreased supply of U.S. bank-issued debt, the London-based
company said.  The analysis was produced by the bank’s sales and trading
department and not its research department, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  