-- 
Treasury 10-Year Yields Climb From Record Low as Europe Debt Concern Ease

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-09-12T21:10:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/u-s-sells-three-year-notes-at-record-low-on-concerns-about-greek-default.html
Treasury 10-year note yields rose
from a record low on speculation  China  may seek to buy more
European bonds, easing the haven appeal of  U.S. government debt 
from the Europe’s widening sovereign-debt crisis.  The U.S. government sold $32 billion of three-year
securities at a record low yield in the first of three note and
bond offerings this week totaling $66 billion.  Bill Gross , who
runs the world’s biggest bond mutual fund at Pacific Investment
Management Co., increased his holdings of Treasuries to the
highest since December 2010. U.S. stocks rose.  “There’s a story that China is contemplating buying
Italian sovereign debt,” said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury
trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. “It
places a little bit of hope in the market that someone sees some
value out there. Obviously it’s better than  Europe  falling
apart, which is what we hear every night.”  Yields on 10-year notes gained three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.95 percent at 5:01 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent
securities maturing in August 2021 fell 1/4, or $2.50 per $1,000
face amount, to 101 19/32. The yields earlier touched 1.8770
percent, the lowest level on record in Federal Reserve data
beginning in 1953.  The current three-year note yields increased four basis
points to 0.33 percent. The yields on 30-year bonds were little
changed at 3.25 percent.  Yield Versus Libor  The three-year note auction yield of 0.334 percent was
lower than the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, for
three-month loans in dollars, at 0.343 percent.  “That’s an indication of the impact that Fed policy is
having on the curve,” said James Collins, an interest-rate
strategist in the futures group in  Chicago  at Citigroup Inc.,
one of the 20 primary dealers obliged to participate in
auctions. “Libor has been inching higher for several weeks now.
Until the crisis mode eases in Europe, we’ll probably see it in
the mid-0.30s.”  The last time the three-year yield fell below the three-
month Libor rate was in the aftermath of the 2008 bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The three-month Libor rate has been below the two-year
yield since Aug. 8, the day before the Fed said it would hold
its overnight lending rate for loans between banks at zero to
0.25 percent through at least mid-2013.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes increased after the
Financial Times reported that the Italian government is holding
discussions with Chinese investors on selling a “significant”
amount of bonds.  China and  Italy   China Investment Corp. Chairman  Lou Jiwei  was in  Rome  last
week for discussions with Italian Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  and Italy’s Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, a government
entity that has established an Italian Strategic Fund open to
foreign investors, the FT said, citing unidentified Italian
officials.  Italian officials have held talks with Chinese counterparts
about potential investments in the euro region’s third-largest
economy, an Italian government official said.  The purchase of Italian bonds by China was not the focus of
the talks, which took place in the past few weeks, the official
said on condition of anonymity. A spokesman for Tremonti
declined to comment.  Gain in Stocks  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased for the first
time in three days, rising 0.7 percent. Crude oil for October
delivery rose 1.8 percent to $88.77 a barrel.  Treasuries rose earlier today as Lars Feld, an economic
adviser to  Germany ’s  Chancellor Angela Merkel , said decisions
taken in July by European leaders “won’t suffice” to save
 Greece  from missing a payment on its debt.  A haircut in the order of 50 percent will be necessary on
Greek debt, and it’s better to go ahead “rather now than
later,” Feld said today in an interview with Maryam Nemazee on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.”  Germany’s government is discussing how to strengthen the
nation’s banks in case Greece fails to meet the budget-cutting
terms of its aid package and is unable to get a bailout-loan
payment, officials said Sept. 9.  “There’s this ever-present flight-to-quality bid out
there,” said  David Coard , head of fixed-income trading in  New
York  at Williams Capital Group, a brokerage for institutional
investors. “We’ve moved powerfully.”  Merkel and European Commission President  Jose Barroso 
agreed on the “paramount” importance of the euro, the German
government said after the two met in Berlin today.  Bund Spread  Treasuries have underperformed bunds, with the extra yield
investors get to hold 10-year U.S. notes instead of their German
counterparts increasing to 19 basis points, the widest spread
since Aug. 5.  At today’s government three-year auction, the yield of
0.334 percent was the lowest on record for the maturity,
compared with the average forecast of 0.335 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of eight primary dealers.  “It’s a good auction,” said  Ray Remy , head of fixed
income in New York at Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc., a
primary dealer. “It seems like there’s another shoe that drops
with Europe every day, so it’s a constant concern in the U.S.
marketplace.”  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 3.15,
compared with an average of 3.18 for the past 10 sales of three-
year notes.  Indirect Bidders  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 35.7 percent of the notes, compared
with 47.9 percent at the August sale of the notes and an average
of 35.8 percent for the past 10 offerings.  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 10.6 percent of
the securities, compared with an average of 13.2 percent for the
past 10 auctions.  The Treasury is scheduled to sell $21 billion in 10-year
debt tomorrow and $13 billion of 30-year bonds on Sept. 14. The
entire amount raised this week is new cash, with none of the
proceeds dedicated to redeeming maturing securities, according
to the Treasury Department.  Pimco’s $245 billion Total Return Fund raised its holdings
of government and Treasury debt to 16 percent last month from 10
percent in July, according to data posted on the  Newport Beach ,
California-based company’s website today. Mortgage holdings
climbed to 32 percent from 25 percent.  The seven-day relative strength index for the 10-year note
yield dropped below 30 on Sept. 9 for the first time since Aug.
19. A reading less than that level indicates a security may be
poised for a change in direction. The index was at 35.08 today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  