-- 
UBS’s McGill Honors Fellow New York Jets Fan Who Perished on Sept. 11

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-09-12T05:38:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/ubs-s-mcgill-honors-fellow-new-york-jets-fan-who-perished-on-sept-11.html
Joseph McGill, a  New York  Jets
season-ticket holder since 1988, attends every home game with a
sign taped over his jersey to honor his friend Alfonse
Niedermeyer, a Port Authority police officer who died in the
Sept. 11, 2001, attack on New York.  Last night, on the 10th anniversary of the tragedy that
killed almost 3,000 people, McGill and a group of friends stood
in a parking lot outside MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New
Jersey, 15 minutes before kickoff. The group planned to watch
the pre-game 9/11 commemoration on television by themselves
outside, before moving into the stadium for the National
Football League game between the Jets and  Dallas Cowboys .  “Being a Jets fan was just a part of Al’s life, it was a
part of us,” McGill, who is the chief compliance office at UBS
Global Asset Management Inc., said in an interview. “Honestly,
I think about him every day, but it makes it worse coming
here.”  The Jets opened their 2011 season with a 27-24 comeback
victory over the Cowboys 10 years after the deadliest act of
terrorism ever in the U.S. The NFL held memorials at all of its
games for those who died in the attacks in New York, the
Pentagon in  Virginia  and in  Pennsylvania , where passengers re-
took a plane that terrorists had hijacked.  McGill, who wore a PAPD hat with Niedermeyer’s 1537 badge
number on it to the game, met Niedermeyer in 1981 and became a
Jets fan. He bought season tickets in 1988, and following
Neidermeyer’s death, purchased two more seats in the same
section.  ‘Carry on the Legacy’  “I bought two extra seats for every game for my son and
his son, because it’s something we always talked about doing,”
McGill said. “Hopefully they can carry on the legacy.”  McGill, 49, said he was working in the compliance
department at JP MorganChase & Co.’s midtown Manhattan offices
when planes hit the World Trade Center in New York.  Jets cornerback  Darrelle Revis  was in class at Aliquippa
High School in Pennsylvania when he heard about the Sept. 11
attacks; wide receiver Derrick Mason, who was playing for the
Tennessee Titans, was driving back from a meeting with his
contractor. Quarterback  Mark Sanchez , a freshman at Santa
Margarita High School in  California , said he was on his way to
school with his father when they heard the news.  Before last night’s game started a live version of “Taps”
was streamed through the stadium and players joined first
responders in holding a field-sized American flag. At halftime,
the stadium lights dimmed and families of victims held lights in
the footprint of the Twin Towers as John Ondrasik of Five for
Fighting sang “Superman,” an anthem for the city following the
attacks.  Around the League  “It is always an emotional and humbling experience to play
in front of people who lost loved ones on 9/11,” Ondrasik, who
performed at the Concert For New York City benefit on Oct. 20,
2001, and last Friday at  Ground Zero , said in an interview.
“There is nowhere I would rather be.”  The Baltimore Ravens invited 150 volunteers from the
military, Pentagon, National Guard and first responders from
more than 75 cities across the state of  Maryland  to take part in
their pre-game ceremonies.  Colin Powell , U.S. secretary of state
during the attacks, participated in the coin toss before the
 Washington Redskins  hosted the  New York Giants .  The NFL postponed its Week 2 games in 2001 after the attack,
which led to the establishment of a $10 million disaster relief
fund. Games resumed the following week, and on Oct. 1, the Jets
hosted the  San Francisco 49ers  in their first home game after
the attack. McGill, who said he almost gave up his tickets after
Niedermeyer’s death, went to the game as a personal tribute to
his friend.  Emotional Games  “It was difficult, but we did it for him,” said McGill,
who last saw Niedermeyer at the Jets’ Sept. 9, 2001 loss to the
 Indianapolis Colts . “We know that if it were one of us, he
would have done the same.”  McGill said last night’s season-opener, where the Jets
rallied from a 24-10 deficit in the fourth quarter, was the most
emotional football experience he’s had since attending that
first Jets game following Niedermeyer’s death. He said he’d like
to think the comeback was “divine intervention.”  “I looked up to the sky to make sure Al was watching,”
McGill said in an interview after the game. “But I always do
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in East Rutherford,  New Jersey  at +1-
   enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  