-- 
Hugh Hefner Dines Late, Likes Chops, Says Playboy Mansion Chef

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-09-12T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/hugh-hefner-dines-late-likes-chops-says-playboy-mansion-chef-interview.html
William S. Bloxsom-Carter examines
a batch of cakes that have been baked overnight, checks out the
cold store and squeezes past an assistant to taste a stock.  While it sounds like the everyday routine of a chef, that
title doesn’t quite capture Carter’s role. He’s the director of
food and beverage at the Playboy Mansion in Los Angeles and he
has been catering for  Hugh Hefner  and his parties for more than
25 years, serving about 100,000 guests annually.  “It really annoys me when people say I have a cushy job,”
says Carter, 55, who is so affable it’s hard to imagine him
getting more then slightly irritated. “They think the girls are
in lingerie and six-inch heels standing by my desk and waiting
for my next command.”  It’s an image, yet not one that accords with life in the
mansion, at 10236 Charing Cross Road,  Beverly Hills . Entry is by
invitation and you gain admittance by speaking into a rock (with
hidden microphone) at the main gate.  The mansion, with its private zoo, pool, games room and
manicured lawns, is tranquil on a summer’s morning. At the back,
workers are preparing a giant marquee for an event with hundreds
of guests. Peacocks strut past.  It’s easy to forget the tales of wild parties --  Charlie Sheen  was photographed there last year -- and the book by a
 former resident complaining  about life in the mansion. If Carter
knows one or two secrets, he’s not telling.  Late Dinner  “Mr. Hefner’s hours are a little different,” Carter says
diplomatically. “We run a 24-hour operation here, seven days a
week. Hef starts his day with breakfast around 10:30, 11:30 in
the morning. He eats very healthy. He has lunch about 5:30 and
he has his dinner ordered up about 10:30 at night.  “He enjoys lamb chops, and he has half a grapefruit every
day,” says Carter. “He likes fried chicken with mashed
potatoes, which is his mother’s recipe. He’s a Midwestern
gentleman, so he enjoys those kinds of foods. He has two piles
of mashed potatoes with a poached egg placed in each one. Pretty
wild stuff but it’s OK.”  (Hefner, 85, founder and chief creative officer of Playboy
Enterprises Inc., didn’t emerge from his wing of the mansion
during my morning visit.)  The main dining room, facing out onto the front lawn, is
dark and elegant, with a David Hockney painting and three 15th-
century tapestries. It can seat as many as 26 people. Judy Joo -
- a former  Morgan Stanley (MS)  trader who is now executive chef at
the new Playboy Club in  London  -- came here to meet with Carter,
who also prepares meals for Playboy executives and models.  Healthy Playmates  “We do cook for the Playmates,” he says. “We want them
to feel relaxed and at home, as if they were in their own
kitchen. That’s very important to Mr. Hefner. We try to make
them healthy. It doesn’t always work out. They want the
cheesecake with the strawberries on top but it’s a lot of fun
and it’s a wonderful time for me and my staff.”  Carter was born when his father was in the Army, stationed
at  Fort Dix , near Trenton,  New Jersey . He has a business degree
in air commerce from the Florida Institute of Technology and
learned to cook under Gerard Gasparini at the  Wee Burn Country
Club  in Darien,  Connecticut . He got the Playboy job after
answering an advertisement to join a West Coast corporation.  He has since developed an internship program, promotes
Californian wines and food on radio shows and cooks at an annual
dinner to raise money for scholarships. In the mansion, he says
he runs a classical French kitchen. Wednesday is card night for
Hefner and his friends, which involves a turkey dinner with
mashed potatoes, corn on the cob, peas and gravy.  Does he enjoy his job? Carter smiles.  “I like to say that Hef has a really big sandbox and he
lets me play in it,” he says.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the  World’s 50 Best Restaurants  awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in  Los Angeles  at  rvines@bloomberg.net 
or Richardvines on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 