-- 
Hungary Franc Fix May Backfire on Economy, Borrowers, CIB Says

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-09-12T08:57:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/hungary-franc-fix-may-backfire-on-economy-borrowers-cib-says.html
Hungary’s growth and currency may
suffer and more borrowers could be hurt than helped by adopting
a proposal to allow repayment of foreign-currency mortgages
below market rates at the banks’ cost, CIB Bank Zrt. said.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  will detail a Cabinet decision
on his ruling party’s proposal to parliament at 1 p.m. today in
Budapest. OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, and
Foldhitel es Jelzalogbank Nyrt. were suspended from trading on
the city’s stock exchange.  Fidesz lawmakers proposed on Sept. 9 to make lenders bear
the cost of early repayment of foreign-currency loans at fixed
rates as much as 20 percent below market rates. Two-thirds of
Hungarian mortgages are denominated in Swiss francs and defaults
have been rising as a strengthening franc sent monthly
installments soaring.  “Should the plan be adopted in its current form, it would
have a negative effect on financial stability, the banking
system and investors’ risk assessment,”  Gyorgy Barta  and Sandor Jobbagy of CIB, a unit of  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , said in an e-mail
today. “It would only provide a solution to a few borrowers and
could even cause a deterioration in the situation of non-
performing borrowers.”  OTP plunged 11 percent and FHB dropped 5.5 percent on Sept.
9 after the ruling party proposed fixing exchange rates at 180
forint per Swiss franc and 250 forint per euro for early loan
repayments.  Forint, CDS  The forint today weakened for a third day, depreciating 0.7
percent to 283.4 per euro and declining 1 percent against the
Swiss franc to 234.2 by 10:12 a.m. in Budapest. Credit-default
swaps used to protect Hungarian government debt against non-
payment for five years surged to 461 basis points from 416 basis
points on Sept. 8, the highest since April 2009, according to
data from provider CMA.  The franc fix plan may help as many as 300,000 of the 1.5
million borrowers with foreign-currency loans, who either have
enough savings or can take out a forint loan to repay their
debt, Fidesz parliamentary leader Janos Lazar said on Sept. 9.  The rest may be worse off because of the weakening of the
forint and bank losses, which may further restrain lending and
undermine already slowing economic growth, the CIB economists
said. The government cut its growth forecast to 2 percent this
year and 2012 from 3.1 percent and 3 percent, respectively.  ‘Damaging Effect’  “If all borrowers took advantage of the opportunity, a
theoretical possibility, the banking system would face a loss of
1.2 trillion forint ($5.8 billion), half of its equity
capital,” CIB said. “Although foreign owners could step in,
lending would surely remain frozen and affect growth negatively.
Additionally, the move could have a damaging effect on the
forint, causing problems for those who do not wish to repay in
advance.”  The ruling party’s proposal may have “severe” economic
consequences and endangers financial system stability, the
Hungarian Banking Association said in an e-mail on Sept. 9.  Hungary  must help foreign-currency mortgage holders in a
way that doesn’t undermine the banking system, Lajos Kosa, vice-
president of the ruling Fidesz party told HirTv yesterday.  The Hungarian government agreed with lenders in May to
offer household borrowers who aren’t late with repayments the
chance to fix a franc exchange rate of 180 forint for their
installments until the end of 2014. The difference between the
fixed-rate payments and those that would have resulted under
actual exchange rates will be recorded in separate forint
accounts to be settled from 2015.  ‘Reduce External Debt’  That plan only offered a “temporary solution” and the
demand for a “permanent solution beyond a temporary one is
justified,” Orban said on Sept. 2.  “The switch from foreign to domestic currency loans would
markedly reduce the country’s external debt and improve the
financial situation of households,” strategists at BNP Paribas
SA led by Bartosz Pawlowski in  London  wrote in a research report
today. “These developments are negative for the banking system,
but the forint is likely to recover slightly.”  OTP competes mostly with units of international banks,
including  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and
 Bayerische Landesbank , and in the mortgage market with FHB.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net 
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  