-- 
Unions Pledge Direct Action to Halt Changes to U.K. Labor Laws

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-09-12T12:41:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/unions-pledge-direct-action-to-halt-changes-to-u-k-labor-laws.html
The leaders of two of the U.K.’s
biggest labor unions said they’ll use direct action and civil
disobedience to stop any attempt by the government to curb
workers’ right to strike.  Len McCluskey, the general secretary of Unite, Britain’s
biggest trade union with 1.5 million members, and Paul Kenny,
who heads the 601,000-member GMB union, pledged to fight calls
by Conservative lawmakers to change the law, as unions prepare
coordinated strikes against public-sector budget cuts.  “We will give them the biggest campaign of civil
disobedience their tiny little minds can ever imagine,” Kenny
told delegates at the  Trades Union Congress ’s annual conference
in London today. “Bad laws have to be broken,” he said. “If
going to prison is the price for standing up to bad laws, then
so be it.”  As many as 10 unions are planning to strike in November to
oppose curbs on public-sector pensions following a strike in
June that closed 48 percent of schools in England and  Wales ,
delayed emergency calls to police and disrupted welfare
services. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in January he was
“looking at the arguments” for new legislation “because I
don’t want to see a wave of irresponsible strikes.”  London Mayor  Boris Johnson  has proposed a change in the law
so that any strike must have the support of more than 50 percent
of union members rather than half of those who choose to vote,
as at present.  ‘Fighting Traditions’  McCluskey said unions should use the tactics of student
movements, whose protests against an increase in tuition fees
last year descended into violence, and the  U.K. Uncut  direct-
action group. He said unions will confront any planned strike
curbs “in our best fighting traditions.”  “The message to the government is this: Push us outside of
the wall and you will be responsible for the consequences,”
McCluskey told delegates. “We will bring  Wisconsin  to
Westminster.”  In Wisconsin, protesters occupied the state capitol
building in Madison and staged protests in the streets earlier
this year against a proposal by Governor  Scott Walker  to curb
collective bargaining for government employees. Fourteen
Wisconsin Senate Democrats left the state Feb. 17 and spent more
than three weeks in  Illinois  in an attempt to block the law by
denying the chamber a quorum.  Earlier today,  Brendan Barber , the general secretary of the
TUC, Britain’s umbrella labor movement with 6.2 million members,
said unions should coordinate action to oppose the government’s
economic strategy.  ‘Mass Movement’  Barber, who proposed a levy on all member unions to raise 2
million pounds ($3.2 million) over two years for a campaign
against spending cuts and in favor of investment in growth,
called for a “mass movement for change” in a speech to the
conference.  “This is a pledge to work with every ally we can muster as
we fight our greatest battle in living memory,” Barber told
delegates. “Whether it’s fighting cuts to pensions, fighting
NHS reforms, or fighting inequality, one thing’s for sure: we
are at our best when we are united.”  Barber also used his speech to attack economists who are
now talking of a double-dip recession when a year ago they were
telling union leaders that were wrong to warn of one.  “The government has succeeded in making the deficit the
key problem, so we have to shift the terms of the debate,”
Barber said. “We say that you can’t cut the deficit by
depressing the economy, it’s only through jobs and growth that
we can heal the public finances. Of course the deficit is
important, but it is just one symptom of what’s wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  