-- 
Turkey Yields Rise as Economy Unexpectedly Grew in 2nd Quarter

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-09-12T08:29:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/turkey-yields-rise-as-economy-unexpectedly-grew-in-2nd-quarter.html
Turkish yields rose after the
economy unexpectedly grew on a quarterly basis in the three
months to June, reducing expectations of further rate cuts by
the central bank.  Yields on benchmark two-year bonds increased 7 basis points
to 7.99 percent at 11:02 a.m. in Istanbul, the highest level in
two weeks. The lira fell 0.3 percent to 1.7957 per dollar,
paring earlier losses.  “This figure is notably higher than the central bank
presumed,” Nilufer Sezgin, chief economist at Ekspres Invest in
Istanbul, said in an e-mailed report to clients. “The bank is
expected to be more cautious in making any rate cuts going
forward.”  The rate of economic growth in  Turkey  has spurred concern
about overheating as the current-account deficit grew to record
levels. The lira has declined 14 percent this year, the worst
performer among 31 major currencies, on concern the current
account deficit, widened by demand for imports, might
destabilize the economy.  The economy expanded 1.3 percent on an adjusted quarterly
basis in the second quarter of the year. Growth was expected to
be flat, according to the median estimate of six economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Annual economic growth was 8.8 percent
compared with a Bloomberg forecast of 6.3 percent.  Turkey’s economy grew 11.6 percent on an annual basis in
the first quarter, the statistics agency said, revising the
figure from a previous 11 percent. That was the fastest rate in
the Group of 20 major world economies.  The central bank has cut  interest rates  twice this year,
unexpectedly lowering the rate by 25 basis points to a record
low of 5.75 percent on Aug. 4, expressing concern that a global
slowdown will hurt Turkey’s economy. Bond yields have fallen 66
basis points since the last cut. To temper domestic loan growth
that’s driving the expansion in the current account deficit, the
bank has increased the reserve requirements of the country’s
banks.  The current account deficit widened to $5.3 billion in July
from $3.6 billion in the same month of last year, the central
bank in Ankara said on its website today. The deficit narrowed
from $7.7 billion in June, as tourism revenue increased in the
month.  The current-account gap is expected to narrow in the second
half of the year, governor Erdem Basci said in an interview on
Aug. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  