-- 
Turkish Economy Unexpectedy Grew in 2nd Quarter, Easing Rate Cut Pressure

-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-09-12T15:14:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/turkish-economy-unexpectedy-grew-1-3-on-quarterly-basis-yields-increase.html
Turkey ’s economy unexpectedly
expanded in the second quarter from the previous three months,
weakening the case for further rate cuts by the central bank.  The economy expanded 1.3 percent on a seasonally adjusted
basis from the first quarter, the statistics agency in Ankara
said today. Output was expected to be unchanged, according to
the median estimate of six economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Annual growth was 8.8 percent, higher than the 6.3 percent
median forecast.  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci surprised markets by
cutting the benchmark  interest rate  to a record low of 5.75
percent last month, betting that the need to protect the economy
from the risk of recession in  Europe , Turkey’s main trade
partner, outweighs the threat of a record current account gap
run up during the boom.  “The Turkish economy is still growing at a robust pace,
with vulnerabilities remaining on the external financing side,
and with fiscal policy hardy proving supportive to the central
bank in terms of demand management,” Tim Ash, chief economist
for emerging markets at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in London,
said in an e-mailed report to clients today. There is now
“overwhelming evidence” that the central bank shouldn’t cut
rates further in the short term, he said.  The lira gained 0.1 percent to 1.7896 per dollar at 6:12
p.m., cutting this year’s decline of 14 percent, the most among
major emerging market currencies. The benchmark  stock index 
pared earlier declines after the data, falling 0.5 percent.
Yields on two-year benchmark debt added 1 basis point to 7.93
percent after rising as much as 9 basis points earlier.  Current Account  The statistics agency also revised first-quarter growth to
1.7 percent from 1.4 percent, and annual growth in the same
period to 11.7 percent from 11 percent.  Turkey’s current account deficit widened to $5.3 billion in
July from $3.6 billion a year earlier, the central bank said
today, taking the 12-month gap to a record $74.6 billion, or
about 9.5 percent of economic output.  Basci said last month he expects a “very rapid”
improvement in the current account balance in the second half of
the year.  Ahmet Akarli, an economist at Goldman Sachs & Co. in
 London , said the figures published today show signs that the
economy is shifting away from dependence on domestic demand,
with exports contributing more.  ‘Sustained Lira Weakness’  “The slowdown/rebalancing process will likely accelerate
in the coming quarters, thanks to tighter domestic lending
conditions, increased global uncertainty and sustained lira
weakness,” he said in an e-mailed report to clients today.  The higher-than-expected growth data prompted JPMorgan
Chase & Co. to increase its economic growth forecast for this
year to an annual 6.3 percent from 5.6 percent. Still, economist
 Yarkin Cebeci  said data since the end of the second quarter show
a “significant slowdown.”  HSBC’s Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 48.8 last month,
the lowest since April 2009, from 52.3 in July. A figure below
50 indicates a contraction.  Consumer confidence  slid to 90.4 in
the CNBC-e monthly index for August, from 100.4 in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Istanbul at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 