-- 
Virginia as Biggest Slaveholder Still Sees Civil War Divisively

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-09-12T16:45:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/virginia-as-biggest-slaveholder-still-sees-civil-war-divisively.html
Edward L. Ayers knew  Virginia  was
changing when more than 2,000 people arrived on a weekday at the
 University of Richmond ’s basketball arena to hear a new
perspective on the cause of the Civil War.  One hundred and fifty years after the start of the nation’s
bloodiest war, the audience sat rapt as a professor displayed a
screen image of a single page in a slaveowner’s account book
that showed slavery was today’s equivalent of a $100 million-a-
year business.  “Nobody was outraged that we were admitting this,” said
Ayers, although some in the audience told him they never
realized the extent to which money motivated the war.  The lecture was part of a two-year effort that Ayers, the
university’s president, has co-led to get Richmond -- once the
center of the nation’s slave trade -- to confront its difficult
history.  “We’re never really going to come to terms with having
been the largest slave-holding state in the nation -- that’s
never going to be behind us -- but Virginia’s beginning to come
to terms with really a complex history,” Ayers said in an
interview.  President  Barack Obama  navigated those crosscurrents in
2008 to win the state, and his trip to Ayers’s Richmond campus
on Sept. 9 to pitch his jobs plan illustrates his desire to keep
Virginia in play in the 2012 presidential campaign.  Changed Perspective  The president’s success will depend largely on his ability
to take advantage of the changed perspective he tapped into
three years ago and Ayers saw earlier this year. It is being
driven in part by demographic shifts and by generational changes
that have distanced voters from a war in which 620,000 Americans
were killed.  The progress isn’t universal and change has been slow to
take hold in pockets that cling to tradition, leaving the state
a bundle of contradictions culturally and politically.  The technology boom of the 1990s, an infusion of government
workers, and an influx of Hispanics and Asians as well as
younger people has altered the fabric of a state that was
dominated by a mix of older, white social and religious
conservatives and a large bloc of blacks, who comprise 19
percent of the population.  In rural Lexington, where Commander in Chief of the
Confederate Armies Robert E. Lee and General Thomas
“Stonewall” Jackson are buried, the Sons of Confederate
Veterans last week protested a city ordinance banning the flying
of the Confederate Flag on some streets.  Confederate Proclamation  Newly-elected Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell, a
Republican, prompted outcries last year for issuing a
Confederate History Month proclamation that omitted mention of
slavery; within days, he amended his statement.  Divided loyalties have shaped Virginians since the Civil
War began. On this day 150 years ago, Lee, the U.S. colonel who
arrested abolitionist John Brown before becoming a confederate
general because of greater allegiance to his home state,
suffered a defeat at the battle of Cheat Mountain in what two
years later became  West Virginia .  The belated and incomplete acceptance of slavery as the
cause of the Civil War reflects Virginia’s transforming
political landscape from a low-tax, religiously-oriented
conservative bastion to a swing state in which Republicans and
Democrats are moving into more defined partisan camps.  Bipartisan History  Virginia for decades was governed by conservative Democrats
and moderate Republicans, whose ideologies weren’t dramatically
different. Since 1974, the state has had five Republican
governors and five Democratic governors. In the  U.S. Senate ,
Democrat Charles S. Robb and Republican John Warner served side-
by-side representing Virginia for more than a decade.  While voters elected candidates from both parties at the
state level, it was a reliable Republican state when it came to
presidential campaigns. Before Obama’s 2008 race, Virginia last
backed a Democratic candidate in 1964, when it supported
President  Lyndon B. Johnson ’s landslide victory.  The state’s  Republican Party  began shifting to a more
social conservative stance in the 1980s when the late Reverend
Jerry Falwell, founder of Liberty University, a Christian
institution in Lynchburg, took a leadership role in the Moral
Majority, an evangelical political organization that opposed
abortion rights. The migration continued in the 1990s with the
founding of the Christian Coalition by Pat Robertson, a
television evangelist based in  Virginia Beach  and founder of
Regent University, another faith-based school.  Candidate Visits  Those changes have helped to make Virginia an obligatory
stop for Republican presidential candidates courting evangelical
voters. Texas Governor  Rick Perry , the Republican leading in
primary polls, is scheduled to speak at Liberty University Sept.
14; Minnesota Representative  Michele Bachmann , one of his
rivals, is to appear on Sept. 28.  Democratic voters were growing and shifting as well.  Steve Jarding, a Democratic strategist who headed now-
Senator Mark Warner’s successful 2001 gubernatorial race as well
as Democrat  Jim Webb ’s election to the U.S. Senate in 2006, said
Virginia’s electorate transformed between the two campaigns. A
decade ago, electoral and demographic data led Jarding to
conclude Warner had to draw support from Republicans and
independents in order to win the governor’s race.  By 2006, Jarding said, “there had been a tremendous
movement in the dynamics toward the Democrats. The base was
dramatically stronger,” and he concluded -- correctly, it
turned out -- that a strong showing in Northern Virginia could
hand Webb a victory.  First Black Governor  The state that elected the nation’s first black governor,
Doug Wilder, in 1989, helped make Obama the first black
president in 2008. The night before he won the presidency, Obama
drew 90,000 supporters to a Northern Virginia rally in  Manassas ,
the site of the first major battle in the Civil War.  Next year will be a test of whether the old Virginia or the
new Virginia dominates the conflicted state. Obama won Virginia
in 2008 by boosting turnout among blacks and young people,
racking up solid victories in Northern Virginia, and in and
around urban centers including Richmond and Hampton Roads.  The following year, the outcome was different. Republican
McDonnell defeated Democrat Creigh Deeds in a gubernatorial
election that saw lower turnout among new voters and African-
Americans, and in which he carried many of the suburban and
exurban areas that Obama had won 12 months earlier.  Normal Turnout  “The ‘09 electorate was the traditional one’’ in Virginia,
said Quentin Kidd, a Christopher Newport University political
scientist. ‘‘It’s older than it was in ‘08, it’s whiter than it
was in ‘08, and it’s more economically established.’’ Obama must
‘‘overcome the reversion to the norm,’’ he added.  Brandyn Keating, heading up Obama’s Virginia campaign, said
the key objective is to bring back the 2008 electorate and
expand it. ‘‘That means engaging all sorts of people across the
Commonwealth,’’ she said. ‘‘It’s a goal of ours to continue to
do that, and we have to do that.’’  Republicans are working to deny Obama that chance. Phil
Cox, who engineered McDonnell’s 2009 victory, said  turnout  among
younger people, blacks and Democrats’ core supporters in general
is likely to be lower because of disappointment in the
president’s performance, leaving the two parties to compete for
the swing suburbs and exurbs Obama dominated in 2008.  ‘‘The Democrats can try to recreate that coalition, but I
don’t think they’re going to have the ability to do that, and I
do think it will revert back to a traditional turnout model,”
Cox said.  Competing for Manassas  That competition is unfolding in places like  Manassas  --the
site of Obama’s pre-election rally -- where Obama beat
Republican presidential nominee  John McCain , the Arizona
senator, 55 percent to 44 percent in 2008. McDonnell won, 62
percent to Deeds’s 38 percent, the next year.  In neighboring Fairfax County -- where a strip mall
features a grocery store, two old-fashioned barber shops flying
American flags, a check-cashing storefront, and Castillos, a
Mexican and Salvadoran restaurant -- Democrats’ gains have been
more lasting. Obama beat McCain 60 percent to 39 percent there;
the following year, McDonnell eked out a victory of 51 percent
to Deeds’s 49 percent.  “There’s a moving down of the northeast megalopolis to
Northern Virginia, and then an urbanization of the suburbs
taking place in the lower part of the state,” in such cities as
Richmond and Hampton Roads, said  William Frey  of the  Brookings
Institution .  Rural Decline  “Your strictly rural part of Virginia or small-town
Virginia is just shrinking, from a demographic standpoint,
although people still have those strong-held views,” Frey said,
and “that make it hard for either party to dominate.”  A little ways south from the diverse exurbs of Northern
Virginia, in Stafford County, sits a shed emblazoned with a
Confederate flag. To some, it represents the states’ rights
ideals to which John Napier, a Republican from Short Pump, said
he wishes the nation would return. “That’s what the Civil War
was about -- states’ rights,” said Napier, a 65-year-old
salesman.  “Slavery was an abomination -- it was a terrible, terrible
thing, but the war was about the states’ right to determine
their own destiny, and that’s still being talked about” in
today’s debates over health care and federal spending, Napier
said.  Civil War Cause  Ayers, who was named the 2003 national Professor of the
Year at doctoral and research universities by the Carnegie
Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching and the Council for
Advancement and Support of Education in  Washington , reminds
Virginians that scholars today are virtually unanimous in
declaring slavery as the cause of the Civil War.  In downtown Richmond, where a statue of the black tennis
star Arthur Ashe looms above Monument Avenue along with those of
Confederate generals, social worker Lee Green said it’s the
legacy of slavery that’s the more powerful force shaping
opinions in his state.  “We have this history and nobody wants to really expose it
or confront it,” said Green, a black Obama supporter who said
he’s disappointed the president’s first term hasn’t yielded more
racial unity. “We’re at a stalemate and we don’t acknowledge
it.”  Ayers, who has published his own research proving that
slavery prompted the war, said “the capital of the confederacy
is actually quite” politically divided. Neither the new
Virginia nor the old has prevailed in the struggle for the
state’s future, he said. “The South has always been more
complicated than people realize,” Ayers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  