-- 
Virgin Atlantic Interested in Combining With Lufthansa’s BMI

-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 
2011-09-12T17:53:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/virgin-atlantic-interested-in-combining-with-lufthansa-s-bmi-1-.html
Richard Branson ’s Virgin Atlantic
Airways Ltd. joined chief competitor British Airways in saying
it’s interested in a deal with BMI, the U.K. carrier that
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  has indicated may be sold.  “We continue to have a close interest in a combination with
BMI,” Virgin Atlantic said today in a statement, adding that it
currently works with the carrier at  London ’s Heathrow airport,
where the two are among top slot holders after British Airways.  Lufthansa said this month it has hired a bank to help
determine whether to sell BMI or persist with a turnaround plan
for a company acquired under duress in 2009 after then-owner
Michael Bishop exercised a  put option  as airline values fell
during the global slump. British Airways immediately restated
its long-standing interest in buying the business to gain scarce
operating slots at Heathrow,  Europe ’s busiest passenger hub.  Exposure to markets in the  Middle East  and North Africa,
where traffic has been crimped by political unrest, is limiting
the impact of BMI’s recovery strategy, according to  Stephen Furlong , a Davy Stockbrokers analyst in Dublin. The unit posted
a profit in the third quarter of 2010 but had a 120 million-euro
($163 million) operating loss in the first half of this year.  Previous Approaches  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, the owner of
British Airways and Spain’s Iberia, “would be interested’ in
purchasing Castle Donington, England-based BMI should it be
offered for sale, Chief of Staff Julia Simpson said Sept. 2.  Comments in June from IAG Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  stating that he has been keen on BMI “for several years
now and that interest hasn’t change” still stand, she added.  At Virgin, Branson has been pursuing a merger with BMI for
more than a decade, having explored the purchase of an initial
stake bought by Lufthansa in 1999. Virgin CEO Steve Ridgway said
in 2005 a tie-up was “the great undone deal in aviation,” with
the combination of his company’s long-haul routes with BMI’s
short- and mid-distance network giving the transaction “logic.”  More recently, in December 2008, Virgin said it was in
talks over BMI in the run up to Lufthansa being compelled to
take control, while in August 2009 it hired Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. to examine a combination as the German company explored
options for offloading the unit after assuming ownership.  Virgin Atlantic has itself been looking at options for a
strategic investor after Branson ordered a review of the
carrier’s independence when antitrust regulators allowed BA,
 Spain ’s Iberia and AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines  to create a
joint business on the key North Atlantic market.  Virgin Atlantic, which is closely held with Singapore
Airlines Ltd. holding a minority stake, holds about 3 percent of
 take-off and landing positions  at Heathrow. BA and Iberia, which
the U.K. carrier bought to form IAG, hold about 43 percent and
BMI controls about 10 percent, according to Davy’s Furlong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  