-- 
Vote Gives Mexico Chance Not to Change: Enrique Krauze

-- B y   E n r i q u e   K r a u z e
-- 
2011-09-12T00:00:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/vote-gives-mexico-new-chance-to-avoid-change-commentary-by-enrique-krauze.html
(Corrects share of vote obtained by Fox in 2000 elections
in 12th paragraph of article published Sept. 12.)  Even with the global crisis,
 Mexico ’s economy has expanded in recent years.  The growth, while modest, has been surprising, considering
Mexico’s dependence on the U.S. market. But over the last 15
years, Mexico has shown clear signs of maturity in its
macroeconomic policies, a significant change.  Every six years, for far too long, a change of government
would eventually lead to a new economic crisis. This was true of
1976, 1982, 1988 and 1994. Since then, there has been a steadier
and more responsible management of public finances. Yet a
central problem remains unsolved. The economic expansion is
insufficient to mitigate, let alone reverse, the poverty that
afflicts more than 40 percent of the population.  There is a way out, as many independent Mexican observers
and international publications have noted. Deep structural
reforms are needed in the areas of energy and labor relations,
among others. And the dominant structure of monopolies in Mexico
(both private and public) must be opposed.  Such reforms would surely add two or three points to
growth, and help make Mexico a true economic power. Why have
such improvements not been implemented?  In the Iberian world -- Portugal,  Spain  and Latin America -
- modernization hasn’t been the product of right-wing
governments. Instead, such transformations have been carried out
by the left.  Spain,  Chile   In Spain, the Socialist Workers’ Party ascension to
national power moved the country from a hierarchical, closed and
backward society to a dynamic economy with full democracy. In
Chile, the cruel dictatorship of  Augusto Pinochet  proposed
economic reforms, but those only took root and flourished with
the return to democracy, accomplished by left and centrist
forces uniting to win a referendum that deposed the strongman.  In Brazil, two presidents of the left spearheaded change:
the sociologist  Fernando Henrique Cardoso  (who in the 1960s
proposed a radical “theory of dependency” but later proved
capable of honest self-criticism), and his successor, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, a union leader who combined a strong
social commitment with economic pragmatism. They achieved the
miracle of establishing democracies that fused economic
development with effective aid programs for the poor.  In Mexico, however, the dominant parties -- the  PAN , the
PRI and the PRD -- seem incapable of promoting or approving
necessary reforms.  Social Views  The PAN has held national power since 2000, but is likely
to lose it in the legislative and presidential elections of July
2012. Certainly, the PAN has shown it is favorable to economic
change, but its history and its views on social morality situate
it firmly as a party of the right. In its origins, in 1939, the
PAN supported the Spanish dictator Francisco Franco, sympathized
with fascism and sought (unsuccessfully) to keep Mexico neutral
in World War II. (In some quarters of the party, these origins
haven’t been forgotten.)  The contemporary PAN is a liberal party, at least
politically and economically, but anti-liberal (much like the
U.S. religious right) in matters such as abortion and the rights
of sexual minorities.  In 2000, the PAN ended the 71-year hegemony of the PRI when
Vicente Fox, a candidate with charisma who was outside the
political establishment, took office with overwhelming backing
from the public in polls. With such popular support, Fox might
have pushed through the necessary reforms, but he let the
opportunity go by, due to his lack of experience and his
personal irresponsibility.  Oil Industry  President Felipe Calderon, without a majority or any stable
alliance in Congress, hasn’t secured parliamentary approval for
any significant reforms. Since 2007, Congress has debated the
opening of the oil industry, which is necessary because of the
absurd limitations (in this case imposed by a state monopoly and
a state-sponsored union) on the efficiency of this central
source of Mexico’s wealth.  Only superficial changes have been approved, and the same
is true of any effort to reform labor, a fundamental step toward
broadening the workforce. The power of private monopolies
remains undiminished, though they have become the targets of
fines. And the national  tax code  (particularly the process of
collection) needs considerable revision, with far too much
evasion among the highest earners through the use of ploys that
aren’t available to middle-class wage-earners who are taxed
through payroll deductions.  PRI Lead  For the moment, the PRI holds a substantial lead in opinion
polls. But the party has shown no willingness to make necessary
reforms and doesn’t promote any concrete changes. This isn’t
surprising as the PRI dominated Mexican politics for more than
70 years through the very corporate and monopolistic patterns
that most require change.  For example, the party created the public union that
dominates the oil industry as well as other federations of
workers whose income levels and perquisites (especially
retirement pensions) place them in the upper echelons of the
middle class. Their favored position blocks access to the labor
market for millions of young workers.  If the PRI wins the presidency and majorities in both
houses of the legislature (a result that now seems probable), it
will have no great incentive to alter these arrangements.
Instead of a party, the PRI resembles an employment agency for
public jobs, a system of corruption, a machine for electoral
control, all of it daubed with a populist message. It won’t
regain the almost total electoral control it once had -- now
irrevocably in the hands of an autonomous Federal Institute --
but it is highly probable that a PRI administration will want to
return to the good old days of the 20th century.  Candidate of Left  On the left, a minority understands Mexico’s problems and
would use a historical opportunity to begin a new stage of
reform. And they have a possible presidential candidate, Marcelo Ebrard, the successful and efficient mayor of Mexico City. He
fits the model of other reformist leaders on the left elsewhere
in the Hispanic world: former Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez of
Spain, former President Ricardo Lagos in Chile and Lula in
 Brazil .  Ebrard would attract votes not only from his party but also
from discontented PAN supporters and the progressive wing of the
PRI. But he has little chance of becoming the PRD candidate. The
majority of PRD backers (and of members of other small parties
of the left) supports  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , who lost the
last election by the narrowest of margins. His program, ideology
and public image aren’t those of a reformer leader, but instead
are characteristic of a common political type in Latin-American
history: the inspired “redeemer.”  The conclusion is simple and sad. Starting in July 2012, no
matter who wins the presidency, Mexico is likely to forgo its
opportunity to create economic growth. And we Mexicans will be
left in the station as the train of history passes us by yet
again.  (Enrique Krauze, author of “Mexico: A Biography of Power”
and “Redeemers: Ideas and Power in  Latin America ,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.
This article was translated from the Spanish by Hank Heifetz.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Enrique Krauze at  ekrauze@prodigy.net.mx .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 