-- 
Wallabies Wing Breaks Thumb, England’s Lawes Is Cited: World Cup Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-12T08:04:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/wallabies-wing-breaks-thumb-england-s-lawes-is-cited-world-cup-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
stories from the 2011 Rugby  World Cup  in  New Zealand .  Ioane Injured  Australia winger Digby Ioane needs surgery after fracturing
his right thumb in yesterday’s Pool C victory over  Italy , the
Australian Rugby Union said.  Ioane, who’s played in all of the Wallabies’ six Tests this
year, will remain with the squad in New Zealand and is expected
to be available to play again later in the tournament.  “The exact timelines on when he might be able to return
will not be known until after the joint has been operated on,
and his rehabilitation from the injury has begun,” the ARU said
in a statement.  Lawes Cited  England second-rower Courtney Lawes was cited for allegedly
striking  Argentina ’s Mario Ledesma with his knee during their
Pool B match in Dunedin two days ago, tournament organizers
said.  Lawes, 22, will appear at a disciplinary hearing chaired by
independent Judicial Officer Terry Willis of  Australia . He’s the
first player to be cited at the 20-nation tournament.  Springboks Face Layoff  South Africa duo Victor Matfield and Jean de Villiers face
a 10-day layoff after getting injured in yesterday’s 17-16
victory over Wales, team officials said. They’ll miss the
Springboks’ Sept. 17 Pool D game against Fiji.  Center de Villiers has a rib cartilage strain, while
Matfield will join regular second-row partner  Bakkies Botha  on
the sidelines because of tightness in his hamstring, team doctor
Craig Roberts said in a statement. Botha trained in the gym with
the non-playing members of the squad today as the 22 on duty in
Wellington last night were given a day to recover.  “This was undoubtedly the toughest opening game in the
tournament and to get through it with a win and only three
injuries in the squad is not bad,” said Springboks coach Peter de Villiers.  ‘Correct Protocol’  Tournament organizers today said the match officials who
disallowed a disputed James Hook penalty in  Wales ’s one-point
loss to the South Africans had followed correct procedure.  Hook and several teammates were adamant that the 14th-
minute effort had passed inside the right-hand upright after the
assistant referees kept their flags down to indicate that the
kick had missed. Referee Wayne Barnes could have consulted the
television match official, though he chose not to.  “The match official team felt at the time that there was
no need to consult the TMO following a Wales penalty kick as
they were confident that the kick was not successful,” the
International Rugby Board said in a statement. “Correct
protocol was therefore followed.”  Read Return  New Zealand’s first-choice No. 8 Kieran Read said he’s
targeting a return in the final Pool A match against  Canada  on
Oct. 2 after being ruled out of the All Blacks’ opening games
because of a torn ankle ligament. Read said he’s now able to
move about freely without the aid of a protective moon boot.  “All signs are that I’m back on track to play in the game
against Canada,” Read said in comments distributed by
tournament organizers. “Hopefully I’ll be running again next
week. I’m feeling good, but I’ve just got to take everything
step by step.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  