-- 
Wheat Rallying as Great Plains Drought Overcomes Surge in Russian Exports

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a ,   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 
2011-09-12T05:34:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/wheat-rallying-as-great-plains-drought-overcomes-surge-in-russian-exports.html
This year’s surge in Russian wheat
exports, big enough to feed  Japan  for more than two years, may
fail to stop a rally as global demand overwhelms supply curbed
by droughts from the U.S. to Australia.  Russian sales will gain more than fourfold to 17.9 million
metric tons this year, second only to the U.S., the median of 16
analysts’ forecasts compiled by Bloomberg showed. That won’t be
enough to stop global stockpiles shrinking for a second year,
the U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates. Prices will rise
16 percent to $8.50 a bushel by the end of December, according
to 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Russia resumed exports in July after an almost yearlong ban
prompted by its worst drought in a half century. Dry conditions
are now hurting crops from Texas to  Iowa , just as near-record
corn prices spur livestock farmers to use the most wheat for
feed in two decades. Grupo Bimbo SAB, the world’s largest bread
maker, and CSM NV, the biggest manufacturer of bakery
ingredients, increased prices as grain costs rose.  “Wheat is definitely a bullish market,” Romain Lathiere,
a  fund manager  at Diapason Commodities Management in Lausanne,
 Switzerland , which has about $9 billion invested in raw
materials, said by telephone on Sept. 5. “We don’t have good
news concerning the crop, and there is no solution that will
last until farmers seed the next crop during this winter. And
demand, particularly for feed, is increasing.”  Shrinking Stockpiles  Wheat rose 20 percent on the  Chicago  Board of Trade since
 Russia  resumed exports July 1, as drought spread across the
Great Plains in the U.S. and  Europe  began harvesting crops after
the driest spring in three decades. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Agriculture index of eight commodities rose 12 percent while the
MSCI All-Country World Index of equities slumped 16 percent.
Treasuries returned 6.3 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index
shows.  Global wheat demand will advance 3 percent to 675 million
metric tons in the 2011-2012 season, according to the USDA,
which uses a combination of local marketing years for its
estimates. Production will expand faster at 3.7 percent and
still fall short of consumption by almost 2.9 million tons,
reducing stockpiles to a three-year low of 188.9 million tons.  While wheat, which closed at $7.2975 on Sept. 9, is already
trading 55 percent above its 10-year average, it would have to
gain another 84 percent to match the all-time high of $13.495 of
February 2008. Corn is within 9 percent of $7.9975, the price on
June 10 for the July futures that was the highest ever for the
contract.  Livestock Feed  The two grains are trading close to parity, compared with a
five-year average of wheat costing about 1.45 times more than
corn. That will spur an 11 percent gain in the use of wheat in
livestock feed this year to 127.9 million tons, the most in 21
years, the USDA estimates.  Russia exported 3.98 million tons of wheat in the last
marketing year, the USDA estimates. The additional 13.9 million
tons anticipated in the Bloomberg survey compares with annual
Japanese consumption of about 6.15 million tons.  Analysts aren’t forecasting a return to the record prices
of 2008 because of bigger harvests in  Kazakhstan ,  China ,  India 
and  Egypt . The four nations’ combined output will increase 6.9
percent to 227.6 million tons, equal to 34 percent of global
production, USDA estimates show. The Washington-based department
is scheduled to release its monthly update today on production
and consumption.  Egyptian output will mean less need for overseas purchases
by the world’s biggest importer. The most-populous Arab nation
will buy 10 million tons, the fewest in three years, USDA
forecasts show.  Ukraine Exports  Additional exports may come from Ukraine, which curbed
shipments last year through a quota system after a drought. The
sales will more than double to 9 million tons this marketing
year, the USDA estimates. Ukraine still has a 9 percent duty on
outbound wheat shipments.  The rally may also be curbed by investors betting that a
weaker global economy will hurt demand. Consumption fell 0.8
percent in 2008 as the world suffered its worst recession since
World War II. More than $8.2 trillion was erased from the value
of global equities since April 30, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Speculators remain bullish on wheat.  Hedge funds  switched
to a net-long position, or bet on higher prices, in the week
ended Aug. 23, having been bearish since June, data from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The following week,
they more than tripled their combined wager to the highest in
almost two months.  The most widely held option in Chicago futures trading
gives holders the right to buy wheat at $9 by November, with the
next biggest contracts at $8 and $10 by the same date, Chicago
Board of Trade data show.  Grupo Bimbo  Costlier grain drove Mexico City-based Grupo Bimbo, which
makes Entenmann’s cakes and Thomas’ English muffins, to raise
prices by 3 percent to 4 percent in the first half. Flour
expenses rose 30 percent in the second quarter, Chief Executive
Officer Daniel Servitje said in a conference call July 22. The
company will report a 14 percent gain in net income to 6.13
billion pesos ($483 million) this year, the mean of four analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows.  CSM (CSM) , based in Amsterdam, said in July its price increases
weren’t keeping up with raw material costs, which will increase
by about 240 million euros ($328 million) for the year. The
company will report net income of 84.6 million euros this year,
compared with 99.3 million in 2010, the mean of seven analysts’
estimates shows.  The U.S. drought may keep limiting supply into next year.
The current harvest will drop 6 percent to 56.5 million tons, a
four-year low, the USDA estimates. The next crop may be even
smaller unless rain comes in the coming two months, said  Shawn McCambridge , the senior grain analyst for Jefferies Bache
Commodities LLC in Chicago.  Fields Fallow  “They’re in such an exceptional drought now, I have to
wonder if farmers are going to be willing to plant into
basically dust,” McCambridge said. Farmers may leave fields
fallow over the winter and instead plant sorghum or corn in
spring, he said.  Parts of southern Kansas and western Oklahoma have had less
than half their normal rainfall, while areas of  Texas  had 25
percent or less, National Weather Service data show. Drought has
spread northeastward, hurting corn and soybeans in Iowa,
Illinois and Indiana. In southwestern U.S. wheat-growing areas,
the drought may last through November, because of the developing
 La Nina , a period of cooling equatorial waters on the  Pacific
Ocean , the National Weather Service estimates.  Winter Crops  Kansas, Texas and Oklahoma are historically the biggest
growers of hard, red winter wheat used to make bread, and in
2010 they accounted for about 28 percent of U.S. production of
all varieties. Winter-wheat crops are planted from September and
harvested beginning in May.  Australia’s crop, forecast by the USDA to drop about 4
percent to 25 million tons, is also threatened.  Australia  & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd., National Australia Bank Ltd.,
Westpac Banking Corp. and Commonwealth Bank of Australia all cut
estimates in the last month, citing dry conditions in eastern
states. The harvest starts in October.  The 27-nation European Union will reap 133.5 million tons
this year, a decline of 1.6 percent and the lowest in four
years, the USDA estimates. Spring drought hurt yields in France
and  Germany , the EU’s largest growers and shippers, and rain
during the German harvest delayed harvesting.  “The high harvest in Russia to unlikely to compensate for
losses in the U.S. and European harvests,”  Eugen Weinberg , head
of commodities research at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said by
telephone on Sept. 7. “Wheat is a defensive play during
economic slowdowns, so prices and demand are likely to be more
stable or even rise compared with industrial commodities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  