-- H&M Second-Quarter Profit Beats Estimates on U.S. Sales
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-06-20T13:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/h-m-second-quarter-profit-beats-estimates-on-u-s-sales.html
Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) ,  Europe ’s
second-largest clothing retailer, posted the strongest profit
increase in seven quarters as sales rose in the U.S. and  Asia .  Net income gained 23 percent to 5.22 billion kronor ($750
million) in the three months through May, the Stockholm-based
company said in a statement today. That beat the 4.86 billion-
kronor  average  estimate of 14 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  H&M and competitors such as  Inditex SA (ITX)  are boosting sales
and profit as hard-pressed consumers turn to budget fashions to
save money. Inditex, owner of the Zara chain, last week reported
a 30 percent gain in earnings, also the strongest profit growth
in seven quarters. H&M, which sells dresses for less than 20
euros ($25), has focused store expansion on Asia and the U.S. to
help offset a slowdown in European  consumer spending .  “This is a strong update from H&M, which in our view has
for the first time for over 18 months delivered a better-than-
expected performance in both sales and margin,” Gillian Hilditch, an analyst at JPMorgan Cazenove, wrote in a note.  H&M  rose  as much as 4.1 percent in Stockholm trading and
was up 4 percent at 239.60 kronor as of 3:26 p.m., the highest
level in two months. The stock has advanced 8.1 percent this
year, trailing Inditex’s 22 percent increase.  Margin Beat  H&M said the  gross margin  was unchanged at 61.7 percent of
sales in the second quarter as markdowns remained at the same
level as last year. Analysts expected the profitability gauge to
narrow to 61 percent, according to the average of 13 estimates.  The retailer said it will open seven to 10 stores called
“& Other Stories” next year. Prices at the new chain will in
the middle of those of the H&M and COS chains, the company said.
The chain will have separate design and buying teams based in
Paris and  Stockholm , the company said.  The Swedish retailer said on June 15 that second-quarter
sales rose 15 percent to 31.7 billion kronor, beating estimates.  H&M repeated today that it plans to add about 275 stores in
the financial year through November, with  China , the U.S. and
the U.K. being the  largest areas for expansion . The retailer,
which had 2,575 stores as of May 31, also sees opportunities in
Germany, France and  Italy  and will start online sales in the
U.S. in the fall, it said. H&M stores will open in five new
markets this year and the company has signed contracts to open
outlets in Estonia and  Indonesia  in 2013.  Expansion Intact  “Our expansion plan remains intact,” Chief Executive
Officer Karl-Johan Persson said in a statement today. “The
spring collections have been well received by our customers.”  The retailer said it continues to invest in  Greece  as it
looks beyond a difficult economic situation in southern Europe.
The company is also looking at specific measures to take if
Greece exits the euro, Persson said, without giving more detail.  “We continue to grow in Greece and to open new stores,”
Persson said in an interview. “Even if we may lose some sales,
we still gain market share” in that market, as well as Spain
and Italy, he said.  -- With assistance from Janina Pfalzer in Stockholm. Editors:
 Paul Jarvis , Thomas Mulier  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  