-- T-Mobile’s Cell-Tower Sale Is Said to Attract Bidders
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z ,   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-06-21T07:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/t-mobile-s-cell-tower-cell-is-said-to-attract-bidders.html
T-Mobile USA Inc. received a second
round of bids for its cellular towers, attracting offers from
companies such as  American Tower Corp. (AMT)  and  Crown Castle
International Corp. (CCI) , a person with knowledge of the deal said.  The unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , which owns about 7,000
antenna towers in the U.S., has also received bids from private-
equity firms, said the person, who asked not to be named because
the discussions aren’t public. Selling the assets could raise
about $2 billion, according to Kevin Smithen, an analyst with
Macquarie Capital in New York.  Deutsche Telekom set out to sell T-Mobile USA’s towers
after a failed takeover of the carrier by AT&T Inc. last year.
The deal would help the company raise money for wireless
spectrum and network enhancements, while allowing T-Mobile to
rent back antenna space on the towers. The new owner could then
use the assets to provide service to other carriers as well.  “I expect they will announce a winner in July and probably
close the deal by September,” Smithen said.  Deutsche Telekom appointed the New York boutique bank TAP
Advisors LLC to search for a tower buyer and raise cash,
Bloomberg reported in March.  AT&T Deal  Cara Walker, a T-Mobile spokeswoman, and Philipp Kornstaedt, a Deutsche Telekom spokesman, declined to comment.
American Tower and Crown Castle, two of the largest U.S.
cellular-tower operators, didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  Deutsche Telekom dropped 1 percent to 8.32 euros as of 9:27
a.m. in Frankfurt.  AT&T (T) ’s $39 billion bid for T-Mobile collapsed in December
because of regulatory opposition. Even as it aims to offload the
towers, T-Mobile’s German parent is stepping up investments in
the division. Deutsche Telekom plans to boost U.S. network
spending by $1.4 billion over two years in a race to upgrade
equipment and bring faster connections to smartphones.  T-Mobile, based in Bellevue, Washington, is the only large
U.S. carrier that doesn’t offer  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone. That’s put
it at a disadvantage to its three larger rivals,  Verizon
Wireless , AT&T and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   T-Mobile lost 1.65 million contract customers last year, a
slump that’s prompting it to make cutbacks. The company said
last month that it plans to trim 900 jobs. It’s also eliminating
1,900 jobs by closing seven call centers.  Even so, T-Mobile benefited from a breakup agreement with
AT&T following the merger’s collapse. The company received $3
billion in cash; wireless frequencies in cities such as  Los
Angeles , Dallas, Houston, Washington and  San Francisco ; and
lower fees for calls into AT&T’s network.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  