-- Madoff Class-Action Lawsuit Is Blocked by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-06-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/madoff-class-action-lawsuit-is-barred-by-bankruptcy-judge-1-.html
A U.S. bankruptcy judge barred a
class-action lawsuit filed in Florida against the estate of
former Bernard Madoff investor Jeffry Picower.  The Madoff brokerage trustee,  Irving Picard , settled a
lawsuit against the Picower estate for $7.2 billion in 2010,
after alleging Picower knew of and profited from Madoff’s fraud.
Pamela Goldman and a related partnership asked U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge  Burton Lifland  in Manhattan to let their suit go forward,
even after similar actions had been barred by Lifland and other
judges on appeal, the judge said yesterday in an order filed in
court.  “This court has sole jurisdiction over the administration
and distribution of estate assets to customers,” he said.  The judge’s ruling on the Florida class action may help
Picard, who has been fighting to preserve his sole right to sue
to recover money for the con man’s customers. Customers who have
little prospect of being paid by Picard, and other parties, say
he is interfering with their rights.  Joshua Angel, a lawyer for Goldman, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the ruling.  Picower, one of the largest of Madoff’s investors, may have
suspected the con man was running a  Ponzi scheme , according to
Picard. Picower drowned in 2009, and his estate forfeited the
money to the U.S. and Picard.  California Suit  This month, Picard accused California Attorney General
 Kamala Harris  of breaking the law by suing to recoup $270
million in illegal profits from  Stanley Chais ’s estate in
competition with himself. Harris has said her suit isn’t barred
under bankruptcy law, because she is exercising her policing
power under state law.  Picard sued Chais and related entities in 2009, demanding
the return of $1 billion allegedly withdrawn fraudulently from
the Ponzi scheme. The  money manager  died in 2010.  Most of the $9 billion that Picard says he has raised from
settlements is tied up in court challenges, and unavailable for
distribution to customers who lost money.  Madoff, 72, is serving 150 years in prison after pleading
guilty to orchestrating the fraud that destroyed his New York-
based firm, which collapsed in December 2008. Picard and his  law
firm , Baker & Hostetler LLP, have charged about $273 million for
liquidating the estate, while returning just $330 million to
customers.  The Lifland ruling is on the docket of the main case:
Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  