-- Taiwan Shuts Central, Southern Areas as Storm Approaches
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2012-06-20T07:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/taiwan-shuts-central-southern-areas-as-storm-approaches.html
Taiwan ’s capital Taipei and northern
areas including Taoyuan and Keelung were told to shut schools
and businesses tonight as Tropical Storm Talim approaches.  Central and southern regions, including the cities of
Taichung, Tainan and Kaohsiung, shut businesses earlier today as
sea and land warnings were issued and industrial parks put on
alert. Financial markets remained open as Talim approached from
the southwest.  Hsinchu City and County, home to technology and electronics
companies such as chipmaker  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. (2330)  and panel producer  AU Optronics Corp. (2409) , also announced
closures in the afternoon. The  Central Weather Bureau  warned of
heavy rain and possible landslides across most of Taiwan.  Taiwan’s Cabinet told the economics ministry to accelerate
the setting up of pumping stations while the  Taipei City
government  shut access to riverside car parks and closed its
Maokong tourist gondola as the weather bureau estimated the
rainfall through Friday may exceed 1,500 millimeters (59
inches). Science park administrators set up emergency response
and relief centers, advising tenants to beware of flooding and
possible power shortages.  Formosa Petrochemical Corp. (6505) , Taiwan’s only publicly traded
refiner, has halted its No. 2 and No. 3 naphtha crackers because
of an electricity outage at its Mailiao complex in central
Taiwan, Chairman Chen Bao-lang said by phone today.  More than 4,000 people in 10 areas have been evacuated amid
risks of mudslides as of 11 a.m., the Central Emergency
Operation Center said on its website.  Talim, with sustained winds of as strong as 83 kilometers
per hour (52 miles per hour) gusting to 108 kilometers per hour,
was centered 70 kilometers northwest of the outlying island of
Penghu and heading northeast at 39 kilometers to 42 kilometers
per hour as of 2:30 p.m. local time today, the  Central Weather
Bureau  said on its website. The Taoyuan District in southern
Kaohsiung city had the most rainfall of 461 millimeters in the
last two days, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net ;
 Bruce Grant  at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net  