-- Alibaba Considers Payment Options for Taobao Users Abroad
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-20T16:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/alibaba-considers-payment-options-for-taobao-users-abroad.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.,  China ’s
biggest e-commerce company, is considering new ways to
facilitate payments by overseas customers on its Taobao shopping
site as cross-border transactions increase.  Alibaba’s Alipay affiliate is “working on a couple of
ways” to allow  Taobao  users outside China to pay for goods and
services, Brian Li, a vice president at Alibaba, said yesterday
in an interview at the company’s headquarters in Hangzhou,
China. Overseas users account for about 5 percent of the more
than 400 million registered accounts at Taobao, he said.  China’s biggest online retail operator displays products in
Mandarin only, and overseas users mostly make purchases through
 agents , Li said. Hong Kong,  Russia  and Japan are among the
biggest sources of overseas users for Taobao, he said.  “It’s not convenient for foreigners to buy on Taobao using
online payment services,” Li said.  Taobao already accepts payments from buyers using credit
cards issued in more than 10 countries including the U.K.,
 Japan , France and Australia, according to its website.  Alibaba doesn’t plan to promote the Taobao site overseas at
present, Li said. The company had considered setting up an
English website for Taobao before deciding it wasn’t needed, he
said. The emergence of third-party intermediaries between
overseas buyers and Chinese sellers made this unnecessary, Li
said.  Shipping Challenge  Shipping presents a “bigger challenge” because many
vendors lack the ability to send products overseas, Li said.  Taobao and Tmall.com, a sister site that opened in 2008,
dominate e-commerce in China and together account for 71 percent
of consumers’ online purchases, according to research company
Analysys International. Most of those customers use Alipay.  Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688) , an Alibaba Group unit that operates a e-
commerce site for business owners, already offer services
internationally. The subsidiary is being delisted from the Hong
Kong stock exchange after the parent completes a $2.5 billion
buyout of minority shareholders.  Alibaba’s ownership of the Alipay online payment business
was transferred to a company controlled by billionaire founder
Jack Ma, shareholder  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  said last year. The spinoff
prompted Yahoo to negotiate compensation with the Chinese
company.  The transfer of Alipay into Chinese ownership was necessary
to facilitate applying for an online payment license in China,
Alibaba had said. The Chinese company agreed on a compensation
deal with Yahoo and  Softbank Corp. (9984) , another shareholder, in July
2011.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  