-- Alibaba Said to Get Part One of China Development Bank Loan
-- B y   W e n d y   M o c k
-- 2012-06-20T10:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/alibaba-said-to-get-part-one-of-china-development-bank-loan-1-.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. is
getting about $1 billion in a loan from  China Development Bank 
Corp. to help finance the privatization of its Hong Kong-listed
unit, which said it would delist today, two people familiar with
the matter said.  The three-year loan of about $1 billion from China
Development Bank is the first portion of a two-part financing
package provided by the Chinese lender, the people said, asking
not to be identified because the details are private. The size
of the second portion of the loan from CDB hasn’t been
determined and may have a tenor of four years, the people said.  John Spelich, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Alibaba,
declined to comment when asked about the financing today by
phone.  The financing from CDB replaces a bridge loan provided by a
syndicate of international lenders, the people said. Alibaba
signed a $3 billion loan with a syndicate of 19 banks on June
12, two other people familiar with the matter said at the time.
That loan is split into a $2 billion bridge loan and a $1
billion three-year  term loan .  Alibaba bid HK$13.50 ($1.74) a share for the 27 percent of
 Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688)  it doesn’t already own, according to a Feb. 21
 Hong Kong  Stock Exchange statement. Alibaba.com was to withdrew
the listing of its shares at 4 p.m. Hong Kong time, according to
an exchange filing earlier today.  Some of the money that Alibaba is borrowing from the
syndicate of international lenders and CDB will also be used to
help finance a buyback of an about 20 percent stake of Alibaba
owned by Yahoo! Inc., according to one of the people who spoke
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Mock in Hong Kong at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  