-- Gaza Rockets Fired Into Israel Cloud Hopes for Cease-Fire
-- B y   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-06-21T07:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/hamas-links-ending-rocket-attacks-to-israeli-air-strikes.html
Militants in the  Gaza Strip  fired
seven rockets into  Israel  overnight, clouding hopes that an
offer by Hamas fighters to consider a cease-fire might curtail a
three-day upsurge in violence.  The Al-Qassam Brigades, the military wing of the Islamic
Hamas movement that rules Gaza, said in an e-mailed statement
late yesterday that its members were ready to stop firing
rockets at southern Israel when Israel halts air strikes. That
was before seven rockets fired from Gaza struck Israel early
today, hitting open areas and causing no injuries or damage, an
Israeli army spokeswoman said, speaking on condition of
anonymity in accordance with military regulation.  The group said it had responded positively to a “highly
appreciated Egyptian effort to stop this aggression on our
people. Therefore we and all factions are committed to end this
round only if the occupation stops it.” Israeli Defense
Ministry spokesman Josh Hantman declined to comment in a phone
interview whether  Egypt  is mediating communications with Hamas.  Israeli strikes on Gaza killed two Palestinians yesterday,
bringing the death toll to nine since the most recent violence
started on June 18 when an Israeli was killed in an attack on
the border with Egypt.  About 120 rockets and mortar shells have hit southern
Israel in the current round of fighting, an army spokesman said,
speaking anonymously in accordance with Israeli military
regulations.  Egyptian Uncertainty  Al Arabiya  reported that the al-Qassam Brigades said in a
statement that it had fired 96 rockets and nine mortar rounds at
Israel. The last time Hamas claimed responsibility for firing
rockets at Israel was in April 2011.  The new bloodshed comes as the  Muslim Brotherhood ’s Mohamed Mursi claimed victory in Egypt’s presidential election, the
first since the overthrow of president  Hosni Mubarak  last year.  Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  and other Israeli leaders have
voiced concerns about worsening security on the border with
Egypt, which signed a peace treaty with the Jewish state more
than three decades ago. They have also cited links between the
Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt and Hamas, which Israel, the
European Union and the U.S. consider a terrorist organization.  The Israeli army said one of the Palestinians killed
yesterday was an Islamic militant who was behind the June 18
border attack.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saud Abu Ramadan in Jerusalem at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  