-- Amazon Rival Rackspace Evokes Dot-Com Era Deal: Real M&A
-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-06-20T20:28:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/amazon-rival-rackspace-evokes-dot-com-era-deal-real-m-a.html
Rackspace Hosting Inc. (RAX)  is tempting
buyers that covet a foothold in the cloud to tackle the largest
U.S. Internet takeover since the dot-com bubble.  Rackspace has more than tripled since its 2008 initial
public offering as it evolved into  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s biggest
competitor in cloud computing, which allows businesses to save
money on data centers by storing information on remote servers
and accessing it via the Web. While the $6.1 billion company has
a higher valuation relative to earnings than almost two-thirds
of Internet software and e-commerce firms, it’s less than half
as expensive as Amazon, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Even after profit failed to top analysts’ estimates for the
 first time  in four quarters, the company is still projected to
almost triple  net income  by 2014 as the market for cloud-
computing infrastructure services expands to $10.5 billion from
$3.7 billion last year, according to Gartner Inc. Benchmark Co.
says that may lure  AT&T Inc. (T) , International Business Machines
Corp. or  Dell Inc. (DELL)  An acquisition may fetch as much as 13 times
estimated 2013 earnings, said Dougherty & Co., valuing the San
Antonio-based company at $7.9 billion for the biggest takeover
of a U.S. Internet company in 12 years, the data show.  “There truly isn’t anyone else out there that’s
independent and as big as Rackspace in cloud infrastructure,”
 Clayton Moran , a  Delray Beach , Florida-based analyst at
Benchmark, said in a telephone interview. “There’s good value
here given the strong growth. Potential acquirers are pretty
deep-pocketed so they certainly could pay a healthy multiple.”  ‘Fiduciary Duties’  “We think this is a paradigm shift in computing and the
future is huge for the winners in this space,” Lew Moorman,
president of Rackspace, said in an interview yesterday. “We
want to build something great. Our board has fiduciary duties,
but we’re not for sale.”  Rackspace lets its more than 180,000 business customers
store their websites and applications on its servers. The fleet
of data centers it runs competes with  Amazon Web Services  in the
public-cloud market, where customers rent computing power,
storage and other services.  Rackspace is moving its cloud services to  OpenStack , an
open-source project that it created as an alternative to
Seattle-based Amazon’s product. OpenStack lets companies build
their own clouds using Rackspace’s code. The effort has the
backing of the U.S. space agency  NASA , and it’s being used by
companies such as Dell and AT&T, whose offerings compete with
Rackspace’s.  Amazon’s Cloud  Competition in the market is still heating up. Amazon’s
cloud business may have reaped $800 million in revenue last
year,  Heather Bellini , a New York-based analyst at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., estimated in a February report.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is
promoting its  Azure  services, while traditional technology
providers IBM and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  are also in the market.  Rackspace increased revenue at its cloud unit by 88 percent
last year to  $189.2 million . The company has gained share with
its early entry into the market and has maintained it by
charging a premium for service, said Mark Kelleher, a Boston-
based analyst at Dougherty.  “There’s going to be such a competitive fight going on for
cloud customers,” Kelleher said in a phone interview. “Pricing
is going to come down and the service capabilities of other
competitors are going to come up. Amazon has put some new
service components on top of their cloud to try to close the
service gap with Rackspace.”  Revenue in the first quarter climbed 31 percent to $301.4
million, while analysts on average predicted sales of $300.2
million. Rackspace still reported earnings of 17 cents a share,
failing to exceed the average of analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Stock Decline  “As the founders of OpenStack they sit at the center of
this open-source movement,” James Staten, an analyst at
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Forrester Research Inc., said in
an e-mail. “However, they haven’t moved as aggressively as
others in expanding their cloud services or geographic reach.”  The market for cloud infrastructure as a service “is
growing rapidly and so market share today is fleeting,” he
said. The move to OpenStack should free up internal resources to
help build new cloud services, which could help the company
secure its market position, Staten said.  Since Rackspace reported earnings May 7, the shares
declined  22 percent  through yesterday, reducing its market value
by $1.5 billion.  “As the stock pulled back, obviously it looks even more
attractive,”  Mark Demos , a portfolio manager who helps oversee
$15 billion including Rackspace shares at Fifth Third Asset
Management in Minneapolis, said in a phone interview. “There’s
going to be a lot more chatter about a takeout. It’s been a big
growth business.”  Rich Valuation  Even after the recent stock drop, the company still had an
 enterprise value  of $6.1 billion yesterday, which was almost 18
times its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in the last 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That’s more expensive than about two out of every three
Internet software makers and Web retailers globally with market
values of at least $100 million, the data show. The group trades
at a median of 13 times Ebitda.  Among the nine publicly traded companies that Rackspace
lists as cloud-computing competitors in its annual filing, its
Ebitda multiple trails only Amazon, which at 47 times is the
sixth highest in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “Given the multiple Rackspace is trading at, even with the
recent drop, there would have to be a fabulous premium to
provide any upside,” Barry McCarver, an analyst with Stephens
Inc. in  Little Rock ,  Arkansas , said in a phone interview. “It’s
already trading so high.”  Growing Cloud  Today, shares of Rackspace fell 1 percent to $44.67.  The growing market for cloud services, where companies can
pay pennies an hour to have their apps and websites hosted
rather than buying and managing their own servers, may still
attract takeover interest from buyers including AT&T,  IBM (IBM) , Dell
and Microsoft, Benchmark’s Moran said in the interview.  “It would be a buy or build decision and it would just be
a lot quicker and more efficient to buy,” Moran said. “Not
only are you buying the operating capability, but also the brand
which has a good reputation.”  AT&T, the largest U.S. phone company, may be an interested
buyer because it has already adopted the OpenStack software for
its cloud services, said Dougherty’s Kelleher. AT&T is ramping
up competition with Amazon as it tries to convince developers
and small businesses to switch to using its infrastructure,
called  AT&T Cloud Architect , which was introduced in January to
provide hosting services via the Internet.  Dell’s Interest  Kelleher said that Dell, the world’s third-largest maker of
personal computers, may be the most likely acquirer because it
also uses OpenStack, Rackspace’s servers and storage are based
on Dell products and the company has been pursuing deals. Dell
bought closely held Wyse Technology Inc. last month to gain
desktop devices used by cloud-computing customers.  “Dell has been sort of behind in their cloud efforts, so
I’d probably have to put them at the top of the stack,”
Kelleher said. “Dell’s been on an acquisition binge lately.”  Mark Siegel , a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T;  David Frink , a spokesman for  Round Rock , Texas-based Dell;  Frank Shaw ,
a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft; and  Ed Barbini , a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based IBM, all
declined to comment on speculation.  Unwilling Seller  While Rackspace would be an attractive acquisition target
for access to an expanding market, management may be resistant
to a sale, said Christopher Larsen, a New York-based analyst at
Piper Jaffray Cos. Chairman Graham Weston, 48, owns about 19.4
million shares of Rackspace, making him the company’s biggest
stockholder with more than 14 percent of the shares outstanding,
according to a March regulatory filing.  “The seller may not be all that willing,” Larsen said.
“Frankly, anyone interested in cloud storage would be
interested in it if they thought they were selling. They have
access to great technology. They have a great reputation.
They’re in a very fast-growing industry.”  Dougherty’s Kelleher said Rackspace management would demand
a price tag that’s at least 13 times his estimate for Ebitda
next year of $606 million, including stock-based compensation.
That would amount to $7.9 billion and rank as the largest U.S.
Internet takeover since 2000, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg that includes net debt.  Globally, it would be the second-biggest Internet deal
since then, trailing Microsoft’s $8.5 billion takeover last year
of Luxembourg-based Skype Technologies SA.  Price Tag  “You’d really have to make a compelling offer to get them
to go do something else,” Kelleher said. “They believe they’re
on a very strong path, and I think would require a nice premium
to sell.”  He said Dell may be the only acquirer able to justify such
a price, while other buyers may only be able to pay 10 times
Ebitda, on par with the company’s current enterprise value.  A bid for Rackspace would have to be at least $60 a share,
said Fifth Third’s Demos, which would top the stock’s  all-time
high  closing price of $59.04 on April 27. Moran of Benchmark
pegs a potential price tag at $63 a share, a 40 percent premium
to yesterday’s closing price.  “Amazon’s number one and you can’t buy it,” Pat Walravens, an analyst at JMP Securities in  San Francisco , said
in a phone interview. “Rackspace is number two. Sure, you could
buy it. You’d just have to be willing to pay a lot of money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 