-- Americans Say They’re Better Off Since Obama Took Office
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2012-06-20T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/americans-say-they-re-better-off-since-obama-took-office.html
A plurality of Americans now say
they are better off than they were when President  Barack Obama 
was inaugurated, providing a surprising lift to Obama’s re-
election campaign despite troublesome economic news.  Forty-five percent of those surveyed in a Bloomberg
National Poll say they are better off than at the beginning of
2009 compared with 36 percent who say they are worse off. In
March, poll respondents split almost evenly on that question
after having been decidedly negative since the aftermath of the
worst recession in seven decades.  “I’m just tired of the doom and gloom,” says Jim Seeley,
52, a mortgage banker in Traverse City,  Michigan , and a poll
respondent, in a follow-up interview. “I think it’s looking
better. People just need to stay positive.”  The poll, conducted June 15-18, contains more unlikely
cheer for the president, with larger numbers of respondents
saying their  household income  is higher than a year ago. While
44 percent say they are treading water, the better off
outnumbered the worse off by 28 percent to 22 percent.  The share saying they are making substantial purchases they
had been delaying, dining out more often, or taking deferred
vacations all rose compared with March 2011. Seeley and his wife
are among them. Earlier this year, the couple went on a seven-
day cruise in the  Gulf of Mexico , joining 27 percent of
respondents who say they are taking postponed trips compared
with 20 percent in March 2011.  Clash With Data  The poll of 1,002 U.S. adults was conducted for Bloomberg
News by Selzer & Co. of  Des Moines ,  Iowa . The results have a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  The poll’s findings of respondents’ brightening assessments
of how they’re doing are at odds with recent data. The latest
figures on industrial production,  consumer confidence , initial
jobless claims and retail sales all showed a weakening economy.
Since the last Bloomberg National Poll in March, the Standard
and Poor’s 500 Index is down about 1 percent.  About the only recent positive news for consumers has been
a steady two-month decline in gasoline prices. Since peaking at
$3.94 a gallon on April 5, regular unleaded gasoline has fallen
 to $3.50 , according to AAA.  “Even as the market signals continuing softness in the
economy, gloom at the personal level seems to have bottomed
out,” says J. Ann Selzer, who directs the Bloomberg poll.  Wall Street Banks  There are hints of unease in the findings: 32 percent of
Americans say they’re hopeful about improvement in the economy,
down from 37 percent in March. And 19 percent say they’re
fearful, compared with 17 percent three months ago.  Major Wall Street banks last week underscored the economy’s
subpar outlook.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  cut its second-quarter
tracking estimate for growth to 1.6 percent from 1.8 percent.
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  sliced its 2012 estimate to 2 percent from 2.3
percent and said the economy likely would slow further in 2013.  Even with the run of bad reports, Americans say they prefer
Obama’s economic vision to that of his presumptive Republican
rival, former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , by a margin of
49 percent to 33 percent. That finding reflects a 7-percentage-
point gain for Obama since March and an equal loss for his
opponent, identified then as “Republicans” and in this survey
as Romney.  “You don’t just trust the private sector to do the right
thing,” says Chris Howell, 23, who works at a nonprofit
organization in  West Chester , Pennsylvania. Obama’s policies are
better suited to providing “long-term solutions” for the
economy’s problems, he added.  ‘Hatchet Job’  Obama gets poor marks from some respondents for his
handling of the nation’s economic situation.  “He’s done a hatchet job on the economy,” says Larry
Wilson, 49, a production supervisor at a corrugated box maker in
Lancaster, Pennsylvania.  Wilson complains that prices are outstripping his salary
and that the president is stifling business with excessive
regulation. He’s anticipating a Romney presidency that will
repair the damage.  “I expect him to do something similar to what Reagan did:
exude some confidence in the American people, not government,”
Wilson says.  The public also has flip-flopped on its view of the
appropriate government role in the economy since the March 2011
Bloomberg poll.  New Focus  Fifteen months ago, as congressional Republicans pressed
the White House to agree to deep budget cuts, a majority of poll
respondents echoed the party’s argument that government should
focus on  deficit-cutting . Now that the presidential choice has
narrowed to Obama or Romney, Americans by a margin of 51 percent
to 43 percent are endorsing the administration’s call to invest
in infrastructure and alternative energy projects to boost
hiring.  “I’m a Keynesian,” says Dale Phillips, 60, a  management
consultant  in Houston. “Government does play a role.”  Phillips is among those counting themselves better off. His
six-figure salary has risen about 15 percent since the
recession’s depths in early 2009.  The improving public mood remains precarious and, in some
cases, should be characterized as less awful rather than better.
A plurality of poll respondents still expect American children
to have a lower standard of living than their parents do. Yet
the 45 percent to 28 percent margin is narrower than a year ago,
when 55 percent expected the next generation’s living standards
to drop compared with only 23 percent who retained their faith
in the American Dream.  Home Prices  And amid indications that the decline in housing prices may
be at or near an end, 14 percent of respondents say the market
value of their home increased in the past year compared with 33
percent who say it declined. The last time that question was
asked, in December 2009, only 8 percent said their home’s value
had increased.  Americans also split about evenly over changes in their
overall sense of financial security in the past year, with the
largest share, 47 percent, reporting no change.  “I’m hopeful for improvement, but I temper that with
pragmatism,” says Catherine Lahey, 28, a sports marketing
executive in DeLand,  Florida .  After 40 consecutive months of a  jobless rate  higher than 8
percent, Americans in general, too, are slowly growing less
anxious about employment. Those reporting improved  job security 
for people in their household rose to 19 percent, still less
than the 22 percent saying their hold on employment is shakier.  That divide reflected an improvement from December 2009,
when those who said their job security was worsening outweighed
those feeling more secure 28 percent to 7 percent.  “I started working full time and making more money,” says
Nathan Blubaugh, 25, a mental health counselor in Media,
 Pennsylvania . “Things are getting better. They’re not getting
better quickly, but they’re getting better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  