-- American Airlines Pilots Won't Vote on Final Offer
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-06-21T01:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/american-airlines-pilots-won-t-vote-on-final-contract-offer-1-.html
American Airlines pilots won’t vote
on a final concessionary offer from the bankrupt carrier,
leaving the future of their contract in the hands of a judge.  The  Allied Pilots Association  board decided 11 to 5 not to
send the company’s offer to members for a vote, Gregg Overman, a
union spokesman, said today in an e-mail. The decision comes
ahead of a June 22 deadline for a bankruptcy judge to decide
whether the carrier can throw out existing contracts and impose
new terms to help cut $1.25 billion in annual labor costs.  The carrier’s offer was “too sketchy and ambiguous” to
send to members for a vote, Tom Hoban, another spokesman for the
pilots group, said in an interview. The union will ask American
to seek more time to fully analyze some proposals, Hoban said.
Pilot scheduling is the main unresolved issue, he said.  American sought court permission to void its labor
agreements after failing to negotiate concessions in an earlier
round of talks that followed the airline’s Nov. 29 bankruptcy
filing. Those efforts echoed the results of contract talks going
back as far as 2006.  Fort Worth , Texas-based American in part
blamed what it said are industry-leading labor costs for its
Chapter 11 filing.  American made its last offer on June 15 after a final round
of talks failed to produce an agreement. The APA board has been
evaluating the offer and debating the membership vote since June
18.  Airline’s Offer  Bruce Hicks , a spokesman for American, said in an e-mailed
statement that the airline was “very disappointed” the union
didn’t give pilots “the opportunity to vote on our last, best
and final offer.” The proposal includes “pay increases, a mid-
term adjustment to industry pay rates, furlough protection,
profit sharing, seeking a freeze of the pension instead of
termination, and an equity stake in the new American.”  American’s flight attendants and mechanics also failed to
reach agreements during talks urged by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Sean Lane. He had encouraged the negotiations, overseen by a
second bankruptcy judge, in the hope that accords could be
reached before his June 22 deadline to rule on voiding existing
contracts.  American is seeking to cut spending in each work group by
20 percent a year, or $370 million for pilots, as part of the
$1.25 billion. Its original proposal included laying off 400
pilots and loosening restrictions on flights made by regional
partners and on use of flight marketing accords with other U.S.
airlines. Details of the current offer haven’t been disclosed.  Possible Merger  The APA, the Transport Workers Union and the  Association of
Professional Flight Attendants  have reached contract terms with
 US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , conditioned on a merger of the two
airlines. Tempe, Arizona-based  US Airways , which hasn’t made a
formal bid for American, has said it’s meeting with the
carrier’s creditors to build support for a combination.  Members of five work groups represented by the TWU at
American approved the company’s last contract offer on May 15,
meaning they aren’t included in the continued efforts to toss
out existing agreements. Those groups included baggage handlers
and other airport ramp workers.  The case is In re  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  