-- Apple, Motorola Mobility Spar in Court Over Phone Patents
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-20T19:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/apple-motorola-mobility-spar-in-court-over-phone-patents.html
An  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  attorney urged a judge
to order Motorola Mobility to redesign elements of its
smartphones because they may infringe patents owned by the
iPhone maker.  The lawyer, Matthew Powers, told U.S. Circuit Judge Richard A. Posner in  Chicago  today that his client isn’t interested in
royalty payments as remedy for infringement by Motorola, a unit
of  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Nor is Apple trying to block the sales of the
Motorola Mobility phones, he said.  “We’re not saying, ‘Block all sales,’” Powers said.
“We’re saying, ‘Don’t infringe.’”  He proposed that Posner issue an order compelling Motorola
Mobility to stop infringing by a specific date.  Apple’s iPhones are the world’s most popular line of mobile
phones, and Google’s Android operating system is the world’s
most-used smartphone platform, according to statistics compiled
by Framingham, Massachusetts-based International Data Corp.  Posner on June 7 canceled what would have been the first
trial between the companies since  Mountain View , California-
based Google completed its $12.5 billion acquisition of Motorola
Mobility last month. The judge rejected monetary-damage theories
proposed by both sides.  Canceled Trial  Apple was expected to argue at the trial that Motorola
Mobility products infringed four of its patents. Motorola would
have pressed its claim on one cellular technology patent.  Posner instead issued an order saying he’d hear arguments
today on whether either smartphone maker was entitled to an
order blocking the other from future infringement.  He heard nearly two hours of argument today without issuing
a decision.  Motorola’s patent is regarded as standard and essential to
the industry, its attorney  David A. Nelson  said, telling the
court any royalties his client receives should be calibrated
according to the patent’s place in the company’s industry-
standard portfolio.  One Motorola expert estimated damages from Apple’s alleged
infringement at $298 million, Posner said.  Powers countered that the Motorola technology, while
patented, is seldom used in practice and accused the company of
“an attempt to derive a benefit from the patent in excess of
its value, which is zero.”  The judge asked Apple’s lawyer why his client prefers time-
limited injunctions for its infringement claims instead of
royalties, saying if Motorola complies, Apple receives nothing.  “We get our patent respected,” said Powers, and the
potential that Motorola’s re-engineering would result in an
inferior product.  A Motorola attorney,  Stephen A. Swedlow , countered that if
a monetary remedy would make Apple whole, then it’s not entitled
to the “extraordinary relief” of an injunction.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Motorola Inc., 1:11-cv-08540,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 