-- Taqa Said to Borrow $1.2 Billion for Morocco Power Plant
-- B y   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2012-06-21T02:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/taqa-s-morocco-thermal-project-said-to-borrow-12-billion-loan.html
Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA) , the
state-controlled power and oil producer known as Taqa, signed a
project finance loan of between $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion
for its Jorf Lasfar thermal power plant in Morocco, according to
four people familiar with the matter.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and  Societe Generale
SA (GLE)  arranged the facility, the people said, asking not to be
identified because the details are private. Japan Bank for
International Cooperation contributed $216 million to be used
for import of equipment from Mitsui & Co.,  Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd. (7011)  and  IHI Corp. (7013) , they said.  Taqa, founded in 2005, owns stakes in businesses that
generate power or produce oil and natural gas in the  Middle
East , North America, the North Sea and India. The Abu Dhabi-
based company has spent $2.25 billion this year, Chief Executive
Officer Carl Sheldon said in May.  “We expect to sign the project financing arrangements very
soon,” Allan Virtanen, an Abu Dhabi-based spokesman at Taqa,
said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg’s questions. He
declined to give further details.  Jorf Lasfar Power Complex is the largest coal-fired power
project in the region and is 100 percent-owned by Taqa, said
Virtanen. The construction contracts were awarded to Mitsui and
Daewoo Engineering & Construction Co. in 2010, he said.  Taqa has the equivalent of $20.8 billion in  outstanding
bonds and loans , including $911 million of 5.62 percent notes
which mature in October, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company’s debt is  rated  A3 by Moody’s Investors
Service, its fourth-lowest investment grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  