-- Arizona’s Homebuilding Revival Sparks Bidding Wars for Workers
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-06-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/arizona-s-homebuilding-revival-sparks-bidding-wars-for-workers.html
While D.J. Hughes hunts for
carpenters to join his team at a Phoenix-area house-framing
company, competitors are tracking down his workers at building
sites and offering them more money.  “Everybody is trying to pull crews from everyone,” said
Hughes, 43, a project manager for J.L. Baugh Construction in
Gold Canyon,  Arizona , who admits to a couple attempts at
poaching framers from rival contractors. “I’ve been doing this
for a quarter of a century and this is the biggest shortage of
skilled laborers I have ever seen.”  After being  decimated  by the housing crash, Arizona’s
builders are now scrounging for workers as demand for new homes
climbs.  Building permits  are at an almost three-year high,
creating a scarcity of framers, roofers and masons, many of whom
moved elsewhere when work dried up. Laws aimed at curbing
illegal immigration only added to the shortage by pushing
experienced laborers out of the state.  Construction jobs, which also include commercial and
government projects, increased 9.3 percent in  May  from a year
earlier to 120,300, the biggest gain of any industry in the
state, according to Arizona’s Office of Employment and
Population Statistics. Nationally, industry employment rose 0.4
percent.  The average hourly wage for construction workers in Arizona
increased to $20.72 from $19.53 a year earlier, according to the
state agency.  Price Plunge  Arizona was among the areas hit hardest by the U.S. housing
crash.  Home prices  in April were down about 47 percent from the
peak in 2006, more than the 31 percent decline nationally, data
from  CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX)  show. The state ranked second in the rate of
foreclosure filings last month, according to  RealtyTrac Inc. 
Building jobs have declined by more than half since 2006.  “The industry is so wound down that it’s hard to flip the
switch on and build as many homes as there is demand right
now,” said Ben Sage, director of the Arizona region for
Metrostudy, a Houston-based firm that tracks new construction.
“The subcontractors are scrambling for workers.”  New-home demand in Phoenix is climbing as cash-wielding
investors elbow out traditional buyers for a dwindling supply of
existing properties. The inventory of previously owned houses
for sale in Phoenix dropped 54 percent in April from a year
earlier, according to a  report  by Michael Orr, director of the
Center for Real Estate Theory and Practice at Arizona State
University’s W.P. Carey School of Business. That helped push the
median price for single-family homes up 25 percent to $140,000.  43% Jump  Purchases of new houses surged 43 percent in April from a
year earlier, according to the report. The median price for new
homes rose 4.6 percent to $207,000.  Reed Porter, chief executive officer of  Trend Homes  in
Gilbert, Arizona, said he expects his company to build 200
houses this year, twice as many as in 2011.  “So far, we’re keeping up with demand,” he said. “If
demand continues to increase, clearly we’d need more skilled
workers.”  While widespread worker shortages are unlikely as the U.S.
 unemployment rate  sits above 8 percent, some local markets may
find themselves in situations similar to Arizona’s biggest city,
according to  David Crowe , chief economist for the  National
Association of Home Builders . Building  permits  nationally
climbed to the highest level since September 2008 in May, the
Commerce Department said yesterday.  Extreme Case  “Phoenix may be an extreme case,” Crowe said. “We may
see this more frequently in other markets as housing recoveries
occur where labor supply is diminished.”  Shares of U.S. homebuilders have  gained  35 percent this
year as earnings improved and orders increased. Homebuilder
 confidence  climbed in June to a five-year high, the National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index showed this week.  “Based on the orders we’re putting forward, and the same
with our peers, employment in this one industry, construction,
which has really been lagging, has got to be growing in the next
few quarters,”  Ara Hovnanian , chief executive officer of
 Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , said on a conference call with
analysts on June 6. His New Jersey-based company, which operates
in 16 states, including Arizona, reported a 52 percent jump in
orders in the three months ended April 30.  “I’d be lying if I didn’t say that we will see pressure on
the labor side around the country,” Hovnanian said.  Closing Offices  In Arizona, single-family home building permits rose 63
percent in April from a year earlier to 1,575, the highest since
July 2009, according to data from the U.S. Census Bureau.  Some builders have shuttered sales offices in less
desirable areas and are concentrating on the most productive
communities because of the shortage of workers, said Orr of
Arizona State.  Companies in the region “are waiting for contracting firms
to hire more people before they take more orders,” he said.
“The lack of skilled labor is holding back the production of
new homes.”  Downtimes of a few days at construction sites are becoming
more common as builders wait for crews to finish other jobs
before starting work, according to Porter of Trend Homes.  The average time to complete a house in the area is four
months, twice as long as it took in February, said Jim Belfiore,
president of market researcher Belfiore Real Estate Consulting
in Phoenix.  “A lot of builders were caught on their heels,” Belfiore
said. “They were caught by surprise with how rapidly the demand
situation turned around.”  Glenn Gittus, who started a framing company in May, four
years after he sold his previous one, said experienced laborers
are hard to find because few locals are entering the trades.  ‘Knife Fight’  Workers who moved into the foreclosure rehabilitation
business are returning to new construction because wages have
jumped about 20 percent during the past couple of months, said
Gittus, a former senior vice president in charge of construction
for Scottsdale, Arizona-based  Meritage Homes Corp. (MTH)   “It’s a knife fight out there trying to get crews,”
Gittus said. “You better hope you have a good relationship with
your crew foremen and treated them right in the past, because
that’s why my guys are knocking on the door.”  Gittus, who wants to add about 30 framers to his 20-person
team, said he’s being careful not to hire too many employees
because the Phoenix area’s “mini boom” is likely to last only
a year or two until investors renting out properties dump them
onto the market. His previous firm had about 350 framers.  Immigration Laws  Laws in Arizona, which depended on workers from Mexico to
assemble many of the houses that sprouted during the boom, will
make it more difficult to lure back skilled immigrants, Magnus
Lofstrom, a policy fellow at the San Francisco-based  Public
Policy Institute of California , said in a telephone interview.  Arizona’s population of unauthorized immigrants aged 18 to
64 fell by about 17 percent as a result of the Legal Arizona
Workers Act, according to a study co-authored by Lofstrom. The
law, which took effect in January 2008, requires companies to
check employees’ legal status with a national verification
database.  A 2010 law, known as  S.B. 1070 , makes it a state crime to
be in the U.S. illegally and requires police officers to check
immigration status when they arrest or stop someone and have
“reasonable suspicion” that the person is undocumented.  In the short term, the  labor shortage  will slow the pace of
construction and push costs higher for homebuilders, according
to Lofstrom. Eventually, wages will rise and workers will move
into the state to fill the jobs, he said.  Refusing Work  Mike Summers, general manager of Top Quality Masonry in
Phoenix, said few workers are willing to endure long hours in
Arizona’s blazing heat. While he’s had success recruiting
laborers from halfway houses, finding tradesmen who are skilled
at building block fences that separate homes has proved
difficult.  “We are turning work away because we can’t man it,” said
Summers, whose business increased 50 percent last month from a
year earlier. “I’m doing some work for a builder who has slabs
there for a framer and it will be seven weeks before they’ll
have a crew on it. Everybody is in the same boat.”  The  Home Builders Association of Central Arizona  is helping
to address the shortage by developing construction programs with
a local vocational-technical school, said Connie Wilhelm, the
group’s president. While the next wave of flooring, painting,
stucco and drywall workers can be taught quickly, framers,
plumbers and electricians will take longer, she said.  “What we are trying to do is solve a long-term problem
because we are in a desirable market,” Wilhelm said.  Hesitant Return  Training takes time. Hughes, the Gold Canyon project
manager, needs crews that are ready to go.  He called three former foremen last month who returned to
 Mexico  four years ago when local construction jobs slowed. He
persuaded one of them to come back. The others, who also have
proper documentation, are hesitant because they don’t like
Arizona’s immigration laws and are worried that the market will
fizzle out, he said.  Hughes also wonders how long the demand for workers will
last.  “It’s busy,” Hughes said. “But everybody still has their
hands behind their back, crossing their fingers that this
continues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  