-- U.S. Stocks Decline With 10-Year Treasuries After Fed
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s ,   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-06-20T23:06:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/asia-stocks-rise-dollar-weakens-before-fed-decision-corn-falls.html
U.S. stocks and 10-year Treasuries
fell after the Federal Reserve cut growth estimates and expanded
its economic stimulus program known as Operation Twist. Oil
tumbled to an eight-month low.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.2 percent to
1,355.69 at 4 p.m. in  New York , paring a drop of as much as 0.9
percent. The yield on 10-year Treasuries increased four basis
points to 1.66 percent, while the rate on 30-year bonds was
almost unchanged at 2.74 percent. Crude slid 2.7 percent to
$81.80 a barrel after U.S. inventories climbed to a 22-year
high. The S&P GSCI Index of commodities fell to the lowest level
since 2010. Spanish and Italian bonds rallied on speculation
European leaders will act to reduce yields.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who said progress in the job
market has slowed, extended the program of replacing short-term
bonds with longer-term debt by $267 billion through the end of
2012, disappointing investors anticipating a more aggressive
approach. Policy makers cut their estimate for U.S. gross
domestic product growth in 2012 to between 1.9 percent and 2.4
percent from 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent.  “The Fed’s goal is to take volatility out of the market,
keep rates low and stable and help  mortgage rates  stay low,”
said Bret Barker, a  money manager  at Los Angeles-based TCW Group
Inc., which manages about $128 billion in assets. “The Fed is
not out of bullets. If things get worse they will act more. This
keeps us afloat for now. The Fed is buying time and trying to
allow the economy to continue to heal.”  Estimates Cut  The continuation of Operation Twist “should put downward
pressure on longer-term  interest rates  and help to make broader
financial conditions more accommodative,” the  Federal Open
Market Committee  said today in a statement at the conclusion of
a two-day meeting in  Washington .  Bernanke said at a news conference after the meeting that
the Fed may take additional steps to spur growth, including
additional asset purchases, if labor markets don’t continue to
improve. U.S. employers added 69,000 jobs in May, the slowest
growth in a year, according to Labor Department figures released
June 1. He also said that access to credit remains a “major
issue” and may be muting the impact of the central bank’s
actions.  “The risk was that if they didn’t do anything, the market
would have thrown up on itself,” saidJason Brady, a managing
director at Thornburg Investment Management in  Santa Fe ,  New
Mexico , who helps oversee about $76 billion.  Economic Safeguard  The S&P 500 had closed higher for four straight days and
reached its highest level since May 10 yesterday amid
speculation policy makers will do more to safeguard the economic
recovery.  Losses today were  led  by utilities, commodity and consumer-
staples companies as eight of the 10 main industry groups in the
S&P 500 retreated. Caterpillar Inc., Verizon Communications Inc.
and McDonald’s Corp. lost at least 1 percent to pace declines in
the largest U.S. companies.  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s largest consumer-goods
company, declined 2.9 percent after  cutting  its earnings and
revenue forecasts for the second time in less than two months as
sales growth slows in Europe and the U.S. Adobe Systems Inc.,
the largest maker of graphic-design software, fell 2.7 percent
as it forecast sales and profit that trailed estimates after it
began selling its products via subscriptions.  Coffee, cocoa, oil and cotton  lost  at least 2.3 percent as
18 of the 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI Index
retreated, sending the gauge down 1.9 percent to the lowest
level on a closing basis since November 2010. Wheat advanced for
a third day as dry weather in Russia damaged crops.  Dollar Strengthens  The dollar rose against eight of 16 major peers and
weakened against the rest. It strengthened 0.8 percent versus
the yen, while slipping 0.1 percent to trade at $1.2703 against
the euro.  The announcement from the Fed today came as the original
Operation Twist was set to expire this month. In Operation
Twist, the central bank sells short-term securities and buys the
same amount of longer-term debt to lengthen the average maturity
of its holdings and keep borrowing costs low.  Prior stimulus efforts by the Fed, including two rounds of
quantitative easing through asset purchases known on  Wall Street 
as QE1 and QE2, helped the S&P 500  double  from its bear-market
low in 2009 while Treasury yields reached the lowest on record
amid demand for safety amid Europe’s debt crisis.  Stocks, Bonds  Ten-year yields have increased from their record of 1.4387
percent on June 1, the day the S&P 500 began a rebound after a
9.9 percent retreat from a four-year high on April 2. The  stock
index  rallied after its valuation slid to 12.9 times its
companies’ reported earnings, the cheapest since November.  A valuation measure showed U.S. 10-year notes have declined
from the most expensive levels ever. The  term premium , a model
created by economists at the Fed, reached a record of negative
0.94 percent on June 1 as investors sought refuge from Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value. The average
over the past decade is 0.50 percent.  Almost four rose for each that fell in the  Stoxx Europe 600
Index. (SXXP)  Aer Lingus Group Plc jumped 15 percent in Dublin trading
as Ryanair Holdings Plc revived its push to purchase the airline
with an offer valuing the company at 694 million euros ($883
million). Hennes & Mauritz AB rose 4.8 percent after earnings
topped forecasts. Unilever NV declined 0.8 percent after P&G’s
forecast.  European Crisis  French President  Francois Hollande  said European leaders
are exploring ways for the rescue fund to buy debt from
countries that have taken fiscal consolidation measures. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  declined to commit to direct sovereign
debt purchases through the euro-area bailout fund, pushing back
on calls by euro-region leaders who backed the measure as a way
to ease the crisis.  Such a move, while legally possible, “is not up for
debate” at present, Merkel said today in Berlin. Just back in
Berlin following the Group of 20 summit in Los Cabos,  Mexico ,
Merkel said: “I haven’t heard about such things.” In  Greece ,
Antonis Samaras, head of Greece’s New Democracy party, was sworn
in as prime minister after Greek political leaders agreed on a
coalition that will seek relief from austerity measures tied to
international loans.  ‘Only Talk’  Spain’s 10-year bond  yield  sank 30 basis points to 6.74
percent after rising above 7 percent this week for the first
time in the history of the euro. Its two-year note yield fell 28
basis points to 5.02 percent. Italy’s 10-year yield slipped 15
basis points to 5.77 percent. Hollande said “we’re looking at
the ways and means” to use the European Stability Mechanism,
the euro region’s bailout fund, to buy bonds.  “There’s some talk about the ESM buying Spanish and
Italian bonds and it looks like it’s going to be discussed at a
European level,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed debt
markets at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “That is giving Italy and
Spain a short-term boost but it’s only talk at the moment,
there’s nothing concrete.”  The yield on the German 10-year bund rose eight basis
points to 1.62 percent and the two-year note yield added six
basis points to 0.15 percent. Germany sold 4.005 billion euros
($5.09 billion) of two-year notes at an average yield of 0.10
percent.  The  New Zealand dollar  weakened against all 16 major peers
after a report showed the nation’s current-account deficit
widened more than economists estimated.  Japan’s Topix rallied 1.7 percent to the highest since May
15 after exports beat estimates.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.5 percent to its
highest level since May 14. The Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index of Chinese companies listed in Hong Kong rose 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  