-- Asian Stocks Advance as G20 Pledges Support, Fed Meets
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-06-20T10:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/asian-stocks-advance-amid-fed-china-stimulus-speculation.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the regional
benchmark index heading for its highest close in a month, amid
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will expand stimulus measures
and after the Group of 20 leaders pledged to support economic
growth and help overcome  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s biggest exporter of consumer
electronics, gained 3.5 percent after the country’s overseas
shipments rose more than expected. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust
Holdings Inc. jumped 4.3 percent after the Japanese bank said it
plans to boost overseas loans this year. Consolidated Media
Holdings Ltd. surged 9.7 percent in Sydney after  News Corp .
offered to buy Australia’s largest pay television network for
A$2 billion ($2 billion).  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  climbed 1 percent to 116.95 as
of 7:58 p.m. in  Tokyo , set for its highest close since May 15.
About three shares rose for each that fell on the gauge. More
than $5 trillion has been erased from global equities since
March amid slowing economic growth in the U.S. and  China , and a
spreading European crisis that pushed Spain’s borrowing costs to
a record.  “There will be more measures taken by central banks to
stimulate the economy,” said  Daphne Roth , Singapore-based head
of Asian equity research at ABN Amro Private Banking, where she
helps oversee about $207 billion. “China also has more
flexibility to ease monetary and fiscal policy.”  With contagion from Europe’s crisis rippling through the
world economy, participants at the G-20 summit in  Mexico  backed
measures to spur growth and cut budgets in Europe.  Trade Gap  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  advanced 1.1 percent after
exports climbed 10 percent from a year earlier, according to
data released by the  Finance Ministry  in Tokyo today. Imports
increased 9.3 percent and the country reported a wider trade
deficit in May than economists predicted as nuclear-plant
shutdowns pushed up energy purchases from abroad.  “I did not expect that exports are this strong given the
current world economic situation,” said Takao Goto, a market
analyst at SBI Securities Co., Japan’s biggest online brokerage.
“This is positive news for the market.”  Sony climbed 3.5 percent to 1,103 yen. Toyota Motor Co.,
the world’s biggest carmaker by market value, rose 1.2 percent
to 3,050 yen.  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , Japan’s largest appliance maker,
increased 3.1 percent to 602 yen.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.2 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi Index added 0.7 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng
Index increased 0.5 percent, while China’s Shanghai Composite
Index lost 0.3 percent. Trading volumes were below the 30-day
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The gauge advanced 1 percent yesterday and closed
at its highest level in more than a month as analysts at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Jefferies & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. speculated the U.S. Fed will move to spur growth.  Operation Twist  Signs of slowing growth amid Europe’s debt crisis could
mean the Fed, which began a two-day meeting yesterday, will
extend its so-called Operation Twist, according to JPMorgan and
Jefferies. The program involves selling short-term debt and
buying longer-term bonds.  Exporters to the U.S. advanced. Li & Fung Ltd., a supplier
of toys and clothes to Wal-Mart Stores Inc., rose 1.9 percent to
HK$15.76 in Hong Kong.  James Hardie Industries SE (JHX) , a building
materials supplier that counts the U.S. as its biggest market,
gained 0.8 percent to A$7.77 in Sydney.  Sumitomo Mitsui Trust climbed 4.3 percent to 221 yen in
Tokyo. Japan’s fourth-biggest bank by market value is targeting
900 billion yen ($11.4 billion) in new overseas loans this year
as it buys assets of European lenders and provides credit for
infrastructure in  Asia , Shigeki Tanaka, general manager of
wholesale business planning, said in an interview on June 18.  Consolidated Media  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 10 percent through
yesterday from this year’s highest level in February amid signs
economic growth was slowing as Europe struggled to contain its
debt crisis. This left the gauge trading at 1.1 times book
value, compared with 2.1 times for the S&P 500 and 1.4 times for
the Stoxx 600, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A number
below one means companies can be bought for less than value of
their assets.  Consolidated Media jumped 9.7 percent to A$3.38 in Sydney.
News Ltd., the Australian unit of the media company controlled
by  Rupert Murdoch , offered to buy shares in the owner of pay-TV
network Foxtel and Fox Sports at A$3.50 each, 14 percent more
than yesterday’s closing price. The deal is subject to approval
by regulators and both companies’ boards.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  