-- Assange Faces New U.K. Arrest for Breaching Bail in Asylum Bid
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-06-20T11:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/assange-faces-new-u-k-arrest-for-breaching-bail-in-asylum-bid.html
Julian Assange, founder of the anti-
secrecy website WikiLeaks, faces arrest again in Britain after
he breached the terms of his bail agreement by staying overnight
at the Ecuadorian embassy, where he sought asylum.  Assange, who seeks to avoid extradition to  Sweden  on claims
of rape and sexual molestation of two women, sought asylum in
 Ecuador ’s embassy in London yesterday. He says the case is
actually a U.S. effort to punish him for releasing diplomatic
and military communications through his WikiLeaks website.  Assange has been required for the past 18 months to remain
at his bail address from 10 p.m. to 8 a.m. “He is now subject
to arrest under the Bail Act for breach of these conditions,”
the  Metropolitan Police Service  said today in an e-mailed
statement.  The claims against Assange, an Australian, became public
around the same time he posted classified U.S. cables on the
 WikiLeaks website , creating controversy for U.S. President
 Barack Obama ’s administration. Assange denies the allegations
and argues Sweden fabricated the arrest warrant to assist the
U.S. in punishing him for the breach.  Assange lost his appeal to avoid extradition after the U.K.
Supreme Court ruled May 30 that the arrest warrant had been
issued properly by Sweden. Assange had argued the warrant was
invalid because it was issued by a prosecutor instead of a
judge.  Assange, arrested in London in December 2010, was
considering an appeal to the  European Court  of  Human Rights 
before he sought asylum.  Assange is accused of failing to use a condom with one of
the women and having sex with the other while she was asleep.
The women, both supporters of WikiLeaks, let Assange stay at
their homes during a speaking tour in Sweden in 2010. The U.K.
Court of Appeal ruled in November that he should return to
Sweden to face the claims. He hasn’t been charged with a crime.  Gareth Peirce, Assange’s lawyer, didn’t immediately return
a call to her office today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  