-- Assange Will Likely Lose Asylum Bid, Go to Jail, Lawyers Say
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-06-20T17:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/assange-will-likely-lose-asylum-bid-go-to-jail-lawyers-say.html
Julian Assange, founder of the anti-
secrecy website WikiLeaks, will probably lose his bid for asylum
from  Ecuador  and end up in an English jail for breaking the
terms of his bail during an extradition fight, U.K. lawyers say.  Ecuador will seek to protect its relationship with Britain
and the European Union by rejecting Assange’s bid, said  Peter
Watson , a lawyer with Allen & Overy LLP in London who isn’t
involved in the case. Assange will then be arrested, lose the
bail money put up by his supporters and be jailed until he’s
extradited to  Sweden  on rape claims, Watson said.  “Seeking political asylum following an open, public trial
and an appeal to the highest court in the land is essentially
saying the U.K. court system stinks,” Watson said. “That would
be a very difficult position for Ecuador, because of the
ramifications on its international relationships, not just with
the U.K., but with Europe and the U.S.”  The claims against Assange, an Australian, became public
around the same time he posted classified U.S. military and
diplomatic cables on the  WikiLeaks website , creating controversy
for U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s administration. Assange denies
the rape allegations and argues Sweden fabricated the arrest
warrant to assist the U.S. in punishing him for the breach.  “My guess is they won’t follow through with it,” Dan
Hyde, a lawyer at Cubism Law in London, said in an interview
about Ecuador’s forthcoming decision. “But even if they did, I
don’t see how, pragmatically, he is going leave this country --
he doesn’t have diplomatic immunity.”  ‘How Long?’  Assange breached his bail by staying overnight at the
Ecuadorian embassy in London, where he sought asylum yesterday,
the  Metropolitan Police Service  said in an e-mailed statement.
Assange has been required for the past 18 months to remain at
his bail address from 10 p.m. to 8 a.m.  “How long can he be holed up in there?” Hyde said. “He
can’t stay there forever.”  Nine friends and supporters of Assange, including
journalist and documentary filmmaker John Pilger and celebrity
 Jemima Khan , may lose money they put up as part of the more than
200,000 pounds ($314,800) in guaranties posted as part of his
bail conditions in December 2010.  Gareth Peirce, Assange’s lawyer in London, didn’t
immediately return a call to her office today on the asylum bid.  Ecuador is studying the request and is in contact with the
U.K. government, the Andean country’s Foreign Minister Ricardo Patino told reporters in a brief statement in  Quito .  Wrist Slap  If Ecuador refuses his request, Assange will likely be
arrested and go before a judge, Watson said. Assange would face
penalties ranging from a “slap on the wrist” to being jailed
pending extradition, he said.  Assange, first arrested in London in December 2010, lost
his appeal to avoid extradition after the U.K. Supreme Court
ruled May 30 that the arrest warrant had been issued properly by
Sweden. Assange had argued the warrant was invalid because it
was issued by a prosecutor instead of a judge.  Assange was considering an appeal to the  European Court  of
 Human Rights  before he sought asylum. His latest move suggests
he received legal advice that a challenge at the court in
Strasbourg,  France , would be “hopeless,” Watson said.  “It’s a rather curious thing to do, because he would have
had protection from extradition while the appeal with the human-
rights court was underway,” Watson said.  Assange is accused of failing to use a condom with one of
the women and having sex with the other while she was asleep.
The women, both supporters of WikiLeaks, let Assange stay at
their homes during a speaking tour in Sweden in 2010. The U.K.
Court of Appeal ruled in November that he should return to
Sweden to face the allegations. He hasn’t been charged with a
crime.  The asylum bid is a “delay” tactic that won’t prevent
Assange from being sent to Sweden “sooner or later,” Claes
Borgstrom, who represents the alleged victims, said in an e-
mailed statement.  “I am not surprised that Assange once again is trying to
stop the extradition, but I could never have guessed his method
this time,” Borgstrom said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  