-- AuRico Gold CEO Says It Will Be ‘Opportunistic’ in M&A
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-06-20T18:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/aurico-gold-ceo-says-it-will-be-opportunistic-in-m-a.html
AuRico Gold Inc. (AUQ) , the Canadian miner
that bought Northgate Minerals Corp. for C$1.34 billion ($1.32
billion) in October, said it’s focused on its existing assets
and will be “opportunistic” in considering further deals after
gold-asset valuations fell.  “There are a lot of great things out there right now that
are trading at all-time lows,” Chief Executive Officer Rene Marion said in a June 18 interview. “If someone goes into play
then we will sharpen our pencil to see if there’s an accretive
way of doing a transaction.”  Marion said that while Toronto-based AuRico isn’t actively
looking for deals, it watches for opportunities. The CEO said he
expects mergers and acquisitions in the industry will accelerate
because gold stocks are trading more cheaply while new mines are
becoming more expensive to build.  Gold prices have risen for 11 straight years while
companies in the 59-member S&P/TSX Global Gold Sector Index
trade at about  15 times  reported earnings, compared with a five-
year average multiple of 39. The index has fallen 9.6 percent
this year, while gold futures in  New York  have gained 3 percent.  AuRico fell 1.4 percent to C$8.60 at 2:31 p.m. in Toronto.
It has gained 5 percent in 2012.  Marion, 49, said his focus for now is on finishing the
startup of the Young-Davidson mine in Ontario and increasing the
company’s share price. AuRico also is studying the potential for
a new mine at its Kemess site in British Columbia.  Rising Output  AuRico would only consider buying gold assets in  North
America  with the potential to produce at least about 100,000
ounces a year with relatively low operating costs, Marion said.
AuRico acquired Young-Davidson last year when it bought
Northgate.  “We had been following Northgate for two years and we had
our own financial model and development plan for Young-
Davidson,” Marion said. “We waited and when they went into
play we felt pretty confident that it was time to act.”  AuRico also operates mines in  Mexico  and forecasts
production this year of 323,000 to 363,000 so-called gold
equivalent ounces, a measure that includes silver output. It
expects to produce about 600,000 gold equivalent ounces by 2016.
Most of the extra output will be from Young-Davidson, which is
expected to reach commercial production in August, Marion said.  The company, which is selling its El Cubo mine in Mexico to
 Endeavour Silver Corp. (EDR) , will complete a feasibility study on an
underground mine at Kemess in the first quarter of 2013. It may
build the mine and obtain some funds from  Asia  in return for an
offtake agreement, fund the whole development itself, or
possibly sell the asset, depending on the results of the study,
Marion said.  Construction Costs  Gold-mining companies are becoming more cautious about
large projects amid rising costs for labor, raw-materials and
equipment, he said.  AuRico probably won’t take on a big unfunded development
project it doesn’t already own because of the risk of rising
construction costs, he said.  “I think investors are going to rerate specific
companies,” Marion said. “It’s going to be companies that do
what they say they are going to do, that have minimal capex
overruns and that are sustainable low-cost producers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  