-- Aussie Dollar Drops, Kiwi Pares Gain as Stocks Decline
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2012-06-21T06:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/aussie-n-z-dollars-near-7-week-highs-on-stimulus-speculation.html
Australia’s dollar slid and New
Zealand’s pared an earlier gain as Asian stocks declined and
Chinese data added to signs the global growth is slowing,
damping investor appetite for higher-yielding assets.  The so-called Aussie and kiwi fell from seven-week highs as
a report signaled Chinese manufacturing may shrink for an eighth
month and  commodities  dropped to the lowest level since 2010.
The Federal Reserve yesterday decided to not implement more
asset purchases and lowered growth forecasts. The  New Zealand
dollar  rose earlier after a government report showed the
nation’s economy was accelerating.  The Australian and New Zealand currencies “have been
undermined on the day by the weakness in regional equity
markets,” said  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney. “It looks as though Asia was
more disappointed than the U.S. equity market that the Fed
didn’t take stronger action. It’s certainly spilling over to
both Aussie and kiwi.”  The Australian dollar dropped 0.3 percent to $1.0162 as of
4 p.m. in Sydney. It climbed to as high as $1.0224 yesterday,
the strongest level since May 4. New Zealand’s currency rose 0.2
percent to 79.80 U.S. cents after earlier touching 80.17, also
the highest since May 4.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares declined 0.6 percent
and the S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw materials lost 0.9 percent.  China Manufacturing  The 48.1 preliminary reading for a purchasing managers’
index in China released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics today compares with a final 48.4 for May. A reading
below 50 indicates contraction. If confirmed on July 2, it would
equal the run of below-50 readings from August 2008 to March
2009. The nation is Australia’s biggest trading partner and New
Zealand’s second-largest export destination.  “The China PMI numbers fit in line with the trend that
we’ve seen from data for some time now,” said  Todd Elmer , head
of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy for  Asia  excluding
 Japan  at Citigroup Inc. in  Singapore . “The market had been
buying back risk over the past several weeks, so it looks like
they weren’t well positioned for a weaker number.”  U.S. policy makers yesterday chose not to announce a third
round of asset purchases, or quantitative easing, opting instead
to prolong its so-called Operation Twist through the end of this
year. The program aims to hold down borrowing costs by extending
the maturity of assets held by the Fed. The U.S. central bank
has already bought $2.3 trillion of assets in two rounds of
quantitative easing.  Fed Policy  The Fed also cut its estimate for growth in 2012 to 1.9
percent to 2.4 percent from 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent in April.
Officials forecast the jobless rate will average 8 percent to
8.2 percent in the fourth quarter of this year versus an
estimate of 7.8 to 8 percent in April.  In  Europe , finance ministers are set to meet in Luxembourg
to discuss the region’s financial woes. Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  will host a meeting with his German, French and
Spanish counterparts tomorrow in Rome.  “The markets are very mixed and they’re waiting for the
next installment of the news from Europe,” said Emma Lawson, a
Sydney-based currency strategist at  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) 
Investors are also hoping that the Fed, the  Bank of England  and
the  Bank of Japan (8301)  will implement further quantitative easing,
she said.  New Zealand’s economy grew at the fastest pace in five
years last quarter as food manufacturing and farm production
increased, a report today showed. Gross domestic product rose
1.1 percent in the three months ended March 31 from the previous
quarter, when it expanded a revised 0.4 percent,  Statistics New
Zealand  said.  Australian  bonds  pared an earlier decline, with the yield
on the 10-year note at 3.14 percent from 3.13 percent yesterday.
New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, climbed seven basis points to 2.79
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  