-- Bachelet Says Chile Needs Rules to Boost Women Lawmakers
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-06-20T14:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/bachelet-says-chile-needs-rules-to-boost-women-lawmakers.html
Chile  should bring in “transitional
measures” to boost the number of female lawmakers, said former
President  Michelle Bachelet , who heads the United Nations body
charged with empowering women.  Citing the examples of Ecuador and  Tunisia , where parties
are required to provide electoral lists that alternate male and
female candidates, Bachelet said Chile and nations elsewhere in
 Latin America  should use temporary measures like that to ensure
more women are elected to parliament.  “Chile needs special transitional measures that will
increase women’s political participation,” Bachelet said in an
interview in Rio de Janeiro, where she’s attending the UN’s
Rio+20 conference on sustainable development. “If we really
want more female participation in politics, you need to ensure
that electoral laws are the right ones.”  Worldwide, fewer than one in five lawmakers are women, and
there are 17 or 18 female heads of state out of the UN’s 194
members, according to Bachelet. She served as Chile’s first
female president from 2006 to 2010 and ensured her 22-member
cabinet was split evenly between the sexes. About 14 percent of
Chilean lawmakers are women, according to the UN.  She declined to comment on whether she would stand again
for the Chilean presidency, saying only that she’s “fully
dedicated to  UN Women .”  Bachelet also said that women bring a different perspective
to decision-making, and parliaments with more female lawmakers
tend to pass more laws on social and environmental issues.
Measures to boost their participation in parliament should only
be long enough to eliminate inequality, she said.  Barriers to Women  “Democracy is not only about voting, it’s about being
elected,” Bachelet said. “If we want to unleash the full
potential of humanity, women’s potential should also be
unleashed.”  One of the biggest barriers to women in politics is their
traditional role as caregivers and public attitudes to women in
the public sphere, according to the UN diplomat.  “In the majority of countries, the economy of care is the
biggest obstacle: care for children, care for the disabled, care
for the elderly falls on women’s shoulders,” Bachelet said.
“Women have to make very difficult choices between the family
and the public sphere -- professional work and politics. Usually
they are punished by society and criticized if they abandon the
family and are dedicated to public affairs.”  About 50,000 delegates from 190 nations are expected to
attend the Rio+20 meeting, marking 20 years since the first
Earth Summit in the city. Leaders from 130 nations are set to
rubber-stamp 49 pages of recommendations charting a path to cut
poverty while promoting growth and protecting the environment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  Rio de Janeiro  at  amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg via at  landberg@bloomberg.net . 