-- Banks Face $15 Billion Demand on Spain Downgrade: Credit Markets
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-06-20T16:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/banks-face-15-billion-demand-on-spain-downgrade-credit-markets.html
Spanish lenders face the prospect of
needing as much as 12 billion euros ($15 billion) of extra
collateral for their  central bank loans , raising pressure on the
banks as they negotiate a 100 billion-euro bailout.  The additional security will be required on about 245
billion euros of sovereign and government-guaranteed debt
pledged by Spanish banks should  DBRS Inc.  become the fourth
ratings company to downgrade the nation to the cusp of junk,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Bonds of  Banco Santander  SA
and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  are the worst performers
in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch EMU Financial Corporate
Index this month.  The  European Central Bank  will demand deeper discounts on
Spanish debt should DBRS cut its A High rating to match grades
from Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings, according to JPMorgan. Spain is seeking a rescue for
its banks after they were shut out of credit markets amid
concern bad loans will escalate as the recession deepens.  “People are already asking if the 100 billion-euro bailout
will be enough for their needs, and having to raise another 12
billion won’t help,” said Olly Burrows, a London-based credit
analyst at Rabobank International. “It’s too much pressure on
Spanish banks that are already squeezed.”  Implied Rating  The cost of insuring against default on Spanish government
debt implies a rating three grades below junk, according to
Moody’s Analytics.  Credit-default swaps on the nation surged to a record 633
basis points on June 18, implying a 40 percent chance of default
within five years, up from 352 basis points on Feb. 8, according
to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts fell back to 590
basis points today.  As  Spain ’s creditworthiness deteriorates, bondholders are
speculating they’ll be subordinated to European Union agencies
demanding priority repayment for supplying aid to the nation.
Lenders to  Greece  lost more than 70 percent of their investments
when the nation restructured its debts in April, while the ECB
and other official lenders were exempt from the discounts.  Default swaps on Banco Santander, the biggest Spanish bank,
were at 437 basis points today, Bloomberg data show. That’s
approaching the record 474 basis points in November before the
ECB flooded markets with 1 trillion euros of cheap cash under
its longer-term refinancing operations. Contracts on BBVA were
at 469, compared with a record 516 in May.  ‘Facing Challenges’  “Spain is facing several challenges, including the
increase in its public debt from the announced bank
recapitalization package and stresses in economy-wide funding
conditions, which can affect the depth of the recession,” Pedro Auger, an analyst at DBRS in  New York , said in an e-mail. “In
our assessment, we stress the risks to the public debt burden.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. declined, with the
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors
use to hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
declining by 0.37 basis point to a mid-price of 115.1 basis
points as of 12:02 p.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s the lowest level on an intra-day basis since May 22
for the index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Pemex Bonds  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, rose 0.12 basis point to 24.75 basis points
as of 12 p.m. in New York. The gauge widens when investors seek
the perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows when
they favor assets such as corporate bonds.  Bonds of Mexico City-based Petroleos Mexicanos, or Pemex,
are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, with 150 trades of $1 million or
more as of 12:01 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Latin America ’s largest oil producer sold $1.75
billion of 32-year debt yesterday.  The ECB applies discounts of 0.5 percent to 5.5 percent to
government fixed-rate bonds with the seven highest investment-
grade ratings, according to the Frankfurt-based central bank’s
website. That rises to as much as 10.5 percent when the
securities are cut to the three lowest investment-grade
rankings.  Spanish Downgrade  Moody’s downgraded Spain to Baa3 on June 13, a week after
Fitch cut the nation to BBB, two levels above junk. S&P lowered
its rating on the country to BBB+, three steps above speculative
grade, in April. DBRS has had Spain at A High, its fifth-highest
investment grade, since May.  Junk bonds  are rated below BBB- by
Fitch and BBB Low by DBRS.  The extra collateral requirement may total 13 billion
euros, according to Harvinder Sian, senior rates strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London .  “Some weak Spanish banks may have a problem if DBRS cut
Spain to the BBB area,” Sian said. “The extra haircut may come
on top of the hit to mark-to-market margins that Spanish banks
already face on their holding of country’s debt.”  The banks were able to borrow through the ECB’s LTRO
facilities at 1 percent and invest the proceeds in Spanish two-
year  bonds  that yielded 3.65 percent on Dec. 22 and 2.19 percent
on March 1. Those notes have since fallen in value and were
yielding 5.1 percent today.  Weakening Economy  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  bonds declined 0.56 percent this month
through June 18 and BBVA’s debt fell 0.46 percent, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Financial Corporate Index,
compared with an increase of 0.34 percent for the gauge as a
whole.  Credit-default swaps on BBVA exceeds the average cost of
insuring  Europe ’s 13 biggest banks by 178 basis points, near the
record 185 set last month, and contracts on Banco Santander are
143 basis points more than the average, Bloomberg data show. The
difference between both Spanish banks and the 13-bank average
was about 40 basis points in January.  LCH Clearnet Ltd., Europe’s biggest clearing house, raised
the extra deposit it takes from clients to trade most Spanish
 government bonds . The margin needed for securities due in 10
years to 15 years will be increased to 14.7 percent from 13.6
percent, according to a statement on LCH Clearnet’s website
yesterday. The rate was also boosted on all Spanish debt due
from zero months through seven years.  Spanish lenders’ net borrowings from the ECB jumped to a
record 287.8 billion euros in May, the Bank of Spain said on its
website June 14. Gross borrowing was 324.6 billion euros in May,
up from 316.9 billion euros in April.  IMF Report  The  International Monetary Fund  said in a report on June 8
that Spain’s lenders needed at least 37 billion euros to cope
with the weakening economy. Three days later, the country asked
for a 100 billion-euro  credit line  to shore up its banking
system and provide a cushion against future shocks.  “A downgrade won’t help the banks with their liquidity,”
said  Hank Calenti , London-based, head of bank credit research at
Societe Generale SA. “The higher the pledged levels, the lower
the unencumbered assets for senior, unsecured bondholders.”  The ECB may consider loosening collateral rules to avoid
making the credit crisis worse, said Sebastian Paris-Horvitz,
chief market strategist at HSBC Private Bank Suisse in Paris.  “You cannot stop funding Spanish banks -- they are too big
to fail,” said Paris-Horvitz. “The ECB will need to ease the
rules, any other strategy appears a quite risky road.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  