-- Bank of England Allots 5 Billion Pounds in New ECTR Auction
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-06-20T11:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/bank-of-england-allots-5-billion-pounds-in-first-ectr-auction.html
The  Bank of England  said it alloted
the full amount offered in the first of its new sterling
liquidity auctions.  The central bank in  London  alloted 5 billion pounds ($7.9
billion) at a clearing spread of 25 basis points above its
benchmark rate, currently at 0.5 percent. It didn’t provide any
further details of the auction.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said last week the
auction facility would be activated, along with a new plan to
stoke bank lending in the U.K., to counter a “black cloud”
from  Europe . Minutes of this month’s monetary-policy decision
showed he was outvoted in a bid to increase bond purchases as a
majority of the Monetary Policy Committee voted for no change.  “The key on the ECTR was proving that the facility can be
used, so, mission accomplished,” said Richard Barwell, an
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London and a
former central bank official. “Banks can get funds at a cheap
price if they need it in a crisis. Job done.”  The sterling  Libor-OIS spread , a gauge of banks’ reluctance
to lend, fell to 49.2 basis points today from 54.1 basis points
yesterday, according to the British Bankers’ Association. The
spread has fallen from 60.4 basis points on Jan. 10.  Liquidity Pool  Paul Fisher , markets director at the central bank, said in
March enough collateral had been pre-assessed to create a
“substantial” pool of liquidity ready to lend to institutions
through its discount window. The pool of securities had reached
265 billion pounds, he said in a March 29 speech, giving the
bank scope to lend about 160 billion pounds without having to
conduct further “detailed collateral checks.”  The Extended Collateral Term Repo operation was announced
in December to address potential market strains and mitigate
risks to financial stability stemming from a liquidity shortage.
The facility, introduced at a time when the central bank
considered the supply of liquidity was adequate, lends against
the widest range of collateral to ensure that banks have access
to enough sterling to meet unexpected shocks.  The auction “doesn’t signal large stresses in the banking
system -- if the spread had been bigger it would have been a
sign they were more desperate” for liquidity, said  Jens Larsen ,
chief European economist at  RBC Capital Markets  in London and a
former central bank official. “They haven’t given us much
information so the signal from this is limited.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  