-- Bernanke Says Volcker Rule Would Have Influenced JPMorgan Loss
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-06-20T20:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/bernanke-says-volcker-rule-would-have-influenced-jpmorgan-loss.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the Volcker Rule may have been able to influence
the outcome of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s $2 billion trading loss.  Bernanke said documentation of a trade’s rationale, an
auditing process, governance rules and compensation limits that
are part of the proposed Volcker Rule may have played a role in
changing the result at the largest U.S. bank. The legislation
aims to limit proprietary trading while allowing exemptions for
market-making and hedging.  One relevant feature of the rule “would have been the
control of governance aspects,” Bernanke said today at a news
conference. “That might have potentially changed the outcome.”  Five banking regulators, including the Fed and the Treasury
Department’s Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, are
finalizing the Volcker Rule. Regulators have struggled with
whether JPMorgan’s trade would have been allowed under the
proposal’s exemption for portfolio trading.  JPMorgan has been under tougher regulatory scrutiny since
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said May 10 that the firm’s
chief investment office suffered the loss. He later called it
“a Risk 101 mistake.” Regulator probes began after traders in
the London office, which manages the bank’s excess cash, made
wrong-way bets on illiquid  credit derivatives .  The Fed, as the regulator of bank holding companies, is
helping oversee JPMorgan’s efforts to manage and eliminate risk
from its portfolio. The Fed is looking at other parts of the
bank’s holding company to determine if governance, risk
management and control weaknesses are present elsewhere, Federal
Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said in a June 6 Senate Banking
Committee testimony.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  