-- BIDV Delays Debut on Vietnam Market Slump: Southeast Asia
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-21T02:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/bidv-delays-debut-on-vietnam-stock-market-slump-southeast-asia.html
Bank for Investment and Development
of  Vietnam , the country’s second-largest lender, said it will
delay a planned trading debut until the third quarter after a
slide in the benchmark VN Index.  BIDV, as the lender is known, sold a 3 percent stake in an
initial public offering in December and had planned to begin
trading on the Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange on June 26. The
stock will debut by Sept. 30, BIDV Deputy General Director Pham Quang Tung said in an interview June 19. Vietnam allows
companies to delay listings for as long as a year after IPOs.  “Stock-market conditions are still not very favorable, so
listing at this time may negatively affect the stock value as
well as hurt shareholders and investors,” Tung said. “We
expect the trend in the market will be clearer in the third
quarter, and will recover well in the second half.”  Vietnam’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  has lost 12 percent from its May 8 peak
on concern the benefits of four interest-rate cuts by the State
Bank of Vietnam since March will take time to materialize. The
reductions may not begin to take effect until the third quarter,
Deepak Mishra, the  World Bank ’s head economist for Vietnam, said
on May 28. Companies including Graff Diamonds Corp., Vietnam
Airlines Corp., Formula One and Manchester United Ltd. have
shelved or postponed planned IPOs in  Asia  this year amid equity-
market volatility.  Rate Cuts  Vietnam’s central bank has cut refinancing, discount and
repurchase rates by one percentage point every month since March
to spur growth after the economy expanded at the slowest pace
since 2009 and earnings at the  303 companies  on the VN Index
sank 12 percent in the first quarter. Still, the VN Index is up
23 percent this year, making it Asia’s best performer. The gauge
dropped 0.4 percent to 431.15 at 9:28 a.m. local time.  BIDV raised 1.58 trillion dong ($75.5 million) selling 84.8
million shares at an average price of 18,583 dong in its IPO in
December. The bank registered last month to list all of its 2.3
billion outstanding shares on the country’s main bourse, 97
percent of which will be restricted, Tung said. It expects the
stock to begin trading at least 150 percent higher than its IPO
price, he said. That would be about 27,800 dong.  Investors are “still cautious and looking for improvement
in corporate earnings before turning bullish on Vietnam,”
 Attila Vajda , a broker at ACB Securities Ltd., the country’s
third-largest brokerage, said in an interview on June 18. “The
market is not at its best now, so they should list after the
second-quarter and third-quarter earnings come out, because
those should be better than the first quarter.”  Companies have to release earnings within 20 days of the
end of each quarter, Vajda said.  Slowing Growth  Gross domestic product grew 4 percent in the first quarter,
the slowest since 2009. The economy is forecast to expand 5.2
percent to 5.5 percent this year, Deputy Minister of Planning &
Investment Cao Viet Sinh said in an interview this month.  The nation’s stocks may rally in the second half as
companies take advantage of lower borrowing costs, Alan T. Pham,
chief economist at VinaCapital Group, said in an interview last
week. Lending rates may fall to about 13 percent by the third
and fourth quarters, from as high as 18.5 percent now, he said.  The deposit cap was cut to 9 percent from 11 percent on
June 11, giving banks more room to lower funding costs.  “Macro signals will turn into specific numbers in the
third quarter,” BIDV’s Tung said. “We expect  interest rates  to
fall further to a reasonable level for businesses to expand
operations.”  The government will succeed in curbing inflation to less
than 10 percent this year, he said.  Foreign Investment  Vietnam’s inflation slowed to 8.34 percent in May from a
peak of 23.02 percent in August 2011, according to data from the
General Statistic Office in Hanoi.  State Bank of Vietnam Governor Nguyen Van Binh said last
week that the country wants to “draw more foreign investment to
the banking sector” and will consider raising the foreign-
ownership cap on a case-by-case basis before finalizing new
rules. The government is considering raising the cap for some
local banks, Le Minh Hung, deputy governor of the  State Bank  of
Vietnam said May 29. Foreigners can currently own a combined 30
percent of a bank’s registered capital.  “We think that competitiveness among banks will be more
severe, especially when foreign banks are able to increase their
participation,” Tung said.  Rating Outlook  BIDV’s total assets will rise 10 percent from the beginning
of this year to 455 trillion dong by June 30, Tung said. Total
outstanding loans may rise 12 percent to 310 trillion dong and
total deposits expand 12 percent to 319 trillion, he said.  Standard & Poor’s  revised the outlook on BIDV’s credit
rating to stable from negative this month.  Since July 2011, companies have to commit to list shares on
an exchange within one year of an IPO, Nguyen Son, head of
market development at the country’s State Securities Commission,
said by phone yesterday.  Joint-Stock Bank for Foreign Trade of Vietnam  shares began
trading about 18 months after their IPO in December 2007, while
 Vietnam Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade  had
its debut more than six months after shares were sold in
December 2008.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  