-- Don’t Blame the Candidates, Blame the News Media
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-06-20T22:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/blame-press-not-candidates-for-q-a-s-to-nowhere.html
“Excuse me, sir,” President  Barack
Obama  said when a reporter from the Daily Caller website
interrupted his news conference last week on immigration. “It’s
not time for questions, sir. Not while I’m speaking.”  As Matt Negrin of ABC News  pointed out , in this White
House, it’s rarely time for questions. Negrin cites research
from Martha Kumar of  Towson University  that Obama had held only
17 solo news conferences as of February, fewer at that point in
his presidency than  Bill Clinton  (31),  George H.W. Bush  (56) or
 Ronald Reagan  (21), though more than George W. Bush (11).  The data are even starker if you consider “impromptu”
encounters with reporters. On that measure, Obama took questions
94 times, fewer than Bush Jr. (307), Clinton (493), Bush Sr.
(263) or Reagan (120).  The one measure on which Obama leads his predecessors is in
actual interviews. At the time of Kumar’s count, Obama had given
408. That’s about three times as many as  George W. Bush  (136)
had given at a similar point in his presidency, and about two-
and-a-half times as many as Reagan (164) or Clinton (166).  Mitt Romney  has also been less than an open book. In
February, reporters Ashley Parker and Michael Barbaro, who cover
Romney’s presidential campaign for the New York Times,  wrote  “a
news conference with Mitt Romney is an exceedingly rare
occurrence, enough so that his traveling press corps tracks the
time that elapses between them.” At that point, it had been
three weeks since Romney’s last presser.  Nor has Romney been granting many interviews. His
appearance last Sunday on CBS’s “Face the Nation” with Bob
Schieffer was his first on a show that wasn’t “Fox News Sunday”
during this campaign cycle.  Controlled Environments  As a journalist, I should be especially outraged by the
decline in news conferences and the turn to tightly controlled
environments -- one-on-one interviews or, worse, one-on-one
interviews in friendly, partisan news outlets. Our elected
leaders, and those who seek to replace them, owe the public
vastly more detailed explanations of policy and governing
philosophy than they’re providing.  I believe that. What I don’t believe is that the public is
deriving much benefit from the few news conferences and
impromptu question-and-answer sessions that do occur.  Two weeks ago, Obama gave a news conference arguing that
the  fractures in the euro area  and the slowdown in developing
economies have added urgency to the need for more tax cuts,
infrastructure spending and support for local governments to
protect the weakening recovery. I haven’t seen a poll on this. I
suspect that approximately 0 percent of the country knows what
that news conference was about. Obama’s argument was entirely
overshadowed by coverage of his  inartful phrase : “The private
sector is fine.”  Let’s consider that line: What was the news value of “the
private sector is fine”? Did it augur a change in administration
policy? It did not. In fact, the news conference was all about
Obama’s renewed call for support for the economy. Did anyone in
the news media really think that Obama believes the economy --
public or private -- is growing as he’d like it to be? No.  Rather, the news value was derived from journalists
hypothesizing that Republicans would use Obama’s statement to
attack the president. This quickly became a self-fulfilling
prophecy: Republicans became much more likely to exploit the
quote after the media collectively deemed it “a gaffe,” and
Republican news releases and ads featuring the attack received
much more coverage after the media had decided the gaffe was “a
story.” That, in turn, gave Republicans much more reason to
flood the zone with attacks. In effect, the news value of the
gaffe was self-reinforcing, with the predicted partisan attacks
taking place in part because a path was cleared by the media’s
prediction of attacks.  Serious Points  Almost the exact same analysis can be applied to any of
Romney’s “gaffes.” Take the time he said, “I like being able to
fire people who provide services to me.” The line emerged in a
discussion of the type of  health-care market  Romney would like
to see, one in which consumers “choose among different policies
offered from companies across the nation.” He was making two
serious policy points: One, that insurance should be based on
individuals rather than on employers, and two, that it should be
sold across state lines. The media didn’t cover either point.
Even if Romney hadn’t misspoken, it’s doubtful either point
would have received wide notice.  Instead, Romney’s poor phrasing made headlines across the
nation. Why? Again, few people (and fewer journalists) truly
think Romney takes pleasure in firing people, much less that he
was announcing a “fire everybody!” economic policy. The media
simply anticipated that Romney’s political opponents would use
the remark against him.  As  New York  magazine’s Jonathan Chait wrote, “It’s
obviously true that political campaigns will take their
opponents’ statements  out of context . That is probably
unavoidable. The key step I’m focusing on here is when the
journalist internalizes the work of the oppo researcher.
Perhaps, in the end, the dumbest, least fair, most context-free
interpretation of the line will ultimately prevail. But when
journalists assume this will happen and make no effort to fight
against that process, we go from merely reporting on the
stupidity of politics to becoming accomplices of it.”  We also reduce the amount of useful information politicians
offer to the public, making our jobs harder in the long term.
What Obama no doubt learned from his “gaffe” news conference is
that he shouldn’t do many news conferences. The downside risk of
a poorly phrased, extemporaneous comment vastly outweighs the
likelihood that whatever serious message he seeks to convey will
make it through the media’s filter. What Romney learned from
Obama’s news conference is that, if he’s lucky enough to become
president, he shouldn’t do many news conferences, either. The
sad part is, both politicians probably learned the right lesson
-- at least for their purposes.  Perhaps the more troubling question is, what did the
American public learn from the news conferences? Nothing. If
anything, the public was misled about what the leaders were
truly saying. That’s the saddest part of all.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 