-- Blue Index Founder’s Insider Gains Used on Wine, Clothes
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-06-20T15:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/blue-index-founder-sanders-gets-4-years-for-insider-trading.html
The founder of Blue Index Ltd.
received the longest-ever U.K.  insider-trading  sentence after
prosecutors said he spent the proceeds of the crime on a 35,000-
pound ($55,000) wine cellar and other luxuries.  James Sanders , who was sentenced by a judge in London today
to four years in prison, set aside 100,000 pounds for a “car
fund” and 50,000 pounds for a watch, clothes, a holiday and
wine, according to his handwritten notes released by the
 Financial Services Authority . Profits generated by the illegal
trades for Sanders, his wife and another owner of the now-
defunct Blue Index totaled 1.9 million pounds over three years.  Sanders “acted out of greed, arrogance and a sense of
invincibility,” Justice Peregrine Simon said at a hearing in
London today.  The case, which saw four people jailed in two countries,
required the FSA to coordinate its investigations with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission and the  Justice Department .
The U.K. regulator monitored 26 million e-mails while U.S.
authorities pored over more than a million pages on financial
transactions.  Sanders’s wife, Miranda, and another owner of Blue Index,
James Swallow, both received 10-month terms at a hearing today.
Sanders, who pleaded guilty to 10 charges, traded on tips that
Kronos Inc., aQuantive Inc. and Getty Images Inc. were the
targets of takeover offers, according to FSA. He faced as long
as six years in prison if he hadn’t pleaded guilty, Simon said.  ‘Comfortable Lifestyles’  “These three individuals funded very comfortable
lifestyles by cheating the system and other honest investors,”
Tracey McDermott, the FSA’s acting director of enforcement, said
in a statement. “No doubt as they prepare to spend their first
night behind bars they will be reflecting on the consequences of
their greed.”  Andrew Radcliffe, a lawyer for Sanders, asked the judge for
leniency, saying his client was “genuinely anxious to serve his
sentence and then rebuild his life as soon as possible”.  A former senior trader at the brokerage, Christopher
Hossain, and another man, Adam Buck, were cleared of similar
charges last month, after a five-week trial.  The information in the scheme originated from Arnold
McClellan, the head of the mergers and acquisitions advisory
group at the accounting and consulting firm Deloitte LLP’s  San
Francisco  office. McClellan’s wife, Annabel, is Miranda
Sanders’s sister.  24,000 Calls  The FSA today said investigators listened to the equivalent
of two years of phone calls to collect evidence of systematic
insider trading. Software designed to catch key words didn’t
work because of the accents used and background noise on the
24,000 recorded phone calls.  On one recorded telephone call, a defendant said, “Where I
get the tip from, it’s Annie,” according to the FSA.  Blue Index, a spread-betting firm that traded contracts-
for-differences, collapsed after the FSA raided its office in
May 2009. A contract-for-difference is a financial instrument
that allows investors to bet on shares or other securities
without owning them.  Annabel McClellan, who lives in San Francisco, was
sentenced in the U.S. last year to 11 months in prison for
obstructing a SEC investigation. She also settled with the SEC
for $1 million in a lawsuit alleging she and her husband tipped
off the Sanderses to merger deals.  McClellan told prosecutors that her husband wasn’t aware
of, or involved in, passing information, according to documents
filed in the SEC case. The case against her husband was dropped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  