-- Bolivia Government Revokes Glencore’s Lease for Tin Mine
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y   a n d   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2012-06-20T21:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/bolivia-government-revokes-glencore-s-lease-for-tin-mine.html
Bolivia’s government took over
 Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s Colquiri tin and zinc mine to boost
its control over the mining industry.  State mining company Comibol will manage the mine, which
was sold off by the government in 2002, Vice President Alvaro Garcia Linera said today after revoking Glencore’s license.
Glencore acquired the mine from former president Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada in 2005.  “This is our mining policy: the State, cooperatives, and
national investment,” Garcia Linera said in a broadcast by
state-run Radio Patria Nueva. “We’re not going to hand our
country to foreigners who destroyed Bolivia and left it
stagnating for 20 years.”  President  Evo Morales , a 52-year-old ally of Venezuelan
President  Hugo Chavez , has raised taxes and seized mines, oil
refineries and power companies since taking power in 2006.
Earlier this year, Bolivia took over assets from Spain’s  Red
Electrica Corp. (REE)  and Pan American Energy LLC.  The government will take 120 days to determine how much
compensation will be paid to Glencore, state news agency  ABI 
reported.  Morales nationalized Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore’s
Vinto tin smelter in 2007.  Simon Buerk , a spokesman for
Glencore, didn’t immediately return telephone calls and e-mails
seeking comment.  Mining Revenue  Bolivia, which saw mining export revenue jump 50 percent to
$3.7 billion last year, is unlikely to feel an immediate impact
from declining foreign investment as surging minerals prices
enabled the government to balance its accounts, said   Gabriel Torres , a Moody’s analyst.  “Bolivia has been very clear it wanted to take charge of
key sectors driving its economy, but they’re limiting potential
upside going forward,” Torres said in a telephone interview
from New York. “You have to ask yourself whether they could
grow faster if they didn’t nationalize.”  Moody’s rates Bolivia Ba3, three levels below investment
grade.  Chavez nationalized Venezuela’s gold industry in September
after canceling concessions for companies including Canada’s
Crystallex International Corp. Another Chavez ally, Ecuador’s
Rafael Correa, tightened state control over the country’s  mining
industry  in 2009.  Bolivia’s zinc output fell 4.5 percent to 411,408 metric
tons in 2010, according to the Mining Ministry. Lead output
dropped 14 percent to 72,803 tons and silver declined 5 percent
to 1.26 million kilograms, while tin climbed 3 percent to 20,190
tons.  Glencore rose 1 percent to 333.25 pence at the close in
London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Emery  in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  