-- Bombardier Relocates Staff for Africa-to-China Jet Sales
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-06-20T20:18:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/bombardier-relocates-staff-for-africa-to-china-jet-sales.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  is transferring most
of its commercial-aircraft sales staff outside Canada in a bid
to capture growing demand for jets and turboprops in China, the
 Middle East  and  Africa .  About three-quarters of the sales team will be placed
outside the country by the end of 2012, said Mike Arcamone, who
runs the  commercial aircraft  unit at Montreal-based Bombardier.
That’s up from less than 20 percent at the end of last year,
said Arcamone, who joined the company on Feb. 1.  “We are going global,” Arcamone said yesterday in an
interview in  Montreal . “We are moving our sales offices out of
Montreal and Toronto. We are changing the footprint in sales.
It’s a major transformation.”  That approach will expand Bombardier’s reach in higher-
growth markets such as  China , which Bombardier predicts will
receive 2,200 commercial planes seating 20 to 149 people in the
next 20 years. That would be 17 percent of 12,800 global
deliveries in that span, according to a Bombardier forecast.  Arcamone’s remarks fleshed out previous comments by the
world’s third-largest planemaker about dispersing the
commercial-aircraft sales staff. Bombardier said last month it
needs more orders this year for models such as Q400 turboprops
and CRJ regional jets to avert production cuts in 2013.  Dubai, Shanghai  After opening sales offices in Dubai, Shanghai, Singapore
and Sydney in the past few months, Bombardier is poised to add
staff in Russia and other select countries, said Arcamone, who
declined to give the size of his sales force or details on
Bombardier’s expansion.  After opening an office in Munich to cover western  Europe ,
“we still have a few more to go this year,” Arcamone said.
“We just announced a service center in Russia and we will have
a sales office in Russia as well. It’s a very active market.”  Bombardier’s  Class B shares  fell 0.5 percent to C$4.03 at 4
p.m. in Toronto, leaving the stock down less than 1 percent for
2012. That compares with a 1.5 percent drop this year for  Boeing
Co. (BA) , the world’s largest aerospace company, and gains of 10
percent for Airbus SAS parent European Aeronautic Defence &
Space Co. and 15 percent for Brazil’s  Embraer SA. (EMBR3)   Arcamone is new to aerospace after a 30-year auto-industry
career, most recently as chief executive officer for  General
Motors Co. Korea. (GM)  He faces competitors such as Commercial
Aircraft Corp. of China and Embraer, and a market for which
yesterday’s forecast of 12,800 airliner deliveries over 20 years
is 300 fewer than previously projected.  Revenue Breakdown  Commercial-aircraft sales accounted for 4.8 percent of
Bombardier’s $3.51 billion in first-quarter revenue. Counting
sales of  business jets , parts and maintenance, aerospace revenue
was $1.5 billion. Commercial buyers in 2012 include Ethiopian
Airlines and China Express Airlines, while  Warren Buffett ’s
plane-leasing unit at  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  ordered business
jets last week with a list value of as much as $7.3 billion.  Arcamone said “significant” hiring will occur throughout
Bombardier’s international sales network, while declining to
give specifics.  “With every sales director comes the marketing team that
supports that, the legal team that supports that,” said
Philippe Poutissou, vice president of marketing at the
commercial-aircraft unit.  Arcamone’s business is presiding over development of the
CSeries, Bombardier’s entry in the smaller end of the narrow-
body jet segment. Designed to carry 100 to 149 passengers, the
CSeries is still set for its first flight this year and a
commercial debut by the end of 2013, Arcamone said yesterday
during a presentation to analysts and reporters in Montreal.  CSeries Backing  “Management could have taken the opportunity at the
briefing to really start to manage expectations regarding
foreseen delays,”  Walter Spracklin , an RBC Capital Markets
analyst in Toronto who rates the stock outperform, wrote in a
note today. “Instead we heard strong conviction that they are
tracking to plan.”  Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET) , the jet’s biggest customer,
remains “very supportive” of the CSeries even while weighing
the future of its  Frontier Airlines , Arcamone said yesterday.
Indianapolis-based Republic has 40 CSeries jets on order.  North America will remain pivotal to Bombardier, because
the region will absorb 4,730 new planes in the next two decades,
according to the planemaker’s forecast.  AMR, Delta  AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines ,  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and
SkyWest Inc. probably will announce “major” orders in the next
several quarters, according to analysts such as Tim James at TD
Securities in Toronto. Their purchases may total more than 300
regional jets and turboprops, James wrote in a June 12 note.  “The U.S. will be the big part of the game this year for
regional jets,” Chris Murray, a PI Financial Corp. analyst in
Toronto, said this week in a telephone interview. “Everybody is
trying to figure out how to bump the older, smaller regional
jets and either move to larger jets or turboprops on some
routes.”  Arcamone said bigger models such as Bombardier’s 100-
passenger CJR1000 may reap additional U.S. orders as airlines
win more-flexible union work rules to allow pilots at less-
costly regional units to fly those planes, a step up from older
50- and 70-seaters.  “Definitely there is still a market for that product
within  North America  as the restructuring occurs,” Arcamone
said. “We don’t want to miss the opportunity that this will
provide us.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  