-- Bowles Says Romney Plan Would Require Ending Tax Breaks
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-06-20T16:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/bowles-says-romney-plan-would-require-ending-tax-breaks.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney ’s plan to reduce tax rates would need to be financed
by ending widely used benefits such as the mortgage interest
deduction, said  Erskine Bowles , who was co-chairman of President
Barack Obama’s deficit-reduction commission.  Romney is “partly right and partly wrong” when he says he
can cut tax rates by 20 percent and make up the money by
curtailing tax breaks, Bowles said on Bloomberg Television’s
“Conversations with  Judy Woodruff ,” airing this weekend.  “One area that  Governor Romney  is wrong is you can’t just
affect the top 15 percent” of Americans, said Bowles, whose
bipartisan plan would cut spending and raise taxes. “It’s just
not enough money there in getting rid of the tax expenditures
that only affect the upper-income people. You’re going to have
to affect people down through the brackets.”  Romney and Obama are clashing over  tax policy , with the
president maintaining that Romney would cut taxes for top
earners and the former Massachusetts governor saying his plan
would unleash economic growth.  Romney wants to reduce all individual income tax rates by
20 percent, reducing the top rate to 28 percent from 35 percent.
He would lower the corporate tax rate to 25 percent from 35
percent, eliminate the estate tax and end taxation of investment
income for people making less than $200,000 a year.  Broaden Base  Romney, 65, said he embraces the concept of lowering tax
rates and broadening the base that Bowles and commission co-
chairman  Alan Simpson  used. There’s one big difference: Bowles
and Simpson want to use some of the revenue from curtailing tax
breaks to reduce the  budget deficit . Romney would dedicate all
of the money to pay for lower tax rates and assume that faster
economic growth would make up some of the difference.  Romney said he would make sure the tax code is as
progressive as it is today.  “One of the absolute requirements of any  tax reform  that I
have in mind is that people who are at the high end, whether you
call them the 1 percent or 2 percent or half a percent, that
people at the high end will still pay the same share of the tax
burden they’re paying now,” Romney said on CBS’s “Face the
Nation” on June 17. “I’m not looking for a  tax cut  for the
very wealthiest.”  $5 Trillion  Romney’s plan would cost the government about $5 trillion
in forgone revenue over the next decade on top of the cost of
extending the income tax cuts now scheduled to expire Dec. 31.
Romney hasn’t specified which tax breaks he would limit.  The Bowles-Simpson plan would cut the top tax rates on
individuals and corporations to 28 percent. It would limit tax
breaks for mortgages, charitable contributions and health
insurance without eliminating them. Bowles is a Democrat who was
White House chief of staff to President  Bill Clinton . Simpson is
a Republican former senator from Wyoming.  Unlike Romney, Bowles and Simpson include two features that
would raise taxes for high-income or wealthy taxpayers. They
would treat  capital gains  and dividends as ordinary income. They
also would assume that the estate tax continues with a top rate
of 45 percent.  Deficit reduction should take place over 15 years so that
it doesn’t slow down the economy, Bowles said.  “What they tried to do in the U.K. was to do it really
quickly, trying to get it, you know, to a balanced budget within
five years,” he said. “We have it over a much longer period of
time, so we don’t disrupt this very fragile economic recovery.”  Most Similar  In a memo released yesterday, the Obama campaign said its
plan -- not Romney’s -- was the one that most closely resembled
the Simpson-Bowles plan.  “Despite his praise for the Simpson-Bowles approach,
Romney’s plans are fundamentally incompatible with it,” wrote
 James Kvaal , the campaign’s policy director.  Obama, 50, disagrees with the Simpson-Bowles plan’s cuts to
defense and Social Security, the memo said.  Like Romney, Republicans in the U.S. House have proposed
 tax rate  cuts without specifying what tax breaks they would cut.  An estimate released by the Democratic staff of the
congressional Joint Economic Committee attempted to calculate
the effect of reducing rates while eliminating tax breaks for
health care, charitable contributions, state and local taxes and
mortgage interest. It said individual middle-class families
would pay more taxes under such a plan, while higher-income
families would pay less, compared with allowing all the expiring
tax cuts to lapse.  Investment Rates  The report “pulls up the skirts” on Republicans’ refusal
to specify what tax breaks they would curtail, said Senator
 Charles Schumer , a  New York  Democrat who requested the analysis.
Schumer said the report would prompt Republicans to look at
changes to investment tax rates that would disproportionately
affect high-income households.  “If Republicans will put capital gains on the table, it
will open up all kinds of possibilities for doing tax reform in
a way that’s not regressive,” he said on a conference call with
reporters.  The estimate doesn’t reflect an actual Republican plan,
show how much tax revenue the model plan would raise or the fact
that some of the Republican changes to rates and breaks would
affect corporations. Sage Eastman, a spokesman for House Ways
and Means Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican, said it
“doesn’t even pass the laugh test.”  ‘Partisan Attack’  “They made a host of bogus assumptions to levy a partisan
attack on tax reform,” he said in an e-mailed statement today.
“The American people want a flatter, simpler  tax code  that
eliminates special interest loopholes in order to lower tax
rates and make the code fairer.”  Bowles said he didn’t expect Republicans to stick to their
no-tax-increase pledge, particularly because the end-of-year
fiscal cliff could throw the economy into recession.  “I’m not worried about it a bit, because I think you will
see, as we get closer and closer to this fiscal cliff, you will
see more and more Republicans come out and say, you know, we
have to have some revenue,” he said.  Two current Senate Republicans --  Mike Crapo  of Idaho and
 Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma -- were on the Bowles-Simpson panel and
supported the proposal.  The plan, released in December 2010, was three votes short
of the 14 votes needed on the debt commission to send it to
Congress. Among the opponents were Camp and Senator  Max Baucus ,
a Montana Democrat, the top two tax-writers in Congress.  Bowles also said he thought the Obama administration was
prepared to make significant changes to entitlement programs,
based on conversations he has had with administration officials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  