-- Brazil Government Fails to Benefit Blocking Oil Firms
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-06-20T06:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/brazil-government-fails-to-benefit-blocking-oil-firms.html
International oil companies looking
to start exploring Brazil, home to the largest discoveries in
the past decade, can’t get near the crude.  Brazil has repeatedly delayed the sale of exploration areas 
since 2007, leaving  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  
shut out of an offshore area that holds at least $5 trillion of 
oil. Meanwhile  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the state-run company 
that pumps more than 90 percent of the country’s crude, is 
struggling to develop deposits it has already found. Petrobras’s 
output grew 1.5 percent in 2011, the slowest pace in four years.  Companies including  Total SA (FP)  have accelerated exploration
off the coast of West  Africa , where the geology is similar to
Brazil and which holds large discoveries in deep waters. OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , began exploring in Colombia amid delays in offering new
exploration tracts in Brazil.  “Brazil is someplace where we would like to be more
present; at the same time we are in 130 countries, it’s not one
against the other, it’s one plus,” Total Chief Executive
Officer Christophe de Margerie said in a June 18 interview in
 Rio de Janeiro . “I hate to say it but if it doesn’t work it
doesn’t work. We would like it to work.”  Petrobras this month increased its five-year spending plan 
5.3 percent to $236.5 billion, the biggest in the oil industry, 
to develop deposits in waters as deep as 2,800 meters (9,200 
feet) and trapped under a layer of salt.  Price-to-Earnings  Petrobras trades at 6.81 times its estimated 2013 earnings,
compared with a ratio of 9.74 for Exxon, 7.12 for Shell and 6.28
for Total, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue at the Brazilian producer totaled $150.7 billion in
the trailing 12 months, less than Exxon’s $442.9 billion,
Shell’s $480.2 billion and Total’s $236.2 billion.  While a legislation change in 2007 put Petrobras in charge
of all new contracts in the so-called pre-salt area off Brazil,
the company hasn’t been able to extract oil fast enough to meet
targets. Petrobras cut its long-term production guidance by 11
percent to 5.7 million barrels a day in 2020. Output will remain
within 2 percent of 2011 levels until 2014, it said on June 14.  The lack of new exploration areas in Brazil has encouraged
some companies to concentrate on other regions such as offshore
Africa, where  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  and  Cobalt International Energy
Inc. (CIE)  have made discoveries in deep waters. Last year,  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC)  announced plans to sell all its Brazil blocks,
granted before the 2007 legislation change, as it boosts
investment in natural-gas projects in Africa.  Bid Rounds  “The absence of bid rounds is affecting all oil companies
in Brazil,” Joao Clark, the head of  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) ’s Brazilian
operations, said in an April 17 interview in Rio de Janeiro.
“We need new blocks, we have to improve our portfolio.”  Exxon quit its only Brazilian block this year after
drilling three dry holes in deep waters, Patrick McGinn, a
company spokesman, said by e-mail from Irving,  Texas . The
explorer is seeking more opportunities in the country, he said.  Petrobras is failing to meet output goals after new 
offshore wells didn’t compensate for declines at older fields. 
That jeopardizes its 2020 target.  Brazil  is counting on the 
company to provide national energy self-sufficiency to meet 
demand from a growing economy. Petrobras pumped 93 percent of 
the country’s oil and 99 percent of its gas in April.  Pre-Salt Zone  Foreign producers including Exxon and Total, with little
acreage in Brazil, are seeking to eat into that share as fields
dwindle in other areas such as the  North Sea  and Alaska’s North
Slope. Brazil hasn’t auctioned any offshore permits since before
announcing the potential of the pre-salt zone in 2007 and hasn’t
sold any blocks at all since 2008, when it sold tracts on land.  “I understand quite well the anxiety of those companies,”
Petrobras Chief Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Silva Foster
told reporters in Rio on Feb. 13, the day she was promoted to
the role. “For them it might be really important. For
Petrobras, it makes no difference. We have a lot of work to
do.”  Brazil probably won’t offer any areas in the region until
2013 because lawmakers are debating how to distribute future
revenues, Marco Antonio Almeida, the Energy Ministry’s oil and
gas secretary, said in a May 3 telephone interview from
Brasilia. The pre-salt auctions will only occur after Congress
votes on how to distribute the royalties from future output, the
Energy Ministry said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Political Wrangling  The combination of political wrangling, requirements to buy
locally built equipment and Petrobras’s budget constraints may
even push new rounds to 2014 at the earliest, according to
 Christopher Garman , a Latin America analyst at Eurasia Group.  “The sentiment within the upper levels of government is
they already have their hands full,” Garman said by phone from
 Washington . “What is really hurting the decisions of
international  oil companies  to stay is the lack of a pipeline of
new opportunities.”  Petrobras is required to have a minimum 30 percent stake in
new pre-salt blocks. That means the Rio de Janeiro-based company
can sign contracts before knowing who it will work with, making 
it hard to set up the auctions, Almeida said. “It’s a situation 
that doesn’t exist anywhere else in the world,” he said.  The lack of auctions has put a premium on existing permits.
Companies that bought exploration areas before the discovery of 
Lula -- the field previously known as Tupi, which was the 
Americas’ largest oil discovery in more than three decades -- 
have seen the value of those areas increase as a result of oil-
price gains and scarcity of acreage, Peter Gaw, head of oil, gas 
and chemicals at Standard Chartered Bank, said in an interview.  BG, Repsol  BG Group Plc (BG/)  owns 25 percent of Lula, while Portugal’s  Galp
Energia SGPS SA (GALP)  has a 10 percent stake. Repsol SA owns 25 
percent of a neighboring block. Their properties, purchased 
years before anyone knew what they were worth, have since 
attracted global peers to the south Atlantic.  China Petrochemical Corp., Asia’s biggest refiner, has
agreed to invest $12.3 billion to become a minority partner with
Repsol and Galp in Brazil.  BP Plc (BP/) , who skipped the first pre-
salt auctions, paid Devon Energy Corp. $3.2 billion last year
for nine blocks in the country.  Petrobras doesn’t need to worry about the timing of new
sales because oil will only gain in value in coming decades,
Silvio Sinedino Pinheiro, elected to the company’s 10-member
board by workers this year, said in an April 11 interview at its
headquarters.  “Here at Petrobras we talk a lot about if it makes more
sense to sell now at $100 a barrel, or sell in 30 years when it
costs $200 a barrel,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  