-- Brazilian Stock Movers: Cosan, HRT, Petrobras and Renova Energia
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-06-20T21:39:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/brazil-stock-movers-gol-hrt-petroleo-and-petrobras-are-active.html
The following companies had  unusual 
price changes in  Sao Paulo  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of the market close. Preferred
shares are usually the most-traded class of stock.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  Index was little changed at 57,166.55.  Cosan SA Industria & Comercio (CSAN3 BS), which controls
the world’s largest sugar-cane processor with Royal Dutch Shell
Plc, fell 2 percent to 31 reais. Deutsche Bank AG cut its
recommendation to hold from buy, citing recent purchases. “We
believe the stock will not outperform the market until the deals
are finalized and the value creation becomes clear,” analysts
including Alessandro Baldoni and Gustavo Gregori, wrote in a
note to clients dated today.  HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA  (HRTP3 BS) fell 7.2
percent to 6.87 reais, reversing an earlier gain of as much as
4.6 percent. The oil and gas production company said it started
drilling the well 1-HRT-9-AM on June 16, in  Brazil ’s Solimoes
Basin. The operation will test the presence of hydrocarbons in
an area located to the south of the Juruá Field in a possible
extension of the gas trend recently confirmed by 1-HRT-5-AM,
according to a regulatory filing after the market closed
yesterday.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  (PETR4 BS) advanced 1.3 percent to
19.90 reais, the highest in a month. Petrobras, as the state-
controlled  oil company  is known, will recommend fuel price
increases of 15 percent in its business plan to be released June
25, newspaper O Estado de S. Paulo reported today, citing people
it didn’t name. Petrobras won’t comment on the business plan
until after announcing it publicly, the company’s press office
said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Renova Energia SA (RNEW11)  (RNEW11 BS) declined 1.3 percent to 30.99
reais, the lowest since April 18. The renewable sources
electricity generator said in a regulatory filing it suspended a
plan to convert common shares into preferred stock for as many
as 15 days starting today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  