-- CFTC Panel Urges Broad Definition of High-Frequency Trading
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-06-20T17:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/broad-definition-of-high-frequency-trading-urged-by-cftc-panel.html
U.S. financial regulators should
adopt a broad definition of high-frequency trading to prevent
“regulatory arbitrage,” according to an advisory committee to
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  “It is important to recognize that high-frequency trading
is a means rather than an end in itself, and that there are many
types of market activity that can be potentially labeled as
HFT,” members of a CFTC advisory working group said in a report
to the agency’s Technical Advisory Committee.  The working group, includes Getco LLC’s Sean Castette,
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.’s Greg Wood and  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s
Colin Clark, presented their draft definition today at a
Washington meeting of the technical committee led by Republican
Commissioner  Scott O’Malia . The definition spurred divisions on
the panel underscoring the difficulty regulators may have in
writing rules to govern trading on about half of equities and
futures markets.  “We wanted to keep it easy to interpret and difficult to
game,” Wood said at the meeting. “We deliberately did not want
to define types of high-frequency trading strategies.”  The CFTC, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, has
scrutinized high-frequency and algorithmic trading since May 6,
2010, when $862 billion in equity value was erased in 20 minutes
before share prices recovered from the plunge. The agency has
been drafting a release on new rules, a step prior to a formal
proposal.  Adapting Regulations  “I think regulators cannot assume that algorithms in the
markets are always well-designed, tested and supervised,” CFTC
Chairman  Gary Gensler  said at the meeting. “To give hedgers and
investors the confidence in markets that they really need and
deserve, I think regulations always need to adapt.”  The draft definition was the subject of months of internal
debate and led to disagreements among the panel, said Joseph Saluzzi, a working group member and co-head of equity trading at
Themis Trading LLC. Saluzzi dissented on the definition, saying
his institutional clients and long-only  hedge funds  would be
affected.  “It’s not designed to capture the potential bad HFT
actors,” he said. “To capture market participants who don’t
pose a threat to the market doesn’t seem to make any sense at
this point. What are you trying to catch? You’re going to catch
everbody.”  Wasted Resources  Requiring registration and audits of automated trading
algorithms would be a waste of regulators’ resources because of
the cost and complexity of establishing unique identifiers, a
separate CFTC advisory working group said in a summary of its
findings to be presented at today’s meeting in  Washington .  “Market abuse is not fundamentally a function of the
means, speed or frequency of order entry and transactions,”
according to the summary. “Focus should be on specific
behaviors that undermine market integrity irrespective of the
means or pace of order entry.”  The agency’s so-called concept release on regulations may
include testing, supervision and protections of participants
with direct  market access , Gensler said in March. The release,
which has circulated among commissioners, “never comes to a
conclusion about what’s wrong with the market,” O’Malia said at
today’s meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  