-- Spanish, Italian Bonds Rise on Debt-Buying Bets
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-06-20T15:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/bunds-decline-before-note-sale-as-leaders-pledge-to-defend-euro.html
Spanish and Italian  government bonds 
surged for a second day amid speculation European leaders are
seeking ways to reduce the borrowing costs of the region’s
lower-rated nations.  German 10-year bunds slid, sending yields to the  highest in
six weeks , after French President  Francois Hollande  said leaders
are exploring letting the European Stability Mechanism rescue
fund buy debt from countries that have taken fiscal-
consolidation steps.  Spain ’s 10-year rate slipped below 7
percent. Greek bonds stayed lower even as politicians reached an
agreement on forming a coalition government.  The prospect of the ESM buying Spanish and Italian bonds
“is giving  Italy  and Spain a short-term boost, but it’s only
talk at the moment, there’s nothing concrete,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed debt markets at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam. “It looks like it’s going to be discussed at a
European level. Longer-term something much more substantial
needs to happen.”  Spain’s 10-year bond yield fell 30 basis points, or 0.30
percentage point, to 6.74 percent at 4:41 p.m. London time. It
rose to 7.29 percent on June 18, a euro-era high. The 5.85
percent security due January 2022 advanced 1.945, or 19.45 euros
per 1,000-euro ($1,269) face amount, to 93.775.  Hollande Comments  “We’re looking at the ways and means” to use the ESM, the
17-country euro region’s permanent bailout facility, to bring
down borrowing costs for “virtuous countries,” Hollande told
reporters after a summit of Group-of-20 leaders in Los Cabos,
 Mexico . A German official said no specific plans for ESM
purchases were discussed in Mexico.  The yield on 10-year Italian debt dropped 15 basis points
to 5.77 percent and reached 5.73 percent, the least since June
11. The extra-yield investors demand to hold the securities over
similar-maturity German bunds narrowed for a second day,
declining to 417 basis points.  German  10-year yields  jumped eight basis points to 1.61
percent and climbed as high as 1.64 percent, the most since May
3. The two-year yield rose six basis points to 0.15 percent.  Germany  auctioned an additional 4 billion euros of 0
percent notes due in June 2014 today. The notes were sold at an
average yield of 0.1 percent, up from a record-low 0.07 percent
when they were offered on May 23.  Unsustainable Yields  Spain will auction as much as 2 billion euros of notes
tomorrow after borrowing costs for one year surged to more than
5 percent at a sale of bills yesterday.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Andrew Bosomworth  said
the bond yields of Spain and Italy are unsustainable.  “Both of those countries will go bankrupt eventually if
they have to continually refinance themselves at these sorts of
levels,” Bosomworth, a  money manager  at the Newport Beach,
California-based company, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse” with  Maryam Nemazee . “It’s not an
easy environment to invest in.”  LCH Clearnet Ltd., Europe’s biggest clearing house, raised
the extra deposit it takes from clients to trade most Spanish
government bonds yesterday.  The margin needed for Spanish securities due in 10 years to
15 years will be increased to 14.7 percent from 13.6 percent,
according to a statement on the company’s website. The rate was
also boosted on all Spanish debt due from zero months through
seven years.  Volatility on Spanish bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by Ireland, according to measures of 10-
year debt, the spread between two- and 10-year securities and
credit-default swaps.  Greek Government  Greek 2 percent bonds due February 2023 slipped for a
second day, with the yield climbing 74 basis points to 27.17
percent. The price dropped to 16.405 percent of face value.  Evangelos Venizelos , the head of Greece’s Pasok party, said
the conditions for the creation of a coalition government
between his party,  New Democracy  and Democratic Left were being
met. Antonis Samaras, leader of New Democracy, will be sworn in
today as premier, a party official told reporters in  Athens .  German debt returned 2.5 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish securities lost 7 percent,
and Italian bonds rose 7.2 percent, the indexes showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 