-- Burger King Rises on First Day of Return to NYSE
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-06-20T20:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/burger-king-starts-trading-again-today-after-ackman-deal.html
Burger King Worldwide Inc. advanced
in the fast-food chain’s return to the  New York  Stock Exchange
today after completing a merger with a company co-founded by
 William Ackman .  Burger King, based in Miami,  rose  3.5 percent to $15.01 at
the close in New York from the opening price of $14.50.  The chain, which was taken private in 2010 by New York
investment firm 3G Capital Inc., is trading under the ticker
symbol BKW. 3G got $1.4 billion in cash and remains the majority
shareholder with a 71 percent stake. Pershing Square Capital
Management LP, the $10.5 billion hedge fund founded by Ackman,
holds 11 percent of Burger King.  3G, backed by Brazilian billionaire  Jorge Paulo Lemann ,
paid $3.3 billion for Burger King less than two years ago. Since
the takeover, which was the biggest restaurant deal in at least
a decade, Burger King sales have stagnated, prompting the
company to experiment with new items and delivery service.
Ackman has said the chain plans to add stores internationally
and franchise more sites to bolster earnings.  “We have a tremendous opportunity to capitalize on the
growth and the recognition of our global iconic brand,” Burger
King Chief Financial Officer Daniel Schwartz said in a telephone
interview. While the chain is focused on expansion in Brazil,
Russia and  China , it may also look to open its doors in  India ,
he said.  Eye on India  “India is definitely going to be a priority for us at some
point,” Schwartz said. Burger King, which has stores in more
than 80 countries, may also seek to expand in  South Africa  and
 Indonesia , he said.  The Whopper seller, which announced a new menu on April 2,
has struggled to keep pace with  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and tried to
remodel stores to a so-called 20/20 prototype, which includes
corrugated metal, brick, wood and concrete.  Last week, Burger King formed a joint venture to open 1,000
stores in China. The agreement with the Kurdoglu family and
private-equity firm Cartesian Capital Group LLC to open the
restaurants in the next five to seven years is the company’s
largest development deal.  Burger King has more than 12,500 restaurants worldwide, of
which about 90 percent are franchised. The chain went public
again following a transaction, announced in April, in which
Burger King was transferred to  Justice Holdings Ltd. (JUSH) , a special-
purpose acquisition company.  Justice Holdings, started by  Nicolas Berggruen , Martin Franklin and Ackman, raised 900 million pounds ($1.4 billion) in
a February 2011 initial public offering in London. Berggruen is
the owner of Karstadt, Germany’s biggest department-store chain,
and also co-leads the New York-based Liberty Acquisition
Holdings Corp. with Franklin.  Berggruen and Franklin each own about 1 percent of Burger
King.  Before going private, the fast-food chain was listed on the
NYSE, beginning in 2006, as Burger King Holdings Inc., with the
symbol BKC. That stock was delisted in October 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ; 