-- California Tax Imperils Best Tobacco Gain Since ’09: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-06-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/california-tax-imperils-best-tobacco-gain-since-09-muni-credit.html
More than 300,000 uncounted ballots
in a  California  tax referendum may dictate the future of the
biggest rally since 2009 for bonds backed by payments from
tobacco companies.  Proposition 29 , seeking to more than double taxes on a pack
of cigarettes in the most-populous U.S. state, was initially
behind by about 63,000 votes of 3.9 million cast June 5.
Counting of absentee ballots has narrowed the margin to 17,571
as of yesterday, with about 371,000 untallied, according to the
 Secretary of State ’s office.  Investors such as Bill Black at  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  said they’re
checking the California vote results daily. Black, whose company
manages $20 billion in municipal debt, said that a higher tax
may lower sales underpinning the payments that states receive
from tobacco companies under a 1998 settlement of smoking-
related litigation.  “If the measure succeeds, that would probably encourage
other states to raise their taxes as well,” said Black, who
holds California tobacco bonds. “That would have a significant
impact” on tobacco bond yields, he said from  Oakbrook Terrace ,
 Illinois .  California accounts for $28 billion of tobacco securities,
the biggest portion of the $102 billion of such debt
outstanding, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Tobacco bonds have
earned 4.09 percent this year through June 18, compared with
3.97 percent across the $3.7 trillion muni market, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show. The segment hasn’t beaten
the market since 2009.  $1-a-Pack  California’s proposed $1-a-pack increase would boost the
tax to $1.87, with the additional revenue slated for  cancer
research  and anti-smoking programs. The tobacco industry led a
campaign that spent $46.8 million to kill it.  A victory for the tax’s proponents may inspire other states
to follow suit, said  Jack Pitney , a political science professor
at  Claremont McKenna College  in Claremont, California.  Voters in  Missouri , with the lowest state cigarette  tax  in
the U.S. at 17 cents a pack, go to the polls in November on a $1
increase. Illinois Governor  Pat Quinn , a Democrat, signed a law
June 14 that raised the levy there by $1 a pack, to $1.98.  A California tobacco bond maturing in June 2027 traded
yesterday at an average yield of 6.3 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The security, which Standard & Poor’s
rates B, five levels below investment grade, yielded 2.45
percentage points more than top-rated munis, the least since
January, Bloomberg Valuation data show.  Smoking Rates  Each 10 percent increase in tobacco prices reduces smoking
rates by 4 percent, Christopher Hansen, president of the Cancer
Action Network, the national advocacy affiliate of the  American
Cancer Society , said in an interview.  Two-thirds of campaign contributions to defeat Proposition
29 came from Richmond, Virginia-based  Altria Group Inc. (MO) , maker
of Marlboro, which put in $31.3 million, according to data
compiled by MapLight, a nonpartisan research organization based
in Berkeley.  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , the maker of Camel and
Winston, based in Winston-Salem,  North Carolina , gave $14.1
million, according to MapLight data.  Bill Phelps, a spokesman for Altria Group, said the company
opposes “additional, targeted taxes on tobacco.” Jane
Seccombe, a spokeswoman for Reynolds American, referred
questions to Beth Miller, a hired spokeswoman for the campaign
to defeat the measure.  “We are cautiously optimistic that Prop. 29 will be
defeated when all is said and done,” Miller said by e-mail.  Lead Dwindles  Opponents of the tax led 50.2 percent to 49.8 percent as of
12:47 p.m. California time yesterday, the latest tally available
on the secretary of state’s  website . The day after the election,
the lead was 50.8 percent to 49.2 percent. County officials have
until July 6 to report totals to the state.  Richard Larkin, director of credit analysis for Herbert J.
Sims & Co. in Iselin,  New Jersey , said the measure could
decrease smoking by 10 percent in the state and 2 percent
nationally.  Payments from the settlement agreement with cigarette
manufacturers rose in 2012 for the first time in three years,
according to a report by Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia. About $6.2 billion was distributed to 46 states,
the  District of Columbia  and five U.S. territories, up from $6
billion in 2011.  Cigarette consumption fell about 3 percent in 2011, the
smallest drop since 2006, according to Janney. It has dropped
from a 1981 peak of 640 billion cigarettes to less than 300
billion in 2011, according to the report.  Tax Impact  The decline “has been at a steeper pace than most people
would have thought, and taxes have to be a big part of it,”
said Matt Dalton, who manages about $1 billion of munis,
including California tobacco bonds, at Belle Haven Investments
Inc. in  White Plains ,  New York . The California measure “is just
another wind blowing negatively towards tobacco bonds.”  Rejection of the California measure might discourage anti-
smoking advocates, Pitney said. California has the second-lowest
 proportion  of smokers of any state, 12.8 percent, compared with
20.6 percent of adults nationwide, he said.  “A failure in California would make it harder to pass such
measures in other states,” he said by e-mail. “If the  tobacco
companies  can beat it here, then they can beat it anywhere.”  Following are pending sales:  NEW YORK STATE THRUWAY AUTHORITY plans to issue $1.1
billion in revenue bonds as soon as next week, according to an
offering statement. Proceeds from the sale will be used to fund
capital projects. On June 12, S&P lowered its outlook on the
bonds to negative from stable and assigned the securities an A+
rating, fifth-highest. (Added June 20)  THE CITY OF OAKLAND, California, plans to issue $211
million in taxable pension-obligation bonds as soon as today,
according to Moody’s Investors Service. Moody’s rates the bonds
Aa3, fourth-highest. (Added June 20)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  