-- Camargo Set to Win Control of Cimpor After No Rival Emerged
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-06-20T09:22:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/camargo-set-to-win-control-of-cimpor-as-no-rival-suitor-emerged.html
Camargo Correa SA,  Brazil ’s second-
biggest construction company, will probably succeed in its bid
to take control of  Cimpor-Cimentos de Portugal SGPS SA  when the
results of the 2.48 billion-euro ($3.14 billion) offer for the
Portuguese cement maker are made public today.  Bidding through its Austrian subsidiary Intercement,
Camargo on March 30 offered 5.50 euros a share to buy the two-
thirds of Cimpor it didn’t already own. The bid was 10 percent
higher than Cimpor’s closing price before the announcement. By
taking control of the Portuguese company, Camargo would increase
its market share in Brazil, where Cimpor is the  fourth-largest 
cement producer.  Portugal’s state-owned  Caixa Geral de Depositos SA  said on
March 30 that it planned to sell its 9.6 percent stake to
Camargo. A week later,  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP) ’s pension
fund said it also aimed to sell its 10 percent stake to the
Brazilian company, raising the likelihood of Camargo owning at
least 53 percent of Cimpor.  “The fact that no rival bidder stepped forward means
Camargo’s offer is the best and only one, making it very likely
that it will win control,” Paulo Monteiro, who is in charge of
managing Portuguese equity fund  Alves Ribeiro Medias Empresas
Portugal (ARMEMPO) , said in an interview. “I waited until the last day to
sell all of my fund’s shares in Cimpor.”  Cimpor shares dropped 3.4 percent to 5.455 euros at 10:17
a.m. in Lisbon trading, the biggest intraday fall since Dec. 1.  Asset Exchange  The results of Camargo’s bid for Cimpor are scheduled to be
announced today at the Euronext Lisbon exchange at 5 p.m.
Camargo’s offer period ended yesterday.  As no competing suitor for Cimpor emerged, eight Portuguese
equity funds, with about 133 million euros under management,
sold most of their Cimpor holdings after the Camargo bid was
announced, according to data on these funds published on
 Portugal ’s securities regulator  website .  After taking control of Cimpor, Camargo plans to exchange
some of the Portuguese company’s assets in China, India,
 Morocco ,  Tunisia ,  Turkey ,  Peru  and Spain for Brazilian rival
Votorantim Cimentos SA’s 21 percent stake in Cimpor, it said on
May 6.  Portugal’s securities regulator CMVM said on May 29 that
Camargo’s offer was compulsory and it considered the voting
rights of Camargo and Votorantim to be attributed to both
companies, as well as the stake held by Caixa Geral de
Depositos. The direct and indirect stake of Camargo and
Votorantim in Cimpor was 64.38 percent, according to the
regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  