-- Cambridge Academic May Consider Challenging Rome Mayor Alemanno
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-06-20T08:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/cambridge-academic-may-consider-challenging-rome-mayor-alemanno.html
Loretta Napoleoni, an economics
lecturer at  Cambridge University , said she would consider an
offer by the insurgent 5 Star Movement to challenge  Rome  Mayor
Gianni Alemanno in his bid for reelection next year.  “If the movement asks me, I will take it into
consideration,” Napoleoni said in a phone interview late
yesterday. Napoleoni is currently advising the municipality of
Parma in northern  Italy , where 5 Star won its first mayoral seat
in local elections in May, on how to reduce its debt.  The 5 Star Movement, founded by comedian-turned-politician
Beppe Grillo in 2009, emerged as Italy’s third-biggest party in
local election across the country last month and now ranks
second in opinion polls nationally. Grillo has called on
politicians to consider abandoning the euro and defaulting if
necessary. Napoleoni last month praised him for putting Italy’s
euro exit “on the political agenda.”  London resident Napoleoni, 56, would probably shake up the
race to lead Italy’s biggest city, which for almost two decades
has been led by one of the country’s two main parties. Alemanno
is running for former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s People
of Liberty party. The  Democratic Party  will put forward Nicola
Zingaretti, who is currently president of the Province of Rome.  “As I am helping the movement in Parma, I would be happy
to do the same in Rome, but any decision is completely up to
them and this doesn’t mean that I will be the candidate,”
Napoleoni said. “If they need me, I will do that as I see that
as a possible way of civic commitment, although I know that
would also be a full time job and would change the way I live.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.ne  