-- Cameron Says Putin Was Explicit That Russia Not Backing Assad
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-06-20T02:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/cameron-says-putin-was-explicit-that-russia-not-backing-assad.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
made it “explicit” he isn’t invested in the survival of Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad, U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said, in the clearest sign yet that world leaders are converging
on the need for a political transition to end 15 months of
bloodshed.  “There remain differences over sequencing and the shape of
how the transition takes place, but it is welcome that President
Putin has been explicit that he is not opted for Assad to remain
in charge in Syria,” Cameron said yesterday, after meeting with
Putin at a Group of 20 Summit in Mexico.  Syria topped the foreign policy agenda at the gathering of
the world’s most influential economies. Putin, who wants to
preserve  Russia ’s only toehold in the Arab world, came under
pressure to show he is no longer clinging to Assad and is
willing to consider a succession.  “It is important to push for such a situation that a shift
of power -- if it happens, and it can happen only in a
constitutional way -- helps to establish peace in the country,”
Putin told reporters in the Mexican beach resort of Los Cabos.  Cameron’s remarks prompted disagreement. Foreign Minister
 Sergei Lavrov  said they “don’t correspond to reality.”  While French President  Francois Hollande  said Russia “is
playing its role to enable this transition,” U.S. President
 Barack Obama  struck a more cautious note.  Situation ‘Grave’  “I don’t think it would be fair to say that the Russians
and the Chinese are signed on at this point,” Obama said. “I
think what is fair to say is that they recognize that the
current situation is grave. It does not serve their interests.”  A shift by Putin, who regained the presidency of Russia
after winning the election in March, might end an impasse over
how to halt the violence in a country that the  United Nations 
says is now in the throes of a civil war. The Russian leader has
protected Assad with UN Security Council vetoes and Russia has
sold weapons to the Assad regime.  Western powers led by the U.S., U.K. and France have
clashed with Russia on how to tackle a crisis that has killed
more than 10,000 Syrians. Russia has accused the U.S. and its
European and Arab allies of trying to duplicate the overthrow of
the regime of Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi.  Obama said he and Putin agreed to work with “all
interested parties” to bring an end to the Syrian conflict.
Obama didn’t address whether  Iran , Syria’s closest ally, should
take part in the talks, as Russia has insisted. Obama said he
also discussed  Syria  with  China ’s president,  Hu Jintao .  Leadership Transition  “What we need next is an agreement on a transitional
leadership which can move Syria toward a democratic future that
protects the rights of all its communities,” Cameron said at a
news conference.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has expressed frustration
over the lack of consensus on Syria. The UN suspended its
observer mission in Syria on June 16 because of escalating
violence and withdrew personnel to bases within the country.  “How many times do I have to condemn these atrocities?”
Ban said. “And how many different ways do I have to say and
condemn this is a totally unacceptable situation?”  A crackdown by Assad on what started as a peaceful
opposition movement has pushed Syria toward sectarian civil war,
putting the majority Sunnis against the Alawite leadership in a
nation that is a patchwork of ethnic and religious groups.  Insurgents, using guerrilla tactics such as ambushes and
targeting army generals for assassination, are grabbing control
of territory and relying on sponsors from the  Persian Gulf  for
weapons. Pro-government forces are retaliating with heavy
weapons and increasing violence, as shown in the massacres of
Sunni civilians around Houla and in the village of Qubeir.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Los Cabos,  Mexico  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  