-- Canada Banks Shed Locker-Room Mentality, RBC’s Nixon Says
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-06-20T20:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/canada-banks-shed-locker-room-mentality-rbc-s-nixon-says.html
Canadian banks still struggle to
keep women in  capital markets  even as the industry has moved
beyond the “locker room” attitudes that have discouraged them
in the past, said  Gordon Nixon , chief executive officer of  Royal
Bank of Canada .  “If you look at the capital-markets business historically,
if you look at the trading business as an example, it used to be
accused of a locker-room mentality,” Nixon, 55, said yesterday
in an interview. “That’s not the case today, it’s come a long
way, but it’s been a progression.”  Nixon, who is being recognized this year by research firm
Catalyst for championing women in business, said banks must do
more to recruit and retain women in capital-markets roles.  “There’s systematic barriers in every industry, but
they’re probably worse in capital markets than they are in other
parts of financial services,” Nixon said. “There’s certainly
room for more improvement.”  Women represented 10 percent of managing directors or
higher within  Canada ’s capital-markets industry, little changed
in a decade, a study published last month by Catalyst and
nonprofit group Women In Capital Markets said. A more diverse
workplace would reduce turnover and improve a company’s
profitability, the study said.  Janice Fukakusa, Royal Bank’s chief financial officer, said
at Bloomberg’s Canada Economic Summit on May 8 that women have
had a tougher time moving up the ladder in  investment banking  in
part because the culture is still dominated by men.  Royal Bank has mentoring and sponsorship programs to shift
the trend within capital markets, and has other targets across
the bank to lure more women into management and  executive ranks .  Increase Diversity  Nixon will be honored by the Canadian arm of Catalyst at a
Nov. 5 dinner for his contributions to advancing women while
overseeing Canada’s biggest bank by assets. Catalyst, an
organization founded in 1962 to advance and support female
executives in business, said Royal Bank under Nixon “has
consistently shown leadership across all industries in the
representation of women and visible minorities.”  Nixon established a council at the bank after becoming CEO
in 2001 to oversee diversity efforts across the Toronto-based
company, including increasing the amount of women and visible
minorities for senior roles, Catalyst said this week in a
statement. Women comprise 65 percent of Royal Bank’s Canadian
workforce and 37 percent of the firm’s executives.  Female CEO  Nixon said that Canada is “absolutely” ready for its
first female bank CEO.  “Not only will Bay Street be ready for it, they’d welcome
it,” Nixon said, referring to the Toronto street that serves as
the financial hub for Canada. “We’re now getting more and more
women in the senior ranks of companies.”  Canadian firms still have work to do to bring on more women
leaders and improve gender diversity, Nixon said.  “We can always do more, it doesn’t mean corporate Canada
is bad, it just means there are always opportunities to do
more,” Nixon said. “When you look at things like board
composition, the numbers are pretty dismal in Canada.”  Five of Royal Bank’s 16  board  members are women.  Royal Bank  rose  14 cents, or 0.3 percent, to close at
C$53.05 ($52.07) in Toronto trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  