-- Canada Dollar Drops Versus U.S. Peer After Fed Lowers Forecast
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-06-20T21:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/canadian-dollar-declines-from-strongest-since-may-as-oil-drops.html
Canada’s dollar fell against its
U.S. peer after the  Federal Reserve  cut its estimates for 2012
growth and said it foresees little progress on unemployment this
year, damping demand for assets linked to growth.  The currency briefly gained after comments from German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  increased optimism that policy makers
will resolve the European crisis. The Fed said it would continue
its stimulus program known as Operation Twist through the end of
2012, disappointing investors betting it would engage in a third
round of asset purchases known as quantitative easing.  “An extension of Operation Twist to the market was a
foregone conclusion and the selloff in the dollar in the last
week or so was pricing that in,” said  Dean Popplewell , an
analyst in Toronto at the online currency-trading firm Oanda
Corp. “The Canadian dollar will go hand-in-hand with risk on-
risk off.”  Canada ’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, fell 0.1 percent to C$1.0183 per
 U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after falling as low as
C$1.0232. It earlier strengthened to C$1.0160, the strongest
since May 22. One Canadian dollar buys 98.20 cents.  Canadian 10-year bonds fell, pushing the yield up two basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.78 percent. The yield
touched 1.615 percent on June 1, the lowest since 1950,
according to Bloomberg and  Bank of Canada  data. The price of the
2.75 percent bonds due in June 2022 dropped 25 cents to
C$108.78.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent and crude
oil for July delivery declined 2.7 percent to $81.75 a barrel
after falling as much as 3.7 percent.  Merkel’s View  Merkel declined to commit to direct sovereign-debt
purchases through the European Financial Stability Facility,
pushing back on calls by euro-region leaders who backed the
measure as a way to ease the crisis.  “There is no concrete planning that I know about, but
there is the possibility of purchasing sovereign bonds on the
secondary market,” Merkel told reporters today in Berlin after
talks with Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte . “But this is a
purely theoretical statement about the legal situation.”  The Fed will extend Operation Twist, a $400 billion program
announced in September and set to expire this month, by $267
billion through the end of the year in a bid to reduce
unemployment and protect the expansion. The program replaces
short-term government debt with the same amount of longer-term
Treasuries.  ‘Additional Steps’  “If we don’t see continued improvement in the labor
market, we’ll be prepared to take additional steps if
appropriate,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a news
conference after the meeting. He said those steps might include
additional asset purchases.  Fed policy makers lowered their central tendency estimate
for U.S. 2012 gross domestic product growth to 1.9 percent to
2.4 percent from 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent in April. Estimates
for 2013 centered around 2.2 percent to 2.8 percent, compared
with 2.7 percent to 3.1 percent in the previous forecast. The
U.S. is Canada’s largest trading partner.  Fifty-eight percent of respondents in a June 18 poll said
the Fed would prolong the program, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of economists. Sixty percent of respondents in the survey
said the Fed probably wouldn’t start a third round of
quantitative easing.  “It was a little disappointing,” said Blake Jespersen,
managing director of foreign exchange institutional sales in
Toronto at  Bank of Montreal. (BMO)  “The market was hoping that
Operation Twist may continue past the end of the year. There
were a few participants that thought maybe there would be some
hint of QE.”  Economic Indicators  The loonie weakened against the majority of its most-traded
peers as Statistics Canada is forecast to report this week that
retail sales and inflation are slowing, keeping a lid on the
prospects for interest- rate  increases.  Canadian retail sales may have risen 0.2 percent in April,
after increasing 0.4 percent the previous month, according to
the median estimate of 22 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before the report tomorrow. Consumer prices expanded 0.1 percent
in May from 0.4 percent growth in April, a separate survey of 23
economists showed.  Statistics Canada  will release the inflation
report June 22.  The Bank of Canada has kept rates at 1 percent since
September 2010. Central bank policy makers said at their June 5
meeting that they may raise  interest rates  as the domestic
economic recovery proceeds as forecast.  The Canadian dollar dropped 0.7 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, while the
greenback fell 0.6 percent and the euro and Swiss franc each
weakened 1.7 percent, the biggest decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in Washington at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  