-- Car Owners Complain Most About Technology in Survey
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-06-20T17:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/car-owners-complain-most-about-technology-in-survey.html
Car owners had the most complaints
about audio, entertainment and navigation features in  J.D. Power 
& Associates’ survey of auto buyers, making such technologies
the biggest source of defects for the first time in the study’s
26 years.  Glitches in those vehicle systems have increased 45 percent
since 2006, while other categories have improved 24 percent on
average, J.D. Power said in its annual U.S. Initial Quality
Study released today. Owner-reported problems with factory-
installed, hands-free communications devices have more than
doubled in the past four years, J.D. Power said.  The features are no longer confined to high-end vehicles as
companies such as  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)  have
built more technology into their latest models. More than 80
percent of new-vehicle owners this year said they had some kind
of hands-free technology, according to J.D. Power.  “Technology is becoming more important as a quality
differentiator,” said  David Sargent , vice president of global
automotive at  Westlake Village , California-based J.D. Power.
“This is really where the battleground is now.”  Ford has said it is working to fix faulty dashboard touch
screens, which contributed to its tumble to 23rd place last year
in J.D. Power’s quality ranking, compared with fifth place in
2010. This year, the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker fell
further, to 27th place.  Ford is also working to better explain to customers how to
use the technology, said Bennie Fowler, vice president of global
quality, in  Michigan  yesterday. The automaker sent a software
fix to 377,000 owners in March, which was too late to be
included in this year’s J.D. Power quality study.  ‘Pretty Frustrated’  Sargent said the issues are often complicated by customer
behavior because people can’t give their full attention to the
technology while driving. While voice recognition software is
improving, people also have varied accents, he said.  “In some cases, the technology is simply not working the
way it should, particularly around things like voice
recognition,” Sargent said. “Customers get pretty frustrated
if they paid for a system that they then find is so frustrating
to operate. They just simply stop using it.”  Technology companies are also working with carmakers to add
features.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  said last week that companies including GM,
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG,  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , may add a button to car steering wheels to quickly
activate Siri, its software that takes voice commands.  J.D. Power said its study was based on surveys of more than
74,000 purchasers of 2012 model-year cars, trucks and SUVs.
Owners answered a 228-question survey about their first 90 days
of ownership. The study was conducted between February and May.
J.D. Power is a unit of McGraw-Hill Cos.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  