-- Casual Restaurant Stocks Rally Even With Weak U.S. Demand
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-06-20T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/casual-restaurant-stocks-rally-even-with-weak-u-s-demand.html
Shares of casual-dining chains are
rallying, even with Americans eating out less, as investors
speculate about acquisitions and prefer holding stocks with
little foreign exposure.  The  Bloomberg U.S. Casual-Dining Restaurant Index (BNUSFSRS)  --
comprised of Darden Restaurants Inc., Brinker International Inc.
and 14 other companies -- has risen 2.7 percent since April 30,
compared with a 2.9 percent decline for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index. Meanwhile, sales at these types of restaurants fell
1.3 percent in May from a year earlier at locations open at
least 16 months where customers pay after a meal, according to
the Knapp-Track Index of monthly restaurant sales. The decline
was the biggest since 2010.  Investors have been drawn to casual-dining shares because
they’re “fearful” of holding companies that have a lot of
business outside the U.S., said Rachael Rothman, a senior
analyst in  Bala Cynwyd ,  Pennsylvania , with Susquehanna Financial
Group. Given risks associated with Europe -- where Spain, Greece
and  Italy  are among the countries in recession -- and  China ’s
slowing growth, investors are “hiding in purely domestic
stocks,” including  Darden (DRI) , Brinker and  Cheesecake Factory Inc. (CAKE) ,
that generate “well over 95 percent” of their revenue in
America, she estimated.  The perception is that “the U.S. might not be great, but
it’s not terrible,” Rothman said. She maintains a “positive”
recommendation on  Orlando , Florida-based Darden. The operator of
 Olive Garden  and Red Lobster is scheduled to release fiscal
fourth-quarter earnings June 22.  ‘Remains Lackluster’  Shares for these types of restaurants may be poised to
underperform because discretionary spending, like dining out,
“remains lackluster,” said Martin Leclerc, principal, chief
investment officer and portfolio manager at Barrack Yard
Advisors in  Bryn Mawr , Pennsylvania. Fickle consumers and
expensive valuations of some companies don’t make them
attractive for investment right now, he said.  Even so, some investors remain bullish because of the
premiums paid in recent acquisitions of  Benihana Inc. (BNHN)  and  P.F.
Chang’s China Bistro Inc. (PFCB) , Leclerc said. The industry is trading
higher than it typically would relative to the  S&P 500  as talk
of more possible deals persists, he said.  “People are speculating that other companies may be taken
out at a big premium relative to their share price,” Leclerc
said. That means these stocks now are overvalued, and given a
demand environment that’s “not great,” Leclerc’s company has
no plans to invest in this industry anytime soon, he said.  Acquisition Boost  Benihana, which operates 95 Japanese-themed and sushi
restaurants in the U.S., agreed May 22 to be taken private by
Angelo, Gordon & Co. in a deal worth about $296 million with an
offer of $16.30 a share. This followed a May 1 deal valued at
about $1.1 billion as competitor P.F. Chang’s agreed to
Centerbridge Partners LP’s offer of $51.50 a share.  Benihana stock jumped  21 percent  on the news to close at
$16.12, up from $13.30 the previous day, while P.F. Chang’s rose
about  30 percent  to close at $51.48 compared with $39.69.  Dining out easily can be postponed, so these types of
restaurants are a “very visible indicator” of what’s happening
in the economy, said Malcolm Knapp, a New York-based consultant
who created the Knapp-Track Index and has monitored the industry
since 1970. Amid declining confidence and with the risk of a so-
called fiscal cliff “top of mind,” consumers don’t have the
appetite to eat away from home as frequently, he said.  Retail Weakness  The U.S. is facing more than $600 billion in higher taxes
and reductions in defense and other government programs in 2013.
U.S. retail sales weakened in May, falling  0.2 percent  and
matching an April decline that previously was reported as a
gain, based on data from the Commerce Department. Meanwhile,
consumer sentiment, measured by the Bloomberg Comfort Index,
fell to  minus 36.4  in the week ended June 10 from a four-year
high of minus 31.4 in April.  “It doesn’t feel like we’re out of a recession for many
middle-class American households,” Knapp said. In what’s become
an “allocation nation,” consumers must choose between
different categories of discretionary spending, and dining out
is “very sensitive” to changing habits, he said.  Rothman lowered her same-store estimates for Darden,
 Brinker (EAT)  and Cheesecake Factory on June 13 because of the slowing
casual-dining results reflected by the Knapp-Track Index. Demand
has had a “sharp deceleration” so far this quarter compared
with the prior period, which creates underperformance risk for
Dallas-based Brinker and Cheesecake Factory, based in Calabasas
Hills,  California  -- one reason for her “neutral”
recommendations on these companies.  Losing Momentum  The recent outperformance of the casual-dining index is
losing momentum, said Jim Stellakis, founder and director of
research at New York-based research company Technical Alpha.
This signals a lack of conviction by investors that these stocks
can rally further, he said.  Darden, the only so-called blue-chip operator in this
industry, is selling at a “reasonable valuation,” Leclerc
said. “But given the economic environment, there may be better
investment opportunities elsewhere.”  The stock is trading at 12.7 times Rothman’s estimate for
fiscal-year 2012 earnings, a 20 percent discount to its peers,
which shows that investors already are factoring in weaker
demand for the company’s meals, she said. Darden reduced its
annual sales-growth forecast to a range of 6 percent to 7
percent on Dec. 6, down from a previous forecast of 6.5 percent
to 7.5 percent, causing the shares to tumble 12 percent that day
to $41.82, the biggest drop since August 2008.  Less Pessimistic  There are some pockets of strength in the industry, Rothman
said, noting that eateries like Cheesecake Factory tend to
appeal to college-educated diners who have a higher income and
are less pessimistic about the economy.  While Leclerc prefers opportunities in other industries, he
understands why some investors are looking to eateries as a
“pure-play” on the U.S., he said. This rationale for owning
these stocks may disappear if investors become “more confident
in having exposure to  Europe  again.”  There could be other risks to their performance as the
November U.S. elections approach and eateries compete for
consumers’ attention in an advertising environment emphasizing
economic risk, Rothman said.  That might further damp demand for dining out, causing
investors once again to “focus on how risky the domestic
operating environment is,” she said. “These stocks could
suffer if fundamentals remain lackluster.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  