-- The World’s Poor Deserve Greener Energy, Too
-- B y   C a r l   P o p e
-- 2012-06-20T22:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/cheap-coal-is-dead-long-live-renewables-part-2-.html
With oil costing close to $100 a
barrel, and most imported Asian  coal  about $120 a ton, fossil
energy costs are crippling emerging economies in  Asia  and
 Africa . Although renewable alternatives are far less costly than
they were even two years ago, they still can’t match the cheap
coal and oil that Asia and Africa had counted on.  Fortunately, if Asia and Africa embrace bottom-up renewable
strategies, they can restrain energy costs, while leapfrogging
dirty energy into the emerging post-fossil global economy. What
are bottom-up strategies? They vary based on markets and
geography. What they share is a realization that not all
electrons are equal; some are worth far more than others,
depending, in part, on their proximity to markets. To make a
renewable revolution low-cost, countries should roll out solar
and wind projects, investing first in those locales where fossil
fuels are most expensive.  There are 1.4 billion people without electricity, most of
whom aren’t expected to have it for decades. These are the
world’s poorest. Counterintuitively, they can best afford the
most sophisticated lighting -- LED lights powered by off-grid
solar panels.  Costly Lighting  The poor already pay a lot for light, mostly from burning
kerosene and candles. The bottom 20 percent of the global income
pyramid pays from 9 percent to 18 percent of the world’s
lighting bill while receiving only 0.1 percent of the benefits.
Over a decade, a poor family may spend $1,500 or more on
kerosene; meanwhile, a decent home solar system would cost just
$300, providing not only light, but mobile-phone charging, fans,
computers, televisions -- all while saving more than $1,000.  Obviously, the economics are compelling. Access to cheap
electricity can increase incomes among the poor by 50 percent,
while improving health and educational outcomes. Increasingly,
cheap electricity will come from renewables: Global coal prices
tripled from 2005 to 2011, and the price of copper more than
doubled.  Two outmoded ideas stand in the way of lighting the world.
One is the grid myth -- the idea that electrification requires
extending a costly grid to every home on the planet. Grid power
requires big, remote power plants, typically fired by coal, and
miles upon miles of copper wire.  The  United Nations  estimates that at least half of
households lacking electricity will need to be served by off-
grid, bottom-up solutions. The government of India says the
comparable figure for Indians is two-thirds. Most of the
proposed emerging-market investment in renewable energy is
nonetheless devoted to big central solar or wind farms -- where
renewables are least competitive.  The second myth is that renewable electrons are expensive
and that the poor need subsidies to pay for them. The two major
ingredients in home solar -- LED lights and solar panels -- have
declined in cost even more rapidly than coal and copper have
surged.  A huge fraction of the power pumped into the grid never
reaches a customer in  India  or Africa. As much as 40 percent can
be lost in transmission. Wiring a remote village in India adds
$0.02 a kilowatt-hour for each kilometer, making local solar
electrons significantly cheaper than those fired by distant coal
plants and transmitted by copper wire.  Financing Options  For the poor, affordability has three dimensions: total
cost, upfront price and payment flexibility. That’s why they
favor kerosene; they can buy a single day’s supply in a bottle.
Solar power comes in a panel that will give 10, even 20, years
of light and power. But many cannot afford a 10-year investment
or qualify for financing, which requires fixed payments
regardless of season. (Of course, the global middle class does
not pay for its electricity upfront, either. When I bought my
house, I did not get a bill for the  power plants  and grid that
serve it. I pay for power monthly, based on how many kilowatt-
hours I use.)  Remote villages are not the only locations suited to low-
carbon alternatives. In African and Indian cities, power
companies routinely “load shed” -- shutting down power to entire
neighborhoods on hot, sunny afternoons when air conditioners
overwhelm the local grid. To protect themselves, businesses and
the middle class rely on dirty, expensive diesel generators,
storing the power in batteries and wasting as much as 25 percent
of the energy in the process.  Rooftop solar panels would generate power reliably -- even
when demand peaks. Moreover, solar power would pay for itself
with savings that would otherwise be squandered on  diesel fuel 
and a leaky grid. Rooftop solar could end the curse of load-
shedding throughout Asia and Africa -- and be profitable. The
customers are waiting. What’s needed are suppliers and
permission from power authorities for consumers to sell their
excess electricity back to the local grid.  Or take irrigation pumping. Farmers lucky (or politically
connected) enough to have access to the grid get cheap, or even
free, power. They just don’t know when. Consequently, they buy
big, cheap, inefficient pumps to flood their fields. Most of the
electricity they use is wasted, along with much of the water
they pump. Water tables are drained.  Reliable, efficient solar pumps, combined with drip
irrigation, can improve crop yields and reduce wasted water and
electricity at a fraction of the cost of forcing remote
megawatts through an inefficient grid. In much of Africa, the
lack of reliable electricity has led to hugely wasteful
irrigation technologies -- or to no irrigation at all.  Solar Solution  Diesel imports are a huge burden in Africa and Asia, with
rural mobile-phone towers among the biggest gluttons. By 2015,
there will be 1.9 million off-grid towers worldwide, all needing
electricity. Replacing diesel with solar, wind or micro-hydro
power would save huge amounts on imported fuel and make phone
service cheaper and more reliable. For smaller towers, this is
an obvious solution. As Joe Madden, principal analyst at Mobile
Experts LLC,  wrote , “In the end, a 500 W solar array and a set
of deep-cycle batteries to last for several days can be roughly
the same cost as a diesel generator, allowing for almost instant
return on investment.”  The end of cheap coal and oil does not eliminate affordable
energy options for emerging economies. It does require them to
revamp their strategies and solve a variety of institutional and
financing challenges they had not previously grappled with.
Bottom-up strategies can be cheap. They can transform  living
standards  in entire villages. But they are rarely simple.  (Carl Pope is a former chairman of the  Sierra Club . The
opinions expressed are his own. )  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View.  Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Operation Fast and Furious 
and on why the  Fed needs to be more aggressive ;  Caroline Baum  on
the mistake  underlying the euro;   Michael Kinsley  on our love-
hate  relationship with leaks ;  Ezra Klein  on the news media’s
dreadful  horse-race coverage.   To contact the writer on this story:
Carl Pope at  carl.pope@insidestraightstrategies.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 