-- BP Wins Oil Leases in U.S. Gulf of Mexico Near Spill Site
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-06-20T20:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/chevron-among-48-bidders-seeking-u-s-leases-near-bp-spill-site.html
BP Plc (BP/)  was the high bidder on 43
leases to drill in the central Gulf of Mexico where two years
ago its Macondo well exploded, causing the largest U.S. offshore
oil spill. The U.S. auction raised $1.7 billion.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  offered $406.6 million, or 24 percent
of all the bids, followed by  Statoil (STL)  ASA with $333.3 million,
the Interior Department said. Stavanger, Norway-based Statoil
bid $157 million for a single tract, a record in the region,
Tommy Beaudreau, director of the department’s Bureau of Ocean
Energy Management, said today. BP’s total bids were $239.5
million.  “As the largest leaseholder in the deep waters of the Gulf
of Mexico, we remain committed to continuing investment in this
important U.S. energy source,”  Scott Dean , a BP spokesman, said
today by phone.  The Obama administration, pressured by Republicans to boost
domestic oil production, auctioned tracts off the coast of
Alabama, Louisiana and Mississippi that it said may produce more
than 1 billion barrels of oil. The previous auction in the
central Gulf, about a month before the April 2010 BP disaster,
raised $949.3 million for the U.S.  BP is acquiring leases in a region where the London-based
company lost control of the Macondo well in a blowout that
destroyed a $365 million drilling rig, killed 11 workers and
spewed about 4.9 million of barrels of oil.  ‘In Business’  “ Gulf of Mexico  is back in business,” Interior Secretary
 Ken Salazar  said as the sale began today in New Orleans. He said
the companies can begin preparing for exploration immediately.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Apache Corp. (APA) , LLOG
Exploration Offshore LLC,  Stone Energy Corp. (SGY) ,  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL) 
and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  were among the 10 biggest bidders, according
to a list posted today on the Interior Department website.  The administration is opening the central Gulf as
Republicans in Congress demand accelerated domestic output to
add jobs and reduce dependence on overseas sources. The BP oil
spill prompted an overhaul of rules for deepwater drilling after
a six-month halt in the Gulf to review safety.  “If we continue to drill in the Gulf of Mexico, especially
in deep water, we will have another spill,” Jacqueline Savitz,
vice president for  North America  at Washington-based
environmental group  Oceana , said in a phone interview today.  Deep Waters  Leases in waters deeper than 1,600 meters (5,250 feet)
accounted for more than 53 percent of all the high bids, or $906
million, and almost 10 times more than tracts in water 400
meters or shallower, according to the Interior Department.  Production in the Gulf region increased 6.2 percent to 1.41
million barrels a day in March, and represented more than a
fifth of the U.S. crude production for the month, according to
 the Energy Department .  With oil trading at about $80 a barrel on global markets,
the Gulf of Mexico is the world’s most profitable place to
produce oil, because other nations set higher taxes on oil
companies, said  Fadel Gheit , an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in
New York.  “Whether it’s the U.K., whether it’s Algeria, Nigeria,
West Africa, Russia, anywhere you go, the effective tax rate is
very high,” Gheit said in an interview. The Gulf “is well
developed, the whole area is basically very well mapped, there
are not too many surprises, the industry has all the services
needed.”  Following the BP disaster, the Interior Department revamped
its oversight of drilling, dividing the leasing function from
enforcement of safety rules and collection of production
royalties. The department also added standards on well design,
casing and cementing, and introduced a requirement for subsea
oil-spill containment system.  A nonprofit group commissioned by the agency also
recommended that U.S. inspectors be allowed to fly to rigs on
company-leases helicopters and live for a time with workers, the
National Research Council said in report released yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  