-- Chinese Silicon Makers Said to Seek Duties on U.S. Rivals
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-20T16:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/chinese-silicon-makers-said-to-seek-duties-on-u-s-rivals.html
Chinese polysilicon makers are
pressing their government to impose duties on U.S. imports, a
move to drive up prices for competing supplies of the material
used in solar panels, four people familiar with the issue said.  Potentially escalating a trade dispute between the world’s
biggest economies,  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) , the largest
supplier of polysilicon, along with  Daqo New Energy Corp. (DQ)  and
other producers presented data to the Ministry of Commerce,
according to the people, who declined to be identified because
the cases are private. The ministry hasn’t accepted the cases, a
step needed for the producers to file anti-dumping complaints
seeking the punitive  import taxes , the people said.  “China’s Ministry of Commerce will consider Sino-U.S.
trade to determine whether to accept the complaints,” Gao
Hongling, deputy secretary-general of the  China Photovoltaic
Industry Alliance , said in an interview. She declined to name
which Chinese companies are involved.  China is the world’s biggest maker of solar panels, a $37
billion global market. The prospect of duties on U.S. silicon
suppliers such as  MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR)  and Hemlock
Semiconductor Corp. raises the stakes in the dispute over solar-
energy equipment, an industry increasingly dominated by China.  The Obama administration last month said it will impose
duties on imports into the American market of Chinese solar
cells, which are the devices made from polysilicon and stitched
together into panels that convert sunlight into electricity.  Unfair Subsidies?  The decision followed an investigation into whether China
was unfairly subsidizing its solar-cell producers and is meant
to offset such aid.     Clean-energy manufacturers in both nations
are struggling with an economic slowdown. The dispute over
government support has added to tensions between them.  A duty on the main ingredient in solar panels may run
counter to the interests of other Chinese companies, said Jenny
Chase, head of solar research for Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “While Chinese silicon manufacturers may be keen for
tariffs on silicon imports from the U.S., the vast majority of
Chinese solar companies buy silicon and so will be fiercely
opposed to any measure that increases the price,” Chase said.  The Asian nation purchased 26,000 tons of polysilicon in
the first four months, valued at $730 million at the current
Chinese spot price, according to the Beijing-based trade group.
The U.S. supplied 44.3 percent of the imports, it says.  GCL-Poly spokeswoman Jessy Fang said in an e-mailed
statement the company had no comment. A call to Daqo New Energy
wasn’t answered.  The current spot price of domestic polysilicon is as much
as $28 a kilogram, while the international price is $26 a
kilogram, according to  China  Nonferrous Metals Industrial
Association, a trade group.  Globally about 215,000 tons were produced last year of the
material, also known as solar-grade silicon, with at least 25
percent from Chinese factories, according to New Energy Finance.
China halted some production, because of cheaper foreign
competition, according to Xie Chen, an analyst at the Nonferrous
Association. He said in February that companies including
Baoding Tianwei had suspended production.  Solar, Wind Energy Loans  The China Development Bank Corp. since 2010 has made
available $47.3 billion in credit, which hasn’t been fully
tapped, to support the country’s wind and solar manufacturers,
according to a New Energy Finance study in October.  The U.S. has aided clean-energy companies with loan
guarantees from the 2009 economic stimulus law and incentives
such as a production tax credit for  wind energy , which ends this
year. The Energy Department has guaranteed about $14.9 billion
in lending for wind- and solar-power initiatives, mainly for
generation, according to the agency.  Polysilicon prices have plunged as output capacity has
soared, particularly in China. Global production capacity is
almost 300,000 tons a year, New Energy Finance estimates.
Hong Kong-based GCL-Poly can make 65,000 tons a year.  The U.S. Commerce Department on May 17 set preliminary
tariffs of as much as 250 percent on imports of Chinese solar
cells. That responded to allegations from companies including
the U.S. unit of Germany’s SolarWorld AG that Chinese-made cells
were being sold at a loss in the U.S.  The Beijing government said on May 25 it filed a complaint
with the  World Trade Organization  alleging that U.S. anti-
subsidy measures undercut $7.3 billion in Chinese goods,
including solar panels.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 Fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  