-- China’s Shares Fall to 1-Week Low, Led by Drugmakers, Developers
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-06-20T07:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/china-stock-index-futures-rise-on-economic-stimulus-speculation.html
China’s stocks  fell to the lowest
level in a week on concern recent rallies for drugmakers and
developers, the best performers among industry groups this past
month, have been excessive as the slowing economy hurts profit.  Shandong Dong-E E-Jiao Co. and Poly Real Estate Group Co.
slid at least 1.6 percent, leading health-care and real estate
companies to the steepest drop among industry groups today.
Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth Hi-Tech Co.,  China ’s
biggest producer of rare earth, jumped the most in a week after
the Economic Information Daily reported the government has
started to draft a plan to consolidate the industry.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 0.3 percent to 2,292.88
at the close, after changing directions at least 12 times. The
 CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  slid 0.2 percent to 2,552.61. China’s markets will
be closed for a holiday on June 22. The  Bloomberg China-US 55
Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, jumped 1.8 percent to the highest level since May 16.  “There are some investors who think the bottom for the
economy hasn’t been reached yet,” said Mao Sheng, an analyst
for Huaxi Securities Co. in Chengdu. “With market liquidity
low, it’s difficult for stocks to rise.”  Speculation that a slowdown in  China’s economy  is deepening
and  Greece  will leave the euro area have dragged the Shanghai
index down by 6.8 percent from this year’s high set on March 2.
The gauge trades for 9.9 times estimated earnings, compared with
the five-year average of 17.8, weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg
showed.  Drugmakers Valuations  A gauge of health-care stocks in the CSI 300 sank 2.2
percent, the most among 10 groups, after outperforming all other
industries in the past month with a 6.4 percent jump. Shandong
Dong-E E-Jiao dropped 4.1 percent to 39.50 yuan. The health-care
index, which rallied on speculation industry earnings are more
resilient in an economic slowdown, trades at 20.3 times
estimated profit, compared with 10.9 for the CSI 300.  A gauge of  property stocks  in the Shanghai Composite slid
0.7 percent today, paring gains over the past month to 4.6
percent. Poly Real Estate, the second-biggest developer, slid
1.6 percent to 11.54  yuan . Gemdale Corp. fell 0.2 percent to
6.82 yuan. Real estate companies have rallied on the prospect of
easier monetary policies.  China announced a cut in  interest rates  on June 7 before
the release of May economic data which showed consumer prices
rose the least in two years while industrial output and retail
sales trailed analysts’ estimates.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics’ flash China
manufacturing PMI for June is scheduled to be announced
tomorrow. The May reading was at 48.4, below the dividing line
of 50 which indicated contraction.  Retailers Gain  Wuhan Department Store Group Co. rose by the daily limit of
10 percent in Shenzhen trading after the China Securities
Regulatory Commission approved shareholders’ plan to buy a stake
in the Chinese retailer at a 44 percent premium. Suning
Appliance Co. advancing 0.3 percent to 8.74 yuan.  Shares of Chinese companies that provide basic consumer
needs and those that offer discretionary products are diverging
by the most in 16 months, a trend that is poised to halt as
China takes steps to boost economic growth. The relationship
between the MSCI China Index’s consumer staples gauge and the
discretionary measure is at the lowest since February 2011, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Consumer Stocks  Valuations of companies that make basic goods “are quite
stretched and competition remains quite fierce, so there are
more csi risks,” Gigi Chan, a  fund manager  at Threadneedle
Investments, which has $123.1 billion in assets under
management, said in a June 14 interview in  Singapore . “We are
finding more interesting ideas in the discretionary space.”  Chinese consumer stocks traded in  New York  rose after the
nation’s commerce minister said  Asia ’s fastest growing economy
is poised for a rebound this month.  Chen Deming  told reporters June 18 in Los Cabos,  Mexico ,
that his country’s economic situation in June is improving
following government measures to shore up consumption. China’s
central bank cut interest rates on June 7 for the first time
since 2008 and has lowered required-reserve requirement ratio
for banks three times since November to spur lending.  “I certainly wouldn’t suggest investors sell Chinese
stocks, and I’m quite happy to build positions gently,” Edmund Harriss, who helps manage a $150 million equity fund at Guinness
Atkinson Asset Management, said by phone yesterday from  London .
“If a policy official says June will look better, it will
probably turn out that way. I’m reasonably optimistic.”  Operation Twist  Signs of slowing growth amid  Europe ’s debt crisis could
mean the  Federal Reserve , which began a two-day meeting
yesterday, will extend its so-called Operation Twist, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Jefferies & Co. The program involves
selling short-term debt and buying longer-term bonds. A more
aggressive response could be warranted if the Fed sees high
costs in an economic slowdown.  The central bank may expand its balance sheet, extend
Operation Twist and/or lengthen its short-term interest rate
guidance beyond late 2014, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief
Economist Jan Hatzius wrote yesterday.  With  Spain  readying a request within days for as much as
100 billion euros ($127 billion) for its struggling banks, euro-
area leaders at a Group of 20 summit in Mexico pledged to take
“all necessary policy measures” to defend the currency union.  Europe is China’s biggest export market, making up about 18
percent of the nation’s overseas sales, according to Shenyin &
Wanguo Securities Co.  Fiscal Policies  China’s fiscal policy should be “really proactive” and
macroeconomic policies should be readjusted in the following
months to sustain faster growth, the  China Daily  cited a
proposal from the Standing Committee of the Chinese People’s
Political Consultative Conference National Committee as saying.  The government will take “concrete measures” to stimulate
consumption by improving efficiency of its logistics and
transportation, the same newspaper cited Huang Hai, a former
assistant minister of commerce, as saying.  Inner Mongolia Baotou advanced 0.9 percent to 43.98 yuan.  China has started drafting a plan to promote consolidation
of the rare-earth industry, the Economic Information Daily
reported, citing an unidentified official from the State-owned
Assets Supervision and Administration Commission.  The iShares FTSE  China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest U.S.-
listed China exchange-traded fund, surged 1 percent yesterday to
a five-week high of $34.90.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  