-- China Lowers Entry Barrier for Overseas Investors
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-21T03:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/china-lowers-entry-barrier-for-overseas-institutional-investors.html
China  plans to lower the entry
barrier for foreign institutional investors looking to buy
publicly traded securities in mainland exchanges, as part of
reforms to add depth to the country’s capital markets.  The government will cut the minimum requirement on assets
under management to $500 million from $5 billion for companies
seeking a license under the Qualified Foreign Institutional
Investor program, the China Securities Regulatory Commission
said in a statement on its website yesterday. The regulator also
said it will allow them to invest in the country’s interbank
bond market.  The changes are “very positive,” Mark McCombe, Asia-
Pacific chairman of BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset
manager, said in  Hong Kong . “I think the underlying objective
is to get more investment into China.”  CSRC Chairman  Guo Shuqing , who took over last year, wants
to restore confidence in the stock market by encouraging entries
of more institutional investors and cracking down on over-
pricing of initial public offering shares and  insider trading .
The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slumped a combined 33
percent in 2010 and 2011.  Introducing more long-term funds from abroad will help
improve market confidence, promote stable growth in China’s
capital markets and provide “robust” investment returns to
domestic investors, the CSRC said on May 18. QFII, introduced in
2002, allows approved foreign investors to buy and sell yuan-
denominated securities.  Stocks Decline  Foreign investors will be required to have at least two
years of operational experience under the new rules, compared
with the current minimum requirement of five years, according to
yesterday’s statement. Qualified investors will also be allowed
to hold a combined maximum 30 percent stake in any single yuan-
denominated stock, compared with 20 percent previously, the CSRC
said.  “The government wants to attract more investors and
liquidity into the market,” said Chen Liqiu, a strategist at
Jianghai Securities Co. in  Shanghai .  The Shanghai Composite has dropped 6.8 percent from this
year’s high set on March 2 on concerns about the country’s
slowing economic growth. China’s manufacturing may shrink for
an eighth month in June, according to a report today from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.  Valuation Gap  The Shanghai gauge has erased nearly two thirds of its
value since its peak in October 2007. China’s 50 million
individual investors lost an average of 40,000  yuan  last year,
according to a May 9 People’s Daily report. The Shanghai index
slid 1 percent to 2,271.04 as of 10:32 a.m. local time, heading
for its lowest close since March 30.  Chen said the move to lower the entry threshold for
overseas investors may have limited effects on the market
because valuations of yuan-denominated shares are not attractive
as Chinese equities in other overseas markets.  Stocks in the Shanghai measure are valued at 9.89 times
estimated earnings, compared with the multiple of 7.65 times for
the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Hong Kong-listed
Chinese companies, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “Foreign investors may find more appeal with H-shares as
their valuations are lower,” Chen said.  Chinese insurers and brokerages will benefit most from the
regulator’s plan to expand overseas investors because of
potential capital inflows, Hui Miao, an analyst at Deutsche Bank
AG, wrote in a note dated yesterday.  CSRC Reforms  CSRC’s Guo has increased the amount of stocks foreign
investors can buy in the otherwise-closed market, urged listed
companies to pay more cash dividends to shareholders and made
changes in how initial public offerings are priced.  The CSRC and the country’s two exchanges, in Shanghai and
Shenzhen, have also announced plans to cut transaction costs for
stock purchases and sales, and tightened accounting scrutiny on
companies that are facing delisting.  The regulator has awarded 172 licenses to foreign investors
under the QFII program so far, among which 145 have been given a
quota, according to yesterday’s statement. Public feedback is
being sought for the revisions, it said.  “I think what’s happening in the regulatory environment is
very positive,” McCombe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bloomberg News in Shanghai at 
 emailtv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  