-- China Money Rate Climbs to Six-Week High Ahead of Quarter-End
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-20T09:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/china-money-rate-climbs-to-six-week-high-ahead-of-quarter-end.html
China’s money-market rate jumped to
the highest level in six weeks on speculation banks will hoard
cash as they prepare to meet quarter-end  capital requirements .  The finance ministry sold at least 30 billion  yuan  ($4.7
billion) of 10-year bonds at an average yield of 3.3958 percent,
according to a trader at a  finance company  that participates in
government debt auctions. That compared with the median estimate
of 3.40 percent in a Bloomberg survey. The central bank cut the
benchmark lending  rate  by 25 basis points on June 8 to help
boost lending and support growth.  “China’s banks probably have extended a big amount of
loans this month, so they need more capital to meet quarter-end
loan-deposit ratio requirements,” said Hu Hangyu, a bond
analyst at Citic Securities Co., the nation’s third-biggest
brokerage by assets.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, increased 44 basis points to 3.45 percent
as of 4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average
rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. That was
the highest level since May 9.  “The repo probably won’t rise to a level of more than 3.50
percent because demand for cash will ease in early July,” Hu
said.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, dropped one
basis point to 2.67 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The yield on the 3.51 percent government bond due February
2022 was unchanged at 3.41 percent, according to the Interbank
Funding Center.  --Judy Chen. Editors: Ven Ram, James Regan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 