-- Chinese Equities to Beat U.S. Stocks by 15%, Says Skandia
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-06-21T10:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/chinese-equities-to-beat-u-s-stocks-by-15-says-skandia.html
The big gains this year for equity
investors will come from China, and not the U.S., as the world’s
second-largest economy manages a soft landing with the help of
easier credit and lower  interest rates , according to Skandia
Investment Group.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland stocks
will rally 15 percentage points more than the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index, the U.S. benchmark, said Rupert Watson, the
Southampton, England-based head of  asset allocation  at Skandia,
which oversees about $13 billion. The gains will be more if the
euro-area sovereign-debt crisis is contained, he said.  “We’re heavily overweight on Chinese stocks,” Watson said
in a telephone interview. “We believe China is in the process
of a soft landing. Economic growth will probably bottom in the
second quarter, with stronger growth in the second half,
supported by further loosening of monetary and fiscal policy.
Favorable valuations are also positive for the stocks.”  The China Enterprise Index has  trailed  the  S&P 500  by 9
percentage points so far this year, as investors concerned by
the worsening debt crisis in  Europe  turned to  U.S. stocks . The
Chinese gauge has dropped 17 percent from its 2012 peak on Feb.
29, as the country’s first-quarter  economic growth  missed
estimates and demand for its goods slid in Europe.  Stimulus Optimism  Chinese stocks have rallied 3.7 percent since June 7 when
the People’s Bank of China cut benchmark lending and deposit
rates for the first time since 2008. The S&P 500 has risen 3.3
percent during this period.  A quarterly central bank survey of 3,000 bankers in China,
published on June 19, found that more than two-thirds of
respondents considered the current monetary policy
“appropriate.” Almost a third said monetary policy will be
loosened next quarter, compared with 6.7 percent who said so in
the previous survey.  “In  China , the authorities have plenty of flexibility to
loosen both monetary and fiscal policies to boost economic
growth if that is necessary,” Watson said. “In contrast,
interest rates and bond yields are at rock bottom levels in the
U.S., while there is little or no scope to loosen fiscal
policy.”  A purchasing managers’ index from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics gave a preliminary reading of 48.1 for June.
Readings below 50 indicate contraction.  Companies on the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index traded
at 7.67 times estimated earnings on average yesterday, compared
with 13 times for the S&P 500 and 10.5 times for the  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index (SXXP) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Outlook  The  Federal Reserve  reduced its benchmark interest rate
almost to zero in December 2008 and later bought $2.3 trillion
in securities to push longer-term borrowing costs lower. In
January, it said it would keep rates near zero at least through
late 2014. After the Fed announced a plan on Sept. 21 to extend
the average maturity of the securities in its portfolio, the
yield on the 10-year Treasury has fallen, reaching a record low
1.4387 percent on June 1.  The U.S. will face a so-called fiscal cliff at the end of
2012 when income tax breaks expire and about $1 trillion in
automatic spending cuts take effect.  Watson has a neutral stance on European equities and is
underweight on U.S. stocks.  American equities gained so far this year largely because
investors turned skeptical of European shares amid surging
borrowing costs for the region’s most-indebted nations and
political uncertainty in  Greece , Watson said. If the crisis
abates, European markets will rebound more than other markets.  Global investors have increased their holdings in U.S.
stocks to the third-highest level on record, a Bank of America
Corp. survey showed on June 12. A net 31 percent of respondents
said they were overweight on U.S. equities, up from 26 percent
in May.  “We think too many investors are too bullish on the U.S.
market and too bearish on the European one,” he said. “We
think it’s dangerous to heavily underweight a market that
everyone hates and where valuations are very cheap. Especially
with sentiment on the  euro zone  at rock bottom, there is scope
for European markets to outperform other developed markets if
these very low expectations are beaten.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  