-- China Asked to Investigate Death of Nigerian in Police Custody
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-20T02:44:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/china-asked-to-investigate-death-of-nigerian-in-police-custody.html
Nigeria asked  China  to investigate
allegations that police in the southern city of Guangzhou used
“high-handed” tactics in arresting a Nigerian citizen who
later died in custody, the embassy said today.  Witnesses say Celestine Elebechi, born in 1984, fell into a
coma after he was beaten on June 18 as he intervened in a
dispute between a Chinese motorcycle driver and another
Nigerian,  Ademola Oladele , minister for public information at
Nigeria’s embassy, said by phone. Once police arrived, Elebechi
was taken into custody instead of being hospitalized, he said.  Hundreds of Africans in Guangzhou blocked traffic and
surrounded the police station to protest Elebechi’s death and
demand an investigation, Oladele said. Foreigners in the city,
which is a hub for African traders and entrepreneurs including
almost 10,000 Nigerians, have complained of discrimination there
in the past, he said.  “Naturally, nationals and concerned citizens want to go
onto the streets to protest this high-handedness,” Oladele
said. ‘If it happens to Nigerian today it could happen to
another African tomorrow. When there’s a protest today it’s a
pent-up reaction.’’  Nigeria  will demand that its experts be allowed take part
in Elebechi’s autopsy, Oladele said.  China is investigating the death of a foreigner in police
custody “according to the law,” Guangzhou’s Public Security
Bureau said yesterday, according to  a statement  on its website.
A man “lost consciousness suddenly” and died after being taken
to a police station following a dispute with a motorcycle owner,
according to the statement.  “All should abide by the law of China, no one should harm
public interests or damage public order,” the statement said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  