-- Citigroup Faces $5 Billion Hit on Dollar’s Rise
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-06-20T19:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/citigroup-may-take-5-billion-hit-on-forex-peabody-says.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s book value could
take a $3 billion to $5 billion “hit” this quarter as
currencies in some of its biggest markets decline against the
 U.S. dollar , said Charles Peabody of Portales Partners LLC.  The  Mexican peso  and the Brazilian real are among
currencies that have weakened, which could lead to “value
destruction” for Citigroup, according to Peabody, an analyst
for New York-based Portales who was interviewed today by  Tom Keene  on “ Bloomberg Surveillance .” The bank disputed Peabody’s
conclusion in an e-mailed statement.  Citigroup, ranked third by assets among U.S. lenders,
relies on developing nations for more than half its profit as
Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  pushes deeper into regions
such as Latin America and  Asia . The New York-based bank has an
“intense focus on capturing emerging-market trade,” Pandit,
55, told shareholders in a March 9 letter.  Peabody based his comments on a June 18 analysis of
Citigroup’s foreign revenues from more than half a dozen
“influential  geographies ” and what they’re worth when
converted into dollars from currencies ranging from the British
pound and Turkish lira to the Korean won.  There have been “extreme movements” in some of these
markets in the second quarter, including the Mexican peso, the
Brazilian real, the  Indian rupee  and the Polish zloty, he wrote.
The peso and Turkish lira had the biggest impact on currency
translation adjustments in the first quarter, he said, citing
Citigroup’s quarterly filings.  Currency Movement  “We know that the extreme volatility that was experienced
in several key Citigroup currencies during the month of May 2012
will likely produce a multibillion hit to Citigroup’s book
value,” Peabody wrote to clients this week. “The stronger U.S.
dollar, a trend we expect to continue into 2013, should present
itself as a formidable headwind to the creation of value.”  The currencies have slid as the  European debt crisis 
threatens economic growth and investors flee to the safest
assets, which include those denominated in dollars. Other large
U.S. lenders such as  Bank of America Corp.  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
don’t face the same risks as New York-based Citigroup because
they are focused more on domestic markets, Peabody said.  Citigroup had  $1.7 billion  of currency-related gains in
other comprehensive income for the first quarter and $3.52
billion of losses for all of 2011.  Earnings Effect  Because of accounting rules, currency movements won’t
reduce Citigroup’s reported net income. Losses or gains on
adjustments for foreign exchange appear in “other comprehensive
income,” which typically is reported separately from the income
statement, said Roman Weil, an accounting professor at the
University of Chicago Booth School of Business. This affects
book value, a measure of the bank’s worth in a theoretical
liquidation after liabilities are subtracted from assets.  “It affects  shareholders’ equity , it affects shareholders’
wealth,” Weil said. “For a bank, when book value goes down, it
means you’re willing to pay less for your share of stock.”  The bank said its operations in  emerging markets  will
create  shareholder value , not destroy it. The gross domestic
product of such markets should expand by almost 6 percent
annually over the next five years, compared with 2 percent for
developed markets, Pandit  said  in March.  Global Impact  “Citi’s unique global footprint and exposure to the higher
economic growth regions of the world will drive above-average
book value growth over time,” Jon Diat, a Citigroup spokesman,
said in an e-mail. “The suggestion that having non-U.S.
exposure is somehow detrimental to Citi’s ability to continue to
grow value over time is simply wrong.”  Peabody changed his rating on Citigroup shares to sell from
buy in March. The bank is a “value trap” with no likely
shareholder return in 2012, he said. He has predicted a global
slowdown this year and a recession in 2013. Only four other
analysts tracked by Bloomberg have  sell ratings  on Citigroup,
with 21 recommending purchase.  Some of the most important swings have happened with
currencies in  Latin America , where Pandit boosted retail loans
by 21 percent to $26.1 billion at the end of March, Peabody
said. The Mexican peso had the biggest decline in May versus the
dollar, declining 10.5 percent -- the most since September.  Mexican Holdings  Citigroup’s stake in Mexico was $29.5 billion at the end of
2011, including loans, investment securities and trading assets,
according to an  annual filing . This is the bank’s third-biggest
single concentration of credit risk, the filing shows.  The Turkish lira fell 6.3 percent versus the dollar in May,
the most since September. Citigroup forecasters expect the lira
to weaken to 1.87 per dollar in the third quarter, compared with
the median of 1.81 lira from 22 forecasters in a Bloomberg News
survey.  In  Brazil , where Citigroup had about  $7.9 billion  of
consumer loans at the end of March, the nation’s real is the
worst-performing major currency against the dollar so far this
year. It weakened 9.5 percent as the nation’s economy
unexpectedly contracted in the first quarter.  In Pandit’s home country of  India , where Citigroup has
about $7 billion in consumer loans, the rupee declined 6 percent
against the dollar in May. That was its worst performance
against the greenback since November.  Foreign exchange strategists at Citigroup expect the dollar
to maintain its gains against the Brazilian real and the rupee
in the third quarter and further its advance against the peso.  The real will trade at 2.02 per dollar in the third
quarter, according to Citigroup’s foreign exchange strategists,
compared with 2.03 at current levels. The Indian currency will
trade at 54.20 per dollar versus 56.33 this month and  Mexico ’s
peso will fetch 14 per dollar compared with 13.7 today,
according to the bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  