-- Cohn Says Europe Needs Lehman-Like Moment to Spur Action
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2012-06-20T15:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/cohn-says-europe-needs-lehman-like-moment-to-spur-action-1-.html
European policy makers are unlikely
to solve the region’s sovereign-debt problem unless they have a
crisis “moment” like Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008
bankruptcy, said Gary D. Cohn, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s
president and chief operating officer.  “My personal view is we’re going to need a moment”
because the issues are political, Cohn, 51, said in an interview
with  Erik Schatzker  on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”
“Politicians sometimes need the moment in order to do what they
need to do.”  The 17 countries that share the euro must find ways to
support economic growth in the weaker members, Cohn said, adding
that austerity programs don’t support that kind of expansion.
Group of 20 officials meeting in Los Cabos,  Mexico , this week
pressed European leaders to step up measures that might contain
the crisis.  “The easiest way to do it if you keep the euro together is
you’re going to have to lower the value of the euro,” he said.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, is
trying to position itself for an increase in capital-markets
business in  Europe (GS)  as banks pull back from lending, Cohn said.
Goldman Sachs needs employees in  Europe  to help win business
from a wider variety of clients, he said.  “We think the biggest opportunities for us right now are
in Europe,” Cohn said. “The most important resource we need in
Europe right now is human capital.”  Head Count  Although Goldman Sachs has cut jobs to align costs with
declining revenue, Cohn said today that he doesn’t expect the
New York-based company to shrink much more. Goldman Sachs
employed  32,400 people  at the end of March, down 8 percent from
a year earlier.  “I don’t think we’re going to be that much smaller,” Cohn
said, adding that the company doesn’t want to reduce the number
of clients it covers or pare back on research. “The sales and
trading world -- that’s a world where we’re going to have to
figure out what the right size is.”  Goldman Sachs has been successful at adapting its business
to changing environments over its 140-year history, Cohn said.
He said the bank has grown significantly since its initial
public offering in 1999, for instance.  “Go back and read our IPO prospectus,” he said. “You’ll
be shocked at how small we were relative to where we are
today.”  JPMorgan’s Loss  Goldman Sachs has  dropped  about 25 percent since March 26
in  New York  trading as investors became more concerned Europe’s
debt crisis would intensify and analysts cut profit outlooks for
banks. JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s $2 billion trading loss, announced
May 10, has led some analysts to predict regulators will craft
tougher rules to keep lenders from making speculative bets.  “It’s not good for us to have JPMorgan going through what
they’re going through,” Cohn said. “The best thing for all of
us is to be in an industry that’s respected.”  Goldman Sachs is adapting to new capital requirements by
“rolling off” trading positions that account for about $88
billion in risk-weighted assets, Cohn said. The  Federal Reserve ,
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency published a revised set of  capital requirements  for
U.S. banks on June 7.  Goldman Sachs probably will earn $2.03 a share in the
second quarter, according to the average estimate of 25 analysts
 surveyed  by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Schatzker in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  