-- Colombian Peso Holds at Two-Week High as Fed Extends Stimulus
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-06-20T19:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/colombian-peso-holds-at-two-week-high-as-fed-extends-stimulus.html
Colombia ’s peso held at a two-week
high after the  Federal Reserve  said it will expand its current
stimulus program.  The peso was little changed today at 1,770.35 per dollar,
the strongest level on a closing basis since June 7. It has
gained 9.5 percent this year, the best performance among all of
the 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The Fed will extend its program to replace its holdings of
short-term bonds with longer-term debt through the end of the
year as policy makers lowered their outlook for growth and
employment. The program, known as Operation Twist, was set to
expire this month.  “The Fed announced Operation Twist as expected,” said
Juan Camilo Santana, an analyst at Cia. de Profesionales de
Bolsa SA brokerage in Bogota. “People will now focus their
attention back to  Europe .”  Euro-area leaders at the Group of 20 summit in Mexico
yesterday pledged to take “all necessary policy measures” to
defend the currency union as world leaders endorsed a road map
for tighter integration to cut borrowing costs and prevent
further damage to the global economy. European Union leaders
will hold a summit in Brussels on June 28-29.  Colombia’s peso will trade near 1,775 per  U.S. dollar  this
year as the nation’s trade surplus supports the currency’s
outperformance among peers, Barclays Capital Inc. said.  ‘Appreciation Pressures’  “As long as the oil price (Brent) remains at least close
to $100 per barrel, it is likely to remain supportive of the
 trade surplus ,” Barclays Latin America analysts Alejandro
Arreaza and  Alejandro Grisanti  wrote in a report today.
“Capital flows are expected to remain relatively stable,
supported mainly by foreign direct investment in the commodities
sector.”  The peso will strengthen toward 1,750 next year, the
analysts wrote.  Should global conditions improve, pushing gains in the
Colombian currency, “appreciation pressures will be contained
by intervention,” Arreaza and Grisanti wrote.  Colombia has been less successful than other countries in
the region at curbing currency gains, Echeverry told lawmakers
last week. More central bank intervention in  currency markets  is
compatible with low and stable inflation, he said.  Central bank chief Jose Dario Uribe said in an interview
last week that Colombia wants a weaker  exchange rate  and that
policy makers won’t rule out bigger dollar purchases. The bank’s
next monetary policy meeting is scheduled for June 29.  Banco de la Republica has said it will buy a minimum of $20
million daily in the  spot market  until at least Nov. 2, while
the government is keeping abroad dividends from state-run oil
company Ecopetrol SA to avoid strengthening the peso.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 7.04 percent, according to the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  