-- Colombia Speeds Oil Permits That Threaten Output Target
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-06-20T22:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/colombia-speeds-oil-permits-posing-threat-to-production-targets.html
Colombia ,  South America ’s third-
largest crude supplier, is speeding environmental permitting for
 oil companies  as delays threaten to derail an output target of 1
million barrels a day this year, the nation’s regulator said.  Fields awaiting permits include Rubiales, the nation’s
largest, said Orlando Cabrales, president of the state-run oil
regulator the  National Hydrocarbons Agency , in an interview
yesterday in Bogota. The field is owned by state-run Ecopetrol
SA and  Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE)   “There is an action plan within the government to see if
the licenses can go out as fast as possible,” Cabrales said
from the agency’s headquarters. “We’ve already identified the
critical licenses.”  Delays in awarding permits and guerrilla attacks against
oil pipelines have slowed production this year in Colombia, said
Omar Escorcia, an analyst at Asesores en Valores SA in Bogota.  Some permits already are being expedited, according to
Cabrales. The government is taking steps after an increase in
the number of companies seeking permits to expand exploration
and production, and stricter environmental rules, doubled wait
times for licenses in some cases, he said.  Shares of  Ecopetrol (ECOPETL)  gained 0.7 percent to close at 5,460
pesos in Bogota at 3:00 p.m., compared with a 0.2 percent drop
in the nation’s IGBC general stock index.  Bottleneck in Permits  A bottleneck in permits is slowing exploration for new
reserves, said  Rupert Stebbings , managing director at Celfin
Capital in Colombia, by phone today from Medellin.  “There’s a limited amount they can do in the short term
since we’re already in June,” he said. “It’s not like they can
move 200 licenses next week. The holdup is industrywide.”  Pacific Rubiales expects delays in environmental permits to
be resolved in the third quarter, company President Jose
Francisco Arata said in an interview today broadcast on the
website of Bogota-based newspaper La Republica.  Shares slid 2.2 percent to close at 40,020 pesos in Bogota.  Colombia will need new oil discoveries to repeat a surge in
production that almost doubled the nation’s output since 2006,
Cabrales said.  Production jumped 73 percent to an average of 914,000
barrels a day last year from 529,000 barrels a day in 2006,
which enabled the nation to surpass  Argentina  as South America’s
third-largest oil producer, according to government figures.
Brazil and  Venezuela  are South America’s largest oil producing
nations.  To increase investment, Colombia will auction rights to 115
oil and natural-gas blocks this year, including areas with
reserves of unconventional energy like oil shale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  