-- Commodities Slump on ‘Modest Disappointment’ After Fed Decision
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-06-20T17:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/commodities-slump-on-modest-disappointment-after-fed-decision.html
Commodities fell, heading for the
biggest decline since June 1, amid disappointment from some
investors that the  Federal Reserve  didn’t do more to stimulate
economic growth.  The central bank said today it will extend its monetary
stimulus further while declining to expand its asset purchases
to bolster the economy. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of
24 commodities slumped 1.8 percent to 575.51 at 1:40 p.m. in  New
York . A close at that level would mark the biggest loss since
June 1. Coffee, crude oil, cotton and cocoa led the declines.
Gold headed for the biggest loss in almost two weeks.  Fed policy makers said they will expand a program to
replace short-term bonds with longer term debt by $267 billion
through the end of the year in a move to lower unemployment and
spur expansion. The central bank purchased $2.3 trillion in
assets through June 2011 in two rounds known as quantitative
easing.  “The sell-off here is modest disappointment that they
didn’t launch into full blown QE3,” Anthony Valeri, a market
strategist in  San Diego  at  LPL Financial , which oversees $350
billion, said in a telephone interview. “So, you’re seeing gold
and oil down a little bit further than expected.”  Gold, oil  Gold futures for August delivery fell 0.6 percent to
$1,614.20 an ounce on the Comex in New York. A close at that
level would be the biggest slide for a most-active contract
since June 7.  Crude oil for July delivery fell 3 percent to $81.50 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The July contract
expires at the close of trading today. The more actively traded
August contract dropped 2.9 percent to $81.87.  Policy makers led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  left
unchanged their view that economic conditions will probably
warrant keeping  interest rates  “exceptionally low” at least
through late 2014. The FOMC has kept the main  interest rate  in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Additional monetary easing is still “on the table,”
according to Valeri who said he thinks there’s a 60 percent
probability of QE3 over the course of 2012.  The Fed said in the statement today that it is “prepared
to take further action as appropriate to promote a stronger
economic recovery and sustain improvement in labor market
conditions in a context of  price stability .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  