-- Company Yield Spreads in Euro Peripheral Nations Soar to Record
-- B y   L o u i s e   M e e s o n
-- 2012-06-20T10:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/company-yield-spreads-in-euro-peripheral-nations-soar-to-record.html
Company bond yield spreads in the
euro-zone’s peripheral countries surged to records versus
benchmark government debt as the sovereign crisis infects
corporate borrowers.  The extra yield investors demand to hold bonds of companies
in countries such as  Spain  and  Italy  instead of German
government debt widened 56 basis points in the past week to 419,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Periphery Non-Financial
Index. The gap has increased from an eight-month low of 241
basis points, or 2.41 percentage points, on March 20.  “It’s overdue,” said Geraud Charpin, a  fund manager  at
Bluebay Asset Management Ltd. in London which oversees $42
billion. “If a country is in major trouble it’s going to have
an impact on corporate borrowing and credit ratings. You can’t
disassociate the sovereign risk from the corporate risk.”  Concern is building that companies will struggle to meet
debt payments as the worsening fiscal crisis sends the euro
region into a recession. Spain, which requested as much as 100
billion euros to support its banks on June 9, saw its government
bond yields soar this week to levels at which  Greece ,  Portugal 
and Ireland needed bailouts.  The value in dollars of the 128 bonds in Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s peripheral companies index fell $2 billion this
month to $147 billion. The decline pushed the average yield to
5.1 percent from 4.55 percent, according to the gauge of 128
bonds issued by companies including Spain’s Red Electrica Corp.
SA and  Telecom Italia SpA. (TIT)   Bond Losses  Peripheral country corporate bonds lost 2 percent this
month, more than the 0.1 percent loss on a broader index of
European investment-grade corporate debt, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show. High-yield, or junk, securities
returned 0.8 percent since the end of May.  Yield spreads on peripheral country corporate bonds are
still less than the 491 basis-point premium investors demand to
hold securities issued by the governments of Spain, Italy,
Ireland, Portugal and Greece, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data
show. The last time the countries’ government debt yielded less
than company bonds was April 2010.  Spanish government notes rose as the nation met its maximum
target at a bill auction today. Yields on the country’s 10-year
bonds fell 12 basis points to 7.04 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Meeson in  London  at 
 lmeeson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  