-- Connecticut, Nine Other Basketball Teams Banned From Postseason
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/connecticut-is-among-10-basketball-teams-banned-from-postseason.html
The  University of Connecticut  and
nine other men’s basketball teams are ineligible for the 2012-13
postseason for failing to meet required academic standards.  The National Collegiate Athletic Association yesterday
released its latest four-year Academic Progress Rates, or APR,
which are based on scores from the 2007-11 academic years. A
total of 15 teams face postseason bans: 10 men’s basketball
programs, three football teams, one men’s soccer team and one
wrestling squad.  “Just as a team needs a winning record to make the
playoffs or the tournament, they need a winning record in the
classroom as well,” NCAA President  Mark Emmert  said in a
statement.  Connecticut , which won its most recent NCAA men’s
basketball title in 2011, scored 889, short of the NCAA’s
requirement of 900 in the APR, which are based on the
eligibility and retention of each athlete on scholarship. The
threshold in the next few years will climb to 930 (out of 1,000),
which equates to a 50 percent graduation success rate.  California State-Bakersfield, Jacksonville State,
Mississippi Valley State, Texas A&M-Corpus Christi,  Towson
University , Arkansas-Pine Bluff, University of California-
Riverside, the University of North Carolina-Wilmington and the
University of Toledo also face postseason basketball bans.  Connecticut previously lost an appeal to the NCAA for a
waiver on its postseason ban. Huskies Athletic Director Wade
Manuel said he still wants the NCAA to consider whether to
implement the postseason ban. He added that the basketball team
had an APR score of 978 during its championship season and that
the change in legislation for penalties “gave the illusion”
that schools had time to adjust to the new requirements.  Approach Questioned  “The approach to APR marks the first time in the history
of the NCAA that it has ever implemented an academic rule
significantly impacting current student-athletes without
allowing the members time to adjust to the adoption of the
legislation,” Manuel said in a statement.  The NCAA said the most recent four-year APR average for
Division I schools is 973, up three points from last year. The
average in men’s basketball is 950, up five points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  