-- Gevo Probably Didn’t Infringe Butamax Patent, Judge Rules
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-06-20T16:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/court-rules-in-favor-of-gevo-in-preliminary-injunction-hearing.html
Gevo Inc. probably didn’t infringe a
patent held by Butamax Advanced Biofuels LLC, a joint venture of
 DuPont Co. (DD)  and  BP Plc (BP/) , and is free to sell its renewable-fuel
products, a judge said in a pretrial ruling. Gevo surged as much
as 59 percent.  Butamax sued Gevo, backed by the oil refiner  Total SA (FP)  and
specialty-chemicals maker  Lanxess AG (LXS) , in 2011 alleging misuse of
technology for genetically engineered microorganisms used to
produce biofuels. U.S. District Judge Sue Robinson, in a ruling
filed yesterday, denied Butamax’s request for a preliminary
injunction to block Gevo’s fuel sales.  “The court finds it unlikely that plaintiff will prevail
on its claim of infringement” at trial, Robinson wrote in a 25-
page opinion in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware . She also
said that Gevo “raised a substantial question concerning
validity” of two patent claims based on earlier inventions.  Gevo, based in Englewood,  Colorado , is involved in several
patent  lawsuits  with Wilmington-based Butamax. Gevo built a
biofuels plant in Luverne,  Minnesota , to produce renewable
additives to be sold to oil refiners that make diesel and jet
fuel. The Minnesota plant can also produce ethanol, according to
court papers.  Sell Fuels  Based on the ruling, Gevo may sell fuels “in any market,
to any customer, in any region,” the company said in a
statement today. Butamax officials said they plan to appeal.  “This is an early step in a long and complex litigation
process,” Paul Beckwith, the company’s chief executive officer,
said in a e-mailed statement. “We remain highly confident in
the ultimate outcome of this case and our other cases against
Gevo.”  Gevo rose 29 percent to $7.66 at 12:11 p.m.  New York  time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares earlier reached
$9.44, the highest since May 3. Dupont rose 4 cents to $51.10 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  New patents Gevo has secured on technology for genetically
engineered microorganisms should give it a “significant cost
advantage” in the animal-feed market, Rob Stone, an analyst at
Cowen & Co. in Boston, said in a research note today,  “We need to make sure we protect our intellectual
property, so when Butamax is infringing, we’ve filed suit to
protect that, and we’ll continue with that,” Brett Lund, Gevo’s
general counsel, said today in a telephone call with investors.
A trial over the patent claims is set for April 1, 2013,
according to court dockets.  The case is Butamax Advanced Biofuels LLC v.  Gevo Inc. (GEVO) , 11-
cv-54, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  