-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall on Extension of Fed’s Operation Twist
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-06-20T21:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/credit-swaps-in-u-s-poised-to-fall-to-lowest-level-in-a-month.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate
debt risk declined as the  Federal Reserve  said it will extend
its program to reduce borrowing costs, known as Operation Twist,
through the end of the year.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
1.5 basis points to a mid-price of 113.9 basis points at 5:36
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the lowest level since the measure closed at 108.6 basis
points on May 11.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said today in Washington
that it will expand its program to replace short-term bonds with
longer-term debt by $267 billion through the end of the year.
The current Operation Twist was set to expire this month. Fed
policy makers maintained their view that economic conditions
will probably warrant “exceptionally low”  interest rates  at
least through late 2014.  The Fed “could have done more, but I think they’re still
holding back,”  Mirko Mikelic , a  money manager  at Fifth Third
Asset Management in Grand Rapids, Michigan, said in a telephone
interview. “The data are not showing that we’re completely
reverting back into a recession.”  Asset Purchases  In a news conference following the FOMC statement, Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank will consider
additional stimulus, including asset purchases, if employment
stalls. U.S. employers hired 69,000 workers in May, the fewest
in a year, as the  unemployment rate  climbed to 8.2 percent from
8.1 percent, Labor Department data showed.  “If we don’t see continued improvement in the labor
market, we’ll be prepared to take additional steps if
appropriate,” Bernanke said at the news conference.  The swaps measure rose briefly after the FOMC announcement,
probably on speculation that expectations of potential large-
scale bond purchases from the Fed, or quantitative easing, had
caused the index to decline more than warranted, according to
Peter Tchir, founder of New York-based hedge fund TF Market
Advisors.  The swaps gauge typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  