-- Croatian GDP Contracts for Second Quarter as Crisis Damps Demand
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-06-20T08:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/croatian-gdp-contracts-for-second-quarter-as-crisis-damps-demand.html
Croatia’s economy contracted for a
second consecutive quarter as capital investments declined and
Europe’s debt crisis lowered demand for exports.  Economic output fell 1.3 percent from the same period a
year ago, matching the preliminary figure released on May 31,
the  statistics office  in Zagreb said today. Gross domestic
product shrank 0.4 percent in the previous quarter from a year
earlier.  “This trend will continue as we expect a further fall in
 capital investment  coupled with weak domestic demand,” Zdeslav Santic, chief economist at  Soc-Gen Splitska Banka d.d. , said
before the data report. The decline was softened by a temporary
rise in personal consumption in the first quarter, as citizens
prepared for a VAT increase to 25 percent from 23 percent from
March 1, he added.  The Adriatic Sea nation, which is set to become the
European Union’s 28th member in July 2013, is struggling to
recover from two years of recession and a period of stagnation
in 2011.  Government consumption declined 1.5 percent in the first
quarter, while gross fixed capital formation decreased 2.8
percent and household demand dropped 0.3 percent, the statistics
office said in the statement.  The government plans to boost competition and domestic
demand to limit the effects of  Europe ’s debt crisis and allow
the economy to grow 0.8 percent this year, Finance Minister
Slavko Linic said on Jan. 31. Central bank Governor Zeljko Rohatinski and the  World Bank  predicted the economy will shrink
1 percent this year.  The government in January also proposed 4 billion kuna
($673.4 million) in budget cuts to narrow the deficit to 3.8
percent of GDP from 5.5 percent in 2011. In addition it said it
will lower expenditures in the public sector and reduce
subsidies for state companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  