-- Dubrovnik’s Delayed Villas Highlight Obstacles for Barclays
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-06-21T14:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/development-in-dubrovnik-means-seven-year-wait-for-barclays-fund.html
Seven years after a group of
investors represented by Barclays Plc and Equity Trust (Jersey)
Ltd. bought land for building on Croatia’s coast, their plan to
build 26 villas in the hills above Dubrovnik remains on hold.  Three levels of government must still sign off on the 36
million-euro ($46-million) project. The biggest obstacle: The
development mustn’t be visible from anywhere else in the city,
according to the district government’s interpretation of the
building code in the nation’s most-visited  Adriatic Sea  resort.  The experience shows how difficult it can be for foreign
investors in Croatia, where tourism accounts for one-fifth of
the economy, to see a return on their money. Croatia, which is
set to become the European Union’s 28th member in July 2013,
needs foreign investment after two years of recession and a
period of stagnation in 2011.  “It’s not unreasonable to expect to be able to build in a
building zone, and we are open to cooperating with the
authorities over how it should look,” said Craig Cameron, who
directs the project, Fenestra Village, for project manager CMC
Global. “We believe Croatia has great potential for investment
in tourism, but after seven years, we are frustrated.”  In another example, Israeli businessman Aaron Frenkel and
Australian golfer and entrepreneur  Greg Norman  have been trying
for five years to get the green light for a golf resort, also
near Dubrovnik, after spending 90 million euros for land zoned
for sports.  Falling Investment  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis caused 2011 foreign direct
investment in Croatia to plummet to a quarter of the $4.2
billion in 2008, according to the central bank. Prime Minister
 Zoran Milanovic  is trying to lure investors with an 8 billion
kuna ($1.3 billion) infusion from reconstruction banks and EU
funds for infrastructure.  Still, as a six-month-old Cabinet led by Milanovic’s  Social
Democrats  seeks to ease access for foreign investors, red tape
remains one of the biggest obstacles. Potential investors are
repelled by long processes and “uncertainty,” Finance Minister
Slavko Linic told a business forum in Zagreb on June 13.  In tourism, potential investors are also faced with
obsolete deed books and a lack of transparency in land
ownership. That is further complicated by privatization deals in
the early 1990s, when leaders of the newly independent country
presided over hasty sales of Communist-era property to selected
individuals.  ‘Complete Nonsense’  Croatia’s development laws include “a number of
regulations that are complete nonsense,” said President Ivo Josipovic.  “We cannot boost investment while we have ancient deed
books, while we require 40 to 50 permits for a single project,
while local plans are not adapted to requirements, while there
is a divide among various levels of government, and while local
governments with their requests can obstruct investment,”
Josipovic said on June 4 at a World Bank panel in Zagreb.  Dubrovnik, on the far south of Croatia’s 5,800-kilometer
(3,600-mile), island-dotted coast, has styled itself as a high-
end tourist destination.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s Hilton Worldwide
Inc. and  Rezidor Hotel Group AB’s (REZT)  Radisson Blu Hotels operate in
the town and the vicinity, while  Chile ’s Grupo Luksic owns the
Adriatic Luxury Hotels chain. Past visitors to the city include
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  founder  Bill Gates , singer Beyonce and Britain’s
Prince Charles.  Pebble Beaches  The old town, built with white stone and marble during the
Renaissance at the height of Dubrovnik’s era as an independent
republic, is listed as a World Heritage site by  UNESCO , the
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization. Pine trees and pebble beaches below its limestone
cliffs offer respite after sightseeing.  The city of 40,000 has grown beyond its ancient walls,
along the coastline and toward the lower slopes of Srdj, a stony
hill that rises above the old town. The project’s 28,000-square-
meter plot lies east of the peak.  CMC Global Ltd.  is a British development manager
specializing in tourist and residential projects in the U.K. and
southeast  Europe . Barclays is manager and trustee of the R2R
Croatia Country Funds, which ultimately invest in the Fenestra
development, said spokesman Will Bowen from  London .  Equity Trust is a minority shareholder in the project, said
Richard Asquith, spokesman for TMF Group, which merged with
Equity in June 2011.  On a clear day at the site in May, the white walls of the
Old Town, about 1.5 kilometers to the west, glistened in the
afternoon sun, set off by a deep blue sea and the darker
contours of the nearby Elafiti archipelago.  Invisibility Clause  This view is a key selling point for Fenestra, Latin for
“window.” Yet the view has become the focus of contention
between the district and municipal governments. Citing a 2005
“invisibility” clause in the urban plan designed to safeguard
the city’s historic views, the district government, controlled
by the main opposition party, the  Croatian Democratic Union ,
says no new construction should be visible from the city,
including its more recent annexations.  Mayor Andro Vlahusic, from a coalition led by the premier’s
 Social Democrats , says the rule is meant to protect the beauty
of vistas from the Old Town.  Nikola Dobroslavic, head of the district government, said
he feels “very sorry” for the  Fenestra Village  investors.  “Yes, they bought land in the residential building zone,
but that doesn’t necessarily mean they can build there,”
Dobroslavic said on May 28 in his office in a baroque palace in
Old Town. “A building zone may mean you can build a park there,
or a road, and this is not clear until it’s specified by a
detailed urban plan. Perhaps the investors should have ordered
an expert study before making the purchase.”  Villa Plans  A detailed urban plan has yet to be completed, according to
Vlahusic and Dobroslavic. Several mandatory public debates, in
which architects’ associations, citizens groups and local land
owners have voiced their opinions, have taken place. A report
from the last debate is expected by mid-June. The  Ministry of
Construction and Physical Planning  will then weigh in on the
plan before it is submitted for approval to the city council.  “This is a normal process that happens in countries all
over the world, but in  Croatia  it takes four or five times
longer than anywhere else,” Cameron said, adding that his group
did projects in Poland and Montenegro that took 12 months from
start to completion.  He also said planning officials from the municipal
government assured them in 2005 they would be able to build a
park of luxury villas.  Dubrovnik Mayor Vlahusic said the Fenestra Village project
should go ahead as it fits regional and municipal plans.  Tourism Needed  “The biggest obstacle to investment in  Dubrovnik  is the
district government and the politics behind it,” he said in an
interview on May 30. “We have a choice: we can either build,
invest and develop, or we can be eminently poor.”  With lower prices than Mediterranean rivals Greece, Italy
and  Spain , Croatia is looking to increase revenue from tourism
after it becomes an EU member next year.  Funds are also needed to repair destruction still
noticeable from the regional war that began in 1991. Dubrovnik
and its surroundings, only miles away from Montenegro and
Bosnia-Herzegovina, were badly damaged during Croatia’s struggle
for independence from the former  Yugoslavia .  The visibility issue is also blocking a project to build a
golf resort on the northern slopes of Srdj, where a field of
low-growing bush stretches to the mountainous border with
Bosnia-Herzegovina. The area was zoned as a golf resort when
Frenkel, later joined by Norman, bought 765 acres in 2007,
planning to invest about 1 billion euros.  Stone Wall  “The project hit a stone wall over whether it would be
visible from the Old Town,” Ivan Kusalic, head of  Razvoj Golf
d.o.o. , said in an interview. “We believe we fully comply with
the rule. We never expected the procedure to last this long.”  Dobroslavic, head of the district government, said the
project wouldn’t satisfy the invisibility clause, and that there
was a disagreement over how many villas should be built in the
golf resort. Mayor Vlahusic said the district government’s
requests have halted the project “for political reasons.”  The government forecasts 0.8 percent growth this year,
while the  World Bank  and Central Bank Governor Zeljko Rohatinski
predict a 1 percent contraction. Prime Minister Milanovic said
June 1 that a good tourist season would boost the economy after
gross domestic product fell 1.3 percent in the first quarter.
Unemployment was 18 percent in May.  In April 2011,  Robert Benmosche , chief executive officer of
insurer American International Group Inc., spoke at an
investors’ forum on how he’s frequently questioned why he bought
a villa in Croatia, with its socialist past.  “Now that you’ve been here, you understand,” he said,
pointing from the Palace Hotel’s conference room to the Elafiti
islands in the morning sun. “It’s a most beautiful place in the
world, but it comes with some challenges.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  