-- Dissident Artist Ai Weiwei Says Police Block Him From Court
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-20T05:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/dissident-artist-ai-weiwei-says-police-block-him-from-court.html
Police blocked Ai Weiwei, a Chinese
artist who has created works critical of the government, from
attending a court hearing today in his lawsuit challenging a 15
million  yuan  ($2.4 million) tax bill.  One of Ai’s legal advisers in the case, Liu Xiaoyuan, was
called in for a meeting with police at 8:30 p.m. yesterday and
hasn’t been heard from since, Ai said in a phone interview
today. He said police had gathered at his home in an attempt to
intimidate him as he challenges the government.  “They said, ‘we’re telling you you cannot go, that’s an
order,’” Ai said. “There are police outside the gate. If I
step outside they will arrest me.”  Ai’s lawsuit is challenging a tax bill authorities issued
after he was released without charges from almost three months
of detention last year. The bill is for back taxes that
authorities say are owed by Beijing Fake Cultural Development
Ltd., a company controlled by Ai’s wife that markets his work.  Ai said was told earlier there weren’t any seats remaining
inside the Chaoyang District Court for the open hearing, where
lawyers will present his challenge to the tax evasion penalty
the government levied against Beijing Fake Cultural Development.  Calls to the court went unanswered today. The news
department of Beijing’s police department didn’t immediately
answer faxed questions seeking comment.  When he asked why he wouldn’t be allowed to attend the
hearing, Ai said police told him the tax case was against the
company, not him. He said he expected a verdict today.  Quick Verdict  “I think they’ll try to finish it as soon as possible,”
he said. “I think they will never give us a chance to
explain.”  Ai’s works have included an installation at  London ’s Tate
Modern gallery turbine hall featuring millions of ceramic
sunflower seeds and another for Munich’s Haus der Kunst that
consisted of 9,000 backpacks to commemorate schoolchildren who
died in the 2008 Sichuan earthquake. He has blamed poor building
standards for the deaths and accused the government of
underreporting how many children died in the quake.  He also collaborated on the design of the Olympic Bird’s
Nest Stadium in Beijing, working with the Swiss architects
Herzog & de Meuron. Ai was profiled in the film “Ai Weiwei:
Never Sorry,” which was shown at this year’s Sundance Film
Festival.  A June 18 commentary in  China ’s state-run Global Times
newspaper grouped Ai together with the  Dalai Lama ,  Tibet ’s
exiled spiritual leader, saying they have both “been rejected
by the mainstream Chinese society but are portrayed in a noble
light by the West.”  “Despite the seemingly huge wave created by activists as
reported by Western media, they have failed to make much of a
dent within Chinese society,” the commentary said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  