-- Dollar Falls as Fed Extends Maturities to Bolster Economy
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-06-20T21:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/dollar-rises-as-fed-extends-monetary-stimulus-citing-economy.html
The dollar fell against most of its
major peers after the  Federal Reserve  said it will extend its
monetary stimulus and stands ready to do more to bolster the
economy and speed jobs creation.  The 17-nation currency weakened from almost a one-month
high as German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  cast doubt on direct
sovereign debt buys, trimming speculation that  Greece ’s new
government signaled progress to contain the bloc’s financial
crisis. The U.S. central bank announced plans to continue its
program to exchange shorter-term holdings for longer-term debt,
while policy makers opted not to undertake additional
quantitative easing. The yen weakened versus all of its 16 most-
traded counterparts.  “They’re keeping a bullet in the chamber in case things
blow up in Europe, which is a very prudent way of handling debt
and uncertainty,” said  Greg Anderson , a currency strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in New York. “If the Fed had used its last
bullet in QE3, that would be worrying for the market.”  The dollar fell 0.2 percent to $1.2707 per euro at 5 p.m.
in New York. The U.S. currency rose 0.8 percent to 79.54 yen.
 Japan ’s currency fell 0.9 percent to 101.07 per euro.  Fed Moves  The Fed will expand its program to replace short-term bonds
with longer-term debt by $267 billion through the end of the
year.  The continuation of Operation Twist “should put downward
pressure on longer-term  interest rates  and help to make broader
financial conditions more accommodative,” the  Federal Open
Market Committee  said today in a statement at the conclusion of
a two-day meeting in  Washington .  “Growth in employment has slowed in recent months, and the
 unemployment rate  remains elevated,” the FOMC said. “Household
spending appears to be rising at a somewhat slower pace than
earlier in the year.”  “The Fed basically went the conservative route extending
it,” said  Andrew Busch , a global currency strategist at Bank of
Montreal in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “That’s
what they had left in the quiver as far as what their short-
dated securities were. They certainly didn’t want to take the
risk of doing additional quantitative easing purchases due to
the fact that they need probably another month’s worth of data
to confirm that things are really bad.”  Slower Growth  Central bank officials cut their estimates for 2012 growth
after last month’s slowdown in hiring and see little progress on
unemployment during the rest of the year.  They lowered their central tendency estimate for U.S. 2012
gross domestic product growth to 1.9 percent to 2.4 percent from
2.4 percent to 2.9 percent in April. Estimates for 2013 centered
around 2.2 percent to 2.8 percent, compared with 2.7 percent to
3.1 percent in the previous forecast.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of assets in two rounds of
stimulus known as quantitative easing between December 2008 and
June 2011. The  Dollar Index , which Intercontinental Exchange
Inc. uses to track the greenback against the currencies of six
major U.S. trading partners, lost 14 percent during that period.  The central bank has also kept its benchmark interest rate
at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Norway’s krone rose against all of its major counterparts,
appreciating 0.8 percent to 5.8970 per dollar, after the
country’s central bank left its main interest rate close to a
record low for a second meeting.  Peso Weakens  The  Mexican peso  fell versus most other major currencies,
decreasing 0.2 percent to 13.7092 against the greenback. Mexican
central bank Governor Agustin Carstens narrowed his economic
growth forecast for this year, saying the country’s gross
domestic profit will expand 3.5 percent to 4 percent. The bank
forecast 4.25 as the top end growth range on May 16.  Germany’s Merkel declined to commit to direct sovereign
debt purchases through the euro-area bailout fund, pushing back
on calls by euro-region leaders who backed the measure as a way
to ease the debt crisis.  “There is no concrete planning that I know about, but
there is the possibility of purchasing sovereign bonds on the
secondary market,” Merkel told reporters today in Berlin after
talks with Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte .  “She’s not saying anything new that we don’t already
know,” Citigroup’s Anderson said. “She may be, in some way,
trying to remind the market that  Europe  is not rudderless.”  Antonis Samaras, leader of Greece’s New Democracy party,
was sworn in as prime minister after Greek political leaders
agreed on a coalition that will seek relief from austerity
measures tied to international loans.  In its final statement, the G-20 backed Europe’s plans to
consider a more integrated banking industry with common  deposit
insurance , a step that Merkel has resisted. With attention
shifting to a summit of European Union leaders in Brussels on
June 28-29, the G-20 supported EU plans for closer economic
union “that lead to sustainable borrowing costs.”  The shared currency will finish the year at $1.25,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News Survey. The
yen will weaken to 82 versus the greenback and the Dollar Index
will rise to 82.5, separate surveys show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  