-- Dong Invests in Production as Oil Links Keep Gas Uncompetitive
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2012-06-20T13:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/dong-invests-in-production-as-oil-links-keep-gas-uncompetitive.html
Dong Energy A/S,  Denmark ’s biggest
utility, is investing in natural-gas production and shunning
opportunities to build gas-fired  power plants  as European prices
for the fuel stay high because of contracts linked to crude oil.  “The current prices of oil-linked contracts represent a
challenge for the competitiveness of gas,” Henrik Valgma, head
of portfolio management and trading at Dong, said in a June 14
interview in Copenhagen. “Gas is too expensive and combined-
cycle gas turbines aren’t paying off. Something has to change.”  Dong plans to double production of oil and gas in the five
years to 2016 to reduce the cost of fuels it trades and uses to
power generators in Denmark, Valgma said. Gas supplied through
contracts linked to oil has become expensive as  Brent crude 
closed above $100 a barrel for all but one day from March 2011
through May of this year.  Burning next-month gas to generate electricity in  Germany 
has been unprofitable since February, according to Bloomberg
calculations of the clean-spark spread that include fuel and
carbon prices. Profit from using coal was about 4.50 euros
($5.72) a megawatt-hour. EU carbon for December fell 1.7 percent
to 7.47 euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in
 London  at 11:13 a.m. It closed yesterday at a seven-week high of
7.60 euros a ton.  “Gas is too expensive because coal is not paying for its
pollution,” Valgma said. “The CO2 price is way too low. Coal-
fired power production is subsidized.”  Contract Renegotiations  Dong is among European gas buyers, along with  RWE AG (RWE)  and
EON AG, that are pushing to renegotiate long-term contracts away
from oil indexation and toward spot prices.  Europe may buy the majority of its natural gas at market
rates rather than at oil-linked prices by about 2014, Societe
Generale SA said in a June 11 report. About 45 percent will be
bought at spot rates this year, Thierry Bros, a Paris-based
analyst at the bank, wrote in the report.  “We are in renegotiations and we’re trying to make these
contracts more market-like,” Valgma said. “We try to find an
approach with our suppliers where we share the risk rather than
take all the risk. I think we’re having good discussions. It’s
hard to see where it will go.”  EON’s midstream business, which handles the company’s gas
purchases, posted a loss of 79 million euros in 2011. RWE Supply
& Trading GmbH lost 220 million euros in the first quarter
alone. Dong’s trading activities earned 633 million krona ($108
million) in 2011, up from 478 million krona a year earlier, its
annual report showed.  “The more out-of-the-money the oil-indexed contracts are,
the quicker it will go,” Valgma said. “Buyers cannot continue
to lose the amount of money they did over the last couple of
years for long. That is a headache for us, but it’s not as big
as it is from some of the major continental players.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  