-- Dougan Doubts Mount Inside Credit Suisse as Stock Slides
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a ,   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-06-21T14:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/dougan-doubts-mount-inside-credit-suisse-as-stock-slides.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  Chief
Executive Officer  Brady Dougan , caught off guard last week when
the Swiss central bank said he must raise capital faster, faces
mounting public criticism and dissent from employees.  A memo to staff and a call with managing directors did
little to assuage concerns about the bank’s slumping  share
price , which hit a 20-year low on June 14, according to people
familiar with the matter who asked not to be named because they
aren’t authorized to speak publicly. Some employees, disagreeing
with Dougan, favor selling new stock even at current levels to
put an end to questions about the firm’s capital strength, four
senior managers said in interviews this week.  Dougan, who for years has been calling his bank one of the
best-capitalized in the world, led Credit Suisse through the
2008 financial crisis without direct state aid, even as its
bigger competitor,  UBS AG (UBSN) , got a government bailout. Four years
later, Dougan’s bank faces public criticism reminiscent of UBS
during the last crisis amid uncertainty over capital and a U.S.
criminal investigation into alleged tax evasion by some American
clients. Credit Suisse dropped 18 percent this year through
yesterday, while UBS climbed 2 percent. Credit Suisse was
unchanged at 18.18 francs by 4:52 p.m. in Zurich today.  “He’s obviously under a lot of pressure,” said
 Christopher Wheeler , a London-based analyst at Mediobanca SpA
who has a neutral rating on Credit Suisse. “Their capital
position looks tenuous. Their profitability is tenuous. It feels
like the board may start thinking: ‘Do we need a fresh pair of
eyes running this bank at this point in time because something
has lost momentum?’”  Board Backing  The bank’s board, which is meeting this week, hasn’t
publicly commented on Dougan, 52, who has been CEO since May
2007. It has backed him privately, even as the shares slid this
year, according to a person familiar with the board’s thinking
who asked not to be named because the discussions are private.  The board includes representatives from the bank’s two
biggest  shareholders , Olayan Group of  Saudi Arabia  and
sovereign-wealth fund Qatar Holding LLC, which participated in
Credit Suisse’s 10 billion-franc ($10.6 billion) capital
increase in October 2008, as UBS got a state bailout.  Koor
Industries Ltd. (KOR) , a Tel Aviv-based company that also helped the
lender raise capital, said in an e-mail that it’s “very
confident in the bank’s management and performance.”  Slumping Shares  Credit Suisse is the only one among its biggest global
competitors with a  stock trading  below levels of the 2008
financial crisis. Of 42  analysts  who follow the Zurich-based
bank and are tracked by Bloomberg, 29 percent recommend
investors buy the shares, the lowest percentage since 2004.  Some employees at Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s second-
largest lender, are more persuaded by the company’s slumping
stock price that something needs to change than they are by
management arguments that the current path is appropriate,
according to one senior executive. Bankers have begun sending
suggestions directly to senior management, according to another
executive, who asked not to be identified.  Last week, in response to a Swiss National Bank report that
said Credit Suisse needs to “substantially” expand its capital
base this year, the company said it is “one of the best
capitalized” globally and exceeds current Swiss requirements. A
capital increase isn’t planned, SonntagsZeitung reported June
17, citing an interview with Dougan.  Dougan Disappointed  The CEO told the newspaper he was “disappointed” by the
SNB report and that he had no warning from central bank
governing board members Thomas Jordan and Jean-Pierre Danthine
at a 90-minute lunch meeting 10 days before its publication.
Credit Suisse declined to comment or make executives available
for this article.  The SNB, which said Credit Suisse’s capital is below the
average for international big banks, didn’t say how much the
company needs to raise this year or identify the average level
for competitors it used for comparison. The central bank said it
applied stricter Basel III rules, which won’t be fully
implemented until 2019, to its calculations of capital strength.
It also used a stress scenario that includes disorderly defaults
of several peripheral euro-area countries and a “deep
recession” in Europe,  Switzerland  and the U.S.  Credit Suisse’s common equity and contingent convertible
bonds, known as CoCos, amounted to about 5.9 percent of risk-
weighted assets under Basel III at the end of March, the central
bank said. That ratio stood at 7.5 percent for UBS, it said. Had
the SNB included CoCos to be issued next year in its
calculations, Credit Suisse’s capital ratio would have been 7.9
percent, Dougan told SonntagsZeitung. CoCos convert into shares
when the bank’s capital ratio falls below a predefined level.  Finma Supervision  Dougan also said the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory
Authority, or Finma, is Credit Suisse’s primary regulator rather
than the SNB, according to SonntagsZeitung.  Credit Suisse employees are angry at the SNB for the way
the central bank publicly communicated its concerns, which are
worrying some clients, a senior manager at the bank said. Jordan
in an interview on Swiss television last week called the
reaction in Credit Suisse’s share price to the SNB report a
“total exaggeration,” and the central bank said it will review
communications procedures.  Finma is closely supervising the banks’ plans to build up
capital, which needs to be boosted in quantity and quality to
meet Basel III and Swiss too-big-to-fail requirements, Christina
Buergi, a spokeswoman for the regulator, said by phone. She said
Finma wouldn’t comment on the content of the SNB financial
stability report. Silvia Oppliger, a spokeswoman for the SNB in
Zurich, declined to comment about Dougan’s statements.  Dividend Cut  Dougan could cut or scrap the dividend, the most probable
option for responding to the SNB’s request, according to
responses from eight analysts compiled by Bloomberg from
research notes and interviews.  Credit Suisse has paid a  dividend  every year since the bank
was founded in 1856, Chairman Urs Rohner told shareholders at
the annual meeting in April. The bank cut the 2011 payout for
shareholders to 75 centimes a share from 1.30 francs for the
previous year and let investors choose whether they want to
receive stock instead of cash to help it boost capital.  Scrapping the dividend may not give Credit Suisse a
“substantial” enough boost in capital, according to Huw van Steenis, a London-based analyst at Morgan Stanley.  Credit Suisse may have  net income  of 2.46 billion francs
this year, according to the mean estimate of 17 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. That’s down 63 percent from estimates a
year ago. Net income for 2011 was 1.95 billion francs.  ‘Demotivated’ Staff  Van Steenis and  Kian Abouhossein , an analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in  London , said Credit Suisse may have to dispose of
more assets at the investment bank than already planned to boost
ratios. The bank could cut 50 billion francs to 70 billion
francs in additional risk-weighted assets at the investment bank
and still have a big enough business to support its private
bank, Abouhossein said in a note last week.  Such prospects are worrisome for employees concerned that
they’ll lose their jobs or see their pay shrink. Senior managers
said they expect more staff cuts than the 3,500 announced last
year because the market environment isn’t improving amid a
continuing European sovereign-debt crisis. Credit Suisse trimmed
its 2011 bonus pool by 41 percent after the securities unit
posted a second consecutive quarterly loss. The bank reduced
Dougan’s total pay by 55 percent.  John Purcell , founder of London-based executive-search firm
Purcell & Co., said staff is “demotivated” and complains about
“pay and a lack of vision at the management level.”  Accelerating CoCos  Dougan, who joined  Credit Suisse First Boston  in 1990,
headed the investment bank before taking over as CEO five years
ago. He had added about 2,000 people to the securities unit
since 2009 -- a move he called wrong in retrospect -- before
announcing last year’s job cuts. The headcount at the investment
bank at the end of last year was 12 percent higher than at the
end of 2006, while the unit’s 2011 net revenue was 44 percent
lower than five years earlier.  Given that reorganization takes time and it may be
difficult to cut more assets, analysts including Mediobanca’s
Wheeler and Andrew Lim from Espirito Santo Investment Bank
forecast Credit Suisse will have to sell new shares. Kinner Lakhani, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in London, said
acceleration of the issuance of CoCos from October 2013, even
with potential penalty costs, could be a quick way to increase
capital to a level comparable with UBS’s.  ‘Slow Deterioration’  Olayan Group and Qatar Holding could be persuaded to have
the hybrid bank debt they hold converted into CoCos earlier than
next year, said one senior Credit Suisse employee. Another
option would be to issue new equity to senior employees in
exchange for so-called Adjustable Performance Plan Awards, known
as APPAs, that are tied to the bank’s return on equity and were
issued as compensation in prior years, the employee said.  Capital isn’t the only issue pressuring Dougan and Credit
Suisse management. The firm failed to solidify the position its
investment bank won during the financial crisis, when
competitors were sidelined, and has been slow to react to a
worsening private-banking environment, analysts and investors
said. Investment-banking revenue accounted for 42 percent of the
company’s total last year compared with 53 percent in 2010.  “The slow deterioration in operational performance, the
heavily lagging share price and the lack of any vision on how to
tackle the current problems are the main investor complaints,”
said  Florian Esterer , a  fund manager  at MainFirst Schweiz AG in
Zurich, who doesn’t own Credit Suisse shares. “The pressure is
building.”  Unresolved Questions  Credit Suisse started revamping its wealth-management unit
after Hans-Ulrich Meister took over the business in August.
Before then the bank characterized falling margins as a cyclical
fluctuation rather than a structural industry change. The bank,
whose cross-border wealth-management business Dougan had called
“state-of-the-art compliant,” announced in July that it was a
target of a U.S. Justice Department criminal investigation into
alleged  tax evasion  by American clients.  Dougan has said Credit Suisse is doing “everything we
can” to resolve the matter for the past 11 months. Still, as
the Swiss government seeks what it calls a “global solution”
with the U.S. involving all banks, there has been little
progress to show to investors and clients.  Wealth management’s net new money in the first quarter,
which is usually stronger than the rest of the year, amounted to
5.8 billion francs, compared with the 10.4 billion-franc average
of the past eight quarters. Unresolved questions about tax
issues between Switzerland, the U.S. and Western European
countries are “making clients insecure and are also putting
pressure on the share price,” Meister said in an interview with
Finanz und Wirtschaft newspaper this month.  ‘Lame Duck’  Dougan’s U.S. citizenship and investment-banking background
are thorns for local media and the public, which have called for
the firm to return to its Swiss private-banking roots.  Bilanz, a Swiss business magazine, in a March article
questioned Dougan’s allegiances, saying he couldn’t recall the
number of members in the Federal Council in an interview and
hasn’t learned any German. Free tabloid 20 Minuten last week
carried an article that called Dougan a “lame duck” and
reminded readers about 71 million francs in shares he received
in 2010 under an incentive program created five years earlier.  Even people on the street have an opinion about his tenure.  “Dougan surely doesn’t have a lot of leeway,” said Beat
Menzi, a 48-year-old bike-rickshaw driver on Zurich’s
Bahnhofstrasse. “I would like to see more Swiss people in the
top positions of our banks.”  Same Choices  A new CEO, Swiss or not, will face the same hard choices of
cutting assets and jobs and raising capital, and Credit Suisse
lacks any obvious internal candidates for the role.  For investors who have stood by Dougan and bought Credit
Suisse shares as they slid, the results have been painful.  “We are very supportive of Dougan and the management
team,” David Herro, chief investment officer at Harris
Associates LP in  Chicago  and Credit Suisse’s third-largest
shareholder with a 3.3 percent stake, said in an e-mail.  In the nine months ended in March, he more than doubled the
number of shares Harris Associates holds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Since then the stake has lost 316 million
francs in value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
 Edward Evans  at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at +1-212-617-2358 or
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 