-- Drogba Joins Anelka at Chinese Soccer Team Shanghai Shenhua
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-06-20T08:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/drogba-joins-anelka-at-chinese-soccer-team-shanghai-shenhua.html
Didier Drogba , who capped an eight-
year stint with Chelsea by scoring the winning penalty in the
 Champions League  final, will join Chinese Super League soccer
team Shanghai Shenhua.  Drogba, 34, signed a 2 1/2-year contract, according to a
 statement  posted to his personal website today, which didn’t
give salary details. Drogba, who scored 157 goals in 341
appearances for Chelsea, will join the Chinese club in July.  “I have studied all the offers that I received during the
last weeks and I have the feeling that going to Shanghai Shenhua
is the right way for me to go now,” the Ivory Coast striker
said in the statement. “I hope to be able to help promote
Chinese football everywhere around the world and moreover
improve the links between  China  and Africa.”  Drogba, who becomes a free agent at the end of June, will
join former Chelsea teammate Nicolas Anelka in Shanghai as
China’s elite league starts to attract top talent following a
government campaign against corruption, match-fixing and
mismanagement.  Shenhua, owned by billionaire Zhu Jun, chairman of Chinese
online game operator and developer  The9 Ltd. (NCTY) , hired former
Argentina national team manager  Sergio Batista  as head coach
until the end of the season. Anelka moved to Shenhua in January
with an annual wage of 10.6 million euros ($13.4 million).  The Shanghai-based Xinmin Evening News reported June 17
that Drogba would be paid 12 million euros a year. Team
spokesman Ma Yue declined to comment when contacted today,
saying that Drogba’s salary was confidential.  Marcello Lippi  Defending Super League champion Guangzhou Evergrande hired
 Italy ’s 2006 World Cup-winning coach Marcello Lippi on a 2 1/2-
year contract May 17 and also paid German champion  Borussia
Dortmund  8.5 million euros to acquire Paraguayan striker  Lucas
Barrios . Evergrande last year signed Dario Leonardo Conca, the
Argentine named the best soccer player in Brazil for two
consecutive years, for $10 million.  Drogba left Chelsea as the club’s fourth-highest scorer,
having helped the London team win its first European Cup title.
His 88th-minute header tied the May 19 final at Munich’s  Allianz
Arena  at 1-1 before he struck the decisive penalty in a 4-3
shootout win after extra time.  After joining from Marseille in July 2004, Drogba won
Premier League titles in his first two seasons. Chelsea also won
the English league in 2010, and the F.A. Cup four times as
Drogba scored in each final. He also helped secure two League
Cup victories and his 34 goals in European competition is a
Chelsea record.  Drogba will join a club that’s 12th in the 16-team Chinese
Super League through 13 matches following a 2-0 loss at
Changchun Yatai June 16. The bottom two clubs at the end of the
30-game season in November will be relegated into the first
division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  