-- DuPont Says SolarWorld Infringes Patent for Photovoltaic Cells
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-06-20T21:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/dupont-says-solarworld-infringes-patent-for-photovoltaic-cells.html
DuPont Co. (DD)  filed a patent-
infringement lawsuit today accusing  SolarWorld AG (SWV)  of selling
photovoltaic cells using a material the chemical company said it
invented.  The suit, filed in federal court in  Portland , Oregon, is
over a conductive paste that coats the front side of a solar
cell. The paste is made by a unit of Heraeus Holding GmbH and
supplied to SolarWorld’s U.S. unit, according to the complaint.  Solar panels are made of silicon wafers coated with a paste
made with silver, which helps conduct the electricity, and other
things like glass frit and resin. DuPont, whose materials are in
70 percent of the world’s installed panels, said the patent
issued in April covers a composition with improved electrical
performance.  Making solar panels more efficient, and thus reducing the
cost, is necessary to make the alternative energy more
competitive with fossil fuels. Solar-cell prices have fallen
more than 55 percent in the past year. Silver prices, which have
soared over the past two years, have hampered efforts to reduce
the costs further because each panel contains about 20 grams of
the metal.  Ben Santarris, a spokesman for SolarWorld, said the company
had no immediate comment.  DuPont sued Hanau, Germany-based Heraeus last year over a
different patent for a conductive paste. That case is pending in
federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware , where DuPont is based.  DuPont and Bonn, Germany-based SolarWorld have been on
opposite sides of a trade fight over solar panels made in  China .
A group including SolarWorld’s U.S. unit filed a complaint last
year claiming the Chinese government was providing unfair
subsidies to panel manufacturers in that country. The U.S.
Commerce Department imposed duties on panels imported from
China, and a similar complaint is being discussed in  Europe .  DuPont is part of the  Global Solar Council , a lobbying
group formed in May to promote an open trading system.  The case is E.I. DuPont De Nemours & Co. v. Heraeus
Materials Technology LLC, 12cv1104, U.S. District Court for the
District of  Oregon  (Portland)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  