-- The Fed Is Running Out of Room to Twist
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-06-20T20:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/the-fed-is-running-out-of-room-to-twist.html
The  Federal Reserve   announced  at the conclusion of today's meeting that it
will continue its maturity extension program, known as Operation Twist, through
the end of the year. This time it plans to buy $267 billion of notes and bonds
with maturities of six to 30 years, and to sell an equivalent amount of short-
term bills and notes. Why so small? The current program, which ends June 30, totaled $400
billion. Answer: The well is running dry. After various rounds of bond purchases, the
Fed owns only $175 billion of securities maturing in three years or less,
according to  Jim Bianco , president of Bianco Research in  Chicago . By his
estimates, that amount will rise by $100 billion by year-end. At least we won't have to contemplate Operation Twist 2.0 (3.0 if you count
the 1961 effort). And that's a good thing, because fiddling with the maturity of
its portfolio is not the same as expanding its balance sheet. And based on
today's reaction -- the 10-year Treasury note spent 10 minutes in positive
territory after the 12:30 p.m. announcement -- the market may not give Bernanke
the lower long-term  interest rates  he wants. In addition to renewing Operation Twist, policy makers downgraded their
forecasts for gross domestic product growth, unemployment and inflation in the
wake of lousy economic news. At his press conference, Bernanke left the door
open -- wide open -- for additional quantitative easing, or outright securities
purchases. If the economy is as bad as the most recent data (on everything from
employment to retail sales to capital goods orders) suggest, the Fed is likely
to take further action, election or no election in November. With today's action, Bernanke may have created the illusion of doing
something for the economy. Next time he may  actually  have to do
something. ( Caroline Baum  is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  her on Twitter.)