-- The World's Most Powerful Accountant Steps Down
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-06-20T21:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/the-world-s-most-powerful-accountant-steps-down.html
James Kroeker, the Securities and Exchange Commission's chief accountant,  is
stepping down  from his post next month, the agency said this afternoon. There's
no word yet on who will succeed him. The SEC's chief accountant is the most powerful accountant in the world's
largest capital market. And there has been no more important question on his
plate than whether the SEC should adopt  International Financial Reporting
Standards  for U.S. publicly held companies. Kroeker's departure probably tables
that question until after the November presidential election. For some perspective, I called my friend and former colleague  Lynn Turner ,
who was SEC chief accountant under former SEC Chairman  Arthur Levitt .
(Disclosure: I used to work for Turner some years ago at an investment-research
firm, Glass Lewis & Co.) "It will likely be some period of time before a new chief accountant is
appointed," he said. "And I would not expect the SEC to adopt IFRS prior to that
person being in place. You've got five commissioners, none of which have an
accounting background whatsoever. It would be highly unusual that they would
adopt a rule without having their chief policy adviser on such matters in
place." The possible switch from U.S.  Generally Accepted Accounting Principles  to the
London-based International Accounting Standards Board's rules has been in the
works for more than a decade. There's no need to rush. The SEC didn't say where Kroeker, 42, is going next, only that he will "enter
the private sector." Before joining the SEC's staff, Kroeker had been a partner
at the Big Four accounting firm  Deloitte & Touche . No interim replacement has
been chosen yet. Kroeker  was named  acting chief accountant by former SEC
Chairman  Christopher Cox  in January 2009. SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  removed the
interim label and  named him  chief accountant in August 2009. ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  him on Twitter.)