-- ECB Should Back Sovereign Bonds, GLG Co-Founder Lagrange Says
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-06-20T10:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/ecb-should-back-sovereign-bonds-glg-co-founder-lagrange-says.html
The  European Central Bank  should
back the bonds of countries in the 17-nation euro bloc to stem a
debt crisis that has hurt financial markets for more than two
years, GLG Partners Inc. co-founder Pierre Lagrange said.  The ECB should support countries that agree to meet
benchmarks for cutting their budget deficits over the next five
years, Lagrange, who manages GLG’s European Long-Short Fund,
wrote in a note to investors this month that was released by the
London-based hedge fund. Such an approach would mitigate the
crisis while reducing the moral hazard that bailouts will
encourage countries to repeat risky behavior, Lagrange said.  “Markets will massively correct the current negative
stance” if the ECB takes action, Lagrange, who manages more
than $2 billion, wrote in his letter. “The execution period is
much quicker than that required for euro bonds, fiscal unity and
European bank regulation reforms, which can and should still be
worked on.”  Investors and global political leaders are increasingly
calling on  Europe  to introduce measures that can implemented
quickly to combat the crisis as Spanish and Italian bond yields
surge. A survey released yesterday by the ZEW Center for
European Economic Research found that German investor confidence
fell the most in 14 years this month as austerity measures
across Europe hurt demand for exports.  Along with ECB underwriting sovereign bonds, debt-reduction
goals should be set for each country based on what can be
repaid, Lagrange wrote. While targets should be stringent enough
to limit moral hazard, they should also be “realistic enough
that they can be achieved,” he wrote.  Greek Exception  The central bank should also consider guaranteeing new
short-term debt issued by countries “unconditionally,”
according to Lagrange. Countries should be charged an annual
rate of 50 basis points, or half a percentage point, to receive
the backing, a level that’s more manageable than the yields they
get in current bond markets, he said.  Lagrange said his plan should only apply to countries that
have “strong prospects” of eventually returning to solvency,
which said is unlikely to apply to  Greece . Instead of European
leaders providing more funds to keep Greece in the currency
bloc, they should “keep that money to help them outside the
euro,” he wrote.  The net asset value of Lagrange’s hedge fund, which bets on
rising and falling stock prices, has more than tripled since the
end of 2000, compared with a 31 percent decline for the pan-
European Stoxx 600 equity benchmark. GLG was bought in 2010 by
London-based  Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s biggest publicly-traded
hedge fund manager, which oversees $59 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Edward Evans  at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 