-- Hedge Funds Hurt in May Commodity Rout as Brevan Drops
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-06-20T09:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/hedge-funds-hurt-in-may-commodity-rout-as-brevan-drops.html
For the third straight year, May
proved a disaster for hedge funds that specialize in commodities
as raw materials from copper to oil fell into bear markets.  Funds tracked by the Newedge Commodity Trading Index lost
an average 3 percent last month, the most since September.
Taylor Woods Master Fund Ltd., managing more than $1 billion,
retreated 4.2 percent, according to a monthly report obtained by
Bloomberg News. Galena Asset Management Ltd.’s metals fund
dropped 2.6 percent in May, according to the company, and  Brevan
Howard  Commodities Strategies Master Fund Ltd. fell 2 percent,
according to a monthly report to investors obtained by
Bloomberg.  The declines show that even the most lucrative traders
failed to prosper as the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24
raw materials had its biggest drop since November 2008 and
stocks retreated the most in eight months. Last month’s losses
were worse than last year’s 1.4 percent slide in the 75-member
Newedge index during May and the 2010’s 2.8 percent decline.  “This is the third year that we’ve seen it start quite
optimistically and then serve up disappointment in May,” Fraser McKenzie, head of research at 47 Degrees North Capital
Management Ltd., which invests in hedge funds, said in a phone
interview from Pfaeffikon,  Switzerland , on June 12. “It’s
almost uncanny.”  The Brevan Howard commodities fund, run by Stephane Nicolas
in Geneva, is still up 4.2 percent in the first five months. The
fund managed $534 million as of April 30. Peregrine
Communications Ltd., Brevan Howard’s public-relations company,
declined to comment.  $4.4 Billion  Last month’s loss for the Galena metals fund, run by Duncan Neil Letchford, trimmed its year-to-date return to 3.1 percent,
according to Galena Asset Management, the London-based unit of
Trafigura Group. It managed $817 million as of April 30.  The $4.4 billion Astenbeck Capital Management LLC fund slid
14 percent in May, according to an investor in the fund.
Astenbeck, based in Westport, Connecticut, declined to comment
on the returns. The fund’s slide was reported earlier by
Reuters.  Clive Capital LLP and Vector Commodity Management LLP were
among funds that emerged as winners from the rout, while Krom
River Commodity Fund Inc., managed by Baar, Switzerland-based
Chris Brodie, avoided losses by cutting wagers on higher prices.  The $3.3 billion Clive fund, run by  Chris Levett , rose 10
percent partly as it bet energy prices would fall, according to
two people with knowledge of the matter. It fell 10 percent last
year before recovering 5 percent in the five months through May.
An executive at Clive in  London  declined to comment.  Ex-Goldman Trader  The Vector Commodity fund, overseen by London-based Gilbert Saiz, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. trader, rose 7 percent
in May, two people familiar with the fund said. It gained 9.5
percent in the first five months. A person answering the phone
at Vector’s office said Saiz wasn’t available and the firm
didn’t want to comment.  “In May, the performance dispersion of commodity hedge
funds we follow was quite intense,” Marcus Storr, head of hedge
funds at Feri Trust GmbH in  Bad Homburg ,  Germany , which manages
about $20 billion, said in a telephone interview. “There were
managers up big time and down big time.”  Krom, with assets of $790 million, dropped 0.1 percent
after cutting bullish wagers on gold. The  precious metal , which
rallied for 11 consecutive years as investors sought a store of
value amid declines in the dollar, retreated 6.3 percent in May.  “We got very defensive on commodities,” Itay Simkin,
chief executive officer of Krom River Trading AG, said in a June
12 phone interview from Baar.  “We were short metals, had puts on energy, and got out of
gold,” Simkin said. “Unfortunately we weren’t brave enough to
be big short, because volatility is very high at the moment.”  Bear Market  May’s price swings in the S&P GSCI Index were the widest
since August, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Crude oil
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  fell 17 percent, closing the
month more than 20 percent below this year’s peak, the
definition of a  bear market .  Crude slumped because of concern the  European debt crisis 
may spread and slower growth in  China , rather than the fuel’s
demand and supply fundamentals, Beau Taylor, chief investment
officer at Taylor Woods Capital Management LLC in Greenwich,
 Connecticut , wrote in the report.  Stocks Tumble  “Significant potential exists for the markets to shift the
focus back to the micro-level supply and demand fundamentals and
away from the focus on macroeconomic uncertainty,” he said.
Most of the May loss at the Taylor Woods Master Fund came from
energy, according to the report to investors.  West Texas Intermediate futures were little changed at
$83.93 a barrel as of 5:38 p.m.  Singapore  time, losing 3.1
percent this month and 15 percent this year.  The performance of commodity managers mirrors that of hedge
funds as a whole, which  dropped  2.9 percent in May, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, as stocks tumbled amid concern
 Greece  will abandon the euro.  Returns among commodity funds are similar because managers
are responding to the same economic and political concerns
whatever they invest in, Storr said.  Dwight Anderson ’s Ospraie Management LLC’s commodities fund
fell 2 percent in May, paring this year’s advance to 3 percent,
a person familiar with its performance said, asking not to be
identified because the matter is private. Jonathan Gasthalter, a
spokesman for Ospraie in  New York , declined to comment.  `Fundamental Stories'  Krom is waiting for supply and demand to reassert
themselves on commodity prices before taking larger positions,
Simkin said.  “We see a lot of opportunities,” he said. “Prices are
falling to much lower levels and there are some very good
fundamental stories in grains and softs. We want to see the
fundamental picture and the technical picture aligned, which
they’re not at the moment.”  Commodities rallied on June 14 and 15 on speculation
central banks will respond to the European crisis with some
coordinated action. The GSCI index surged 84 percent in the
three years from January 2009 as central banks including, the
U.S. Federal Reserve, the  Bank of England  and the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
pumped trillions of dollars into the financial system to revive
the global economy.  “Our macro analysis is still pointing to continued
weakness in the global environment lasting for the next few
months,” said Lionel Semonin, manager of the Earth Element Fund
in Singapore.  Four Elements Capital Pte Ltd.’s $15.9 million hedge fund
gained 7.6 percent last month, the most since its 2008
inception, as bets on falling energy prices came good.  “We believe that governments would have to inject more
stimulus,” he said. “This effort is probably going to have a
positive effect on precious metals, particularly gold.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  