-- Egypt Islamists Call for Protest Over Army’s Power Move
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k ,   A h m e d   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-06-22T15:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/egypt-delays-results-of-vote-adding-to-air-of-uncertainty.html
Egypt ’s ruling generals warned they
are willing to use force to prevent chaos as protesters led by
the  Muslim Brotherhood  gathered in Cairo to condemn the
expansion of army powers.  The military council said on state television that orders
issued “in the name of the people” must be respected,
defending a decree last week that widened its authority at the
expense of the presidency, and a court ruling dissolving
parliament. The council said it’s “not justified” to claim
victory in the presidential election before official results.  The Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi, who declared himself the
winner over former premier Ahmed Shafik hours after polls closed
on June 17, told reporters in Cairo today that he rejected the
army’s orders. Shafik has also said he expects to win. Official
results, initially due yesterday, haven’t been announced.  The army’s statement comes as thousands gathered in the
capital’s  Tahrir Square , waving Egyptian flags, after Friday
prayers to denounce the army’s new powers, as well as the
dissolution of parliament and measures allowing the military to
arrest civilians. Al Jazeera television said there were similar
demonstrations across the country.  ‘Peaceful Protests’  Mursi said peaceful protests will continue and the
military’s decree expanding its powers would require approval in
a referendum. Mursi said he accepts the court ruling that some
of the laws under which parliament was elected are invalid, but
rejects the right of the military to dissolve the elected
assembly.  The Brotherhood and other Islamist and secular groups say
the army’s acts amount to a coup and have derailed the
transition to democracy after the revolt against  Hosni Mubarak 
last year. The delay in election results has added to the
concern, which the generals have sought to allay by reiterating
a pledge to cede power this month. Egypt’s benchmark dollar
bonds tumbled today, heading for their biggest loss this year.  The military’s decrees “are the latest indication yet that
there won’t be a meaningful handover to civilian rule,”  Human
Rights Watch ’s deputy Middle East director,  Joe Stork , said in
an e-mailed statement. He said the army’s newly issued authority
to arrest civilians goes “far beyond their powers under Hosni
Mubarak.”  Fraud Allegations  Egypt’s election commission said on its website that it is
examining allegations of fraud by both campaigns. They have
filed more than 400 complaints, such as voters casting multiple
ballots or using the names of dead people, the state-run Middle
East  News Agency  reported.  The results may be released on June 23 or 24, said the
commission’s secretary-general, Hatem Bagato, according to the
state-run Ahram Gate website.  The U.S.-based  Carter Center , which monitored the vote,
said in an e-mailed statement that its observers didn’t find
“evidence of major or systematic flaws in the voting and
counting processes.”  Egypt’s economy has struggled to recover since the revolt
last year, as tourists and investors stayed away. Political
tensions have stalled efforts to negotiate a $3.2 billion loan
accord with the  International Monetary Fund . The past week’s
turmoil has left the country in a “no-win situation” which is
“the worst scenario for investors,” said Said Hirsh, an
economist at  Capital Economics  in  London .  ‘Major Social Unrest’  Egypt’s dollar bonds maturing in 2020 extended their slide
today, pushing yields up 44 basis points to 7.8 percent at 3:45
p.m. in London. Credit default risk rose to the highest since
2008 yesterday.  “A win for Shafik will most probably lead to major social
unrest and perhaps a second revolution as the pro-revolutionary
forces are unlikely to accept the result,” Hirsh said in an e-
mailed response to questions. If Mursi wins, he will “have very
little power” and “it is unlikely that any new economic policy
will transpire.”  Shafik, a former air force commander who briefly served as
premier in the last weeks of Mubarak’s rule, ran on a law-and-
order platform, highlighting the deterioration of security since
the revolt last year. He told a press conference late yesterday
that he is confident of winning, and accused the Brotherhood of
pre-empting the count and trying to pressure the election
committee through protests.  Christian Deputy  Mursi portrayed himself as the “revolutionary” candidate.
He won backing from some secular activist groups, such as the
April 6 youth movement, which played a prominent role in the
revolt against Mubarak and have been critical of Islamist
tactics since then. He met with April 6 and other activists
before today’s announcement.  Mursi said today that he may appoint an independent premier
and nominate vice-presidents from outside the Brotherhood’s
party. They may include a woman and a Christian, he said.  The army decree, issued shortly after ballot counting
began, was part of a wider push to “militarize the state,”
according to Ghozlan.  The measure keeps the military budget exempt from civilian
scrutiny, strips the president of his title of supreme commander
of the armed forces, and gives the generals control over the
writing of a new constitution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  