-- Telefonica Debt Rating Cut by Moody’s on Spanish Economy
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-06-20T11:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/telefonica-debt-rating-cut-by-moody-s-on-spanish-economy.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s largest phone
company, had its  credit rating  cut by Moody’s Investors Service,
which said it may be reduced further as Spanish consumers scale
back spending and the government’s credit profile worsens.  Telefonica’s long-term debt rating was lowered one level to
Baa2, the second-lowest investment grade, Moody’s said in a
statement today. Spain’s economy will continue to hurt customer
spending and Telefonica’s high dividend policy constrains free
 cash flow , it said. Standard & Poor’s cut Telefonica’s rating
last month to BBB, the equivalent of the Moody’s grade.  “The downgrade could mean more dividend cuts than
currently anticipated and an acceleration of asset sales
reaching out to other parts of its portfolio,” said Henri Alexaline, a fixed-income investor who helps manage $1 billion
at London-based FM Capital Partners Ltd.  After spending $85 billion on acquisitions since taking
over in 2000, Telefonica Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta
is now under pressure to reduce more than 57 billion euros ($72
billion) in net  debt . Since  Standard & Poor’s  cut the company’s
rating, Madrid-based Telefonica has announced plans to reduce
the cash portion of its dividend and explore initial public
offerings for its German and Latin American assets.  Spanish Risk  The cost of insuring Telefonica bonds using credit-default
swaps rose to near its June 18 record high today. It increased 5
basis points, or 1.1 percent, to 507 basis points, according to
Bloomberg prices. Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “We are particularly concerned about the weakness in
Telefonica’s financial ratios and do not expect it to meet the
financial-ratio guidance set for the previous rating level over
the short to medium term,” Carlos Winzer, a Moody’s analyst in
Madrid, said in the statement. “The weakening of the Spanish
government’s creditworthiness creates a risk of contagion for
issuers domiciled in or materially exposed to  Spain .”  A company official declined to comment on the downgrade
when contacted by Bloomberg News today.  The phone operator is accelerating the sale of assets as it
plans to reach a net debt ratio of less than 2.35 times
operating income before depreciation and amortization in 2012,
from 2.46 last year.  Telefonica said June 10 it is selling half of its stake in
China Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd. for HK$11 billion ($1.4 billion)
to cut debt. It’s also seeking to raise about 1 billion euros
from a sale of its call-center unit Atento Inversiones &
Teleservicios SAU, people familiar with the matter said earlier
this month.  Telefonica shares fell 0.5 percent, reversing earlier
gains, to 9.82 euros at 1:11 p.m. in  Madrid  trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  