-- Emerging-Market Stocks Advance on Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-06-20T22:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/emerging-market-stocks-advance-on-stimulus-speculation.html
Emerging-market stocks rose to a
five-week high after the  Federal Reserve  said it will extend its
monetary stimulus program and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
discussed bond purchases to address Europe’s debt crisis.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  gained for a fourth day,
adding 0.5 percent to 948.27 by the close in  New York , the
highest since May 14. Information technology companies rose as
SK Hynix Inc., the world’s No. 2 computer-memory chipmaker,
surged in  Korea  and shares of  E Ink Holdings Inc. (8069)  swelled in
 Taiwan .  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3)  gained 6.1 percent in  Brazil .  The Fed today said it plans to extend its Operation Twist
program to replace short-term bonds with longer-term debt by
$267 billion through the end of 2012 to reduce unemployment and
protect the expansion. The statement was followed by Merkel’s
announcement that bond purchases by the European bailout fund
may be a possibility. German policy makers had been opposed to
such use of the fund even as Spanish 10-year bond yields reached
a record high earlier this week.  “The Fed statement probably met the minimum expectation
because a lot of investors were holding out for the possibility
of additional stimulus,”  Nick Chamie , head of global foreign-
exchange strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto, said by
phone today. “Merkel’s comments were a bid for optimism because
it showed she is open to increasing resources to slow a vicious
cycle of increasing risks.”  Europe’s Debt Crisis  More than $5 trillion has been erased from global equities
since March amid concern economic growth is slowing in the U.S.
and China, and as  Europe ’s debt crisis intensified with Spain’s
borrowing costs rising to a record.  Euro-area leaders at the G-20 summit in Mexico  pledged  to
take “all necessary policy measures” to defend the currency
union and to spur growth and cut budgets in Europe.  Europe is China’s biggest export market, making up about 18
percent of the nation’s overseas sales, according to Shenyin &
Wanguo Securities Co. The European Union is also India’s largest
trading partner, accounting for 17.2 percent of the nation’s
exports in the six months ended September 2011, according to
data from India’s commerce ministry. The euro area buys about 22
percent of South Africa’s exports, according to government data.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  gauge has advanced 3.5 percent
this year, compared with a 4 percent gain in the  MSCI World
Index. (MXWO)  Shares in the developing-nation index are trading at 10.2
times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s
multiple of 12.1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  RusHydro, Gazprom  LLX Logistica, the port company controlled by Brazilian
billionaire  Eike Batista , surged in Sao Paulo.  Brazil’s Bovespa (IBOV) 
fell 0.1 percent after earlier gaining as much as 0.7 percent.
Itausa - Investimentos Itau SA, the parent company of the
country’s biggest bank, declined 1.6 percent.  Russia’s Micex Index sank 1.1 percent in Moscow, falling
from the highest level since May 11, as OAO RusHydro tumbled 7.6
percent and OAO Gazprom lost 0.8 percent. Russia’s natural-gas
export monopoly said exports to Europe fell between January and
May from a year earlier.  The ISE National 100 Index rose 0.2 percent to the highest
since April 30 in Istanbul after Moody’s Investors Service
lifted the country’s rating to a level below investment grade,
citing a “significant” improvement in public finances and
policies to cut the current account deficit.  Turkey’s debt was upgraded one step to Ba1, according to an
e-mailed statement. The agency cited well-capitalized banks in
reaffirming the nation’s creditworthiness.  Hungary’s  BUX Index (BUX)  declined 0.1 percent and Poland’s  WIG
20 (WIG20)  Index of stocks dropped 0.4 percent. The PX Index in the
 Czech Republic  also fell 0.4 percent.  MSCI Review  Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  rose 0.8 percent and South Korea’s
Kospi index added 0.7 percent.  South Korea, Taiwan, the United Arab Emirate and Qatar
failed to secure an upgrade at index provider MSCI Inc., which
cited offshore currency concerns and market accessibility.
 Greece  will be reviewed for possible reclassification to
emerging market and  Morocco  to frontier, MSCI said today.  E Ink Holdings Inc. surged 6.7 percent in Taipei. The
company’s sales will climb this year as demand for electronic
paper display rises, the Economic Daily reported yesterday,
citing Vice Chairman Felix Ho.  SK Hynix Inc. (KOSPI)  gained 4 percent in  Seoul  after saying it
plans to acquire Santa Clara, California-based Link A Media
Devices Corp. for 287 billion won ($249 million).  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries declined five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 377, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  