-- England’s Luck Changes as Euros Officials Miss Ukraine Goal
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-20T10:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/england-s-luck-changes-at-euros-as-officials-miss-ukraine-goal.html
England ’s passage to the European
Championship soccer quarterfinals as a group winner was eased by
a measure of good fortune and controversy in a victory against
co-host Ukraine.  England advanced to a meeting with Italy on June 24 after
benefiting from a goalkeeping blunder and a refereeing error in
a 1-0 win in Donetsk last night. Ukraine was denied a tying goal
in the second half when the match officials failed to spot the
ball crossing the goal line before being cleared.  England’s victory came two years after officials failed to
award a goal when  Frank Lampard ’s shot against Germany in the
 World Cup  was shown by video replays to have crossed the line.
Lampard’s effort would have tied the round-of-16 match, which
 Germany  went on to win 4-1.  “To be successful in these tournaments, because of the
standard of teams involved, you need that bit of luck going with
you,” England captain  Steven Gerrard  told reporters. “Two
years ago we didn’t get that luck with Frank Lampard’s goal, a
big turning point in that game against Germany, and we ended up
packing our bags and going home. Today, the luck turned.”  Ukraine’s Marko Devic had his appeals waved away by match
referee Viktor Kassai of  Hungary  last night after  John Terry 
hooked the ball clear in the 62nd minute.  Five Referees  An assistant referee patrolling the goal line about eight
yards (7 meters) away didn’t award a goal. Tournament organizer
UEFA, whose president  Michel Platini  has lobbied against the
introduction of goal-line technology to assist in such matters,
is employing an extra official at each end of the field for the
first time at the four-yearly championship.  “There are five referees on the pitch and the ball is 50
centimeters behind the goal line,” Ukraine coach Oleg Blokhin
said at a news conference. “Why do we need five officials?”  Soccer’s lawmaking body, the  International Football
Association Board ,  will decide July 5  whether to introduce goal-
line technology after nine months of testing whittled the
options down to two systems. FIFA, the sport’s governing body,
tweeted a reminder about the IFAB meeting in Zurich after last
night’s match.  FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  said today on his  Twitter 
account that goal-line technology “is no longer an alternative
but a necessity.”  Too Late  Blatter had opposed the technology until the Lampard
incident, saying he preferred a uniform set of rules to dictate
matches from elite competitions down to the grass-roots level.
FIFA had been criticized by fans, players and match officials
over its failure to adopt video or computerized ways of
monitoring the ball’s flight.  Next month’s meeting will come too late for Ukraine and
Blokhin, who railed at officials at a press conference in which
he offered to fight a local journalist who questioned his team’s
fitness.  Ukraine needed to win last night to stand a chance of
advancing.  France , which had led Group D going into the final
round of games, dropped into second place and a meeting with
defending champion Spain after its 23-match unbeaten run ended
in a 2-0 loss in Kiev to Sweden, which had already been
eliminated.  Rooney Strikes  England, which had been outplayed in the first half, got
the only goal from  Wayne Rooney  three minutes after the break.
The recalled striker headed into an empty net when goalkeeper
Andriy Pyatov failed to gather in Gerrard’s twice deflected
cross.  Coach  Roy Hodgson  said England was due a change in fortune
at a major tournament, citing Lampard’s shot against Germany and
the referee’s decision in the Euro 2004 quarterfinals to
disallow a Sol Campbell goal against host Portugal that would
have put England 2-1 ahead. The English lost in a penalty
shootout following a miss by  David Beckham .  “We don’t have goal-line technology and, even with slow
motion, people can’t be 100 percent certain,” Hodgson told
reporters. “We’ve suffered pretty much bad luck in those areas,
against Portugal and Germany, so if it was good luck today then
we got it.”  Hodgson was able to pick Rooney after he was suspended for
the opening two games against France and Sweden. He hadn’t
scored for England in a tournament since getting two as an 18-
year-old against Croatia on June 21, 2004.  The rustiness showed early on when he misplaced passes and
failed to head in a cross from Manchester United teammate Ashley Young when left free.  Luck Turned  Rooney’s luck turned when Gerrard tricked his way down the
right past Andriy Yarmolenko and hit a cross that eventually
found its way to the striker.  “My overall game could’ve been a bit better but it’s
difficult to play a first game for a while,” Rooney told
reporters. “The one thing I was delighted with was that I was
always putting myself in goal-scoring opportunities. I could’ve
done better with a couple more but I got the goal.”  Rooney’s header muted the cries of support from the home
crowd at the 56,000-seat Donbass Arena, which included Ukraine
President  Viktor Yanukovych , Chelsea owner  Roman Abramovich  and
 Rinat Akhmetov , the owner of  Shakhtar Donetsk , who play at the
stadium. Blokhin said his players hadn’t let their country down.  “We played a very good game and even the England coach
said they were lucky,” he said. “I don’t feel ashamed for this
team.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Donbass Arena in Donetsk at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  