-- Merck’s Marketing of Drug With ‘Madagascar 3’ Draws Complaint
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-06-20T13:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/merck-s-marketing-of-drug-with-madagascar-3-draws-complaint.html
Merck & Co.’s (MRK)  use of cartoon
characters from the movie “Madagascar 3:  Europe ’s Most Wanted”
to market children’s allergy drug Claritin is dangerous and
deceptive, advocacy groups say.  Use of the animated animals may cause kids to confuse the
medicine with candy, according to a  complaint  filed by 11 groups
today with the Federal Trade Commission. The same characters are
used to sell children’s snacks and  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  Happy Meals,
the groups said.  Merck’s marketing campaign for grape-flavored chewable
children’s Claritin includes free Madagascar stickers, a mail-in
movie ticket voucher and Madagascar-themed games. The promotions
violate a precedent for marketing to children set by the FTC in
1977, the groups say. In that case, the agency ruled that
Spider-Man couldn’t be used in television and print ads to
market vitamins to children. The organizations said the ruling
should be used to stop the movie-themed marketing of Claritin.  The marketing “creates a very real danger of product
confusion and may induce children to over-consume Grape-Flavored
Children’s Claritin allergy medication,” wrote Cara Wilking,
staff attorney with the Public Health Advocacy Institute, a
legal research center affiliated with  Northeastern University  in
Boston.  “We advertise in appropriate venues to reach those parents
of children who may benefit from the use of children’s
Claritin,” said Merck spokeswoman Kelley Dougherty in an e-
mail. “The advertising is directed to the parents of children
viewing the movies, not to the children themselves.”  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc.’s “Madagascar 3: Europe’s
Most Wanted” was the No. 1 movie for a second weekend at U.S.
and Canadian theaters last weekend, taking in $34.1 million in
ticket sales.  The interest groups who signed on to the FTC complaint
include Washington D.C.-based Public Citizen and the Public
Health Institute in Oakland,  California . FTC spokeswoman Cecelia
Prewett said the agency has received the complaint and declined
to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  