-- Merkel Adds Sports to Summitry in Attending Germany-Greece Game
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-06-20T12:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/merkel-adds-sports-to-summitry-in-attending-germany-greece-game.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  will fly to
 Poland  to watch Germany face Greece in the European Championship
quarterfinals this week, throwing sports onto the agenda as euro
leaders struggle to tackle the debt crisis.  A four-way summit in  Rome  on June 22 with Merkel, French
President  Francois Hollande , Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
and Spain’s premier,  Mariano Rajoy , was rescheduled for the
early afternoon. That allows Merkel to travel to the Baltic port
city of Gdansk to watch the game in the evening and, possibly,
to meet with Greece’s incoming leader, Antonis Samaras.  Samaras will be sworn in today as prime minister of
Greece’s new governing coalition after pro-bailout parties
scored an election victory at the beginning of the week.
Chrisostomos Bikatzik, a spokesman for Samaras’s New Democracy
party, declined to comment on whether he’ll attend the game.  “The chancellor is preparing for an exciting soccer match
-- it’s a day for sports,” German government spokesman Georg Streiter told reporters today in Berlin. “Should Mr. Samaras be
there, he will also dedicate himself to the sport, I presume.”  If Merkel and the new Greek leader encounter each other at
the soccer match, it would add to a series of high-level and
high-stakes meetings by the end of the month as European leaders
try to wrest the currency bloc out of its 2 1/2-year crisis and
return confidence to the markets.  G-20 Summit  Merkel returns today to Berlin after meeting leaders of the
Group of 20 biggest economies in Los Cabos,  Mexico , where euro
members came under pressure to pull together and spare the world
economy the consequences of a worsening debt crisis.  After meeting today with Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte ,
Merkel will hold negotiations tomorrow with opposition leaders
on passing the European fiscal pact and the permanent euro
bailout fund through German parliament by the end of the month.  The next day, she’ll leave for Rome to speak with leaders
about measures to take at the June 28-29 European Union summit,
which could include purchasing bonds of indebted states through
the bloc’s bailout funds.  The Championship has already loomed over one crisis scene
this month. After Spain announced it would seek 100 billion
euros ($127 billion) in bailout aid for its banks, Prime
Minister Rajoy flew to Gdansk to watch Spain face off against
Italy, “now that the situation is resolved.”  Spain  tied Italy 1-1 in that game, while Spanish 10-year-
yields  began to soar , from below 6.2 percent June 11 to more
than 7 percent earlier this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  