-- Merkel Balks at Sovereign Debt Purchases to Beat Crisis
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-06-21T08:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/merkel-pushes-back-on-direct-bond-purchasing-to-overcome-crisis.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
balked at committing to direct sovereign debt purchases through
the euro-area bailout fund, pushing back on calls by the bloc’s
leaders who support the measure as a way to ease the crisis.  Such a move, while legally possible, “is not up for
debate” at present, Merkel said yesterday in Berlin. French
President  Francois Hollande  championed the idea of using the
European Stability Mechanism to purchase indebted countries’
bonds as a way to counter rising yields. Just returned from the
Group of 20 summit in Los Cabos, Mexico, Merkel said: “I
haven’t heard about such things.”  “There is no concrete planning that I know about, but
there is the possibility of purchasing sovereign bonds on the
secondary market,” Merkel told reporters in Berlin after
meeting with Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte . “But this is a
purely theoretical statement about the legal situation.”  Merkel’s non-committal stance on the measure opens a fresh
conflict as euro finance ministers meet today and Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  hosts a four-way summit in  Rome  tomorrow.
Hollande prodded Germany to use the European Union’s permanent
rescue fund to buy debt from countries such as Italy, which have
taken steps to revamp their economies.  ‘Virtuous Countries’  Stocks fell today, with the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  down 0.7
percent at 8:59 a.m. in London. The euro, which jumped yesterday
on speculation Merkel moved on the subject, fell for the first
time in three days, trading at $1.2650. Spanish 10-year bonds
advanced, pushing the yield on the securities to 6.65 percent.
It had breached 7 percent earlier this week.  The bond-purchase proposal is for “virtuous countries like
 Italy ,” which have improved their public finances, to “be able
to get funding for their debt” at better rates than countries
that didn’t make the same efforts, Hollande said.  “We’re looking at the ways and means” to use the ESM, the
17-country euro region’s bailout fund, he said.  The French president said he expects to discuss the bond-
buying proposal with his German, Spanish and Italian
counterparts when they meet in Rome.  Merkel repeated her desire to have an incremental approach
to the euro’s woes, saying that the bloc should move “step by
step” toward a more integrated union. She also said that she
expects a request from  Spain  in the coming days for aid for its
banks. The country may ask for as much as 100 billion euros
($127 billion).  The chancellor meets with leaders from  Germany ’s
parliamentary opposition to finalize an agreement to win their
consent for passage of Europe’s fiscal pact and the ESM by the
end of the month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  