-- EU May Phase in Solvency II Over Years to Help Life Insurers
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-06-20T11:11:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/eu-considers-7-year-phase-in-of-solvency-ii-for-life-policies.html
The European Union is considering
phasing in new capital rules for the life insurance industry
over seven years, easing the burden on insurers who had
criticized the changes.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, is
considering the change as it negotiates with insurers and
members of the European parliament about the transition from the
current Solvency I regime to Solvency II rules, Karel van Hulle,
the EC’s head of pension and insurance, said in a telephone
interview from Brussels today.  “One of the measures that is foreseen in this transition
deals with existing life contracts, though it is not an
exemption from the regime, but rather a phasing-in,” he said.  The proposal is being discussed at a meeting in Brussels
this afternoon, according to Stefaan de Rynck, a spokesman for
 Michel Barnier , the European Commisioner for Financial Services.
Solvency II, which is scheduled to be applied in 2014, aims to
improve policyholder protection by forcing insurers to hold more
capital as a buffer against potential investment losses.  About 40 percent of German life insurers would have
problems complying with the new rules, Financial Times
Deutschland reported today.  Prudential Plc (PRU) , the U.K.’s biggest
insurer by market value, has threatened to leave Britain if
Solvency II hinders its U.S. business.  Discount Rates  Most insurance stocks in  Europe  rose today, with the Stoxx
600’s  index of insurers  advancing 0.9 percent.  Aviva Plc (AV/) ,
Britain’s second-largest insurer, climbed 3.9 percent.  The seven-year transition could buy the industry time to
come up with a long-term solution to its struggle with the low
interest-rate environment that reduces yields insurers earn on
their investments, according to Stephan Kalb, who heads  Fitch
Ratings ’ insurance ratings team.  “If we are back in times of normal  interest rates , then it
will help insurers,” Kalb said of the EU talks in an interview
in Zurich. Failing that, “probably it will not solve the
problem substantially,” he said.  Life insurers currently use discount rates based on asset
yields when calculating so-called technical provisions, the
amount an insurer requires to fulfill its insurance obligations
and settle all expected commitments to policyholders. The phase-
in would allow them to progressively move to the risk-free
discount rate required by Solvency II, van Hulle said.  “For a period of seven years you can apply the existing
discount rate under Solvency I” while transitioning to the
market discount rate, which is used to determine the value of
liabilities, he said. “It could be used for any member state.
The problem is that the discount rate that is presently applied
is higher than the market rate, which today is very low.”  If Solvency II were to be applied immediately, “your
technical provisions would jump to the ceiling,” meaning that
liabilities would increase, van Hulle said.  The Council of the European Union and the European
Parliament will vote on the plans, which could be finalized at
the beginning of July, van Hulle said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  