-- Europe Crisis to Cut Inflated Media Prices, Havas Says
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-06-20T18:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/europe-crisis-to-cut-inflated-media-prices-havas-says.html
Havas SA (HAV)  Chief Executive Officer
 David Jones , who can spend as much as half of the French
advertising company’s annual sales on acquisitions, says the
 European debt crisis  will damp prices for assets worldwide.  “I’ve seen crazy valuations for three or four years,”
Jones said in an interview from the Cannes Lions conference in
France yesterday. “The multiples I’ve seen from India in the
last five years are like nothing else in the world. They’ve
almost got a different calculator.”  When Jones became CEO last year, French billionaire  Vincent Bollore , Havas’s controlling shareholder, said the new executive
would help to expand in new markets. Jones said yesterday he’s
already been more acquisitive in 2012 than last year to bolster
areas such as mobile marketing, health care and finance and
target faster-growing markets in  Latin America  and Asia.  Havas, which owns the Euro RSCG advertising agency, this
year  bought  companies such as  Snapworx , a mobile marketing firm
in the  Philippines , and also opened an office in Shanghai.  While purchases are only one part of his growth strategy,
the Puteaux, France-based company, which generated sales of 1.6
billion euros ($2 billion) last year, has as much as $1 billion
to spend on deals, he has said.  Google Competition  Shares of advertising companies globally currently trade at
13 times forecast 2012 earnings, said  Paul Sweeney , a Bloomberg
Industries analyst. That compares to about eight to nine times
as recently as in 2008 and 2009, he said.  “Asset prices have surged due to the rebound in
advertising and the exceptional growth in developing markets
over the past several years,” Sweeney said.  Charles Bedouelle, an analyst with Exane BNP Paribas in
London, says while the European debt crisis might have a
soothing effect on valuations, competition for fast-growing
assets is still strong.  “There’s still a lot of competition,” he said. “Ad
companies are in better financial shape collectively than in the
past 10 years, with good cash flows, bigger revenues and most
are debt free.”  Forecast Cut  Havas’ larger competitors  WPP Plc (WPP)  and  Publicis SA (PUB)  have made
nearly three dozen acquisitions between them this year as they
look for new assets. WPP said today it agreed to buy digital
agency AKQA Holdings Inc., with projected sales of $230 million
this year.  Advertisers also face increasing competition from Internet
companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  which expand
their digital marketing operations.  Still, the global advertising industry will grow less this
year than initially forecast. Researcher ZenithOptimedia
yesterday said industry is now predicted to grow 4.3 percent
this year, down from an earlier forecast for 4.8 percent.
Marketing spending slowed in April and May amid fears that
Greece would leave the European Union, it said.  From 2011 to 2014, half of the advertising industry’s
growth will come from 10 developing markets, ZenithOptimedia
said. Brazil, India, Russia and China will account for 35
percent of the growth, followed by Indonesia, Argentina,  South
Africa , South Korea, Thailand and Turkey, the researcher said.  India Hopes  Havas  fell  4.1 percent to 3.81 euros in Paris trading. The
stock has dropped 7.8 percent since Jones was named CEO, while
WPP declined 5.5 percent and Publicis fell 6 percent.  Havas in March reported 2011 profit that climbed less than
analysts estimated as it paid for acquisitions.  Jones yesterday said the economic slowdown should damp
prices in markets such as India and China where prices for
advertising assets “skyrocketed” in recent years as western
rivals tried to expand outside their home countries.  Jones said Indian entrepreneurs so far knew that they can
hold out for higher prices as the country is one of the fastest-
growing countries in the world, with a real gross domestic
product that expanded 5.3 percent in the first quarter.  Now, growth in  India  is showing signs of weakness. Economic
growth during the first quarter was the slowest in almost a
decade as the crisis in Europe, India’s top trading partner,
hurt exports.  Standard & Poor’s  said this month that it may
lower the nation’s credit rating to junk.  Deutsche Bank AG and Credit Suisse Group AG cut growth
forecasts for China this month on projection that Europe’s debt
crisis would crimp the economy.  The economic slowdown will hurt valuations, leaving
acquirers with enough cash in a stronger position, Jones said.  “Valuations fall and people’s expectations fall,” he
said. “It could be a good thing for Havas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  