-- Euro Snaps Gains Versus Dollar as European Output Slides
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-06-21T11:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/euro-halts-gain-before-spain-debt-sale-on-crisis-concern.html
The euro snapped two days of gains
against the dollar as a report showed euro-area services and
manufacturing output contracted in June, adding to signs
 Europe ’s debt crisis is blunting economic growth.  New Zealand’s dollar strengthened after a report showed the
nation’s economy grew at the fastest pace in five years last
quarter. A  composite index  based on a survey of purchasing
managers in services and manufacturing in the 17-nation euro
area was below the 50 level that separates contraction from
expansion for a fifth month.  “The weak PMI data we’ve seen from Europe is weighing on
the euro,” said  Ian Stannard , head of European currency
strategy at Morgan Stanley in London. “The growth outlook is
coming into question. There is plenty to put the euro back under
pressure.”  The 17-nation currency slid 0.1 percent to $1.2693 at 7:40
a.m.  New York  time. It reached $1.2748 on June 18, the most
since May 22. The shared currency gained 0.5 percent to 101.54
yen. The dollar strengthened 0.6 percent to 79.99 yen.  The euro-area  composite index  held at 46, the same reading
as in May, London-based Markit Economics said today in an
initial estimate. That matches the lowest since June 2009.
Economists had forecast a drop to 45.5, the median of 15
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  “Flash euro-zone PMI releases today will likely restrain
the euro,”  Mitul Kotecha , head of global currency strategy in
Hong Kong at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank, wrote
in a research note today before the announcement. “The data
will put further pressure on the  European Central Bank  to cut
interest rates.”  European Summit  The ECB earlier this month held its benchmark  interest rate 
at a record low of 1 percent, while President  Mario Draghi  said
“a few” policy makers called for a cut. The central bank’s
next rates decision is scheduled for July 5.  European finance ministers are set to meet in Luxembourg
today to discuss the currency union’s financial woes.  The euro is down from this year’s high of $1.3487 on Feb.
24 and has depreciated about 6.7 percent in the past 12 months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that measure
10 developed-market currencies.  Spain sold 2.2 billion euros of debt maturing between 2014
and 2017, the Bank of Spain said, compared with a maximum target
of 2 billion euros set for the auction.  Spanish Sale  The average yield on notes maturing in 2014 was 4.706
percent, compared with 2.069 percent when they were last sold in
March.  Spanish  10-year yields  reached 7.29 percent on June 18, the
most in the euro era and above the 7 percent level that pushed
Greece, Ireland and Portugal to request rescue packages.  “As long as Spain’s debt problem stays with us, my bearish
view on the euro won’t change,” said  Marito Ueda , senior
managing director in Tokyo at  FX Prime Corp. (8711) , a currency-margin
company. “Whether Spain can resolve its debt problem has yet to
become clear, so anxieties continue to prevail.”  Demand for the dollar was tempered after the  Federal
Reserve  said yesterday it stood ready to implement further
stimulus following the announcement of an extension to its
program to replace short-term bonds with longer-term debt.  Fed Policy  The Fed said it will expand its so-called Operation Twist
program, which seeks to lower borrowing costs by extending the
average maturity of the securities in the central bank’s
portfolio, by $267 billion through the end of the year.
Officials also cut their estimates for 2012 growth after last
month’s slowdown in hiring and said there will be little
progress on unemployment during the rest of the year.  The Fed Bank of Philadelphia’s  general economic index  was
at zero this month, according to the median economist estimate
in a Bloomberg survey before a report due today. The reading was
minus 5.8 in May, the lowest since September and signaling
contraction.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, was little changed at 81.524.  “The slowdown in the  U.S. economy  is more than I have
expected, and it’s damping people’s willingness to buy the
dollar,” said FX Prime’s Ueda.  New Zealand’s dollar rose after a report showed gross
domestic product increased 1.1 percent in the three months ended
March 31 from the previous quarter, when it expanded a revised
0.4 percent,  Statistics New Zealand  said.  The so-called kiwi climbed 0.4 percent to 79.96 U.S. cents,
after reaching 80.17 cents, the strongest level since May 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  