-- Euro Crisis Shifts to Spain as Merkel Faces G-20 Pressure
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-06-20T01:03:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/euro-crisis-shifts-to-spain-as-merkel-faces-g-20-pressure.html
World leaders told  Europe  to pull
together to overcome its debt crisis, endorsing a road map for
tighter integration to cut borrowing costs and prevent further
damage to the global economy.  With Spain readying a request within days for as much as
100 billion euros ($127 billion) for its struggling banks, euro-
area leaders at a Group of 20 summit in Mexico  pledged  to take
“all necessary policy measures” to defend the currency union.
The U.S. committed to cut spending while avoiding a “sharp
fiscal contraction” in 2013.  “We have a profound interest in seeing Europe prosper,”
President  Barack Obama  told reporters today in the Mexican beach
resort of Los Cabos at the summit’s close. “Our friends in
Europe clearly grasp the seriousness of the situation and are
moving forward with a heightened sense of urgency.”  G-20 leaders arrived for their second consecutive summit
dominated by  Greece , as the country at the source of the debt
crisis voted in elections that threatened to trigger the euro’s
first exit. Within hours of victory for pro-bailout parties,
investor focus shifted to Spain as borrowing costs breached the
7 percent level that forced sovereign bailouts for Greece,
Ireland and Portugal.  Spanish Banks  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , attending his first
G-20, was prodded to spell out the scope of Spain’s bank bailout
as the deepening debt crisis in Europe exposed tensions among
the world’s biggest economies.  China  led a group of developing
nations that pledged more money for the International Monetary
Fund to stem the turmoil while chastising the euro area’s
guardians for damaging market confidence.  G-20 chiefs “talked about how we need clarity on Spain’s
application as soon as possible,” German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , head of Europe’s biggest economy and the key player in
more than two years of crisis fighting, told reporters. “We all
know that banks that aren’t properly capitalized are a real
source of turmoil and risk for the economy.”  In its final statement, the G-20 backed Europe’s plans to
consider a more integrated banking industry with common  deposit
insurance , a step that Merkel has resisted. With attention
shifting to a summit of European Union leaders in Brussels on
June 28-29, the G-20 supported EU plans for closer economic
union “that lead to sustainable borrowing costs.”  The euro rose yesterday to near a one-month high against
the dollar, while Spanish 10-year bond yields edged below 7
percent after reaching a euro-era record of 7.29 percent on June
18.  Global Concern  “The G-20 has been very helpful in underscoring for euro-
zone leaders the concern and expectations of the global
community,”  Daniel Price , managing director of Rock Creek
Global Advisors LLC, a Washington-based consultancy, said in an
e-mail.  With the global recovery slowing, emerging countries
boosted their pledges to the  International Monetary Fund ’s
global firewall, almost doubling the fund’s resources to $456
billion. Officials from China to India and Brazil also used the
G-20 platform to signal growing exasperation with Europe’s
response to the debt crisis now in its third year.  Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said the crisis in
the euro area was affecting global trade, and called for a
“change of direction” to combat the turmoil. Indonesian
President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  touted a need for more
“rigorous methods to manage the crisis,” warning a failure to
deliver would bring “unsettling consequences to all of us.”  ‘Unacceptable’ Interest Rates  French President  Francois Hollande , who has clashed with
Merkel on euro-region debt sharing and the balance between
austerity and growth, called for faster action, saying that
“it’s not acceptable” for  Spain  to shoulder such high
borrowing costs.  “In this permanent race between events, speculation and
political decisions, political decisions must get ahead of the
uncertainty,” Hollande said in Los Cabos, attending his first
G-20 since defeating  Nicolas Sarkozy  in May elections.  Crisis fatigue set after the summit’s first day when the
U.S. president and the four euro-area leaders called off an
after-dinner talk. Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said that
he, Merkel and Hollande agreed with Obama during a fireworks
display that the day had already been “more than rich enough
with debate.”  Election Year  While Obama has blamed the financial crisis in the euro
region for slowing U.S. employment growth in a presidential
election year, European leaders pushed back.  No one thinks the EU “is the only source of the problem,”
Monti said. The crisis “had its origins in imbalances in other
countries, including the U.S.”  “I don’t think there is a trend for the situation in the
euro-zone getting worse,” Russian President  Vladimir Putin  told
reporters. “My impression was that Europe wants to end the
crisis by solving the institutional problems of the economy and
bringing order and discipline to finances.”  The summit’s host, Mexican President  Felipe Calderon ,
highlighted the risks policy makers face as they combine
measures to stimulate growth with a longer-term drive to balance
their finances.  Expanding deficits to stimulate growth is like “diving
into a cave at the bottom of the sea,” Calderon said at the
summit’s close. “The moment you enter you have to be sure you
have the strength and oxygen to return.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Los Cabos via 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Los Cabos at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  