-- Europe Lures $42 Billion as U.S. Companies Keep Shopping
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-06-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/europe-companies-in-crisis-snapped-up-by-overseas-buyers.html
The fourth Friday of every month at
a pub in  San Francisco ’s Ghirardelli Square, British expatriates
living in the technology capital of the world meet to eat,
drink, and reminisce about home. The group includes staffers at
West Coast tech giants  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN)  and lists more than 1,000 registered members on its Meetup
page. That number is about to get larger.  As growth in the global technology industry slows, European
companies have been hobbled by weak valuations. As a result,
cash-rich U.S. acquirers are swallowing up their European
counterparts, outspending European acquirers by almost two-to-
one in the region. That means more of Europe’s tech whizzes are
moving to Silicon Valley, even as the continent’s recession-
wracked governments push attempts to spur innovation.  Overseas buyers, especially from the U.S.,“are doing the
math and valuing European public companies more highly than the
European markets,” said Simon Pearson, an M&A partner at Ernst
& Young LLP in London. “The number of substantial European tech
companies is going to continue to dwindle.”  U.S. buyers have spent $42 billion on acquisitions of
Europe’s technology companies since 2009, led by  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ) ’s $10.3 billion takeover of U.K. data-analysis firm Autonomy
Corp. last year, compared with $27 billion in deals by European
buyers.  No Ecosystem  The gulf may grow even wider as two one-time European
technology giants that have struggled against U.S. and Asian
competition, smartphone maker  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and phone-equipment
vendor Alcatel-Lucent, are expected to shed assets. Bankers are
also predicting consolidation in the computer-services space, in
which European leaders  Cap Gemini SA (CAP)  and Atos SA trail U.S.- and
India-based competitors in a market that’s barely growing.  Unlike the technology giants in the U.S., large European
companies lack “an ecosystem of mid-sized businesses around
them,” which in turn drives even more innovation, said Errol Damelin, the founder of Wonga, the London-based online loan
provider.  Europe  does have a new wave of startups, though it may
take until 2020 before they reach maturity, he said.  Bargain prices for European companies are luring buyers.
Listed European technology firms valued at more than $100
million are on average 32 percent cheaper than their North
American peers, trading at an average ratio of 15 times earnings
compared with 22 times earnings in the U.S. and  Canada ,
according to Bloomberg data.  Nokia’s Plunge  The result is a dearth of mid-sized to large technology
companies in Europe. In the U.S., 234 technology companies have
a market capitalization of more than $500 million, while in
Western Europe just 65 companies meet that criteria, with only
six exceeding $10 billion in value. Silicon Valley’s dominance
has only become more complete over time: in 2007, there were 100
European companies valued above $500 million, compared with 267
in the U.S.  Nokia’s decline has been the region’s most dramatic. Its
market value slumped below $10 billion last week, down from more
than $100 billion in 2007. The company this month said it would
cut an additional 10,000 jobs as its profitability erodes. The
handset maker has been hammered by competition from phones
running software from Apple and Google -- two companies that
weren’t even in the mobile business six years ago.  Moving Staff  The Finnish company is looking to exit from its Nokia
Siemens Networks network-gear unit, according to people familiar
with its plans, and attracts frequent speculation about an
outright takeover by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , with which it has an
alliance. Among the top 10 global technology companies by market
value, none is European. German business-software maker  SAP AG (SAP) 
is 11th with a market capitalization of about $74 billion.  Acquirers routinely promise to preserve jobs and research
activities when buying technology businesses. Hewlett-Packard,
for example, pledged to maintain Autonomy as an independent unit
and avoid any job cuts when it bought the Cambridge, England-
based business last year. Yet CEO Mike Lynch transferred to the
U.S. following the takeover, before he was ousted last month.  Lynch, who founded Autonomy as a spinoff from the
University of Cambridge in 1996, said European companies are
losing out due to a lack of early-stage financing, with
entrepreneurs selling out earlier than their U.S. counterparts.  Autonomy was different because it sought a public listing
early to gain access to additional funds without the need for
 venture capital , Lynch said.  “If Autonomy had got to a $300 to $400 million valuation
and it had still been private, I think you’d have had a hard
time” convincing venture-capital backers to say no to an offer
from a strategic buyer, he said.  ‘Angry Birds’  Today’s startups are the bright spot for the European
technology scene. Drawn by the success of young companies
including  Finland ’s Rovio Entertainment Oy, the maker of “Angry
Birds” mobile games, and London-based online jukebox Spotify
Ltd., venture-capital firms are raising their exposure to
Europe, betting that nascent innovation hubs in London and
Berlin can deliver the next big thing.  Even the hottest startups, however, face challenges
particular to Europe and its topsy-turvy stock markets, which
have hosted just 14 initial public offerings of technology
companies in the past two years, while U.S. markets have
welcomed 21. And Europe’s venture-capital scene remains small
compared to that in the U.S.  Europe’s Crisis  “When the private and public capital markets are
dislocated, access to equity for earlier-stage companies is more
difficult, leaving selling as the only real option to staying
the course,” said George Patterson, the head of technology
investment banking for Europe,  Middle East  and  Africa  at
 Barclays Capital  in London.  Difficulty turning small startups into large, independent
engines of employment and growth comes at an inopportune time
for European governments slammed by the region’s debt and
economic crises. In the U.K., Prime Minister  David Cameron  has
backed plans to build in London a high-tech answer to Northern
 California . In  France , a country with  zero economic growth , the
government has supported an academy for aspiring entrepreneurs.  That strategy, though, isn’t about to challenge Silicon
Valley. Marten Mickos would know. The founder of Swedish
database-software maker MySQL AB, which was bought for $1
billion by Sun Microsystems Inc. in 2008, moved to California
nine years ago after promising U.S.-based venture-capital
investors he would relocate as part of a financing round. He
hasn’t looked back.  “It’s such a unique place even for Americans,” Mickos
said. “I don’t think it’s a damning indictment especially of
Europe. There are many companies in the U.S. that feel they need
to move here. Everybody has lost against Silicon Valley, not
just Europe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in  London  at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  