-- European Stocks Advance Before Fed Rate Decision
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-06-20T16:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/european-stock-futures-little-changed-before-fed-policy.html
European stocks  advanced, sending
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index to its highest level in more than a
month, amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  will expand
Operation Twist to help sustain economic growth.  Aer Lingus Group Plc surged 15 percent after  Ryanair
Holdings Plc (RYA)  renewed its offer to buy the company.  Hennes &
Mauritz AB (HMB)  rose 4.8 percent after earnings topped forecasts.
 Unilever NV (UNA)  declined after Procter & Gamble Co., the world’s
largest consumer-products maker, cut its earnings forecast.  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  rose 0.6 percent to 249.67 at the close in
London, the gauge’s highest level since May 11. The benchmark
measure has still  fallen 8.3 percent  from its peak on March 16
amid concern Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis has derailed global
economic growth.  “The  Federal Open Market Committee  is taking center stage
with expectations once again high that Fed will finally do
something to stimulate increasingly sluggish growth,” said
Markus Huber, head of German sales trading at ETX Capital in
London. “The Fed will have to deliver something today.”  The Fed will probably expand Operation Twist beyond $400
billion to spur growth and buy protection against a deeper
crisis in  Europe , according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  Operation Twist  Fifty-eight percent of respondents in a June 18 poll said
the Fed will prolong the program, which seeks to lower borrowing
costs by extending the average maturity of the securities in the
central bank’s portfolio. The current plan ends this month.  The FOMC ends its two-day meeting today with a statement
scheduled for release at about 12:30 p.m. in  Washington . Sixty
percent said the Fed probably won’t start a third round of
large-scale bond purchases, known as quantitative easing.  Euro-area leaders at the Group of 20 summit in Mexico
yesterday pledged to take “all necessary policy measures” to
defend the currency union as world leaders endorsed a road map
for tighter integration to cut borrowing costs and prevent
further damage to the global economy. Attention now shifts to a
summit of European Union leaders in Brussels on June 28-29.  National benchmark indexes rallied in all 18 western-
European markets except in Switzerland and Ireland. The U.K.’s
FTSE 100 Index added 0.6 percent and Germany’s DAX increased 0.5
percent.  France ’s CAC 40 increased 0.3 percent.  Greek Government  Antonis Samaras, leader of Greece’s  New Democracy  party,
was sworn in as prime minister after political leaders in the
Mediterranean nation agreed on a coalition that will seek relief
from austerity measures tied to international loans.  New Democracy, which won a June 17 election with almost 30
percent of the vote, will join forces with the socialist Pasok
party, which finished third, and the sixth-place Democratic
Left. They will hold 179 seats in the 300-member parliament,
ending a period of political limbo that began with an
inconclusive May 6 election.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  and three other policy
makers were overruled in a push to expand the bank’s bond-
purchase program as a majority said more stimulus was likely to
be needed to address risks from the euro crisis, according to
minutes of its June 6-7 meeting published today.  The Monetary Policy Committee voted 5-4 to keep its bond-
purchase target at 325 billion pounds ($511 billion). Most MPC
members “judged that some further economic stimulus was either
warranted immediately or would probably become warranted to
meet” their 2 percent inflation target.  Aer Lingus  Aer Lingus (AERL)  paced advancing shares after Ryanair, Europe’s
biggest discount airline, offered to buy its Irish rival for 694
million euros ($883 million). Aer Lingus surged 15 percent to
1.09 euros in Dublin, the most since September 2009, as Ryanair,
which already holds a 29.8 percent stake, said it intends to
make an all-cash offer of 1.30 euros per share.  Ryanair said yesterday the cash offer was prompted in part
by the Irish government’s plan to sell its 25 percent holding in
Aer Lingus as part of wider disposal of assets aimed at
balancing budgets. The government won’t be forced into a “fire
sale” of its stake of Aer Lingus, Irish Prime Minister  Enda
Kenny  said.  H&M gained 4.8 percent to 241.50 kronor after Europe’s
second-largest clothing retailer reported a 23 percent increase
in second-quarter profit to 5.22 billion kronor ($751 million)
as U.S. and Asian sales rose. The average of 14 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg called for 4.86 billion kronor.  ITV Speculation  ITV Plc (ITV)  climbed 3 percent to 76.5 pence after the Guardian,
Telegraph and the Financial Times reported speculation that a
private-equity firm may make a bid for the company. The
newspapers cited traders. ITV spokeswoman Mary Fagan declined to
comment on the reports.  “I’m a big buyer of ITV and I think it’s very
undervalued,’ said  Alex DeGroote , an analyst at Panmure Gordon
in London. ‘‘I can easily justify and rationalize why it would
be attractive to a private equity buyer. The probability of such
a sale, however, is low.”  PSA Peugeot Citroen jumped 6.5 percent to 8.21 euros after
La Tribune reported that France may introduce a tax on large
luxury cars to help slow a drop in demand for smaller models
built in the country. The newspaper cited a study commissioned
by elected officials of towns with auto plants.  Shares of Renault SA gained 2.8 percent to 33.54 euros,
extending yesterday’s 4.6 percent advance.  P&G Forecast  Unilever lost 0.8 percent to 25.33 euros. Larger rival
 Procter & Gamble (PG)  cut its fourth-quarter earnings and revenue
forecasts because of slower-than-expected sales in developed
regions and unfavorable movements in foreign-exchange rates.  Danone (BN)  fell 1.6 percent to 47.94 euros, extending
yesterday’s 6 percent plunge as analysts from CA Cheuvreux to
UBS AG and Bank of America Corp. downgraded the world’s biggest
yogurt maker. The shares yesterday tumbled the most in three
years after the company cut its profitability forecast.  Kesa Electricals Plc (KESA)  dropped 5 percent to 52.5 pence after
the owner of the Darty electronics chain reported a 42 percent
slump in full-year adjusted pretax profit to 59 million euros.
The company cut its dividend and said Mothercare Plc’s Alan Parker will replace David Newlands as chairman. The shares had
climbed 19 percent over the previous four days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  