-- Ex-BayernLB Banker Admits Taking Bribe on Formula 1 Sale
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-06-20T15:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/ex-baynerlb-banker-admits-taking-bribe-on-formula-1-sale.html
Former Bayerische Landesbank Chief
Risk Officer Gerhard Gribkowsky confessed to charges Formula One
Chief Executive Officer Bernie Ecclestone bribed him during the
2005 sale of the lender’s stake in the racing company to CVC
Capital Partners Ltd.  Gribkowsky told the Munich Regional Court today the
indictment against him was “in most parts” correct. He made
his declaration after closed chamber negotiations between the
court, prosecutors, and his defense lawyers. In exchange for his
confession, the judges informally agreed Gribkowsky would get a
prison term of 7 years and 10 months to 9 years, Presiding Judge
Peter Noll said at the hearing.  Prosecutors last year charged Gribkowsky, who managed
Munich-based BayernLB’s interest in Formula One, with accepting
bribes, breach of trust and  tax evasion . They claim he received
$44 million in bribes to steer the sale of the bank’s 47 percent
stake in the racing circuit to CVC, a U.K.-based buyout firm,
and also agreed to a sham contract under whichEcclestone
received a kickback. Until today, Gribkowsky denied the claims.  “It took me a long time to come to terms with what I have
done and to admit even to myself: Yes, it was bribery and yes, I
should have paid tax,” Gribkowsky said in his first comments to
the court since the trial began in October. “Still today I have
troubles accepting this as a reality.”  Sophisticated Shakedown  Ecclestone’s attorney Sven Thomas didn’t immediately reply
to an e-mail seeking comment. Ecclestone, who is being
investigated by Munich prosecutors over the issue, has said he
was caught up in a sophisticated shakedown and bribed Gribkowsky
because he feared the banker might tell U.K. tax authorities
about a family trust controlled by his then wife.  Gribkowsky said that, at a meeting in May 2005, Ecclestone
indicated he would give him a job as a consultant for Formula
One in the future if he helped to sell the stake. Later that
year, Ecclestone presented CVC as a potential buyer and when the
sale was finalized, Gribkowsky got a consultant contract under
which he received $44 million, he said.  Over time, it became clear he would never actually work as
a consultant and that the money was a bribe to ensure the sale
would work according to Ecclestone’s plans, said Gribkowsky.  BayernLB’s 47 percent share was sold for 840 million euros
($1.07 billion). Ecclestone asked for a kickback of $100 million
from BayernLB for his role in setting up the sale, Gribkowsky
told the judges. Gribkowsky reduced the amount to $66 million in
negotiations and said he agreed to it knowing he had the power
to reject Ecclestone’s demand completely.  ‘With Hindsight’  “Ecclestone wanted us out as much as we wanted to get
out” of Formula One, Gribkowsky said. “With hindsight, I know
now that I should have said no to his demands.”  BayernLB acquired the Formula One stake after the 2002
bankruptcy of  Leo Kirch ’s media group. Gribkowsky clashed with
Ecclestone and sued him in  London  over corporate-governance
rules changed to limit the lender’s influence.  Another motive was that BayernLB didn’t grant him a bonus
for the sale, which was considered a big success, he said.  “I felt I deserved some form of recognition for a result I
had achieved by years of very hard work,” he said. “When the
little man made the offer, he hit the right button.”  Because Ecclestone didn’t want cover the cost of the
bribes, Gribkowsky set up another scam to funnel money from
BayernLB to the Formula One executive, according to the
indictment. The bank manager signed a sham contract under which
BayernLB had to pay Ecclestone a kickback of $41.4 million and
another $25 million to his then wife’s trust, prosecutors claim.  One reason he didn’t speak out earlier was his concern
about what would happen to Formula One if he disclosed what he
knew, Gribkowsy said. The auto racing series’ planned initial
public offering may have to be canceled, Gribkowsky said.  CVC sold a $500 million stake in the auto-racing series to
Waddell & Reed Financial Inc. last week. The sale values Formula
One at $9.1 billion and boosts Waddell & Reed’s holding to 20.9
percent, CVC said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Munich via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 