-- Facebook Backer Thiel Starts Growth-Stage Venture Firm
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-06-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/facebook-backer-thiel-starts-growth-stage-venture-firm.html
Peter Thiel , the billionaire venture
capitalist who led the first outside investment in  Facebook
Inc. (FB) , has created a new firm to back established technology
startups.  Mithril Capital Management LLC, based in San Francisco, has
raised $402 million to invest in growth-stage companies that are
transitioning from small startups into larger businesses, Ajay Royan, managing general partner, said in an interview.  Thiel, 44, made his initial fortune as a co-founder of
online payments pioneer PayPal Inc. before starting hedge fund
 Clarium Capital Management LLC . Mithril plans to make smaller
investments than Clarium and larger bets than Founders Fund
Management LLC, Thiel’s other venture-capital group, Royan said.  “There’s a space in the investment landscape,” said
Royan, a former managing director at Clarium. “We are focused
on the inflection point when companies have emerged beyond the
startup stage and they are ready to achieve scale and dominance
in their market.”  Thiel is chairman of Mithril’s investment committee and the
firm’s largest individual investor. Mithril also raised money
from institutional investors, including Allen & Co. in New York,
Royan said.  The size of the fund dwarfs the $16.9 million of Fraser
McCombs Ventures, the highest amount raised by a new firm in the
first three months of this year, according to the  National
Venture Capital Association . Venture fundraising totaled $4.88
billion in the first quarter, led by Andreessen Horowitz’s $1.5
billion fund.  Thiel’s Investments  Thiel’s fortune has grown with the recent public offerings
of Facebook,  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  and  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , social-media
companies he backed from early stages. His personal wealth
totals $2.5 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index .  At Clarium, bets on oil prices, currencies and stocks
caused the hedge fund to lose 90 percent of its assets from its
peak of more than $7 billion in mid-2008 to the end of 2010.
Last year, the company said it would shift to invest more in
private technology companies.  Thiel also teaches a course at  Stanford University  and has
set aside money for the Thiel Foundation. The nonprofit
organizes the 20 Under 20 Thiel Fellowship program, which pays
students as much as $100,000 each over two years to drop out of
college and pursue startups.  Mithril investments will range from less than $20 million
to as much as $100 million, and will center on entrepreneurs
tackling challenges in areas like biotechnology, energy and
artificial intelligence, Royan said.  “These are all spaces where the Silicon Valley approach
can make a huge difference,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  