-- Falcone’s Harbinger Capital Turns to Dell’s MSD for Loan
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-06-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/falcone-s-harbinger-capital-turns-to-dell-s-msd-for-loan.html
Philip Falcone ’s hedge fund, having
taken out a loan earlier this year at an effective annual
 interest rate  of 24 percent, has found a new source of
financing: the money-management arm of billionaire Michael Dell.  Harbinger  Capital Partners  Master Fund I Ltd. entered into
a note purchase agreement on June 14 with a credit fund run by
MSDC Management LP, according to a June 18 regulatory filing.
MSDC Management is an  investment adviser  backed by MSD Capital
LP, the private investment firm for Dell and his family.  Under the financing agreement, the MSD credit fund can swap
as much as $50 million of loans extended to Falcone’s Harbinger
Capital for part of its stake in  Harbinger Group Inc. (HRG) , his
publicly traded investment vehicle. Harbinger Group has served
as a source of capital for Falcone, raising about $400 million
last year through the sale of convertible preferred stock to
investors such as  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) ,  George Soros ’s
Quantum Partners LP, and James Litinsky’s JHL Capital Group LLC,
according to federal filings.  Lewis Phelps, a spokesman for Harbinger Capital, and Todd
Fogarty, a spokesman for MSD Capital, declined to comment, while
Falcone didn’t return a telephone call and an e-mail. Harbinger
Capital and MSD Capital are both based in  New York .  The terms of the loan, such as the total amount of money
Harbinger Capital can borrow and the interest rate it will pay,
weren’t disclosed in its filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Jefferies Loan  It replaces a loan, originally for $190 million, that
Harbinger Capital received Jan. 31 from  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) ,
according to the  SEC filing  and New York state corporate
records. Harbinger Capital had already paid down about $82
million of the Jefferies loan, which was scheduled to mature in
October and carried an annualized interest rate of 24 percent,
more than four times the rate paid by corporate borrowers with
non-investment-grade credit ratings as of January.  At the end of January, Harbinger Capital Partners had
invested about $3 billion, equaling about 60 percent of its
assets, in LightSquared Inc., a Reston, Virginia-based firm that
planned to build out a network offering high-speed data service
to as many as 260 million people. In February, the  National
Telecommunications and Information Administration  recommended
that the Federal Communications Commission withdraw the license
for the company’s network, after finding that its signals would
interfere with global-positioning systems.  LightSquared filed for  bankruptcy protection  three months
later.  MSD Capital  MSD Capital was formed in 1998 to exclusively manage the
capital of  Michael Dell , the founder of computer maker  Dell
Inc. (DELL) , and his family. In July 2009, the principals of MSD
Capital, including Glenn Fuhrman and John Phelan, formed MSDC
Management LP as an investment adviser that would run private
funds backed by outside capital as well as by Michael Dell.  At the end of last year, MSDC had gross assets of $4.44
billion, according to documents filed with the SEC on April 30.
This included about $1.78 billion in MSD Credit Opportunity Fund
LP; about $1 billion in MSD Energy Partners LP, established to
invest in oil and gas companies as well as alternative energy
providers, utilities, and drilling firms; and $886.8 million in
the MSD European Opportunity Fund LP.  ‘Value Opportunities’  The credit opportunity fund, according to the SEC
registration, invests in “distressed, stressed, special
situation and event-driven value opportunities,” by acquiring
bank loans, bonds, trade claims, hybrid securities and equities.
It focuses on companies that are undergoing bankruptcy,
restructuring or reorganization as well as securities selling
below intrinsic value because of a lack of access to capital in
financial markets.  In a letter dated June 15, Harbinger Capital laid out the
terms of an exchange option in which MSD HMF Investments LLC, an
affiliate of MSD Credit, could swap loan advances for Harbinger
Group shares held by Falcone’s hedge fund. As of June, Falcone
and his affiliates, including Harbinger Capital, held a 69
percent stake in Harbinger Group comprised of 129.86 million
common shares.  Under the agreement, MSD HMF can buy the Harbinger Group
shares at $6.50 each until June 2013, with the price moving to
$7 during the following year of the loan. The maximum amount of
advances that MSD HMF can exchange for shares is $50 million,
which would equal a 5 percent stake in the holding company. It
can also exchange advances to Harbinger Capital for other
securities the hedge fund owns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  