-- Fed Expands Operation Twist by $267 Billion Through 2012
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-06-20T20:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/fed-expands-operation-twist-by-267-billion-through-year-end.html
The Federal Reserve will expand its
Operation Twist program to extend the maturities of assets on
its balance sheet and said it stands ready to take further
action to put unemployed Americans back to work.  The central bank will prolong the program through the end
of the year, selling $267 billion of shorter-term securities and
buying the same amount of longer-term debt in a bid to reduce
borrowing costs and spur the economy.  “If we don’t see continued improvement in the labor
market, we’ll be prepared to take additional steps if
appropriate,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a news
conference in Washington following a two-day meeting of the
 Federal Open Market Committee . “Additional asset purchases
would be among the things that we would certainly consider.”  Policy makers moved to shore up the world’s largest economy
as faltering growth leaves it vulnerable to fallout from the
European debt crisis and looming fiscal tightening in the U.S.
Fed officials today lowered their outlook for growth and
employment, foreseeing a jobless rate of at least 7.5 percent at
the end of 2013.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 1.65 percent
at 4:35 p.m. in  New York  from 1.62 percent late yesterday. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent to 1,355.69 after
declining as much as 0.9 percent.  Easing Bias  “Clearly, the bias is still towards even more easing,”
said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP
Paribas in New York. “Our base case would still be that we’ll
probably see some more easing before year end,” said Coronado,
a former Fed economist.  The continuation of Operation Twist “should put downward
pressure on longer-term  interest rates  and help to make broader
financial conditions more accommodative,” the FOMC said.  Policy makers repeated their view that economic conditions
will probably warrant keeping interest rates “exceptionally
low” at least through late 2014. The FOMC has kept the main
 interest rate  in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008.  “Growth in employment has slowed in recent months, and the
unemployment rate remains elevated,” the FOMC said. “The
Committee expects economic growth to remain moderate over coming
quarters and then to pick up very gradually.”  Fed officials lowered their forecasts for growth and raised
their predictions for unemployment in each of the next three
years.  Growth Outlook  Policy makers now see 1.9 percent to 2.4 percent growth in
2012, down from their April forecast of 2.4 percent to 2.9
percent. The  unemployment rate  will end the year at 8 percent to
8.2 percent, up from 7.8 percent to 8 percent in April.  Unemployment will end 2014 at 7 percent to 7.7 percent, up
from a 6.7 percent to 7.4 percent in April, according to their
so-called central tendency estimates, which exclude the three
highest and three lowest forecasts.  The Fed said today it will sell  Treasury securities  with
remaining maturities of about three years or less. It will
purchase securities with six years to 30 years remaining.  The existing maturity-extension program was announced Sept.
21 and expires this month. Under that program, the Fed is
selling $400 billion of short-term government debt and replacing
it with the same amount of longer-term Treasuries.  Borrowing costs have fallen since the Fed announced
Operation Twist. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to
a record low 1.4387 on June 1.  Little Concern  Today’s Fed statement and policy makers’ projections show
that there is little concern over inflation.  Inflation “has declined, mainly reflecting lower prices of
crude oil and gasoline, and longer-term inflation expectations
have remained stable,” the Fed said.  Oil prices  have slumped 23
percent to $84.03 a barrel yesterday since reaching a high of
$109.77 a barrel in February.  Central banks across the world are considering steps to
stimulate their economies.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  and three other policy
makers were overruled this month as they pushed to expand their
bank’s bond-purchase program, meeting minutes showed today.
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  left the door open
for a rate cut at a June 6 press conference.  Bank of Japan  The  Bank of Japan  should be ready to “take appropriate
actions without ruling out any options in advance” if the
European crisis worsens, some of its board members said in May,
according to minutes released today. The People’s Bank of  China 
cut borrowing costs for the first time since 2008 earlier this
month and loosened controls on banks’ lending and deposit rates.  Europe’s debt crisis has intensified since the FOMC’s
meeting in April, roiling financial markets. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index was down by 4.3 percent as of yesterday from
its 2012 peak on April 2.  “The  Federal Reserve  is very much involved with talking
with European leaders,” Bernanke said today. “We are prepared
to work together if that can be done constructively, but at this
point we’re mostly in consultation mode.”  The Fed’s two rounds of asset purchases totaling $2.3
trillion and record-low interest rates since December 2008 have
left the central bank short of its full-employment goal.  The economy added 69,000 jobs in May, the fewest in a year,
and the unemployment rate unexpectedly climbed to 8.2 percent
from 8.1 percent, its first increase in almost a year.  Companies are cutting back as the economy shows signs of
slowing. FedEx Corp., operator of the world’s largest cargo
airline, is restructuring its express business and retiring 24
jet freighters.  Slowing Growth  “We believe U.S. domestic and global economic conditions
will be impacted by the  European debt crisis , slowing growth in
 Asia  and the uncertainty these issues create on the global
economy and the demand for our services,” FedEx Chief Financial
Officer Alan Graf said yesterday on an earnings call.  Also taking a toll on the economy: concern that Congress
will fail to reach a compromise in time to avoid $600 billion in
tax increases and budget cuts next year.  Among government contractors coping with delayed
procurements and agency cost-cutting is Preferred Systems
Solutions, a Vienna, Virginia-based engineering and information
technology provider.  “I’m feeling more of a pinch and squeeze than I ever have
before,” said Scott Goss, president and chief executive
officer. “As soon as they start these massive cuts, they’re
going to impact the economy.”  Economic data in recent weeks have pointed to slowing
growth.  Sales Fell  Retail sales fell 0.2 percent for a second month in May,
according to a June 13 report from the Commerce Department, as
elevated unemployment and the smallest wage gains in a year
prompted consumers to curtail their spending.  Industrial production unexpectedly fell in May for the
second time in three months as factories turned out fewer
vehicles and  consumer goods , data from the Fed showed last week.  Fifty-eight percent of economists in a June 18 Bloomberg
News survey said the FOMC would prolong Operation Twist, with an
additional 8 percent predicting the Fed would announce the move
at its meeting on July 31-Aug. 1.  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  dissented for the
fourth meeting in a row, saying he doesn’t support extending
Operation Twist. He said last month he believes the central bank
will probably need to raise the main interest rate next year.  It was the first meeting for Governors  Jeremy Stein  and
Jerome Powell, who joined the Fed last month, raising the
Washington-based board to its full, seven-member strength for
the first time since 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  Washington  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  