-- Fed Seen Extending Operation Twist and Avoiding Bond Buys
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-06-20T11:55:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/fed-seen-extending-operation-twist-while-avoiding-bond-buying.html
The  Federal Reserve  will probably
decide today to expand Operation Twist beyond $400 billion to
spur growth and buy protection against a deeper crisis in
 Europe , according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Fifty-eight percent of respondents in a June 18 poll said
the Fed will prolong the program, which seeks to lower borrowing
costs by extending the average maturity of the securities in the
central bank’s portfolio. The current program ends this month.  Policy makers led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may conclude
that growth is too feeble to reduce unemployment much further
after payroll growth came close to stalling in May. At the same
time, with inflation close to their 2 percent goal and the Greek
election reducing the risk of a euro breakup, they may decide an
additional round of quantitative easing isn’t needed for now,
economists said.  “Extending Operation Twist is the path of least
resistance,” said Josh Feinman, the New York-based global chief
economist for DB Advisors, the Deutsche Bank AG asset management
unit that oversees $232.1 billion. “It would be an extension of
something we have in place, so it would be more seamless, and it
doesn’t complicate exit strategies as much because it’s not
expanding the balance sheet,” said Feinman, a former senior
economist for the Fed Board in Washington.  FOMC Meeting  The  Federal Open Market Committee , which ends its two-day
meeting today, will repeat in a statement that subdued inflation
and economic slack will probably warrant “exceptionally low”
 interest rates  through at least late 2014, according to 89
percent of the economists surveyed. The statement is set for
release at around 12:30 p.m. in Washington. Sixty percent said
the Fed probably won’t start a third round of large-scale bond
purchases, or quantitative easing.  The Fed at 2 p.m. will release policy makers’ forecasts for
unemployment, inflation and the expected path of the federal
funds rate over the next several years. Bernanke plans to hold a
press conference at about 2:15 p.m.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  was overruled for the
first time in almost three years today as he joined a push to
expand stimulus that’s gathering momentum as the danger of
Europe’s debt crisis intensifies. The Monetary Policy Committee
voted 5-4 to keep its bond-purchase target at 325 billion pounds
($511 billion) this month. That defeated votes by King and two
other committee members for a 50 billion-pound expansion.  Bonds, Stocks  Treasuries returned 3.3 percent from the end of March to
June 18, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Treasury
Master index, amid concern Europe’s debt crisis was worsening
and U.S. growth was slowing. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
lost 4.1 percent, after taking account of reinvested dividends.  Since the Fed announced Operation Twist on Sept. 21, the
yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note fell to 1.62 percent
yesterday from 1.86 percent. It fell to a record low 1.4387 on
June 1.  Stocks rose yesterday, sending the  S&P 500  to the highest
level in a month on speculation the Fed will announce steps to
boost the economy.  S&P 500 futures  expiring in September climbed
0.2 percent to 1,353.80 as of 7:30 a.m. in  New York .  Maturity Shift  So far under the $400 billion maturity-extension program,
the Fed has shifted about  $383 billion  into longer-term bonds.
The central bank has about $190 billion of debt with short-term
maturities for continuing Operation Twist for another three
months, according to calculations by Nomura Securities
International Inc.  Should the Fed extend the program beyond this month, it may
shift into mortgage-backed securities, in a bid to reduce the
average 30-year home-loan rate from the 3.71 percent level of
last week, said  Stuart Hoffman , chief economist at PNC Financial
Services Group Inc. in Pittsburgh.  “The economy still needs monetary stimulus, though QE3
seems to be a bridge too far,” he said. “Extending Operation
Twist signals the Fed is on the job, yet it is not as aggressive
as quantitative easing.”  Seventy-one percent of economists surveyed said the
election in  Greece  won’t influence Fed policy, while 22 percent
said the vote favoring pro-bailout parties reduced the
probability of more accommodation. Sixty four economists
responded to the survey.  Monthly Employment  Monthly employment gains have decelerated from a high this
year of 275,000 in January. U.S. payrolls rose 69,000 in May
after a 77,000 increase in April, according to data from the
Labor Department. The jobless rate climbed to 8.2 percent in May
from 8.1 percent the month before.  Target Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Gregg Steinhafel  said
on a conference call last month that the Minneapolis-based
retailer remains “cautious” about the U.S. expansion and is
planning its business on an assumption that “the current
economic recovery will continue to be slow and uneven.”  Retail sales fell 0.2 percent in May, following a similar
decline in April, the U.S. Commerce Department said June 13.
Sales excluding automobiles slumped by the most in two years.  Those results followed a series of disappointing annual
profit forecasts from consumer companies.  Procter & Gamble Co .,
Tiffany & Co., Lowe’s Cos. and Tempur-Pedic International Inc.
cut their projections, while predictions from Lululemon
Athletica Inc., Limited Brands Inc., Macy’s Inc. and  Clorox Co. (CLX) 
trailed analysts’ estimates.  Operation Twist  “There is too much uncertainty not to extend Operation
Twist,” said  Diane Swonk , chief economist in  Chicago  at Mesirow
Financial Inc., which oversees about $61.7 billion in assets.
“They need to signal their willingness to ease fairly
strongly.”  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart , who votes on policy
this year, described the economy in a June 6 speech as
“underwhelming” and the job reports as “disappointing.” The
option of prolonging Operation Twist is “on the table” he
said.  The FOMC in it is post-meeting statement could voice more
willingness to buy bonds if necessary, saying that it “stands
ready” to adjust its balance sheet rather than that it “is
prepared,” said  Michael Hanson , a senior U.S. economist at Bank
of America Corp. in New York.  The Fed reduced its  benchmark interest rate  almost to zero
in December 2008 and later bought $2.3 trillion in securities in
a bid to push longer-term borrowing costs lower. In January, it
said it would keep rates near zero at least through late 2014,
extending an earlier pledge of mid-2013.  The Fed started Operation Twist in September. Unlike with
quantitative easing, the program doesn’t increase its balance
sheet. Instead, the Fed sells short-term debt and uses the
proceeds to buy longer-term bonds. By keeping its assets stable,
the Fed can more easily “exit” from record accommodation when
the time comes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in  Washington  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  