-- Fewer Executives Plan to Boost Hiring in U.S., Survey Shows
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d
-- 2012-06-20T15:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/fewer-executives-plan-to-boost-hiring-in-u-s-survey-shows.html
Fewer chief executive officers plan
to boost hiring or capital spending in the U.S. through the end
of the year as sales expectations ease, pointing to a cooling in
the world’s largest economy, a survey showed.  The  Business Roundtable ’s economic outlook index decreased
to 89.1 in the second quarter from 96.9 in the previous three
months, the Washington-based trade group reported today. Readers
greater than 50 are consistent with economic expansion.  “The dip in quarterly sentiment reflects concern over
increasingly persistent obstacles to a stronger recovery,
including uncertainty over year-end U.S. government tax and
spending plans and a path to resolution of the euro-zone
crisis,” Jim McNerney, chief executive officer of Boeing Co. and
chairman of Business Roundtable, said in a conference call
today.  A slowdown in hiring and capital investments is among
reasons economists have been reducing estimates for U.S. growth.
Federal Reserve policy makers are meeting today to determine if
there is more than can do to stimulate the economy.  Thirty-six percent of CEOs surveyed said they will increase
payrolls in the next six months, down from 42 percent in the
prior quarter. Some 20 percent said they planned to reduce
employment, up from 16 percent.  Capital Spending  An increase in  spending  on new equipment is projected by 43
percent of respondents this quarter, down from 48 percent in the
previous three months. Seventy-five percent of business leaders
said they expected sales to increase in the next six months,
down from 81 percent last quarter.  Procter & Gamble Co ., the world’s largest consumer-goods
company, today reduced its earnings and revenue forecasts for
the second time in three months, hurt by slowing sales growth in
 Europe  and the U.S. The reduction in forecasts by the maker of
Tide washing detergent and Gillette razors illustrates the
difficulties faced by consumer-products makers as rising
unemployment in Europe and  North America  restricts spending.  The Business Roundtable survey, taken between May 17 and
June 8, represented the responses of 164 company leaders. The
association consists of chief executives of corporations with a
combined workforce of more than 14 million employees and more
than $6 trillion in annual revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Fairchild in Washington at 
 Cfairchild2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  