-- Florida Retirement Home Builder Among Donors to Romney Group
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-06-20T18:47:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/florida-retirement-home-builder-among-donors-to-romney-super-pac.html
The family that owns a 33-square-
mile retirement community near Ocala, Florida, wrote checks
totaling $428,400 last month to a super-political action
committee supporting presumptive Republican presidential nominee
 Mitt Romney .  Billionaire developer H. Gary Morse, chief executive
officer of The Villages of Lake Sumter, and his wife, Renee Morse, contributed $200,000, while three of his children gave
the rest, according to U.S. Federal Election Commission reports
filed today.  The family’s donations were among those itemized by Restore
Our Future, a super-PAC which raised about $5 million last month
and had about $8.4 million cash on hand as of May 31, the
reports show.  Romney, President  Barack Obama  and the super-PACs backing
them are due to file their May monthly financial disclosure
reports by midnight.  Romney and his general-election partners the Romney Victory
Fund raised $76.8 million last month, the campaign previously
said. Obama and his joint committee raised about $60 million,
his campaign said.  Other groups set to file today include American Crossroads,
a Republican super-PAC founded with the help of political
strategist  Karl Rove , and Priorities USA Action, a super-PAC
founded by former Obama aides.  Super-PAC’s Role  Restore Our Future has raised a total of $61.5 million
since April 2011. During the Republican nomination battle, the
group placed television ads attacking Romney’s opponents and it
is now airing anti-Obama ads.  Super-PACs can raise unlimited sums from individuals and
companies and can support a particular candidate so long as the
campaigns don’t coordinate with one another.  Restore Our Future’s largest May contribution of a combined
$1 million arrived May 22 from three companies registered to the
same post-office box in Dayton,  Ohio .  Auto supplier executive Robert Brockman is the common
denominator of those companies, according to corporate filings.
Brockman is chairman and chief executive officer of Reynolds &
Reynolds, a Dayton-based company that provides office supplies
and professional services to car dealers and automakers.  CRC Information Systems Inc. and Fairbanks Properties LLC
each gave $333,333 to the super-PAC, while Waterbury Properties
LLC contributed $333,334. Brockman is listed as manager of
Fairbanks in filings with the  Florida  Division of Corporations.
He is the registered director of Waterbury, according to Texas
tax records. CRC is a Reynolds company.  Maximum to Romney  A spokesman for Reynolds said Brockman wasn’t immediately
available. Brockman has given the maximum $5,000 to Romney’s
campaign, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington-based group that tracks political donations.  The Morse family made its contributions on May 1, according
to the FEC reports. Sumter County, home of The Villages, is home
to almost twice as many registered Republicans as Democrats, and
so is a regular fundraising stop for Republican candidates.
Developer Morse is part of Romney’s Florida finance team.  May marked the first time he and his family members gave to
Restore Our Future, according to FEC reports.  The Villages is one of the world’s largest retirement
communities, where Morse has built and sold more than 44,000
homes since 1983.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  