-- Florida Governor Snubbed by Romney After Political Gaffes
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-06-20T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/florida-governor-snubbed-by-romney-after-political-gaffes.html
Florida  Governor Rick Scott keeps
alienating the people he’s trying to befriend.  The Republican’s effort to win support from Cuban-Americans
resulted in threats of a lawsuit. At a lunch to charm black
lawmakers, he offended them. He turned a goodwill mission into
comedy-show fodder when he greeted Spain’s king by asking about
the monarch’s politically sensitive elephant hunt.  The governor’s gaffes, along with an approval rating that
hasn’t gone above 41 percent in  Quinnipiac University  polls, may
hurt his party’s presidential contender,  Mitt Romney . Florida is
one of the most competitive  electoral  battlegrounds, with the
past three presidential races decided by 5 percentage points or
less. Romney hasn’t campaigned with Scott.  “ Rick Scott  doesn’t seem to have any political skills at
all,” said Tom Slade, the former co-chairman of Scott’s
campaign and ex-chairman of the  Republican Party  of Florida.
“I’d give him a B for governing. I’d give him an A for
strangeness.”  Adding to Scott’s misery: His office is facing a criminal
investigation over missing e-mail; the federal government is
suing the state over purging voters from the rolls; and the
governor recently hired his third chief of staff in 18 months.  Scott, 59, moved to Florida about a decade ago while he was
running his own private-equity firm. A former chief executive
officer of  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) , a Nashville, Tennessee-based
hospital operator, he was forced out amid a Medicare fraud
investigation that resulted in criminal charges against the
company. Scott, who wasn’t charged, said he did nothing wrong.  Transition to Office  Scott has struggled with the transition from the boardroom
to the governorship of the nation’s fourth-most-populous state,
said  Susan MacManus , a political science professor at the
University of  South Florida  in Tampa.  “Public relations is very important to your success,”
MacManus said. “He’s had a serious problem and has had to have
a major repair job.”  The governor’s approval rating is 39 percent, according to
a poll today from Quinnipiac University. That’s down from 41
percent on May 24, his best in any 12 surveys from the Hamden,
Connecticut school, and up from 29 percent a year earlier.  The state Republican party has tried to improve his ratings
with nine weeks of television ads that started running in March
in four cities, highlighting Scott’s record. The state party
also has paid for recorded calls to voters, websites and
Facebook ads promoting Scott since he’s been in office.  Helping Obama  Scott’s unpopularity may help President  Barack Obama ’s re-
election effort, said  Tom Jensen , director of Public Policy
Polling in Raleigh,  North Carolina .  “Obama’s more competitive in Florida right now than I
would have expected,” Jensen said in an e-mail. “The damage
Scott has done to the Republican brand is part of that.”  Romney’s staff has concluded there’s no benefit in
appearing with Scott, said two campaign advisers who asked for
anonymity because they weren’t authorized to discuss the matter.  “The safe thing is for he and Romney to go their separate
ways,” said Slade, the former Republican official.  Alberto Martinez, a Romney spokesman, declined to comment
on the two appearing together. Scott is “implementing a pro-
growth agenda despite the challenges placed in his way by
President Obama’s failed economic policies,” Martinez said.  Scott declined to be interviewed for this story. His
spokesman Brian Burgess, defended the governor’s record.  “Reasonable people can debate governing style all they
want, but when it comes to substance, Governor Scott is turning
the state around and is delivering exactly what he promised,”
Burgess said.  Keynote Speech  The governor hoped to deliver a keynote speech at the
 Republican National Convention  in Tampa in August, he told the
Fort Myers News-Press last month. So far, Scott is being offered
only a talk at a welcoming event for media and delegates, said
Al Austin, head of the convention’s Host Committee.  Scott and Romney have distinctly different messages on the
economy. Scott travels around the state talking about
improvements, while Romney’s supporters run television ads in
Florida saying  unemployment  remains high.  “Florida is turning around under Governor Scott,”
Republican Party of Florida Chairman Lenny Curry said.  Since Scott took office on January 4, 2011, shares of
Florida-based companies rose about 10.5 percent through
yesterday, according to the  Bloomberg State Index of Florida .
Companies in the index include  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE)  and  CSX Corp. (CSX) 
During the same period, the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index
increased 6.9 percent.  Unemployment Rate  Florida’s 8.6 percent  unemployment rate  is down from 11.1
percent in December 2010, before Scott took office. The current
rate is ninth highest among U.S. states and remains above the
8.2 percent national average. The state’s percentage of troubled
 mortgages  leads the nation, according to the  Mortgage Bankers
Association .  Scott pledged to create 700,000 jobs in seven years -- in
addition to those that economists projected would be added by
normal employment growth. Scott backed away from that promise in
October, telling reporters he would count expected growth.  In March, he sent letters to 100  New York  City chief
executives asking them to relocate or expand in Florida. Another
round went out to France last month. No company has moved
because of the letters, said Stuart Doyle, a spokesman for
Enterprise Florida, the state’s economic-development arm.  Jacksonville Mayor Alvin Brown, a Democrat, credits the
governor for helping preserve jobs when an out-of-state company
purchased a local grocery chain.  Tea Party  “I’ve been able to work with Governor Scott,” Brown said.
“He’s focused on jobs.”  Scott is a former  Tea Party  activist who has pushed the
Republican-controlled Legislature to cut spending, threatening
to veto any spending plan that increased revenue.  The governor’s priorities appear out of sync with voters,
said state Senator Paula Dockery, a Lakeland Republican. She
cited a measure the governor persuaded the Legislature to
approve that forced state workers to contribute to their
pensions, his veto of money for rape-crisis centers and support
for spending $5 million on a Sarasota rowing facility.  “He doesn’t seem to understand what the average Floridian
is going through,” Dockery said.  The U.S. Justice Department sued Florida this month over a
policy backed by Scott that removes noncitizens from voter
rolls. The lawsuit says the state violated election law and
relied on inaccurate information. Scott said the state is
fighting voter fraud.  Cuba Controversy  In a separate matter, the Florida Department of  Law
Enforcement  is investigating e-mail that went missing from
Scott’s transition, a potential violation of public records law.  Then, there are Scott’s personal missteps.  Last month, he visited Miami to woo Cuban-American
residents, the state’s largest Hispanic voting bloc. He was
there to sign legislation blocking governments in Florida from
hiring companies that do business in Cuba or Syria.  Among those joining him was U.S. Representative Mario Diaz- Balart, who rode in an elevator with Scott and reviewed what the
governor planned to say.  Scott’s talking points said the federal government would
have to enforce the measure. Diaz-Balart, a Miami Republican,
said in an interview that he told the governor he strongly
objected to that. Scott stood silent, he said.  Scott signed the bill -- and dropped the remarks that
prompted Diaz-Balart’s complaint. The governor won his applause.  Elephant Question  Then, after leaving Miami, Scott sent a letter to Florida
Secretary of State Ken Detzner saying the law couldn’t be
enforced.  U.S. Representative David Rivera, a Cuban-American,
threatened Scott with a lawsuit and, two days later, Scott
promised to enforce the law.  “His equivocating will plant a seed that maybe this guy
can’t be as trusted,” said  Paul George , a Miami Dade College
professor who teaches Cuban-American history. “It’s in the back
of the minds of a lot of people here.”  On May 22, Scott met with King Juan Carlos to invite him to
Florida’s 500th anniversary celebration next year of the Spanish
explorer Juan Ponce de Leon, who led the first European
expedition to the state. Scott entered the king’s office and
immediately asked about his hunting expedition in Botswana.  “I’ve ridden elephants,” Scott said. “I’ve never tried
to shoot one.”  The king earlier had to apologize for taking the jaunt as
high unemployment and bad loans depressed  Spain ’s economy. A
 video  of the exchange was played on Spanish comedy shows.  Scott apologized.  ‘Public Housing’  Six weeks into office, Scott offended another group: black
lawmakers. The setting was a governor’s mansion lunch. The black
legislative caucus had complained Scott’s appointments lacked
diversity. Scott, whose stepfather was a truck driver and mother
was a store clerk, told members that he “grew up probably in
the same situation as you guys.”  “I started school in public housing,” he said. “My dad
had a sixth-grade education.”  Lawmakers said Scott made unfair assumptions about their
backgrounds because of their skin color.  “I was offended,” said Representative Betty Reed. “It
was disrespectful and assuming every black person grew up in the
projects.”  Scott’s unpopularity has Democrats, who haven’t won a
governor’s race in Florida since 1994, optimistic about 2014.  “If you’re a Democrat thinking you ever want to be
governor, the next go-round is probably a good time to run,”
said Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer, a Democrat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  