-- FLSmidth Advances as Rio Invests in Iron Ore: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-20T11:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/flsmidth-advances-as-rio-invests-in-iron-ore-copenhagen-mover.html
FLSmidth & Co. A/S (FLS)  led today’s
benchmark gainers in Copenhagen amid speculation the company’s
plan to improve its bulk materials business will help profits as
 Rio Tinto  Group boosts investment in  iron ore .  FLSmidth advanced as much as 2.2 percent, making it the
biggest winner in the  OMXC20 Index (KFX)  of 20 companies. The shares
advanced 4 kroner, or 1.3 percent, to 319.50 kroner at 12:28
p.m. in the Danish capital.  “The turnaround process in bulk materials is running
according to plan,” Patrik Setterberg, an analyst at Nordea
Bank AB in Copenhagen, said in a note to clients today. He
repeated a buy recommendation on FLSmidth shares.  Rio Tinto is committing $4.2 billion to expand iron ore
mines as the world’s second-largest exporter of iron ore invests
in its Simandou operation in Guinea as well as in mines in
 Australia ’s Pilbara, it said today.  Changes to FLSmidth’s bulk material tendering process will
increase profit margins through 2013, Nordea said in the note.
The unit, which provides equipment for transporting iron ore out
of mines, is currently Copenhagen-based FLSmidth’s least
profitable of its four main divisions.  Nordea estimates the unit will increase its margin on
earnings before interest, tax and appreciation to 4.7 percent of
revenue this year and 6.8 percent in 2013. That compares with a
2011 margin of 4.5 percent.  “It will take some time before margins increase
significantly,” Setterberg said. “The main reason being that
it will take time for implemented changes in the tendering
process -- 12 to 24 months -- to become visible in the profit-
and-loss results.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  