-- Founder of $125 Billion Gold ETP Market Stymied on Copper
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-06-21T18:24:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/founder-of-125-billion-gold-etp-market-stymied-on-copper.html
Graham Tuckwell, who created a $125
billion market in exchange-traded gold in less than a decade, is
struggling to convince regulators and investors he can do the
same for industrial metals.  More than a year after he sought permission to start an
exchange-traded product backed by copper held in warehouses, the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has yet to approve the
plan. Investors in a similar London-listed fund from Tuckwell’s
ETF Securities Ltd. accumulated just $13.2 million of copper
since December 2010, equal to about 46 minutes of global demand,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While Tuckwell created a class of securities now backed by
2,405 metric tons of gold, exceeding the reserves of all but
four central banks, he’s had less success with industrial
metals. The new products are opposed by some consumers concerned
they will cause shortages of materials used in everything from
cables to cars, while the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission is trying to limit speculation.  “As you move away from the typical investment products to
things that would be viewed to be more usable commodities,
regulators become more concerned,” said  Deborah Fuhr , a co-
founder of London-based research group ETFGI LLP and the former
head of ETF research at BlackRock Inc. “Graham really was the
guy who brought the first exchange-traded gold product to the
markets. As you move into other commodities, though, they tend
not to be seen as an investment by most investors.”  Storage Costs  The drive to list U.S. ETPs backed by copper comes at a
time of tumbling prices. The LMEX gauge of six metals declined
18 percent since this year’s peak on Feb. 9 as the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities retreated 18 percent.
Commodities fell 2.5 percent to 560.82 as of 2:02 p.m. today and
will be in a  bear market  if the index closes at that level.  Investor demand also may be stifled by the warehouse
storage costs associated with industrial metals. ETF Securities’
London-listed copper ETP has annual management and insurance
expenses of 0.81 percent and a rental fee of almost $150 a ton
per year, data on the company’s website show. That compares with
an annual expense of 0.39 percent for its gold-backed ETP.  “The challenge is straightforward,” said Dave Nadig, the
director of research at IndexUniverse LLC, a San Francisco-based
ETF analysis group. “I can hold a million dollars worth of gold
in my hand, but I would have to stack aluminum up as high as my
house to get a million dollars.”  ETF’s plan for copper is one of seven products it submitted
to U.S. regulators for approval in February 2011, including
aluminum, tin, nickel, zinc, lead and a basket of base metals.  Prices Higher  Plans to create U.S. ETPs backed by industrial metals are
opposed by some consumers. Vandenberg & Feliu LLP, representing
an unidentified group of U.S. fabricators and a merchant
company, wrote to the  SEC (COPA)  in May to object to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s plan for a copper-backed ETP.  The product will cause prices to rise, “which will
severely disrupt the world market for the trading of such
copper,” the New York-based law firm said in the letter. The
group includes Southwire Co., a wire and cable manufacturer
based in Carrollton,  Georgia , according to an SEC document dated
May 14.  Florence Harmon, an SEC spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The market for ETPs exploded in the past decade by offering
investors access to almost all asset classes in a security that
could be traded like a stock and with fees that undercut most
mutual and hedge funds. While one gold contract on the Comex
exchange in  New York  costs more than $160,000, ETF Securities’
ETP can be bought for about $160 a share. There were 4,650 ETFs
and ETPs with assets of $1.62 trillion by the end of May, up
from 105 holding $79 billion in 2000, according to ETFGI.  Behind Gold  ETF Securities already has London-listed ETPs backed by
aluminum, lead, zinc, tin and nickel stored in warehouses.
Holdings across the products have so far lagged behind  gold ,
with none of their market capitalizations exceeding $3.2
million. They will grow as more investors discover them and
financial advisers recommend them, Tuckwell said.  “The intermediaries, I think, is where the missing piece
is,” Tuckwell said in interviews in March and on June 19. “You
get this conflict between mutual funds or the asset managers and
the ETFs, because we’re basically eating their lunch. The
money’s flowing toward us, and will naturally flow toward us
because it’s cheaper, more efficient and more transparent.”  Tuckwell, 55, has overcome objections before. The Canberra,
Australia-born entrepreneur was undeterred in 2002 when the
Australian Gold Council rejected his plan for gold ETPs modeled
on existing securities backed by cases of wine. Investors were
trading particular vintages and he proposed treating gold bars
in vaults like bottles in cellars.  Gold Council  Tuckwell, who holds degrees in economics and law from the
 Australian National University , brought the plan instead to the
producer-funded World Gold Council in  London , which approved the
proposal. The first gold ETPs were listed in 2003 in the U.K.
and Australia, with each share representing a 10th of an ounce.
In an interview in June 2003 in Lisbon, he predicted investors
would hold 50 tons in ETPs within a year. They now own 48 times
that amount.  The introduction of the ETPs came three years into the
longest gold  bull market  in at least nine decades, with bullion
rising every year since 2001 and increasing sixfold over the
period. Commodity prices also exploded as producers failed to
keep up with demand, attracting $429 billion of investment by
April in ETPs, index-linked funds and medium-term notes,
according to Barclays Plc.  ETF Securities, based in  Jersey ,  Channel Islands , went on
to create ETPs in everything from agriculture to energy to
currencies, working with HSBC Holdings Plc, Royal Dutch Shell
Plc, UBS AG and Morgan Stanley. It has about $25.8 billion of
assets under management, according to data on its website.  Credit Suisse  Tuckwell’s career has taken him from working as a mergers
and acquisitions banker for  Credit Suisse First Boston  in
 Australia  to  executive director  for strategy and acquisitions at
Normandy Mining, a gold producer later bought by Newmont Mining
Corp. The father of four also worked as head of mining in the
Asia-Pacific region for  Salomon Brothers  and founded Investor
Resources Ltd., a consultant to commodity companies.  The success of Tuckwell’s gold ETFs spawned similar
products from Deutsche Bank AG,  State Street Global Advisors  and
Credit Suisse Group AG. Now, JPMorgan and BlackRock, both based
in New York, are also seeking U.S. listing for ETPs backed by
industrial metals.  U.S. commodity ETPs grew to $117.6 billion under management
at the end of March, from $14.5 billion in 2006, according to
the  ETF Industry Association , a Philadelphia-based trade group.
Commodities make up 9.7 percent of all U.S.-listed ETF assets,
almost triple the 3.3 percent in 2006.  The process “has been a bit frustrating,” said Tuckwell,
who in his spare time enjoys math puzzles and golf. “If, as we
believe, the ETF industry is a massive growth industry for the
next few decades relative to the other asset-management
businesses, then fair enough, it should be understood by
regulators and investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  