-- France, Iran Join UN Talks Rebuked by Climate Groups
-- B y   R e e d   L a n d b e r g
-- 2012-06-20T03:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/france-iran-join-un-talks-rebuked-by-climate-groups.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
and  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  of  Iran  will join envoys from 190
countries today at United Nations talks on sustainability that
environmental groups have denounced for producing a toothless
accord.  Diplomats in Rio de Janeiro agreed to back a 49-page plan
yesterday for harmonizing economic development with efforts to
protect the environment. World leaders are expected to endorse
on June 22 the agreement, the broadest to date, which lacks
specific goals sought by environmentalists and the European
Union.  The agreement is expected to set the agenda for policy
makers to follow in the coming decades, and officials are
already criticizing it.  “Rio is just the beginning and a range of activities have
to be followed through,” Janez Potocnik, EU Environment
Commissioner, said in a statement.  EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  expressed
frustration in a posting on Twitter saying, “nobody in that
room adopting the text was happy. That’s how weak it is.”  The document entitled “The Future We Want,” marks the
20th anniversary of the first Earth Summit and addresses ways to
restrain for fossil-fuel subsidies, while supporting renewable
energy and protecting oceans.  Environmental groups from WWF to Greenpeace International
said diplomats caved in to pressure from business lobbyists to
water down the agreement.  “We will now only be presented with a polluter’s charter
that will cook the planet, empty the oceans and wreck the rain
forests,” said Daniel Mittler, political director for
Greenpeace International.  ‘Strong Step’  “It isn’t everything to everybody,” Todd Stern, a State
Department official leading negotiations for the U.S., said at a
briefing. “It was a good strong step forward.”  He praised the Brazilians for finding a compromise before
world leaders arrive, saying “It’s really difficult to manage
such an unruly group of players.”  The discussions cap more than a year of negotiations on how
to advance the work begun in Rio two decades ago, when the UN
started talks to halt global warming and safeguard the diversity
of plants and animals. This year’s meeting dubbed Rio+20
involves 50,000 government officials, company executives and
research analysts.  Top Envoys  UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon will formally open the
final portion of the discussions today at 10 a.m.  Brazil , which
organized the talks, defended the text and said every country
had to compromise. It has no plan to reopen the document for
debate by leaders, some of whom spent the first part of the week
in  Mexico  at the Group of 20 summit.  “Now is the time to stress the victory of the positive
parts of the text,” Brazilian Foreign Minister Antonio Patriota
said at a briefing in Rio yesterday. “It was accepted because
there was a balance. We did achieve a lot.”  Participants are spread across Rio in hotels and at an
airport-sized convention center in the west of the city,
discussing subjects from corporate sustainability reporting to
ensuring arsenic from mines doesn’t contaminate drinking water.  ‘Universal Sewer’  Celebrity executives, including  Richard Branson  of Virgin
Group Ltd., joined government officials, scientists and
activists in expressing concern about the health of the planet
at the talks this week.  “We’re using the ocean as a universal sewer, and that’s
true wherever you live,” Jean-Michel Cousteau, 74, the eldest
son of the French ocean explorer Jacques, said on a panel
discussion at the conference. “We are putting a lot of pressure
on the planet. It’s not getting any better.”  The text pledges negotiations toward a new set of
“sustainable development” goals, though it will be left to
future meetings to define those targets.  “This is a first step, not a long step,” said Quamrul
Chowdhury, an envoy from  Bangladesh  who negotiates on finance
for the G77 group of  developing countries . “The whole document
emphasizes business commitments. It opens up a window for
cooperation between the public sector and the private. It’s not
the classic notion the public sector can do it all alone.”  The accord represents an effort to chart the middle ground
between countries such as the European Union’s 27 members, which
want to push a “green economy” that includes renewable power
and energy-efficiency measures, and poorer nations whose
priority is lifting people out of poverty rather than pursuing
expensive clean technologies.  ‘Hijacked’ Positions  Friends of the Earth International, another environmental
group, said the UN process has been taken over by big business,
which has diverted the traditional priorities of standing up for
the poor and protecting the Earth.  “Governmental positions have been increasingly hijacked by
narrow corporate interests linked to polluting industries,”
said Nnimmo Bassey, chairman of Friends of the Earth. “The UN
is increasingly catering to the demands of corporate
interests.”  Delegates inserted “toothless language” into their
agreement that will do little to roll back carbon dioxide
emissions or protect the oceans from toxic waste, said Jim Leape, director general of the WWF environmental group.  “The text has lots of words that ‘commit’ parties to
nothing -- such as ‘commit to promote’ and ‘commit to
systematically consider,’” Leape said. “Diplomats in Rio are
letting the world down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg in Rio de Janeiro at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  