-- French World Cup Demons Return as Players Row in Sweden Loss
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-21T11:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/french-world-cup-demons-return-as-players-row-after-sweden-loss.html
In-fighting that marred  France ’s
2010  World Cup  campaign showed signs of returning as players
argued after a 2-0 loss to  Sweden  in the final group game of
soccer’s European Championship.  Tempers rose in the locker room inside Kiev’s Olympic
Stadium after the June 19 defeat to the already eliminated
Swedes. The result meant France faces world and European
champion Spain in the quarterfinals on June 23, instead of Italy
which it would’ve played had it topped Group D.  “When you’ve lost you’re a lot more hot blooded,” France
coach Laurent Blanc told reporters at a news conference in the
Chamber of Commerce in Donetsk, Ukraine, yesterday. “It got
heated, but we all cooled down after a good shower.”  Blanc became manager after France finished bottom of its
group at the World Cup two years ago following two losses and a
draw in  South Africa . During that tournament, players refused to
train for a day in support of striker  Nicolas Anelka , who was
sent home for insulting coach  Raymond Domenech . Blanc demanded
that players behave “impeccably” after he took charge.  Goalkeeper Hugo Lloris said the team ambiance was much
better at the start of the 16-team European Championship than it
was in South Africa.  France outplayed  England  in a 1-1 tie on June 11 before
beating co-host Ukraine 2-0 to lead Group D. England, which
defeated Sweden 3-2, beat Ukraine 1-0 to top the pool and set up
a meeting with Italy on June 24 for a place in the semifinals.  ‘Awoke Some Demons’  Spain topped Group C and is rated the 9-4 second favorite
at U.K. bookmaker Ladbrokes to retain the title, while France is
10-1, meaning a $1 bet would return $10 plus the original stake.
Record three-time champion  Germany  is the 21-10 favorite.  Florent Malouda, a member of the 2010 squad and the oldest
player on the roster, said he criticized teammates after the
defeat to Sweden, which “awoke some demons in me.”  “Sometimes you need to aim a few bursts of gunfire at each
other,” the 32-year-old Chelsea midfielder, who played the
final 31 minutes against Sweden, told reporters.  He said he refused to speak with the press after the match
because he was afraid about what he would say about the manner
in which a 23-match unbeaten run had come to a halt.  “In the heat of the moment there was the risk of launching
rockets and missiles,” he said. “There are some things to sort
out and sometimes you can really hurt someone with a comment.”  ‘Nonchalance’  Malouda said Blanc stopped a training session on the eve of
the game and told the players, “there was nonchalance creeping
in.”  “We’re not here to take a stroll in our flip-flops,”
Malouda said.  The defeat and subsequent arguments may help players’
motivation for the  Spain  game, said Blanc, who made 97
international appearances for Les Bleus.  “It can be constructive,” the coach said. “It shows
there’s a reaction and a bit of electricity. I hope there will
be some against Spain but in the right sense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Ukraine via the London newsroom at 
3677 or  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  