-- Fuel-Cell Frenzy Looks to Convert Obama Favoring Plug-Ins
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-06-20T20:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/fuel-cell-frenzy-looks-to-convert-obama-favoring-plug-ins.html
Remarks by two aides to President
 Barack Obama  yesterday calling fuel cells part of the solution
for improving automobile efficiency gave boosters some optimism
the U.S. will help create a market for the technology.  Hydrogen fuel cells, encouraged by President  George W. Bush , lost favor to plug-in electric vehicles after Obama took
office in 2009. Energy Secretary Steven Chu questioned the
merits of hydrogen-powered cars and cut funding for fuel-cell
research, as Obama set a goal of having 1 million electric
vehicles on the road by 2015.  “There’s been a dramatic turnaround in the past six to
nine months of the need for this in the future” by the Energy
Department, Scott Samuelsen, National Fuel Cell Research Center
director, said in an interview at a conference in  Washington 
sponsored by the Hydrogen Education Foundation. “What has not
yet occurred is the action that will be needed to meet the needs
by 2015.”  That’s the year by which automakers including  Toyota Motor
Co. (7203)  are aiming to introduce their first fuel-cell vehicles in
the U.S. Honda Motor Co.’s FCX Clarity and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes
Benz B-Class are available now in parts of California, where
environmental rules encourage zero-emission vehicles.  Revived interest in fuel cells coincides with congressional
scrutiny of U.S. financial assistance to plug-in vehicle and
battery makers including  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE)  and Fisker Automotive
Inc. Last year, Congress held hearings into a fire in a  General
Motors Co. (GM)  Chevrolet Volt after crash testing.  ‘All-In Approach’  Automotive fuel cells are layers of platinum-coated plastic
film sandwiched between metal plates that create electricity
from the chemical reaction of hydrogen and oxygen. Vehicles use
the same type of electric motors and controls as battery-only
models, and neither emits tailpipe pollutants.  Hydrogen, the universe’s most abundant element, is
available in high volume for industrial uses by reforming
natural gas or splitting water using electricity.  Heather Zichal , Obama’s top aide on energy and climate
change, called hydrogen cells “an opportunity” for improving
fuel economy in remarks at yesterday’s conference.  She urged the U.S. not to fall behind  Japan ,  Germany  and
 Korea  in research and production. She cited  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. and Wegmans Food Markets Inc. for using fuel
cells to power vehicles for their fleets.  “Fuel cells are truly an integral part of our portfolio
and part of our all-in approach,” David Danielson, Energy
Department assistant secretary for  energy efficiency  and
renewable energy, said at the conference.  Lawn Ornaments  Mercedes tomorrow opens a fuel-cell factory in Burnaby,
 Canada , that the Stuttgart, Germany-based carmaker calls the
world’s first dedicated to producing the devices solely for
passenger vehicles. The company has said the 2,000-square-meter
line will make fuel cells for use in Mercedes’ C- and E-class
sedans.  Auto executives at the conference said they aren’t looking
for loans or grants like they sought for plug-in electric cars
because the technology is developed, though they’d welcome U.S.
support for hydrogen fueling stations and a nice word from Chu.  Toyota is “trying to figure out what the next few years
are going to be like and how we can get the number of stations
we need to support our rollout,” said Craig Scott, advanced
technologies group manager for Toyota Motor Sales USA.
“Otherwise we have a lot of very expensive lawn ornaments.”  Research Cuts  U.S. drivers have only 56 hydrogen fueling stations to
choose from, according to the Energy Department. Twenty-three of
those are in  California . Installing a hydrogen fueling station
costs from $500,000 to $800,000, said Samuelsen, whose center is
located at the  University of California  at  Irvine .  Neither Danielson nor Zichal yesterday made promises of
helping build fueling stations for consumers.  Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat who has sponsored
legislation to give tax incentives to buy hydrogen-powered cars
and to install fuel pumps for them, said the administration
hasn’t come far enough.  “Research and development funding for fuel cells keeps
getting cut, and it has year after year,” Wyden said at the
conference. “Fuel-cell technology is not something that is
fodder for debates for decades in the future.”  Obama’s budget request would cut funding for the Energy
Department’s Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Technologies office to $80
million in the 2013 fiscal year from $103.6 million in this
year’s budget, said Bill Gibbons, a department spokesman.  GM Advances  GM announced plans in 2006 to build 100 hydrogen-powered
sport-utility vehicles in 2007 and to have 1,000 fuel-cell
vehicles on the road by 2010.  The Detroit-based automaker built more than 100 hydrogen-
powered Chevrolet Equinoxes, some of which are still used in
fleets, Randal Fox, a GM spokesman, said. Lack of fueling
infrastructure has limited GM’s investment and production, Fox
said.  “Fuel cells can be commercialized by mid-decade in limited
quantities, in specific geographic regions where refueling
infrastructures exist,” he said. “GM continues to develop the
technology in an effort to reduce costs and continues to assist
in the deployment of an infrastructure for mass production.”  Fuel cell vehicles, estimated to cost more than $1 million
each a decade ago, can eventually be mass-produced at much lower
costs than battery-only models, Michael O’Brien, Hyundai Motor’s
U.S. vice president of product development, said in an interview
in  La Jolla , California, yesterday.  $600 Leases  Unlike battery-electric cars such as Toyota’s Scion iQ EV,
Ford Motor Co.’s electric Focus hatchback and Honda’s Fit EV,
fuel-cell vehicles tend to be midsize-class sedans and sport-
utility vehicles. They have a range of 300 miles (483
kilometers) or more per fill-up and can be refueled in about
five minutes, making them more comparable to gasoline-engine
cars than plug-in electrics, O’Brien said.  Honda rents the  FCX Clarity  in 3-year leases to 25
customers for about $600 per month. The company expects to have
more cars available to lease next month following production
disruptions caused by last year’s earthquake in Japan, Jonathan
Otto, a Honda spokesman, said.  Mercedes, which has invested $2 billion in fuel-cell
vehicle research, leases 44 fuel-cell vehicles, said Sascha
Simon, Mercedes-Benz USA advanced product planning director.  Simon said in an interview last month that Mercedes’s first
hydrogen cars for sale to retail customers will sell for “much
less” than $50,000.  “There is not that chicken-and-egg issue of what comes
first, the car or the station,” he said yesterday. “Both have
to happen at the same time. You can’t have one without the
other.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  