-- G-20 Leaders’ Statement Backing Euro Area Efforts (Full Text)
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-20T00:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/g-20-leaders-statement-backing-euro-area-efforts-full-text-.html
The following is a reformatted
version of a statement released today by leaders of the Group of
20 emerging and industrialized nations following their summit in
Los Cabos,  Mexico .  G20 Leaders Declaration  1. We, the Leaders of the G20, convened in Los Cabos on 18-19
June 2012.  2. We are united in our resolve to promote growth and jobs.  3. Since we last met, the global recovery has continued to face
a number of challenges. Financial market tensions are high.
External, fiscal and financial imbalances are still prevalent,
having a major impact on growth and employment prospects and
confidence. Clearly, the global economy remains vulnerable, with
a negative impact on the everyday lives of people all over the
world, affecting jobs, trade, development, and the environment.  4. We will act together to strengthen recovery and address
financial market tensions.  5. We will work collectively to strengthen demand and restore
confidence with a view to support growth and foster financial
stability in order to create high quality jobs and opportunities
for all of our citizens. We have agreed today on a coordinated
Los Cabos Growth and Jobs Action Plan to achieve those goals.  6. Euro Area members of the G20 will take all necessary policy
measures to safeguard the integrity and stability of the area,
improve the functioning of financial markets and break the
feedback loop between sovereigns and banks. We look forward to
the Euro Area working in partnership with the next Greek
government to ensure they remain on the path to reform and
sustainability within the Euro Area.  7. We are implementing our structural and regulatory reform
agenda to enhance medium-term growth prospects and build more
resilient financial systems. We remain committed to reduce
imbalances by strengthening deficit countries’ public finances
with sound and sustainable policies that take into account
evolving economic conditions and, in countries with large
current account surpluses, by strengthening domestic demand and
moving toward greater exchange rate flexibility.  8. Despite the challenges we all face domestically, we have
agreed that multilateralism is of even greater importance in the
current climate, and remains our best asset to resolve the
global economy’s difficulties.  9. Recognizing the impact of the continuing crisis on  developing
countries , particularly low income countries, we will intensify
our efforts to create a more conducive environment for
development, including supporting infrastructure investment. Our
policy actions will improve living conditions across the globe
and protect the most vulnerable. In particular, by stabilizing
global markets and promoting stronger growth, we will generate
significant positive effects on development and poverty
reduction across the globe.  Supporting economic stabilization and the global recovery  10. Strong, sustainable and balanced growth remains the top
priority of the G20, as it leads to higher job creation and
increases the welfare of people across the world. We are
committed to adopting all necessary policy measures to
strengthen demand, support global growth and restore confidence,
address short and medium-term risks, enhance  job creation  and
reduce unemployment, as reflected in the Los Cabos Growth and
Jobs Action Plan (see Annex). We will implement all our
commitments in a timely manner and rigorously monitor their
implementation.  11. Against the background of renewed market tensions, Euro Area
members of the G20 will take all necessary measures to safeguard
the integrity and stability of the area, improve the functioning
of financial markets and break the feedback loop between
sovereigns and banks. We welcome the significant actions taken
since the last summit by the Euro Area to support growth, ensure
financial stability and promote fiscal responsibility as a
contribution to the G20 framework for strong, sustainable and
balanced growth. In this context, we welcome  Spain ’s plan to
recapitalize its banking system and the Eurogroup’s announcement
of support for Spain’s financial restructuring authority.
The adoption of the Fiscal Compact and its ongoing
implementation, together with growth-enhancing policies and
structural reform and financial stability measures, are
important steps towards greater fiscal and economic integration
that lead to sustainable borrowing costs. The imminent
establishment of the European Stability Mechanism is a
substantial strengthening of the European firewalls. We fully
support the actions of the Euro Area in moving forward with the
completion of the Economic and Monetary Union. Towards that end,
we support the intention to consider concrete steps towards a
more integrated financial architecture, encompassing banking
supervision, resolution and recapitalization, and  deposit
insurance . Euro Area members will foster intra Euro Area
adjustment through structural reforms to strengthen
competitiveness in deficit countries and to promote demand and
growth in surplus countries. The European Union members of the
G20 are determined to move forward expeditiously on measures to
support growth including through completing the European Single
Market and making better use of European financial means, such
as the  European Investment Bank  (EIB), pilot project bonds, and
structural and cohesion funds, for more targeted investment,
employment, growth and competitiveness, while maintaining the
firm commitment to implement fiscal consolidation to be assessed
on a structural basis. We look forward to the Euro Area working
in partnership with the next Greek government to ensure they
remain on the path to reform and sustainability within the Euro
Area.  12. All G20 members will take the necessary actions to
strengthen global growth and restore confidence. Advanced
economies will ensure that the pace of fiscal consolidation is
appropriate to support the recovery, taking country-specific
circumstances into account and, in line with the Toronto
commitments, address concerns about medium term fiscal
sustainability. Those advanced and emerging economies which have
fiscal space will let the automatic fiscal stabilizers to
operate taking into account national circumstances and current
demand conditions. Should economic conditions deteriorate
significantly further, those countries with sufficient fiscal
space stand ready to coordinate and implement discretionary
fiscal actions to support domestic demand, as appropriate. In
many countries, higher investment in education, innovation and
infrastructure can support the creation of jobs now while
raising productivity and future growth prospects. Recognizing
the need to pursue growth-oriented policies that support demand
and recovery, the United States will calibrate the pace
of its fiscal consolidation by ensuring that its public finances
are placed on a sustainable long-run path so that a sharp fiscal
contraction in 2013 is avoided.  13.  Monetary policy  will maintain  price stability  over the
medium term while continuing to support the economic recovery.
We will strengthen confidence in our banks, maintaining momentum
on the financial sector reforms needed to safeguard our
financial systems over the medium term while taking appropriate
actions to protect credit channels and the integrity of the
global payment and settlement systems. Healthy banks, with an
ability to lend, are critical to the global recovery.  14. G20 members will remain vigilant of the evolution of  oil
prices  and will stand ready to carry out additional actions as
needed, including the commitment by producing countries to
continue to ensure an appropriate level of supply consistent
with demand. We welcome Saudi Arabia’s readiness to mobilize, as
necessary, existing spare capacity to ensure adequate supply. We
will also remain vigilant of other commodity prices.  15. A number of  emerging markets  are now also experiencing a
slowdown in growth. In response, these countries are
appropriately directing monetary and fiscal policies to support
growth while ensuring stability and, in some cases, introducing
new measures to boost their economies, in particular through
strengthening domestic demand in a context of weaker external
demand.  16. We welcome progress by countries with large current account
surpluses to increase domestic demand and actions by countries
with large current account deficits to increase national savings.
Emerging surplus economies will carry out further actions to
increase domestic consumption, including by removing price and
tax distortions and strengthening social safety nets, while
advanced surplus economies or those with relatively weak private
demand will promote domestic demand, notably through the
liberalization of service sectors and the promotion of
investment, including through the removal of inefficiencies.
Higher national savings in countries with current account
deficits will contribute to a lasting reduction in global
imbalances. We recognize the special circumstances of large
commodity exporters with regard to current account surpluses. We
reaffirm our commitment to move more rapidly toward market-
determined exchange rate systems and exchange rate flexibility
to reflect underlying fundamentals, avoid persistent exchange
rate misalignments, and refrain from competitive devaluation of
currencies. We also welcome the commitment by China to allow
market forces to play a larger role in determining movements in
the Remnimbi (RMB), continue to reform its exchange rate regime,
and to increase the transparency of its exchange rate policy.  17. All G20 members have put forward structural reform
commitments to strengthen and sustain global demand, foster job
creation, contribute to global rebalancing and increase growth
potential. These include product market reforms to increase
competition, measures to stabilize the housing sector, labor
market reforms to boost competitiveness and employment, as well
as steps to strengthen social safety nets in a way that is
fiscally responsible, advance tax reform to raise productivity,
increase investment in infrastructure, and promote inclusive
green growth and sustainable development as appropriate to
country circumstances. We ask Finance Ministers and
Central Bank Governors to consider ways in which the G20 can
foster investment in infrastructure and ensure the availability
of sufficient funding for infrastructure projects, including
Multilateral Development Banks’ (MDBs) financing and technical
support.  18. In all policy areas, we commit to minimize the negative
spillovers on other countries of policies implemented for
domestic purposes. We reaffirm our shared interest in a strong
and stable international financial system. While capital flows
can be beneficial to recipient economies, we reiterate that
excess volatility of financial flows and disorderly movements in
exchange rates have adverse implications for economic and
financial stability.  19. Recognizing the importance of transparency and
accountability in reinforcing credibility and confidence, we
have agreed on the Los Cabos Accountability Assessment Framework
that accompanies the Growth and Jobs Action Plan. This Framework
establishes the procedures we will follow to report on progress
in implementing our policy commitments. We welcome the first
Accountability Report under this new framework. We task our
Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors to present the
second Accountability Report for the Leaders’ Summit in St.
Petersburg in 2013.  Employment and Social Protection  20. Quality employment is at the heart of our macroeconomic
policies. Jobs with labor rights, social security coverage and
decent income contribute to more stable growth, enhance social
inclusion and reduce poverty. We therefore endorse the
recommendations of our Labor and Employment Ministers to
urgently combat unemployment through appropriate labor market
measures and fostering the creation of decent work and quality
jobs, particularly for youth and other vulnerable groups, who
have been severely hit by the economic crisis. We reaffirm our
commitment to youth to facilitate their access to quality jobs,
which will boost their life prospects. We welcome the work
of the G20 Task Force on Employment and extend its mandate for
an additional year in the terms proposed by our Ministers.
Consistent with the Los Cabos Growth and Jobs Action Plan, we
consider that structural reforms, in full respect of the
fundamental principles and rights at work, can play an important
role in lifting economic growth to generate labor market
opportunities, mobility and jobs. We also commit to intensify
our efforts to strengthen cooperation in education,
skills development and training policies, including internship
and on-the-job training, which support a successful school-to-
work transition.  21. Creating jobs and reducing unemployment, particularly among
our youth and those most affected by the crisis, is central to
all our countries. We welcome the report by the International
Labour Organization (ILO), Organisation for Economic Cooperation
and Development (OECD),  International Monetary Fund  (IMF) and
 World Bank  on boosting jobs and living standards in G20
countries. We will continue to focus on measures to accelerate
the pace of the recovery in jobs and the reduction in
unemployment.  22. We recognize the importance of establishing nationally
determined social protection floors. We will continue to foster
inter-agency and international policy coherence, coordination,
cooperation and knowledge sharing to assist low-income countries
in capacity building for implementing nationally determined
social protection floors. We ask international organizations to
identify policy options with low-income countries on how to
develop effective sustainable protection floors.  23. We commit to take concrete actions to overcome the barriers
hindering women’s full economic and social participation and to
expand economic opportunities for women in G20 economies. We
also express our firm commitment to advance gender equality in
all areas, including skills training, wages and salaries,
treatment in the workplace, and responsibilities in care-giving.  24. We ask our Labor Ministers to review progress made on this
agenda and we welcome consultations with social partners. In
this regard, we appreciate the contribution of the Business-20
(B20) and Labor-20 (L20) to the process of the G20 under the
Mexican Presidency.  25. We recognize the role of travel and tourism as a vehicle for
job creation, economic growth and development, and, while
recognizing the sovereign right of States to control the entry
of foreign nationals, we will work towards developing travel
facilitation initiatives in support of job creation, quality
work, poverty reduction and global growth.  Trade  26. We are firmly committed to open trade and investment,
expanding markets and resisting protectionism in all its forms,
which are necessary conditions for sustained global economic
recovery, jobs and development. We underline the importance of
an open, predictable, rules based, transparent multilateral
trading system and are committed to ensure the centrality of the
 World Trade Organization  (WTO).  27. Recognizing the importance of investment for boosting
economic growth, we commit to maintaining a supportive business
environment for investors.  28. We are deeply concerned about rising instances of
protectionism around the world. Following up our commitment made
in Cannes, we reaffirm our standstill commitment until the end
of 2014 with regard to measures affecting trade and investment,
and our pledge to roll back any new protectionist measure that
may have arisen, including new export restrictions and WTO
inconsistent measures to stimulate exports. We also undertake to
notify in a timely manner trade and investment restrictive
measures. We uphold the inventory and monitoring work of the WTO,
OECD and  United Nations  Conference on Trade and Development
(UNCTAD) on trade and investment measures and encourage them to
reinforce and deepen the work in these areas, consistent with
their respective mandates.  29. We value the discussion held by our Trade Ministers in
Puerto Vallarta on the relevance of regional and global value
chains to world trade, recognizing their role in fostering
economic growth, employment and development and emphasizing the
need to enhance the participation of developing countries in
such value chains. We encourage a deepening of these discussions
in the WTO, UNCTAD and OECD within their respective mandates,
and we call on them to accelerate their work on analyzing the
functioning of global value chains and their relationship
with trade and investment flows, development and jobs, as well
as on how to measure trade flows, to better understand how our
actions affect our countries and others, and to report on
progress under Russia’s Presidency.  30. In line with the Cannes Communiqué, we stand by the Doha
Development Agenda mandate and reaffirm our commitment to pursue
fresh, credible approaches to furthering trade negotiations
across the board. We will continue to work towards concluding
the Doha Round negotiations, including outcomes in specific
areas where progress is possible, such as trade facilitation,
and other issues of concern for least developed countries. We
urge progress in streamlining WTO accession procedures for the
world’s poorest countries.  31. We support strengthening the WTO through improving the way
it conducts its regular business, and its dispute settlement
system. We also direct our representatives to further
discussions on challenges and opportunities for the multilateral
trading system in a globalized economy.  Strengthening the international financial architecture  32. We recognize the importance of effective global and regional
safety nets. We welcome the firm commitments to increase the
resources available to the IMF. This is the result of a broad
international cooperative effort that includes a significant
number of countries. The commitments exceed $450 billion and are
in addition to the quota increase under the 2010 Reform. These
resources will be available for the whole membership of the IMF,
and not earmarked for any particular region. These resources,
which qualify as reserve assets, would be channeled through
bilateral loans and investments such as note purchase agreements
to the IMF’s General Resources Account under the modalities
which have been approved by the IMF Executive Board.
This effort shows the G20 and the international community’s
commitment to take the steps needed to safeguard global
financial stability and enhance the IMF’s role in crisis
prevention and resolution.  33. We reaffirm our commitment to implement in full the 2010
Quota and Governance Reform by the agreed date of the 2012
IMF/World Bank Annual Meetings. These reforms are crucial to
enhancing the IMF’s legitimacy, relevance and effectiveness, and
will support efforts to further strengthen Fund surveillance and
to ensure that the IMF is adequately resourced to play its
systemic role. As part of these reforms, we are committed to
completing the comprehensive review of the quota formula, to
address deficiencies and weaknesses in the current quota
formula, by January 2013 and to complete the next general review
of quotas by January 2014. We agree that the formula should be
simple and transparent, consistent with the multiple roles of
quotas, result in calculated shares that are broadly acceptable
to the membership, and be feasible to implement based on timely,
high quality and widely available data. We reaffirm that the
distribution of quotas based on the formula should better
reflect the relative weights of IMF members in the world economy,
which have changed substantially in view of strong GDP growth
in dynamic emerging markets and developing countries. We
reaffirm the importance of continuing to protect the voice and
representation of the poorest members of the IMF. We ask our
Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors to review progress
on this issue when they meet in November.  34. We agreed that the current surveillance framework should be
significantly enhanced, including through a better integration
of bilateral and multilateral surveillance with a focus on
global, domestic and financial stability, including spillovers
from countries’ policies. We welcome the work of the IMF to
advance considerations for a proposed integrated surveillance
decision and commit to support the decision process. We
underscore the importance of rigorous surveillance on exchange
rate policies and support a more ample coverage of surveillance
activities, where relevant, including global liquidity, capital
flows, capital account measures, reserve and fiscal, monetary
and financial sector policies that could have an impact on
external stability. We welcome the IMF’s ongoing work to produce
an external sector report, which would strengthen multilateral
analysis and enhance the transparency of surveillance. We also
recognize that political ownership and traction is critical to
effective surveillance, and that the International Monetary and
Financial Committee (IMFC) has a role in facilitating the active
involvement of all IMF members. We look forward to substantial
progress by the next IMF/World Bank Annual Meetings.  35. We welcome the interim progress report and look forward to
the joint annual progress report to support the development of
local currency bond markets to be prepared by the World Bank,
Regional Development Banks, IMF, OECD and the Bank of
International Settlements (BIS). The full report will be
presented at the November meeting of G20 Finance Ministers and
Central Bank Governors. This issue is of great importance to
emerging markets and developing countries, recognizing that the
liquidity, efficiency and operation of these markets are being
challenged by the current global financial situation.  Reforming the financial sector and fostering financial inclusion  36. We welcome the progress report by the Financial Stability
Board (FSB) on taking forward the G20 commitments for
strengthening financial stability and the FSB’s enhanced
monitoring of implementation at the national level. We are
committed to the timely, full and consistent implementation of
agreed policies in order to support a stable and integrated
global financial system and to prevent future crises.  37. We welcome the publication of the traffic lights scoreboard
to track progress in the implementation of all our financial
reform recommendations and pledge to take all necessary actions
to make progress in the areas where difficulties in policy
development or implementation have been identified.  38. In particular, we recognize the substantial progress to date
in the priority reform areas identified by the FSB’s
Coordination Framework for Implementation Monitoring (CFIM): the
Basel capital and liquidity framework; the framework for global
systemically important financial institutions (GSIFIs),
resolution regimes, over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives reforms,
shadow banking, and compensation practices. We commit to
complete work in these important areas to achieve full
implementation of reforms.  39. We reaffirm our commitment that all standardized OTC
derivative contracts should be traded on
exchanges or electronic trading platforms, where appropriate,
and cleared through central counterparties by end-2012, OTC
derivative contracts should be reported to trade repositories
and non-centrally cleared contracts should be subject to higher
 capital requirements . We welcome the FSB progress report on
implementation. Now that substantial progress has been achieved
in the four safeguards for a resilient and efficient global
framework for central clearing, jurisdictions should rapidly
finalize their decision-making and put in place the needed
legislation and regulations to meet the G20 commitment for
central clearing. We acknowledge the progress made to develop
the key principles to promote internationally consistent minimum
standards for the margining of non-centrally cleared derivatives
and encourage international standard setters to finalize the
proposed global margin standards by the end of this year, to
match the implementation deadline for other OTC derivatives
reforms and for the Basel capital framework.  40. We welcome progress in implementing Basel II, 2.5 and III
and urge jurisdictions to fully implement the standards
according to the agreed timelines. We welcome the Basel
Committee’s consultative proposals for a fundamental review of
the market risk framework. We welcome the FSB’s progress report
on the implementation of the principles and standards for sound
compensation practices, reaffirm our commitment to ensure that
these are followed and ask the FSB to continue its ongoing
monitoring.  41. We reiterate our commitment to make our national resolution
regimes consistent with the FSB Key Attributes of Effective
Resolution Regimes so that no bank or other financial
institution is “too big to fail”. To this end, we also support
the ongoing elaboration of recovery and resolution plans
and institution-specific cross-border cooperation agreements for
all G-SIFIs. We reiterate our commitment to strengthen the
intensity and effectiveness of the supervision of SIFIs and ask
the FSB to report on further progress in this area to the
November 2012 G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors’
meeting.  42. We welcome progress on developing a set of principles as a
common framework for the identification of, and policy measures
relating to, domestic systemically important banks (D-SIBs)
and ask our Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors to
review recommendations in these areas at their meeting in
November. We support continuing work for the strengthening of
the oversight and regulation of the shadow banking system, and
look forward to our Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors
reviewing recommendations in these areas at their meeting in
November. We ask the FSB in consultation with the International
Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS) to complete their
work on identification and policy measures for global
systemically important insurers by April 2013. Towards reducing
systemic risk, we look forward to the preparation by the FSB in
consultation with International Organization of Securities
Commissions (IOSCO) of methodologies to identify other
systemically important non-bank financial entities by end-2012
and call on Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems
(CPSS) and IOSCO to continue their work on systemically
important market infrastructures. We also ask the IAIS to
continue its work to develop a common framework for the
supervision of internationally active insurance groups by end-
2013.  43. We call for accelerated progress by national authorities and
standard setting bodies in ending the mechanistic reliance on
credit ratings and encourage steps that would enhance
transparency of and competition among credit rating agencies. We
support continuing work to achieve convergence to a single set
of high-quality accounting standards. We welcome IOSCO’s report
on the functioning of the credit default swap markets and ask
IOSCO to report on next steps by the November 2012 Finance
Ministers and Central Bank Governors’ meeting.  44. We endorse the FSB recommendations regarding the framework
for development of a global legal entity identifier (LEI) system
for parties to financial transactions, with a global governance
framework representing the public interest. The LEI system will
be launched by March 2013 and we ask the FSB to report on
implementation progress by the November 2012 Finance Ministers
and Central Bank Governors’ meeting. We encourage global
adoption of the LEI to support authorities and market
participants in identifying and managing financial risks.  45. We welcome the FSB study, prepared in coordination with the
IMF and the World Bank, to identify potential unintended
consequences of the agreed financial regulatory reforms for
Emerging Markets and Developing Economies (EMDEs). We encourage
continued monitoring analysis and reporting by the FSB and
dialogue among the FSB, standard-setters, international
financial institutions and national authorities of EMDEs, to
address material unintended consequences as appropriate without
prejudice to our commitment to implement the agreed
reforms.  46. We endorse the recommendations and the revised FSB Charter
for placing the FSB on an enduring organizational footing, with
legal personality, strengthened governance, greater financial
autonomy and enhanced capacity to coordinate the development and
implementation of financial regulatory policies, while
maintaining strong links with the BIS. We call for a full
implementation of the recommendations by our next meeting and
substantial progress by the November 2012 Finance Ministers and
Central Bank Governors’ meeting. We call on the FSB to continue
to keep under review the structure of its representation.  47. We welcome the ongoing work by the FSB on adherence to
supervisory and regulatory information exchange and cooperation
standards and look forward to a further public statement
on progress under the initiative ahead of the Finance Ministers
and Central Bank Governors’ meeting in November 2012.  48. In the tax area, we reiterate our commitment to strengthen
transparency and comprehensive exchange of information. We
commend the progress made as reported by the Global Forum and
urge all countries to fully comply with the standard and
implement the recommendations identified in the course of the
reviews, in particular the 13 jurisdictions whose framework does
not allow them to qualify to phase 2 at this stage. We expect
the Global Forum to quickly start examining the effectiveness of
information exchange practices and to report to us and our
finance ministers. We welcome the OECD report on the practice of
automatic information exchange, where we will continue to lead
by example in implementing this practice. We call on countries
to join this growing practice as appropriate and strongly
encourage all jurisdictions to sign the Multilateral Convention
on Mutual Administrative Assistance. We also welcome the efforts
to enhance interagency cooperation to tackle illicit flows
including the outcomes of the Rome meeting of the Oslo Dialogue.
We reiterate the need to prevent base erosion and profit
shifting and we will follow with attention the ongoing work of
the OECD in this area.  49. We support the renewal of the Financial Action Task Force
(FATF) mandate, thereby sustaining global efforts to combat
 money laundering  and the financing of terrorism and
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. G20 members also
welcome the adoption of the revised FATF standards and look
forward to their implementation. We welcome the progress made by
FATF in identifying and monitoring high-risk jurisdictions with
strategic Anti-Money Laundering/Counter-Terrorist Financing
(AML/CFT) deficiencies, using AML/CFT tools in the fight against
corruption, improving transparency of corporate vehicles and
increasing cooperation against tax crimes, addressing the risks
posed by tax havens, as well as in increasing the reach and the
effectiveness of AML/CFT measures by also considering financial
inclusion efforts. We look forward to the completion in 2013 of
the update of the FATF assessment process for the next round of
mutual evaluations.  50. We welcome the progress made by the Global Partnership for
Financial Inclusion (GPFI) on implementing the five
recommendations set out in its 2011 report and call on the GPFI
to continue working towards their full implementation. We
endorse the G20 Basic Set of financial inclusion indicators
developed by the GPFI. Recognizing the key role that SMEs play
in economic development, and poverty reduction, we welcome the
launch of the SME Finance Compact that will support developing
innovative models and approaches to address the specific access
to finance challenges and constraints faced by developing
countries with regards to SME finance. We welcome the
forthcoming GPFI conference on standard setting bodies and
financial inclusion as a means of helping to create an enabling
regulatory environment, and we call on the GPFI to report
progress to our Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors in
November. Finally, we support the ongoing effort to create a
fourth GPFI subgroup that will focus on consumer protection and
financial literacy issues.  51. We acknowledge the efforts of those G20 and non-G20
countries committed to national coordination platforms and
strategies for financial inclusion under the “G20 Financial
Inclusion Peer Learning Program” and encourage similar efforts
to advance effective implementation of the G20 Principles for
Innovative Financial Inclusion such as the commitments to
concrete actions to promote financial inclusion made by
developing and emerging countries under the Maya Declaration,
recognizing the ongoing efforts and the support by the World
Bank Group and the Alliance for Financial Inclusion, and other
stakeholders including the United Nations (UN), and bilateral
donors to foster financial inclusion.  52. On financial education, we endorse the OECD/International
Network on Financial Education (INFE) High Level Principles on
National Strategies for Financial Education, and call on the
OECD/INFE and the World Bank in cooperation with the GPFI to
deliver further tools to promote financial education, with a
progress report to the next Summit. For advancing the financial
consumer protection agenda, we take note of the discussion on
the Statutes of the International Financial Consumer Protection
Network (FinCoNet) and on the issues of formal structure and
financial support to ensure the exchange of best practices. We
also endorse the Action Plan presented by the G20/OECD Task
Force on Financial Consumer Protection to develop effective
approaches to support the implementation of the High Level
Principles on Financial Consumer Protection, and look forward to
an update report by the Leaders’ Summit in St. Petersburg in
2013.  53. We recognize the need for women and youth to gain access to
financial services and financial education, ask the GPFI, the
OECD/INFE, and the World Bank to identify barriers they may face
and call for a progress report to be delivered by the next
Summit.  54. We welcome the launch of the Mexico Financial Inclusion
Challenge: Innovative Solutions for Unlocking Access, a call for
innovations that address barriers to financial inclusion through
the creation of valuable, affordable, secure, and comprehensive
financial services.  Enhancing food security and addressing commodity price
volatility  55. The Action Plan on Food Price Volatility and Agriculture
adopted by the Ministers of Agriculture in 2011 underlined that
to feed a world population expected to exceed 9.3 billion by
2050, agricultural production will have to increase between 50
and 70 percent, and by almost 100 percent in developing
countries. We recognize that increasing production and
productivity on a sustainable basis while considering the
diversity of agricultural conditions is one of the most
important challenges that the world faces today. The crisis in
the Sahel and the Horn of Africa also underscores that
strengthening emergency and long-term responses to food
insecurity remains a pressing challenge. We also note that
chronic malnutrition is an enormous drain on a country’s human
resources, and we therefore support the Scaling Up Nutrition
movement and encourage wider involvement of G20 members.  56. We welcome the considerable progress made in implementing
the Action Plan and the  food security  pillar of the Seoul Multi-
Year Action Plan on Development. We support the G20 Agriculture
Vice-Ministers’ Report annexed to this Declaration, on the
progress made on previous commitments and key recommendations on
sustainably increasing agricultural productivity, containing
inputs from several international organizations coordinated by
the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the OECD, in
addition to other recommendations from B20 and civil society.  57. To fight hunger, we commit to continue our efforts on our
initiatives, including the Tropical Agriculture Platform, the
Platform for Agricultural Risk Management, the GEO Global
Agriculture Monitoring, research initiatives for wheat, rice and
corn, the Rapid Response Forum, regional emergency food reserves,
the Global Agriculture and Food Security Program and support for
the Principles of Responsible Agriculture Investment.
Recognizing the important contribution of greater transparency
to reducing food price volatility, we welcome the progress made
in the implementation of the Agricultural Market Information
System (AMIS). We recognize that a more stable, predictable,
distortion-free, open and transparent trading system, including
as regards agriculture, has a critical role to play to promote
food security.  58. We reaffirm our commitment to remove export restrictions and
extraordinary taxes on food purchased for non-commercial
humanitarian purposes by the  World Food Programme  (WFP).
We encourage the implementation of the Voluntary Guidelines on
the Responsible Governance of Tenure of Land, Fisheries and
Forests in the Context of National Food Security.  59. We strongly welcome the launch of the “AgResults” Initiative,
aimed at improving food security for the poor and vulnerable by
encouraging private sector innovation of new agricultural
products and systems constrained by market failures in
agriculture. We look forward to the launch of the pilot projects
focused on innovations in nutrient-fortified crops, post-harvest
waste-reducing storage solutions and crop quality technologies
in Sub-Saharan Africa. We commend those who have already
committed or signaled their intention to commit funding to this
initiative and encourage broader participation.  60. We recognize the need to adapt agriculture to  climate change 
and we recognize the importance of improving the efficiency of
water and soil use in a sustainable manner. To this end, we
support the development of and a greater use of available
technologies, well-known practices and techniques such as soil
fertility enhancement, minimum tillage and agroforestry, and
call upon international organizations to provide a report on
science-based options to improve the efficiency of water use in
agriculture including in ways particularly suitable for small
farms.  61. We recognize the importance to the global economic recovery
of maintaining stability in international commodity markets. We
stress the importance of well-functioning and transparent
physical and financial commodities’ markets and reduced
excessive price volatility to achieve food security and strong
growth that is both sustainable and inclusive. We recognize that
excessive commodity price volatility has significant
implications for all countries, increasing uncertainty for
actors in the economy and potentially hampering stability of the
budgets, and predictability of economic planning. We recognize
that mitigating the negative effects of commodity price
volatility on the most vulnerable is an important component of
reducing poverty and boosting economic growth. We therefore
endorse the conclusions of the G20 report on the
macroeconomic impacts of excessive commodity price volatility on
growth and its identification of policy options that countries
could consider, taking account of national circumstances to
mitigate any such effect. We also acknowledge and appreciate the
participation and valuable inputs of the IMF, World Bank and
UNCTAD. We ask our Finance Ministers to report in 2013 on
progress on the G20’s contribution to facilitate better
functioning of these physical markets, taking note of
possible areas of further work outlined in the report. We
reaffirm our commitment to enhance transparency and avoid abuse
in financial commodity markets, including OTC, with effective
intervention powers for market regulators and authorities and an
appropriate regulation and supervisory framework. In this regard
we look forward to IOSCO’s report on the implementation
of its recommendations on commodity derivatives markets by
November 2012.  62. We recognize that excessive price volatility in energy
commodities is also an important source of economic instability.
We remain committed to well-functioning and transparent energy
markets. We will continue to work to improve the timeliness,
completeness and reliability of JODI-Oil and look forward to a
progress report next year. We will work on the JODI-Gas database
on the same principles. We expect the International Energy Forum
(IEF) report on improving the reliability of the JODI-Oil
database and the report on transparency in international gas and
coal markets submitted by the  International Energy Agency  (IEA),
IEF, and Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries
(OPEC) to be discussed by our Finance Ministers in November. We
also look forward to IOSCO’s recommendations to improve the
functioning and oversight of Price Reporting Agencies in
November 2012, which will be produced in collaboration with
other mandated organizations (IEF, IEA and OPEC), and task
Finance Ministers to take concrete measures in this area as
necessary.  Meeting the Challenges of Development  63. Eradicating poverty and achieving strong, inclusive,
sustainable and balanced growth remain core objectives of the
G20 development agenda. We reaffirm our commitment to work with
developing countries, particularly low income countries, and to
support them in implementing the nationally driven policies and
priorities which are needed to fulfill internationally agreed
development goals, particularly the Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs) and beyond.  64. We welcome the initiative of the Development Working Group
to build upon the work of previous G20 presidencies, and its
focus on three priorities during the Mexican Presidency - food
security, infrastructure and inclusive green growth. We commend
the progress achieved against our commitments in the Seoul
Multi-Year Action Plan, and support the 2012 Development Working
Group progress report annexed to this Declaration. We invite the
Development Working Group to explore putting in place a process
for ensuring assessment and accountability for G20 development
actions by the next Summit.  65. Investment in infrastructure is critical for sustained
economic growth, poverty reduction, and job creation. We
therefore welcome the strong progress made under the Multi-Year
Action Plan, including in implementing the recommendations of
the Multilateral Development Banks’ (MDBs) Action Plan and the
High Level Panel on Infrastructure.  66. While recognizing that public financing of infrastructure
development projects in developing countries remains essential,
we consider it should be complemented by private sector
investment. We encourage MDBs to continue progress under the
Action Plan, and welcome the report on addressing Misperception
of Risk and Return in Low Income Countries. This contains
important messages about properly perceiving the risks posed, as
well as the opportunities offered, by long-term infrastructure
investment in low income countries. Recognizing the challenge
that rapid urbanization poses and the need to make cities more
sustainable, we welcome the report on Best Practices for Urban
Mass Transport Infrastructure Projects in Medium and Large
Cities in Developing Countries, and support the follow-up
actions as set out in the Development Working Group report.  67. We reaffirm our commitments to the global partnership for
development, as set out in the MDGs, and welcome efforts to
contribute to this end, including the Global Partnership for
Effective Development Cooperation to be launched with voluntary
participation under the auspices of the broad consensus achieved
at the 4th High Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness held in Busan,
Korea.  68. We recognize the value of Disaster Risk Management (DRM)
tools and strategies to better prevent disasters, protect
populations and assets, and financially manage their economic
impacts. We appreciate World Bank and OECD combined efforts,
with the UN’s support, to provide inputs and broaden
participation in the discussion on DRM. We welcome the World
Bank’s and Mexico’s joint publication on country experiences in
this area with the support of G20 members, and look forward to
the OECD voluntary framework to facilitate implementation of DRM
strategies, to be completed by November.  Promoting longer-term prosperity through inclusive green growth  69. The long-term development and prosperity of current and
future generations requires us to look beyond the immediate
economic crisis. We acknowledge the importance of finding ways
in which economic growth, environmental protection and social
inclusion can complement and reinforce each other. Inclusive
green growth in the context of sustainable development and
poverty eradication can help achieve our development and
economic goals, while protecting our environment, and improving
social well-being on which our future depends. Inclusive green
growth should not be used to introduce protectionist measures.  70. We commit to continue to help developing countries sustain
and strengthen their development through appropriate measures,
including those that encourage inclusive green growth. We will
reaffirm our commitment to sustainable development at the 2012
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20).
We commit to maintaining a focus on inclusive green growth
as part of our G20 agenda and in the light of agreements reached
at Rio+20 and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change (UNFCCC).  71. Climate change will continue to have a significant impact on
the world economy, and costs will be higher to the extent we
delay additional action. We reiterate our commitment to fight
climate change and welcome the outcome of the 17th Conference of
the Parties to the UN climate change conferences. We are
committed to the full implementation of the outcomes of Cancun
and Durban and will work with Qatar as the incoming Presidency
towards achieving a successful and balanced outcome at COP-18.
We emphasize the need to structurally transform economies
towards a climate-friendly path over the medium term. We welcome
the creation of the G20 study group on climate finance, in order
to consider ways to effectively mobilize resources taking into
account the objectives, provisions and principles of the UNFCCC
in line with the Cancun Agreement and ask to provide a progress
report to Finance Ministers in November. We support the
operationalization of the Green Climate Fund.  72. The Development Working Group discussed a broad set of
practical, voluntary measures and actions that have the
potential to help countries define their paths towards
sustainable development based on their own circumstances and
priorities. We believe that developing countries should have
access to institutions and mechanisms that can facilitate
knowledge sharing, resource mobilization and building technical
and institutional capacity to design and implement inclusive
green growth strategies and policies. We welcome international
efforts in launching the Green Growth Knowledge Platform and
will continue exploring options to provide appropriate support
to interested developing countries. We welcome the delivery of a
nonprescriptive, voluntary toolkit of policy options for
inclusive green growth and encourage efforts to promote its
implementation. We encourage further exploration of effective
mechanisms to mobilize public and private funds for inclusive
green growth investment in developing countries, including
through the public-private Dialogue Platform on Inclusive Green
Investments. We welcome the B20’s Green Growth Action Alliance.  73. We highlight that green growth and sustainable development
have strong potential to stimulate long term prosperity and well
being. We welcome the report prepared by the OECD, the World
Bank and the UN on incorporating green growth and sustainable
development policies into structural reform agendas, tailored to
specific country conditions and level of development. We
also acknowledge the G20 efforts to voluntarily self-report on
current actions taken to integrate green growth and sustainable
development into structural reform agendas. We will self-report
again in 2013, on a voluntary basis, and ask appropriate
officials to report back on countries’ efforts and progress on
incorporating green growth policies in structural reform agendas
and in relevant national plans to promote sustainable
development.  74. We welcome the progress report on fossil fuel subsidies, and
we reaffirm our commitment to rationalize and phase out
inefficient fossil fuel subsides that encourage wasteful
consumption over the medium term while providing targeted
support for the poorest. We ask Finance Ministers to report back
by the next Summit on progress made, and acknowledging the
relevance of accountability and transparency, to explore options
for a voluntary peer review process for G20 members by their
next meeting. We also welcome a dialogue on fossil fuel
subsidies with other groups already engaged in this work.  75. In Cannes we committed to promote low-carbon development
strategies in order to optimize the potential for green growth
and ensure sustainable development in our countries and beyond.
We therefore welcome the report on clean energy and energy
efficiency technologies and acknowledge the G20 countries’
efforts to foster investment in these technologies through the
sharing of national experiences regarding challenges for
technology deployment.  76. We welcome the establishment of a Global Marine Environment
Protection Best Practices Sharing Mechanism website, and look
forward to its launch in accordance with the Cannes mandate.  Intensifying the fight against corruption  77. Corruption impedes economic growth, threatens the integrity
of markets, undermines fair competition, distorts resource
allocation, destroys public trust and undermines the rule of law.
We call on all relevant stakeholders to play an active role in
fighting corruption.  78. Closing the implementation and enforcement gap remains an
important priority, and we continue to make significant progress
towards the full implementation of the Seoul G20 Anti-Corruption
Action Plan, and the commitments made in the Cannes Monitoring
Report. We reiterate our commitment to the ratification and full
implementation of the United Nations Convention against
Corruption (UNCAC), and to more active engagement with the OECD
working group on bribery on a voluntary basis. We welcome
continuing engagement from the B20 in the fight against
corruption and, in accordance with the Terms of Reference of the
review mechanism, will involve the private sector and civil
society in the UNCAC review process on a voluntary basis. We
endorse today the G20 Anti-Corruption Working Group principles
for denial of entry to our countries of corrupt officials, and
those who corrupt them, and will continue to develop frameworks
for cooperation. We also endorse the Working Group’s principles
for financial and asset disclosure systems for relevant
officials to prevent, identify and appropriately manage
conflicts of interest.  79. We commit to enforcing anti-corruption legislation, and we
will pursue those who receive and solicit bribes as well as
those who pay them in line with our countries’ legislation. To
help facilitate international cooperation among G20 and non-G20
governments in their investigation and prosecution of corruption,
we will publish a guide on Mutual Legal Assistance from G20
countries, as well as information on tracing assets in G20
jurisdictions. We renew our commitment to deny safe haven to the
proceeds of corruption and to the recovery and restitution of
stolen assets.  80. We extend the mandate of the Anti-Corruption Working Group
for two years to the end of 2014 and request the Working Group
to prepare a comprehensive action plan, as well as a second
Working Group Monitoring Report, both to be presented for
consideration and adoption by Sherpas by the end of 2012.  Other paragraphs  81. In light of the interconnectedness of the world economy, the
G20 has led to a new paradigm of multilateral co-operation that
is necessary in order to tackle current and future challenges
effectively. The informal and flexible character of the G20
enables it to facilitate international economic and financial
cooperation, and address the challenges confronting the global
economy. It is important that we continue to further improve the
transparency and effectiveness of the G20, and ensure that it is
able to respond to pressing needs. As a contribution to this, in
line with the commitment made in Cannes, Sherpas have developed
a set of evolving G20 working practices.  82. An informal meeting of G20 Ministers of Foreign Affairs was
held in Los Cabos in February, which explored the ways in which
G20 member countries could contribute more effectively to
address key challenges in global governance.  83. Recognizing the far-reaching impact of G20 decisions, we
welcome the extensive outreach efforts undertaken by the Mexican
Presidency, including the meetings of Business-20, Labor-20,
Youth-20, and Think-20. We will continue developing efforts with
non-members, regional and international organizations, including
the UN and other actors. In line with the Cannes mandate,
in order to ensure our outreach remains consistent and effective,
we welcome a set of principles in this area, developed by
Sherpas.  84. We thank international organizations, including the UN, IMF,
World Bank, WTO, FSB, ILO, FAO, and OECD, as well as civil
society, for their input into the G20 process. Their reports and
recommendations have provided valuable inputs to G20 discussions,
in areas ranging from sustainable development to financial
regulation.  Conclusion  85. We look forward to the rest of the work that will take place
during Mexico’s Presidency until November 30. On 1 December,
2012, Russia will start chairing the G20. We will convene in St.
Petersburg, under the Chairmanship of Russia. We thank Mexico
for hosting a successful Los Cabos Summit.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey  at   canstey@bloomberg.net  