-- Gasoline Fluctuates as Market Awaits Fed Decision on Stimulus
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-06-20T14:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/gasoline-fluctuates-as-market-awaits-fed-decision-on-stimulus.html
Gasoline fluctuated as investors
waited to see if the U.S.  Federal Reserve  will announce more
economic stimulus today.  Futures swung between gains and losses before the Federal
Reserve’s scheduled 12:30 p.m. announcement in Washington. The
Energy Department is scheduled to report last week’s oil
inventories at 10:30 a.m. The industry-funded  American Petroleum
Institute  reported yesterday that U.S. gasoline stockpiles rose
1.07 million barrels.  “People are waiting to see what the Fed announces and what
the DOE report says,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford , Connecticut.  Gasoline for July delivery slipped 0.3 cent to $2.6385 a
gallon at 10:04 a.m. on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Prices
swung between $2.6238 and $2.6539.  The Federal Reserve will probably decide today to expand
Operation Twist beyond $400 billion to spur growth and buy
protection against a deeper crisis in  Europe , according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Fifty-eight percent of respondents in a June 18 poll said
the Fed will prolong the program, which seeks to lower borrowing
costs by extending the average maturity of the securities in the
central bank’s portfolio. The current program ends this month.  The Energy Department will probably report that  stockpiles 
of gasoline and distillates each rose 1 million barrels last
week, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Gasoline Demand  Demand for the motor fuel in the week ended June 8 surged
to the highest level since August. Gasoline  supplies  fell 1.72
million barrels last week to 201.8 million, according to
department data.  ‘The hope is if the Fed gives a jolt to the economy, it
will give a jolt to energy demand,’’ said  Phil Flynn , senior
market analyst at Price Futures Group in Chicago.  “What we’re
looking for in inventory side is gasoline demand starting to
come back to life and we saw signs of that last week.”  Heating oil for July delivery rose 0.79 cent, or 0.3
percent, to $2.643 a gallon on the Nymex.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 1
cent to $3.487 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA. It was the
lowest price since Feb. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  