-- George Washington Acts of Congress May Fetch $3 Million
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-06-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/george-washington-acts-of-congress-may-fetch-3-million.html
George Washington ’s copy of a book
recording early acts of the new  U.S. Congress , which features
his handwritten notes on the Constitution, could sell for as
much as $3 million at auction this week.  Washington received the 106-page volume in 1789, his first
year in office as U.S. president. It was a record of the
momentous first session of Congress, March 4 to Sept. 29 that
year.  The book, which is being sold at Christie’s in  New York  on
June 22, includes the ratified Constitution, the draft Bill of
Rights and acts establishing the executive, state and treasury
departments.  “They were busy,” said Chris Coover, Christie’s senior
specialist for books and manuscripts, in a phone interview.
“During that session they passed 90-some acts.”  The title page has  Washington ’s large signature and on
another page is a bookplate bearing his motto, “Exitus acta
probat” (“the end justifies the deed”), and his family coat
of arms.  Washington wrote notes in the margins next to key passages
concerning the president’s responsibilities.  “It shows his continued concerns that he do the right
thing,” Coover said. “He was a very conscientious leader, and
it’s part of his tremendous appeal today.”  The book comes from the estate of H. Richard Dietrich Jr.,
a collector of American painting and furniture, who bought it at
auction for $27,000 in 1964.  In January, Christie’s sold for $782,500 a wine cooler that
the president gave to  Alexander Hamilton . A 1787 letter to his
nephew Bushrod Washington on the ratification of the
Constitution set a record for a Washington document of $3.2
million in 2009.  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 