-- Globalive Says Telus Breaks Canada’s Ownership Rules
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-06-20T23:39:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/globalive-says-telus-breaks-canada-telecom-rules.html
Telus Corp. (T) , Canada’s third-largest
wireless carrier, may have violated the country’s restrictions
on foreign ownership of phone companies, a competitor backed by
 VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  said in a regulatory filing.  About 48 percent of the holders of Telus’s voting shares
reside outside Canada, Globalive Wireless Management Corp. said
today in a Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications
Commission filing that was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Foreigners can hold no more than 33.3 percent of companies
that own telecommunications carriers under Canadian law.  Shawn Hall , a spokesman for Telus, said in an e-mail that the company
is “fully compliant” with the restrictions and that
Globalive’s methodology is faulty.  Canadian phone companies are competing to raise capital and
build speedier networks for wireless customers. Telus Chief
Financial Officer Robert McFarlane said earlier this month that
the government must loosen foreign ownership restrictions for
large phone companies, making it easier to get funding.  “If Globalive has its facts correct, it presents an
interesting view, as well as a dilemma for both Telus and the
Industry Minister, given restrictions surrounding telecom
ownership in  Canada ,” Neeraj Monga, an analyst at Veritas
Investment Research Corp. in Toronto, said in an e-mail.  Review Requested  Globalive, which is backed by Amsterdam-based VimpelCom and
offers wireless services in Canada under the WIND Mobile brand,
has asked regulators to review whether Telus complies with the
ownership rules.  “WIND is bringing this application because Telus’s
complicated and rarely used measures for controlling the level
of foreign ownership of its publicly traded voting shares, along
with its recent proposal to restructure its share capital by
converting its non-voting shares into voting shares, raises
complex and novel issues that have not been dealt with by the
CRTC to date,” Simon Lockie, chief regulatory officer for
Globalive, said in an e-mailed statement.  Globalive, based in Toronto, says it based its estimate of
Telus’s foreign ownership on an analysis of the location of
owners who hold shares through Canadian brokers, dealers and
other financial intermediaries.  Assessing Residency  Telus’s Hall took issue with Globalive’s approach. The
report that supports Globalive’s allegation relies on postal
codes rather than actual residency, and it covers shares that
are “materially different” than those used in Telus’s share
register, he said.  “Telus has been and continues to be fully compliant with
foreign-ownership restrictions, and have our own control
processes in place to ensure we remain compliant,” Hall said in
the e-mail.  Telus, based in  Vancouver , said in March that “approved
and pending” applications to buy its shares threatened to push
foreign ownership beyond the 33.3 percent limit. At the time,
the company told non-Canadian investors that some of their stock
purchases may not be approved.  McFarlane said on June 5 that Canada should allow foreign
investment for all companies in the telecommunications industry.
In March, Industry Minister Christian Paradis said the federal
government would allow companies with less than 10 percent
market share to be fully owned by foreign investors.  Globalive has faced its own criticism over ownership. Telus
asked the CRTC in 2009 to review the company’s ownership
structure. While the commission initially ruled that Globalive
violated the foreign-ownership rules, Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s cabinet reversed the ruling. In April, the  Supreme
Court  dismissed a challenge to the government’s decision.  Denis Carmel, a CRTC spokesman, confirmed that the
commission has received Globalive’s filing. The public typically
has 30 days to respond to the application, after which Globalive
will have 10 days to reply to any submissions, although the
deadlines could be extended, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  