-- GM Gets Its Best Quality Scores; Jaguar Joins Lexus
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-06-20T20:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/gm-gets-its-best-quality-scores-jaguar-joins-lexus.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , boosting the
reliability of Cadillac and Chevrolet models, had its best
performance ever in J.D. Power & Associates’ new-car quality
survey, with three of four brands above the industry average.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus luxury line topped the survey
for the second consecutive year and its namesake brand ranked
eighth. Honda Motor Co. had the highest-rated mainstream brand
at No. 5, one spot ahead of its Acura luxury line. Jaguar leaped
18 spots to a tie for second with  Porsche AG. (PAH3)  BMW, Mercedes-Benz
and Nissan Motor Co.’s Infiniti also placed in the top 10.  GM’s Cadillac luxury line climbed to fourth from ninth on
the  Westlake Village , California-based market research firm’s
Initial Quality Study, which measures consumer complaints in the
first 90 days of ownership. GM’s GMC truck and sport-utility
vehicle brand ranked 12th, while Chevy was 15th, just above the
industry average,  J.D. Power  said today in a statement. GM’s
Buick brand ranked 17th, two levels below the industry average.  “This is GM’s best performance in the 26-year history of
the study,”  David Sargent , J.D. Power vice president for global
vehicle research, said in an interview. “They’ve come a long
way, they’ve focused their attention on four brands and a
smaller product lineup.”  Ford’s Slide  Ford Motor Co. (F)  continued to suffer from complaints about
its touch-screen dashboard controls, as its namesake brand fell
for a second year to 27th and Lincoln remained below-average at
18th. Ford, which ranked fifth in the study two years ago, was
one of only five brands to fall in the study. Twenty-six brands
improved, and one, Lexus, stayed the same, while Fiat and Smart
were not in the rankings last year.  J.D. Power’s study is a bellwether quality survey that
helped established Honda’s and Toyota’s reputations for
reliability in the U.S. The study is considered an indicator of
long-term dependability, which leads to better resale value.
Automakers work hard each year to improve their scores.  Jaguar, owned by  India ’s  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , jumped on the
strength of its XJ model, which was the most improved vehicle in
the survey, Sargent said. The car was new in 2010, when it had
more than 40 problems per 100 cars just on its navigation system
in last year’s survey, said David Pryor, Jaguar North America
vice president.  “There are some misperceptions out there about where our
quality is from the past,” Pryor said in a telephone interview.
“This is one of those really strong proof points out there for
consumers that quality has gotten a lot better at Jaguar.”  GM’s Results  GM’s Chevy Malibu was the top ranked mid-size car, beating
out the Ford Fusion and Honda Accord, which tied for second. The
GMC Sierra and Chevy Silverado were the top two full-size
pickups, while the Cadillac SRX ranked third among mid-sized
premium SUVs.  The Cadillac Escalade, which won the large premium SUV
category, was the third best vehicle in the study, behind the
Lexus LS and the  Porsche 911 , Sargent said.  “We’ve moved well ahead of the other domestic brands,”
Bob Ottolini, GM’s executive director of global quality
strategy, said today in an interview. “We really don’t want
this disclaimer that says you’re better than the domestics. You
really want to be looking at what it takes to be in the top.”  Ram Climbs  GM this year is replacing the Malibu with a redesigned
version of the car. The Detroit-based automaker was helped by
not having many new model introductions, Sargent said.  “GM had a year when they didn’t have a lot of big
launches, where there is more opportunity for things to go
wrong” he said. “GM was swimming with the tide a bit this
year.”  Chrysler Group LLC also rose in the rankings, led by its
Ram truck brand climbing to 14th, two spots above the industry
average. Last year, Chrysler had no above-average brands and its
Dodge line was the market’s worst. This year, Dodge ranked 29th,
tied with Mitsubishi and Volkswagen and leading small-car brands
Mini, Fiat and Daimler’s Smart.  “Chrysler improved more quickly than the average,”
Sargent said. “But they’re coming off a fairly low base, so as
a whole, they’re still below average.” Chrysler is majority
owned by  Fiat SpA. (F)   Chrysler Improvement  Chrysler’s Jeep brand improved one step to rank 23rd on the
strength of the Grand Cherokee, which was in a four-way tie for
third place among mid-size SUVs. Chrysler’s namesake brand fell
to 25th place this year, from 16th last year.  Chrysler has boosted headcount in the division of the
company that works on quality by about 40 percent since May 2009
to more than 1,100 employees,  Ann Smith , a spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail.  “We value customer feedback, including IQS, and use it to
continuously improve our products,” Doug Betts, Chrysler’s
senior vice president of quality, said in a statement.  Ford’s fall can be attributed almost entirely to consumer
complaints about its MyFord Touch dashboard controls, Sargent
said. Its Mustang, Taurus and Expedition SUV, none of which are
equipped with MyFord Touch, all ranked best in their categories.  “If it wasn’t for the MyFord Touch system, Ford would be
average or better,” Sargent said. “But Ford is going to roll
this technology on to more and more vehicles. So as it becomes
more prevalent across the Ford portfolio, there is a danger that
things will get worse before they get better.”  Ford’s Fixes  It could take Ford two to three years to fix the problems
with its touch-screen controls, Sargent said.  Ford sent a software upgrade to 377,000 owners in March
after J.D. Power had completed its survey. Ford said yesterday
the results of that fix would show up in next year’s rankings.  “We remain absolutely committed to continuously improving
our vehicles,” Said Deep, a Ford spokesman, said in a
statement.  Honda’s namesake brand slipped from second to fifth.
Honda’s CR-V was the top-ranked compact SUV, the Japanese
automaker’s only category winner. Last year, Honda topped seven
vehicle categories, including compact car. While the redesigned
Civic, criticized by Consumer Reports magazine, lost the
category crown, it remained among the segment’s top three.  Honda’s CR-Z and Fit factory in Suzuka,  Japan , received
J.D. Power’s highest award for plant quality. Honda’s
Marysville, Ohio, factory, which makes the Accord and Acura TL,
was the second-highest ranked plant in North and South America,
trailing only Toyota’s Lexus RX plant in Cambridge, Ontario.  Honda, Toyota  “Honda, historically, has been one of the best, if not the
best, manufacturer at avoiding launch issues and getting the
vehicle right before they put it out on the street,” Sargent
said. “And they’ve done it again this year.”  Toyota’s namesake brand, after stumbling two years ago
during recalls over unintended acceleration, had its second
consecutive year in the top eight, slipping one spot from last
year even as its score improved 13 percent to 88 problems per
100 vehicles. Toyota’s Corolla won the compact-car segment and
was the top non-premium vehicle in the survey, Sargent said.  Toyota’s Lexus line equaled its market-leading performance
last year with 73 problems per 100 vehicles. The LS was the top-
ranked premium car, the ES 350 was first among entry-premium
cars and the RX topped the mid-size premium SUV category.  Nissan Rises  Nissan (7201) ’s namesake brand rose to 13th from 24th place last
year. The Yokohama, Japan-based company’s Infiniti luxury line
ranked 7th, up one place from last year.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  South Korea ’s largest automaker, fell to
18th place, from 11th last year and scored below the industry
average for the second straight year. Its affiliate,  Kia Motors
Corp. (000270) , tied with Hyundai and Ford’s Lincoln brand, with 107
problems per 100 vehicles. Kia’s performance improved 5 percent.  Small-car brands Fiat and Smart were added to the survey
this year, bringing the number of makes to 34. They tied for the
worst scores.  J.D. Power said its study was based on surveys of more than
74,000 purchasers of 2012 model-year cars, trucks and SUVs.
Owners answered a 228-question survey about their first 90 days
of ownership. The study was conducted between February and May.
J.D. Power is a unit of  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)   J.D. Power cited plants producing Toyota, Lexus, Honda,
Volvo, Mercedes-Benz and Porsche models for quality awards. No
U.S. automaker received a quality citation for a factory from
J.D. Power for the second consecutive year.  “It certainly doesn’t seem to be the people who work on
the line,” Sargent said of U.S. automakers being shut out of
factory awards again. “It’s more around the design of the
product. The Japanese historically have been very good at
designing products which are relatively easy to put together.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  