-- Gold Slumps Most in Two Weeks After Fed Expands Operation Twist
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-06-20T19:50:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/gold-slumps-most-in-two-weeks-after-fed-expands-operation-twist.html
Gold posted the biggest drop in
almost two weeks after the  Federal Reserve  said it would extend
its Operation Twist program, while refraining from announcing
additional debt purchases.  The central bank will expand its program to replace short-
term bonds with longer-term debt by $267 billion through the end
of the year in a bid to reduce unemployment and protect
expansion, policy makers said today in a statement. The Fed
bought $2.3 trillion in assets through June 2011 in two rounds
known as quantitative easing.  “The market is disappointed, and we are seeing some sell
off,”  Bart Melek , the Toronto-based head of commodity strategy
at TD Securities Inc., said in a telephone interview. “The
market had begun unwinding in the past few sessions since
expectations were mixed, so I think the sell off will not be a
very huge one.”  Gold futures for August delivery fell 0.5 percent to settle
at $1,615.80 an ounce on the Comex in  New York , the biggest
slump since June 7.  Prices extended losses in after-hours electronic trading,
falling 1 percent to $1,607 at 3:50 p.m. in New York.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said access to credit remains
a “major issue” without specifying additional stimulative
measures during a press conference after the close of floor
trading.  “If we don’t see continued improvement in the labor
market, we’ll be prepared to take additional steps if
appropriate,” Bernanke said at a news conference.  “The Fed leaving the doors open without actually going
through them has disappointed the market,” said Michael Gayed,
the chief investment strategist at New York-based Pension
Partners LLC, which advises on more than $150 million in assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  