-- Goldman Sachs Outbid by Pension in Behrman Fund Auction
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-06-20T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/goldman-sachs-outbid-by-pension-in-behrman-fund-auction.html
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board
beat  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in an auction to be the lead
investor in a $1 billion transaction to take over assets of a
2001 fund managed by private-equity firm Behrman Capital.  Canada Pension, the country’s second-biggest public pension
manager, agreed to commit as much as $644.4 million to Behrman
Capital PEP LP, a new fund with a six-year life that will buy
assets from the original Behrman fund, according to marketing
documents. The new fund is seeking $1.07 billion.  The transaction gives investors the option of exiting their
stakes in Behrman Capital III LP, a $1.2 billion fund formed 11
years ago. They can also choose to invest in the new pool, which
has reserved $100 million for such rollover commitments,
according to the documents, copies of which were obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Behrman, based in  New York , is among a number of private-
equity firms seeking to resolve the future of funds that are
reaching the end of their designated lives without having sold
all their investments. Willis Stein & Partners, a buyout firm
that last raised capital more than a decade ago, is trying to
divest most of its remaining holdings, two people familiar with
the deal said in February.  Five Companies  Linda Sims, a spokeswoman for Toronto-based Canada Pension,
declined to comment, as did Bill Murphy, a managing director at
Cogent Partners, which handled the auction for Behrman Capital.
Grant Behrman, co-founder of the firm, didn’t return a call for
comment, while Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail.  The new fund will use 75 percent of commitments to purchase
existing stakes in five companies primarily held by Behrman
Capital III. The companies are Ark Holding Co., ILC Holdings
Inc., New ILC Dover Inc., Pelican Products Inc. and Selig
Sealing Holdings Inc., the documents show. Other funds have
minority stakes in the companies, including Behrman Capital IV
LP, which raised $251 million in 2007.  The remaining capital will be used to fund new investments,
primarily in the health-care, defense, specialty manufacturing
or business-to-business outsourcing industries in the U.S.  The deal will give Behrman Capital III investors net
proceeds of $780.6 million after fees, representing 102.4 percent
of net asset value as of Dec. 31. The general partner will
receive a cut of profits from the transaction and 20 percent of
a $40 million exit fee paid by the portfolio companies, according
to one of the documents.  Fee Changes  Behrman Capital reduced the proposed management fee on the
new fund to 0.75 percent from an originally proposed 1.25
percent in March. It has increased the proposed carried interest
fee to 20 percent from 15 percent.  Behrman Capital III is near the end of its life, having
already received investor approval for two of three one-year
extensions beyond its 10-year term.  The deal has passed muster with the advisory boards of Fund
III and Fund IV and is pending approval from Behrman investors,
who face a deadline of today, the documents show.  Behrman Capital was founded by brothers Grant Behrman and
Darryl Behrman in 1991. Darryl passed away in February 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  