-- Goldman Sachs, Global Meltdown, Romney Inspire Trillin
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2012-06-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/goldman-sachs-global-meltdown-romney-inspire-trillin.html
When  Lloyd Blankfein  said Goldman
Sachs was doing “God’s work,” Calvin Trillin was inspired to
write a poem, including the lines: “The Lord has got this
itch/To see the Goldman Sachs folks filthy rich.”  Trillin is a long-time staff writer at the  New Yorker  and
also the Nation’s deadline poet. His best-selling books include
“About Alice.”  For “Quite Enough of Calvin Trillin: Forty Years of Funny
Stuff,” he picked out his favorite pieces.  We spoke over lunch at Bloomberg world headquarters in  New
York .  Lundborg: You have a unique theory about what caused the
global financial meltdown.  Trillin: An old Ivy League guy in a bar near Grand Central
explained that the meltdown was about smart people going to  Wall
Street . In his day the lower third of the class went into
finance.  They were pleasant guys. They were well-dressed. They
weren’t even terribly greedy by today’s standards -- they wanted
a house in Greenwich with a big sail boat.  But then, because of all of the money being made, the smart
kids, like 30 or 40 percent of the Harvard class, went either to
business school or directly to Wall Street. They’re the ones who
caused the trouble.  No Idea  Lundborg: How?  Trillin: Our guys couldn’t have made up credit default
swaps. They couldn’t have done the math. They had no idea.  All they knew, and they were the heads of the firms by this
time, was that because of something they had no understanding
of, they were getting filthy rich.  Lundborg: What are you working on now?  Trillin: An epic poem on the campaign. I did “Deciding the
Next Decider” in 2008. The one for 2012 is called “Dog
Fight.”  I don’t write what my family calls “grown-up poetry.”  Lundborg:  How did you come to revive that great 18th
century tradition of satirical political verse?  Trillin: I owe it all to John Sununu -- the former chief of
staff for the first  Bush administration . Everybody looked alike
and there were these nice Protestant gentlemen in suits who’d
all gone to Yale or Princeton.  The only one who stood out was John Sununu, who seemed
mostly interested in showing he was the smartest guy in the
room.  I loved his name and then I thought of a title for a poem:
“If You Knew What Sununu.”  Ken Doll  Lundborg: You compared  Mitt Romney  to a Ken doll: “So
quick to shed his moderate regalia,/He may, like Ken, be lacking
genitalia.” Is it the rhyme that’s important?  Trillin: My political feelings are strong, but people with
bad meter or bad rhyme names just shouldn’t go into politics.  Clinton was for me the orange of American presidents.  Lundborg: Is it harder or easier to be funny now?  Trillin: It was easy during the Republican primary. Who
knew Perry was going to do those things? When Trump showed up in
the lead, we were sure it was going to be a clown show.  All the talk about Obama’s birth and being a Muslim is just
race stuff coming out of the cracks. The whole attempt is to
make him seem “other,” not really American.  Lundborg: You’ve written a lot about food. What do you make
of all the changes in the dining scene?  Trillin: One was a shakeup of society in the early 1970s
that brought a lot of educated, middle-class kids into the
field. When I was in college, you couldn’t have asked a trust
lawyer “How’s Frank, your son?” and have him say “He’s great.
He’s a chef.”  Lundborg: What was the other big change?  Racist Thing  Trillin: The ’65 immigration act. We had a policy under
this national quota act that was basically a racist thing
favoring northern  Europe  and  England .  We were letting in more English people that wanted to come
and keeping out all Chinese people. In culinary terms that’s
suicidal.  Lundborg: It’s like the bland food at fancy clubs.  Trillin: The tastiness of the food is in inverse proportion
to the exclusivity of a club because they associate garlic and
spices and schmaltz with just the sort of people they’re trying
to keep out.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  dining  and  book  reviews.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 