-- Google Windows-Killer Takes Second Shot: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-06-20T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/google-windows-killer-takes-second-shot-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Has there ever been a piece of
software more reviled or that’s had its obituary written more
often than Microsoft Windows?  A year ago,  Google (GOOG)  and its hardware partner, Samsung,
introduced a bold effort to drive a stake through the heart of
Windows: the Chromebook laptop.  Here was a simple, easy-to-use computer that relied on the
Internet to handle every task, from running programs to storing
documents -- all without a line of Microsoft code.  Both the product and its reception in the marketplace were
less than stellar. Now Google and Samsung are back with a new
pair of computers, the Chromebook Series 5 laptop and Chromebox
Series 3 desktop computer. They’ve improved from last year, but
not enough.  At the heart of the computers is Google’s  Chrome Operating
System , which is essentially a web browser. Instead of
installing programs on the computer, you run web apps --
programs that are located online and accessed through the
browser. Google maintains a  website  where you can find links to
several thousand of them and install shortcuts on your computer.  There are a number of advantages to this set-up. The
operating system on your computer is never out of date. (In
fact, Google has already pushed out multiple updates since last
year’s launch.)  All your apps are online and your documents are
automatically backed up to the cloud, so you can access them
from any Internet-enabled computer.  No Net  But there are disadvantages as well, principally if you’re
somewhere without an Internet connection, when the Chromebook’s
usefulness plummets. Another limitation is its capacity: a mere
16 gigabytes, less than many smartphones.  Physically, the Chromebook is solid if nondescript. It
weighs 3.3 pounds, is .8 of an inch thick, has a 12.1-inch
screen and a battery  Samsung (005930)  says will last for six hours.  The base, Wi-Fi-only model costs $450; for $100 more, you
can get one with built-in 3G service from  Verizon (VZ)  Wireless. The
price of the 3G model includes a minimal 100 megabytes of data
per month. Plans with higher limits are available at extra cost.  New this year, the Chromebox costs $329, but you provide
your own screen and keyboard; it’s comparable to  Apple (AAPL) ’s Mac
Mini. Both Chrome computers use  Intel (INTC) ’s lightweight Celeron
microprocessor, a chip you can find in many comparably priced
Windows PCs with far greater capabilities.  Screeching Halt  The first thing I did with the Chromebook was try to
activate it in Bloomberg’s  San Francisco  offices. A year ago,
this seemingly simple task came to a screeching halt because --
unlike every iPhone, iPad, Kindle and even phones running
Google’s own Android operating system -- the Chrome OS couldn’t
handle the common authentication method we use on our network.  This time: success. Sort of. I still couldn’t do it, but
three members of our technical-support team, after a fair amount
of fiddling and fumbling, were able to make it work.  Except for that, the Chromebook is easy to use. Google has
also added a couple of features that make it look and feel a
little more like a traditional computer, including a task-bar-
like launcher for opening new Chrome or app windows. You can
also have multiple windows open at once and drag them where you
like them.  Offline Mode  I was also able to try out a new feature promised for next
month: an offline mode that will allow you to work on a document
even when you’re not online, then sync the changes automatically
next time you connect.  Using a test document Google shared with me via Google
Docs, I shut down my Internet connection, tweaked the file -- a
mock job resume for  Harry Potter  -- and saw my changes reflected
once I re-enabled access to the network.  I ran into trouble, though, when I attempted to open a
 Microsoft (MSFT)  Word file I had emailed to myself using Google’s
Gmail.  Three times, the download failed and I received an error
message inviting me to help Google debug the problem. While I
came up with a workaround, it’s the sort of thing that doesn’t
instill confidence.  Over all, the new version of the Chromebook improves on its
predecessor, and will be even better with the offline
functionality. But “better than it was” isn’t the same as “a
compelling experience.”  Of all companies, Microsoft seems to get it.  While this week’s announcement of its new Surface tablets
left huge questions unanswered, it’s a dramatic attempt to
reimagine Windows computing -- and considerably more intriguing
than what Google and Samsung have to offer, even the second time
around.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  television  and  car  reviews.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 