-- Google’s Motorola Mobility Offers to End Microsoft Cases
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-06-21T16:49:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/google-s-motorola-mobility-offers-to-settle-microsoft-cases.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit
said it made a new offer to settle its patent-infringement
disputes with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  over the Xbox gaming system and
smartphones. Microsoft questioned whether the offer was serious.  Motorola Mobility offered to pay 33 cents for every phone
that uses Microsoft’s ActiveSync software to avoid an import ban
by the U.S. International Trade Commission on phones that use
the software, Kirk Dailey, vice president of intellectual
property for Motorola Mobility, said in an interview yesterday.  The Google unit also lowered its demand for royalties on
products that use Microsoft’s Windows operating system, to 50
cents for each unit that uses the industry standard for video
compression. The company maintained its request for 2.25 percent
of the cost of the Xbox gaming system, Dailey said. Microsoft
could be banned from importing the Xbox if it loses an ITC case
brought by Motorola Mobility.  “We’re hopeful they’re going to respond positively,”
Dailey said. “We should have a response in two weeks.”  A settlement would end tit-for-tat cases the companies
brought against each other. Microsoft, which contends all
devices that run on Google’s Android operating system use its
technology, sought royalties from Motorola Mobility.
Libertyville, Illinois-based Motorola Mobility responded by
demanding royalties on the Xbox for use of the company’s Wi-Fi
and video-compression technology.  License Refusal  “While we welcome any good faith settlement effort, it’s
hard to apply that label to a demand that Microsoft pay
royalties to Google far in excess of market rates, that refuses
to license all the Microsoft patents infringed by Motorola,”
 Horacio Gutierrez , Microsoft’s deputy general counsel for
intellectual property, said in a statement.  The Motorola Mobility offer would increase the amount to be
paid on the Xbox because it would extend to controllers as well,
Gutierrez said. Microsoft has asserted other patents in district
court against Motorola Mobility that aren’t related to
ActiveSync.  Motorola Mobility, which Google bought last month, is
facing an order that it must remove the ActiveSync feature from
its Android phones or the phones will be stopped at the border.
The import ban is scheduled to go into effect July 17 unless it
is overturned by President  Barack Obama  on public policy
grounds.  The 33-cent offer on Android phones equals the amount of a
bond that Motorola Mobility is obligated to post during the
presidential review period, and is higher than what the company
paid under a prior license for ActiveSync, Dailey said.  Standard Rate  Motorola Mobility had offered to license its own patents to
Microsoft at a rate of 2.25 percent on the retail price of the
products, which the company has said is its standard rate.
Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft said in court filings that
the figure would amount to $4 billion a year and filed a lawsuit
accusing Motorola Mobility of violating its obligation to
license patents related to industry standards on fair terms.  The $4 billion figure was based, in part, on a calculation
that the 2.25 percent would apply to the cost of a computer that
runs on Windows. Motorola Mobility challenged Microsoft’s
calculation.  Dailey said the offer has been changed to 50 cents per unit
for the video standard so if Microsoft were to sell 300 million
copies of Windows, that would equal $150 million.  Windows Offer  Gutierrez said the Windows offer is for only one standard,
and doesn’t include Wi-Fi technology. The company pays 2 cents
per unit to a patent pool for access to 2,300 patents for the
video decoding standard, while Motorola Mobility wants to be
paid 50 cents per unit for the use of its 50 patents on the
standard plus free use of Microsoft’s patents on the technology,
he said.  Motorola Mobility also has made a licensing offer to  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and the companies continue to be in discussions, he said.  “Both Microsoft and Apple need to show that they’re
willing to be reasonable as well by respecting the contributions
Motorola has made in literally creating the mobile phone
industry,” Dailey said. “Injunctions are an extreme remedy,
but not when you’ve been negotiating with someone for years with
no movement, and who is actively seeking to destroy a competitor
ecosystem.”  Judges’ Findings  Judges at the International Trade Commission have said that
Microsoft and Apple infringe Motorola Mobility patents related
to industry standards. The commission is scheduled to announce
June 25 whether it will review those findings, and has set
target dates in August to complete those investigations.  European regulators are investigating complaints brought by
Microsoft and Apple that Motorola Mobility was misusing its
patents as the companies battle for smartphone market share.  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission and leaders of the House
Judiciary Committee submitted comments to the ITC saying that
companies should be limited in their ability to win import bans
using standard-essential patents.  “At a time when the FTC, prominent members of Congress and
leading companies from across the industry are expressing
concern about Google’s refusal to honor its obligations to
standards bodies, this appears to be little more than an effort
to change the subject,” Gutierrez said.  The Motorola Mobility case against Microsoft is In the
Matter of Gaming and Entertainment Consoles, 337-752 and the
Microsoft case against Motorola Mobility is In the Matter of
Mobile Devices, Associated Software and Components Thereof, 337-
744, both U.S. International Trade Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story: Susan Decker in
Washington at   sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Bernard Kohn
at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  