-- Greeks Face German Nemesis as Bailout Battle Moves to Soccer
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n ,   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k   a n d   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2012-06-21T07:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/greeks-face-german-nemesis-as-bailout-battle-moves-to-soccer.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  will be
cheering from the stands tomorrow as Europe’s austerity battle
moves to the soccer field, with Greece seeking retribution from
the country that’s demanding spending cuts its citizens decry.  The Greeks are taking on record three-time title winner
 Germany  in the second quarterfinal of the European Championship,
the meeting of the top 16 teams in the region being held in
 Poland  and Ukraine. The Germans are the only team to have won
all three of the opening round matches, while Greece, the 2004
champion, is a surprise contender after upsetting  Russia .  Germany is the biggest national contributor to the euro-
region bailouts of indebted nations and the contest has stirred
national emotions, with some seeing it as a chance to punish
 Greece  for its spendthrift ways. Greeks, upset about Merkel’s
insistence on austerity as a condition for aid, want to win at
something. Greece has received two bailouts totaling 240 billion
euros ($305 billion) from the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund  during the debt crisis, now in its third year.  “David should beat Goliath, shouldn’t he?” said Thanassis
Kounathis, a 53-year-old bus driver in Athens. “Someone has to
teach them a lesson, even if it’s only in football. The EU
started as an equal community where rich and poor have the same
voice. Now Germany gives orders and everyone else follows.”  Favorite to Win  Merkel is scheduled to travel to Rome for a summit with
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti , French President  Francois Hollande  and Spanish Premier  Mariano Rajoy  on the day of the
game. She will then fly to Gdansk, Poland, to attend the evening
match, German government spokesman Georg Streiter said.  Germany is favorite to win the tournament at U.K. bookmaker
 William Hill (WMH) , with odds of 2-1. That means a successful $1 bet
will return $2 plus the original stake. Defending champion Spain
has 5-2 odds, with Greece the long shot at 50-1.  Germany hasn’t lost in eight previous matches against
Greece, winning five and drawing three, according to FIFA
statistics. Germany has scored 17 goals to 7 by Greece in those
meetings.  Dominant Team  Germany has been the dominant team in the championship,
which is held every four years. A young side featuring Real
Madrid players Mesut Ozil and Sami Khedira as well as Bayern
Munich midfielder  Bastian Schweinsteiger  and goalkeeper  Manuel Neuer , the Germans finished top of Group B, scoring five times
and allowing two goals.  The Greeks entered the final day of the opening round in
last place in Group A, behind Russia,  Czech Republic  and Poland.
They defeated Russia 1-0 with a goal from captain Giorgos
Karagounis, a 35-year-old who played in the 2004 championship.
The team -- which featured nine players from the Greek league in
the Russia match -- finished with three goals and gave up the
same amount.  None of those statistics count now as the countries and
fans posture for moral supremacy.  Greek political leaders struck an agreement yesterday on a
governing coalition that will seek relief from the austerity
measures, with  New Democracy  head Antonis Samaras sworn in as
prime minister.  New Democracy, which won a June 17 election with almost 30
percent of the vote, is joining forces with the socialist Pasok
party, which finished third, and the sixth-place Democratic
Left. They will hold 179 seats in the 300-member parliament.  Deepening Recession  The spending cuts and tax increases tied to the aid the
country received have deepened a recession now in its fifth year
and left more than one in five Greeks without jobs.  A win would be “a refreshing breath of fresh air and
optimism for Greece,” said George Helakis, a sportscaster who
gave the national team its nickname, the “pirate ship,” while
commentating in the first game of the 2004 championship, which
Greece won under German coach Otto Rehhagel.  “It would be a message that Greece can stand up to
footballing and economic powers,” he said.  “It would be
symbolic only, practically it wouldn’t mean anything.”  Chrisostomos Bikatzik, a spokesman for Samaras’s New
Democracy party, declined to comment on whether Samaras will
attend tomorrow’s game, which begins at 8:45 p.m. Berlin time.  “For myself, I would be happy if he comes to Gdansk,”
Merkel said late yesterday. “I hope it will be a great sporting
event and that it will be a very fair sporting event.”  War of Words  German and Greek newspapers have fought a war of words over
who’s to blame for  Europe ’s crisis, which has raised the specter
of a breakup of the euro and a Greek exit from the monetary
union, and who should pay for it.  Greek publications have vilified Merkel and drawn Nazi-era
comparisons to Germany’s debt-crisis management and perceived
interference in domestic issues.  Bild Zeitung, Germany’s most widely read newspaper, in an
open letter to the Greek people published the day before the
June 17 election, said Greeks had the choice between “painful
rationality and total destruction.”  Many Germans blame Greece for the region’s economic
struggles, and the weakness of the euro, and see tomorrow’s
match as an opportunity for vindication.  “If I were really honest, I would be more angry about
losing to Greece than being defeated by another country,” said
Katharina Molnar, a 25-year-old German, who spoke while watching
Spain defeat  Croatia  in a restaurant in  Frankfurt  on June 18.
“Because of the crisis you tend to project an image of the
country on the players, even if that’s unfair.”  Losing Momentum  The crisis is stretching Europe’s defenses as its leaders
try to protect Italy and Spain from the contagion. Spain’s 10-
year bond yield rose above 7 percent this week, reaching a euro-
era record.  The German economy, Europe’s biggest, is losing momentum as
the crisis curbs demand for its goods. Investor confidence fell
the most in 14 years in June, the ZEW Center for  Economic
Research  in  Mannheim , Germany, said this week. Exports, factory
orders and industrial production all fell in April and business
sentiment waned in May.  “The game is not only about football but also about
honor,” said Sophie Kennert, an 18-year-old student in
Frankfurt. “The Greeks already have our money and they should
not get our victory as well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net ;
Tino Andresen in Frankfurt at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  