-- Russia Stocks Slide 1st Day in Four as Gazprom Drops, Fed Meets
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-06-20T15:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/micex-index-slides-first-day-in-four-before-u-s-fed-decision.html
Russian stocks fell for the first
time in four days as the Federal Reserve weighed the possibility
of new stimulus measures and as OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest
natural-gas producer, retreated.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slid 1.1 percent to 1,374.69 by the close
in Moscow. Power companies OAO RusHydro, Federal Grid Co. and
MRSK Holding declined at least 2.8 percent. OAO Rosneft, the
country’s biggest oil producer, added 0.4 percent as Chief
Executive Officer  Igor Sechin  said  Russia ’s biggest oil producer
may boost dividends.  Gazprom, which has the second-biggest weighting in the
gauge at 15 percent, sank as much as 1.1 percent after saying
gas exports to  Europe  fell between January and May from a year
earlier. Fed policy makers began a two-day meeting yesterday to
discuss U.S. growth and consider lengthening the maturity of
Treasury holdings. Crude oil, Russia’s main export earner,
retreated in  New York  trading.  “Investors are not expected to do much more than mark time
while waiting for the U.S.  Federal Reserve ’s policy statement
later today,”  Troika Dialog ’s strategist  Chris Weafer  said in
an e-mailed note.  Rosneft gained as much as 0.8 percent after falling 0.9
percent earlier as Sechin said the oil producer may distribute
additional dividends to lift payments to 25 percent of 2011
profit.  Gazprom Revenue  Gazprom, the world’s biggest natural-gas producer, expects
revenue from European exports to rise this year as prices
increase and customers pay for contracted volumes they didn’t
take, Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Alexander Medvedev  told
reporters today in Moscow.  The  Russian Depositary Index (RDXUSD)  of London-traded stocks
dropped 0.9 percent to 1,515.13. Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index
fell 0.2 percent.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 0.3 percent to 945.88,
gaining for a third day. Russian stocks trade at 5.1 times
 estimated earnings , having lost 1.9 percent this year. That
compares with a 3.4 percent gain for the  MSCI Emerging-Market
Index (MXEF)  which trades at 9.6 times projected earnings.  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, dropped 1.6 percent to $25.79. The RTS
Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in the index
futures, gained 3.7 percent to 38.07 points in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  