-- Micron Posts 4th Straight Loss as Memory-Chip Prices Fall
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-06-21T23:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/micron-posts-4th-straight-loss-as-memory-chip-prices-fall.html
Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , the largest
U.S. maker of computer memory, reported a fourth consecutive
quarterly loss after prices fell for chips used to store data in
phones and tablets, crimping sales.  The net loss was $320 million, or 32 cents a share, for the
third quarter ended May 31, compared with profit of $75 million,
or 7 cents, a year earlier, the Boise, Idaho-based company said
yesterday in a statement. Sales rose 1.5 percent to $2.17
billion. Analysts projected a loss of 20 cents on revenue of
$1.99 billion, the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Makers of smartphones and other mobile devices haven’t
equipped their products with as much memory as had been
predicted, nor are computer manufacturers turning to chips for
main storage at rates that were forecast, according to a report
this week by  Doug Freedman , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in
San Francisco. The result has been a glut in the product
category called Nand  flash memory .  Prices may begin to increase this month or in July as the
result of demand for chips for new models of devices, Freedman
wrote. He rates Micron outperform, the equivalent of a buy
recommendation.  “We see reason to be optimistic,” Micron President  Mark Adams  said in a telephone interview. “Pricing isn’t in a great
place, but it’s an improved and more stable environment.”  Micron shares  fell  7.8 percent to $5.65 at the close in  New
York . The stock has lost 10 percent this year.  Japan’s Elpida  The company said in May it was in talks to buy a Japanese
competitor, Elpida Memory Inc., to gain more control of industry
output because periods of oversupply make it difficult for
Micron to deliver profits. Elpida, the last Japanese maker of
computer-memory chips, sought  bankruptcy protection  in February
after losses left it unable to pay debts.  “We don’t feel that it’s a deal where we are up against
the wall and have to do it at all costs,” said Micron’s Adams.
“Micron has always been very sensitive to balance-sheet
preservation and we’ll continue with that goal in mind.”  Acquiring Elpida would double Micron’s share of the global
market for dynamic random-access memory, the most widely used
memory chips in personal computers, to about 24 percent, helping
it compete against industry leader Samsung Electronics Co. An
acquisition of Elpida, which has three factories, would give
Micron access to customers it currently doesn’t supply,
executives of the U.S. company said yesterday.  Micron Chief Executive Officer Mark Durcan told analysts
yesterday that the company will only go ahead with a purchase if
it doesn’t involve diluting stock or taking on too much
interest-bearing debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  