-- Microsoft Debuts Windows 8 Phone Software to Rival Google
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-06-20T18:58:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/microsoft-unveils-windows-8-phone-software-at-event-today.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest
software maker, will release a new version of the Windows Phone
program in handsets this fall, part of a broad effort to gain
ground against Apple Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in mobile devices.  Windows Phone 8 has the same core software as the new
Windows 8 operating system for personal computers and tablets,
meaning it can be used in a variety of phone models at different
prices, the company said at an event in  San Francisco  today.  Microsoft finished the first quarter with a 2.2 percent
share of the mobile-phone operating system market, dwarfed by
Apple’s iOS and Google’s Android software, according to
researcher IDC. Along with the unveiling earlier this week of
its own tablet computer, called Surface, the Redmond,
Washington-based company is stepping up its challenge as
consumers rely more on mobile-computing devices.  “Windows Phone 8 is a significant improvement,” said Al Hilwa, an analyst at IDC. “It brings the capabilities up to par
with Android. The question of whether this pace of research and
development is fast enough remains, because of the sheer
velocity with which Android is moving.”  Android was the  smartphone market  leader in the first
quarter, with a 59 percent share, and  Apple (AAPL)  followed with 23
percent, IDC said. Symbian software from  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the Finnish
handset maker Microsoft teamed up with last year to create new
smartphones running Windows, trailed in third place with a 6.8
percent slice.  Nokia’s Woes  The new software comes as Nokia, Microsoft’s closest ally
in the smartphone market, faces mounting losses and debt
downgrades as it tries to remake its business around Windows
Phone. Handsets with the new software will be made by Nokia, as
well as Huawei Technologies Co., HTC Corp. and Samsung
Electronics Co.  “Microsoft needs a healthy Nokia,” Hilwa said. “One can
argue there are other hardware makers working on Windows Phone,
but if Nokia goes down it will make the other hardware makers
feel, ‘Windows Phone isn’t a platform we want to absorb.’
Everyone is watching how Nokia does.”  Windows Phone 8 software will run on phones with dual-core
chips and high-definition screens, Microsoft said. Chips will be
made by  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the same as with earlier Windows Phones.  Microsoft shares rose less than 1 percent to $30.81 at 2:57
p.m. in  New York . The stock has gained 19 percent this year.  Digital Wallets  Microsoft’s software will support near-field communication
technology, which lets customers use phones to make payments. It
will have a digital wallet that can store coupons and frequent
flier miles and pay for goods, said Joe Belfiore, a Microsoft
vice president. The company is working with France Telecom SA’s
Orange mobile-phone unit to adopt the wallet features and plans
to add more mobile carriers in the future.  Users will be able to store  credit card  and other payment
details and get deals through the wallet, as long as the
companies involved and customers’ banks create applications and
support for the wallet. The NFC feature will also enable
customers to share content between phones, tablets and laptops
with NFC.  Belfiore also showed the software’s new start-screen
design, calling it the “sexiest thing” in Windows Phone 8. The
design lets users do more to customize the program’s Live Tiles,
which automatically update with new information from a user’s
programs and contacts. Live Tiles are “the heart and soul of
our product,” he said.  Microsoft will switch from its own Bing Maps and instead
use Nokia’s mapping software in the new program. Windows Phone
will also get  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) ’s gaming apps “Words With
Friends” and “Draw Something” later this year.  Current Windows Phone users won’t be able to upgrade to the
new software, unlike with previous versions, which were rolled
out to all Windows Phones. Instead, a subset of the features,
like the new start screen design, will be available as Windows
Phone 7.8 for owners of current devices like Nokia’s  Lumia 900 .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  