-- A Functional Congress Wouldn’t Have to Depend on Bernanke
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-20T19:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/if-congress-worked-it-wouldn-t-be-dependent-on-bernanke.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s  decision  to
order another round of monetary stimulus (albeit a modest one)
plays into the hands of critics who accuse Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  of enabling  Washington ’s deficit-spending addiction.  The good news for Senator  Jim DeMint , the South Carolina
Republican, and other lawmakers who share this view is that they
have the power to stop the debt binge by agreeing on a long-term
deficit-reduction plan.  First things first: The Fed’s move, although likely to have
a limited effect, is still welcome news for an economy growing
 too slowly  to create enough jobs for the millions of Americans
looking for work. The economic picture threatens to slip into
reverse for the third consecutive year with gross domestic
product expected to increase just 2 percent in 2012. The outlook
for 2013 isn’t much better.  Europe ’s implosion,  Asia ’s slowdown
and the pending withdrawal of more than $600 billion from the
U.S. economy are creating stiff headwinds.  The Fed’s extension of Operation Twist, in which it will
replace $267 billion in short-term debt with longer-term
securities, continues its efforts to stimulate the economy by
driving down interest rates. The theory is that cheap credit
will spur consumers to buy and refinance homes, purchase new
cars and other goods, and encourage businesses to invest and
hire.  Operation Twist  Since the 2008 financial crisis, the Fed has tried to push
rates lower by snapping up  Treasury securities  and mortgage-
backed bonds issued by  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . After
initially purchasing more than $2 trillion worth, the Fed in
September began Operation Twist, which involved selling $400
billion in short-term bonds it already owns and using the funds
to buy longer-term ones.  Today’s move extends that program to year-end, but many
economists see its effect waning. For each  interest-rate
reduction the Fed engineers, its ability to entice more
borrowing diminishes.  One side effect of the Fed’s debt-buying spree is that it
helps the U.S. government finance its  budget deficit . After all,
the Fed is a motivated buyer of  U.S. debt  -- which enables all
that  government spending  -- and lower  interest rates  make it
cheaper for the U.S. to borrow. The Bank of International
Settlements  estimates  Operation Twist lowered the 10-year bond
yield by 0.85 percentage point, which lowers borrowing costs for
the  U.S. Treasury .  This has given rise to criticism among lawmakers and some
Fed officials that all this intervention is simply enabling
fiscal recklessness. As Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  put
it recently, there is “a  growing sense  that we are unwittingly
or, worse, deliberately monetizing the wayward ways of
Congress.”  DeMint and fellow Republican Senator  Mike Lee  of Utah have
proposed cutting off the spigot by capping the Fed’s balance
sheet. That’s a backward way of trying to address the crux of
the criticism -- that the U.S. is running an outsized  budget
deficit . A more sensible approach, and one that will lessen the
need for Fed intervention, is to couple short-term fiscal
stimulus, such as an income tax rebate, with longer-term deficit
reduction that cuts spending and increases revenue.  To be clear, the Fed is stepping in largely because
Congress won’t. Bernanke recently told lawmakers as much when he
said Congress could “take some of this burden from us” by
agreeing to a budget plan that includes short-term fiscal
stimulus and long-term debt reduction.  Bigger Jolt  More important than relieving the Fed’s burden, fiscal
stimulus would provide a bigger economic jolt because it can be
better targeted than monetary intervention. As the Fed has
 observed , the cheap credit produced by its easing isn’t
filtering down to those who need it the most. It’s primarily
benefiting wealthier individuals and those with sterling credit
records, which lowers the impact because the well-off are less
likely to spend their savings from cheaper mortgages and other
big-ticket items. Bernanke on Wednesday said the lack of
available credit to the less-well-off “mutes” the Fed’s efforts.  At the same time, an anticipated pickup in productivity
will make it more difficult for Fed policies to reduce
unemployment, because businesses will be able to do more with
existing workers. As Bloomberg News reports, worker output per
hour will probably rise about 1.5 percent in 2012, a rate that
could translate into continued sluggish payroll gains.  To attack the jobs problem, the Fed would probably need to
temporarily tolerate inflation slightly higher than its 2
percent target. Two percent, after all, is a target and not a
ceiling. Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  indicated as much in a
speech in April, when she warned the economy could fall into a
“self-reinforcing downward spiral of economic activity” that it
may not be able to stop without bold, pre-emptive Fed action.
The Fed’s downgrades Wednesday of GDP growth and employment for
this year and next leave it wriggle room for yet more bond
buying or even an extension to 2015 of its pledge to keep
interest rates near zero through 2014.  Yet one reason the Fed isn’t more aggressive is the strong
pushback from Republicans and a handful of others who deeply
mistrust the central bank or think Bernanke is trying to help
President  Barack Obama  get re-elected.  The Fed may be making it easier for the government to
finance its deficit, but the main enablers are members of
Congress, who have so far proved unwilling to attack the very
real problems threatening the  U.S. economy . Rather than
criticizing the Fed for stepping into the vacuum, lawmakers
should do their part by agreeing to a compromise budget that
allows for immediate economic growth and a more sustainable
future.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 