-- Miami Heat Move Within One Win of NBA Title Behind Injured James
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-06-20T05:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/limping-lebron-james-leads-miami-heat-within-1-win-of-nba-title.html
LeBron James  had 26 points, 12
assists and nine rebounds as the Miami Heat moved within one win
of claiming the National Basketball Association championship
with a 104-98 defeat of the Oklahoma City Thunder.  James sat out the final minute at AmericanAirlines Arena in
Miami last night with cramps, coach  Erik Spoelstra  said. James
hit a 3-pointer with just under three minutes remaining, shortly
after his leg problem arose, to break a 94-94 tie. The Heat
never trailed again.  “At the end of the game, he was playing with an incredible
intensity level,” Spoelstra said in a news conference. “At
that point he was just trying to will his body and make
something happen. That three was just sheer competitiveness.”  Dwyane Wade  and  Mario Chalmers  each scored 25 points for
the Heat, who lead the best-of-seven Finals three games to one
and can clinch their first NBA title since 2006 with a Game 5
win at home tomorrow. Should the Thunder win, the series will
return to Oklahoma City for Games 6 and 7, if needed. No team
has won the title after trailing 3-1 in the Finals.  Chalmers, who was held to 13 points in the first three
quarters, scored 12 of the Heat’s 25 fourth-quarter points.  “Coach said he believed in Mario Chalmers and he was due
for a big game,” Wade said.  Russell Westbrook  scored 43 points and  Kevin Durant  had 28
for the Thunder.  “Russell was terrific,” Thunder coach Scott Brooks told
reporters. “The guy played relentless, he was terrific, he kept
us in the game and gave us a chance to win.”  Miami overcame a 17-point first-quarter deficit, going on a
16-0 run that started in the closing seconds of the opening
period. Westbrook had 18 points in the first half, while James
had 10 points, eight assists and six rebounds in the half.  “We can’t start out like we did today,” Wade said about
Game 5. “We have to come out focused with a lot of energy and
play that game like it’s our last.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  