-- Indonesia May Allow Banks to Own as Much as 90% of Local Lenders
-- B y   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-06-20T04:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/indonesia-may-allow-banks-to-own-as-much-as-90-of-local-lenders.html
Indonesia  may allow banks to own as
much as 90 percent of commercial lenders, easing concerns on
ownership caps that may affect acquisitions including DBS Group
Holdings Ltd.’s bid for  PT Bank Danamon Indonesia. (BDMN)   Bank Indonesia  plans to announce the ownership rule before
July, Deputy Governor Muliaman Hadad, who’s in charge of banking
regulations, said in Jakarta after a speech today.  The ownership stake “could be that high,” Hadad said,
responding queries from reporters on whether banks could own as
much as 90 percent of local lenders. “Of course this will be on
a very selective basis.”  The comment comes two months after  Singapore ’s DBS’s 66
trillion rupiah ($7 billion) bid for Danamon, which triggered
proposals from Bank Indonesia’s officials to restrict the
shareholding of local lenders by other financial institutions.
The possible limit led traders to bet that the deal,  Southeast
Asia ’s largest banking takeover, may unravel.  “There has been a lot of relatively negative news flow on
Indonesia’s recent regulatory changes,” said Anand Pathmakanthan, a Singapore-based analyst at Nomura Equity
Research who has a “buy” rating on  DBS (DBS)  shares. “So this could
be a bit of a white flag, sort of a concession by Indonesian
authorities to indicate to the market that they are open to
foreign direct investments. Chances are definitely higher with
this so-called concession.”  Indonesia’s parliament this week approved Hadad to head the
board of a national financial regulator due to start operating
in January 2013.  Shares Gain  Danamon shares fell as much as 30 percent to 4,900 rupiah
earlier this month following DBS’s 7,000 rupiah a share offer.
The stock traded 0.9 percent higher at 5,800 rupiah as of 11:08
a.m. in Jakarta after rising as much as 3.5 percent. DBS climbed
0.6 percent to S$13.70, set for the highest since May 15.  The takeover of Danamon would give DBS a 3,000-branch
network of 6 million customers, more than the entire  population 
of Singapore. As Southeast Asia’s largest bank, DBS generates 81
percent of its profit from its home city and  Hong Kong , where
low  interest rates  have squeezed income from lending, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Indonesia’s economy grew 6.46 percent last year, its
fastest rate since the Asian financial crisis began in 1997.  DBS announced on April 2 that it would acquire Danamon in
two transactions, with the first involving swapping its shares
for the  67 percent stake  in Danamon that’s owned by Singapore’s
state-backed investment company Temasek Holdings Pte, which is
also its biggest investor. The Singapore bank will then pay
7,000 rupiah a share for another 32 percent, for a total value
of more than $7 billion.  Biggest Takeover  That would make it the largest takeover of a Southeast
Asian bank, exceeding Singapore-based  United Overseas Bank
Ltd. (UOB) ’s $5.5 billion acquisition of local rival Overseas Union
Bank Ltd. in 2001, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  On April 11, Bank Indonesia, the nation’s central bank,
said it had sent a letter to its counterpart in Singapore
seeking equal access for Indonesian lenders looking to expand in
Singapore. The central bank didn’t specify what kind of access
it was asking for. The Monetary Authority of Singapore has said
its dealings with other regulators are confidential.  Currently only one Indonesian lender,  PT Bank Negara
Indonesia (BBNI) , has a full bank license in Singapore that allows it
to take deposits, make loans, and offer financial advisory
services and insurance broking, among other businesses, data
from the Monetary Authority of Singapore show.  Indonesia currently allows foreigners to own 99 percent of
a bank, a legacy of the Asian financial crisis when the nation’s
economy shrank 13 percent in 1998. The country was forced to
accept a $43 billion International Monetary Fund bailout as its
currency slumped, companies defaulted on debt and more than 80
banks failed or were nationalized or recapitalized.  Bank Indonesia  said on April 27 that it wouldn’t review
DBS’s bid until after it unveils new ownership rules for banks
and also reaches an agreement on access to Singapore. The
central bank also said May 31 it may allow banks to own more
than 40 percent of local lenders provided investors meet a set
of its criteria.  -- With assistance from Berni Moestafa in Jakarta. Editors:
Linus Chua, James Gunsalus  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hidayat Setiaji in Jakarta at 
 hsetiaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net 
Chitra Somayaji at   csomayaji@bloomberg.net  