-- Invensys Said to Weigh Options After Emerson Interest
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-06-21T12:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/invensys-said-to-weigh-options-after-emerson-interest.html
Invensys Plc (ISYS)  said it received an
exploratory takeover approach from  Emerson Electric Co. (EMR)  that
failed to produce an agreement, as the British manufacturer’s
units spanning rail signaling and metering draw interest.  The talks were “highly preliminary” and are no longer
ongoing, the London-based company said in a statement today,
responding to a Bloomberg News report yesterday about an
approach. Invensys dropped as much as 18 percent in London
trading, after surging the most in a decade yesterday.  Invensys has periodically been the subject of takeover
speculation for a decade, having been linked to companies such
as  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering company. While the
company’s automation and railway products are attractive,
Invensys bears the burden of one of the U.K.’s largest pension
obligations, a liability a suitor would need to absorb or sell.  “Invensys could make sense for a number of people,”  Brian Langenberg , an independent analyst who founded Langenberg & Co.
in  Chicago , said by phone prior to Invensys’s statement today.
“It doesn’t surprise me that if it’s in play others are going
to take a look.”  Emerson is chiefly interested in metering unit Foxboro, yet
would consider a bid for the whole company to get the part it
wants, said a person familiar with the situation yesterday, who
declined to be identified as talks are private.  Interest in Units  Advisers to the British company have spoken to potential
suitors including Siemens and  General Electric Co. (GE)  about a sale
of some or all of its operations since Emerson’s approach,
people familiar with the talks said.  Invensys, which can trace its origins back almost 200
years, isn’t currently running an official auction process to
sell itself, said one of the people. It could decide to do so
later, the person said.  While Emerson discussed the takeover of the group, other
expressions of interest have been focused on specific units,
Invensys said.  “The company regularly assesses the value of its portfolio
of businesses both as part of its strategic planning process and
in response to expressions of interest in relation to certain
parts of the group,” Invensys said in the statement.  Invensys surged 28 percent to 257 pence at the close in
London yesterday. That was the biggest one-day jump since 2001,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and erased a drop of
3.8 percent this year through June 19. The shares dropped back
16 percent to 215.1 pence as of 2:34 a.m. today.  More Deals  A deal for all or part of the company would build on
industrial takeovers this quarter led by  Eaton Corp. (ETN) ’s $11.8
billion cash-and-stock agreement to buy electric distribution-
equipment manufacturer  Cooper Industries Plc. (CBE)   ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  also has
said it’s seeking industrial automation targets.  Invensys hired Rothesay Life, a unit of  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , last year to manage its  pension plan  and explore ways to
separate the liabilities from the company, including a sale to
insurers, one of the people said. The net pension liability was
426 million pounds in March, down from 467 million pounds a year
earlier, according to Invensys’s latest annual report. Total
pension obligations were 5.8 billion pounds as of March 31.  Competitive bids for the company may produce offers of
about 350 pence per share, Paul Hopper, an analyst at Investec
Bank Plc in  London , wrote in a note. The valuation may rise
further if the company is sold in parts, he said.  Consolidation  “It has long been mooted to be a break-up candidate but
private-equity buyers, the natural facilitator of such a move,
will have been put off by Invensys’ large pension plan,” Hopper
said.  Emerson, a maker of power-plant and data-center equipment,
has acquired 35 companies in the past decade, paying a median of
11.5 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in deals where terms were disclosed, according to
Heenal Patel, a Bloomberg Industries analyst in London.  In 2010, it beat Zurich-based ABB in a competition to
acquire London-based Chloride Group Plc, Britain’s largest maker
of gear to protect against power failures.  Invensys “would be a good business for Emerson,” said
Langenberg, the Chicago-based analyst. “It would give them more
customers and scale.”  Nick Heymann , a William Blair & Co. analyst in  New York ,
said the pension overhang and loss of market share at Invensys
make such a purchase less vital to Emerson than turning around
its network-power unit, which has been a drag on earnings.  ‘Long Shot’  “I would tend to think this is more of a long shot for
Emerson,” Heymann said in a phone interview before the Invensys
statement. “You’ve got to fix network power before you add more
and more.”  Chief Executive Officer  David Farr  has singled out the
Embedded Computing & Power business, part of the network-power
unit, as needing to improve or be sold. Emerson cut its 2012
 profit forecast  last month, saying  China’s economy  will remain
“softer” than anticipated and that  Europe ’s slump persists.  Emerson fell 2 percent, the most since June 1, to $46.02 at
the close yesterday in New York. The shares have dropped 1.2
percent this year.  Siemens’s main interest is in parts of Invensys, especially
its rail unit, one of the people said. The engineering company,
Europe’s largest, would be interested in a deal once Invensys
offloads its pension liabilities, a person familiar with
Siemens’s strategy said in August. Siemens has refrained from
major purchases recently and is focused on internal growth.  Invensys’s predecessor, Siebe Plc, was founded by a German-
born British engineer named Augustus Siebe in 1819. The company
became Invensys following the acquisition of rival BTR Plc in
1999.  Its two biggest units now are rail systems and operations
management, which sells technology to automate factories and
industrial facilities and helps make them cheaper to run. The
company also provides appliance and climate controls.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  