-- Iron Ore-Shipping Rates Have First Gain in a Month
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-06-20T06:57:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/iron-ore-shipping-rates-have-first-gain-in-a-month-correct-.html
(Corrects to say report was from RS Platou Markets in
fourth paragraph of story published June 19.)  Hire costs for Capesize ships that
transport iron ore and coal rose for the first time in a month,
rebounding from a three-year low on stronger rates for vessels
based in the Atlantic region.  Daily average rates gained 1.3 percent to $3,420, figures
from the London-based Baltic Exchange showed. Hire costs plunged
62 percent from May 18 through yesterday, reaching the lowest
level since December 2008. Charter rates for Capesizes making
return voyages within the Atlantic region led today’s gains,
climbing 4.6 percent to $4,018 a day.  Capesize  earnings  plunged as the fleet’s growth outpaced
demand for raw-materials shipments. Hire costs are 46 percent of
the amount vessel owners need to cover running costs excluding
fuel, according to figures from the exchange and London-based
accounting firm Moore Stephens International.  “We believe the loss-stricken Capesize owners are forced
to consider the options of lay-ups or scrapping to restore any
positive supply-demand balance or else risk a washout summer
ahead,” RS Platou Markets AS, an Oslo-based investment bank,
said in an e-mailed report today. Laying up denotes the idling
of a ship.  Capesizes account for 40 percent of the dry-bulk fleet’s
capacity and are the largest vessels tracked by the  Baltic Dry
Index (BDIY) , which gained for an eighth session, helped by demand for
smaller ships. The measure added 1.7 percent, the most since
April 25, to 954, the exchange’s data showed.  22-Year Low  About three new Capesizes left shipyards every four days in
this year’s first five months as 115 of the ships entered
service, according to figures from  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s
largest shipbroker. Average earnings in 2012 are the lowest in
at least 22 years, its data show.  Earnings for Panamaxes, the largest ships to navigate the
 Panama Canal , are poised to decline as demand weakens, Platou
said. Restocking of imported coal by traders in  China  is easing,
with inventories at ports and power producers at a record after
almost doubling since late April, it said.  Daily average Panamax returns gained 0.9 percent to $8,668
as Supramaxes that carry about 25 percent less cargo rose 2.5
percent to $11,626, exchange data showed. Handysize ships, the
smallest tracked by the index, added 1.8 percent to $9,926.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  