-- Israel Planes Hit Gaza in Third Day of Violence
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n
-- 2012-06-20T15:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/israel-planes-hit-gaza-in-third-day-of-violence.html
Israeli aircraft killed a
Palestinian militant and a teenager in the  Gaza Strip  as rockets
from the Hamas-controlled territory hit  Israel  in the third day
of violence.  About 60 rockets and mortar shells have struck southern
Israel since the fighting started with an attack on the Israeli-
Egyptian border on June 18. Nine Palestinians and one Israeli
have died.  The Israeli army said one of the Palestinians killed today
was an Islamic militant who was behind the border attack. An
accomplice was severely wounded in the strike, the army said.
The second death was a 14-year-old boy whose father was severely
wounded in an Israeli strike, said Gaza emergency services
spokesman Adham Abu Selmeya.  The bloodshed comes as the Muslim Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi claimed victory in  Egypt ’s presidential election, the
first since the overthrow of  Hosni Mubarak  last year.  “There is a link between the heightened tensions between
Gaza and Israel and what looks to be the drift of Egypt to
Islamist rule,” said Jonathan Spyer, a political scientist at
the Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya. “This would be a
strategic change and we can expect a much more tense southern
border than we have seen for many years.”  Israeli leaders including Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  have
voiced concerns about worsening security on the border with
Egypt, which signed a peace treaty with the Jewish state more
than three decades ago. They have also cited links between the
Muslim Brotherhood and Hamas, an Islamic movement that controls
Gaza and is considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the
European Union and the U.S.  ‘Won’t Keep Quiet’  The al-Qassam Brigades, the military wing of Hamas, sent
 text messages  to reporters in Gaza claiming responsibility for
the first time since April 2011 for the firing of rockets and
mortar shells. “We won’t keep quiet in response to Israeli
assaults,” the group said in an e-mailed statement.  “The ongoing escalation in Gaza is just an exchange of
mutual messages between Israel and Hamas,” said Samir Abu
Mdallallah, a political scientist at Gaza’s al-Azhar University.
“Israel wants to tell Hamas that the situation won’t change
even if the Muslim Brotherhood rules Egypt, and Hamas sends a
message to Israel saying that it is still the strongest armed
Palestinian group that can fight Israel anytime.”  Victoria Nuland , spokeswoman for the U.S. Department of
State, urged restraint in a statement late yesterday and
condemned the rocket fire from Gaza “which has dramatically and
dangerously escalated in the past day.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Saud Abu Ramadan in Jerusalem at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  