-- Israel Report on Carmel Fire Blames Finance Minister
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-06-20T13:52:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/israel-report-on-carmel-fire-blames-finance-minister.html
Israeli Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz and Interior Minister Eli Yishai bear “special
responsibility” for the slow response to a forest fire that
killed 44 people, the government’s top watchdog said.  State Comptroller Micha Lindenstrauss stopped short of
calling for firing the two officials today in a report on the
2010 blaze, though he suggested action should be considered by
the government. Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and Public
Security Minister Yitzhak Aharonovitch also should have moved
more quickly to quell the fire, he said.  The fire consumed large swathes of the Carmel Forest in
northern  Israel  and caused the deaths of 37 Prison Service
cadets whose bus was trapped by the flames. Seven others were
killed in the blaze. The 506-page report criticizes Steinitz and
Yishai saying they let budget considerations interfere with the
need for rescue services to be prepared for a large-scale fire.  “When saving human lives from catastrophic events is at
issue, a solution, even a partial one, must be provided,”
Lindenstrauss wrote in the report. “An uncompromising defense
of the comprehensive budgetary framework, justified though it
may be, does not mean that one cannot find a solution within
that very framework.”  ‘Delusional and Baseless’  It was the second time in a month that Netanyahu and his
administration were criticized by Lindenstrauss. A June 13
report blamed the prime minister for a disorganized response to
the breaching of a naval blockade of the  Gaza Strip  by a Turkish
ship in which nine Turkish citizens were killed in fighting with
Israeli commandoes.  The  Finance Ministry  said “the report remains delusional
and baseless in the extreme.”  “The report threatens Israel’s economic stability because
it makes it impossible to uphold the budget law,” the ministry
said in an e-mailed statement.  Netanyahu issued a statement by text message thanking
Lindenstrauss for the report and saying many of the shortcomings
identified in the report have been fixed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  