-- Italy, Spain Head for Bailouts, Fidelity’s Stuttard Says
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-06-21T14:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/italy-spain-heading-for-full-bailouts-fidelity-s-stuttard-says.html
Italy and  Spain , which account for
more than a quarter of the euro-area economy, are heading for
sovereign bailouts in the next 12 months that will send shock
waves through the global economy, Fidelity Investments’s Jamie Stuttard said.  Both sovereigns will likely stumble over debt auctions in
the next year, forcing European authorities to find official
funding for them to hold the single-currency area together,
Stuttard, Fidelity’s head of international bond portfolio
management in London, said in a telephone interview on June 19.  Southern Europe’s two major economies have 2.8 trillion
euros ($3.6 trillion) of government debt, four times the total
of Greece, Portugal and Ireland, threatening to overwhelm
Europe’s crisis defenses. Backstopping them may undermine even
Germany’s creditworthiness unless officials allow inflation to
accelerate to reduce the real value of their borrowing or the
currency weakens boosting exports, Stuttard said.  “We are onto the big countries now,” he said. “A rescue
for  Italy  is pretty much impossible without a major change in
German borrowing costs, a major change in overall euro-zone
levels of inflation, a major change in the level of the euro, or
a major change in the structure of the euro zone.”  Spanish bond yields jumped at an auction in Madrid today
with the government paying 4.706 percent to borrow for two
years, compared with 2.069 percent at a similar auction in
March. Spain’s 10-year yields reached a euro-era record of 7.285
percent on June 18 while Italy’s benchmark yields surged to
6.342 percent on June 14, the most in about five months.  Historical Analysis  The analysis of economic historians such as  Carmen
Reinhart ,  Kenneth Rogoff  and  Niall Ferguson  who have examined
government finances over a longer period is more useful for
understanding the debt crisis than the perspective of some
market analysts who considered the first period of monetary
union through 2007 as the norm, Stuttard said.  “This stuff defaults from time to time,” he said of
government debt. “The idea that it’s risk-free is a relatively
recent construct.”  Stuttard, who joined Fidelity last year from Schroder
Investment Management Ltd., declined to comment on his holdings.
He said he’s “extremely bearish” on the debt of peripheral
governments. Fidelity is the biggest manager of U.S. 401(k)
 retirement plans  and has about $1.6 trillion assets under
management.  Maturing Debt  Italy and Spain will face about 1 trillion euros in
principal and interest payments on their debts through 2014.
European governments are capping fresh rescue lending at 500
billion euros once a permanent bailout fund comes into operation
as planned in July after committing about 300 billion euros to
Greece, Ireland and Portugal.  The  International Monetary Fund  announced this week it has
additional funding commitments of $456 billion giving it $836
billion for lending worldwide. That leaves the pot about 300
billion euros short if Italy and Spain need aid,  Julian Callow ,
head of international economics at Barclays, said in a June 19
e-mail. Spain’s government said June 9 it plans draw as much as
100 billion euros in EU funds to rebuild its banks.  “This is the biggest crisis with which the IMF has ever
had to deal,” Massachusetts Institute of Technology Professor
 Simon Johnson , a former IMF chief economist, said in an e-mail.
“It’s the entire euro zone that is now in crisis -- about a
quarter of the world economy.”  Euro-Bonds  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and his Spanish
counterpart Mariano Rajoy are urging German Chancellor  Angela
Merkel  to allow them to issue bonds backed by all 17 members of
the single currency area in order to place their borrowing costs
on a more sustainable footing. Rajoy also called on the  European
Central Bank  to buy Spanish bonds to lower the nation’s
borrowing costs.  Merkel said on June 3 that “under no circumstances” would
she agree to have  Germany  back so-called euro bonds, while
French President  Francois Hollande  has endorsed the plan.
Germany’s benchmark borrowing costs have jumped 32 basis points
this month after reaching the lowest level since reunification
on June 1.  “How the various different problems are resolved over the
next six to 12 months will have big ramifications for Germany
and France, but also the U.K. and indeed the world,” Stuttard
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  