-- Italians Dodge Property Tax in Test for Monti’s Austerity
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-06-21T14:38:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/italians-openly-dodge-property-tax-in-test-for-monti-s-austerity.html
Luciano Di Pardo, a lawyer in Milan,
is dodging Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s new real estate
tax.  “I didn’t pay it,” Di Pardo, 75, said of the levy that
was the centerpiece of Monti’s austerity budget. “I get that we
are on the edge of failure and disaster, but you can’t keep
taking from ordinary people.”  The new levy, which should have cost Di Pardo about 500
euros ($630) when the first payment was due on June 18, may mark
the limit of how much Monti can squeeze out of taxpayers. The
belt-tightening is also sinking the prospects of Monti’s
supporters in parliament and deepening  Italy ’s  fourth recession 
since 2001.  Italy’s main political parties, which agreed to suspend
their rivalries and back the unelected Monti when he was
appointed in November, have seen their support plummet to the
lowest in about two decades. Soured voters like Di Pardo are
turning to Beppe Grillo, the comic-turned-politician, who called
the euro an “ever-tightening noose” and urged policy makers to
consider default.  The austerity has boosted Monti’s prestige as a deficit
fighter outside of Italy and conferred credibility on his call
for bolder European measures to spur growth. He is hosting a
summit tomorrow in  Rome  where he’ll seek to overcome resistance
from German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  for a collectively financed
stimulus program.  Revenue Measures  The more than 10 billion euros expected to be raised this
year from the tax known as IMU accounted for more than a third
of the revenue measures in the budget Monti pushed through in
December to protect the third-biggest euro economy from the
financial crisis that claimed  Spain  this month. While he has won
praise from European counterparts, investors are still concerned
Italy may need outside help. Benchmark borrowing costs rose to
the highest in almost five months last week with the country’s
10-year bond now yielding 5.7 percent.  The IMU reinstates tax on first homes, a charge that was
terminated four years ago when former Prime Minister  Silvio
Berlusconi  made Italy one of the only large euro-region
countries without such a levy. It also raises the fee on
commercial holdings and vacation properties, and scraps
deductions for landlords who offer rents below market rates.  ‘Profoundly Unfair’  “Taxing primary residences is profoundly unfair,” said
Rossella Ronconi, a 54-year-old who works for a tourism promoter
and owns an apartment in Rome. “It should be an inalienable
right.”  The IMU is deepening resentments because it relies on an
out-of-date public register that understates the value of the
oldest and priciest homes in city centers, according to ASPPI,
an association of property owners. Those with moderate incomes
are also hurt by the elimination of incentives for rent-
controlled leases, said Luca Dondi, head of real estate at
Bologna-based economic-research firm Nomisma SpA.  “The methodology, let’s put it this way, is not fair,”
said ASPPI President  Alfredo Zagatti . “It favors people in
wealthier areas.”  ASPPI organized  petition signing events  on June 16 from
Messina in Sicily to Lecco, situated at the foot of the Alps
north of Milan. Daniela Santanche, a deputy of Berlusconi’s
previous government, urged Italians in a full page newspaper
advertisement on June 2 not to pay the IMU’s first instalment
and pushed the government to repeal the tax.  No Second Term  Monti was president of  Bocconi University  in Milan seven
months ago when he was asked by President Giorgio Napolitano to
form a government following Berlusconi’s resignation. Monti, a
former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. adviser and European Union
competition commissioner, has said he won’t try to seek a second
term when elections are held next year.  His reliance on tax increases to tame Italy’s 2 trillion-
 euro debt  load may be putting the parties supporting him in a
bind as they brace for an election campaign.  Backing for the  Democratic Party  and center-right People of
Liberty Party dropped this month to the lowest since
Berlusconi’s first electoral victory in 1994, according to
Maurizio Pessato, vice president of pollster SWG Institute. The
governing coalition, which scored more than 77 percent in polls
at inception, is down to about 49 percent.  Grillo’s Rise  With both main parties backing the government, disaffected
voters are turning to voices that were previously marginal.
Support for Grillo’s 5 Star Movement surged to 21 percent from
about 11 percent last month, according to a poll released June
15 by Trieste, Italy-based SWG.  Property taxes accounted for about  4.4 percent  of Italy’s
receipts in 2010, down from 5.2 percent in 2009. In  France , the
contribution was 7.9 percent in 2009 and 8.1 percent in 2010.
Total Italian tax receipts were about 42.3 percent of gross
domestic product in 2010, greater than the 38.9 percent weighted
average of the 17 countries that share the euro, according to
 statistics  from the European Commission. That tax bite is due to
top 45 percent this year.  Under IMU, the government set rates of 0.4 percent of
registered value for primary residences and 0.76 percent for
second homes and certain classes of commercial real estate.
Municipalities may add as much as 20 basis points to the primary
home rate and 30 basis points for second homes to boost their
local budgets. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percent.  Deepening Recession  “It’s not a huge amount,” said Dario Castiglia, chief
executive officer of real estate broker RE/MAX Italia, which has
about 200 agencies in Italy. “It’s just that Italians were used
to not having any taxes for three years, and also it’s hitting
home right when we’re in the middle of perhaps one of the worst
recessions in decades.”  Home sales fell the most in eight years in the first
quarter. Italy’s economic growth has lagged the euro-area
average for more than a decade and will contract 1.4 percent
this year, according to a forecast by the European Commission.  Di Pardo, the Milan lawyer, faces a second IMU instalment
of at least 500 euros on his Milan home later this year and said
he may eventually pay his full dues, with the required late fees.
Still, he has a message for Monti.  “I’m not convinced I’ll pay,” Di Pardo said. “I want to
do what I can against this unfair tax.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  