-- Itau Joins Slim in Argentine Oil Business After YPF Loan Default
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-06-20T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/itau-joins-slim-in-argentine-oil-business-after-ypf-loan-default.html
Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) , Latin
America’s biggest bank by market value, took a stake in  YPF SA (YPF) ,
joining billionaire  Carlos Slim  in the Argentine oil company’s
shareholder register as part of a syndicated loan settlement.  Itau Unibanco SA - Grand Cayman Branch acquired a 3.6
percent YPF shareholding on June 12, the Buenos Aires-based
company said yesterday in a regulatory filing.  Itau, based in  Sao Paulo , was among banks that received YPF
shares as collateral after a loan default by Argentina’s
Eskenazi family, operators of YPF before the Argentine
government’s seizure of the company in April. The Eskenazi-owned
Petersen Group had used YPF dividends to meet obligations until
defaulting in May on a $1 billion loan.  “The acquirer doesn’t intend to obtain a greater holding
or take control of the company,” YPF said in yesterday’s
filing, citing a letter from the Itau unit.  Argentina took 51 percent of YPF from  Repsol SA (REP)  in April as
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s government seeks to
halt declining oil output and stem fuel imports that doubled to
$9.4 billion last year. The government opposed YPF dividends.
Before the defaults the Eskenazis owned 25 percent of YPF.  Slim’s bank and a separate investment vehicle control 32.9
million of YPF’s Class D shares, or an 8.4 percent stake, YPF
said in a June 14 filing. Slim hasn’t decided whether to keep
the stake, his son Carlos Slim Domit, co-chairman of  America
Movil SAB (AMXL) , said in an interview in Los Cabos,  Mexico .  Share Rebound  YPF has soared since Slim’s stake was disclosed, climbing
15 percent over the past three days to 78.50 pesos in  Buenos
Aires  yesterday, reducing a slump this year to 53 percent. The
ADRs rose 3.3 percent to $11.77 yesterday.  The Argentine government, which said Repsol under invested
since it acquired YPF in 1999, wants to tap shale reserves that
may hold at least 23 billion barrels of oil equivalent in the
country’s south.  YPF, Argentina’s largest oil producer, will invest $7
billion in 2013 as it plans to double exploration in five years
and boost refining, Chief Executive Officer Miguel Galuccio said
June 6. The company targets investments of $1.2 billion in shale
oil next year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  