-- Ivory Coast Cocoa Growers Risk Attacks in Return to Farms
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2012-06-20T10:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/ivory-coast-cocoa-growers-risk-attacks-in-return-to-farms.html
Cocoa farmers in western  Ivory Coast 
who fled recent attacks on their villages are beginning to
return to the plantations, fearing their beans may be stolen or
damaged, according to growers in the area.  “I’m afraid of the attacks but I had no choice but to come
back to take care of my farm,” said Salam Zongo, a farmer with
a four-hectare (9.9-acre) plantation in Saho, a village attacked
on June 8. Seven United Nations peacekeepers, one Ivorian
soldier and at least 10 civilians were killed in the ambushes.  The fighting near Ivory Coast’s border with Liberia is
extending a decade of conflict in the world’s top cocoa
producer, which started with a mutinous uprising of soldiers in
2002 that left the country divided between a rebel-held north
and a government-controlled south. At least 3,000 people were
killed in five months of violence that followed a disputed
election in November 2010.  The armed group behind this month’s attacks has a base on
the Liberian side of the Cavally River that serves as a border
between the two countries, according to Losseni Fofana, the army
commander in charge of security in western Ivory Coast. The
group comprises Ivorian militia members and Liberian
mercenaries, he said this week, following a June 17 clash
between Ivorian soldiers and Liberian gunmen.  As many as 2,730 displaced people are in the town of Tai
and 7,000 have taken refuge in Para, according to an e-mailed
statement yesterday from the UN’s Office for the Coordination of
Humanitarian Affairs.  “A timid return has been observed in the past few days,”
Anouk Desgroseilliers, a spokeswoman for office, said in an
interview in Tai. “People are still moving a lot.”  Stolen Crop  Farmer Lamine Ouedraogo left his six-hectare cocoa farm on
June 9 and took refuge at his brother’s home in Tai. “The
harvest may be stolen or may have deteriorated, but I don’t see
myself or my family returning,” he said in an interview. “It’s
too dangerous.”  Ivory Coast’s cocoa farmers are reaping their light, or
mid-season crop, which produces smaller beans than the October-
to-May main harvest. Cocoa for July delivery fell 0.2 percent to
1,536 pounds ($2,415) a metric ton by 11:24 a.m. on the NYSE
Liffe exchange in  London .  “A lot of camps of farmers are still totally empty,” said
Alassane Sogodogo, manager of a cocoa cooperative based in Para.
“If the security issue is not fixed soon, it may also endanger
the harvest as some farmers may not come back,” he said.  Troop Reinforcement  Some refugees have had to move locations as many as six
times in the past 10 months, said Jocelyn Brousseau, the Danish
Refugee Council’s coordinator in western Ivory Coast.  “They’re divided between their will to go back to keep
working on their farms and risk their lives,” he said in an
interview yesterday.  Ivory Coast’s army, the Forces Republicaines de Cote
d’Ivoire, have reinforced its troop numbers in the area, the
military’s Fofana said on June 18 in an interview in Para.  “Ivorian and Liberian authorities need to step up the
cooperation of our armies along the border to secure the
region,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  