-- Mizuho Financial Agrees to Acquire WestLB Brazilian Unit
-- B y   J a m e s   G u n s a l u s   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2012-06-20T08:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/mizuho-financial-agrees-to-acquire-westlb-brazilian-operations.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , Japan’s
third-biggest bank by market value, agreed to buy WestLB AG’s
Brazil unit to tap demand for infrastructure related financing.  The purchase of Banco WestLB do Brasil from Dusseldorf-
based WestLB is pending regulatory approval, Mizuho said in a
statement on its website. The Tokyo-based bank didn’t disclose
terms of the transaction.  Mizuho and bigger rivals  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. (8306)  and  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  aim to gain market
share abroad from European competitors selling global assets to
cope with the region’s debt crisis. Japanese lenders are looking
to higher-yielding markets to make up for declining
profitability on  domestic loans  as  interest rates  tumble.  Banco WestLB do Brasil had total assets valued at about
$1.5 billion at the end of December and employs about 66 people,
mainly involved with wholesale banking, Mizuho said in the
statement.  For the deal with WestLB, Mizuho offered about 30 billion
yen ($380 million) for the unit, national broadcaster NHK
reported earlier.  Today’s agreement follows remarks made Mizuho Chief
Executive Officer  Yasuhiro Sato  on June 4 in Istanbul
reiterating the Japanese bank’s push to expand business
overseas. Sato added that Mizuho also aims to get a bank license
in Turkey, where it is advising on a 420-kilometer (261-mile)
highway project, or acquire a stake in a Turkish bank.  Shares of the Japanese bank rose 1.6 percent to close at
128 yen at the 3 p.m. close of  Tokyo  Stock Exchange trading. The
stock has advanced 23 percent this year, outpacing a 6.6 percent
increase in the benchmark 84-stock Topix Banks Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Gunsalus in Tokyo at 
 jgunsalus@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  