-- J&J’s Vaginal Sling Cuts Incontinence Risk After Surgery
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-06-21T20:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/j-j-s-vaginal-sling-cuts-incontinence-risk-after-surgery.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s vaginal sling,
used to support the urethra after surgery to treat weakened
pelvic muscles, cuts in half a women’s risk of subsequently
developing incontinence, a  study  found.  About 1 in 5 women need surgery to fix bulges and
complications caused when the pelvic muscles weaken and allow
organs such as the bladder and uterus to fall into the vagina.
The procedure to add the sling, a smaller version of the J&J
mesh used to support organs, lifts the bladder and relieves
pressure to prevent incontinence that develops in one-quarter to
half of women after the surgery, researchers said.  The study results, published in the  New England Journal of
Medicine , show that implanting a sling at the time of surgery
cuts the risk of incontinence or the need for future surgery.
The slings were linked to bleeding, infections and bladder
perforations, though not the debilitating defects found with the
larger vaginal mesh products, the researchers said.  “There have been two schools of thought: put in a sling as
a preventive measure when we put the bladder back up, or wait
until there is a problem and then fix it,” often with surgery,
said lead researcher John Wei, a professor of  urology  at the
 University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor . “What we found is that by
putting in a sling, the risk of having leakage is halved.”  J&J declined less than 1 percent, to $66.39 at the close in
 New York .  Study Results  The study involved 337 women who were slated for surgery to
treat a pelvic organ prolapse. Half were treated with the
 Gynecare TVT  sling, made by  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based
J&J’s Ethicon unit, and half were given “sham” incisions that
mimicked those in the women treated with a sling. After three
months, 23.6 percent of women with the sling and 49.4 percent of
women in the sham group had urinary incontinence or were treated
for the condition.  The benefits lasted for the full year the women were
followed and they will outweigh the risks for most patients, Wei
said in a telephone interview. There was no difference in
serious or unexpected dangers between the two groups, though
women getting the sling were more likely to experience common
side effects seen with treatment for urinary leakage, he said.  Almost 7 percent of women getting a sling and none in the
sham group experienced a bladder perforation, the study found.
The perforation can result from a needle used to place the
device puncturing the bladder, and it often clears up on its
own, Wei said. Thirty-one percent of women in the sling group
and 18.3 percent in the sham group had urinary tract infections.  Study Funding  The study was funded by the U.S.  National Institute of
Child Health and Human Development  and the National Institutes
of Health Office of Research on Women’ Health. J&J wasn’t
involved in the study and didn’t provide funding or the devices
used.  J&J’s Ethicon unit has been sued by more than 600 women
claiming vaginal mesh devices used to support falling organs
were defective and caused internal injuries. The company told a
federal judge in  West Virginia  earlier this month that it
intends to stop selling four vaginal mesh implants worldwide.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  in January asked J&J
and 30 other makers of vaginal mesh implants to study organ
damage and other health complications blamed on the products.  The vaginal slings used in the current study and vaginal
mesh are different products and don’t carry the same risks,
wrote  Cheryl Iglesia , from Georgetown University School of
Medicine in  Washington , D.C., in an editorial. An FDA advisory
panel that Iglesia served on concluded the slings were safe and
effective, while more study was needed on the vaginal mesh.  Incontinence Signs  Women who show signs of incontinence before surgery will
most likely benefit from a sling, Iglesia wrote. For others, the
doctor and patient must weigh a much-less predictable ratio of
benefits and risks, taking into account the goals of treatment
and the surgeon’s ability, she wrote.  “The study found that inserting the bladder sling may lead
to complications,” said Susan F. Meikle, program director of
the NICHD-funded Pelvic Floor Disorders Network. “Although
these complications can be treated, it may also make sense to
wait for symptoms to appear before inserting the bladder
sling,” she said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  