-- Topix Rises to Month High on Trade Report, Stimulus Bets
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 2012-06-20T06:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/japan-stocks-rise-on-optimism-fed-china-to-add-stimulus.html
Japanese  stocks  advanced, with the
Topix Index reaching a month high, as the country’s imports and
exports exceeded estimates, signaling stronger demand, and as
investors speculated central banks globally may do more to boost
economic growth.  Sony Corp. (6758) , a consumer electronics company that gets more
than 65 percent of revenue outside Japan, gained 3.5 percent.
 Daio Paper Corp. (3880)  surged after a Nikkei newspaper report that
Hokuetsu Kishu Paper Co. will buy a 20 percent stake.  Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  fell 3.1 percent after U.S. regulators
found excessive wear at a shut nuclear plant in  California  that
the company designed generators for.  The Topix advanced 1.7 percent to 747.34 at 3 p.m. in  Tokyo ,
the highest close since May 15. All 33 industry groups in the
index climbed. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  rose 1.1 percent to
8,752.31, with volume 11 percent lower than the 30-day average.
Japan reported a 10 percent gain in exports for May, beating
estimates for a 9.7 percent rise.  “I did not expect that exports were this strong given the
current world economic situation,” said Takao Goto, a market
analyst at SBI Securities Co.,  Japan ’s biggest online security
brokerage firm. “The strong exports were led by the automobile
sector, the biggest industry in Japan, so the positive influence
on the Japanese economy would be large.”  The Topix has fallen 14 percent from this year’s peak on
March 27 as  China ’s growth slowed and on concern  Europe ’s debt
crisis is spreading. Shares on the index are valued at 0.88
times book value. A number below one means a company can be
bought for less than the value of its assets.  Operation Twist  Signs of slowing growth amid Europe’s debt crisis could
mean the U.S.  Federal Reserve , which began a two-day meeting
yesterday, will extend its so-called Operation Twist, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co., Jefferies & Co. The program involves
selling short-term debt and buying longer-term bonds.  “Expectations are building that the Fed will take some
kind of action,” said Yoshihisa Okamoto, who helps oversee the
equivalent of $34 billion at Mizuho Asset Management Co. “I
don’t think there will be another round of quantitative easing,
but I think they’ll extend Operation Twist. China has shifted
toward an easing posture except in the real estate sector.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent
today. The gauge advanced 1 percent yesterday and closed at its
highest in more than a month as analysts at JPMorgan, Jefferies
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. speculated the Federal Reserve will
move to spur growth.  Stocks also advanced after euro-area leaders at the Group
of 20 summit in  Mexico  pledged to “take all necessary policy
measures” to defend the currency union and boost protection of
the region’s struggling banks, according to a statement.  Sony climbed 3.5 percent to 1,103 yen.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,
Asia’s biggest automaker, increased 1.2 percent to 3,050 yen.  China Policy  Adding to speculation for more global stimulus was a report
that China’s fiscal policy should be “ proactive” to sustain
faster growth, according to the  China Daily , which cited a
proposal from the Chinese People’s Political Consultative
Conference National Committee.  Daio Paper soared 7.2 percent to 445 yen. The papermaker
said it’s in talks with Hokuetsu Kishu on investment but
“nothing concrete” was decided. The Nikkei earlier that
Hokuetsu was eyeing a 20 percent stake in its competitor.
Hokuetsu climbed 3.3 percent to 402 yen.  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum yesterday
climbed 1 percent to the highest close since May 29.  Mitsui & Co. gained 1.8 percent to 1,166 yen.  Mitsubishi
Corp. (8058) , Japan’s top commodities trader by revenue, added 2
percent to 1,564 yen.  Mitsubishi Heavy declined the most in the Nikkei 225 after
U.S. federal regulators reported faulty computer analysis and
manufacturing changes appear to have caused excessive wear in
steam generator tubes at a nuclear plant in California.
Mitsubishi Heavy, which built the generators and provided
computer simulation software, lost 3.1 percent to 313 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  