-- Europe Debt Crisis Restrains Rebound in Japan’s Exports: Economy
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-06-20T07:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/japan-trade-deficit-exceeds-forecasts-as-energy-costs-swell-1-.html
Japan  reported its first trade
deficit with the European Union since the  Finance Ministry  began
tracking data in 1979 as the debt crisis roiling Spain and
 Greece  limits a rebound in Japanese exports.  An overall  shortfall  of 907.3 billion yen ($11.5 billion)
for May, reported today in Tokyo, was bigger than all 24
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Exports rose
10 percent from a year earlier, the most in 17 months, while
imports exceeded estimates. The  trade gap  with the EU was 11.1
billion yen.  Shipments to the EU fell 0.9 percent even as they surged 38
percent to the U.S., underscoring the threat to Japan’s recovery
as Group of 20 leaders meeting in Mexico press  Europe  to step up
damage control. Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said today that
Europe poses the biggest risk as his nation’s economy returns to
the path of “moderate recovery.”  “The Bank of Japan must be closely monitoring markets as
high uncertainties remain in Europe,” said  Yuichi Kodama , chief
economist at Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co. in Tokyo. They’ve
indicated they will act “in a timely manner if markets are
roiled and the yen gets much stronger.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and BNP Paribas SA say Shirakawa’s
policy makers may add to easing in July after standing pat this
month as they watched efforts to contain Greek and Spanish
fiscal and banking woes.  The  Bank of Japan  should be ready to “take appropriate
actions without ruling out any options in advance” should the
European crisis worsen, some board members said in May,
according to minutes released today.  BOJ Nominees  The upper house of parliament today approved Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda ’s appointees to the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s board,
confirming two economists who have indicated support for loose
monetary policy. The pair are Takahide Kiuchi of Nomura
Securities Co. and Takehiro Sato of Morgan Stanley MUFG
Securities Co.  The upper house blocked BNP Paribas SA economist  Ryutaro
Kono ’s nomination in April after some lawmakers said he wasn’t
aggressive enough in favoring stimulus. The central bank is
under pressure from politicians to stoke growth and defeat more
than a decade of deflation even after boosting its asset-
purchase fund by 20 trillion yen ($253 billion) this year.  “This will add voices for additional monetary easing to
the BOJ board as they have shown support for further actions,”
said  Koji Ochiai , Tokyo-based chief market economist at Mizuho
Investors Securities Co., a primary dealer.  The 9.3 percent gain in Japan’s imports exceeded analysts’
median forecast of 3.3 percent, while exports compared with a
9.7 percent estimate. Outbound shipments rebounded from the
slump a year earlier that followed the earthquake and tsunami
that devastated north-eastern regions.  Focus on Fed  Asian stocks rose and the dollar held losses today amid
speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will consider further
stimulus measures when it concludes its meeting today. The MSCI
Asia Pacific Index gained 1 percent.  The yen traded at 78.91 per dollar as of 4:08 p.m. in
 Tokyo , compared with a post-World War II high of 75.35 in
October. The currency has strengthened about 6 percent from this
year’s low in mid-March, trimming exporters’ overseas sales.  Euro-area leaders at the G-20 summit pledged to take “all
necessary policy measures” to defend the currency union as
Spain grapples with a banking crisis.  In the U.K, the  Bank of England  will today publish minutes
of a June 6-7 policy meeting, showing how officials voted when
they kept their bond-purchase target unchanged. Labor market
data is due in the U.K. and the U.S.  Risks for Japan  The BOJ minutes showed some members’ concern that the
Japanese economy “would be adversely affected if a substantial
risk materialized, stemming from the European debt problem.”  The euro region economy is “likely to remain sluggish for
the time being” because of austerity measures and “relatively
tight financial conditions,” board members agreed.  Japan’s trade deficit in May exceeded a median estimate for
a 544.4 billion yen shortfall as nuclear plant shutdowns in the
aftermath of the disaster and nuclear crisis in March last year
lead to increased imports of liquefied natural gas and coal.  The nation’s trade deficit in the first five months of 2012
has already exceed that for the whole of last year. The
shortfall from January through May was 2.97 trillion yen,
compared to 2.56 trillion yen in 2011, government data showed.  On June 16, Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda approved the
restart of two reactors at  Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503) ’s Ohi
nuclear plant in a move that may bring atomic power back to the
country next month, helping trim the import bill.  ‘Long-Term Shifts’  “Trade deficits are likely to continue,” Kodama said.
“Resuming a few reactors won’t be enough to make it a
surplus.”  The yen will weaken against the dollar as Japan continues
to report trade shortfalls, according to Robert Sinche, global
head of currency strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.  “This is one of those big, long-term shifts,” Sinche said
yesterday in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “It was coming anyway because
of the aging population and the outsourcing of production, but
it’s really been accelerated by their nuclear accident and the
need to now import fossil fuels.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  