-- Job Growth May Fizzle in U.S. as Productivity Gains: Economy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-06-20T21:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/job-growth-may-fizzle-in-u-s-as-productivity-rebounds-economy.html
The  U.S. economy  may be on the cusp
of a pickup in productivity that will make it more difficult for
Federal Reserve policy makers to reduce unemployment.  After cooling throughout last year, worker  output per hour 
will probably rise at around 1.5 percent, in line with its long-
run trend, according to economists like Ellen Zentner and  Robert Gordon . That means the lower-than-forecast payroll gains in May
and April may be closer to the norm than the exception for the
rest of the year as companies redouble efforts to improve
efficiency.  Payrolls will grow between 80,000 and 120,000 per month,
less than this year’s 165,000 average, even as the economy
expands by about the same 2 percent, estimates Zentner, a senior
economist at Nomura Securities International Inc. Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  earlier this year aired his concern that hiring
will subside without faster economic growth.  “As the rate of productivity normalizes, businesses won’t
need to hire as many workers,” said New York-based Zentner.
“The level of job growth we’ve been getting over the past few
months is probably pretty normal.”  The Fed said today it will expand its program to replace
short-term bonds with longer-term debt by $267 billion through
the end of the year in a bid to reduce unemployment and protect
the expansion.  ‘Twist’ Extended  The continuation of Operation Twist “should put downward
pressure on longer-term  interest rates  and help to make broader
financial conditions more accommodative,” the  Federal Open
Market Committee  said in a statement at the conclusion of a two-
day meeting in Washington.  Stocks fell after the Fed reduced its estimates for growth.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.2 percent to 1,355.69
at the close in  New York .  Elsewhere today, the Monetary Policy Committee of the  Bank
of England  voted to keep its bond-buying target at 325 billion
pounds ($511 billion). The 5-4 decision put BOE Governor  Mervyn
King , who sought to boost stimulus as jobless claims rise and
the risk from  Europe ’s debt crisis grows, in the minority for
the first time since 2009.  Japan  reported its first trade deficit with the European
Union since the  Finance Ministry  began tracking data in 1979 as
the debt crisis limited a rebound in Japanese exports.  Employment Cools  Employers in the U.S. added 69,000 workers to payrolls in
May, the least in a year, lowering the average pace of  job
creation  in 2012 to about 165,000, figures from the Labor
Department show. Zentner projected a 95,000 increase, the
second-lowest in a Bloomberg News survey of 87 economists, after
taking into account a rebound in productivity.  The  jobless rate  last month climbed to 8.2 percent from
April’s 8.1 percent. It has held above 8 percent for 40
consecutive months, the longest stretch of such elevated levels
in the post-World War II era.  An uptick in efficiency would mark a reversal from last
year and early 2011, when companies expanded payrolls even as
economic growth cooled. Worker output per hour rose 0.4 percent
in the year to March, compared with an average 2.5 percent gain
in the six-year expansion that ended in December 2007.  Labor costs adjusted for productivity rose 1.8 percent in
2011, the most in three years.  The slowdown in productivity and increase in expenses
occurred as companies brought headcounts in line with demand,
correcting over-aggressive firings during the 2007-2009
recession, Gordon, a professor at  Northwestern University  in
Evanston,  Illinois , who’s researched the ebb and flow of U.S.
productivity, said in an e-mail.  Productivity Trend  Productivity growth will return to a trend of 1.2 percent
to 1.4 percent per year, which means job creation will be slower
for any given pace of economic growth in the next year or two
compared with 2010 or 2011, projected Gordon, also a member of
the National Bureau of Economic Research committee that
determines when recessions begin and end.  His view echoes comments Bernanke made earlier this year
during a speech that explored the reasons behind last year’s
drop in unemployment. At the time of his speech, average job
growth in the six months through February had been the strongest
in almost six years. Meanwhile, gross domestic product had
advanced 1.7 percent in 2011, almost half the pace of 2010.  “What we may be seeing now is the flip side of the fear-
driven layoffs that occurred during the worst part of the
recession, as firms have become sufficiently confident to move
their workforces into closer alignment with the expected demand
for their products,” Bernanke said before the National
Association for Business Economics on March 26.  Bernanke’s View  “To the extent that this reversal has been completed,
further significant improvements in the  unemployment rate  will
likely require a more-rapid expansion of production and demand
from consumers and business, a process that can be supported by
continued accommodative policies,” he said.  Companies will probably strive for bigger gains in
efficiency to maintain profit growth, which has slowed in recent
months, said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in New York. Corporate profits rose 6.5 percent in
the first quarter from the same time in 2011, the smallest year-
to-year gain since the recession ended in mid-2009, Commerce
Department data show.  “We had some slow productivity over the past few quarters,
which for a while meant greater hiring, but that has apparently
pressured margins and profits to the extent where now companies
are starting to pull back,” Feroli said. The slowdown in
employment and capital spending suggests a move “a little bit
toward more caution,” he said.  Productivity Focus  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  wrapped up the bulk of its plans to enlarge
its sales force in the past fiscal year and will focus on making
those new workers more productive,  Mark Hurd , co-president of
the world’s second-largest software maker, said during a June 18
earnings call.  “We are working to increase the productivity as we
assimilate those people into the organization this year,” Hurd
said. “We will still have adds in fiscal year 2013, but most of
the hard work was done” a year earlier.  While the productivity gains will reduce the need for labor
in the short term, they will help create jobs in the future by
enlarging the economy’s potential for growth, said  Dean Maki ,
New York-based chief U.S. economist at Barclays Plc and a former
Fed economist.  “The old saying is a steam shovel replaces a hundred men
digging with spoons,” Maki said. “You wouldn’t want to go back
to a hundred men digging with spoons just to increase job
growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  