-- JPMorgan House Hearing, EU Lending, Universal: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-06-20T12:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/jpmorgan-house-hearing-eu-nation-lending-universal-compliance.html
U.S. House members criticized
regulators yesterday for failing to detect  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s loss of at least $2 billion on risky derivatives trades
and pressed for additional measures to ensure similar losses
don’t occur in other banks.  The heads of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency,
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., the Securities and Exchange
Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission, along with
a senior Federal Reserve official offered testimony about the
loss at a  House Financial Services Committee  hearing in
Washington.  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon, who began his
testimony later, described the loss as “embarrassing.”  Lawmakers pressed regulators to explain how they monitored
activities U.S. banks conduct overseas. The trades that
triggered JPMorgan’s loss were conducted in London, potentially
beyond the reach of U.S. derivatives regulators.  Dimon defended the company’s disclosures of a $2 billion
trading loss as regulators and lawmakers questioned whether the
largest U.S. bank misled investors.  “We disclosed what we knew when we knew it,” Dimon,
making his second appearance on Capitol Hill in less than a
week, said yesterday at a House Financial Services Committee
hearing in  Washington  that exceeded four hours.  Comptroller Thomas J. Curry said his agency is reviewing
its staffing inside JPMorgan’s London operations in the wake of
the loss. SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  told lawmakers that
JPMorgan could pay a penalty if the agency concludes that the
bank improperly disclosed the risk that contributed to the loss.
The SEC has a “wide panoply” of sanctions and penalties at its
disposal in pursuing a case against JPMorgan and the bank could
pay penalties if investigators find that it has violated
disclosure or other rules, Schapiro said.  Scott Alvarez , the Fed’s general counsel, said the central
bank is reviewing JPMorgan’s risk management practices.  Still, regulators didn’t provide new information about the
loss and lawmakers used the hearing to reprise the broader
debate over financial regulation. Committee Chairman  Spencer
Bachus  pointed to the regulators bunched at the witness table as
an example of the continued complexity of financial oversight.  Dimon’s opening  statement  was nearly identical to his
remarks in front of the Senate Banking Committee last week.
During that hearing, Dimon apologized for the losses and said he
felt “terrible” that shareholders would lose money because of
the chief investment office’s trading strategy.  Dimon also said that Congress should limit the
international reach of Dodd-Frank Act swaps regulations. In
addition, Dimon said that district banks of the Federal Reserve
benefit by having industry leaders’ input. Dimon has been
criticized by lawmakers for serving on the board of the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York.  Yesterday’s hearing was the first held by the House on the
trading losses, which have drawn inquiries from the SEC, CFTC
and Department of Justice.  The SEC’s review of JPMorgan’s trading loss has focused on
how JPMorgan disclosed a change to a complicated risk
calculation. When companies disclose their “value at risk” or
VaR, they “must speak truthfully and completely,” Schapiro
said.  Lawmakers on the House committee, much like those on its
Senate counterpart, have benefited from JPMorgan’s campaign
donations.  For more, click here, and click here, and click here.  For part 1 of Dimon testimony video, click here.  For part 2 of Dimon testimony video, click here.  For video of agency leaders, click here.  JPMorgan Hedges Were Really Prop Trades, Whitney Says  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s $2 billion trading loss stemmed from
profit-seeking bets rather than hedges meant to mitigate loan
losses, as Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  has described
them, banking analyst  Meredith Whitney  said.  Whitney made the remarks yesterday in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt as the
bank chief testified at a hearing of the House Financial
Services Committee in Washington. “A credit hedge in banking
should be a loan-loss provision, plain and simple. Anything else
is a proprietary bet.”  Whitney, 42, also disputed Dimon’s claim that bank
regulation may curb lending.  For more, click here.  Himes Asks Why No One Knew About JPMorgan Trading Loss  U.S. Representative James Himes, a Connecticut Democrat and
a member of the House Financial Services Committee, talked about
yesterday’s testimony to the panel by JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief
Executive Officer Jamie Dimon about the bank’s $2 billion
trading loss.  Himes spoke with Betty Liu and  Peter Cook  on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop.”  For the video, click here.  Schweikert Says Dimon Did ‘Pretty Good Job’ at Hearing  U.S. Representative David Schweikert, an Arizona Republican
and member of the House Financial Services Committee, talked
about JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon’s
testimony before the panel yesterday about the bank’s $2 billion
trading loss.  He talked with Peter Cook on Bloomberg Television’s
“Bottom Line.”  For the video, click here.  Arthur Levitt Says Dimon Hearing Only ‘Theater’  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, talked about JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief
Executive Officer Jamie Dimon ’s testimony before the Senate
Banking Committee yesterday.  Levitt, who spoke with  Stephanie Ruhle  and  Erik Schatzker 
on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Movers,” also discussed
regulations and the outlook for the banking industry.  For the video, click here.  House’s Frank Says JPMorgan Losses Show Need for Swaps Oversight  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s trading loss of at least $2 billion
strengthens the argument against Republican efforts to cut the
budget of the U.S. derivatives regulator and ease Dodd-Frank Act
swaps rules, said Representative  Barney Frank .  Frank said that if a “very well-run bank” can sustain a
loss of this size, “it’s an indication of the problems with
derivatives.” Frank, a Massachusetts lawmaker, is the senior
Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee. He made the
remarks at a hearing yesterday looking into the bank’s trading.  The House Agriculture Committee last month postponed a
committee meeting to vote on measures limiting the international
reach of the 2010 regulatory-overhaul law’s swaps regulations
and allow more derivatives trading to occur in federally insured
banks. Financial Services approved the same legislation in
March, before JPMorgan’s derivatives losses were disclosed.  Compliance Policy  U.K. to Give Shareholders Votes on Top Pay, Boost Disclosure  Public companies in the U.K. will have to give shareholders
binding votes on executive-pay structures every three years,
Business Secretary Vince Cable told lawmakers.  Other measures in the package, to take effect in October
2013, will require companies to publish a single figure for what
each director is paid in total, their pension entitlement and a
chart comparing the company’s performance and the chief
executive officer’s pay. When directors leave, the company will
have to publish “promptly” a statement of their payoff.  A study last year by the High Pay Commission, a pressure
group that pushes for curbs on top earners, found British
directors’ salaries increased by 64 percent over the past
decade, while the average year-end share price of FTSE 100
companies fell 71 percent. The average annual bonus for
directors rose 187 percent, according to the panel.  “There is compelling evidence of a disconnect between pay
and performance in large U.K.-listed companies,” Cable said in
a statement to Parliament today. “It is right that the
government acts to address this clear market failure.”  Cable said he hoped that having votes on pay structures
every three years, rather than annually, will encourage longer-
term thinking. If a company changes its structures, it’ll be
forced to have a fresh vote.  The moves, which will be implemented through amendments to
the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Bill currently before
Parliament, are aimed partly at ending “golden goodbye”
packages for departing executives, often criticized as rewards
for failure. The policy on exit payments will be part of the
package that shareholders vote on, and companies won’t be able
to go beyond it.  Developing Economies Warn of Damage From Basel, Volcker Rules  Global regulators are being urged by some developing
countries to amend plans that would force  banks  to boost their
capital and liquid assets, expressing concerns the measures may
harm their economies.  A survey of developing and emerging economies conducted by
the  Financial Stability Board  revealed concerns that the
measures, drawn up in the wake of the 2008 collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., “could have adverse consequences and
may ultimately impact the development of domestic financial
markets in those countries.”  The nations are also concerned that U.S. proposals to ban
commercial banks from proprietary trading, known as the Volcker
Rule, may damage their “government, corporate securities and
derivatives markets,” the FSB said in the report, submitted
yesterday to a meeting of the Group of 20 nations in Los Cabos,
Mexico, and published on the FSB’s website. It didn’t name the
countries included in the survey.  Regulators and lenders have clashed over how to implement
the international bank-capital and liquidity standards, which
are set to become fully effective in 2019.  Specific concerns named in the report include that the new
rules might make it more expensive for lenders to provide so-
called trade finance services, the FSB said. There is also a
more general concern lenders will scale back activities outside
their core markets, the board said.  EU Lawmakers Seek to Scrap Credit-Ratings Rotation Plan  European Union lawmakers voted to scrap most of a proposal
to force businesses to rotate the credit-ratings company they
hire to assess their debt, while backing tighter restrictions on
sovereign-debt ratings.  The  European Parliament ’s economic and monetary affairs
committee voted yesterday in Brussels to scale back the proposed
rotation requirement so that it would apply only to
securitizations and other kinds of so-called structured finance.
The stance brings the Parliament’s position largely into line
with that of EU national governments, which must also approve
the new rules proposed by the bloc’s regulators last year.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s regulatory arm,
proposed the rotation rule last year as part of a draft law to
toughen regulation of the ratings industry amid concerns that
some of its decisions exacerbated the euro-area debt crisis. The
commission said rotation would boost competition and solve
potential conflicts of interest.  Under the commission’s original rotation proposal,
companies would have been obliged to change the company that
they pay to rate their credit every three years.  Parliament and national governments must now begin
discussions on a final compromise bill before the legislation
can become law.  For more, click here.  EU Nations Said to Be Split Over Lending Plan for Failing Banks  European Union nations are split over plans to force
governments to lend to each other as a last resort to stabilize
crisis-hit  banks , according to two people familiar with the
matter.  Germany and Sweden are among nations opposing the move,
part of a broader proposal to take taxpayers off the hook for
bank rescues, said the people, who couldn’t be identified
because the talks are private. The plan, discussed by diplomats
at a meeting in Brussels June 18, received support from other
nations, including Italy and France. The U.K. has previously
said that it was opposed to such funds as they could encourage
lenders to take excessive risks.  Michel Barnier , the EU financial services chief, proposed
setting up a network of national bank-financed funds to shore up
crisis-hit lenders in a draft law this month. He said the
measure was needed to prevent a repeat of the public bailouts
that occurred in the 2008 financial crisis.  Preben Aaman, a spokesman for the Danish presidency of the
EU, and Stefaan De-Rynck, spokesman for Barnier, declined to
immediately comment. The proposals need to be approved by
nations and by lawmakers in the European Parliament before they
can enter into force.  Compliance Action  Universal Gets EU Antitrust Complaint Citing EMI Bid Concerns  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music Group  said it received an
antitrust complaint from European Union regulators citing
concerns over its bid for EMI Group’s recorded-music business.  The European Commission has “provided us today with a
statement of objections,”  Adam White , a spokesman for Universal
in London, said in an e-mail yesterday. “We will continue to
work closely with the commission and look forward to securing
regulatory clearance.” He said Universal is preparing a
detailed response to regulators’ concerns.  A statement of objections sets out regulators’ case for
blocking a deal. Companies may seek an oral hearing and can
offer to sell assets to resolve any concerns.  Regulators have a Sept. 6 deadline to rule on the bid by
Universal, which they have said would create a company “almost
twice the size of the next largest player” in Europe.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the European Commission
in Brussels, declined to comment on the statement of objections.  Courts  Blue Index Founder Sanders Gets 4 Years for Insider Trading  The co-owners of the now-defunct spread-betting firm Blue
Index Ltd. and one of their wives were sentenced to a total of
68 months in prison for insider trading.  James Sanders was sentenced to four years in prison while
another owner, James Swallow, was sentenced to 10 months.
Sanders wife, Miranda, also received a 10-month term.  Sanders pleaded guilty to 10 charges, according to the U.K.
Financial Services Authority. He faced as long as six years in
prison if he hadn’t pleaded guilty, Justice Peregrine Simon said
at the hearing in London today.  Sanders’s wife, Miranda, pleaded guilty to five counts of
insider trading, and Swallow to three charges before the trial,
according to the FSA.  A former senior trader at the brokerage, Christopher
Hossain, and another man, Adam Buck, were cleared of similar
charges last month after a five-week trial.  Profits generated by the defendants from the inside
information were about 1.9 million pounds ($2.99 million), while
Blue Index clients reaped about 10.2 million pounds, the FSA has
said.  Interviews  High-Frequency Definition Needed for New Rules, O’Malia Says  High-frequency trading should be defined before the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission sets rules for what amounts
to about half of the volume of futures markets, said Scott
O’Malia, a member of the panel.  The CFTC needs a better understanding of the practices as
it debates new testing and supervision rules for high-frequency
and automated trading, O’Malia said in a speech prepared for a
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association conference
yesterday in New York.  The CFTC, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, has
scrutinized such trading since May 6, 2010, when $862 billion
was erased from stock values in 20 minutes in the so-called
“flash crash.” The agency has been drafting a release on new
rules, a regulatory step prior to proposed rules.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  RBS to Cut 618 Financial-Planning Jobs, Charge for Advice  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , the U.K.’s biggest
taxpayer-controlled lender, is eliminating 618 branch-based
financial advisers as regulators force lenders to charge clients
for the service.  RBS is also creating 351 financial-planning jobs as a
result of the rule changes, the Edinburgh-based bank said in a
statement today.  The Financial Services Authority’s  Retail Distribution
Review  will from the end of 2012 prevent the payment of
commissions to advisers, and lenders are preparing to charge for
the service.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said in June last year it was
cutting 700 employees offering face-to-face advice in branches
while  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-largest bank, said in
January last year it would cut 1,000 employees as a result of
the regulations.  RBS Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hester has shrunk
assets by more than 700 billion pounds ($1.1 trillion) and cut
about 36,000 jobs since he took over from Fred Goodwin in 2008
at the bank. RBS said in January it would cut about 3,500 jobs
at its investment bank, citing volatile markets and the cost of
new U.K. regulation.  Indonesia Central Bank’s Hadad to Head Financial Regulator  Indonesia’s parliament approved  Bank Indonesia  Deputy
Governor Muliaman Hadad to head the board of a national
financial regulator due to start operating in January.  The central bank may allow banks to own as much as
90 percent of commercial lenders, Hadad said in Jakarta today in
response to a question from reporters.  Approval would be “very selective,” he said. New
ownership rules will be announced before July, Hadad added.  Lawmakers chose Hadad over Achjar Iljas, who held a similar
position at the central bank a decade ago, after conducting so-
called fit-and-proper tests this month on the 14 people
nominated by President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono for the seven
positions at the regulator. Hadad was chosen by acclamation,
rather than by vote, according to a notice posted in the meeting
room of Commission XI, which oversees financial institutions.  The new regulator, known in the Indonesian language as
Otoritas Jasa Keuangan, or OJK, will supervise capital markets,
insurers, pension funds and other non-bank institutions next
year and oversee commercial lenders starting from January 2014.  The OJK will take over regulation of capital markets,
insurers and pension funds from the Capital Market and Financial
Institution Supervisory Board, and assume responsibility for
bank supervision, currently handled by the central bank.  For more, click here.  U.S. Consumer Bureau Aide Said to Be Tapped for General Counsel  Meredith Fuchs, chief of staff to Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau Director Richard Cordray, will be named
general counsel of the agency, replacing Leonard J. Kennedy,
according to a person briefed on the change.  Kennedy, a former general counsel of  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) 
who joined the consumer bureau in January 2011, will become an
adviser to Cordray, said the person, speaking on condition of
anonymity because the decision isn’t public.  Jen Howard, a spokeswoman for the consumer bureau, declined
to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 