-- JPMorgan Wins U.K. Ruling on Document Request for Milan Case
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-06-20T16:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/jpmorgan-wins-ruling-over-u-k-document-request-for-milan-case.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and two
other banks won an attempt to block U.K. prosecutors from
seizing documents that Italian authorities sought to use at a
criminal trial over derivatives, a London judge ruled today.  The lenders, along with  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Depfa Bank
Plc, won a ruling quashing a request for information from the
U.K. Serious Fraud Office, Judge Peter Gross said in a judgment
issued today in London. The SFO had an “obvious lack of
authority” in the case, Gross said.  “It is with considerable reluctance that I have come to
the conclusion that assistance should not be given in this case
in response to the letter of request” from the Milan
prosecutor, Gross said.  Prosecutors in Milan accused the four banks, which arranged
swaps for the city to restructure its debt, of misleading
municipal officials and earning 101 million euros ($128 million)
in hidden fees from the deals. The banks, which deny the fraud
charges, settled with the city government in a separate civil
case in March and agreed to unwind its  interest-rate swaps ,
which adjusted payments on 1.7 billion euros of bonds sold in
2005.  The banks told the London court in May that the SFO
shouldn’t be allowed to use “coercive measures” that wouldn’t
be available to prosecutors in  Italy .  Considerable Sympathy  “In its ruling today, the court expressed a considerable
degree of sympathy for the position of both the Home Secretary
and the SFO,”  David Jones , a spokesman for the U.K. prosecution
agency, said in an e-mailed statement.  Officials at the four banks all declined to comment. Milan
prosecutor Alfredo Robledo didn’t immediately return calls
seeking comment on the ruling.  The prosecutor leading the Milan case used the accounts of
an Italian bank on a similar transaction to show that lenders
set terms in their favor in swap deals. A witness testified
during a trial in Milan over the derivatives sales that the
city’s swaps may have broken rules on how municipalities can use
derivatives, partly because they were used to raise funds
instead of hedging risk.  The case is: The Queen on the application of UBS Limited
v.  Serious Fraud Office , CO/3165/2012,  High Court  of Justice,
Queen’s Bench Division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  