-- KenolKobil Hits Six-Year High as Trading Resumed: Nairobi Mover
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-06-20T09:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/kenolkobil-hits-six-year-high-as-trading-resumed-nairobi-mover.html
KenolKobil Ltd. (KNOC) ,  Kenya ’s biggest
fuel-retailer by market value, surged to the highest in more
than six years after resuming trading on the Nairobi Securities
Exchange following a six-week suspension on a takeover proposal.  The  shares  climbed as much as 20 percent and were trading 8
percent stronger at 13.5 shillings by 12:02 p.m. in  Nairobi. A
close at that level would be the highest since February 2006,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Trading was suspended after KenolKobil said on May 8 that
its main  shareholders  plan to sell more than 25 percent of their
stake in the company to Puma Energy BV, a Geneva-based
subsidiary of Trafigura Beheer BV. The proposal, which is
subject to regulatory approval, may result in Puma taking a
controlling stake by acquiring all shares in KenolKobil, the
Nairobi-based company said.  “When the deal was first announced traders in the market
didn’t have much information or time to take advantage of it
before the suspension,” said John Kamunya, research analyst
with Sterling Investment Bank Ltd., by phone from Nairobi.
“Investors are interested because Puma could offer a higher
price than the share price and that would push up the value of
the company.”  Gains may be capped after the company said yesterday that
 profit  in the year through December will be “materially lower”
than in 2011, damping investor optimism, said Kamunya.  “The profit warning may hold down shares a little bit,”
he said. “There had been indications from the company already,
though, that they expected losses around fuel hedging.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  