-- Kesa Cuts Dividend After Profit Slumps 42% on French Market
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-06-20T08:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/kesa-cuts-dividend-after-profit-slumps-42-on-french-market-1-.html
Kesa Electricals Plc (KESA) , the owner of
the Darty electronics chain in  Europe , reported profit slumped
42 percent and cut the dividend as tough conditions across
 France , its largest market, weighed on sales of televisions.  Adjusted pretax profit slumped to 59 million euros ($75
million) in the year through April, the London-based retailer
said today in a statement. The retailer will pay a final
 dividend  of 1.25 cents a share, bringing the total dividend to
3.5 cents, down from 7 cents last year. The stock fell as much
as 12 percent.  Revenue in France and in its unprofitable markets of Spain,
Italy and Turkey fell as consumers pared spending on
electronics, Kesa said. The French market will probably continue
to shrink, though at a slower pace than last year’s 4 percent
decline, Chief Executive Officer Thierry Falque-Pierrotin said
on a conference call.  “We don’t see a swift profit recovery -- indeed, we see
downside to consensus forecasts,” said  Philip Dorgan , an
analyst at Panmure Gordon with a sell recommendation on the
stock. “The rebasing of the dividend is sensible in the light
of trading conditions.”  Stock Declines  The stock was down 6.3 percent at 51.75 pence as of 9:08
a.m.  Kesa said it will rename itself Darty Plc as of July 13 to
reflect its brand in France after it sold its U.K. chain Comet
earlier this year.  Mothercare Plc (MTC)  Chairman Alan Parker will replace David Newlands as chairman, Kesa said. Parker, who is a board member,
will succeed Newlands after the annual shareholder meeting on
Sept. 13.  “Markets throughout Europe were exceptionally difficult in
2011/12,” Falque-Pierrotin said in the statement. “The market
across Europe is expected to remain tough, but we will benefit
from the strength of our service-led positioning, cross-channel
approach and improving operational efficiency.”  Newlands said the company is considering relisting the
electronics retailer in France as it renames the company Darty,
the brand it operates in that market. He said he wouldn’t rule
out further asset sales.  Falque-Pierrotin said he’s working on operational
improvements at Kesa’s Italy, Spain and  Turkey  divisions, and
developing more efficiencies with its Darty France unit in the
supply chain and sourcing. The retailer is “monitoring the
market changes we see country-by-country,” he added  “I don’t think in business you can ever say never,”
Newlands said of a potential sale of those assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  