-- King Defeated in BOE Stimulus Push as QE Momentum Grows
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-20T11:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/king-sought-50-billion-pound-qe-extension-in-boe-vote-defeat-1-.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
was overruled for the first time since 2009 as he joined a push
to expand stimulus that’s gaining momentum amid rising jobless
claims and growing risks from Europe’s debt crisis.  The Monetary Policy Committee voted 5-4 to keep its bond-
purchase target at 325 billion pounds ($511 billion) this month.
That defeated votes by King,  Adam Posen  and  David Miles  for a 50
billion-pound expansion, and  Paul Fisher ’s bid for 25 billion
pounds. A separate report showed  jobless-benefit claims  climbed
climbed 8,100 in May from the previous month to 1.6 million, the
 Office for National Statistics  said.  This month was the first time King voted in the minority
since August 2009, showing the central bank is moving closer to
adding stimulus after it halted expansion of its  quantitative-
easing program  in May. The  Federal Reserve  will probably decide
today to expand Operation Twist beyond $400 billion to spur
growth, economists say, as Group of 20 leaders meeting in Mexico
press Europe to step up measures to contain the region’s crisis.  “The risks to U.K. and global activity from financial
distress and political tension within the euro area had
intensified again,” Bank of England policy makers said in the
minutes of their June 6-7 meeting. Most members “judged that
some further economic stimulus was either warranted immediately
or would probably become warranted to meet” the 2 percent
inflation target.  BOE Forecast  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc brought forward its
forecast for when the U.K. central bank will increase its  asset-
purchase program  to July from August after the minutes.
Officials will expand the plan by 50 billion pounds next month,
“with further increases beyond that a clear possibility,” RBS
economists including London-based Ross Walker and Richard Barwell said in a note to clients today.  The pound was little changed today after initially
weakening after the minutes and unemployment report. It traded
at $1.5735 as of 11:55 a.m. in London. The yield on the 10-year
U.K. government bond slipped 1 basis point to 1.706 percent.  “The chances of more QE next month are looking quite high
now,” said  Vicky Redwood , an economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. in London and a former central bank official. “Given that
King’s in the minority, it increases the chance that some of the
other five will follow as he’s the intellectual leader.”  King said in a speech last week the case for more stimulus
in the U.K. is “growing,” as he warned that the euro-area debt
crisis is casting a “long shadow over our own recovery.”  The Bank of England said in the minutes that most MPC
members saw “merit in waiting” on any QE expansion to see the
outcome of the June 17 elections in  Greece  and the European
Council meeting at the end of the month.  “The case for further stimulus depended in part on how
those events unfolded,” the minutes said.  Unemployment Increases  The gain in U.K. unemployment-benefit claims compares with
the the median forecast of 20 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey for a drop of 4,000. The  jobless rate  as measured by
International Labour Organization methods held at 8.2 percent.  The figures suggest the labor-market recovery is running
out of steam, increasing pressure on Prime Minister  David Cameron . His budget cuts have been blamed by the opposition
 Labour Party  for pushing the U.K. into its first double-dip
recession since the 1970s.  At their meeting this month, the MPC voted unanimously to
leave the  main interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent in
June. It discussed cutting the rate before concluding that such
a move “would not have any advantages over an expansion of the
asset-purchase program.” Officials also discussed changing the
remuneration structure on banks’ reserves at the central bank by
paying the key  interest rate  on only some of the reserves.  Liquidity Auction  Some MPC members also “expressed a wish” for the central
bank to consider additional policy tools. The  Bank of England 
today held the first auction in a new liquidity program,
allotting the full 5 billion pounds on offer. It didn’t provide
any further details of the auction.  The activation of the Extended Collateral Term Repo
operation, which was announced in December, marks a step-up by
the Bank of England in its response to the debt crisis. Euro-
area leaders at the G-20 summit pledged to take “all necessary
policy measures” to defend the currency union as Spain grapples
with a banking crisis.  Greek Talks  Haggling among Greek political leaders is continuing today
as they bid to form a coalition that will seek relief from
austerity measures tied to emergency loans. Democratic Left
leader Fotis Kouvelis said today his party has provided support
for the formation of a coalition with New Democracy and Pasok
and an agreement may be reached in the next 24 hours.  Elsewhere in  Europe , Swiss investor confidence fell to the
lowest in five months in June, while consumer sentiment in the
Netherlands dropped to the lowest level in nine years.  In the U.S., 58 percent of economists in a June 18 poll
said the Fed will prolong its Operation Twist program, which
seeks to lower borrowing costs by extending the average maturity
of the securities in the central bank’s portfolio. The current
program ends this month. The U.S. central bank will announce its
decision at around 12:30 p.m. in  Washington .  In  Asia ,  Japan  reported its first trade deficit with the
European Union since the  Finance Ministry  began tracking data in
1979 as the debt crisis limits a rebound in Japanese exports.  The  Bank of Japan  should be ready to “take appropriate
actions without ruling out any options in advance” should the
European crisis worsen, some board members said in May,
according to minutes released today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  