-- King’s Defeat as Governor Heralds BOE Showdown He Tends to Win
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/king-s-defeat-as-governor-heralds-boe-showdown-he-tends-to-win.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
is pulling policy makers closer to more stimulus as the central
bank ramps up its response to the euro-area debt crisis.  King may succeed in his drive for more bond purchases in
July after he was defeated in a 5-4 vote this month against more
 quantitative easing , according to HSBC Holdings Plc,  Societe
Generale  SA and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. On the last
two occasions he was in the minority, it took at most three
months for a majority of officials to follow his cue.  “It’s pretty clear he’s going to persuade the majority to
switch to him,” said  Brian Hilliard , chief U.K. economist at
Societe Generale in London and a former  Bank of England 
official. “The very fact that he’s in that position I think is
an indicator that he expects the view to move soon.”  Europe ’s turmoil is pushing central banks to add to
stimulus, with the U.S. Federal Reserve last night saying it
will expand its program to lower long-term borrowing costs to
help the world’s largest economy. With Britain struggling to
shake off a recession, King had signaled a shift in his stance
last week, saying the case for more stimulus was “growing.”  King, along with policy makers  Adam Posen  and  David Miles ,
voted to increase QE by 50 billion pounds ($78.5 billion) to 375
billion pounds, while Markets Director  Paul Fisher  favored a 25
billion-pound increase, according to the minutes of the Monetary
Policy Committee’s June 6-7 meeting.  While the majority voted to leave the target unchanged,
most “judged that some further economic stimulus was either
warranted immediately or would probably become warranted,” the
central bank said.  ‘Clear Hint’  “The vote itself was a clear hint, but Mervyn sitting
among those four certainly suggests that a July move seems
pretty likely,” said Victoria Clarke, an economist at Investec
Securities in London. It’s “almost four and a half” on the
side of more stimulus, she said.  While King, who steps down in June next year, has lost a
vote on 16 occasions in 182 meetings since the central bank was
given rate-setting independence in 1997, he has only been in the
minority four times since becoming governor in 2003.  The last time King was overruled was August 2009, when the
central bank increased its bond-purchase target by 50 billion
pounds to 175 billion pounds and King dissented in favor of a 75
billion-pound expansion. Three months later, the MPC increased
the target by a further 25 billion pounds.  In July 2007, policy makers raised the  key interest rate  by
0.25 percentage points after King voted in the minority for such
a move the previous month. When the governor opposed a decision
to cut the rate by 0.25 percentage points in August 2005, the
next change of policy by officials was to raise its main rate by
the  same amount  a year later.  Euro Crisis  The euro-area crisis dominated talks at the Group of 20
summit in  Mexico  this week, where world leaders told the region
to pull together to find a solution. King said last week that
Europe’s turmoil has cast a “long shadow.”  In the U.S., the Fed said late yesterday it will expand its
program to replace short-term bonds with longer-term debt by
$267 billion through the end of the year in a bid to reduce
unemployment and protect the economy’s expansion.  Minutes of the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s May meeting showed policy
makers expressed concern that the economy could be “adversely
affected” by the materialization of “substantial risk” from
Europe.  Australia ’s central bank  cut interest rates  on June 5,
saying that Europe’s “economic and financial prospects have
again been clouded by weakening growth, heightened political
uncertainty and concerns about fiscal sustainability.”  Liquidity Action  As the threats from the euro-area debt crisis intensify,
the Bank of England started a new liquidity operation for banks
yesterday and is working on a plan with the government to boost
lending. Both measures were unveiled by King in a June 14
speech.  “Being governor, you don’t want to be caught out in the
cold,” Investec’s Clarke said, referring to King’s vote for
more stimulus this month. “It’s a case of him wanting to say
‘Look, I was in favor of taking more action earlier.’”  Policy maker Ben Broadbent said the case for the Bank of
England to expand QE has increased since May, Reuters reported
yesterday, citing an interview.  HSBC, RBS and SocGen all changed their forecasts for when
the central bank will increase stimulus to next month after the
publication of the minutes. HSBC had previously predicted the
move would happen in September, RBS in August, while SocGen had
forecast a move by November.  “It’s not as if King is putting himself out on a limb and
he thinks there’s a significant risk for six months that he’ll
be voting for it and no further people are going to agree,”
SocGen’s Hilliard said. “That’s clearly not the case.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  