-- Knicks Guard Lin Said to Retain Williams & Connolly as Agent
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-06-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/knicks-jeremy-lin-said-to-hire-williams-connolly-as-agent.html
New York  Knicks guard Jeremy Lin
hired agent Jim Tanner of the Washington law firm Williams &
Connolly to represent him in basketball and marketing matters,
two people familiar with the situation said.  Roger Montgomery , Lin’s current agent, will work with
Tanner on the former Harvard University player’s free agency,
said the people, who yesterday asked not to be identified
because the agreement isn’t complete.  Montgomery didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment. Tanner
was traveling and couldn’t be reached.  Tanner’s clients include  San Antonio Spurs  forward Tim Duncan,  Miami Heat  forward Shane Battier and Grant Hill of the
Phoenix Suns, whose president of basketball operations, Lon Babby, was a Williams & Connolly attorney and player agent
before joining the National Basketball Association team.  The move comes at an important time for Lin, whose
emergence this season could lead to increased endorsements. The
23-year-old, the first Chinese- or Taiwanese-American to play in
the NBA, is a restricted free agent.  Lin, who went undrafted, was cut by his first two NBA teams
before signing with the Knicks on Dec. 27. He invigorated the
team after joining the starting lineup on Feb. 6, fueling sales
of merchandise and tickets, driving television ratings and
helping the team’s parent company,  Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG) , to
end a seven-week stalemate with Time Warner Cable Inc. that kept
the provider’s 2.8 million subscribers in the New York area from
seeing the Knicks.  Ticket prices to games at Madison Square Garden tripled as
fans got caught up in “Linsanity,” a phrase coined to
encompass the excitement surrounding the player. Lin has filed a
trademark application for the term with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  added courtside advertisements in Chinese at
MSG to capitalize on Lin’s appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  