-- Slim Boosts Odds of Winning KPN After Failed German Talks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-06-21T07:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/kpn-says-talks-on-consolidation-have-ended-without-deal.html
America Movil SAB (AMXL) ’s 2.6 billion-euro
($3.3 billion) bid to increase its stake in  Royal KPN NV (KPN) 
received a boost after the Dutch phone operator abandoned talks
over a combination of its German business with a rival.  KPN ended discussions on potential market consolidation in
 Germany  because of “adverse conditions” in the financial
markets, The Hague, Netherlands-based company said yesterday,
without naming any other company. KPN and  Telefonica SA (TEF)  were
evaluating options including a merger of KPN’s E-Plus unit with
Telefonica’s O2, the two smaller of Germany’s four wireless
operators, people familiar the matter said this month.  The failed talks leave KPN Chief Executive Officer Eelco Blok with few options to counter  America Movil ’s unsolicited 8
euro-a-share offer expiring June 27. KPN’s  stock  hasn’t closed
higher than that price since  Carlos Slim ’s company bid last
month for as much as a 27.7 percent stake. Blok and Chief
Financial Officer Eric Hageman have been visiting KPN investors
in the past weeks to ask them not to tender their shares.  “It’s an absolute mess,” said Will Draper, an analyst at
Espirito Santo in  London . “What’s going to happen to KPN’s
share price is that it’s going to get slammed and make that 8
euros look even more attractive.”  Independent Foundation  KPN shares  fell  as much as 4.9 percent to 7.51 euros and
traded 3.7 percent lower at 7.61 euros at 9:05 a.m. in
Amsterdam. The Dutch company reiterated that America Movil’s
offer is too low, and said it plans to publish a position
statement today. America Movil will hold an investor call to
detail its own strategy after European markets close today.  As a last resort, KPN can turn to its independent
foundation, which has the responsibility for defending the
company from “influences that may threaten the continuity,
independence and identity” of the company by issuing shares
that carry  voting rights .  America Movil rose 0.3 percent to 17.51 pesos in Mexico
City, where the company is based. Slim’s company has been buying
KPN shares in the market, accumulating an 8.7 percent holding as
of yesterday.  Officials at America Movil and Madrid-based Telefonica
declined to comment.  “Today, KPN has an even stronger belief that there is
significant value embedded in the German market, and is
convinced that other parties share this view,” KPN said in a
statement yesterday.  German Combination  The options Telefonica and KPN had explored included a sale
of a stake in a joint German entity in an initial public
offering, a person familiar with the matter said this month.  A combination of O2 and E-Plus would cut the number of
network operators in Germany to three and create the country’s
largest wireless-service provider by customers. KPN has
estimated 4 billion euros in synergies from a deal in Germany.  “With no short-term solution in Germany, the case for
value uplift at KPN will be difficult to prove, and the
likelihood of America Movil’s offer to go through has
increased substantially,” Nomura analyst led by Frederic Boulan
wrote in a note, adding that KPN shares, before yesterday’s
announcement, had priced in half of the synergies.  O2 and E-Plus would have a combined mobile-phone customer
base of 41.7 million, which would leapfrog  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s
36.5 million and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s 35.1 million. Based on
wireless-service revenue in the first three months of this year,
a combined E-Plus and O2 remains smaller, with about 1.53
billion euros, compared with Vodafone’s 1.7 billion euros and
1.66 billion euros for T-Mobile.  Telekom Austria  “The idea that a deal can be tried in six months or 12
months or in three years will remain, and certainly E-Plus is
interested in that and Telefonica will be too,” said Mathieu Robilliard, an analyst at BNP Paribas in Paris. “The question
is, does America Movil want to see a merger?”  In an interview last week, America Movil CFO Carlos Garcia-
Moreno said that KPN benefits from retaining mobile-phone assets
in Germany and  Belgium .  America Movil is establishing footholds in  Europe  as the
continent’s debt crisis hurts the value of the region’s phone
companies. Last week, America Movil agreed to buy a 21 percent
stake in  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  from investor Ronny Pecik.  “What else can they do?” Jeffrey Vonk, an analyst at ING,
said of KPN in an interview. “In theory the foundation could
take on all of the shares. Basically that’s the only option
left.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  