-- Kumba Surges to Record on China Rebound: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-06-20T15:45:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/kumba-surges-to-record-on-china-rebound-johannesburg-mover.html
Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO)  advanced to a
record in Johannesburg as  iron ore  climbed to the highest in a
month on speculation that China, the biggest buyer, is poised
for a rebound after the government acted to spur growth.  Shares in the fourth-largest supplier of seaborne iron ore
added 2.2 percent to 588.55 rand by the 5 p.m. close, the
highest since its 2006 listing. Ore with 62 percent content
delivered to the Chinese port of Tianjin  rose  0.4 percent to
$136.60 a dry ton yesterday, the strongest level since May 14,
according to an gauge compiled by The Steel Index Ltd.  China’s economy  is heading for a rebound this month
following government measures to support growth, Commerce
Minister  Chen Deming  said June 18. Policy makers in the world’s
second-biggest economy are shoring up expansion as Europe’s
deepening debt crisis curtails exports and foreign investment.
In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  may announce measures to spur
growth as it concludes a two-day meeting today.  “China consumes about 50 percent of the world’s
commodities so whatever happens there has a big impact on what
happens with Kumba,” Simon Fillmore, an analyst at Independent
Securities (Pty) Ltd., said by phone from Johannesburg.  Kumba exports 62 percent of its ore to China, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Shares in  Assore Ltd. (ASR) , a South
African company that is joint owner of iron-ore and manganese
producer Assmang Ltd., jumped 1.6 percent to 309.78 rand.  Expectations for a “fairly significant” interim dividend
may also be boosting shares in Kumba, Fillmore said. The company
reports earnings for the year through June on July 19 and may
pay a dividend of about 22 rand, he said. The company has a
dividend yield of 7.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  