-- Nalbandian Wins First Match Since Bloodying Official on Court
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-20T20:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/nalbandian-wins-first-match-since-bloodying-official-on-court.html
David Nalbandian  won his first
tennis match since injuring a line judge during an on-court
outburst that triggered a London police investigation.  Nalbandian beat Nicolas Almagro 3-6, 6-3, 10-4 in  The
Boodles  tournament, an exhibition event at Stoke Park, about 25
miles (40 kilometers) west of the British capital.  Nalbandian, in an on-court interview after the match,
didn’t address his actions on June 17 in the final at Queen’s
Club in west London against Marin Cilic of  Croatia .  London police said today they continue to investigate an
assault complaint made against the Argentine player by an
unidentified person.  Line judge Andrew McDougall ended up with a bloodied leg
after Nalbandian kicked an advertising board at the base of the
official’s chair. Nalbandian was disqualified and won’t receive
36,100 pounds ($56,579) in prize money or 150 ranking points. He
was also fined 10,000 euros ($12,623) by ATP supervisor Tom
Barnes for unsportsmanlike behavior.  Nalbandian apologized to the crowd and McDougall after the
outburst. The crowd today applauded him and Nalbandian laughed
and talked in Spanish with Almagro at the end of the match.
Nalbandian has played at the exhibition as part of his
preparation for Wimbledon for nine years. The season’s third
major championship starts June 25.  John McEnroe , the first player to be disqualified from a
Grand Slam event for misconduct after the sport went
professional in 1968, said today on a media conference call for
ESPN that the Queen’s Club incident “could definitely affect”
Nalbandian at Wimbledon.  “I don’t think when he kicked that wood that he expected
the wood to splinter or break and then hit the guy in the
shin,” McEnroe said. “He was upset with himself. He just
missed a ball. He reacted and then paid a pretty stiff price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 