-- National Bank of Greece to Sell Luxury Resort as Slump Bites
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-06-21T09:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/national-bank-of-greece-to-sell-luxury-resort-as-recession-bites.html
National Bank of Greece SA  is
preparing to sell an Athenian Riviera resort, visited by world
leaders and movie stars for more than half a century, in a test
of the country’s ability to sell assets amid concern that it
will leave the euro.  The 3.3 million-square-foot (307,000 square-meter)  Astir
Palace  complex has already drawn investors’ interest, according
to Aristotelis Karytinos, general manager of real estate at the
lender. The Athens-based bank and  Greece ’s privatization fund,
which owns part of the property, will put out a public tender in
coming months, he said.  “Astir is a trophy asset and we want to get the best from
it,” Karytinos said in an interview in Athens.  Proceeds would help the publicly traded bank meet stricter
capital rules and raise cash for Greece, which is behind on
money-raising targets tied to 240 billion euros ($305 billion)
of rescue packages in the past two years. The plan is to sell
the complex of hotels and bungalows surrounded by private
beaches in one package in conjunction with Greece’s  Hellenic
Republic Asset Development Fund  to help maximize the price,
according to Karytinos.  Bailout Funds  The Greek state is seeking to raise  50 billion euros  from
state assets, half of which are real estate, by 2020 to meet
conditions of its bailout. It has brought in 1.8 billion euros.  The fund’s policy of leasing properties instead of selling
them outright has deterred potential investors, according to
Yannis Perrotis, managing director of CBRE Atria, the Greek
member of  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG) ’s affiliate network.  The government’s asset-sale  program  is key to securing
funds from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund .
The Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund’s plans, which also
include the sale of stakes in national utilities and mining
companies, was delayed by months in the political limbo ahead of
the country’s June 17 vote on a new government.  Plans to sell Astir Place, on the Vouliagmeni peninsula 25
kilometers (16 miles) from Venizelos International Airport, are
progressing, according to the bank. That could mean the first
outright sale of Greek real estate from the fund’s pool of 
70,000  properties.  ‘Unique Assets’  “Assets that are the best in their class and unique, as
Astir clearly is, are selling and holding value,” said Mike
Braunholtz, a broker at U.K.-based  Prestige Property Group ,
which markets luxury properties globally. “On the downside, the
whole world has its eyes on the Greece and it would be
considered a very risky environment to invest in until there is
more clarity whether you’d be buying in euros, dollars or
drachma.”  Following the June 17 elections, Greece’s New Democracy and
Pasok parties, traditionally political rivals, and the
Democratic Left struck a deal to form a coalition government
that will seek relief from austerity measures tied to emergency
loans. Greece, in its fifth year of recession, would face having
to abandon the 17-nation euro and reintroduce the drachma should
the flow of rescue funds cease.  Holger Schmieding, chief economist at Berenberg Bank in
 London , said the probability Greece remains in the euro by the
end of 2012 is 75 percent.  Currency Speculation  Foreign funds with holdings in stronger currencies such as
the dollar or the Swiss franc have positioned themselves for
Greece’s return to the drachma, according to Ioannis Kaligiannakis, a senior appraiser at real estate consulting firm
Colliers International in Athens. “They are already here,”
Kaligiannakis said before the election results.  Astir Palace Hotel SA (ASTIR) , the public company that owns the
resort, has a market value of 166 million euros. By including
the underlying land, partly owned by the Greek state, the sale
may fetch multiples of that, according to Andreas Taprantzis,
head of real estate for the state fund.  National  Bank of Greece (TELL) , the country’s biggest lender,
reported a first-quarter loss of 537 million euros and a core
tier one capital ratio of 6.4, below a 10 percent target
required by September. It holds 85 percent of Astir Palace
Hotel.  The bank also owns a 188,000 square-meter plot where two
hotels and 58 bungalows are located. It leases another 112,000
square-meter parcel, site of the shuttered Aphrodite hotel,
owned by the Greek state.  Selling the Astir Palace land may be a departure from
Greece’s policy of not selling state-owned property outright,
and so-called freehold sales could generate interest in Greek
assets that had been passed over because they were only offered
for lease, according to Perrotis of CBRE Atria.  ‘Outright Sales’  “It seems that so far offering long-term leases hasn’t
been effective and that the market has given its message to the
Greek Republic’s fund,” Perrotis said in a June 6 interview in
 Athens . “Now the state is seeing that the interest expressed is
for outright sales and the fund may have to adjust.”  Taprantzis said the sale of Astir Palace is an exception
because the bank is in a position to force the fund to sell.  “We are in a prisoner’s dilemma,” Taprantzis said in a
June 6 interview. “Only cooperation will drive the best outcome
and if we don’t follow the banks’ lead, our property will be
valueless.”  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT)  operates the
Westin Athens Astir Palace Beach Resort and the  Arion Resort &
Spa Astir Palace , which includes the bungalows. Among the
resort’s restaurant is Matsuhisa Athens, a sushi eatery owned by
Nobu Matsuhisa that overlooks the Aegean Sea.  Bilderberg Conferences  Since its opening in 1960, the resort’s guests have
included Jackie Onassis,  Nelson Mandela ,  Tony Blair ,  Jane Fonda 
and  Frank Sinatra , according to the resort’s website. Astir
Palace in 1993 and 2009 hosted the  Bilderberg  conference, an
invitation-only gathering of European and American business and
political leaders that’s held in a different location each year.  National Bank of Greece in December paid  43 million euros 
for a 40-year lease of the tourist port that connects the resort
by sea to make the asset more attractive. It spent 70 million
euros refurbishing the hotels before the 2004 Olympics,
according to the bank’s annual reports.  Astir Palace Hotel has reported  losses  each year since
2003, according to company filings. It has net debt of 20.7
million euros,  “The focus is not on the historical performance of the
listed company,” Karytinos said, declining to disclose the
asking price for Astir Palace. “The true value is in the real
estate and the traded company’s market capital is in no way
reflective of the resort’s worth.”  Taprantzis also declined to give an estimate of the
resort’s value.  ‘Smart Money’  “All the smart money is on the hotels,” said Perrotis.
“If Greece does leave the euro, there will be a huge surge in
tourism because of the value for money for tourists with euros,
dollars and any other currency.”  Greece attracted 16.4 million international tourists last
year as industry revenue reached 10.5 billion euros, up 9.3
percent from a year earlier, according to a report by the
Association of Greek Tourism Enterprises, also known as  SETE .
The industry represents about 17 percent of gross domestic
product and employs 758,300 people, or 18 percent of the working
population.  When asked whether prospective investors are holding back
to see if they could buy Astir Palace for less if Greece were to
return to the drachma, Karytinos said if they were it’s a
gamble.  “Any discussion about scenarios regarding Greece outside
the  euro zone  is speculation,” Karytinos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in  Madrid  at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 