-- NBA Sponsors Stellar Like LeBron James: Riskless Return
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-06-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/nba-sponsors-stellar-like-lebron-james-riskless-return.html
As  LeBron James  presses on toward
winning his first National Basketball Association championship,
the league’s sponsors can already claim victory.  The NBA’s advertising partners had the highest return and
the lowest risk for shareholders in the past five years among
corporate partners backing the four major U.S. sports leagues,
according to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING. The NBA
sponsor portfolio, which includes 14 public companies, had a
risk-adjusted return of 2.5 percent, ahead of  Major League
Baseball ’s second-best 1.4 percent and more than twice that of
the  National Football League .  The low volatility of the NBA’s sponsors completes a season
that was shortened to 66 games from 82 by a labor impasse and is
now concluding with James’s Miami Heat leading three games to
one in the best-of-seven NBA Finals against  Kevin Durant ’s
Oklahoma City Thunder. Basketball advertisers did best even
after the league replaced  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the stock with the
best risk-adjusted return of all sponsors, with  Yum! Brands
Inc. (YUM) , the owner of Taco Bell and KFC restaurants, as its fast-
food partner three years ago.  “The NBA is going to be working with real strong consumer
brands, the kinds of companies Warren Buffett talks about that
will still be around 10, 15, 20 years from now,” John Rogers Jr., chairman of Chicago-based Ariel Investments LLC and captain
of the Princeton University basketball team for the 1979-80
season, said in a telephone interview. “In this risky market
environment, those are the kinds of companies that are going to
show up best.”  Beer, Tacos  The NBA sponsors produced the highest total return since
2007, with a gain of 45 percent, and the lowest volatility at
18. National Hockey League sponsors did the worst, with the
highest volatility and a riskless score of minus 0.1, the only
negative result.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price-swing variation, giving a measure of income per
unit of risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset
can swing dramatically in a short period of time, increasing the
potential for unexpected losses, compared with a security whose
price moves at a steady rate.  Yum, which sponsors basketball via its Taco Bell unit, was
the best performer in that group, with a risk-adjusted return of
3.7 percent. The chain also sponsors MLB.  Anheuser-Busch InBev
NV (ABI) , which also sponsors football and baseball, ranked second
with a risk-adjusted return of 3.2 percent, and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) 
came in third with 3.1 percent.  China Presence  “These are well-run companies that know what they’re doing
and they’re using us effectively,” Mark Tatum, the NBA’s
executive vice president for global marketing partnerships, said
in a telephone interview. “But we can’t take credit for that.”  The league is seeking relationships with businesses it
thinks are stable and smart, with long-term growth and a plan
for what the marketing should accomplish, Tatum said.  While football remains the most popular sport in the U.S.,
the NBA has the most fans in China, with more than 52 million
followers on social media websites Sina Weibo and Tencent QQ,
according to the league. Basketball won an increased presence in
the country following the career of former Houston Rockets
center  Yao Ming .  Yum, which also has KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants, focused
on stores outside the U.S. during the past five years,
particularly China, which accounted for about 44 percent of
revenue last year. The Louisville, Kentucky-based company, which
has about 37,300 stores worldwide, plans to open 600 new
restaurants in China in 2012.  McDonald’s Best  More recently, the chain has attempted to increase U.S.
sales by offering new breakfast items and the  Cantina Bell  menu,
created with celebrity chef Lorena Garcia, aimed at competing
with rivals such as  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)  and  Jack in the
Box Inc. ’s Qdoba Mexican Grill. The company has no Taco Bell
restaurants in China, according to Rob Poetsch, a spokesman.  Taco Bell in 2009 entered a four-year deal to become the
NBA’s fast-food partner, replacing McDonald’s after two decades.
McDonald’s, which has 1,500 stores in China, said on June 8 that
same-store sales fell 1.7 percent in Asia Pacific, the  Middle
East  and Africa in May, the biggest decline since at least 2004.  The company, which is based in  Oak Brook ,  Illinois , and
sponsors the NHL, was the best performer among all sponsors over
the past five years, with a risk-adjusted return of 4.4 percent.
 Visa Inc. (V)  came in second with 4.3 percent and Yum was third.  Taco Box  Still, McDonald’s stock-market performance wasn’t enough to
prevent hockey’s sponsors from falling to last place. The league
was dragged down by  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI) , the largest U.S.
satellite-radio broadcaster and the most volatile stock in the
group, and  Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV) , the world’s biggest
concert promoter and ticket seller, which lost 62 percent in the
period.  The partnership with basketball can advertise both the
restaurant and the sport, producing menu items such as 2010’s
 “NBA Five Buck Box,”  advertised on television by  Charles Barkley . There’s a  Taco Bell Skills Challenge  at the All-Star
game, and the restaurant chain offered free chalupas to fans of
the Portland Trail Blazers when the team scored 100 points.  “Our core target is 18- to 35-year-old males,” Poetsch
said in an interview. “They watch a lot of sports, they go to a
lot of games, so partnering with the NBA resonates very well
with them.”  Targeting the partnership is important, said Tatum of the
NBA. Sponsors sign on with the NBA, such as networking
technology maker  Cisco Systems Inc. (CIS)  and wireless communication
provider  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , trying to reach different
audiences in different ways.  LeBron James  “The first thing we look at is a corporate partner’s
business objectives,” Tatum said. “We have a pretty diverse
portfolio, anywhere from footwear to banks to technology
companies to deodorant, but that portfolio is grounded in who we
reach and who our audience is,” Tatum said.  The NBA’s sponsor portfolio through yesterday included five
companies with negative scores on the riskless return calculator
and seven with scores above 1. Second-placed Major League
Baseball’s portfolio had four with negative scores and five
greater than 1. The NFL’s sponsors included 10 with negative
scores, along with seven above 1. NHL sponsors included eight
above 1, which were dragged down by eight with negative returns.  For McDonald’s, being in the bottom league by that measure
doesn’t mean it’s losing out in the NBA. The company two years
ago signed a multiyear endorsement with James, the league’s most
valuable player.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  