-- New York May Hit 98 as Heat Warnings Posted for East
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-06-20T19:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/new-york-may-hit-97-as-heat-warnings-posted-along-east-coast.html
New York City  is opening 455 cooling
centers to provide respite from temperatures that may reach 98
degrees Fahrenheit (37 Celsius) today and feel closer to 108.  From  Canada  to the mid-Atlantic U.S., government agencies
warned against oppressive heat that may increase electric use.
The U.S.  National Weather Service  issued advisories that high
temperatures and humidity may make outside activity dangerous
through tomorrow.  Environment Canada  issued a similar warning
for southern  Quebec , including Montreal.  An excessive heat warning has also been issued for New York
City and the metropolitan area including  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
until 8 p.m. because hot weather and humidity may make it feel
like temperatures are between 105 and 108.  “It’s going to be hot and it’s going to be humid, and we
want to make sure people are taking all the appropriate
precautions for that,” said Lauren Nash, a Weather Service
meteorologist in Upton, New York.  New York City residents were urged to limit unnecessary
electric use as much as possible while the heat persists,
according to a statement from  Consolidated Edison Co. (ED)   NYC High  The high temperature in Central Park is expected to reach
98, according to the Weather Service. That would be the first
time Central Park has seen 90 degrees or higher since last
August, according to the Weather Service. The high reached 89 on
May 28 and 29.  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  ordered the 455 air-
conditioned centers opened around the city through tomorrow. The
mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent
Bloomberg LP.  “Prolonged heat can put you at risk for serious health
consequences,” said city Health Commissioner Dr. Thomas Farley.
“For anyone who is elderly or living with a chronic health
condition like diabetes or mental illness, a series of hot days
can lead to heat exhaustion, heat stroke, even death.”  Low temperatures in New York are forecast to be 78
overnight. Nighttime lows in the high 70s can make sleeping
uncomfortable and boost air conditioning use.  The dew point, a measure of how much moisture is in the
air, may also determine energy demand, said  Tom Kines , a senior
meteorologist at  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,
 Pennsylvania .  Dew Point  “When the dew point gets up to 70 degrees, just about
everybody is feeling uncomfortable, and when it gets up to 74,
it’s miserable,” Kines said. “I suspect there will be
locations where the dew point gets into the 70s.”  Today’s temperatures may reach 98 in Boston and Baltimore;
97 in Philadelphia and  Washington ; and 95 in  Chicago .  An excessive heat warning was also issued for Philadelphia;
Trenton, New Jersey; and the upper Hudson River valley including
Poughkeepsie.  In Washington, residents should stay indoors as much as
possible, drink plenty of liquids and never leave pets or
children in parked vehicles, according to a statement released
by the city.  Toronto may reach 95 today and  Montreal  87, according to
 Environment Canada .  Worse Tomorrow  Nash said the worst of the heat is expected tomorrow, when
New York may again see 98 degrees, and temperatures may remain
in the 90s into the weekend before cooling begins.  Kines said a cold front is expected to start reaching the
East Coast starting the day after tomorrow, breaking the heat.
It will probably spark strong thunderstorms as it moves through.  While temperatures won’t fall drastically when the front
passes, the humidity will decrease and conditions will be more
comfortable, Kines said. After that, it may be a while before
the East Coast has its next round of hot weather, he said.  New York ’s temperature reached 90 or higher 20 times last
year, with three of those days in June, according to the Weather
Service. June has an average of 2.9 days of 90 degrees or higher
in records going back to 1870.  The  New York Independent System Operator , which oversees
much of the state’s electricity grid, had its highest demand of
33,939 megawatts on Aug. 2, 2006, according to the ISO’s
website. The grid operator expects a peak of 33,295 megawatts
this summer.  Wholesale power in New York City rose to $860.34 a
megawatt-hour at 11:10 a.m. today and  Long Island  rose to
$917.35, according to the New York ISO. Western New York prices
rose to $2,218.79. Spot prices for these areas were in the $20s
at the same time yesterday.  New England  spot power rose to a high today of $186.44 a
megawatt-hour at 12:45 p.m. compared to the day-ahead price of
$109.45, according to the region’s grid operator, ISO New
England. Prices were in the $30s and $40s at the same time
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  