-- New Jersey Democrats Likely to Pass Christie Budget Plan
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-06-20T19:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/new-jersey-democrats-likely-to-pass-christie-budget-plan.html
Democratic lawmakers in New Jersey
will hew closely to Governor  Chris Christie ’s $32.1 billion
spending plan in a counter-proposal that will have the votes to
pass, Assembly Budget Committee Chairman Vincent Prieto said.  Budget panels in both houses of the Democratic-led
Legislature scheduled hearings on the plan tomorrow. The
alternative budget, which has not been introduced yet, will
stick with Christie’s revenue and spending levels, while
substituting his 10 percent income-tax cut with a property-tax
credit later in the year, Prieto said in an interview.  Christie, a 49-year-old Republican who faces re-election in
2013, said on June 8 that he would support Senate President
Stephen Sweeney’s plan to give residents a 10 percent credit
against their income taxes. The governor and lawmakers must
approve a  budget  by July 1, the first day of the fiscal year.  “We have to stay mindful that he has to sign it, so why do
something that jeopardizes a government shutdown?” said Prieto,
a Democrat from Secaucus. “He gets to certify the revenue and
to say what the numbers are.”  The budget proposed by Christie in February projected a 7.3
percent revenue gain, the biggest of any U.S. governor and the
most since before the last recession began in December 2007. His
treasurer has since said revenue through June 2013 may be $700
million under targets, while the Legislature’s chief budget
analyst has said the gap may be twice as much.  Tax-Cut Hinge  Christie’s budget is “structurally unbalanced” because it
is built on “optimistic” revenue assumptions,  Standard &
Poor’s  said in February. The plan increases the use of one-time
revenue to $1.6 billion, or 5 percent of the total, from 4
percent in fiscal 2012, S&P said. Christie has promised to wean
the state off such temporary budget fixes, which totaled more
than $3.5 billion in 2010.  Democrats plan to set aside money for a tax cut, and won’t
introduce legislation to disperse the money until they can
determine if there is enough revenue to fund it, said Derek Roseman, a spokesman for Sweeney, and  Tom Hester , a spokesman
for Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver.  “The numbers are going to be very close,” Assemblyman
John Burzichelli, a Democrat from Paulsboro who is on the budget
panel, said of revenue. “Can the state afford a  tax cut ? If his
numbers materialize as he says they will, then we can.”  2006 Shutdown  The last time the state government shut down was in 2006,
when Democratic Governor  Jon Corzine  ordered non-essential
services, including casinos and parks, closed for about a week
after lawmakers balked at his proposal to balance the budget
through a sales-tax increase.  Christie, who ousted Corzine in 2009, froze $2.2 billion in
spending to close a midyear deficit in 2010, and then cut $10
billion in projected new spending for schools, pensions and
towns. This year he sought a 10 percent income-tax cut over 36
months, which he said was needed to spur growth.  Assembly Majority Leader Louis Greenwald, a Democrat from
 Cherry Hill , said his party will present plans to raise income
taxes on those earning more than $1 million. Christie has twice
vetoed such increases and said he’ll do so again. Bills to cut
or raise taxes must be introduced separately from the budget.  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, declined to
comment today on budget talks. During a town-hall meeting
yesterday in Cedar Grove, Christie called those seeking the so-
called millionaire’s tax “Corzine Democrats,” and compared
them to vampires that he said won’t die even in the third year
of his administration.  2010 Battle  Christie last year cut almost $1 billion in spending items
added by Democrats in the week before the budget deadline. That
move may have prompted Democrats to stay close to the lines
Christie laid out, said Assemblyman Declan O’Scanlon of  Red
Bank , the ranking Republican on the budget panel.  “Last year that Democratic effort backfired to paint the
governor into a corner,” O’Scanlon said. “This is a reaction
to that, and it’s also a recognition that the governor’s budget
is a good one.”  Prieto declined to further specify changes in the
Democrats’ budget, which he said is still being drafted and
won’t be released until its introduction tomorrow. Votes in both
houses are planned for June 25.  The budget needs 21 votes in the Senate and 41 in the
Assembly to pass. Democrats control the Senate, 24-16, and the
Assembly, 48-32. Sweeney, during a June 18 interview in Trenton,
said that his party has enough votes to pass the budget bill in
his house.  Christie’s income-tax cut would have cost about $180
million its its first phase next fiscal year. Sweeney, a
Democrat from West Deptford, proposed replacing that reduction
with a credit against residents’ income taxes equal to 10
percent of their property-tax bills.  New Jersey  has the highest
real-estate levies in the nation, averaging $7,576 in 2010,
according to the state Department of Community Affairs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  