-- New Zealand GDP Growth Accelerates 1.1%, Most in 5 Years
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-06-21T00:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/new-zealand-gdp-growth-accelerates-1-1-most-in-five-years.html
New Zealand ’s  economy  grew at the
fastest pace in five years last quarter, sending the local
currency near a seven-week high as investors reduced bets the
central bank will cut  interest rates .  Gross domestic product  rose 1.1 percent in the three months
ended March 31 from the previous quarter, when it expanded a
revised 0.4 percent,  Statistics New Zealand  said in a report
released today in Wellington. Growth was the quickest since the
first quarter of 2007 and almost three times the 0.4 percent
projection by the central bank and the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 14 economists.  The acceleration of New Zealand’s export-driven economy may
be short lived, economists said, as commodity prices fall and
 Europe ’s fiscal crisis restrains  consumer confidence . Reserve
Bank Governor Alan Bollard last week signaled the official cash
rate may remain at a record-low 2.5 percent through the first
quarter next year.  “Clearly this sort of number puts any immediate thoughts
of easing very much on the back burner, but I wouldn’t rule it
out if the world implodes,” said  Darren Gibbs , chief New
Zealand economist at Deutsche Bank AG in Auckland. “The
question for the RBNZ is we have declining terms of trade, a
tightening fiscal stance and some difficulties offshore. Is the
economy going to be able to accelerate from here?”  New Zealand’s dollar rose after the data to 80.17 U.S.
cents, the highest level since May 4, from 79.62 cents
immediately before the report. Two-year swap yields rose to 2.82
percent from 2.7 percent.  Rate Outlook  There is a 32 percent chance of a quarter-point rate cut by
the Sept. 13 review, down from 48 percent late yesterday,
according to  interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg.  The economy rose 2.4 percent from the year-earlier quarter,
faster than the 1.3 percent estimated by economists and the 1.9
percent pace in the fourth quarter.  New Zealand consumer  confidence  fell this month to the
lowest level in more than a year. A gauge of confidence index
dropped to 105.8 from 113.9 in May, ANZ National Bank Ltd. said
in an e-mailed report June 15, citing a Roy Morgan survey of
1,040 people.  “Today’s numbers confirm moderate underlying strength in
the economy, despite the uncertain international mood and
difficulties in Europe in particular,” Finance Minister  Bill English  said in an e-mailed statement. The government said in
the May 24 budget it will cut spending to return to surplus by
2014-15.  Downgraded Forecasts  Bollard on June 14 forecast annual growth of 1.2 percent.
He lowered his GDP projections for the next three years, citing
falling commodity prices and spending restraint.  New Zealand’s annual growth is the fastest since the second
quarter of 2010, bolstered by the spending of foreign fans at
last year’s  Rugby World Cup  and increased milk production.  Australia ’s economy expanded 4.3 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, lifted by household spending and
engineering construction, according to a June 6 report.  In New Zealand, farm output rose 2.3 percent in the first
quarter on favorable weather conditions that led to increased
milk production. Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s
biggest dairy exporter, said in April that milk collection in
the eight months ended March 31 was 10 percent higher than a
year earlier.  Manufacturing rose 1.8 percent as food, beverage and
tobacco production quickened, the agency said.  Professional and business services, which includes legal
and advertising, increased as did public administration activity.  Tourism Spending  Retail and accommodation activity fell 0.6 percent from the
fourth quarter, when purchases by local supporters and 133,000
foreign fans bolstered spending to a record. Construction
declined 0.1 percent.  Purchases of appliances, vehicles and other durable goods
rose to a record in the quarter and there was increased spending
by New Zealanders traveling overseas. Spending on food and other
non-durables declined and overall household consumption gained
0.1 percent, the statistics agency said.  Investment increased 1.7 percent, led by a rise in business
investment in fixed assets. Investment in residential housing
declined, the agency said.  Exports of goods, which make up 30 percent of the economy,
fell 1.7 percent, the most since the third quarter of 2008, as
crude oil and metal products declined. Exports of services fell,
led by a decline in tourist spending. Imports gained 4.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  