-- New York Sues Online Cigarette Business for Evading Taxes
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-06-20T21:49:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/new-york-sues-online-cigarette-business-for-evading-taxes.html
New York City  sued an upstate online
cigarette business for allegedly evading taxes, saying that
sales of non-tax-stamped cigarettes deprive the state and city
of millions of dollars in lost revenue.  Robert and Marcia Gordon, of Salamanca, New York, who
operate “All of Our Butts,” a  website  that purports to sell
“tax free” cigarettes, were named as defendants in a complaint
filed today in federal court in  Manhattan .  The Gordons are accused of violating the federal Contraband
Cigarette Trafficking Act and the Prevent All Cigarette
Trafficking Act, or PACT act, by making deliveries of cigarettes
to New York City without appropriate tax stamps and failing to
comply with federal age-verification regulations.  “Businesses that flout the law injure the public health
and evade taxes used to pay for vital public services,” Michael Cardozo, the city’s Corporation Counsel, said in a statement.
“They can expect further enforcement actions directed against
them.”  Repeated Sales  The Gordons also are alleged to have violated federal
racketeering laws by engaging in repeated sales of cigarettes on
which state and city taxes haven’t been paid. Regional
Integrated Logistics Inc., a Buffalo, New York-based company
that arranges for deliveries of cigarettes into New York, was
named as a co-conspirator in the Gordons’ racketeering scheme.  Robert Gordon  sued the U.S. in  Washington  in 2010, seeking
to block the PACT act. A federal judge there upheld portions of
the law as enforceable, while blocking enforcement of some
provisions, city officials said. That ruling is now being
appealed.  New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , with support from
the City Council, has banned cigarette smoking in restaurants,
bars, workplaces and parks during the past 10 years.  He also sought to garner uncollected cigarette taxes in a
city-funded investigation last year that he said found American
Indian reservations selling tax-free cigarettes to retailers. In
2003, the city sued 15 websites that sold cigarettes on the
Internet, alleging a “massive tax evasion scheme.”  Sales, Deliveries  Today’s complaint seeks a court order blocking continuing
illegal sales and deliveries into New York as well as
compensation for  tax revenue  lost as a result of the defendants’
unlawful activities.  The city projects a $3 billion deficit, or about 4 percent
of the $72.3 billion budget plan for the 2014 fiscal year, which
begins July 1, 2013. Budget negotiations for the fiscal year
that starts next month are under way now, with Bloomberg and
City Council members arguing over cuts the mayor has proposed
for child care, libraries and the fire department.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  The case is the City of New York v. Robert Gordon, 12-
cv-4838, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in  New York  at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 