-- New Jersey Suspends Use of Traffic-Light Cameras in 21 Towns
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-06-20T17:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/new-jersey-suspends-use-of-traffic-light-cameras-in-21-towns.html
The  New Jersey  Transportation
Department, saying dozens of red-light cameras may not be
properly calibrated, ordered 21 of the 25 towns that installed
them to stop issuing tickets based on their findings.  The suspension affects 63 of the 85  intersections  where
cameras were installed to snap photos of drivers running stop
lights, the department said in a  statement .  New Jersey began a pilot program in 2008 allowing towns to
place the cameras at problem intersections as a deterrent. The
cameras snap a photo of drivers who go through the intersection
after a yellow light has changed to red, and the driver is
mailed a summons.  In its statement, the Transportation Department said the
duration of yellow lights at only 22 of the intersections were
long enough to meet the minimum timing set forth in the original
legislation. As part of the order, the timing of each light will
be scrutinized and those that don’t stay yellow long enough will
be removed from the program.  Joe Dee, a spokesman for Transportation Commissioner  James Simpson , said the cameras will still be taking pictures during
the review. If problems are found, some outstanding violations
may be vacated, he said.  “Those cameras will still be operating,” he said today in
a telephone interview. “If our study shows the yellow lights
were long enough, then those violations will still go out. This
isn’t an indictment of the whole program. We’re taking this one
step at a time.”  Newark to Monroe  The suspension affects all cameras installed in  Newark ,
Linden, Wayne, Palisades Park, Union Township, Springfield,
Roselle Park, Rahway, Englewood Cliffs, Pohatcong, Piscataway,
Edison, East Windsor, Lawrence,  Cherry Hill , Stratford, Monroe,
Brick and Glassboro. It also affects one camera each in  Jersey
City  and Woodbridge.  Twelve cameras in Jersey City and three in Woodbridge will
continue issuing tickets, along with those in Deptford, East
Brunswick, Gloucester and  New Brunswick .  A permanent ban on all red-light cameras is needed, said
Senator Michael Doherty, a Republican from Warren County who
sponsors legislation that would prohibit the use of such
equipment in New Jersey. Red-light cameras are an invasion of
privacy and don’t result in less accidents, he has said.  “If safety is truly the goal, there are simple steps that
towns could take to fix dangerous intersections, such as
increasing the length of yellow lights,” Doherty said in a
statement today. “The fact that simple fixes continue to be
ignored while ticket revenues continue to flow into town coffers
makes you wonder if safety is really the goal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  