-- News Corp. to Cut Jobs, Restructure its Australian Unit
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-06-20T04:29:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/news-corp-to-cut-jobs-restructure-its-australian-unit.html
News Corp. (NWS) , controlled by  Rupert
Murdoch , said it will cut jobs and restructure its Australian
operations on the same day it offered to buy  Consolidated Media
Holdings Ltd. (CMJ)  for A$2 billion ($2 billion).  News Ltd. will reduce staff via redundancies and attrition
as it consolidates divisions to five from 19, the unit’s Chief
Executive Officer Kim Williams said in a video address to staff
broadcast by  Sky News  today. It will introduce new computer
systems and streamline editorial desks to trim costs amid a
downturn in advertising.  “We must change to create a viable and sustainable
future,” Williams said, without detailing the number or timing
of job cuts. “We are taking confident measures that are right
for our future success.”  News Ltd., Murdoch’s Australian unit that controls more
than half of the nation’s newspapers, is the latest media group
to revamp its publications and eliminate staff as the rise of
online platforms erodes demand for printed versions. Sydney-
based  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ)  this week said it would cut 22 percent
of its workforce, close printing sites and charge for online
content.  “These kinds of cuts and changes are reasonably
inevitable, so the fact that they’re addressing how they can
change their structure is a positive,”  Angus Gluskie , who helps
manage more than $350 million at White Funds Management in
Sydney, said before News Ltd.’s announcement. “The difficult
thing is having to make these changes in the midst of an
advertising downturn, but advertising conditions won’t remain as
tough as they are right now.”  A new editorial system will allow news stories to be
published across several platforms including print, web and
tablet, Williams said. He also confirmed the purchase of
Australian Independent Business Media, publisher of the Business
Spectator and Eureka Report websites.  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Australian-listed  shares  climbed 0.6 percent
to A$20.15 as of 2:22 p.m. in Sydney. The company today offered
to pay A$3.50 a share for Consolidated Media, 14 percent more
than yesterday’s closing price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  