-- Norway Keeps Main Rate Unchanged as Euro Crisis Deepens
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-06-20T13:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/norway-keeps-main-rate-unchanged-as-euro-crisis-deepens-1-.html
Norway ’s central bank left its  main
interest rate  close to a record low for a second meeting as
policy makers try to protect the world’s third-richest economy
per capita from the fallout of Europe’s deepening debt crisis.  The overnight deposit rate was held at 1.50 percent, the
Oslo-based bank said today. The move was forecast by all 18
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The bank cut rates by 0.75
percentage point over two meetings in December and March.  The analyses “imply a key policy rate at about today’s
level towards the end of 2012,” Governor Oeystein Olsen said in
a statement.  “Thereafter, the key policy rate is projected to
rise gradually towards a more normal level. However, there is
considerable uncertainty surrounding economic developments.”  Policy makers are putting concerns that  Europe  will fail to
tame its debt crisis ahead of the risk that low rates will
overheat the domestic economy. Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen urged euro-zone leaders this month to step up efforts to
end the turmoil as bank funding comes under pressure. His
government has also pledged to rein in spending in an effort to
keep credit growth in check amid speculation Norway may be in
the grip of a housing bubble.  Krone Gains  The krone rose 0.5 percent to 7.502 per euro, while the
country’s benchmark three-year yield rose five basis points to
1.45 percent as of 2:08 p.m.in Oslo  Norwegian policy makers raised their forecast for the rate
to 1.57 percent by March, from an earlier forecast of 1.50
percent. The estimate for where the rate will be in June was
increased to 1.69 percent from 1.54 percent.  According to Gizem Kara, an economist at BNP Paribas SA,
the forecast puts the bank in line to raise rates in the first
quarter.  “Unless there is a significant increase in uncertainty
regarding developments in the eurozone, the risk to this view is
if domestic economic conditions strengthen more than we
expect,” Kara said in a note. “This could more than offset the
impact of a strong krone on inflation and lead to a further
increase in inflationary pressures than we currently envisage.
In this case, the Norges Bank would start its hiking cycle
earlier, in the fourth quarter this year.”  Accelerating Growth  As the  euro zone  slides into a recession, Norway’s economic
growth is accelerating thanks to record investments in its
offshore oil and gas fields. Low borrowing costs and falling
unemployment have fueled consumption and household borrowing.
 Consumer confidence  rose to a 12-month high this quarter, while
 home prices  rose an annual 7 percent last month, and are up
almost 30 percent since 2008.  The bank today said it expected the mainland economy,
excluding oil and gas output, to grow 3.75 percent this year and
3.25 percent next year, up from March forecasts of 3.25 percent
and 3 percent, respectively. Consumer prices will rise 1 percent
this year and 1.75 percent next year.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , who has cut
the bank’s benchmark to a record-low 1 percent, said June 6 that
“a few” policy makers on his board called for a cut, fueling
speculation the ECB may act as soon as next month.  The crisis in the 17-member currency union will feed
through to the Norwegian economy through weaker exports and
financial market turbulences, Johnsen said this week, adding
there is “large uncertainty.”  Policy makers in Norway have emphasized their reluctance to
widen the rate gap to Europe. A bigger difference would attract
investors to the krone, which would raise the price of exports
and keep inflation below the bank’s 2.5 percent target.
Inflation has stayed below that target since July 2009.  The krone has weakened 1 percent against the euro since
March 13, the day before the bank’s last rate cut. It reached a
nine-year high against the euro earlier that month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  