-- NYC’s Savoy Park Is Sold to Citigroup-Led Housing Fund
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-06-20T21:42:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/nyc-s-savoy-park-is-sold-to-citigroup-led-housing-fund.html
A real estate fund created by
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and L&M Development Partners bought New York’s
Savoy Park apartment complex, resolving the troubled mortgage on
the 1,800-unit property.  The complex sold for more than $210 million, the
outstanding balance on the delinquent senior mortgage,
satisfying the loan, according to a person with knowledge of the
deal who asked not to be named because the terms weren’t public.
The sellers are AREA Property Partners LP and Vantage Properties
LLC, which bought the property in 2006, near the peak of the
commercial real estate market.  The rent-regulated complex of seven apartment buildings
between 139th and 142nd Streets in Harlem will remain as
affordable housing, according to a statement today by the
buyers. The deal was done under a venture formed by Citigroup
and L&M in 2010 known as the  New York  Affordable Housing
Preservation Fund.  “We are committed to preserving affordability and
upholding the unique culture and vibrancy of the Savoy Park
community,” David Dishy, president of the fund, said in the
statement.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Vantage, confirmed the
sale.  Special Servicer  Vantage and AREA paid $175 million for Savoy Park in 2006
and borrowed against the property the following year, adding
$367.5 million of debt, including a $210 million senior mortgage
that was packaged into bonds and sold to investors.  The joint venture was unable to raise lease rates at the
rent-regulated property high enough to cover the debt service,
prompting a transfer in 2010 of the senior loan to a so-called
special servicer, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Special servicers negotiate with distressed-property owners on
behalf of commercial-mortgage bondholders.  The complex, which was valued at $420 million in 2007, was
appraised at $153.3 million in 2011, Bloomberg data show.  “We are pleased the property is transitioning to excellent
new owners that will continue to maintain Savoy Park as a model
community for families in Central Harlem,” said Neil Rubler,
president and chief executive officer of Vantage.  An affiliate of L&M will take over management of Savoy Park
from Vantage Properties, according to the statement. L&M has
built more than $2 billion of apartment housing in the New York
metro region, totaling more than 10,000 units.  Vantage owns and operates 5,000 apartment units in  New York
City , as well as 2,200 in central  New Jersey  that it acquired
from  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  in 2011. AREA has
invested about $13 billion of equity in more than 500
transactions, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  