-- Obama Asserts Executive Privilege on Gun Probe Documents
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-06-20T15:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/obama-asserts-executive-privilege-on-u-s-gun-probe-documents.html
The Obama administration told a U.S.
House panel that the president is asserting executive privilege
and refusing to turn over documents sought by lawmakers related
to a U.S. law enforcement gun operation.  The  Justice Department  described President  Barack Obama ’s
position in a letter today to Representative  Darrell Issa , a
California Republican, who is chairman of the House Oversight
and Government Reform Committee. The panel is scheduled to vote
today over whether Attorney General Eric Holder should be held
in contempt of Congress for failing to provide documents sought
by Issa’s panel.  Issa, as the committee meeting began, said Obama’s move was
an “untimely assertion” that “falls short of any reason to
delay today’s proceedings.” Issa said the committee was
proceeding with the contempt vote because Obama hadn’t invoked
executive privilege in a formal communication with the House.  The committee action would be the latest escalation in a
standoff that began last year between Republican lawmakers and
the Obama administration over Fast and Furious, a law
enforcement operation that allowed illegal gun purchases in the
U.S. an an effort to link the weapons to Mexican drug cartels.
Guns in the program ended up “lost” and will turn up at crime
scenes on both sides of the U.S.-Mexico border for years, Holder
told lawmakers last year.  Executive Privilege  Executive privilege is a principle that says the executive
branch can’t be forced by the legislative branch to disclose
confidential communications when they would harm operations.  Documents responsive to the House panel’s subpoena relate
to “sensitive law enforcement activities, including ongoing
criminal investigations and prosecutions,” said Deputy Attorney
General  James Cole  in the letter to Issa.  In a letter to the president released by the White House,
Holder argued that giving up the documents sought by the panel
“would inhibit the candor” of deliberations within the
executive branch. He said documents “were generated in the
course of the deliberative process” and as a result “the need
to maintain their confidentiality is heightened.”  The Justice Department says it already has provided more
than 7,600 pages of documents in the case. Issa is seeking
additional material.  This is the first time Obama has invoked executive
privilege, according to the White House.  Earlier Cases  Former President  George W. Bush  invoked executive privilege
six times during his presidency, according to a White House
statement.  Bush asserted executive privilege to block release of
documents and testimony under oath by then White House counsel
Harriet Miers and other top aides on the administration’s firing
in 2006 of nine federal prosecutors. Under a deal later brokered
by the Obama administration, the aides, including Bush political
adviser  Karl Rove , gave testimony in private.  After learning of the tactics used in Operation Fast and
Furious, Holder asked the Justice Department’s inspector general
to look into the matter. That probe continues. The department
expects that report will help officials “understand how these
mistakes occurred and to ensure that they do not occur again,”
Cole said in the letter.  Republican Response  Republicans said that Obama’s assertion of executive
privilege raised questions about the extent of what he knew
about Fast and Furious.  “Until now, everyone believed that the decisions regarding
Fast and Furious were confined to the  Department of Justice ,”
 Michael Steel , a spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner  of
 Ohio , in a statement.  Two of about 2,000 guns that the Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives allowed to be carried away were
found at the scene of the December 2010 murder of U.S. Border
Patrol agent Brian Terry in  Arizona , according to a
congressional report.  Holder has said he didn’t learn of the tactics in the
operation until after it was the subject of news reports.  Holder last year told a Senate hearing that he regretted a
Feb. 4, 2011 letter the Justice Department sent lawmakers that
indicated the ATF hadn’t “knowingly allowed” the tactics in
the law enforcement operation to be employed. Information in the
letter turn out to be inaccurate, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  