-- Obama Brings Home Pledges Not Actions From G-20 Summit in Mexico
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-06-20T04:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/obama-brings-home-pledges-not-actions-from-g-20-summit-in-mexico.html
President  Barack Obama  left an
economic summit with pledges from European leaders of renewed
urgency to tackle the continent’s sovereign debt crisis which
threatens growth worldwide.  He carried back to the U.S. and his re-election campaign no
clear accomplishment to show voters, as meetings with Russian
and Chinese leaders didn’t produce a compromise on dealing with
other international crises such as the violence in Syria or the
Iranian nuclear program.  At a press conference concluding the two-day summit of the
Group of 20 nations yesterday, Obama expressed confidence Europe
will stop the continent’s spreading debt crisis. Euro zone
leaders showed “a heightened sense of urgency” at the meeting,
he said.  Over the next several weeks, European leaders will “paint
a picture of where we need to go” and “take some immediate
steps” to demonstrate resolve to financial markets, Obama said.  “If people have a sense of where they are going, that can
provide confidence to break the fever,” he added.  The summit in the beach resort of Los Cabos,  Mexico , was
Obama’s last scheduled foreign trip before the U.S. election in
November. The president devoted the trip to pressing foreign
leaders to stimulate growth in the global economy and to take
decisive action on the debt crisis.  European Customers  “If fewer folks are buying stuff in Paris or Berlin,” he
said, “that means that we’re selling less stuff made in
Pittsburgh or Cleveland.” Weak growth in the  U.S. economy , with
unemployment remaining above 8 percent, is the main issue of
former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , the presumptive
Republican nominee, to use against Obama.  Obama met on the sidelines of the summit with euro zone
leaders as well as Russian President  Vladimir Putin  and Chinese
President  Hu Jintao .  After a victory in Greek elections on June 17 for political
parties that support a European bailout and austerity plan,
financial markets turned on  Spain  as the summit opened. Spanish
10-year bond yields leaped above the 7 percent level that pushed
Greece, Ireland and Portugal to call for sovereign rescues for
the first time since the euro’s creation.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said earlier in
the day that European leaders will take steps in the coming days
to help the region “grow faster.” He said the Europeans are
trying to “design a framework” for “a stronger set of
institutions,” including a banking union, in time for a
European summit later this month. Geithner said a European Union
summit on June 28-29 will be “critical.”  Obama said he discussed the violence in  Syria  with Putin
and Jintao, both of whom have acted to protect Syrian leader
Bashar al-Assad in the  United Nations Security Council .  He said the Russian and Chinese leaders recognize the
situation in Syria “does not serve their interests,” though he
stopped short of saying they are ready to abandon Assad.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Los Cabos, Mexico at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Los Cabos, Mexico at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  