-- Obama Leads in Poll as Voters View Romney as Out of Touch
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-06-20T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/obama-leads-in-poll-as-voters-view-romney-as-out-of-touch.html
Barack Obama  has opened a
significant lead over  Mitt Romney  in a Bloomberg National Poll
that reflects the presumed Republican nominee’s weaknesses more
than the president’s strengths.  Obama leads Romney 53 percent to 40 percent among likely
voters, even as the public gives him low marks on handling the
economy and the  deficit , and six in 10 say the nation is headed
down the wrong track, according to the poll conducted June 15-
18.  The survey shows Romney, a former Massachusetts governor,
has yet to repair the damage done to his image during the
Republican primary. Thirty-nine percent of Americans view him
favorably, about the same as when he announced his presidential
candidacy last June, while 48 percent see him unfavorably -- a
17-percentage point jump during a nomination fight dominated by
attacks ads. A majority of likely voters, 55 percent, view him
as more out of touch with average Americans compared with 36
percent who say the president is more out of touch.  Taken together, the results suggest an unsettled political
environment for both Obama and Romney five months from the
November election, with voters choosing for now to stick with a
president they say is flawed rather than backing a challenger
they regard as undefined and disconnected.  Importance of Turnout  “You can see in these data how important turnout will
be,” says J. Ann Selzer of  Des Moines , Iowa-based Selzer & Co.
who directed the poll. “Those most enthusiastic about the
election are more supportive of Romney, but Obama’s voters are
more locked into their candidate than Romney’s. Building resolve
to vote and making the vote stick is job one, and both
candidates face obstacles toward getting that done.”  The presidential race is roughly tied among the most
enthusiastic voters, 49 percent of whom back Romney compared
with 48 percent for Obama. Still, Romney inspires far less
enthusiasm even among his supporters than does Obama, with 35
percent of Romney backers saying their support for him is “very
strong,” compared with 51 percent of Obama backers who say so.  “I would rather choose to vote for someone else, but
there’s no one but Obama,” says John Sunde, a 57-year-old
Verizon central office technician from Brentwood, New York, when
asked which candidate would get his vote. “He hasn’t fulfilled
a lot of his campaign promises, but I would vote for him anyway
because Romney would be extremely destructive for this
country.”  Could Do Worse  Sunde, an independent, gives Obama low grades for dealing
with the economy yet says Romney would do worse. “His
perspective is you just let the free market take care of
everything, and we’ll go right down the toilet drain, and
everything -- all the jobs -- will go straight to  Asia ,” Sunde
says of Romney.  The poll of 1,002 adults has a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.1 percentage points for the full sample. Questions asked
of the 734 likely voters have a margin of error of plus or minus
3.6 percentage points. Its findings are at odds with other
recent national surveys that have found the two candidates tied
or shown a slight advantage for Obama or Romney.  Poll Details  Thirty-eight percent of those surveyed in Bloomberg’s poll
say they consider themselves Democrats or independents who lean
that way and 33 percent consider themselves Republicans or
independents who lean Republican, a 5-point Democratic
advantage. In 2008, the presidential election exit polls showed
the Democrats with a 7-point advantage.  The Democratic advantage in the Washington Post’s May poll
sample was 10 points, while the one in the  New York  Times’ April
survey was 8 points and the Wall Street Journal’s May poll was 7
points.  In the Bloomberg Poll, 53 percent of those surveyed were
women and 67 percent were white, in line with other national
polls. Obama fares better among white voters than he does in
other surveys, drawing support from 43 percent compared with 50
percent backing Romney.  Beyond Romney’s low favorability ratings, the poll reflects
perceived weaknesses for the Republican challenger both in style
and substance. Only 31 percent of likely voters say they’d want
to sit next to Romney on a long airplane flight, compared with
57 percent who prefer Obama as a seat mate.  Romney Weak Spots  About a third of likely voters rate Romney best at
understanding their problems and struggles, and dealing with
world leaders, while Obama draws majorities on both. And just 34
percent of respondents prefer Romney to Obama in appearing
regularly on their TV and computer screens for the next four
years; the president is the pick of 54 percent. Obama’s
favorability ratings are the reverse of Romney’s, with 55
percent of Americans viewing the president positively, while 42
percent don’t.  In a bad sign for Obama, a much smaller plurality, 48
percent, of likely voters say he would be best at getting the
economy going, while 43 percent say Romney would do better.  Fifty-three percent of Americans approve of the job Obama
is doing in the White House -- the first time since March 2011
that he has broken the historic 50 percent threshold for U.S.
presidents who have won re-election; 44 percent disapprove of
his service.  His performance rating on creating  jobs  -- 46 percent
approve, while 48 percent disapprove -- matches its high mark in
July 2010, and has risen 10 points from his low point in
September 2011. A plurality of 45 percent of Americans identify
jobs and unemployment as the “most important issue” facing the
country.  Obama Warning Signs  More troubling for Obama’s re-election bid, just 31 percent
say the nation is headed in the right direction compared with 62
percent who say it’s on the wrong track.  On the economy, just 43 percent approve of Obama’s
performance, compared with 53 who disapprove. He fares even more
poorly on the  budget  deficit, where 60 percent disapprove of the
job he’s doing compared with 32 percent who approve.  “Obama is the lesser of two evils,” says Rosean Smith,
38, an independent voter from Columbus,  Ohio , who says Obama
faced unrealistic expectations on the economy. “He was
basically handed a sick drug baby and expected to make a genius
out of it overnight.”  Smith, a graduate student and mother of six who says she
has applied for 80 jobs in the last eight months and landed
none, says while Obama is “way in over his head” on the
economy, she doesn’t trust Romney to do better.  Best Background  The poll also undercuts Romney’s central argument for his
candidacy, suggesting that his background as a private-equity
executive isn’t seen by voters as his greatest strength. Asked
to name the most important qualification on Romney’s resume, a
plurality of 41 percent cite his experience as governor of
 Massachusetts , while 34 percent say it’s his business experience
at the Boston-based firm Bain Capital LLC.  Jeff Angleton, a 40-year-old  construction  business owner in
Haxtun,  Colorado , who is backing Romney, says he has had to fire
27 of the 52 people who work at his company because of lack of
projects. Angleton, an independent, says he is “scared” of
what the future holds if Obama stays in office, though not
confident that things will get better if Romney takes the White
House.  “I think the guy is a little bit out of touch, because he
has too much money to understand what a guy like me deals
with,” Angleton says of Romney.  Creating Jobs  Likely voters are split over whether Romney’s business
experience made him better-prepared to create jobs as president,
with 49 percent saying it doesn’t and 45 percent saying it does.  They are also divided on whether it’s a good idea to elect
a corporate chief executive officer as president, with 44 saying
it is while 40 percent say it’s not.  Asked how they plan to vote for Congress, 48 percent of
likely voters say they’d choose a Democrat compared with 41
percent who would back a Republican. The  Democratic Party  also
scores better than its counterpart, with 50 percent of Americans
viewing it favorably while 43 percent don’t. The  Republican
Party ’s favorability rating drops 3 percentage points from
Bloomberg’s March poll to 41 percent, while its unfavorability
stands at 50 percent.  The public also has a much rosier view of the last
Democratic president than it does the last Republican. Former
President  Bill Clinton  is viewed favorably by 69 percent and
unfavorably by 25 percent, while former President  George W. Bush 
is seen favorably by 44 percent compared with 51 percent who
view him negatively.  Donald Trump , who stood beside Romney at a Las Vegas
fundraiser last month and says he’s still skeptical about the
authenticity of Obama’s U.S. birth certificate, is seen
favorably by 33 percent. Fifty-five percent have an unfavorable
view of the real estate magnate and reality TV star who flirted
with his own presidential run before backing the presumptive
Republican nominee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  