-- Romney Reaps Donations From Backers of Primary Opponents
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-06-21T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/obama-spends-more-than-he-raises-as-aides-see-romney-advantage.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney , since becoming his party’s presumptive nominee, is
now taking in cash from donors who had backed his onetime
rivals, campaign finance reports show.  The  $23.4 million  Romney raised last month included
$634,495 from 225 contributors who earlier gave the maximum
$2,500 to the presidential campaigns of former U.S. House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich , former U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum , or
Texas Governor  Rick Perry , according to a computer-assisted
analysis of Federal Election Commission data. Romney faces
President  Barack Obama  in November.  In addition, casino executive  Sheldon Adelson  and his
family, who had contributed $21.5 million to a political action
committee supporting Gingrich, gave $10 million in June to a
pro-Romney super-PAC, Restore Our Future. Texas businessman
Robert Brockman, who earlier had given $50,000 to a pro-Perry
super-PAC through one of his companies, gave $1 million through
three other companies to the super-PAC supporting Romney, a
former Massachusetts governor.  “Republicans across the board are excited about Governor
Romney’s candidacy,” said Andrea Saul, a Romney campaign
spokeswoman. “Voters understand that this is an important
election.”  Private Financing  Several donors gave $5,000 to Romney, who became the first
Republican since  Richard Nixon  in 1972 to raise private money
for the general election. Following the Watergate break-in
scandal that led to Nixon’s resignation in 1974, Congress
offered public financing to candidates who agreed to forgo
raising private money, and every major-party nominee except
Obama in 2008 took the federal funds. This year both campaigns
will be funded entirely with private money.  Romney entered June with $17 million in the bank, one-sixth
of the $109.7 million  amassed  by Obama. That gap was narrowed as
the  Republican National Committee  reported $60.8 million cash on
hand, more than double the  Democratic National Committee ’s $29.7
million.  In May, the first full month since Romney was assured of
winning the nomination, he received $7.1 million and the RNC
$25.9 million from a joint fundraising committee. Obama brought
in $8.7 million and the DNC $13.3 million from a similar
fundraising apparatus, which allows donors give larger
contributions at one time.  Candidates’ Totals  Obama has now raised $261.4 million for his re-election and
Romney $123.6 million. Four years ago at this time, Obama had
raised $296.6 million and had $43.1 million in the bank.  The Democratic National Committee outraised its Republican
counterpart, $189.2 million to $169.4 million. The Republican
committee whittled down the $23 million debt that chairman
Reince Priebus inherited to $9.9 million.  Obama’s comments on May 9 that gay couples should be able
to marry may have boosted his fundraising, the FEC reports
suggest. He took in more than six times as much money on the day
of his announcement as he did the day before, $1.8 million
compared with $282,404.  “It is important for me to go ahead and affirm that I
think same-sex couples should be able to get married,” Obama
said in an ABC News interview. That day, his campaign started an
e-mail fundraising blitz tied to gay marriage. The money bump
continued the next day, with the campaign raking in another $1.6
million.  Clooney Fundraiser  On May 10, Obama dined at actor George Clooney’s Los
Angeles house -- an event that campaign officials said raised a
total of $15 million for the president, the DNC and state
parties.  Among those giving to the joint fundraising committee were
fashion designer Vera Wang;  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Liveris; actors Kirk Douglas, Billy Crystal and  Eddie Murphy ; actresses Reese Witherspoon and Meryl Streep; and Edsel B. Ford II, a director and consultant to the
 Ford Motor Co. (F) , which his great-grandfather founded.  Obama’s largest company source of donations came from
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  employees, who gave him $67,933, according to a
computer-assisted analysis of FEC campaign data. Romney received
$72,968 from employees of  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   In the month when  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  revealed a $2
billion trading loss, employees of the largest U.S. bank by
assets gave Romney $45,214 and Obama $21,220.  Obama took in $39.1 million in May and spent $44.6 million,
while Romney spent $15.6 million.  Money Race  The proliferation of super-PACs and nonprofit groups that
support Romney has Obama campaign officials concerned that the
president will lose the money race in his re-election bid.  “The other side is going to outspend us with the help of
undisclosed, special interest allies and funders that are
cutting $10 million checks while our average donation in May was
$55,” said Katie Hogan, an Obama campaign spokeswoman. “The
more people we can get involved and the more supporters who take
ownership of this campaign, the stronger we will be on Election
Day.”  Obama’s political advisers told reporters they expect
Romney to wind up with a money advantage as the outside groups
supporting the co-founder of the Boston-based private-equity
firm Bain Capital LLC spend as much as $1 billion. The advisers,
who asked for anonymity to discuss tactics, said they are braced
for a close election and counting on their political
organization to turn out voters in critical states.  Pro-Obama Group  Priorities USA Action, a super-PAC backing Obama, raised $4
million in May, including $1 million each from Houston lawyer
Steve Mostyn, Washington developer Franklin Haney and Florida
retiree Barbara Stiefel. The PAC began June with $4.5 million in
the bank and said it has raised another $4 million this month.  Offering Romney an advantage, American Crossroads, a
Republican super-PAC founded with the help of political
strategist  Karl Rove , entered June with $29.4 million in the
bank after raising $4.6 million last month.  Joseph Craft, the chairman and chief executive officer of
Tulsa, Oklahoma-based  Alliance Holdings GP LP (AHGP) , donated $1.25
million, and Dallas, Texas-based Crow Holdings LLC gave $1
million. Another co-founder of the PAC, former Republican
National Committee Chairman  Ed Gillespie , is now an adviser to
the Romney campaign.  The pro-Romney super-PAC Restore Our Future  reported  to the
FEC that it raised almost $5 million in May and had $8.4 million
cash on hand as of the end of the month.  Ron Paul  Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas raised $1.8 million in
May, more than half of it in contributions of $200 or less,
bringing his total to $40.8 million. He had $3.3 million in the
bank.  Paul announced May 14 that he would no longer spend money
to compete in the Republican presidential primaries. He reported
$969,622 in expenditures for the month.  Gingrich, who suspended his campaign on May 3, and
Santorum, who stepped aside on April 10, made little progress in
retiring their Republican presidential campaign debts. Gingrich
raised $495,233 last month and still owed $4.7 million. Santorum
took in $454,328 and reported debts of $1.9 million.  Winning Our Future, the super-PAC that had supported
Gingrich’s candidacy, refunded $5 million to Adelson’s wife,
Miriam. Sheldon Adelson is chairman and chief executive officer
of casino operator  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 