-- Oil Drops a Third Day in London on Crude Supply Increase
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-06-20T12:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/oil-drops-a-third-day-in-london-on-crude-supply-increase.html
Brent oil dropped for a third day in
 London  on speculation that U.S. supplies may have shrunk less
than estimated, while investors awaited the outcome of a Federal
Reserve meeting on monetary policy.  Brent futures lost as much as 0.9 percent, and the U.S.
benchmark West Texas Intermediate fell 0.7 percent. An industry
report yesterday showed U.S. crude stockpiles fell 550,000
barrels. That decline is less than the 1.3 million forecast by
analysts before an Energy Department report. The Fed concludes a
two-day meeting in  Washington  today.  “Energy markets are stuck near the lows” from this week,
Ole Hansen, senior manager of trading advisory at Saxo Bank A/S,
said by phone from Copenhagen. “Everyone’s sitting on the
fence, watching the markets, not prepared to commit themselves
at this point.”  Brent crude  for August settlement was at $95.28 a barrel,
down 48 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange
at 1:33 p.m. local time. The front-month price for the European
benchmark contract was at a  premium  to West Texas Intermediate
of $10.95, compared with $11.41 yesterday.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , oil for July delivery,
which expires today, was at $84.08 a barrel, 5 cents higher, in
electronic trading. It rose 0.9 percent yesterday to $84.03, the
highest close since June 15. The more-actively traded August
contract fell 2 cents to $84.33 a barrel. Front-month prices are
down 15 percent this year.  Fed Stimulus  The U.S. central bank is forecast to announce additional
stimulus measures as soon as this week’s meeting, according to
12 of the 21 primary dealers who trade with the Fed.  In  Europe , where financial woes have raised concern about
economic recovery and future energy demand, Spain is scheduled
to sell debt tomorrow maturing in 2014, 2015 and 2017. Yields on
the nation’s 10-year government debt increased to 7.29 percent
on June 18, the highest level since the euro was introduced in
1999. While yields eased yesterday, they remained above the 7
percent level that pushed Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to seek
rescue packages.  “WTI prices could be more vulnerable to a sell-off should
the Fed disappoint, with bad news from Europe priced into the
Brent market,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Melbourne, said in
a report today.  Higher Inventories  Crude stockpiles at Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point
for  New York  futures, rose 625,000 barrels to a record last
week, data from the  American Petroleum Institute  showed.
Gasoline inventories increased  1.1 million barrels , compared
with a forecast gain of 1 million barrels in today’s government
report, according to the median estimate of 11 analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey. Distillate supplies, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, slid 269,000 barrels compared
with a projected gain of 1 million.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  Iran  and world powers failed to reach a breakthrough after
two days of talks in Moscow aimed at alleviating the threat of
military action against the second-biggest oil producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Western powers contend Iran is hiding a nuclear-weapons
program, and the U.S. and  Israel  have declined to discount the
possibility of strikes against atomic installations.  Downplaying Iran  “It’s not really having much of an impact because we’re
seeing slowing demand,” Hansen of Saxo Bank said. He doesn’t
expect the European Union ban on Iranian oil imports, which
takes full effect July 1, to cause major difficulties in the
market.  OPEC’s decision last week to leave its crude production
ceiling unchanged gives flexibility to  Saudi Arabia  to cut
output depending on demand, according to former Algerian Oil
Minister  Chakib Khelil .  Demand is still increasing from China, India and Japan,
though there are uncertainties over Europe’s debt crisis, Khelil
said in an interview with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  