-- Holder Cited for Contempt by U.S. House Panel in Vote
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-06-20T21:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/holder-cited-for-contempt-by-u-s-house-panel-in-vote.html
A U.S. House committee brushed aside
President  Barack Obama ’s claim of executive privilege and held
Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress for failing
to turn over documents related to a law enforcement effort to
track guns to Mexican drug cartels.  In a party-line vote, the Republican majority on the House
Oversight and Government Reform panel voted to approve the first
contempt citation for a Cabinet member in 14 years. Republicans
said Holder failed to comply with a subpoena for documents in
the Fast and Furious gun operation, which allowed illegally
purchased firearms from the U.S. to wind up in  Mexico .  The 23-17 committee vote marks an escalation in a standoff
that began last year between Republican lawmakers and the Obama
administration. Republican leaders said the full House will vote
on the measure next week, setting up a potential referral of the
case to the U.S. attorney in Washington to determine whether
prosecution is warranted.  “While we had hoped it would not come to this, unless the
attorney general reevaluates his choice and supplies the
promised documents, the House will vote to hold him in contempt
next week,” House Speaker  John Boehner  and Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  said in a statement. “If, however, Attorney General
Holder produces these documents prior to the scheduled vote, we
will give the Oversight Committee an opportunity to review in
hopes of resolving this issue.”  Internal Discussions  The House panel, led by Republican Representative  Darrell Issa  of  California , is seeking documents describing internal
Justice Department discussions about a February 2011 letter to
lawmakers that Holder later said mistakenly contained incorrect
information.  The Justice Department says it already has provided more
than 7,600 pages of documents in the case. Holder called the
committee’s vote “an election-year tactic intended to distract
attention.”  “Unfortunately, Chairman Issa has rejected all of these
efforts to reach a reasonable accommodation,” Holder said in a
statement after the vote. “Instead, he has chosen to use his
authority to take an extraordinary, unprecedented and entirely
unnecessary action, intended to provoke an avoidable conflict
between Congress and the Executive Branch.”  This is the first time Obama has invoked executive
privilege, according to the White House.  Executive privilege is a principle that says the executive
branch can’t be forced by the legislative branch to disclose
confidential communications when they would harm operations.  ‘Sensitive’ Activities  Documents responsive to the House panel’s subpoena relate
to “sensitive law enforcement activities, including ongoing
criminal investigations and prosecutions,” Deputy Attorney
General  James Cole  said in a letter today to Issa.  Guns in Fast and Furious ended up “lost” and will turn up
at crime scenes on both sides of the U.S.-Mexico border for
years, Holder told lawmakers last year.  Two of about 2,000 guns that the Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives allowed to be carried away were
found at the scene of the December 2010 murder of U.S. Border
Patrol agent Brian Terry in  Arizona , according to a
congressional report.  Holder has said he didn’t learn of the tactics in the
operation until after it was the subject of news reports. Since
then, he has banned the use of similar law enforcement methods.  Inaccurate Information  Holder last year told a Senate hearing that he regretted a
Feb. 4, 2011, letter the  Justice Department  sent lawmakers that
indicated the ATF hadn’t “knowingly allowed” the tactics in
the law enforcement operation to be employed. Information in the
letter turned out to be inaccurate, he said.  Dozens of Republican lawmakers have called on Holder to
resign over his handling of probes into the gun operation and
leaks of classified national security information. Republicans
have also criticized how the Justice Department under Holder has
prosecuted terror suspects and challenged state immigration and
voting laws.  In 1998, then-House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  opted against a
floor vote on contempt when the oversight panel cited Attorney
General Janet Reno for withholding documents related to a
campaign finance investigation.  “If Mr. Boehner takes this to the House, he will be seen
as one of the most extreme speakers ever,”  Elijah Cummings  of
 Maryland , the Oversight panel’s top Democrat, told reporters
after the vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in  Washington  at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  