-- Holder Contempt Vote Nears in House Panel Amid Standoff
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-06-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/holder-contempt-vote-nears-in-house-panel-amid-standoff.html
A U.S. House committee is scheduled
to vote today on whether to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in
contempt of Congress, the first such proceeding against the
Justice Department’s head since 1998.  After a meeting with Holder yesterday in Washington that
failed to produce a compromise, Representative  Darrell Issa , a
California Republican who is chairman of the House Oversight and
Government Reform panel, told reporters that a vote could still
be averted if the Justice Department provides documents.  “At this point, we simply do not have the documents we
have repeatedly said we need to justify the postponement of a
contempt vote in committee,” Issa said in a statement.  The contempt vote would be the latest escalation in a
standoff that began last year between Republican lawmakers and
Holder over Fast and Furious, a law enforcement operation
involving the sale of guns that ended up in  Mexico .  Dozens of Republican lawmakers have called on Holder to
resign over his handling of probes into the gun operation and
leaks of classified national security information. Republicans
have also criticized how the  Justice Department  under Holder has
prosecuted terror suspects and challenged state immigration and
voting laws.  Holder said yesterday he offered to turn over the documents
on condition that Issa give assurances that doing so would
satisfy the subpoena. The Justice Department already has
provided thousands of pages of documents, though not all of the
materials Issa requested.  Issa said the panel must evaluate the documents to
determine whether they comply with the subpoena.  Rare Procedure  “We need the documents to know whether or not he’s being
responsive,” Issa said. If Holder turns them over before the
committee meeting, Issa said he would be willing to delay the
contempt vote while the panel evaluates the material.  A committee contempt vote would be the first step in a
rarely used and drawn out process which is often resolved via
negotiations rather than in court, said Michael Madigan, an
attorney at Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP in Washington who
represents clients during congressional investigations.  If the committee approved the contempt citation, Republican
leaders would still have to decide whether to hold a House floor
vote and then refer the matter to the Justice Department for
prosecution.  Then-House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  opted against a floor vote
in 1998 when the oversight panel held Attorney General Janet Reno in contempt for withholding documents related to a campaign
finance investigation.  Civil Contempt  The Justice Department didn’t pursue criminal contempt
prosecutions in 2008 when the House held President  George W. Bush ’s chief of staff and a former White House counsel in
contempt during a congressional investigation of federal
prosecutor firings.  The House, controlled by Democrats at the time, filed a
civil contempt suit. Bush’s former counsel, Harriet Miers,
ultimately testified in private before the House Judiciary
Committee a year later in a deal brokered by the Obama
administration.  “It takes forever for that to work out,” said  Carl Tobias , a professor at the University of Richmond law school, in
a phone interview. “So part of it is how much does Issa want
the documents or can he live with half a loaf?”  On June 7, House Speaker  John Boehner  said, “All options
are on the table with regard to what may need to be done to hold
the  Department of Justice  accountable.”  Republican Focus  Yesterday, the speaker was asked if he was concerned that a
House vote to cite Holder for contempt of Congress would detract
from the Republican political message about  job creation . “Our
focus for the last 18 months has been on jobs and we’ve been
relentless about it,” Boehner said. The speaker didn’t address
the contempt issue.  Keeping attention focused on Holder’s Justice Department
helps Republicans politically by reinforcing the idea that the
Obama administration is ineffective and less transparent than
promised, said  John McLaughlin , a Republican pollster in
Blauvelt,  New York .  “He’s definitely become a liability to the
administration,” McLaughlin said.  Holder has politicized the Justice Department by pursuing
cases challenging state immigration and voting laws designed to
“curry favor” with Democratic constituencies, said
Representative Trey Gowdy, a South Carolina Republican.  “It’s calculated to help his boss’s re-election,” said
Gowdy, who serves on both the House Judiciary Committee and
Oversight panel.  Heads Spinning  Holder isn’t motivated by politics and is inevitably going
to anger Republicans by making difficult decisions on  voting
rights , gay marriage and immigration, said  Matthew Miller , who
served as Holder’s spokesman at the Justice Department between
2009 and 2011.  “All of those are things that make Republicans’ heads spin
and so in turn they come after him for it,” Miller said.  Every recent attorney general has become the target of the
opposing party’s politically-motivated Congressional oversight,
said Miller.  “Each side escalates it and each side responds when
they’re in power,” Miller said.  Holder said yesterday that the two sides were at an impasse
because Issa wouldn’t give him “an indication that, if we
provide the material, that would resolve the subpoena issue.”  “We are involved in political gamesmanship as opposed to
trying to get the information,” Holder told reporters as he
left the meeting with Issa in the Capitol.  ‘Amicable Resolution’  The Justice Department offered to provide documents, a
briefing explaining why others wouldn’t be included, and the
ability to ask follow-up questions, Deputy Attorney General
 James Cole , who attended the meeting, said in a letter later
sent to Issa.  “We had hoped that you shared our interest in bringing
this matter to an amicable resolution and we regret that you
rejected our extraordinary proposal to do so,” Cole said.  Criticism of Holder has intensified in recent weeks as
Republicans called for an independent prosecutor to investigate
leaks of classified information.  At least 115  House Republicans  have signed a “no
confidence” resolution, and two members of the Senate Judiciary
Committee said he should resign.  Holder said he has no intention of stepping down even as he
sounded a valedictory note when asked about his future plans at
a June 12 Senate Judiciary Committee hearing.  “I’ve lost some. I’ve won more than I lost,” Holder said.
“And I’m proud of the work that I’ve done.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seth Stern in  Washington  at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  