-- Holder Should Act Faster, Congress Less Furiously
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-20T22:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/holder-should-turn-over-fast-and-furious-memos.html
Democrats say efforts by the U.S.
House Oversight and Government Reform Committee to hold Attorney
General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress over a botched gun-
sting operation are a partisan stunt. They are right about the
politics. The committee is nevertheless right on the merits.  Holder should turn over the Justice Department documents
Congress has demanded.  Here’s why. The controversy stems from a misguided effort
to stem the flow of U.S. weapons to Mexican drug cartels.
Starting under the George W.  Bush administration , the Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives allowed thousands of
guns to be bought by so-called straw purchasers in the U.S. The
agency then attempted to track the firearms as they found their
way into the hands of Mexican traffickers.  Operation Fast and Furious, initiated in 2009, was the
largest and last of these “gunwalking” stings, involving more
than 2,000 firearms. It was a monumental failure: Only about a
third of the guns have been recovered, and two weapons involved
were found where U.S. Border Patrol agent Brian Terry was
fatally shot on Dec. 14, 2010.  The only way to salvage something positive from this fiasco
is to investigate what went wrong and learn from the mistakes.
Instead, the  Justice Department  seems intent on burying the
past. On Feb. 4, 2011, Assistant Attorney General Ronald Weich
sent a letter to Congress insisting that any allegation that the
“ATF ‘sanctioned’ or otherwise knowingly allowed the sale of
assault weapons to a straw purchaser who then transported them
to Mexico -- is false.” Holder repeatedly stated that he and
other top officials had no knowledge of the gunwalking
operations until after Terry’s death.  This line of defense dissolved after several ATF whistle-
blowers, supported by documents leaked to them by the U.S.
attorney for  Arizona , told the news media and Congress that
agency officials were fully aware that straw buyers were moving
guns into  Mexico . In December the department formally withdrew
the Feb. 4 letter, and Holder lamely told Congress that the
officials responsible for the false claims “did not know at the
time that the information that they provided was inaccurate.”
(On Wednesday, Holder also  retracted a statement  he had made to
the Senate Judiciary Committee that Michael Mukasey, an attorney
general in the Bush administration, had been briefed on similar
gunwalking operations during his tenure.)  Is it any wonder that Representative  Darrell Issa , the
California Republican who heads the oversight panel, wants
Holder to turn over internal documents that might explain how
the Justice Department came to realize its initial denials were
false?  Admittedly, Issa has handled the hearings divisively and
cynically. His committee’s Republican majority passed by party
line a resolution to hold Holder in criminal contempt, which the
 Barack Obama  administration has met with a claim of executive
privilege. Both sides may feel they have something to gain from
a high-profile partisan fight over constitutional prerogatives,
but it only distracts from the real issue at hand.  Congress has had a hard time enforcing contempt charges,
usually opting for negotiation, which would be the best result
here. Any deal should involve releasing the full cache of
documents. Holder and the administration have not made a
convincing case that there are national-security or law-
enforcement secrets at risk in the materials, which consist
primarily of e-mails exchanged within the administration.  All that matters in the end is for the public -- and the
family of Brian Terry -- to know as much as possible about what
went wrong with Operation Fast and Furious.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View.  Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Operation Fast and Furious 
and on why the  Fed needs to be more aggressive ;  Caroline Baum  on
the mistake  underlying the euro;   Michael Kinsley  on our love-
hate  relationship with leaks ;  Ezra Klein  on the news media’s
dreadful  horse-race coverage;  Carl Pope on  renewable energy in
emerging markets .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 