-- Hollande Says Europe Mulling Having ESM Buy Italian Bonds
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   G r e g   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-06-20T11:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/hollande-says-europe-seeks-ways-for-better-nations-to-fund-debt.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
pushed German leaders to use the European Union’s permanent
rescue fund to buy debt from countries such as  Italy  that have
taken steps to revamp their economies.  “Italy has launched an idea that deserved to be looked
at,” Hollande told reporters after a summit of Group of 20
leaders in Los Cabos,  Mexico . The proposal is for “virtuous
countries like Italy,” which have improved their  public
finances , to “be able to get funding for their debt” at better
rates than countries that didn’t make the same efforts.  “We’re looking at the ways and means” to use the European
Stability Mechanism, the 17-country euro region’s bailout fund,
“at these conditions,” Hollande said.  Germany  said that no
specific plans for Europe’s rescue funds to buy the bonds of
euro-area governments were discussed.  G-20 leaders held their second consecutive summit dominated
by the euro region crisis as officials told Europe to pull
together to overcome its debt crisis. With  Spain  readying a
request within days for as much as 100 billion euros ($127
billion) for its banks, the euro region pledged to take “all
necessary policy measures” to defend the currency union.  Firepower  Hollande expects to discuss the bond-buying proposal with
his German, Spanish and Italian counterparts when they meet in
 Rome  in June 22. There is no decision made yet on the proposal,
he said.  Among the range of crisis-fighting tools open to them, the
existing rescue facility and the permanent fund, due to come in
force in July, can buy sovereign bonds in the secondary market.
European Commission spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  said today there is
no indication of any country calling on the rescue fund to come
to their aid.  Bond purchases are like “financial paracetamol,” he said,
treating the symptoms without addressing deep-seated economic
problems.  The ESM will only have adequate firepower if it can borrow
from the  European Central Bank , said JPMorgan Chase & Co.
economist Malcolm Barr.  “Unless such purchases are attached to granting the ESM a
banking license, it is tough to see this idea being successful
if pursued,” Barr said in an e-mailed comment. “It is rather
disappointing that such a limited and unimaginative step should
be on the table at this stage. The crisis demands a more
profound response.”  No Question  Speaking in Mexico, Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  
knocked down a report in the  Daily Telegraph  that said bond 
purchases would be a vehicle to rescue both Spain and Italy.  In the case of Italy, “there isn’t even a question around
it,” he told reporters. In the case of Spain, the discussions
are limited to a bailout of banks, he said.  This week’s Rome meeting is to help prepare for a June 28-
29 European Union summit in Brussels where leaders will discuss
the path to tighter financial integration, including proposals
for closer cooperation on banks.  “I have faith in this process because on growth, on a
banking union and on linking solidarity and budget
responsibility, we have possibility of an agreement” in
Brussels, Hollande said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Los Cabos at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  