-- Olympus Considers Raising 50 Billion Yen to Boost Capital
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2012-06-21T03:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/olympus-considers-raising-50-billion-yen-to-boost-capital.html
Olympus Corp. (7733)  is considering raising
about 50 billion yen ($628 million) to boost capital that
declined by more than half after the Japanese camera maker
admitted to a 13-year accounting fraud.  The amount is a “rough guideline” as Olympus seeks
funding through a capital alliance or a public share sale,
President Hiroyuki Sasa said in an interview. Olympus resumed
talks in May on possible alliances with companies including  Sony
Corp. (6758) ,  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , Terumo Corp. and Fujifilm Holdings
Corp., and hasn’t narrowed the number of candidates, he said.  “We must take measures,” Sasa said. The chances Olympus
will form an alliance or sell  shares  to the public are
“50-50,” respectively, he said.  Foregoing an alliance would allow Olympus to pursue a
business strategy independently, while a tie-up may help
accelerate growth in its camera and medical businesses, Sasa
said. The president, who took office in April, is cutting 2,700
jobs and restructure plants to revive the company after the
scandal.  “We haven’t set the date for making decisions,” Sasa said
June 19 at Olympus’s headquarters in  Tokyo . “We want to come up
with a conclusion as soon as possible, even tomorrow if that’s
possible.”  The company’s  stock  rose 0.8 percent to 1,188 yen at 12:45
p.m. in Tokyo trading, extending its  gain this year  to 17
percent.  Olympus restated  earnings  last year, taking a $1.3 billion
cut in its total equity, after admitting it paid inflated fees
on takeovers and overpaid for three Japanese companies to
conceal past investment losses. Net assets fell to 43.8 billion
yen as of Dec. 31, from 151 billion yen reported in the previous
quarter, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Medical Devices  “Potential partners are drawn to the growth of Olympus’s
endoscope business,” said Tomoki Komiya, an analyst at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. “Olympus’s
marketing channel can help them win clients in expanding or
entering the medical-equipment industry.”  Olympus’s annual revenue from medical equipment climbed by
33 percent in the five years through March 2011, while sales at
the  imaging systems unit  that handled cameras declined,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The medical unit is Olympus’s biggest business and controls
75 percent of the global market for endoscopes, instruments that
let doctors look inside the body to help detect diseases such as
colorectal cancer.  Tokyo-based  Fujifilm (4901) , which makes cameras, flat-panel
materials, medical equipment and optical devices, is “the best
partner” for Olympus as the company can combine its X-ray and
ultrasound technology with Olympus’s medical businesses,
Shigehiro Nakajima, an executive vice president at Fujifilm,
said in January.  Potential Partners  The two companies together would control about 85 percent
of the market for tiny cameras used by doctors to see inside the
body, Fujifilm’s Chief Executive Officer Shigetaka Komori said
in an interview in February. However, Fujifilm wasn’t optimistic
Olympus would welcome its offer, he said at the time.  “Olympus will most likely to want to run the business by
itself,” Komori said.  Terumo, the biggest corporate shareholder of Olympus with a
2.5 percent stake, aims to strengthen the partnership, Shouji
Hatano, general manager of strategy planning at  Terumo (4543) , said
Jan. 30.  Panasonic President Fumio Ohtsubo and Sony President Kazuo
Hirai have declined to comment on possible tie-up with Olympus.  Sony is speeding up a move into health equipment by using
the edge its image sensors have over rivals, Hirai said earlier
this year.  Tie-Up Conditions  A tie-up with a company whose  businesses overlap  those of
Olympus may be difficult as it may require antitrust approval,
Sasa said. Accepting a parter who demands more than 30 percent
of the company would also be difficult, he said.  “What’s hard is to match our situation and the partner’s
aims at the same time,” said Sasa.  Olympus may opt to tie up with more than one company, he
said.  “There isn’t much to gain from partners for Olympus other
than boosting its capital base,” said Komiya. “It may be
better for Olympus to form a capital alliance with more than one
company to limit partners’ control.”  Olympus aims to increase its  operating margin  to at least
10 percent by March 2018 from 4.2 percent in the year ended
March 31, the company said June 8. The electronics maker plans
to boost its capital ratio to more than 30 percent by March
2017.  Strengthen Capital  “We must avoid the situation of not strengthening the
capital,” said Sasa. “It’s too much of risk in management’s
point of view.”  Without a capital injection, Olympus would face risk of
excessive debt as it promotes restructuring, Komiya said. “They
want to raise money with the least interference from the
partner.”  The company’s  stock  has dropped more than 50 percent since
former president  Michael Woodford  was dismissed Oct. 14, after
he publicly questioned fees paid by Olympus for takeovers.  Woodford settled a London lawsuit against his former
employer under whistle-blowing rules on May 29. Olympus settled
for 10 million pounds ($15.7 million), the company said June 8.  Founded in 1919 as a microscope and thermometer business,
Olympus produced its first camera in 1936 and its first
“gastrocamera,” a predecessor to the modern-day endoscope, in
1950, according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  