-- Lonely Hedge Fund Bullish on Greece Tries to Woo Investors
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-06-21T16:39:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/lonely-hedge-fund-bullish-on-greece-tries-to-woo-investors.html
As the founder of a hedge fund that
plans to buy nothing but Greek stocks, George Elliott is used to
being treated as a curiosity.  In March, Elliott met with the investment chief of a family
office in London who said within seconds of sitting down that
the firm had no interest in giving money to a hedge fund
wagering on  Greece . The executive merely wanted to hear his
story, Elliott, the founder of  Naftilia Asset Management Ltd. ,
said in a telephone interview from his office in Athens.  Elliott, 39, responded by asking a few questions of his
own, including whether the executive had invested in  Russia 
after its 1998 currency crisis, in  Argentina  10 years ago after
the nation defaulted on its debt or in the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  in March 2009, when the benchmark plunged to its lowest
point in 13 years. Finally, Elliott questioned whether the
family office’s investment chief had ever bought shares of Apple
Inc. In all cases, the answer was no.  “Then you are not qualified to be discussing Greece with
me because you have missed the best investment opportunities
over the past 20 years,” Elliott retorted.  After a lengthy discussion, the family office decided to
send a team to  Athens  to research Elliott’s investment thesis.
The firm eventually agreed to invest in Naftilia’s Greek
Opportunity Fund, said Elliott, declining to identify the family
office or its executives because his clients are private.  ‘Feeling Optimistic’  “It takes time to convince, but when you show them the
numbers and you really do not focus on the macro but the micro
of individual companies, then people start to get excited,”
said Elliott, who’s been raising money for the Greek fund since
October. “At the same time, we are extremely lonely. We are one
of the few people out there feeling optimistic.”  While Elliott declined to comment on how much money he has
raised for the Greek fund, a person with direct knowledge of the
matter said the total exceeds 50 million euros ($63 million).
Elliott also won’t discuss what stocks and industries he’s
researching other than saying he plans to avoid Greek banks. The
total amount Elliott would consider investing won’t exceed 250
million euros because the sell-off in Greek equities has put a
limit on how much money can be deployed. About 75 percent of
Greek companies have a market value of less than 50 million
euros, he said.  Most investors are dubious that anything tied to Greece
deserves comparison with the more than 600 percent gain for
Argentina’s  Merval index  since the end of 2001 or the growth of
 Apple (AAPL) , now the world’s most valuable company. The European
country is saddled with a fifth year of recession, an
unemployment rate of 21.9 percent, banks that have lost deposits
and concerns about a possible exit from the 17-nation euro bloc.  Greek Elections  Following the June 17 parliamentary elections in Greece,
new Prime Minister Antonis Samaras of the New Democracy party
has pledged to seek relief from austerity measures that have
hurt the economy while keeping European bailout funds flowing.
Harvinder Sian, a senior rates strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London, said there’s still a 90 percent
chance Greece will drop the euro within two years because of the
difficulty of cutting spending and civil-service jobs.  The  Athens Stock Exchange (ASE)  has plunged 88 percent since the
end of 2007 and the yield on 10-year Greek  government bonds  is
26 percent, compared with 1.6 percent for similar German bonds,
indicating that investors perceive the country at high risk of
default even though it restructured its debt in March.  MSCI Inc., whose stock indexes are tracked by investors
with about $7 trillion of assets, said yesterday that it will
review whether to reclassify Greece’s stock market as an
emerging market. Doing so would make Greece the first advanced
country to be cut to developing status.  ‘Huge Uncertainty’  “There’s a huge uncertainty about the clarity and the
sustainability of earnings” for Greek companies, said James Butterfill, who helps oversee about 40 billion pounds ($63
billion) as a global equity strategist at Coutts & Co. in
 London . “If you have a very high risk profile, then maybe you
can pick out opportunities. For the majority of our clients, you
would be adding a huge amount of volatility to the portfolio and
that’s hard to stomach.”  The biggest danger is picking the right time to purchase
stocks because of the risk that Greece can’t fulfill the
financial demands required to stay in the euro, Butterfill said.
Investors who move too early may find themselves holding shares
they bought in euros now trading in a weaker drachma, instantly
eroding much of the value, he said.  Naftilia manages about $400 million and has other  hedge
funds  focused on trading the stocks of global shipping and
nuclear energy companies. The name of the firm, which is
registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
derives from the Greek word for shipping.  Elliott’s Returns  Elliott’s main shipping fund, started in 2004, rose 29
percent in its first year and gained in the three following
years before dropping 26 percent in 2008 and 20 percent last
year, according to a person briefed on the company’s
performance.  Hedge funds  rose 9 percent on average in 2004, fell
19 in 2008 and lost 5.3 percent in 2011, according to Chicago-
based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Elliott had been based in Dubai until deciding to open an
office in his native Athens in October 2010, four months after
Greece received a 110 billion-euro rescue from the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund  to meet its bond
payments. Greece received a second bailout this year of 130
billion euros.  Investment Thesis  He did so based on a view that Greece’s debt crisis offered
huge profits for investors who were willing to take the risk and
that Naftilia needed an on-the-ground presence to research local
companies. Elliott has spent the past 18 months examining
corporate balance sheets, building a network of contacts in
government and the business community, hiring analysts from
banks and meeting with investors. In total, he and seven
colleagues are working on the Greek Opportunity Fund.  They are focusing on companies punished by the stigma of
being in Greece that generate most of their business outside the
country, and firms whose share prices may make them attractive
takeover targets.  “The whole premise behind the idea is that Greece has
technically defaulted within a strong currency,” said Elliott,
who studied  money management  at  City University  in London before
starting his finance career in 1997 as an investment banker at
Societe Generale SA. He also worked as a stock analyst at Marfin
Investment Group SA and as an investment manager for Prometheus
Gas SA, a Greek unit of Russia’s OAO Gazprom.  ‘Incredible’ Opportunity  “When Argentina defaulted, they had incredible returns on
the stock market but incredible volatility on the currency as
well so it was pretty hard to start making allocations,” he
said. “If Greece remains in the euro, we think this is going to
be an incredible investment opportunity from a risk-return
perspective.”  Conversely, the return of the drachma, which Elliott
predicts won’t happen, means investors could buy stocks more
cheaply.  Greece’s six-week political drama temporarily delayed
Naftilia’s plans. The Syriza party, which favors reneging on the
fiscal-tightening terms tied to Greece’s bailout, won enough
votes on May 6 elections to block the formation of a government.  Elliott held off buying Greek equities, determining that
the risk of doing so was too high without a government in place.
He has been sitting on the money he’s raised for the Greek fund
and not charging the fee that hedge funds typically bill to
investors to manage assets.  Lansdowne Partners  Naftilia isn’t completely alone among hedge funds seeing
opportunity in Greece. Lansdowne Partners LP, the biggest
European hedge fund that invests in stocks with about $11.6
billion under management, bought shares of Greek port companies
 Piraeus Port (PPA)  Authority SA and  Thessaloniki Port (OLTH)  Authority SA
during the first four months of the year, according to a
presentation obtained by Bloomberg News.  Piraeus Port, with a market value of 225 million euros,
sunk 25 percent as of yesterday since hitting a high this year
of 12.05 euros a share on Feb. 13. Thessaloniki Port, with a
market capitalization of 110.6 million euros, fell 15 percent
since also reaching a high on Feb. 13 of 12.98 euros a share.
Executives at London-based Lansdowne declined to comment on
their investments.  Some hedge funds have bought Greek sovereign debt because
they’ve been attracted by high yields, not necessarily a bullish
view on growth for the country or its companies. Finisterre
Capital LLP, a London-based hedge fund, has invested in Greek
government and corporate debt this year, said a person with
direct knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be identified
because the firm is private. Executives at the firm declined to
comment.  Investors Skeptical  Greylock Capital Management LLC purchased government bonds
after Greece’s investors agreed to forgive 100 billion euros of
debt in March, said Hans Humes, president of the New York-based
hedge fund. At prices before the June 17 elections, investors
could triple their money and had a downside risk of losing just
40 percent, he said. Still, it’s hard to convince hedge fund
clients to invest in situations such as Greece because they fear
being second-guessed, Humes said.  “If they put money in Greece and lose money, then their
bosses will say they shouldn’t have done it,” Humes said. “The
reality is, that your chances of making money in a bombed out
market are far higher than if you chase a market that has done
very well.”  Some potential Elliott investors had been holding off until
after the elections, said Stavros Siokos, a London-based
president at  Sciens Capital Management LLC , which provides
managed accounts for those who in put money in the Naftilia
Greek Opportunity Fund.  Greek Roots  While Greece leaving the euro would be a disaster for the
country and its people, an exit might benefit companies that do
a lot of business overseas, he said. These companies will
generate revenue in stronger currencies such as the euro and
 U.S. dollar , and have borrowing and labor costs in a devalued
drachma, said Siokos, who was previously a Citigroup Inc.
managing director in London and head of  investment management  at
Athens-based Piraeus Bank SA.  “That’s not a bad place to be,” he said.  Elliott, the son of a U.K.-born father who moved to Athens
to start a business exporting clothing in the 1970s and a Greek-
born mother, is adamant Greece will remain in the euro.  Exit Prevention  Europe  has incentives to prevent an exit, including risks
to institutions such as the  European Central Bank  that hold
billions of dollars of Greek sovereign debt and the likelihood
that contagion will spread to Spain and  Italy , prompting
depositors to accelerate bank withdrawals, he said.  Greek politicians will also do what’s necessary to keep the
country in the euro because property owners would face massive
wealth destruction following a return to the drachma, Elliott
said. Regardless, he intends to focus on companies that are
generating revenue and trying to expand their businesses, not
investments that emerge simply because of a weaker currency.  “If we go to the drachma again, there will be tremendous
amounts of money to be made for speculators,” he said.
“Whether we are going to take advantage of such a situation and
try to make money on the back of a population that is really
going to have a tough time is going to be a tough debate for me.
I don’t know whether I would be able to do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  