-- Monsanto, Apple, Haldopi, St. Kilda: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-06-20T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/monsanto-apple-haldopi-st-kilda-intellectual-property.html
Monsanto Co., (MON)  the world’s largest
seed company, filed a patent-infringement lawsuit against  DuPont
Co. (DD)  and its Pioneer Hi-Bred unit over a quicker way to develop
new seeds with fewer failures.  Pioneer’s laser-assisted seed selection infringes Monsanto
patents covering a method known as seed chipping, a way of
testing the genetics of a large batch of seeds while maintaining
their ability to be planted, Monsanto said.  The new complaint, filed June 18 in federal court in  St.
Louis , expands the legal battle between the two largest seed
companies. Pioneer sued Monsanto in 2011 over ways to produce
corn seed and a 2009 patent suit Monsanto filed against Pioneer
over herbicide-resistant corn and soybean seeds is scheduled for
trial next month.  “We believe this latest suit by Monsanto is without merit,
and we will vigorously defend our position in court,”  Dan
Turner , a spokesman for DuPont, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Monsanto continues to use litigation in an attempt to limit
Pioneer from being an effective competitor. This tactic has not
worked in previous cases, and it will not work in this matter.”  Seed chipping enables automated sampling of material from
seeds without harming their viability. Researchers can cull
individual seeds to choose ones that have desired traits and
reject others. The process shaves months off the development
cycle and eliminates waste, according to the complaint.  Monsanto said it first demonstrated its seed-chipper system
in August 2007 in  Illinois . Within months of the company’s
patent applications being made public, Pioneer filed its own
applications “which include crude, hastily hand-drawn figures
and purport to describe and claim subject matter disclosed in
Monsanto’s seed-chipper patent applications,” St. Louis-based
Monsanto said in the complaint.  DuPont, based in Wilmington,  Delaware , is building a
technology hub for its seed business in Beijing, employing about
50 researchers who will be using Monsanto technology, and is
using the process to develop Pioneer’s Optimum Aquamax hybrids
that are used in areas with limited water, Monsanto said.  Monsanto is seeking a court order to block further use of
its inventions, and wants cash compensation for the unauthorized
copying.  The case is Monsanto Co. v. Pioneer Hi-Bred International
Inc., 12cv1090, U.S. District Court for the District of
 Missouri , St. Louis.  Apple Appeals Court Ruling in Samsung Galaxy Fight Stands  Apple Inc. can renew its bid for a ban on U.S. sales of
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer after
an appeals court said it will let stand a May ruling on a patent
dispute between the two device makers.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit yesterday
denied a petition by Samsung that it reconsider its ruling,
which said that Apple could pursue the ban while a patent-
infringement case is pending.  Notice  of the denial was posted on
the court’s website.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose , California, on
June 4 refused to consider Apple’s request, because the case was
still before the Federal Circuit. With yesterday’s denial, the
appeals court will issue an order that formally sends the case
back to Koh.  Cupertino, California-based Apple claims Samsung copied the
look and features of its iPad and iPhone. It has another case
against Samsung in California in which it is trying to halt
sales of Samsung’s newest Galaxy smartphone while that lawsuit
is pending.  Apple and Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung have 30 patent
suits pending in 10 countries on four continents. It’s the
biggest fight in the global war for market share in smartphones
and tablet computers.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co., 12-1105,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit ( Washington ). The
lower court case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.,
11-1846, U.S. District Court for the District of California (San
Jose).  Apple Gets Patent on Way of Improving Mobile Device Navigation  Apple Inc., maker of the iPod and iPhone, received a patent
on a method of improving mobile device navigation, even when
there is interference with GPS signals.  Patent 8,204,684, which is one of 4,412 U.S. patents issued
June 19, covers what Cupertino, California-based Apple calls
“adaptive mobile device navigation.”  Under this system, a mobile device uses the technique of
dead reckoning, which calculates a present position based on a
previously determined position. Updated locations can be
obtained through “turn comparison” using motion sensing and
user feedback, according to the patent.  The motion sensors can be one or a combination of an
accelerometer, a compass, and/or a gyroscope.  Apple says feedback can be obtained from the user through
the use of photographs with “geographic tag information
corresponding to locations near an estimated location of the
device.”  Apple applied for the patent in January 2008 with the
assistance of Boston’s Fish & Richardson PC.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Haldopi to Use Kidexpo to Build Kids’ Copyright Compliance  Haldopi , the French government agency that administers
copyrights, has said it will develop a program aimed at
developing copyright awareness and compliance it plans to direct
to 150,000 French children, the TorrentFreak anti-copyright news
website  reported .  The program will be presented at the  Kidexpo  children’s
trade show exhibition in Paris in October, and Haldopi has
invited rights-holders to participate, according to
TorrentFreak.  The copyright owners are invited to “build common tools
tailored to that audience and to promote legal offers,”
TorrentFreak Reported.  Delhi Court to Issue Order on ‘Fashion’ Film Copyright Case  A court in Delhi,  India , will issue an order June 27 in a
copyright infringement case between an author and  Madhur
Bhandarkar , a Bollywood filmmaker, the Daily News Analysis
 reported .  Seema Seth, a former actress who wrote “El-Dorado,” has
claimed Bhandarkar’s “ Fashion ” film is based on her book
without authorization, according to Daily News Analysis.  Seth is arguing her case without counsel despite the
court’s suggestion she receive help from the Delhi Legal
Services Authority, the news service reported.  The writer said that those doing “careful reading” of her
book would conclude the plot has been derived from her book.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Battle Over St. Kilda Marks Pits Council Against National Trust  Scotland’s National Trust , a conservation charity that owns
some of that country’s most remote islands, is at odds with a
government council for the Outer Hebrides islands over “St.
Kilda” trademarks,  Scotland ’s Deadline News  reported .  The  Western Isles Council  registered the marks in the
European Union, and plans to license them for a range of
products related to the deserted St. Kilda islands, designated a
World Heritage site by the  United Nations ’ UNESCO agency,
according to Deadline News.  The National Trust for Scotland has appealed the trademark
award to the  European Court  of First Instance, saying its
ownership of the islands entitles it to own the trademarks, too,
Deadline News reported.  A spokesman for the Western Isles Council said its
ownership of the marks presents an opportunity to benefit the
Outer Hebrides, according to Deadline News.  Official Trademarks for Amangwe Royal Family to Be Revealed  Official trademarks belonging to the royal family of the
Amangwe clan will be made public in September,  Zimbabwe ’s
Newsday  reported .  During the Amangwe’s King Ntshosho II’s visit to Zimbabwe
this month, organizers of the tour said there is a proliferation
of fake miniature trademarks belonging to the clan, according to
Newsday.  The Amangwe people live in Zimbabwe, Swaziland and South
Africa, and the new trademarks will cover members of the royal
family from all three countries, Newsday reported.  Members of the Amangwe can be identified by their use of
“Ndiweni,” “Mbambo” and “Zwane’ as surnames, according to
Newsday.  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Survey Finds Indian Industrial Espionage Frequent, Acknowledged  More than 35 percent of companies operating in India engage
in industrial espionage, according to a survey conducted by the
 Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India .  The survey was conducted between January and May and looked
at diverse sectors of the Indian economy including biotech,
consumer package goods, health-care,  information technology ,
automotive, banking, financial services, insurance,
infrastructure and manufacturing. More than 200 private
investigative agencies were also consulted.  Many company representatives acknowledged the prevalence of
industrial espionage and the use of private investigators to
learn their competitors’ trade secrets, the chamber said in a
 statement .  They also acknowledged using detective and surveillance
agencies to spy on their employees’ lifestyles, keep track of
their whereabouts, and also survey ex-employees. Companies also
monitor social media to keep track of competitors’ developments,
and also said they will plant spies in competitor companies,
typically in low-level jobs such as receptionists or operators
of photo-copying machines, the survey found.  Additionally, about 25 percent of the survey’s respondents
said they have hired computer experts to install software to
hack competitors’ networks and track e-mails.  The survey found that demand for gadgets used for spying
has risen 30 percent. Tools include audio-video surveillance
devices, and GPS tracking systems.  Erie County Releases Law Fee Rates Despite Trade Secrets Claim  New York ’s Erie County has backed down from its insistence
that the fees it’s paying Boston’s Nixon Peabody LLP to
negotiate a lease with the  Buffalo Bills  football team for a
county-owned stadium is a trade secret, the Buffalo News
reported.  The rate for firm partners doing the negotiating is $250
per hour, lower than rates offered by seven other firms that had
been seeking the business, according to the Buffalo News.  Although the firm had labeled the billing rates a trade
secret, the executive director of New York’s Committee on Open
Government labeled that request ‘‘unjustifiable,” the newspaper
reported.  Erie County Attorney Michael Siragusa told the newspaper
that three Nixon Peabody lawyers will be actively involved in
the negotiations with six others available on an as-needed
basis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 