-- Hontex to Compensate Investors After Settlement
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-06-20T10:36:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/hontex-to-compensate-investors-after-settlement.html
Hontex International Holdings Co. (946) ,
suspended from trading after the Hong Kong securities regulator
accused it of misleading investors, agreed to pay shareholders
HK$1.03 billion ($133 million) to end a lawsuit.  Hontex “accepts and acknowledges” that statements in its
prospectus were false and misleading, Simon Westbrook, a lawyer
for the Securities and Futures Commission, said on the 13th day
of a High Court trial in which the regulator accused the fabric
maker of inflating sales, profit and cash figures in its
December 2009 listing prospectus.  It’s the first time the Hong Kong regulator has negotiated
a share repurchase by a listed company to compensate initial
public offering investors. The SFC has also proposed extending
civil and criminal liability for prospectus misstatements to
bankers this year after accounting scandals involving Chinese
companies listed outside of  China  eroded investor confidence.  Hontex admitted to “being reckless” and said it isn’t
able to verify what its true financial position was in the three
years before the listing, said Westbrook, reading from a list of
agreed facts signed by the Fujian province-based company and the
regulator. High Court Judge Jonathan Harris made the order to
proceed with a repurchase offer plan.  The agreement shouldn’t be taken as admissions of criminal
liability by Hontex or its directors, according to an SFC
statement today. Spokesman Jonathan Li said the regulator hadn’t
made any deals to preclude any criminal prosecutions.  SFC Chief Executive Officer Ashley Alder called today’s
compensation order “an important milestone.”  Extraordinary Meeting  An extraordinary general meeting must be held within two
months, said Hontex lawyer Alexander Li, where shareholders will
vote on an offer from the company to buy back the stock at the
March 30, 2010 closing price of HK$2.06 a share. Shareholders
can decide whether or not they want to sell their holdings, Li
said.  The repurchase plan will be partly funded from the HK$832
million of company funds that had been frozen, Westbrook said.  “The company is still a going concern, their factories in
China are still operating,” Li said. Hontex plans to work with
regulators to reinstate trading, the lawyer added.  Chinese companies face increased investor scrutiny after
short seller Muddy Waters LLC last year alleged tree grower
Sino-Forest Corp. overstated its timber holdings. Sino-Forest,
which has been delisted from  Canada ’s stock exchange, has denied
the allegations. China Forestry Holdings Co., partly owned by
private equity firm  Carlyle Group , said in April that an
independent probe verified less than 1 percent of sales the Hong
Kong-listed company previously reported.  Hontex’s share sale arranger Mega Capital ( Asia ) Co. was
fined a record HK$42 million in April and stripped of its
corporate finance license.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in  Hong Kong  at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joe Schneider at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net  