-- Most Indian Stocks Rise on Fed Speculation
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-06-20T10:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/most-indian-stocks-rise-on-fed-speculation.html
Indian stocks advanced for a second
day as speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will take fresh
stimulus measures countered signals from the nation’s central
bank that it may sacrifice growth to control inflation.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the owner of Jaguar Land Rover, rallied
to a three-week high.  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , the largest home
products maker, climbed to a record. The BSE India  Sensitive
Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, rose 0.4 percent to 16,920.36, according to
preliminary closing prices at 3:30 p.m. in  Mumbai .  Signs of faltering growth mean the Fed will announce new
steps to boost the economy, according to 12 of the 21 primary
dealers who trade with the central bank, which is scheduled to
release its statement on  interest rates  and the economy today.
Indian inflation exceeds acceptable levels and restraining it
may require sacrificing economic growth, central bank Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao said yesterday.  “Monetary authorities globally are running out of
ammunition and all we’ve become are liquidity junkies,” said
Andrew Holland, chief executive officer of investment advisory
at Ambit Capital Pvt. in Mumbai. “We need the next bit, and
we’re waiting for one tonight from the Fed.”  Inflation growth of 7.5 percent is “above our tolerance
level” and consumer-price inflation is “disturbing” at more
than 10 percent, Subbarao said in a speech in Mumbai yesterday
after markets closed.  The  Reserve Bank  of India unexpectedly left interest rates
unchanged on June 18, citing elevated price pressures. Curbing
the nation’s fiscal deficit and the success of the monsoon are
among the keys to controlling prices, Subbarao said.  Offshore  investors  sold a net  5.93 billion rupees  ($107
million) of shares on June 18, ending a eight-day, buying spree
and reducing their investments in equities this year to 421.1
billion rupees, data from the regulator show. They cut holdings
by $273 million in May, a second month of net sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  