-- OTC Is Not a Pantomime Villain for U.K. Minister Hoban
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-06-20T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/otc-is-not-a-pantomime-villain-for-u-k-minister-hoban.html
Over-the-counter derivatives, traded
off exchange, perform important functions for the economy and
for the people who trade them, U.K. Treasury Minister  Mark Hoban 
will say in a speech in Istanbul today.  Regulators around the world have sought tougher rules for
OTC derivatives since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. and the government rescue of  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) , two of the largest traders in credit-default swaps. The
European Union plans to set out which derivatives must be
cleared through exchanges in its European Market Infrastructure
Regulation initiative.  “OTC is not a dirty word,” Hoban said in prepared remarks
for an audience of exchange executives and lawmakers gathered in
Istanbul for the Federation of European Securities Exchanges’
annual conference. “Exchanges represent the beating heart of
the European market structure. But what sometimes commands less
attention in regulatory debates is the complementary role played
by bilateral dealer markets in serving modern end users’ needs.
This is particularly the case in bond and derivative markets.”  Regulators want clearinghouses to process more OTC
derivatives to reduce systemic risk. Exchanges including
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s Eurex Clearing operate as central
counterparties for every buy and sell order executed by their
members. These traders have to post collateral, reducing the
damage to other market participants if they default.  “It is in these markets where intermediaries can play a
particularly useful role,” Hoban will say in his speech.
“Stepping in to bridge the gap between buyers and sellers;
helping users to hedge their risks and meet their investment
objectives. So to portray OTC as the pantomime villain --
without acknowledging the function it can perform in the real
economy -- is a temptation that must be resisted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  