-- Tottenham Set to Offer Villas-Boas Job: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-06-20T07:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/tottenham-set-to-offer-villas-boas-job-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Tottenham Offer  Tottenham Hotspur is set to offer Andre Villas-Boas the
manager’s job following direct negotiations with the Portuguese
coach, the  Guardian reported .  Villas-Boas and his representative have sought assurances
about the future of players including midfielder Luka Modric,
and Harry Redknapp’s eventual replacement will be given transfer
funds to reshape the squad in his image, the Guardian said.  Other Options  Tottenham Chairman  Daniel Levy  wants to speak to France
manager Laurent Blanc before deciding on an appointment, the
 Daily Mail reported .  Levy is still mulling over his options, which include
Wigan’s  Roberto Martinez  and former Schalke manager Ralf Rangnick, the newspaper added.  Reina Wanted  AC Milan is considering a move for Liverpool goalkeeper
Pepe Reina as it tries to rebuild, the  Mail reported .  Christian Abbiati, Milan’s first-choice goalie, turns 35 in
the offseason and Milan coach Massimiliano Allegri wasn’t
convinced by his performances last season, the Mail added.  Double for De Jong  FC Twente manager Steve McClaren told  Newcastle United  to
double its offer for striker Luuk de Jong after an 8 million-
pound ($12.5 million) bid was rejected, the  Sun reported .  Negotiations are continuing and Newcastle may seal a deal
with a fee of about 9.5 million pounds, the  Mail said .  Barcelona Targets  Barcelona will turn its attentions to Arsenal’s  Thomas Vermaelen , Chelsea’s David Luiz and Manchester City captain
 Vincent Kompany  if it fails to acquire Athletic Bilbao defender
Javi Martinez, the  Daily Mirror reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  