-- Toulouse Gunman Who Took Hostages at Bank Placed Under Arrest
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-06-20T15:48:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/toulouse-gunman-takes-four-hostages-and-calls-for-raid-presence.html
A gunman who took four people
hostage at a bank in Toulouse in southwest  France  was arrested
by the police. The hostages were released.  The gunman was injured in the effort to capture him and has
been taken to a local hospital, said Etienne LaBrunie, an
official at the Toulouse mayor’s office.  The man had taken hostages at a branch of Credit Industriel
et Commercial, including its manager.  Agence France-Presse  said
earlier that the gunman claimed to be a member of al-Qaeda, and
was known to local police.  “It’s all over and it’s all fine,” said Bruno
Brouchiquan, a Paris-based spokesman for the bank. The hostages,
all employees at the bank, were freed and none was injured, he
said.  Toulouse was the site of shootings at a Jewish school that
left four people, including three children, dead in March. The
killer, Mohammed Merah, a 23-year-old Frenchman of Algerian
descent, claimed ties to al-Qaeda. He was slain when police laid
siege to his house.  The gunman today had appeared confused and asked for the
French police’s RAID special intervention force as well as media
coverage, LaBrunie said. Three shots were fired during the
efforts to capture him.  The gunman, who hasn’t been named, spent time in a Toulouse
hospital that specializes in mental-health problems, AFP
reported.  The CIC branch is located in a commercial neighborhood not
far from the center of the city and less than half a mile from
the apartment where Merah was killed, according to Frederic
Rossignol-Tamisier, a spokesman for the national judicial police
in charge of the Toulouse region. The hostages were seized at
11:08 a.m. local time, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Rhinds at 
 srhinds@bloomberg.net  