-- House Republicans Won’t Fight FCC Political Ad Disclosure Rule
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-06-20T22:20:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/house-republicans-won-t-fight-fcc-political-ad-disclosure-rule.html
U.S  House Republicans  dropped plans
to try to stand in the way of a  government regulation  requiring
television stations to publish online the details of political-
advertising purchases.  The House Appropriations Committee today agreed to delete
provisions targeting that rule from a spending bill that would
provide $323 million in funding for the Federal Communications
Commission in the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1.  The effort to block the regulation had come under fire from
watchdog groups as well as some Democrats who said Republicans
wanted to make it harder for the public to learn who’s buying
campaign ads.  Committee Chairman Hal Rogers said it was a pointless
fight.  “The bill likely will not be passed before the election
anyway so it is sort of a moot requirement,” the Kentucky
Republican said.  The panel instead agreed to ask the Government
Accountability Office to study the rule’s impact on television
stations.  The FCC rule, issued in April, is designed to make the
records of political ads now kept on paper at television station
offices more readily accessible to the public.  “Democrats have fought to ensure our campaigns are fairer,
our politics is more open, and our elections are conducted on a
level playing field,” said House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi ,
a California Democrat. “For a brief moment, Republicans saw the
light, and as a result, America’s voters will benefit from
increased accountability.”  Television broadcasters must disclose details on a public
website of political advertising purchases, including rates
paid, under rules approved by the FCC on April 27. The
requirement will apply initially to 200 stations that are
affiliates of the four largest U.S. networks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  