-- House Passes Compromise FDA Reauthorization Measure
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-06-20T19:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/house-passes-compromise-fda-reauthorization-measure.html
The House passed a measure that
would reauthorize drug and medical-device user-fee programs for
five years and establish new user fees for the  Food and Drug
Administration ’s review of generic drugs and biosimilar
products.  “This bill is good for the FDA, it’s good for industry,
and it’s good for patients alike,” said  Frank Pallone , a
Democrat whose district includes the  New Brunswick , New Jersey
headquarters of  Johnson & Johnson. (JNJ)   The legislation, passed by voice vote, also would affect
companies like Petach Tikva, Israel-based  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA)   The bill reflects a compromise between earlier Senate and
House versions of the reauthorization measure for the  FDA . It
now returns to the Senate for a final vote.  “This is a bicameral, bipartisan piece of legislation,”
Phil Gingrey, a Georgia Republican, said on the House floor.  The bill’s supporters were trying to avoid controversial
provisions so that President  Barack Obama  could sign it before
Sept. 30, when user fees are scheduled to expire, and preferably
before the  Supreme Court  issues its ruling this month on the
 2010 health-care overhaul .  It would extend and expand industry user fees for FDA
programs and would strip out a proposal to require drug
companies to put traceable identification numbers on all
packaging.  Fee Increase  The legislation would raise -- by more than $2 billion from
the previous five-year period -- the fees industries pay the FDA
for safety and efficacy reviews. Drugmakers in September and
device companies in February agreed to the increases in exchange
for more meetings with the FDA throughout the review process
that may produce faster product approvals.  Brand-name drugmakers have paid the fees since 1992, and
device makers began their system in 2002. The bill adds user
fees for generic versions of complex biologic drugs, a process
not allowed until passage of the 2010 health-care law.  Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based  Mylan Inc. (MYL) , the largest U.S.
maker of generic medicines, led its industry effort to
participate in the fee program to quicken review times and deal
with a backlog of applications, as well as to ensure that the
FDA has the resources to inspect drug-manufacturing plants
located overseas.  The compromise bill also stripped out a Senate provision
that would have placed further restrictions on the sale of
painkillers such as hydrocodone.  Different Versions  Among the differences between the earlier House and Senate
bills was the approach to medical-device regulation. One
provision in the compromise agreement mirrors the Senate version
by allowing the director of the FDA’s device division to
reclassify a device based on administrative order, instead of a
more cumbersome rule-making process.  The final language also instructs the FDA to publish a
proposed regulation for unique device identifiers by the end of
calendar year 2012, finalize those regulations by the fall of
2013 and implement a program within two years of the final
rule’s publication date.  The compromise agreement would require the FDA, the  Federal
Communications Commission , the National Coordinator for Health
Information Technology and other third-party stakeholders to
collaborate on a report in the next 18 months recommending a
regulatory framework for mobile applications and other types of
health-information software. Negotiators eliminated Senate
language that would have prohibited the FDA from finalizing
guidance on mobile medical applications until the report had
been published. The FDA issued draft guidance in July.  Antibiotic Incentives  The final bill contains a Senate provision directing the
FDA to develop and maintain a list of qualifying pathogens for
which new antibiotics could receive an extra five years of
market exclusivity. The House bill would have allowed a larger
number of antibiotics to qualify.  The removal of a proposal requiring drug companies to put
traceable identification numbers on all packaging, also known as
track-and-trace, may be considered later in the year as separate
legislation. Still, its absence in today’s compromise bill makes
its prospects for approval doubtful in the near term.  The bill would reduce federal spending by $311 million
through 2022, according to a June 19  estimate  by the
 Congressional Budget Office .  Obama’s fiscal year 2013 budget request called for a 1
percent cut in appropriations for the agency’s drug and device
divisions. The  House Appropriations Committee’s  spending bill
for fiscal 2013 calls for a $16 million reduction, or 0.7
percent, in spending for the agency compared with fiscal 2012.  The Supreme Court decision on the 2010 health-care law,
expected before the end of the month, could invalidate some or
all of Obama’s overhaul and prompt lawmakers to make changes to
the FDA bill, which is one of the few pieces of “must-pass”
legislation with bipartisan support in this election year.  The bill is  S. 3187 .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  