-- Outdated Weather Radar Tied to Fatal Small-Plane Crashes
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-06-20T21:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/outdated-weather-radar-tied-to-fatal-small-plane-crashes.html
Weather radar images sent to small-
plane cockpits with new technology can be as much as 20 minutes
out of date and have been linked to two fatal crashes, a U.S.
safety agency warned.  The  National Transportation Safety Board   told  pilots
yesterday that the so-called Nexrad radar display can mislead
pilots into thinking they are viewing current weather
information.  “Remember that the in-cockpit Nexrad display depicts where
the weather WAS, not where it IS,” the safety board wrote.  The government is  broadcasting  weather and other data to
properly equipped small planes as part of the  Federal Aviation
Administration ’s broader overhaul of the U.S. air-traffic system
known as NextGen.  Nexrad is a long-range weather radar system jointly owned
and operated by the FAA, the U.S. National Weather Service and
the Defense Department, according to a fact sheet posted on the
FAA’s website.  While airliners carry weather radars on board that allow
pilots to see storms, small planes typically have not had access
to that technology.  The gap in weather information has arisen in two accidents
that killed a total of eight people, the NTSB said.  On March 25, 2010, a pilot and two flight nurses were
killed near Brownsville,  Tennessee , when an air ambulance
helicopter encountered severe weather.  On Dec. 19, 2011, a single-engine Piper Cherokee broke up
in flight and  crashed  near Bryan,  Texas , killing all five
aboard.  Miles Away  In both cases, storms depicted on radar in the planes’
cockpits were between 5 and 8 minutes old and miles away from
their actual location, the alert said.  Compounding the issue is that the Nexrad displays the age
of the radar image. That time-stamp indicates when the image was
created, not how old the data is, according to the NTSB.  “Weather conditions depicted on the mosaic image will
always be older than the age indicated on the display,” the
alert said.  The FAA has been alerting pilots to the time delay for
several years, the agency said in an e-mailed statement. The
information is contained in an online training guide, a manual
for flying in different weather conditions and in the FAA Safety
Briefing magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  