-- Love the Leaker, Hate the Leak
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-06-20T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/love-the-leaker-hate-the-leak.html
Cui bono? That’s what Wall Street
Journal columnist Peggy Noonan  asks . “Who benefits” from recent
leaks of intelligence information to the news media?  The answer is obvious, Noonan writes, and therefore so is
the source of the leaks: It’s the folks in the Obama
administration, who want to make their man look steely and
steady at the helm of  U.S. foreign policy . Noonan charges “high
administration sources” with “diarrhetic volubility” that is “a
real breakthrough in the history of indiscretion.” Republicans
in Congress agree, possibly after looking up the word
“diarrhetic,” and are demanding a special prosecutor to
investigate the source of the leaks.  The call for a special prosecutor is one of the great set
pieces of the Washington melodrama. Whichever party doesn’t
control the White House invariably finds a reason to call for
one to investigate some abuse or other, and the party of the
president invariably opposes this, calling it a waste of time
and money and (if someone is feeling fancy) “the criminalization
of political differences.” The president usually loses.  When the White House changes hands, the parties change
their position on special prosecutors. Republicans used to claim
that the office was unconstitutional. Now they want one.  Children Playing  Of the supposed national security secrets  revealed in
recent weeks , it’s difficult to see how much practical harm
could come from the revelation that President  Barack Obama 
personally picks out the targets for assassination-by-drone, or
that the Israelis assisted in a successful U.S. effort to
cripple  Iran’s nuclear program  with a computer virus. (After
all,  Israel  is openly contemplating dropping a bomb or two on
 Iran .) The fact that drone operators -- safe in their offices,
thousands of miles away -- “track victims for days” and “watch
them play with their children” before killing them is certainly
vivid, and possibly detrimental to the war effort. But it’s not
telling the enemy anything it doesn’t already know.  There’s no guarantee, of course, that some leaked nugget or
other won’t be surprising and useful to someone who wishes the
U.S. ill. Our response to that possibility, though, is odd.  Suppose the subject were not leaked information but, say, a
painting stolen from the National Gallery of Art. And suppose
the painting surfaced a few days later in a  New York  gallery.
Would you say, “Let’s lease some  office space , hire half a dozen
top litigators, convene a grand jury, bring in the FBI and spend
two or three years getting to the bottom of this outrage”? Or
would you say: “Hey, here’s a thought. Why don’t we go and ask
the gallery owner where he got the painting?” If he won’t say,
subpoena him, and if he won’t obey the subpoena, put him in jail
until he does.  The reason you don’t ask the second question, of course, is
the First Amendment. But it’s one thing to say that you have the
First Amendment right to express an idea or expose a fact. It’s
another thing to praise you for expressing or exposing it, while
condemning the person who gave you the information.  In this case “you” are David Sanger, chief Washington
correspondent for the New York Times, in his new  book , “Confront
and Conceal: Obama’s Secret Wars and Surprising Use of American
Power.” Amid denunciations of everyone Sanger might have talked
with in researching the book, Noonan is careful to praise Sanger
himself as “a veteran reporter and a professional.”  John Kerry ,
chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, has
criticized the leaks. But in the same breath he praises Sanger
as “ a damn good reporter .” He repeatedly expresses his enormous
“respect for David Sanger.” He even compared Sanger to the
greatest reporter in the universe,  Bob Woodward  -- while
condemning the fruits of Sanger’s reporting as a threat to our
national security.  Adults Thinking  Sanger is, indeed, a great reporter and a very nice fellow.
But it seems to me that he, his editors, Senator Kerry, Noonan
and everyone else who has weighed in about the leak controversy
-- possibly even including myself -- haven’t quite thought this
one through.  Either Sanger and his editors were right to publish these
revelations, because they provide information to the people
about secret goings-on by their government, or they were wrong,
because they supply useful knowledge to our enemies. You can
weigh these issues as part of deciding, but you can’t avoid a
decision by saying that Sanger is doing a great job, even though
you believe that the result puts our country in peril. There is
no “ invisible hand ” to guarantee that if the government tries to
keep its secrets and reporters try to pry them away, the result
will be the ideal balance between the people’s right to know and
the government’s need for them not to know.  Sanger and other reporters have expressed irritation that
some people think leaks just pour on them from the heavens. They
work hard, and they usually induce a source to leak through
dogged persistence. All this is true. But return to our painting
analogy: If the gallery owner not only received the painting but
actually organized the plot to steal it, and pressured his
insider colleagues to participate, would that be considered a
mitigating factor, or one that makes the gallery owner’s
situation even more precarious?  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Operation Fast and Furious 
and on why the  Fed needs to be more aggressive ;  Caroline Baum  on
the mistake  underlying the euro;   Ezra Klein  on the news media’s
dreadful  horse-race coverage;  Carl Pope on  renewable energy in
emerging markets .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 