-- P&G Cuts Forecasts as Sales Growth Slows in Europe, U.S.
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-06-20T20:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/p-g-cuts-quarterly-forecasts-as-developed-markets-sales-falter.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s
largest consumer-goods company, declined after cutting its
earnings and revenue forecasts for the second time in less than
two months, hurt by slowing sales growth in  Europe  and the U.S.  P&G  slid  2.9 percent to $60.39 at the close in  New York .
The shares have dropped 9.5 percent this year.  Fiscal fourth-quarter organic sales, which exclude
acquisitions, divestitures and foreign-currency fluctuations,
will rise as much as 3 percent, compared with a prior projection
of a maximum of 5 percent, Chief Executive Officer Bob McDonald
said today. Earnings per share excluding some items will be as
much as 79 cents, down from a previous forecast of a maximum of
85 cents. That trails the 84-cent average of  22 estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  The reduced forecasts illustrate the difficulties faced by
consumer-products makers as rising unemployment in Europe and
 North America  restricts spending.  Danone (BN) , the world’s biggest
yogurt maker, cut its profitability forecast yesterday. Europe
is “difficult for everybody,” Jean-Marc Huet, chief financial
officer of Unilever, said at the Paris conference yesterday.
Unilever and Danone shares fell for a second day today.  The economic situation in Europe “is still very fragile,”
Richard Caines, an analyst at Mintel International in  London ,
said in a phone interview. “The fact that they’re talking about
it means it will affect every company in those markets.”  P&G, the maker of Tide washing detergent, cut its current-
year  profit forecast  on April 27, citing regulations in
 Venezuela  and slowing shipments in some developed markets.  2013 Forecasts  Today’s reduction is “primarily driven by slower than
anticipated top-line growth from slower than expected market
growth rates and market share softness in developed regions, and
negative impacts from foreign-exchange rate changes,”
Cincinnati-based P&G said in a statement.  The maker of Gillette razors also forecast growth of 2
percent to 4 percent in fiscal 2013 organic sales. Core earnings
per share, which excludes discontinued operations and
incremental restructuring charges, will rise as much as a mid-
single digit percentage next year, P&G said in the statement.  In February, McDonald announced a program of $10 billion in
cost cuts and savings through 2016. “Good progress” has been
made in the first three months of the process, he said today.  “Where we’ve struggled is with operating profit,”
McDonald said. “We are making some progress in the back half of
this fiscal year, but it’s less progress than we’d expected and
that we want. It’s something we must fix.”  Shares Drop  In Europe today,  Unilever (UNA)  shares  fell  as much as 2.1
percent, while Danone  declined  as much as 1.8 percent.  Nestle
SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food company, dropped as much as 1.4
percent.  P&G is working to boost sales in developed countries
including the U.S. and said today it needs to balance developing
and emerging-market growth.  “We need to keep growing in our home market,” McDonald
said, even as developing economies represent a larger portion of
sales. Developing markets will represent 37 percent of revenue
this year compared with 20 percent in 2000.  The company will focus on promoting and driving growth in
its top 40 best-performing businesses -- mostly based in  China ,
 Brazil  and  Russia  -- top 20 innovations and top 10 developing
markets, according to McDonald.  P&G will focus on more competitive pricing after its
products became relatively more expensive in some markets as it
increased prices sooner than competitors, McDonald said.  Investor Impatience  “P&G has put their prices up to protect their margins, but
it’s still a squeeze on profits when you have commodity costs
going up and shoppers being more careful about how much they
spend,” Mintel’s Caines said.  Since taking over in July 2009, McDonald has focused on
adding new categories and countries toward a goal of reaching 5
billion customers by 2015. The maker of Pampers diapers has seen
patience wane among investors and analysts as the company’s
share price has underperformed peers such as  Kimberly-Clark
Corp. (KMB)  and  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)  in the past three years.  The CEO said today that the company will concentrate on
developing bigger products with more potential than smaller
ones. It has cut the volume of innovations by 33 percent even as
it rolls out new products including the  Febreze Car vent clip 
air freshener and Crest Glamorous White toothpaste.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  