-- Pacific Trade Talks Extend Invites to Canada, Mexico
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-06-20T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/pacific-trade-talks-extend-invites-to-canada-mexico.html
A proposed Pacific trade region may
capture an additional $3 trillion in economic output after
 Canada  and Mexico were invited to take part in talks with nine
other nations.  The Trans-Pacific Partnership deal “will enhance trade in
the Asia-Pacific region and will provide greater economic
opportunity for Canadians and Canadian businesses,” Prime
Minister Stephen Harper said yesterday in a statement issued at
the Group of 20 summit in the Mexican resort city of Los Cabos.
Canada will enter the talks “at the earliest opportunity,” the
government said in the statement.  A final deal that includes Canada and Mexico would create
the U.S.’s largest trade accord, linking its North American Free
Trade Agreement partners with eight Pacific-region nations. The
negotiations would cover trading among economies with an
estimated $20.5 trillion in output, up from $17.6 trillion among
the nine partners, according to the Canadian statement.  Canada, the primary U.S. trading partner, hasn’t made any
concessions as part of the agreement, though it will have to
accept progress the negotiating nations have already made,
Harper told reporters yesterday in Los Cabos.  “We’re obviously not going to try and undo what’s been
done but these negotiations in our judgment are at fairly
preliminary phases right now,” he said.  ‘Unique Opportunity’  Inviting Canada to join “presents a unique opportunity for
the  United States  to build upon this already dynamic trading
relationship,” U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  said in a
statement. The Pacific agreement is a top trade priority for
U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s administration.  Adding the two nations to the Pacific deal would create the
largest export market for the U.S., according to the agency. The
current parties in the talks represent the fourth-largest goods
and services market for U.S. exporters, according to an agency
fact sheet.  For now, the U.S. along with participating nations
Australia, Brunei,  Chile , Malaysia,  New Zealand ,  Peru , Singapore
and Vietnam haven’t taken action on Japan’s interest in joining.
 Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler LLC oppose
Japan’s participation, saying the nation’s auto market needs to
be more open to international competition.  The Pacific agreement will embrace traditional issues
including agriculture and intellectual property, as well
investment and protections for businesses that compete against
state-owned enterprises, according to the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office.  ‘Sticking Points’  Those issues also may be “sticking points” as the talks
progress, Jeffrey Schott, a senior fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics, said at a conference in
Washington yesterday. Because topics such as protecting
copyrights and patents and challenging state-owned companies
have evolved since Nafta took effect in 1994, the Pacific accord
“will be a way of upgrading the Nafta without having to
renegotiate it in  North America ,” he said.  New entrants to the talks “must not lower the ambition of
the Trans-Pacific Partnership or delay its conclusion,”
Representative  Kevin Brady , a Texas Republican and chairman of
the House Ways & Means Committee trade panel, who spoke earlier
at the conference, said. By setting high standards, the
agreement may give its participants leverage when dealing with
countries including India and China and encourage them to abide
by similar rules, he said.  Fast Track  Brady called on Congress to grant the White House so-called
fast-track authority to negotiate agreements subject to an up-
or-down vote by lawmakers. If the Pacific accord “is to be
completed quickly, we have to be prepared to consider it in
Congress when that time comes,” he said.  Trade in merchandise among Canada,  Mexico  and the U.S.
reached $1 trillion in 2011 for the first time, Obama said at an
April 2 press conference. Total U.S. trade in goods with Canada
reached $596.2 billion, resulting in a $34.5 billion  U.S. trade
deficit  with its northern neighbor, according to the U.S. Census
Bureau. Goods trade with Mexico, the second largest market for
U.S. exporters, was $461.2 billion.  “Companies and workers in our three countries literally
make things together, with supply chains that cross our borders
and make North America more competitive on the global stage,”
 Thomas Donohue , chief executive officer of the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, a Washington-based industry group, said yesterday in a
statement.  The Obama administration must notify Congress of its intent
to include any additional countries in the talks, followed by a
90-day consultation period with Congress.  The next round of Pacific-accord negotiations is scheduled
for July 2-10 in San Diego.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  