-- Peltz Said to Have Pressed Lazard on Cutting Banker Compensation
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-06-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/peltz-said-to-have-pressed-lazard-on-cutting-banker-compensation.html
Billionaire  Nelson Peltz  criticized
 Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) ’s pay and cost structure in meetings with senior
executives before he disclosed a 5.1 percent stake in the
advisory firm this week, said people familiar with the matter.  At a series of meetings starting in March, Peltz and Ed Garden, one of his co-founders at Trian Fund Management LP, told
Lazard Chief Executive Officer  Kenneth Jacobs  the firm paid
bankers more than deal flow or productivity merited, said the
people, who asked not to be named as the talks were private.  The two advised Lazard to bring pay and productivity in
line with peers  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  and Greenhill & Co., the
people said. Peltz also expressed concern that Lazard’s managers
were putting their interests ahead of  shareholders’ , the people
said. The month after he began the meetings, Lazard revealed a
new strategic plan to rein in banker compensation more quickly.  The meetings reveal that Peltz, 69, was much more
confrontational with Lazard in private. Trian called the
advisory firm “a premier global financial services company with
significant brand and franchise value” in its statement this
week, emphasizing its support of Lazard’s management.  Lazard began drawing up its new strategy before Peltz
voiced his concerns, one of the people said. Trian owns about
6.3 million Lazard shares, making it the firm’s largest holder,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock has declined
31 percent in the past year.  “Lazard has substantial room for earnings upside, which
would argue for a much higher stock price,” said Devin Ryan, an
analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in  New York . The firm
and its peers are facing a “depressed” deal environment, which
has weighed on their profit and shares, he said.  In Agreement  Peltz and Hamilton, Bermuda-based Lazard are in agreement
for now on plans for banker compensation, cost structure and
revenue-per-banker measures, said two of the people.  Jacobs, who has worked at Lazard for more than two decades,
was named CEO after the death of  Bruce Wasserstein . A onetime
corporate lawyer, Wasserstein rose to the top of the ranks of
merger advisers during the 1980s and won a power struggle with
Michel David-Weill to take Lazard Freres & Co. public. He also
worked on some of the biggest deals in the last 30 years.  After Jacobs took over in 2009, Lazard began an
“intensive” review of the firm’s business to “better align
the interests of employees and shareholders” and keep the rate
of pay growth lower than that for revenue, according to an April
27  letter  to shareholders.  Trian’s Expectations  In revealing its holdings, Trian  released  a 39-page slide
deck laying out its views on Lazard. On page 25, Trian estimated
Lazard’s  revenue  will rise 4 percent annually from 2011 to 2014,
compared with an annual increase of about 1 percent for
compensation. That page caught the attention of senior Lazard
executives because it indicates nearly flat pay for the next
three years, said two people familiar with the matter.  That pace may not be fast enough for Lazard’s bankers, who
may seek better prospects with other firms, said the people. The
projection also signals the firm may look to job cuts to keep
compensation stable, they said.  Judi Mackey, a spokeswoman for Lazard, declined to comment.  Anne Tarbell , a Trian spokeswoman, declined to comment on
any private conversations, adding that the shares could double
from the current price if the new plan is successfully
implemented.  Stock Performance  Lazard’s stock closed at $25.77 in New York yesterday,
compared with $37.21 a year ago.  “We regularly meet with our largest shareholders, who are
not shy in expressing their views about Lazard’s progress,” the
firm said in the letter, which detailed its new strategy.  Lazard’s proposals will impose “greater cost discipline
and more efficient use of capital,” according to the 26-page
letter.  Lazard also wants to reduce the ratio of compensation to
revenue to a range of 55 percent to 59 percent from 62 percent,
the letter shows. The weighted average for rivals in Lazard’s
two main businesses, advisory work and asset management, is 56
percent, according to the firm.  Aggressive Reductions  Lazard’s Jacobs told analysts in February that the firm
would attempt to maintain a compensation ratio in the mid to
high 50 percent range. The firm was “very aggressive” in
reducing compensation in 2011, Jacobs said then, pointing to a
20 percent cut in discretionary bonuses.  The firm is ranked 12th in advising on global mergers and
acquisitions this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares with eighth place for 2011. This year, the firm has
advised on deals such as United Parcel Service Inc.’s agreement
to buy  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  for about 5.2 billion euros ($6.6
billion).  Global announced deal volume declined for the third
straight quarter in the three months ended March 31, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Some companies have held off on
deals amid concern about the European sovereign-debt crisis.  Lazard reported a 23 percent drop in first-quarter profit
from a year earlier as expenses climbed. The firm set aside
$312.7 million for compensation in the first quarter, compared
with $268.9 million last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  