-- Peugeot Board Supports CEO After Reports of Family Disapproval
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-06-20T17:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/peugeot-board-supports-ceo-after-reports-of-family-disapproval.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ’s supervisory
board said it supports Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin
and his strategy, following a report in  La Tribune  that the
Peugeot family was unhappy with his management.  “Following rumors that have appeared today in the press
the entire Supervisory Board of PSA Peugeot Citroen wishes to
express its complete support for Philippe Varin and the Managing
Board and also for the current strategy that is in place,” the
board said today in an emailed statement released after market
closing.  The Peugeot family is disappointed with Varin’s results and
some members question his decision to ally with  General Motors
Co. (GM) , La Tribune reported online today, citing unidentified
persons. Varin is on an ‘ejector seat,’ the newspaper said.  Peugeot,  Europe ’s second-biggest carmaker, announced plans
in February to sell assets, including a stake in its trucking
unit Gefco, as it struggles with rising debt and falling sales.
The company now plans to sell at least 50 percent of Gefco, a
union representative said on June 15. The carmaker set up a
strategic alliance with GM in March in which the U.S. automaker
became Peugeot’s second-largest shareholder after the founding
family.  “The Peugeot family members have seen their shares losing
more than 50 percent of their value, so of course they’re
unhappy,” said Horst Schneider, an analyst at HSBC Trinkaus &
Burkhardt AG with an “underweight” rating on the shares.  Shares of Peugeot closed 6.5 percent higher in Paris at
8.21 euros, valuing the carmaker at 2.9 billion euros ($3.69
billion). The French company hit a 23-year low last week, when
its  stock  fell to 7.34 euros on June 14.  The Paris-based automaker’s stock has slumped 68 percent in
the last 12 months. Peugeot’s five-month sales in Europe are
down 15 percent, outpacing a 7.3 percent industry-wide drop,
according to data from the  European Automobile
Manufacturers’Association . The Peugeot family owns 25.3 percent
of the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  