-- Panel Recommends Pfizer’s Prevnar for Immune-Weakened Adults
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-06-20T20:41:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/pfizer-s-prevnar-recommended-by-panel-for-immune-weakened-adults.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s vaccine Prevnar 13,
used to prevent pneumococcal disease, should be given to adults
with weakened immune systems, according to a U.S. panel that
recommends vaccination schedules to doctors.  The U.S. Advisory Committee on Vaccine Practices voted
today that people with AIDS, cancer, organ transplants, advanced
kidney disease and other immune-weakening conditions should
receive the vaccine. The recommendation includes people who’ve
already had  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s Pneumovax 23, a competitor to New
York-based Pfizer’s product.  The  Food and Drug Administration  in December approved
Prevnar 13 for use in adults at least 50 years old. The vaccine
panel, part of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in
Atlanta, recommends vaccinations to doctors and has yet to
decide whether all adults 50 years old and older should get
Prevnar 13. Such a ruling would be a major sales boost to sales
of the product,  Tony Butler , an analyst with  Barclays Capital ,
said in a note to clients in February.  Pfizer said it will continue to urge the panel to support
giving the vaccine to all adults at least 50 years old. A
company study of Prevnar in 84,000 people 65 and older should
have results by 2013, the drugmaker said in a statement.  If recommended in the older population, Pfizer’s vaccine
would go head-to-head with Merck’s product. “It is important
for clinicians to continue to focus on implementing the ACIP’s
long-standing recommendation for use of only Pneumovax 23 to
help protect all adults aged 65 and older, as well as adults 19
and older,” Mark Feinberg, chief science of  Whitehouse Station ,
New Jersey-based Merck’s vaccine division, said in a statement.  The  World Health Organization   estimates  that 1.6 million
people die each year from pneumococcal infections. Pfizer’s
vaccine generated $941 million in the first quarter, and was the
drugmaker’s third-best-selling product behind the cholesterol
pill Lipitor and pain drug Lyrica.  Pfizer fell less than 1 percent to $22.67 at the close in
New York. Merck declined less than 1 percent to $39.21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  