-- Pilot Program for Wider Stock Increments Backed at House Hearing
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-06-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/pilot-program-for-wider-stock-increments-backed-at-house-hearing.html
Exchange operator NYSE Euronext and
brokers Cowen Group Inc. and  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  told a
congressional panel they support a pilot program to increase the
minimum-price increment for smaller, less-active stocks as a way
of spurring trading.  Wider price increments would drive market makers to supply
bids and offers for more shares, making it easier for mutual
funds and other asset managers to buy or sell without moving
prices, executives said. That, in turn, would boost investment
in smaller firms, they said. The current minimum 1-cent
increment is a one-size-fits-all approach that doesn’t make
sense for all companies, according to Kevin Cronin, global head
of equity trading at Atlanta-based Invesco Ltd.  The  Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act , signed into law by
President  Barack Obama  April 5 to boost  job creation , requires
the Securities and Exchange Commission to study how
decimalization, or the shift in 2001 to 1-cent increments, may
have affected initial public offerings and smaller companies.
Yesterday’s testimony came in a hearing on market structure
before the House Committee on Financial Services in  Washington .  “We’d be very in favor of experimenting with allowing
companies to select their own tick size,”  Duncan Niederauer ,
chief executive officer of NYSE Euronext, told the panel.
“Ultimately, you could argue that that could be their decision.
I don’t think the implementation process would be long.”  Tick Sizes  Trading increments, known as ticks, of 1 cent are good for
the 100 or 200 most actively traded companies, Cronin said at
the hearing. For others, it “doesn’t seem to make a whole lot
of sense,” and 5 cents or more may be better, he said.  “The more things we can do to enhance the liquidity and
participation, the better,” Cronin said. “At the end of the
day, it is our investors’ money that you’re looking to really
get more engaged in this and one of the prices for admission for
that is just more transparency, better liquidity.”  The business model in which dealers brought companies
public, made markets in their stock and wrote research for
investors began to wane a decade ago after regulators limited
links between research and investment banking and decimalization
changed the way companies trade. Profits from market making
shrank as the spread between bids and offers narrowed.  That squeeze helped give rise to the proprietary and high-
frequency trading firms who now account for more than half of
American equity trading. Today, with markets fragmented across
more than a dozen exchanges and electronic communications
networks and more than 40 dark pools, venues rely on
computerized firms to supply the buy and sell orders that make
it possible for investors to quickly trade shares.  Price Improvement  Boosting liquidity without significantly moving prices and
providing more research would prevent companies from being
“orphaned” once they’re publicly traded, Niederauer said.  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  is in discussions with as many as 100 companies about
accessing the  capital market  that it wouldn’t have been talking
to if the JOBS Act hadn’t been adopted, he said.  The U.S. had 4,988 exchange-listed companies last year,
down 28 percent from 6,943 in 1991, Jeffrey M. Solomon, CEO of
Cowen & Co. in New York, said in written testimony that cited
figures from the World Federation of Exchanges. Initial
offerings that raised less than $60 million accounted for 74
percent of total U.S. IPO activity in the 20 years ending in
2000, while they were 24 percent over the last five years, he
said in the testimony.  “If you can actually set your tick increment much wider,
then the marketplace will react,” Solomon said today. “If you
can set it wide enough and there’s profit incentive for
middlemen to come in and make markets, then those middlemen will
have an economic incentive to write research.”  ‘Too Prescriptive’  Exchanges shouldn’t be “too prescriptive” about who
should determine the tick size, Cronin said. Exchanges and
investors may be in a better position to make decisions on the
topic than management at companies going public, he said.  David Weild, senior adviser at Grant Thornton LLP, who
oversees the company’s capital markets group and is a former
vice chairman of the  Nasdaq  Stock Market with responsibility for
corporate listings, said the tick size should vary from 1 cent
to 25 cents based on the company. Firms with a market
capitalization of less than $100 million should trade with a 25-
cent spread, he said.  “If you want to commit capital, buy a block of stock and
get, as we used to say on the trading desk, long and loud to go
find a buyer, you need a way to get compensated for that risk,”
Weild said.  Berkshire Hathaway  The tick size in general should be adjusted based on the
stock in question,  Cameron Smith , president of Quantlab
Financial LLC, a Houston-based quantitative trading firm, said.  “We need to calibrate” tick sizes to factors such as a
company’s stock price, he said. “There’s no reason that
Berkshire Hathaway should have the same tick size as some $5,
very actively traded stock.”  Wider increments may not yield the benefits in companies
going public and job creation that exchange executives and other
brokers expect, according to  Dan Mathisson , head of U.S. equity
trading at Zurich-based  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CS)  He added that he
wouldn’t object to the introduction of bigger price increments.  “It would not make a significant difference in the IPO
markets or the ability to raise capital,” Mathisson said. “I
do not think it would do any harm to the markets.”  Knight CEO Thomas Joyce said he supports wider tick sizes.
The  Jersey City , New Jersey-based broker, which makes markets in
19,000 publicly traded companies in the U.S., including about
6,700 on exchanges, has expanded as competing providers of
liquidity pared back their businesses once profits came under
stress because firms earned less money for each share traded.  Market Share  “We have ended up with outsized market share because that
business of making markets for small companies has become very
tough and a lot of market participants walked away from the
opportunity that we stayed with,” Joyce said. “If spreads
widen, market makers might have an opportunity to have more of a
profitable business.”  The number of market makers on Nasdaq has declined to 121
in April from 550 in April 1997, according to  data  published by
the exchange. While the level shrank all but one year, the
number of market makers per security has increased to 16.1 from
10.2 over the same period, according to Nasdaq data. The changes
came in the wake of new trading rules for U.S. equities, a
reduction in tick size and Nasdaq’s shift in 2006 from a dealer
market to an exchange.  Wider spreads “may encourage more market makers to
participate, more market makers to sponsor the stocks of the
companies in question, more market makers to perhaps pick up
research of the stocks and companies,” Joyce said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  