-- Polish Output Growth Quickens to 4.6% in May, Tops Forecast
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2012-06-20T12:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/polish-output-growth-quickens-to-4-6-in-may-tops-forecast-1-.html
Polish industrial-output growth
unexpectedly accelerated in May, suggesting the European Union’s
biggest eastern economy is withstanding  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Production rose 4.6 percent from a year earlier, compared
with a 2.9 percent increase in April, the  Central Statistics
Office  in Warsaw said today. That exceeded the 2.5 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 22 economists. Output
rose 4.5 percent from the previous month.  Manufacturing expanded for the 31st consecutive month,
suggesting that producers are coping with an economic slowdown
in the euro region, which buys two-thirds of Poland’s exports.
The  economy  will expand 2.7 percent this year, the fastest pace
in the 27-nation bloc, according to the European Commission.  “We’re getting a bounce-back reaction from very weak April
data,” Agnieszka Decewicz, a Warsaw-based economist at Bank
Zachodni WBK in Warsaw, said by phone after the release. “The
figures don’t change the big picture of a gradual slowdown in
coming months and certainly don’t suggest the need for another
rate increase.”  Poland ’s central bank was the first in the EU to raise
borrowing costs this year when it increased its benchmark rate
by a quarter-point to 4.75 percent in May. Resilient growth and
inflation which has remained above the central bank’s 2.5
percent target since October 2010 make an interest rate increase
“very likely” next month,  Adam Glapinski , a member of the
central bank’s Monetary Policy Council, said last week.  ‘Mild’ Slowdown  “The euro region has stagnated, but decent economic
activity in Germany has played a major role in strengthening
Poland’s resistance to the euro-area crisis,” Glapinski said,
calling Poland’s economic slowdown “mild.”  The EU is battling to staunch a debt crisis that is
threatening to trigger another global slowdown.  Germany ,
Poland’s biggest trading partner accounting for a quarter of
exports, posted the steepest decline in economic sentiment since
1998 yesterday. The euro region will contract 0.3 percent this
year, according to forecasts from the commission on May 11.  Producer prices, an early indicator of inflationary trends,
rose 5 percent from a year earlier in May, matching the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 15 economists, the statistics
office reported today in a separate statement. Producer prices
rose 0.2 percent on the month.  The zloty strengthened after the data release to 4.2379 per
euro at 2:20 p.m. in Warsaw, 0.1 percent stronger on the day.
The yield on the five-year government bond due in 2017 was 4.79
percent, down 6 basis points from yesterday after yields on the
maturity fell to a six-year low at auction today.  -- Editors: Alan Crosby,  Jeffrey Donovan , David McQuaid  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  