-- Caribbean System May Spawn Floods From Florida to Caymans
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-06-21T09:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/potential-caribbean-storm-may-bring-flooding-to-florida.html
Storm forecasters are tracking a
potential tropical weather system that may spawn heavy rain and
flooding from the Bahamas and  Florida  to the Cayman Islands.  The disturbance has a 30 percent chance of organizing and
strengthening into a tropical depression or storm in the next
two days as it moves northwest into the  Gulf of Mexico , the
 National Hurricane Center  in Miami said.  Two days of heavy rain and local flooding may occur across
western Cuba, southern Florida, the central Bahamas and Yucatan
peninsula, the NHC said. The center is also monitoring Tropical
Storm Chris southeast of  Newfoundland , the third named storm of
the Atlantic  hurricane season .  Chris was 630 miles (1,010 kilometers) from Cape Race,
Newfoundland, moving east-northeast at 20 mph, the NHC said in
its 5 a.m. Atlantic time advisory. Its top winds were 60 mph.
Little change in strength is expected with the storm forecast to
become post-tropical by the end of the week.  The two other storms that received names when their winds
reached 39 mph formed in May, ahead of the official June 1 start
of the hurricane season. Three storms don’t usually develop in
the Atlantic so early,  Jeff Masters , co-founder of Weather
Underground Inc., wrote in his blog. In 1887 and 1959, three
storms formed before June 20, he said.  A nearly stationary area of low pressure about 330 miles
south of the tip of Mexico’s Baja California is producing
showers though it’s only given a 10 percent chance of becoming a
tropical cyclone over the next two days, the NHC also said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  