-- Power Finance of India Says Lending Rising on Renewables Growth
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-06-20T13:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/power-finance-of-india-says-lending-rising-on-renewables-growth.html
Power Finance Corp. (POWF) , India’s largest
state lender to electricity utilities, said a renewable-energy
boom will support growth in loans as the country seeks to double
clean-power capacity by 2017.  Loan disbursal at Power Finance increased  31 percent  in the
year through March, compared with a 25 percent gain the previous
year, Chairman Satnam Singh said in an interview in London. The
lender expects to maintain that pace as growth in renewable
energy counters a decline in coal-power projects.  India, reliant on coal for most of its electricity output,
has spurred development of its solar, wind and hydropower
industries by offering federal and state incentives. Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  has earmarked more than $300 billion to
expand the country’s electricity system, and an increasing share
of that investment will fund clean-power projects as lenders
shun new fossil-fuel plants amid rising fuel costs.  As renewables projects gain momentum, loan distribution has
sped up, Chairman Singh said last week. Loans granted by Power
Finance are counted as income-earning assets when they’re
disbursed, a process that’s quicker for solar and wind than for
thermal-power plants because they’re quicker to build, he said.  Power Finance’s renewable-energy loans, less than 2
percent of its total loan book last year, may rise to about 10
or 12 percent in five years, Singh said.  Loan Disbursal  The New Delhi-based lender approved about $189 million of
loans for renewables in fiscal 2011, according to Singh. Loans
approved and still to be distributed in fiscal 2012 total $187
million, on top of $52 million already paid out, he said. Power
Finance has disbursed $418 million of loans to date, he said.  India  is seeking to increase clean-power capacity to almost
53,000 megawatts by 2017, when it forecasts 9 percent economic
growth. Utilities are adding renewables projects as a hedge
against inadequate fossil-fuel supplies in a nation where 56
percent of electricity is generated from coal.  Power Finance is able to make loans for renewables at rates
that are 25 basis points below the “normal” rates as it seeks
to encourage projects, Singh said.  The chairman was in London for talks with banks to raise
$250 million, which includes a $100 million three-year loan with
a $150 million so-called greenshoe option, whereby amounts may
be increased, he said. Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. and
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. are the lead arrangers, he said,
adding that he expects to close the deal this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  