-- Putin Blames Rich Nations While Seeking Bigger BRICS Crisis Role
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   P a u l   A b e l s k y
-- 2012-06-21T15:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/putin-out-to-stem-russia-oil-jitters-on-return-to-flagship-forum.html
Vladimir Putin  championed a bigger
role for leading emerging-market nations in navigating the
global economy, saying richer countries failed to contain the
debt crisis through “half-measures” and indecisiveness.  Putin, re-elected to his third term as Russian president in
March, said a $75 billion commitment to aid the  International
Monetary Fund  by the so-called BRICS group meant the world’s
largest developing nations should play a bigger role in steering
global finances.  “We have to move from declarations to real reform of the
IMF and other financial institutions, proceed to reform that
takes into account the real balance of power,” Putin said at
the annual  St. Petersburg  Economic  Forum  in his hometown,
Russia’s second-biggest city.  Twelve emerging-market nations formalized funding pledges
this week to the IMF, which is co-funding bailouts to Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal , to help almost double the fund’s lending
power to protect the world economy from Europe’s debt turmoil.  With the addition of new pledges, the Washington-based
lender said it has received funding commitments of $456 billion,
up from the roughly $430 billion it had secured in April. The
temporary contributions will add to the $380 billion the IMF
currently has available for lending.  Fair, Justified  “It’s fair and justified to raise a question about
strengthening the role of so-called developing nations and so-
called new economic powers in the context of formulating steps
that will determine the character of global economic order”
Putin said.  The Russian leader spoke in St. Petersburg after a slump in
oil prices extinguished gains in Russian equities and the ruble.
The three-day event, which his predecessor  Dmitry Medvedev 
spearheaded from 2008 to 2011, features foreign executives
including  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Vikram Pandit and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ’s  Lloyd Blankfein .  Brent crude, the grade that underpins prices for Russia’s
Urals export blend, has tumbled 16 percent this year as Europe’s
debt crisis worsened and China’s economy slowed. Russia should
cut the average oil price needed to balance the budget to $80 a
barrel from $117 to lure investors and reduce risk, Citigroup
Inc. strategist  Kingsmill Bond  said June 14. Energy exports
generate about half of budget revenue.  Emerging-market stock funds ended five consecutive weeks of
outflows in the week ended June 13, registering inflows of $919
million, according to EPFR Global. Total net investment into
emerging-market funds has totaled $17.6 billion in 2012 compared
with outflows of $13.84 billion for the same period of 2011.  BRICS Fund  Brazil, Russia, India, China and  South Africa , which
together make up the BRICS group, may set up an anti-crisis fund
if their demand for a greater say in the Washington-based lender
is rebuffed, said Russian Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak.  The five nations pledged $75 billion at the Group of 20
summit in Mexico yesterday to bolster the IMF’s capacity to help
limit contagion from the European sovereign-debt crisis. They
said they expected IMF members to reciprocate their contribution
by carrying out agreed changes that would bolster the voting
power of emerging economies in the organization.  China and Russia, holders of the world’s biggest and
fourth-largest currency reserves, and the other three BRICS
countries have agreed on a system of currency swaps that could
later be succeeded by an anti-crisis fund, Storchak told
reporters on his way back from Los Cabos,  Mexico .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Abelsky in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  