-- Queen’s Paycheck Gets Lift From Crown Estate’s Wind-Farms
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-06-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/queen-s-paycheck-gets-lift-from-crown-estate-s-wind-farms.html
Queen Elizabeth II , who celebrated
60 years on the British throne earlier this month, may see her
income rise 16 percent after lawmakers changed the way royal
finances are calculated and the Crown Estate reported record
earnings today.  The monarch will be entitled to 36 million pounds ($56
million) for the fiscal year through March 2014, up from 31
million pounds for the current year. Crown Estate’s  profit  grew
by 4 percent to 240.2 million pounds in fiscal 2012 on rising
revenue from land leased for offshore wind parks.  The  Sovereign Grant  covers expenses incurred by the Queen
in her duties as head of state and is pegged at 15 percent of
profit generated two years earlier by  Crown Estate , which
manages the real estate surrendered by the monarchy in 1760. The
measure, adopted last year, simplified grants previously made by
the Treasury and other government departments.  “They’re a landmark set of results,” Crown Estate Chief
Executive Officer Alison Nimmo said in interview at the
corporation’s office off Regent Street in central  London . The
48-year-old joined in January after overseeing the design,
construction of most venues for the London 2012 Olympic Games
and devising plans for their use after the event.  Profit was boosted by a 17 percent rise in revenue at the
marine estate, which leases sites used for  offshore wind farms .
The marine estate’s value climbed by 23 percent in fiscal 2012.  Wind Farms  The Crown Estate owns and manages the seabed around Britain
extending to 12 nautical miles offshore. It plans to invest 200
million pounds to establish offshore sites for operators to
install  wind turbines .  The company has offered sites for lease since 2000 and the
parks in operation currently generate 1.5 percent of the U.K.’s
electricity production. That will double next year as more sites
become operational, lifting income. Crown Estate also oversees
36 sites across the U.K. for tidal or wave-power generation,
Nimmo said.  “We will not allow revenues from offshore wind to lead to
a disproportionate rise in revenues to the royal household,”
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  told lawmakers last
year when he presented the sovereign grant bill. The size of the
payment is subject to the same kind of scrutiny as government
departments and is supervised by Royal Trustees, who include the
prime minister and chancellor of the exchequer.  The Queen’s other sources of income are the estates and
assets owned by the Duchy of Lancaster as well as her own
privately owned estates, Balmoral in Scotland and Sandringham in
eastern  England . The monarch owns the royal palaces, most of the
royal art collection and the crown jewels on behalf of the
nation and therefore is prohibited from selling them for her
personal gain.  Estate Appreciates  Nimmo replaced Roger Bright, who generated 2 billion pounds
of income for the Treasury and doubled the value of the estate
during his 10 years in charge.  Crown Estate is also the majority owner of Regent Street in
central London, half of the land in the St. James’s district in
the British capital as well as shopping centers across the U.K.,
golf courses, Ascot Racecourse and farms. It is prohibited from
borrowing and may only invest in real estate or U.K. government
bonds.  The estate’s assets appreciated by 11 percent to 8.1
billion pounds in fiscal 2012, it reported today.  Nimmo is proceeding with the next phases of a 1 billion-
pound project to revamp Regent Street. Work done so far has
already transformed it into one of the U.K.’s premier shopping
strips and persuaded Norway’s sovereign wealth fund to acquire a
25 percent stake in the street for 443 million pounds.  Regent Street  Earlier this month, Crown Estate broke ground on 200
million pounds of projects on Regent Street that will deliver
270,000 square feet (25,080 square meters) of new stores with
offices on the upper floors.  The 300 million-pound Quadrant 3 project, which was
completed in November, is now 70 percent leased after attracting
tenants including former U.S. Vice President  Al Gore ’s
Generation Investment Management.  The proceeds from the sale of the stake in Regent Street
will finance the redevelopment of the shopping strip and a 500
million-pound program for the St. James’s neighborhood. It has
also financed acquisitions to improve the balance between assets
owned outside London.  Crown Estate acquired shopping parks in  Milton Keynes  and
Swansea in fiscal 2012, lifting the value of its non-London
retail real estate above 1 billion pounds for the first time.  “We have a pretty good balance across asset classes and
geographically,” Nimmo said. She added that her initial full
year in charge of the corporation will involve “consolidating”
the portfolio and disposing of assets in locations, including
the  City of London  financial district.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 