-- Quest Accepts Higher Insight Bid of $25.75; Vector Added
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-06-20T20:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/quest-accepts-higher-insight-bid-of-25-75-vector-added.html
Quest Software Inc. (QSFT) , a maker of
tools to help companies manage computer systems, accepted a
sweetened $25.75-a-share bid from Insight Venture Partners and
agreed to the addition of Vector Capital to the buyout group.  Insight’s new cash offer of about $2.17 billion topped a
per-share bid of $25.50 that Quest received last week. That
offer came from personal-computer maker  Dell Inc. (DELL) , a person
familiar with the matter said yesterday. The deal’s termination
fee was increased to $25 million from $6.3 million, California-
based Quest said in a statement.  Quest said on March 9 it agreed to be acquired by Insight
for $23 a share, and two months later said it received several
other proposals that it anticipated would lead to a superior
offer. Chief Executive Officer Vincent Smith prefers a sale to
Insight over Dell because it would allow him to keep running the
company, said the person, who asked not to be named because the
negotiations are private. Dell may be willing to boost its bid,
said Abhey Lamba, an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc.  “Even if it were to go up to $26, Dell can make the
acquisition work,” Lamba said. “We are not sure if there are
other factors that are weighing on Quest management’s mind.”  David Frink , a spokesman for Dell, declined to comment.  Quest has  advanced  42 percent this year. The shares fell
less than 1 percent to $26.50 at the close in New York today,
giving it a market value of $2.23 billion.  Quest’s software helps businesses administer databases and
servers, as well as back up information and recover lost data.
Insight, a New York-based private equity firm, specializes in
software and Internet businesses.  Systems Management  Though Dell needs to add systems-management software like
Quest’s to keep up with rivals, the company may be limited in
how much it can offer because it initiated its first  dividend 
last week, tying up some of its cash, said Shaw Wu, an analyst
at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc.  “Dell just committed to pay a dividend,” Wu said. “That
restricts what they can do. When you make a commitment to pay a
dividend, you have to pay it. Buying Quest is optional.”  Dell, the world’s third-largest PC maker, told analysts at
a June 13 meeting it plans to use deals to boost revenue from
data-center hardware, software and services by 45 percent to
$27.5 billion by fiscal 2016, reducing the company’s reliance on
the slow-growing desktop and notebook computer business.  3Par Fight  The last time Dell engaged in a public takeover fight was
in 2010, when it lost storage company 3Par Inc. to  Hewlett-
Packard Co. (HPQ) , which bought it for $2.35 billion, after the 18-day
bidding war tripled the company’s market value.  Michael Dell , founder of the  Round Rock , Texas-based
company, told Bloomberg News last year that HP overpaid for
3Par, and he made the right decision in dropping out of the
process.  Insight and San Francisco-based Vector will each contribute
$187 million in equity to finance the acquisition, which will
also be funded by a rollover of at least 84 percent of Smith’s
existing shares and about $1.2 billion of debt, Quest said in
the statement. The contract includes no deadline for potential
counterbids.  J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  RBC Capital Markets  and  Barclays
Capital  are providing the debt financing, the company said.
Morgan Stanley is advising Quest on the deal.  Insight first invested in Quest in 1999 and was the
company’s largest institutional investor at the time of its IPO
that year, according to a Quest  filing  at the time. Insight co-
founder Jerry Murdock also served on Quest’s board of directors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  