-- Trading Surge in Index Behind JPMorgan Loss Signaling Unwind
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2012-06-20T17:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/trading-in-index-fueling-jpmorgan-loss-said-to-surge-amid-unwind.html
Trading in the credit derivatives
index that contributed to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s losses in its
London chief investment office soared to a record yesterday in a
sign that the biggest  U.S. bank  may be unwinding its position,
according to data cited by Credit Suisse Group AG.  Volume in Series 9 of the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index surged the past two days, with a record
$31 billion of the contracts, which expire December 2017, traded
yesterday, Credit Suisse traders said today in an e-mail to
market participants, citing data from Markit Group Ltd. That
compares with an average of $2 billion to $3 billion, the
traders said.  JPMorgan is seeking to stem at least $2 billion in trading
losses from the U.K. operation, where Bruno Iksil, known as the
London Whale, managed a portfolio of  credit derivatives  so large
it distorted the market. A strategy by the unit to reduce risks
from hedges backfired and left the bank with even bigger and
harder-to-manage exposures, Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
said last week before the Senate Banking Committee in
 Washington .  “They are trying to unwind, and they probably have been
trying to do some of it on a quiet basis,”  Scott MacDonald ,
head of research at MC Asset Management Holdings LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “When you
put on a large trade, it’s hard for people not to notice what
you’re doing. It’s been a very tough situation for them.”  Exiting Trade  The bank has sold 65 percent to 70 percent of its losing
position and is still selling the rest, CNBC reported earlier
today.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan in New
York, declined to comment.  Trading in the Markit CDX Series 9 the past three weeks is
signaling that JPMorgan may have exited much of the position
Iksil built this year. Dealers reduced the net amount of
protection they sold on Series 9 of the index by 35 percent to
$29.6 billion in the three weeks ended June 15, according to the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. That amount had climbed 53
percent to $45.8 billion in the 20 weeks ended June 1.  The surge in trading in the index this week suggests more
unwinds have occurred, the Credit Suisse traders wrote in the
note they sent to market participants.  Unprecedented Bets  Total net wagers on CDX Series 9  surged  an unprecedented 67
percent to $150 billion in the 17 weeks ended April 27 as Iksil
was said to have amassed his position, DTCC data show.  Bloomberg News first reported April 5 that the trader’s
bets, which Dimon has said was intended to reduce a hedge the
bank had put on to protect against a financial crisis or
deteriorating economy, were so large that market participants
said he was distorting prices. The people asked not to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to discuss the
trades.  Dimon declined to disclose the size of the loss when he
testified before Congress yesterday, saying the bank will
provide that information along with more details of the position
when JPMorgan reports earnings on July 13.  After Dimon disclosed the $2 billion loss on May 10, the
cost of CDX Series 9 swaps expiring in December 2017, the
contract market participants have said was at the heart of the
losses, surged as  hedge funds  and other traders placed opposite
bets that the bank would be forced to unwind its position.  Index Rises  After the disclosure, the index climbed as much as 49 basis
points to 175 basis points on June 5, according to prices from
data provider CMA. The contracts have since fallen back to 156
basis points, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  “You want to unwind it without losing your shirt, and at
the same time, everybody’s watching what you’re doing and
betting against you, so it’s a treacherous landscape to be
unwinding the trade in,” MC Asset Management’s MacDonald said.  Credit swaps protecting against a loss on JPMorgan, which
also jumped after the loss was announced, fell today to the
lowest since May 30. Five-year contracts declined 4.1 basis
points to 144.6 basis points as of 11:54 a.m. in  New York ,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The swaps, which typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates, pay the buyer face value
if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of
the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Of the six biggest U.S. banks, swaps tied to JPMorgan’s
debt are higher only than  Wells Fargo & Co ., at 106.3 basis
points, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  