-- RBS’s Hester Says Europe Crisis Resolution to Take Years
-- B y   S u s a n   L i   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-06-20T03:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/rbs-s-hester-says-solution-to-europe-debt-crisis-may-take-years.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said it may take years
before  Europe  finds a solution to the debt crisis as economies
in the region struggle to implement reforms.  “At issue is the ability for some countries in Europe,
particularly in southern Europe, to make themselves more
competitive,” Hester, 51, said today in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in Hong Kong. “In the meantime, we’re
talking about pieces of sticking plaster to buy time for
economic reform to bite.”  World leaders told Europe to pull together to overcome the
crisis and prevent further damage to the global economy after
Spain’s borrowing costs jumped even as Greek election results
eased concern about the first exit from the euro.  RBS (RBS)  shares
have lost 37 percent in the past year as the turmoil outweighed
Hester’s steps to repay loans, cut jobs and sell assets.  The RBS chief, who took the helm at the Edinburgh-based
lender in November 2008 following the U.K.’s largest bailout of
a bank, said now is the “wrong moment” for the government to
sell its stake as the company’s share price is “very low.”  “They want to sell,” he said. “They need to wait until
the crisis is past, economies are growing again.”  With contagion from the debt crisis rippling through the
world economy, participants at the Group of 20 summit in the
beach resort of Los Cabos backed measures to spur growth and cut
budgets in Europe. Euro-zone chiefs pledged to take “all
necessary policy measures” to defend the currency union.  Hester said the euro will probably survive the crisis.  ‘Strong Reasons’  “There are very strong reasons for the euro, at least as
it relates to the big countries, staying intact,” Hester said.
Policy makers need to focus on restoring the health of economies
in southern Europe such as  Spain , rather than on supporting
their financial institutions, he said.  The euro pared gains, falling 0.3 percent to 99.86 yen
today. The currency’s weakness comes before Spanish bond
auctions tomorrow, which may cast doubt over the country’s
funding capabilities. The nation is also readying a request for
as much as 100 billion euros ($127 billion) for its banks.  “The concentration on banks in the southern European area
is a bit of a red herring,” said Hester, whose company is
Britain’s biggest government-controlled bank after being rescued
by the U.K. government during the 2008-2009 global crisis. “Any
amount of recapitalization of banks, if the country itself is
not on the right track, is a waste of time.”  Borrowing Costs  G-20 leaders prodded Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
to spell out the scope of his country’s bank bailout as
government borrowing costs breached the 7 percent level that
forced sovereign bailouts for  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal .  In its final statement, the G-20 backed Europe’s plans to
consider a more integrated banking industry with common  deposit
insurance , a step that  Germany  has resisted. With attention
shifting to a summit of European Union leaders in Brussels on
June 28-29, the G-20 supported EU plans for closer economic
union “that lead to sustainable borrowing costs.”  RBS said on May 4 it was poised to return the last of the
emergency loans received in its rescue. The repayment of 164
billion pounds of emergency aid from British and American
taxpayers removes an obstacle to the lender’s return to private
ownership. RBS still has to exit a government program that
insures its riskiest assets, start paying dividends on ordinary
shares and boost the stock price.  ‘Crushing Effect’  The stock trades  at a level equivalent to less than half
the price at which taxpayers bought an 82 percent stake for
about 45.5 billion pounds. The shares have gained 21 percent
this year, compared with a 1.5 percent drop in the 43-stock
 Bloomberg Europe 500 Banks and Financial Services index .  “All share prices of banks are substantially below where
they used to be,” said Hester. “That’s partly people’s worries
about lack of economic growth, especially in the West, it’s
partly the crushing effect that dramatic reregulation is having
on bank returns.”  Hester had previously been CEO of London-based British Land
Co. and has had stints as chief financial officer and then chief
operating officer at Abbey National Plc, following 19 years at
 Credit Suisse First Boston . He had been appointed deputy
chairman of mortgage lender Northern Rock Plc in February 2008
after it was nationalized by the U.K.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  