-- U.S. 10-Year Notes Drop Before Fed Decision
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-06-20T14:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/treasuries-advance-before-spain-debt-sale-fed-policy-decision.html
Treasuries fell for a second day as
an agreement to form a new Greek government reduced the refuge
appeal of  U.S. debt  and traders speculated the  Federal Reserve 
will announce more monetary stimulus at today’s policy meeting.  Yields on 30-year bonds climbed to the highest level in a
week as a Bloomberg News survey forecast the central bank will
extend its Operation Twist program. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
will hold a press conference at about 2:15 p.m. Washington time
to explain the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s decision.  “The pressure is really on the back end,” said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury trading at
Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York. “The European crisis is
starting to abate, and it’s taking some pressure off the equity
markets. The question of twist or no twist is in the forefront
of Fed watchers’ minds.”  Thirty-year bond  yields climbed four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.77 percent at 10:53 a.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The yields, which rose
seven basis points yesterday, touched 2.78 percent, the highest
level since June 13. The price of the 3 percent security
maturing in May 2042 slid 3/4, or $7.50 per $1,000 face amount,
to 104 21/32.  Benchmark  10-year note  yields increased four basis points
to 1.66 percent.  More Expensive  A valuation measure showed U.S. 10-year notes declined from
almost the most expensive levels ever. The term premium, a model
created by economists at the Fed, was at negative 0.82 percent,
after reaching a record of negative 0.94 percent on June 1 as
investors sought refuge from Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value. The average
over the past decade is 0.50 percent.  Operation Twist, in which the central bank sells short-term
securities and buys the same amount of longer-term debt to
lengthen the average  maturity  of its holdings and keep borrowing
costs low, is set to expire this month. The difference in yield
between two- and 30-year securities was 249 basis points. It has
narrowed from 304 basis points on Sept. 20, the day before the
central bank announced the plan.  “No one can say with any degree of certainty what the Fed
might do,” said  Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $1.9 billion
as chief investment officer at United Nations Federal Credit
Union in New York. “Given the pace of growth in the U.S. and
the failure of the  U.S. economy  to generate sufficient jobs to
bring down the  unemployment rate  and inflation easing, one might
feel the Fed is obligated to do more. But growth is continuing
in a modest way, and the risk of contagion in Europe has eased
some, so the Fed might hold some policy in reserve against a
further flair up later down the road.”  Fed Expectations  Fifty-eight percent of respondents in a June 18 poll said
the Fed will prolong the program, and 60 percent said the Fed
probably won’t announce a third round of large-scale asset-
purchases, or quantitative easing, at the meeting. Sixty-four
economists responded to the Bloomberg survey.  The Fed may extend the Operation Twist program to January
2013, according to Credit Suisse Group AG analysts. That would
involve Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities, the analysts,
led by  Carl Lantz , head of interest-rate strategy in New York,
wrote in a research note yesterday.  If the Fed extended the program, the U.S. yield curve would
flatten, said Eric Wand, a fixed-income strategist at Lloyds
Banking Group Plc in  London , meaning longer-term yields would
decrease relative to shorter maturities. A third round of QE
would lead to the curve steepening, he said.  Yield Forecasts  U.S. 30-year yields are projected to rise to 3.24 percent
by year-end, while two-year yields may climb to 0.39 percent,
according to strategist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Long-bond yields may struggle to climb above their June 11
high of 2.85 percent, and then at their May 22 high of 2.90
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg based on
technical indicators.  The Fed is not alone in considering extra steps to
stimulate the economy.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  and
three other policy makers were overruled this month as they
pushed to expand the bank’s bond-purchase program, meeting
minutes showed today. European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  left the door open for a rate cut at a June 6 press
conference.  Treasuries returned 3.1 percent from March 30 through
yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes,
amid concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will weigh on U.S. growth. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 3.1 percent.  Greek Government  Greek political leaders struck an agreement on a governing
coalition that will seek relief from austerity measures tied to
emergency loans. Antonis Samaras, head of the New Democracy
party, will probably be sworn in as prime minister today, said a
party official who asked not to be identified.  Euro-area leaders at a Group of 20 summit that ended
yesterday pledged to take “all necessary policy measures” to
defend the currency union.  Bernanke said on June 7 that Europe’s situation poses
“significant risks” to the U.S. economy and that the Fed was
prepared to take action if necessary.  The  U.S. Treasury  is scheduled to announce tomorrow the
amount of bonds it will auction next week. It will probably sell
$35 billion of two-year notes on June 26, the same amount of
five-year securities the next day and $29 billion of seven-year
debt on June 28, according to Wrightson ICAP LLC, an economic
advisory company in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  