-- Red Hook’s Pok Pok Serves Hot $16 Pork Neck: Ryan Sutton
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-06-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/red-hook-s-pok-pok-serves-hot-16-pork-neck-ryan-sutton.html
Pok Pok NY, in Red Hook,  Brooklyn ,
is a family-friendly Thai restaurant with good food and lousy
service.  The place -- the name means mortar and pestle -- is small
and geared toward locals, yet Manhattanites drop $35 on a cab
ride for $10 eggplant. It’s excellent eggplant.  There’s a small crowd waiting when the doors open at 5:30
p.m. Latecomers may be dispatched to a backyard tent decorated
with hanging flower pots, Christmas lights and plastic
tablecloths.  This is the holding pen, where patrons snack on warm shrimp
chips and staffers, on those rare occasions when they can be
flagged down, take orders for drinks.  One house specialty is a tamarind whiskey sour ($10). Tart
and cooling, it goes well with Da Chom’s laap meuang, a fiery
mince of pork speckled with chiles, cracklings, garlic and
shallots ($14).  Too bad the dish, like your table, is probably still an
hour away.  The ringmaster is  Oregon ’s Andy Ricker, a  Portland  chef who
imported his trade to New York’s Lower East Side in January with
Pok Pok Wing, a Southeast Asian fried-chicken spot, and now to
Brooklyn.  Pok Pok NY  is the more ambitious venue, serving about
27 sharable plates, 16 cocktails, 8 beers, 6 single-malt
scotches, 3 wines and, improbably, 30 bourbons.  Most of the mixed drinks are shaken with enough acid to
quell the heat of the spicy pork bone soup with frogs legs
($14).  Water Pairing  With its single bar servicing diners and tent-dwellers, Pok
Pok is big on keeping you waiting. For our hoi thawt ($14), a
broken crepe with heady mussels, chewy eggs and bean sprouts, we
had to sip water.  All restaurants have a few inconveniences. Pok Pok has
many. Reservations are not accepted. There’s only one bathroom.
And leave your Amex card at home.  It’s all a bit aggravating until a waitress ferries over
what could be the world’s tallest gin and tonic ($9). Infused
with kaffir, the drink has the taste and aroma of a lime peel on
steroids.  Sip it with charcoal-grilled pork neck ($16). The fatty,
smoky slices of  Niman Ranch  swine sit in a powerfully acidic
pool of citrus and chile. But a week later, that same pork neck
is gristly.  Outside, the lights of lower Manhattan glow in the light
of dusk. Pok Pok, on occasion, offers such only-in- New York 
moments of bliss. More often, it crosses the line from casual to
careless.  Muddy Greens  Muddy mustard greens are garnished with under-rendered pork
ribs ($12). Brussels sprouts ($10) never arrive, but you’re
charged for them anyway.  The waitress might forget your order. Patrons raid the
service stations for napkins or chopsticks when staffers
disappear.  Papaya pok pok ($8.50) is a terrific salad made to order
with tamarind, malty fish sauce, dried shrimp, long beans and
peanuts. Add salted black crab with dried chilies and it becomes
incendiary.  This isn’t Kin Shop, Harold Dieterle’s excellent American
love-letter to Thailand. This is, as Pok Pok’s  website  states,
non-fusion food that’s actually eaten in  Thailand , a fury of
spice and herbs.  The results are inconstant. Sometimes you get fireworks,
sometimes not. Kai yaang, made with an expensive breed of
poultry ($12 half or $20 whole), has its subtle flavors
overpowered by garlic. Flank steak ($14) shows off mint and
cilantro, but the beef is bland, gray and overcooked.  Catfish salad ($14) strikes a better balance, its delicate
maritime flavor somehow surviving the heat. Chiang mai sausage
is equal parts meat and lemongrass -- gorgeous.  Finish off with affogato made with sweet condensed-milk ice
cream, Vietnamese coffee and fresh doughnuts. Then hunt down
your waiter for a check.  Rating: *  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Most dishes $15 or under.  Sound Level: Around 80 decibels, often piercing.  Date Place: If strollers turn you on.  Inside Tip: Try the not-too-spicy pork shoulder curry.  Special Feature: No-booze “drinking vinegars” like
pomegranate mixed with plain soda, are the new rage (for some).  Back on My Own Dime: I’m more of a  Kin Shop  guy.  Pok Pok NY is at 127 Columbia Street, Brooklyn.
Information: +1-718-923-9322;  http://www.pokpokny.com .  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  James Pressley  on books and  Zinta
Lundborg  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 