-- Reliance Said to Offer 250 Basis-Point Margin on 5-Year Loan
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-06-20T12:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/reliance-said-to-offer-250-basis-point-margin-on-1-billion-loan.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of
the world’s largest oil-refining complex, is offering to pay a
margin of about 250 basis points for a $1 billion, five-year
loan, according to a person familiar with the matter.  The margin is over the London interbank offered rate, or
Libor, and proceeds will be used for capital expenditure, the
person said, asking not to be identified because the information
is private.  Reliance is spending $8 billion to increase its
petrochemical capacity betting Indian demand for materials used
to make plastics and polyester will help counter weaker global
fuel sales. That’s part of an $18 billion investment plan aimed
at doubling operating profit over the next five years as
outlined by billionaire Chairman  Mukesh Ambani  at the company’s
shareholder meeting in Mumbai earlier this month.  Tushar Pania, a Mumbai-based spokesman, declined to comment
on the $1 billion financing when contacted by telephone today.  The Mumbai-based company has a $1.5 billion loan maturing
May 2016, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The facility,
signed in December 2010, pays a margin of as much as 200 basis
points more than Libor, the data show. A basis point is the
equivalent of 0.01 percentage point.  Reliance shares were little changed at 737.4 rupees at
close in Mumbai. The stock has gained 6.4 percent this year,
compared with a 9.3 percent increase in the BSE  India  Sensitive
Index.  Largest Borrowing  Reliance signed a 13-year loan, equivalent to $2 billion,
backed by credit insurer  Euler Hermes SA (ELE)  with nine banks in May,
the largest such borrowing by India’s biggest energy company
since May 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The cost of insuring Reliance’s bonds against non-payment
using credit-default swaps has tumbled 78 basis points this year
to 322.5 on June 19, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market.  Swaps insuring the debt of  State Bank of India (SBIN) , considered
a proxy for government debt, have fallen 23 basis points to 372
over the same period, CMA data show.  Credit-default swaps are debt instruments for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anurag Joshi, George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at  ajoshi53@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  