-- Rihanna Takes on Jay-Z, Foodie Fest: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-06-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/rihanna-takes-on-jay-z-foodie-fest-london-weekend.html
Imagine a job interview with a
leering shrink.  That’s what an aspiring secretary faces in the opening
scenes from Joe Orton’s “What the Butler Saw” at the
Vaudeville Theatre. As the lecherous Dr. Prentice endeavors to
make her undress, his alcoholic wife barges in.  Expect generous helpings of role reversal, quid pro quo and
all the other ingredients of an old-fashioned farce.  Sean Foley  directs, and standup comedian Omid Djalili plays
a psychiatric inspector. At the Vaudeville Theatre. Information:
 http://www.nimaxtheatres.com  or +44-844-412-4663.  Rules is a fine traditional dining place nearby. Opened in
1798, it boasts plenty of past literary guests, including Graham
Greene.  Information:  http://www.rules.co.uk/  or +44-20-7836-5314.  Saturday  Taste of London  opens in Regent’s Park, showcasing the
creations of leading U.K. chefs. Chefs signed up to  give a
demonstration  are: Raymond Blanc,  Jamie Oliver ,  Angela Hartnett ,
Michel Roux Jr., Bruno Loubet (Bistrot Bruno Loubet), Jason Atherton (Pollen Street Social), and Francesco Mazzei (L’Anima).  You can also wander around and try dishes from restaurants
such as Club Gascon and Le Gavroche. Tokens bought at the gate
can be exchanged for food and a chance to meet chefs such as
Nuno Mendes (of Viajante),  Gary Rhodes  and U.S. stars  David Chang  and Wolfgang Puck.  There are afternoon and evening sessions, and they sell
quickly, so book ahead. Tickets -- not including the tokens --
cost 28 pounds at the door (14 pounds for children).
Information:  http://www.tastefestivals.com/london/ .  Saturday Night  The lineup for Radio 1’s Hackney Weekend makes it one of
the best summer rock festivals in London.  Jay-Z headlines Saturday’s show which also includes
Kasabian, Example,  Jack White  and Will.i.am.  Sunday’s show raises the dance stakes with Rihanna bidding
to outdo Jay-Z. Jessie J, Tinie Tempah, Florence & the Machine
and Lana Del Rey also star.  Those who don’t have one of the free-issue tickets can
catch highlights on BBC radio and TV broadcasts.  Hackney Marshes, Homerton Rd, London, E9 5PF. Information:
 http://www.bbc.co.uk .  Alternatively, opera’s lovably eccentric couple is back on
stage together.  Angela Gheorghiu  and  Roberto Alagna  appear in
the appealingly picturesque production of “ La Boheme ” at the
Royal Opera House 20 years after they first showed up there as
Mimi and Rodolfo.  If you can’t get in, see another doomed Italian romance.
The new production of “Lucia di Lamermoor” at Opera  Holland
Park  tells the dramatic story of Lucia, whose brother makes her
marry against her will. Sets include a black slate backdrop and
metal railings that shut like cages. Tenor Aldo Di Toro and
bass-baritone Keel Watson stand out.  Information:  http://www.operahollandpark.com  or
+44-300-999-1000.  Sunday  Is that Princess Beatrice wearing a sink plunger hat?  Pas du tout: It’s 16-year-old Helena Fourment, child bride
of the 53-year-old painter Peter Paul Rubens, who produced the
handsome drawing of her now hanging in the Courtauld Institute.
The strange contraption was used to hang a veil on; if you wear
a funny hat on three late opening nights (June 28, Aug. 2, or
Sept. 6), you’ll get to see the show for free.  Headgear aside, “Mantegna to Matisse” is an assortment of
some of the finest drawings you’ll ever see from the Renaissance
onwards. Don’t miss the French corner: Ingres’s stunning studies
for the reclining woman in his legendary “La Grande
Odalisque;” Seurat’s shaded pencil sketch of a model; and the
prostitute in bed looking right at you, or rather at the artist
Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec.  “Mantegna to Matisse: Master Drawings from the Courtauld
Gallery” ends Sept. 9, and goes to the Frick Collection in  New
York  next. Information:  http://www.courtauld.ac.uk  or
+44-20-7848-2526.  To contact the writer of this story:
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 