-- RIM’s Job Cuts Under Way as Company Seeks $1B in Savings
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2012-06-20T20:29:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/rim-s-job-cuts-under-way-as-company-seeks-1b-in-savings.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , the
struggling maker of the BlackBerry smartphone, is cutting jobs
as part of a broad cost-saving effort aimed at trimming $1
billion in operating expenses.  “RIM has committed to achieving significant efficiencies
and operating cost reductions over the course of this fiscal
year,” Tenille Kennedy, a spokeswoman for the Waterloo,
Ontario-based company, said yesterday in an e-mail. “Headcount
reductions are part of this initiative.”  RIM has said it aims to save the $1 billion in operating
costs annually by cutting the number of manufacturing sites. RIM
also is “reviewing its organizational efficiency” across the
company. Electronics supplier Celestica Inc. announced this week
that it will cease manufacturing the BlackBerry as part of RIM’s
effort to streamline its supply chain.  The shakeup may lead to job cuts of 2,000 to 3,000,
assuming RIM tries to eliminate 30 percent of the targeted
operating expenses through labor reductions, according to Sameet Kanade, an analyst at Northern Securities Inc. in Toronto. The
move follows a round of 2,000 cuts announced about a year ago.  Stock Drop  Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins is working to renew
faith in the company after a stock decline of 60 percent in the
past 12 months. RIM plans to release a new lineup of phones
based on the BlackBerry 10 operating system this year, an
attempt to regain market share from Apple Inc.’s iPhone and
devices running Google Inc.’s Android.  RIM shares  fell 3.9 percent to $10.33 at the close in New
York. The stock has declined 29 percent in 2012.  Nokia Oyj, another mobile-phone manufacturer trying to turn
around its operations, is cutting jobs as well. The Finnish
company plans to eliminate as many as 10,000 positions and will
shut down production and research sites.  The Wall Street Journal  reported earlier  on RIM’s job cuts,
saying the company has been laying off small batches of
employees for several weeks. RIM is doing the cuts in groups of
at least 10, the Journal said, citing unnamed people familiar
with the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in  New York  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  