-- Rio Tinto Commits $4.2 Billion to Expand Iron Ore Production
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-06-20T08:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/rio-tinto-commits-4-2-billion-to-expand-iron-ore-production.html
Rio Tinto  Group, the world’s second-
largest exporter of  iron ore , has committed $4.2 billion to
expanding mines in Australia’s Pilbara and the Simandou
operation in Guinea as Chinese demand grows.  It will spend $3.7 billion expanding a mine, building new
port berths and extending railways in  Western Australia  as part
of a plan to boost output to 353 million metric tons a year by
2015, the London-based company said in a statement today. It
also allocated $501 million to building rail and port at its
Simandou development project in Guinea.  Rio, which ranks behind Brazil’s  Vale SA (VALE3)  for iron ore
exports, is expanding output for the steelmaking ingredient
while flagging plans to trim spending on other commodities.
 China , the world’s largest steel producer, will boost output by
43 percent to 1 billion tons by 2030 as it continues to
urbanize, according to Rio.  “We are directing investment to projects that will
generate the most attractive returns for shareholders and are
resilient under any probable macroeconomic scenario,” Chief
Executive Officer Tom Albanese said today in the statement.  Rio gained 1.7 percent to A$57.72 at the close in Sydney
trading, paring its decline for the past year to 25 percent.  Rationing Spending  Mining company valuations have plunged 24 percent in the
last 12 months on concern global economic uncertainty will curb
commodity demand. Iron ore prices have dropped 21 percent in the
same period, according to The Steel Index.  Rio today said it would reduce its  capital spending ,
joining  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  in rationing cash as prices tumbled.
Rio said June 16 it is conducting an organizational review that
may lead to job cuts and staff relocations in Australia to cut
costs.  The company withdrew from talks to take part in a A$9
billion ($9.2 billion) port expansion in Queensland where some
of its coal mines are located, Rio said in April, citing
economic volatility and higher costs.  The project approvals announced today won’t affect plans
for $16 billion in capital spending for this year, Rio said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  