-- Van Rompuy’s Euro Blueprint Said to Have Options on Bills
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-06-21T10:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/rompuy-blueprint-said-to-include-options-on-debt-bank-oversight.html
European Union President Herman  Van Rompuy ’s blueprint for the future of the euro is shaping up to
include a discussion of jointly issued short-term bills, a debt-
redemption fund and common banking supervision, according to two
officials familiar with the work on the project.  The findings will be presented to EU leaders in Brussels
next week by Van Rompuy, European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , European Commission President  Jose Barroso  and
Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of euro-
area finance ministers. The report is confidential and still in
development, and it isn’t clear whether it will include a
recommended course of action along with its highlighted topics,
said the officials, who asked not to be identified.  Euro-area finance chiefs meet today in Luxembourg as policy
makers struggle to find ways to shore up confidence in the euro
as  Greece ’s debt woes and soaring Spanish bond yields tear at
the fabric of the 17-nation currency bloc. EU leaders clashed
over joint debt sales in May, leading them to ask Van Rompuy to
set out “building blocks” toward more integration. Jointly
issued debt and cross-border deposit insurance were two of the
areas flagged for closer study.  As the report comes together, the officials said, work is
focusing on two possible debt options: jointly issued short-term
bills and a debt redemption fund, as has been proposed by
economic advisers to German Chancellor  Angela Merkel . Neither
idea has gained traction with Merkel, who also is resisting
separate proposals for direct sovereign-debt purchases through
the euro-area bailout fund.  Eight Years  While French President  Francois Hollande  is pushing to use
the European Stability Mechanism to purchase indebted nations’
bonds as a way to counter rising yields, such a move “is not up
for debate” at present, Merkel said yesterday.  Spain  today paid
the most in at least eight years to sell three-year debt ahead
of stress-test results that will determine how much its banks
need from European rescue funds.  Issuance of short-term bills and a debt redemption fund
would each represent progress from current country-specific
borrowing arrangements, though both have limits that may make
them intermediate steps toward jointly issued medium- and long-
term debt. Euro bills would have very short maturities, thus
limiting common exposure, said one of the officials.  Redemption Fund  A redemption fund could use pooled money to pay down
existing bonds and lower the debt levels of participating
nations, without changing the way countries borrow going
forward, one of the officials said.  A spokesman for the ECB declined to comment. Two
spokespeople for Van Rompuy weren’t available to comment.  On the banking front, the report may clear the way for more
integrated bank supervision by signaling plans to consolidate
regulation across the 17-nation euro area and possibly other
countries as well, the officials said.  Coordinated supervisory powers could be taken on by either
the ECB or the European Banking Authority, the officials said.
The Frankfurt-based ECB could be given the new powers under
clauses in existing treaties and may serve as an umbrella over
national supervisors, rather than building a separate
organization, officials said.  The EBA would have to take on new duties in its role of
implementing legislation enacted by the European Parliament and
member nations, one of the officials said.  Supervision Mandate  The U.K., which is not a member of the euro, would probably
not be part of the combined supervision mandate, both officials
said. Instead, any common supervision would likely encompass the
euro area and countries that may some day join the euro. Those
nations not currently in the common currency might further be
given discretion over whether to opt in to the rule, one of the
officials said.  The report is unlikely to call for immediate action on a
cross-border  deposit insurance  fund, the officials said.
Instead, the European Commission probably will offer new
proposals on that topic in the last quarter of 2012, one of the
officials said.  The Brussels-based commission, the EU’s regulatory arm,
this month proposed requiring senior unsecured creditors to
absorb losses when banks fail, in a proposal that also requires
national-level resolution funds that would coordinate and
backstop each other across borders when necessary.  EU rules require countries to have national deposit
insurance guarantee plans; as yet there are no formal proposals
for an EU-wide deposit guarantee backstop.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  