-- Rosneft to More Than Double Dividend on 2011 Profit, Sechin Says
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2012-06-20T10:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/rosneft-to-more-than-double-dividend-on-2011-profit-sechin-says.html
OAO Rosneft,  Russia ’s biggest oil
producer, plans to more than double planned dividends, boosting
the payout to 25 percent of last year’s profit, following an
order from President  Vladimir Putin .  State-run Rosneft will increase total dividends to 7.53
rubles a share for 2011, Chief Executive Officer  Igor Sechin 
said at today’s annual meeting in  St. Petersburg . The board had
recommended 3.45 rubles a share in April. The additional payout
of 43.2 billion rubles ($1.3 billion) will go to the board for
approval, said Dmitry Avdeev, a company vice president.  Rosneft  shares  reversed losses, gaining as much as 0.8
percent and traded up 0.5 percent at 202 rubles at 2:53 p.m. in
Moscow.  “The dividend increase will go mainly to the Sechin-led
state company Rosneftegaz, giving it more cash for
acquisitions,”  Alexander Nazarov , an oil and gas analyst at OAO
Gazprombank, said by phone. Sechin is board chairman of
Rosneftegaz, which holds 75 percent of Rosneft.  Putin has said Rosneftegaz may bid in state assets sales
and use its “significant financial resource” to bolster
national energy companies. Rosneftegaz may gain stakes in
Federal Grid Co. and OAO MRSK Holding, which manages
interregional power distribution, Kommersant reported May 29,
citing unidentified officials. It may also get shares in state
power generator and exporter OAO Inter RAO UES, Nazarov said.  State Sale  Putin told Sechin that Rosneft should pay 25 percent of its
profit as dividends last week at a meeting in Tuapse, a Black
Sea city where the oil producer runs a refinery. Sechin said
today that that level will be maintained in future.  Selling part of the Russian state’s stake in Rosneft only
makes sense this year at a price higher than at its initial
public offering in 2006, Sechin said today. The stock trades
about 18 percent lower than the IPO price of $7.55 a share, and
less than 1 percent below the ruble equivalent at the time.  The company returned additional cash to shareholders via a
68.3 billion ruble share buyback this May, Sechin said. Those
who didn’t participate in the buyback increased their stakes, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  