-- Ross Buys Magritte for $11.3 Million, Nine Times Estimate
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-06-21T16:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/ross-buys-magritte-work-for-11-3-million-nine-times-estimate.html
U.S. billionaire  Wilbur Ross  paid
$11.3 million for a Rene Magritte painting in London last night
as collectors battled for Impressionist and modern art.  Magritte’s 1928 work “Les jours gigantesques” (The
Titanic Days), showing a suited man grappling with a naked woman
in the silhouette of a single figure, went for a price with fees
that was nine times its lower hammer-price estimate of 800,000
pounds ($1.25 million) in a 70-lot sale at Christie’s
International.  Investors are testing high-value art as a haven from
volatile financial markets. Art collector Ross, seated in the
front of the saleroom, was asked by Bloomberg News what he
thought of the price, the second highest given for the Belgian
Surrealist.  “Well, I paid it,” said Ross, who is chairman of WL Ross
& Co., which is known for buying distressed assets in industries
from steel to financial services. Ross is also known for his
collection of Surrealist works, according to art dealers.  The Magritte at 7.2 million pounds was the second-highest
price of an auction that raised 92.6 million pounds against a
low estimate of 74.5 million pounds with 80 percent of the lots
finding buyers. There was a bigger quota of quality works by
prestigious artists than at  Sotheby’s (BID)  the previous evening,
where 31 percent of the lots were unsuccessful, said dealers.  Lucky Man  “That painting was seminal for our understanding of
Magritte,” said the London-based dealer Daniella Luxembourg,
who was one of the underbidders. “There’s a lot more interest
in Surrealism and its origins. It’s an early work influenced by
Freud, and there’s only one of these compositions in private
hands. Whoever bought it is a lucky man.”  The canvas had not been offered at auction before. The only
other version is in a Dusseldorf museum, Christie’s said.  The cover lot of the auction catalog was Renoir’s 1888
canvas “Baigneuse.” The painting had been acquired by its
seller at Sotheby’s,  New York , in November 1997 for $20.9
million, the third highest price paid for the French
Impressionist at auction.  Scheduled to be re-offered for 12 million pounds to 18
million pounds, it was sold privately before the event for a
price that was within the estimate, Jussi Pylkkanen, Christie’s
European president, said in the post-sale news conference.  Impressionist and Post-Impressionist paintings were the
most expensive artworks in the world during the boom years of
the 1980s. Ryoei Saito, the head of the Daishowa Paper
Manufacturing Company, paid a record $78.1 million for Renoir’s
cafe scene “Au Moulin de la Galette” at Sotheby’s, New York, in
May 1990.  Bacon, Giacometti  The value and popularity of Impressionist art has
subsequently declined. Billionaire collectors now pay higher
prices for trophy works by postwar names such as  Francis Bacon 
and  Alberto Giacometti .  With the Renoir out of the sale last night, Picasso
generated the evening’s two other most substantial prices. The
New York-based dealer William Acquavella gave a top price of 8.6
million pounds for the 1949 canvas “Femme assise,” showing
Picasso’s partner  Francoise Gilot  pregnant with their daughter
Paloma.  Entered from a Californian collection, it had been valued
at 5 million pounds to 7 million pounds.  Afghan Hound  Picasso’s 1962 canvas “Femme au chien,” depicting his
second wife  Jacqueline Roque  with their favorite Afghan hound,
sold to a telephone bidder for 7 million pounds. Making its
auction debut, having been in the same family collection since
1974, the painting had been guaranteed to succeed, thanks to a
third-party “irrevocable bid.” The estimate was 6 million
pounds to 9 million pounds.  A third party also guaranteed the success of a group of 14
Edgar Degas bronzes from an unidentified private collection. The
sculptures were from a sought-after series made in 1921 by the
A.A. Hebrard foundry from the original plaster models created by
the artist. Each figure was cast in an edition of 22.  The group raised 11 million pounds with a top price of 2.8
million pounds for a study derived from the 1879-1881 “Little
Dancer.”  Equestrian subjects soared above estimate. At least half a
dozen bidders competed for “Cheval au galop sur le pied droit”
before it was sold to a telephone bid of 2.6 million pounds. It
had been valued at 300,000 pounds to 400,000 pounds and would
have yielded the guarantor a handsome share of the “upside”
above the estimate, dealers said.  “That was an exceptional collection,” the London-based
dealer  Offer Waterman  said in an interview. “The horse racing
crowd must have been behind some of that bidding. Those prices
will re-calibrate the market for Degas sculptures.”  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford’s  art reviews,  Jason
Harper  on cars and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in  London  at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 