-- RTS Futures Rise as Norilsk Gains on Stimulus: Russia
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-06-20T00:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/rts-futures-rise-as-norilsk-gains-on-stimulus-russia.html
Russian  stock futures  climbed and
 OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (NILSY)  rose for a fourth day in New York on
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will approve monetary stimulus
that will fuel demand for commodities.  The  RTS stock-index futures  added 0.3 percent to 135,020.
The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded Russian
companies listed in the U.S. gained 0.8 percent to 88.51 in New
York yesterday. Norilsk, the world’s biggest nickel producer,
and  OAO Gazprom (OGZPY) , the world’s biggest natural gas producer,
jumped to one-month highs.  OAO RusHydro (RSHYY)  led declines after
 Kommersant  reported that the country’s largest hydropower
company may hold a secondary public offering.  Signs of  faltering growth  with inflation below a 2 percent
target mean the Fed will announce new steps to boost the economy
as soon as this week’s meeting, according to 12 of the 21
primary dealers who trade with the central bank.  Russia , the
world’s biggest energy exporter and the largest producer of
nickel and palladium, got almost 50 percent of budget revenue
from oil and gas sales last year.  “Investors expect new stimulus measures in U.S. and
globally,” Andrey Tretelnikov, an analyst at Rye MAN & Gor
Securities in Moscow, said by phone yesterday. “Russian stocks
are very sensitive to such measures, or even expectations of the
measures, because it spells out potential demand for oil, metals
and commodities overall.”  Russia ETF Advances  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, climbed 1.1 percent to $26.20, the highest
since May 11. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected
swings in the index futures, fell 1 percent to 36.32 points in
New York.  The Fed will review new forecasts at its two-day meeting
ending today as it contends with continuing financial stress in
Europe and a U.S. unemployment rate that has remained above 8
percent for 40 consecutive months. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Jefferies Group Inc. predict policy makers will extend the Fed’s
so-called Operation Twist. The $400 billion program, which was
announced in September, involved selling short-maturity debt and
buying longer-term bonds.  Oil traded near a today high and commodities climbed to the
highest level in seven days on the stimulus speculation.  Norilsk Nickel  gained 1.6 percent to $16.45 in New York
yesterday, the highest close since May 11.  Vladimir Potanin ’s
Interros Holding, which controls 28 percent of Norilsk, asked
Norilsk’s board to increase its stake, according to two people
with knowledge of the request. The board meets on June 28.  Anton Muravyev, an Interros spokesman, declined to comment,
as did Alisa Fialko, a Norilsk spokeswoman.  ‘Prefer Liquid’  OAO Sberbank (SBRCY)  rose 1.7 percent to $10.75 in New York
yesterday, the highest level since May 16, reversing a discount
to the bank’s Moscow-traded shares.  Renaissance Capital  said
Sberbank is its top pick among Russian banking shares in an e-
mailed report yesterday.  “As always in volatile times, we prefer liquid over less
liquid stocks,”  David Nangle  and Svetlana Kovalskaya, analysts
at Renaissance Capital, wrote in an e-mailed report yesterday
from Moscow. “And of Russian banking blue-chip names, we prefer
Sberbank.”  Nangle and Kovalskaya reiterated their recommendation
investors buy Sberbank’s shares. They set a 12-month target
price at $4.1 per common share and $3.3 per preferred share,
according to the report.  OAO RusHydro, the nation’s largest hydropower producer,
tumbled 3.7 percent to $2.58. Rosneftegaz may acquire RusHydro’s
40 percent stake in Irkutskenergo from Inter RAO UES through a
subsidiary, Kommersant newspaper said yesterday, citing people
familiar with the plan.  Additional Shares  Rosneftegaz may then transfer the stake in Irkutskenergo
and invest 85 billion rubles ($2.62 billion) for a 25.8 percent
stake in RusHydro, for which the company would have to issue
additional shares, Kommersant reported.  An e-mailed message after hours to Elena Vishnyakova, head
of RusHydro’s press office based in Moscow, seeking comment on
the Kommersant report, was not returned.  OAO Lukoil (LUKOY) , Russia’s second-biggest oil producer after OAO
Rosneft, advanced 0.8 percent to $54.12, the highest since May
15, and traded at a 0.2 percent premium to the company’s Moscow-
listed  shares .  Ilya Balabanovsky, an analyst at Renaissance Capital in
London recommended investors buy Lukoil’s London-listed ADRs,
compared with a previous recommendation to hold, according to a
report yesterday which reiterated the 12-months price target at
$75 per share.  Gazprom rose 1.5 percent to $9.72 in New York yesterday,
the highest since May 11.  Oil for July delivery, which expires today, gained 0.9
percent to $84.03 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
yesterday. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index advanced 0.8
percent to 586.31.  Brent oil for August settlement declined 0.3 percent to
$95.76 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange
yesterday. Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend, slumped 0.3
percent to $94.07 yesterday, the lowest since Jan. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  