-- Rupiah Snaps Two-Day Drop as Fed May Add Stimulus; Bonds Advance
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-06-20T02:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/rupiah-snaps-two-day-drop-as-fed-may-add-stimulus-bonds-advance.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah snapped a two-day
loss and bonds advanced on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
announce stimulus measures that may spur demand for emerging-
market assets.  The Fed will take steps to boost the  U.S. economy  after
finishing a two-day meeting today, according to 12 of the 21
primary dealers who trade with the central bank. Jobless claims
in the world’s largest economy unexpectedly rose in the week
ended June 9 and May consumer prices fell by the most in three
years, according to official data.  Foreign funds  have pulled 1.6
trillion rupiah ($169 million) from Indonesian  government bonds 
this month through June 12, finance ministry data show.  “Looking at the weak economic data from the U.S., most
likely we will see the Fed opening up to the option of adding
stimulus,” said Rully Nova, a currency analyst at PT Bank
Himpunan Saudara 1906 in Jakarta. “That would be positive for
emerging-market currencies.”  The rupiah strengthened 0.1 percent to 9,461 per dollar as
of 8:54 a.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, which
measures exchange-rate swings used to price options, dropped 50
basis points, or 0.50 percentage point, to 11.50 percent.  “The central bank has added more incremental measures to
reduce volatility in the rupiah and more are in the offing,”
analysts at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. led by  David Carbon  in
 Singapore  wrote in a report today, referring to regulations
introduced in March and dollar term deposits offered this month.
“More steps could be taken in this direction in the coming
months.”  The  yield  on the government’s benchmark 10-year bonds fell
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 6.35 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Indonesia raised 6.9 trillion
rupiah ($730 million) in a debt auction yesterday, exceeding its
5 trillion rupiah target, the debt management office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  