-- Russian Unemployment Plunges to Lowest in at Least 13 Years
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-06-20T16:56:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/russian-unemployment-rate-plunges-to-lowest-in-at-least-13-years.html
Russia ’s unemployment rate fell to
the lowest level in at least 13 years last month and retail-
sales growth unexpectedly accelerated, supporting the central
bank’s decision to leave borrowing costs unchanged.  The jobless rate dropped 0.4 percentage point to 5.4
percent, a level last seen four years ago and the lowest since
at least 1999, the Moscow-based Federal Statistics Service said
today in an e-mailed report. That’s less than the 5.7 percent
median forecast of 12 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The central bank left its refinancing rate at 8 percent for
a sixth month June 15, saying borrowing costs are appropriate
“in the coming months” for trends in the economy, which grew
4.9 percent from a year earlier in the first quarter. President
 Vladimir Putin  needs a stronger labor market to sustain  consumer
spending  and balance shrinking sales in Russia’s biggest trading
partners, the European Union and  China .  “The current level of unemployment is already somewhat
below the potential level for the economy and there are certain
inflationary risks in this regard,” Vladimir Kolychev, head of
research at Societe Generale SA’s OAO Rosbank in Moscow, said by
phone. “There’s no reason for the central bank to become
particularly dovish for now.”  Stocks, Ruble  The 30-stock Micex Index was 1.2 percent lower at 1,372.76
in Moscow, bringing its 2012 decline to 2.1 percent. The ruble,
which has lost 1.2 percent against the dollar this year, was
down 0.3 percent at 32.53.  Retail sales  grew 6.8 percent from a year earlier in May,
the statistics service said. That’s quicker than April’s 6.4
percent advance, which was the slowest pace in nine months, and
more than the 6.1 percent median estimate of 15 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  Consumers have been bolstered by slower inflation as prices
grew at a record-low rate of 3.6 percent in May. Central bank
Chairman Sergey Ignatiev this month reiterated his forecast for
inflation to stay below this year’s 6 percent target, even as
delayed utility-tariff increases in July spur price growth.  Real  wages  grew 11.1 percent and real disposable incomes
rose 3.6 percent in May, compared with 9.6 percent and 2.7
percent median estimates in two Bloomberg polls.  Fixed-capital investment advanced 7.7 percent compared with
7.8 percent in April, beating the 6.9 percent median forecast in
a separate Bloomberg survey. The government reduced its
projection for economic growth this year to 3.4 percent from 3.7
percent, saying investment will be weaker than initially
estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  