-- Sacyr Chairman Says Will Be `Loyal' Repsol Shareholder
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-06-20T18:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/sacyr-chairman-says-will-be-loyal-repsol-shareholder.html
Sacyr Vallehermoso SA (SYV) , the Spanish
builder that owns a 10 percent stake in  Repsol SA (REP) , plans to
remain a “loyal” shareholder of the  oil company , Sacyr
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Manuel Manrique said.  Sacyr supports Repsol’s development plans and is
“optimistic” about its future, Manrique told reporters at his
company’s headquarters in Madrid today. Argentina seized control
of Repsol’s 51 percent stake in  YPF SA (YPFD) , that nation’s largest
oil producer, in April.  “We fully support Repsol’s strategic and future plans,”
Manrique said. “The  dividend  we are paid from the stake
continues to be good enough in order to meet debt requirements.
We plan to be loyal to Repsol while our priority is to improve
our balance sheet.”  Fitch Ratings on June 8 cut Madrid-based Repsol’s  credit
rating  and gave it a negative outlook because of “uncertainty”
about execution of the company’s strategic plan. Repsol cut its
dividend payout ratio last month and said it would increase oil
production outside of Argentina 7 percent a year.  Repsol bought 10 percent of its own shares from Sacyr last
year for about $3.35 billion, helping the construction company
repay about half of a syndicated loan. Sacyr is the largest
shareholder in Repsol after  CaixaBank (CABK) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sacyr will continue to sell assets, Manrique said.
Sacyr is also boosting its international sales as Spain’s
government carries out austerity measures to tackle the  budget
deficit .  Sacyr won a 35 million-euro ($44.5 million) contract for
work on Sao Paulo’s metro and contracts in Angola valued at
about 125 million euros, Manrique said. The company has been
paid about 300 million euros of debt owed by Spanish regions and
expects to receive payments for the remaining 70 million euros
this year, the executive said.  Sacyr fell 1 percent to close at 1.42 euros. The  shares 
have dropped 64 percent this year, the second-worst performer on
 Spain ’s benchmark IBEX 35 Index. Repsol has declined 46 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  