-- Samaras Names Banker to Greek Cabinet as Troika Prepares Return
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-06-21T15:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/samaras-to-name-new-greek-government-as-euro-area-ministers-meet.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
appointed Vassilios Rapanos, head of the country’s biggest bank,
to lead his finance team as the government prepares for talks
with international creditors on relief from austerity measures.  Rapanos, chairman of  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , was named
as finance minister today after Samaras, the head of the New
Democracy party, met with his coalition partners, socialist
Pasok chief  Evangelos Venizelos  and Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis. Demetris Avramopoulos, a former defense and tourism
minister and mayor of Athens, was named foreign minister.  “This government’s task is to tackle the crisis, open a
path to growth and review terms of the loan agreement, without
endangering the country’s European course or its place in the
euro,” according to a joint statement issued by the three
parties. “The goal is to create the conditions that will lead
the country out of the crisis, and from the need to depend on
loan accords in the future.”  The government, which includes 17 ministers and 21 deputy
ministers, will be sworn in later today, to be followed by the
first Cabinet meeting. Samaras was sworn in as prime minister
yesterday, the country’s fourth premier since November, after
 New Democracy  won a June 17 election with almost 30 percent.  Three Parties  Samaras joined forces with Pasok, which finished third, and
the sixth-place Democratic Left, and will control 179 seats in
the 300-member parliament, ending a period of political limbo
that began with an inconclusive May 6 election. The partners
have committed to keeping  Greece  in the euro and renegotiating
austerity measures like cuts in pensions that have driven the
country into a fifth year of recession.  European officials have held out the prospect of
flexibility over fiscal austerity for Greece after the country’s
election amounted to a referendum on remaining in the 17-nation
euro currency union. Greece has slipped behind budget-cutting
targets that euro-area nations and the  International Monetary
Fund  imposed in exchange for 240 billion euros ($303 billion) in
aid pledges in the past two years.  Greece will run out of money in mid-July, Syriza, the
biggest anti-bailout party, said on June 13 after being briefed
by caretaker Finance Minister Giorgios Zanias.  Repairing the damage will fall to Rapanos, who headed
 National Bank of Greece  since December 2009, was an adviser in
the Finance Ministry from 2000 to 2004 and deputy head of the
Greek delegation to the Organization of Economic Cooperation and
Development.  ‘Finance Problem’  “He should have what it takes,” said Platon Tinios, an
assistant professor at Piraeus University and adviser to former
socialist Prime Minister Costas Simitis. “He has a feel for the
numbers and he knows the public finance problem of Greece inside
out. As chairman of National Bank, he’s fully aware of how the
public finance problem feeds into liquidity and the problems
faced by banks.”  The  Finance Ministry ’s Zanias is representing Greece at
today’s meeting of euro-area finance ministers in  Luxembourg  as
the coalition partners thrash out the issues to be negotiated
with international creditors.  All three agree that Greece needs more time to implement
its fiscal adjustment program, said a Democratic Left official
involved in the talks and who asked not to be identified. Other
issues that will be put on the agenda include scrapping promises
to cut 150,000 jobs in the civil service; retracting a law
lowering the  minimum wage  by 22 percent; and ensuring there are
no further pension or wage cuts in 2013 and 2014.  Troika  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said the so-
called troika of inspectors from the European Union,  European
Central Bank  and International Monetary Fund, will return to
 Athens  in coming days following the formation of the government.  “We will continue to work with the Greek authorities to
bring Greece back to growth and  job creation ,” Barroso said
today in an e-mailed statement. “In the coming days the troika
will return to Athens to exchange views with the new government
and to begin to assess what has been done and what still needs
to be done in relation to the essential reforms set out in the
second economic adjustment program for Greece.”  European leaders have sent mixed messages about granting
Greece leeway after extending two separate rescue packages.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has said “there can be no
loosening on the reform steps.”  In a note congratulating Samaras today, Merkel said “great
hopes and expectations” are vested in the new government.
Samaras begins office in “difficult times,” she was cited as
saying in the e-mail distributed to news organizations.  Euro Declines  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 0.2 percent at 3:08 p.m. in
 London  while Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures slid 0.4
percent. The euro fell 0.7 percent to $1.2615. The  Athens Stock
Exchange Index (ASE)  rose 1.8 percent, its seventh day of gains.  Euro nations such as  Germany , the Netherlands and  Finland 
are increasingly skeptical about Greece’s ability to meet the
austerity conditions of the rescue, which have imposed a fiscal
straitjacket that has led to four governments -- including two
caretaker administrations -- since late 2009.  Greece narrowed its  budget deficit  from more than 15
percent of gross domestic product in 2009 to 9.1 percent in
2011. The country’s spending gap is due to fall to around 7
percent of GDP this year. Unemployment in Greece has reached a
record of more than 22 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net 
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 