-- Sanofi’s Blood-Clot Drug Doesn’t Show Benefit, Panel Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-06-20T16:56:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/sanofi-blood-clot-drug-shouldn-t-gain-approval-u-s-panel-says.html
Sanofi (SAN)  failed to win the backing of
advisers to U.S. regulators for its drug to prevent blood clots
in chemotherapy patients.  Sanofi’s semuloparin doesn’t provide enough of a benefit to
outweigh its risks, a  Food and Drug Administration  panel voted
14-1 today at a meeting in  Silver Spring ,  Maryland . The advisers
supported a June 18 FDA staff  report  that the Paris-based
company’s data didn’t “provide meaningful support for the
approval” as a treatment for venous thromboembolism among high-
risk patients receiving chemotherapy for certain cancers.  Semuloparin might bring in annual peak sales of 550 million
euros ($698 million) by 2018 if approved, said Eric Le Berrigaud, an analyst with Bryan Garnier & Co. in Paris, in an
interview before the FDA’s report was released. The treatment
may compete with the Sanofi’s Lovenox, he said. Lovenox, first
approved in 1993, helps prevent blood clots in patients
undergoing certain surgeries.  “Doctors may end up preferring cheaper Lovenox copies, now
available, rather than a new expensive product,” Le Berrigaud
said. “But it’s an important drug for Sanofi, nonetheless.
Because it’s one of its new medicines, it’s important for
sentiment.”  Sanofi fell less than 1 percent to 57.37 euros at the close
of Paris trading.  Drugmaker Disappointed  “Sanofi is disappointed with this outcome as there are
currently no anticoagulants approved for this specific
indication,” the company said in a statement.  The FDA isn’t required to follow the advisory panel’s
recommendation. Sanofi said in the statement it anticipates a
decision from the FDA in the second half of this year.  “We still have a lot of unanswered questions,”  Richard Pazdur , director of the FDA’s Office of Hematology and Oncology
Drug Products, told the panel at the meeting. “You also have to
define in labeling a patient population that is most likely
going to benefit from this drug. This has been really the crux
of the reason why we brought it to the committee.”  Sanofi also is awaiting FDA’s decision on whether to
approve its multiple sclerosis drug Aubagio. The FDA hasn’t
cleared a new drug from Sanofi since Jevtana on June 17, 2010,
for prostate cancer patients whose disease has spread.  Sanofi asked for approval of semuloparin to treat patients
with pancreatic or lung cancers or advanced or spreading solid
tumors.  Blood clots in patients on chemotherapy for cancer “has a
substantial impact on care,” Giancarlo Agnelli, a professor of
internal medicine at the University of Perugia,  Italy , wrote in
the New England Journal of Medicine in February with other
researchers. The complication can lead to hospitalization and
chemotherapy interruption.  Symptoms of blood clots or related deaths occurred in 20 of
1,608 patients taking semuloparin in the clinical trial compared
with 55 of 1,604 on placebo, according to the journal article.
The drug didn’t increase the risk of major bleeding events.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  