-- Schapiro Tells Congress Money Markets Still Prone to Runs
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-06-20T21:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/schapiro-tells-congress-money-markets-still-prone-to-runs.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  will tell a Senate panel
tomorrow that money-market mutual funds are vulnerable to runs
and must face rules to avoid taxpayer bailouts.  “Unless money-market fund regulation is reformed,
taxpayers and markets will continue to be at risk that a money-
market fund can transform a moderate financial shock into a
destabilizing run,” Schapiro said in testimony prepared for a
Senate Banking Committee hearing. “In such a scenario, policy
makers would again be left with two unacceptable choices: a
bailout or a crisis.”  Schapiro said lawmakers that money funds should be required
to float their net asset values or increase their capital
buffers. She also said that limits on redemptions could
“further enhance a money-market fund’s resiliency.”  The five commissioners at the SEC are divided on whether
and how to propose rules for money-market funds. The agency has
been subject to a lobbying campaign by the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce and other industry groups opposed to additional
regulation.  Concern over money funds, once seen as among the safest of
investments, grew after the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5
billion Reserve Primary Fund, triggering a broader run that
contributed to a freeze in global financial markets. The run
calmed after the Treasury Department temporarily guaranteed
money-fund shareholders against losses and the Fed began buying
fund assets at face value to help them meet redemptions.  SEC Response  The SEC responded in 2010 by introducing liquidity
minimums, average maturity limits and new disclosure
requirements. Speaking at an event today sponsored by the
Exchequer Club of  Washington , Commissioner Elisse Walter said
there is a “serious question” about whether those rules would
prevent future runs because they were mostly focused on
liquidity requirements.  Walter, a Democrat, said she disagreed with an industry
argument that the 2010 rules worked because no fund’s net asset
value fell below $1 last summer as Congress debated whether to
raise the U.S. debt ceiling.  “It was not the same type of event or magnitude of what
happened during the financial crisis and there really weren’t
credit issues that emerged,” she said.  Schapiro will repeat that point to the Senate panel. In her
prepared testimony, Schapiro said investors withdrew about $100
billion from prime money-market funds during a three-week period
that began June 14, 2011 compared to $300 billion in withdrawals
during a few days in 2008.  ‘Significant Differences’  “These are significant differences,” she said in the
prepared remarks. “If there had been real credit losses last
summer, the level of redemptions in some funds could very well
have forced a money-market fund or funds to break the buck,
leading to the type of destabilizing run experienced in 2008.”  Congressional Republicans  have criticized Schapiro’s focus
on regulation for money-market funds. House Financial Services
Committee Chairman  Spencer Bachus , an Alabama Republican, and
Representative  Jeb Hensarling , a Texas Republican, wrote a
letter to Schapiro in April questioning her focus on money-
market rules when the SEC hasn’t met most of the deadlines for
rules required by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  