-- MSCI Seen Overlooking Taiwan With U.A.E. Staying Frontier
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r ,   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-06-20T11:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/msci-seen-overlooking-taiwan-with-uae-staying-frontier-market.html
For the third straight year,  South
Korea , Taiwan, the  United Arab Emirates  and Qatar will all be
passed over by  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  for upgrades in market classifications,
according to  Citigroup Inc. (C)   South Korea and Taiwan haven’t addressed concerns such as
creating offshore  currency markets  that excluded the two
emerging markets from being given developed status last year,
HSBC Holdings Plc analysts led by Tom Zhou wrote in a June 18
report. Eight of the top 10 brokerages in the U.A.E., a frontier
market under review along with Qatar to be listed as developing
markets, said the nation would be bypassed. MSCI, whose gauges
are tracked by investors managing $7 trillion, is scheduled to
announce results of its latest review at 10 p.m. London time.  “The most likely scenario is that once again we don’t have
any change and no markets get moved,” Andrew Howell, a London-
based strategist for emerging and frontier markets at Citigroup,
said in a phone interview on June 18. “There is a perception
that for some of the main issues highlighted by MSCI preventing
them from being re-classified, not enough is happening to get
that process going.”  MSCI, a New York-based index provider, tracks economic
development, trading volumes and market accessibility to assess
market classifications. Upgrades could lead to the nation’s
equities luring more of the investor assets that track MSCI’s
gauges. Winning developed status would draw a net $8.3 billion
to South Korea and $5.2 billion to Taiwan, the  HSBC (5)  analysts
wrote in their report.  Frontier Markets  Deborah Yang, a Hong Kong-based executive director at MSCI,
didn’t immediately return a voice message left at her office
seeking comment on the decision.  South Korea, which is being reviewed by MSCI for a fourth
year, represents about 15 percent of the $6.87 trillion  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) , the second-largest weighting after
China, according to HSBC’s report. Brazil followed with 14
percent and Taiwan, under review for a third year, with 11
percent, the report showed. The developing nations’ index
advanced 3 percent this year to yesterday, while the  MSCI World
Index (MXWO)  of developed markets, which is worth $27 trillion, has
risen 3.8 percent. The $354.6 billion  MSCI Frontier Markets
Index (MXFM)  is down 4.8 percent in the period.  South Korea won developed status from  FTSE Group  in
September 2009. It’s the only country classified as developed by
FTSE while remaining an emerging market in MSCI indexes,
according to the companies’ websites.  MSCI knocked the nation and Taiwan back for upgrades  last
year , citing their non-existent offshore currency markets, among
other reasons. For South Korea, MSCI also cited “anti-
competitive” practices in relation to stock-market data and
mandatory foreign investor registration, which required a
“significant amount” of supporting documentation.  No Improvement  “We have not seen any major improvements in market
accessibility in either Korea or Taiwan,” the HSBC analysts
wrote. “We regard the upgrade of  Korea  or Taiwan to developed
market status as unlikely.”  Cho Byung In, a spokesman for Korea Exchange Inc., declined
to comment on the possibility of an upgrade. Two South Korean
finance ministry officials, who can’t be identified because they
aren’t authorized to speak on the topic, declined to comment.
Lee Chi-Hsien, director general for securities and futures at
Taiwan’s Financial Supervisory Commission, didn’t return three
calls to his office.  “We won’t be shocked if they kept us at the emerging-
market rating,” said Michael Lin, a Taiwan Stock Exchange
spokesman. “We haven’t changed much in our practice the last
year. The global financial situation hasn’t been very stable and
we are spending more time dealing with that.”  Investor Withdrawals  Winning a higher classification doesn’t guarantee overseas
fund inflows. Adjustments to stock holdings that followed
Israel’s upgrade to developed status from emerging in May 2010
prompted investors to withdraw a net $795 million from the
nation’s shares by the end of that year, compared with 2009
inflows of $1.7 billion, central bank data show.  Eight of the U.A.E.’s top 10 brokerages on the  Dubai
Financial Market  said the nation would remain as a frontier
market, while two said the elevation to an emerging status will
happen.  The relative openness of the U.A.E.’s stock markets may
mean the country could secure the upgrade while Qatar remains a
frontier market, said Kifah Maharmeh, managing director at Al
Dar Shares and Bonds, the ninth-biggest brokerage by trading
values on the DFM. “The U.A.E. markets comply with all required
rules and regulations, despite foreign ownership limits,”
Maharmeh said. “The liquidity is on the sidelines, we just need
a catalyst for it to come back in.”  DVP Model  EFG-Hermes Brokerage UAE LLC and Daman Securities predicted
Qatar would most likely fail to make the promotion. Both
countries are up for review for the fourth year.  MSCI said in December it would maintain the frontier status
for the two Persian Gulf countries, citing investors’ concern
over the effectiveness of the so-called delivery-versus-payment
model, a program for completing stock transactions, and Qatar’s
failure to announce plans to relax its foreign ownership laws.  Frontier markets typically have less-developed economies
and financial markets than  emerging markets , and have more
restrictions on foreign stock ownership. Equities in the U.A.E.
are valued at about $99 billion, while Qatar’s are worth about
$122 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Problems with the DVP and low trading volumes may mean the
U.A.E. will remain a frontier market, and Qatar “doesn’t stand
a chance” for an upgrade, according to Rami Sidani, the Dubai-
based head of  Middle East  and North Africa investments at
Schroder Investment Management Ltd.  Volume Plunge  “The DVP system they are trying to implement remains at
early stages and the market has been quite illiquid for the past
12 months, which will dampen any appetite for an upgrade,”
Sidani said in a June 18 e-mail.  Trading volumes among stock markets in South Korea, Taiwan
and the Persian Gulf are declining as investors trim holdings of
riskier assets amid Europe’s debt crisis. Average daily trading
volumes in South Korea and Taiwan were at least 20 percent lower
this month through yesterday than the average for the year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dubai’s volumes tumbled to an average 95 million shares in
the past month after reaching 835 million on March 5. Qatar caps
overseas ownership at 25 percent and the exchange’s acting
chairman, Hussein al-Abdullah, said in a December interview in
 Abu Dhabi  that he doesn’t expect the limits in companies to be
increased in 2012. Under U.A.E. law, foreign companies must have
U.A.E. nationals as their sponsors and are limited to a maximum
49 percent ownership of businesses, except in free zones.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  has advanced 9.1 percent this
year, while Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  rose 3.6 percent.
Dubai’s benchmark today fell 0.2 percent on bets the nation will
fail to secure the upgrade. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  is down 5.4 percent
in 2012. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  gained 3.6 percent so far
this year through yesterday, while Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  added
2.8 percent in the period.  Michael Prest, a spokesman for the Qatar Financial Centre,
declined to comment. Essam Abdul Hadi, a spokesman for the
U.A.E. Securities and Commodities Authority, and Rashed Al- Baloushi, the chief executive officer of the Abu Dhabi
Securities Exchange, did not answer two phone calls made to
their mobile phones.  “The vast majority of investors expect no change for the
U.A.E. and Qatar, so we expect very little market reaction if
both are refused entry again,” said  Julian Bruce , the Dubai-
based director of institutional sales trading at EFG-Hermes
Holding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  