-- Greece Faces Downgrade to Emerging-Market Status by MSCI
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-06-21T09:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/msci-seen-overlooking-taiwan-with-u-a-e-staying-frontier.html
Greece’s stock market  was put under
review for reclassification to  emerging markets  by  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) , a
change that would make the European Union nation the first
advanced country to be cut to developing status.  The MSCI Greece Index (MXGR) , which includes only two companies,
is “structurally no longer in line with Developed Markets size
requirements,” MSCI, whose stock indexes are tracked by
investors with about $7 trillion in assets,  said  in a statement
yesterday. The index provider said it may discontinue the
calculation of the MSCI Greece Index should the stock valuations
keep declining.  Greece completed the largest bond restructuring in history
in March after holders forgave more than 100 billion euros ($127
billion) of debt. The MSCI Greece Index has lost 93 percent over
the past five years as the economy contracted and politicians
struggled to keep it within the 17-nation euro-region. Companies
on the gauge trade at an average 8 times estimated earnings, a
34 percent  discount  to companies on the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO)   “The market has already made up its mind about Greek
equities,”  Michael Shaoul , the New York-based chairman of
Marketfield Asset Management, wrote in an e-mail yesterday.
“MSCI is simply bowing to the inevitable. In a sense they
really need a new category, blown-up developed markets.”  The weight of the MSCI Greece Index in the MSCI World Index
slid to 0.03 percent last month from 0.16 percent in May 2010.
MSCI said it would consider shifting Greece to Standalone Market
status should the country exit the euro and restrict investors
to its equity market.  The MSCI Greece Index fell 0.5 percent to 10.28 by 11:43
a.m. in Athens today, heading for its first decline in four days  Five-Year Recession  MSCI, a New York-based index provider, tracks economic
development, trading volumes and market accessibility to assess
market classifications.  The index provider upgraded Greece to developed-market
status in 2001. Downgrades could lead investors who follow
MSCI’s gauges to shun the nations’ equities.  A downgrade would be the first time that MSCI cuts a
developed market to the emerging-market category, according to
the company’s website.  Greece, mired in a fifth year of recession, has been
ordered by  Europe ’s governments to enact promised spending cuts
in return for 240 billion euros in rescue packages since 2010.
While its 2009  budget deficit  topped 15 percent, the European
Commission estimates it still faces a cumulative fiscal gap in
2013-2014 of 5.5 percent of GDP and has failed to meet targets
for tax collection, state asset-sales and public procurement.  Coca-Cola Hellenic  The New Democracy party is hammering out a three-way
government committed to staying in the euro after winning June
17 elections.  Among the two companies in the MSCI’s Greece index,  Coca-
Cola Hellenic Bottling Company SA (EEEK)  lost 29 percent in the last
four years, while  OPAP SA (OPAP) , a sports betting and lottery company,
declined 79 percent.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 15 percent during the
same period.  “Greece didn’t have the characteristics of other emerging
markets like Brazil, Russia, India, China,” said Michael Gayed,
chief investment strategist in  New York  at Pension Partners LLC,
which advises on over $150 million in assets.  MSCI also said its Morocco index has been added to the
review list for potential reclassification to frontier market.
It kept  South Korea  and  Taiwan  with emerging-market status and
the United Arab Emirates and Qatar as frontier markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  