-- Serbian Dinar’s Weakening May Spur Inflation, Institute Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-06-20T08:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/serbian-dinar-s-weakening-may-spur-inflation-institute-says.html
Serbia  needs a new government that
will enact tighter fiscal policies as the dinar’s depreciation,
which has helped smooth external imbalances, will spur
inflation, the FREN economic research institute said.  The dinar has weakened 9 percent against the euro this
year, prompting the National Bank of Serbia to spend 1.2 billion
euros ($1.5 billion) to slow its declines. Inconclusive May 6
elections have damped investor confidence and raised concern
that a prolonged delay in forming a new government will delay
bailout-loan talks.  “The imbalances between the high current-account deficit
and weak capital inflows have been smoothed so far through the
dinar depreciation and financed through dwindling foreign-
exchange reserves,” said Milojko Arsic, FREN’s chief analyst
and a member of the central bank’s supervisory board.  Serbia needs to form a government quickly to ease concern
over its fiscal outlook as the economy teeters on the brink of
recession, according to  Fitch Ratings . The country’s three-
member Fiscal Council, which monitors budget performance, warned
of a looming debt crisis on May 30 after the budget gap rose to
7 percent to 8 percent of gross domestic product and public debt
approached 50 percent of GDP.  Economic output contracted 1.3 percent in the first three
months of 2012. The fiscal gap was above 7 percent of GDP and
the current account deficit, a measure of money flowing into and
out of a country, reached 17 percent of GDP, or double the
 Finance Ministry ’s forecast for the year.  Serbia’s economy may stagnate this year at best if a new
government adopts a credible savings plan and restores a program
with the  International Monetary Fund , Arsic told reporters in
Belgrade. The inflation rate jumped to 3.9 percent in May from
2.7 percent in April.  The current-account deficit is making Serbia “vulnerable
in case of low capital inflows” and restoring an IMF loan
program, frozen in February after it became clear that Serbia
would slip on agreed debt and deficit targets, would help
convince investors to return to Serbia, he said, adding the
imbalances may spark an “internal crisis” if not corrected.  Fear from “rising inflation, debts and unemployment seems
to have engulfed the political elite” and they will be forced
to adopt austerity measures, said Kori Udovicki, a former
central bank governor and the founder of FREN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  