-- SodaStream Takes Marketing Tactic to Coca-Cola’s Hometown
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-06-20T21:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/sodastream-takes-marketing-tactic-to-coca-cola-s-hometown.html
SodaStream (SODA)  International Ltd.
already told  Coca-Cola (KO)  Co. it wouldn’t stop using Coke bottles
in its marketing. Now SodaStream is taking the fight to the
company’s front door -- or at least the park across the street
from Coke’s World of Coca-Cola museum in Atlanta.  On June 22, SodaStream, which sells do-it-yourself soft-
drink machines, plans to erect a car-sized cage at Centennial
Olympic Park, filled with thousands of used soft-drink bottles
and cans. The point: Buying packaged drinks clogs up landfills,
while making soda at home helps save the planet.  A similar display at a South Africa airport has drawn
threats of a lawsuit by Coca-Cola, the world’s largest beverage
maker with a market value of about $170 billion, 228 times
larger than SodaStream. The upstart uses 30 such displays around
the globe to take issue with the waste created by big soda
companies.  “No one’s going to shut us up with a lawyer’s letter,”
SodaStream Chief Executive Officer Daniel Birnbaum said today in
a telephone interview. “Not in  South Africa  or anywhere.”  After SodaStream, based in Airport City,  Israel , refused to
comply with a lawyer’s letter from Coca-Cola dated June 8, Coke
hand-delivered a second letter which Birnbaum got this week, he
said. Coke went after a display at O.R. Tambo International
Airport in Johannesburg and demanded all others be removed, as
well, according to the first letter. The company alleged
trademark infringement and a breach of local advertising
standards.  Reusable Bottles  SodaStream’s devices employ reusable bottles, rechargeable
CO2 cannisters and tap water, which Birnbaum says are more
environmentally friendly. Its products are sold in 42 countries.  “Coca-Cola is a leader in recycling and sustainable
packaging as demonstrated by our aggressive goal to collect the
equivalent of 50 percent of the bottles and cans we sell
globally by 2015,” the company said in a statement.  Kent
Landers , a spokesman, declined to comment further.  The bottle installations coincide with a stepped-up
marketing push. SodaStream will run its first global ad campaign
in 20 countries in the fourth quarter, at a cost of between $15
million and $20 million, said Yonah Lloyd, executive director of
corporate development. The company is also introducing its first
automatic electric carbonation appliance, the Revolution, which
went into production yesterday, Lloyd said today.  Wal-Mart Sales  SodaStream also will begin a carbon dioxide-exchange
program at  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  by early July after recently
introducing the devices there, Lloyd said. SodaStream’s products
are now in 2,900 Wal-Marts in the U.S.  The company jumped to a three-month high in  New York  after
Moness Crespi Hardt & Co. said SodaStream products are selling
out at Wal-Mart. The number of  Wal-Mart stores  in the U.S. that
are out of stock or have a limited number of the company’s soda
makers has grown every week since June 4, according to the e-
mailed Moness Crespi report dated today.  SodaStream surged 6.1 percent to $37.60 at the close in New
York.  A major focus for the company next year will be getting CO2
cannisters and flavor syrups into major grocery and drugstore
chains, Lloyd said.  “We expect to land some next year,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  