-- South Korea, Taiwan, U.A.E., Qatar Fail at MSCI Upgrade
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-06-21T10:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/south-korea-taiwan-uae-qatar-fail-to-secure-upgrades-at-msci.html
South Korea ,  Taiwan , the United Arab
Emirates and Qatar failed to secure an upgrade at  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) ,
whose stock indexes are tracked by investors with about $7
trillion in assets.  The New York-based index provider will keep South Korea and
Taiwan’s emerging-market status, and Qatar and the U.A.E.’s
frontier classification, it said in a statement yesterday. The
two Asian countries will be kept under review for potential
elevation to developed markets, while the Persian Gulf nations
will remain under review for possible reclassification to
 emerging markets , it said.  MSCI tracks economic development, trading volumes and
market accessibility to assess market classifications. Upgrades
could lead to the nations’ equities luring more of the investor
assets that follow MSCI’s gauges. Winning developed status could
draw a net $8.3 billion to South Korea and $5.2 billion to
Taiwan,  HSBC Holdings Plc (5)  analysts led by Tom Zhou wrote in a
June 18 report.  “Expectations were quite low, and we didn’t see much
positions built targeted for any potential change,” said Chung Yun Sik, the Seoul-based chief investment officer for equities
at ING Investment Management Korea Ltd., which oversees about
$16 billion. “Developments in Europe’s ongoing debt crisis will
have a bigger sway.”  South Korea, the U.A.E. and Qatar were under evaluation for
a fourth year for a possible upgrade, while Taiwan was reviewed
for a third year. South Korea’s $1 trillion stock market is the
largest of the four, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Equities in Taiwan are valued at $746 billion, compared with
Qatar’s $123 billion and the U.A.E.’s $100 billion.  Equity Settlement  Greece will be reviewed for possible reclassification to
emerging market from developed and Morocco to frontier from
emerging, MSCI said.  MSCI cited the absence of offshore  currency markets  for
bypassing South Korea and Taiwan for upgrades. For South Korea,
MSCI also cited limitations in equity settlement across multiple
accounts. The nation is already classified as a developed market
by  FTSE Group , a rival index compiler.  South Korea represents about 15 percent of the $6.8
trillion  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) , according to HSBC’s
report. Taiwan accounted for 11 percent, the report showed.
South Korea’s  Kospi (KOSPI)  index and Taiwan’s Taiex Index both fell 0.8
percent at the close today. MSCI’s gauge of developing nations
lost 1 percent at 11:44 a.m. in  London .  Remaining Issue  The index compiler’s decision won’t have a “big” impact
on markets given the “solid fundamentals” of the South Korean
economy and corporate earnings, Korea Exchange Inc. said in an
e-mailed statement today. Michael Lin, a spokesman for the
 Taiwan Stock Exchange , didn’t not return two calls to his
mobile.  MSCI said the only remaining issue preventing the
reclassification of Qatar to emerging markets is “very low”
foreign ownership limits. Michael Prest, a spokesman for the
Qatar Financial Centre, declined to comment.  Most companies in Qatar cap overseas ownership at 25
percent and the exchange’s acting chairman, Hussein al-Abdullah,
said in a December interview in  Abu Dhabi  that he doesn’t expect
the limits in companies to be increased in 2012. Under U.A.E.
law, foreign companies must have U.A.E. nationals as their
sponsors and are limited to a maximum 49 percent ownership of
businesses, except in free zones.  ‘Market Accessibility’  “The MSCI UAE Index meets all requirements besides
specific market accessibility issues related to custody and
clearing and settlement,” MSCI said in the statement.  Essam Abdul Hadi, a spokesman for the U.A.E. Securities and
Commodities Authority, didn’t answer a phone call made to his
mobile. Delivery-versus-payment, started in the U.A.E. last
year, is a securities industry procedure in which payment for a
security must be made when the security is delivered. It was
cited last year as a reason for not upgrading the market.  Trading volumes in stock markets in South Korea, Taiwan and
the  Persian Gulf (BGCC200)  are declining as investors trimmed holdings of
risky assets amid Europe’s deepening debt crisis. Average daily
volumes in South Korea and Taiwan were at least 20 percent lower
this month through June 19 than the average for the year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dubai’s volumes  tumbled
to an average 96 million shares in the past month after reaching
835 million on March 5.  Frontier Markets  “A lot of market participants are citing the existing
global challenges and the euro zone crisis as possible culprits,
however, MSCI has been clear in providing the needed changes to
facilitate the ascension process” for Qatar and the U.A.E.,
Salah Shamma, portfolio manager at  Franklin Templeton
Investments (BEN)  (ME) Ltd. said by e-mail. “MSCI EM inclusion for
either country would most certainly expand the existing investor
pool and create a dedicated investor base that is crucial to the
long-term development of the market.”  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  fell 0.4 percent today and has
advanced 8.6 percent so far this year, while Abu Dhabi’s  ADX
General Index (ADSMI)  has risen 4.4 percent and Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  dropped
6 percent. South Korea’s Kospi gained 3.5 percent so far this
year, while Taiwan’s Taiex added 2.9 percent.  Frontier markets typically have less-developed economies
and financial markets than emerging markets and have more
restrictions on foreign stock ownership.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  