-- MSR Resorts Say Hilton Dispute Holding Up Reorganization
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-06-20T12:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/msr-resorts-say-hilton-dispute-holding-up-reorganization.html
The four bankrupt resorts still
owned by Paulson & Co. and  Winthrop Realty Trust (FUR)  said the
dispute with Hilton Worldwide Inc. is the “single-greatest
driver” of reorganization value and a “gating issue to a
meaningful exit process.”  Translated into plain English, the resorts are saying they
can’t emerge from bankruptcy before the Hilton litigation is
resolved. The statements were contained in court papers filed
last week for an extension until Aug. 1 of the exclusive right
to proffer a Chapter 11 plan. A hearing on the so-called
exclusivity motion will take place June 27.  The resort owners were dealt a defeat in May when the
bankruptcy judge in Manhattan ruled that they can’t escape from
management agreements with Hilton on three properties without
giving rise to damages that would cut down on the owners’
recovery in Chapter 11. Beating Hilton down to nothing is
important because the resorts intend to pay creditors in full,
with money left over for Paulson and Winthrop. For details on
the ruling, click here for the May 14 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  The resorts said in the exclusivity motion that they are
negotiating more lucrative contracts with other hotel managers
if they can escape from the Hilton agreements at the right
price. The resorts reiterated their promise to pay all creditors
in full.  The schedule calls for trial to begin on June 27 where the
 bankruptcy court  will decide how much in damages Hilton is
entitled to be paid for termination of existing management
agreements. Both sides are to file their pre-trial briefs today.  The court-approved sale of the  Doral Golf Resort and Spa in
Miami  to  Donald Trump  has been completed, resulting in the
reduction of mortgage debt by at least $140 million, according
to the court filing.  The remaining resorts are the Grand Wailea Resort Hotel and
Spa in Hawaii; the La Quinta Resort and Club and the PGA West
golf course in La Quinta, California; the  Arizona  Biltmore
Resort and Spa in Phoenix; and the Claremont Resort & Spa in
Berkeley, California.  After foreclosing last year, Paulson and Winthrop put all
five resorts into bankruptcy in February 2011 to prevent
foreclosure of $1 billion in mortgages and $525 million in
maturing mezzanine debt.  The properties listed assets of $2.2 billion and
liabilities of $1.9 billion. An affiliate of  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
purchased the five resorts in 2007 for $4 billion. Revenue in
2010 was $465 million.  The case is In re MSR Resort Golf Course LLC, 11-10372,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Updates  Dynegy Parent Makes Arrangements for Its Own Chapter 11 Filing  Bankrupt subsidiaries of power producer Dynegy Inc. filed
papers this week to deal with the vagaries of when and whether
the parent company will file its own Chapter 11 petition and
join the subsidiaries in bankruptcy to carry out the global
settlement approved by the court early this month.  Bankrupt subsidiary Dynegy Holdings LLC filed another
iteration of the reorganization plan on June 18 along with
proposed procedures so the parent can scoot through Chapter 11
quickly, in the process diluting if not extinguishing the equity
currently held by shareholders.  The newest version of the plan includes further refinements
necessitated by the settlement where Dynegy Holdings will merge
into the parent, with the parent being the surviving entity.
Court papers say the parent “will file a petition with this
court for Chapter 11 relief,” although no decision has been
made yet by the board as to whether or when the filing will
occur.  The merger is tricky, because the settlement calls for the
Dynegy parent to have an approved claim against Dynegy Holdings
that must be paid in full. In the papers filed this week, Dynegy
wants the bankruptcy court to insure that the so-called
administrative claim won’t be extinguished by the merger.  The papers also deal with the issue of allowing creditors
of the Dynegy parent to vote on the plan. To solve the issue,
Dynegy wants the bankruptcy court to allow unsecured creditors
of the parent to cast provisional votes on the plan. Dynegy does
not believe the amount of the parent’s unsecured debt is
material.  Dynegy doesn’t plan for shareholders of the parent to vote
on the plan. They will be deemed to have voted against the plan.  The papers recite how there are shareholder suits
outstanding against the parent. Dynegy believes the suits have
no merit and therefore won’t harm creditors of the subsidiary in
terms of what they receive under the plan.  There will be a hearing in bankruptcy court on July 2 for
approval of disclosure materials, enabling creditors to vote on
the plan. At the hearing, the judge will set down the date for
the confirmation hearing to approve the plan.  There will be a separate hearing on July 9 for the
bankruptcy court to approve procedures enabling the merger.  Subsidiary Dynegy Holdings put itself into bankruptcy with
a plan previously negotiated with holders of some of the senior
debt. Other creditors objected. The judge appointed an examiner
who issued a report in March concluding that a restructuring
last year involved fraudulent transfers with actual intent to
hinder and delay creditors. The report was followed by the first
of two settlements. A second settlement, implemented on June 5
following court approval, resolved objections to the first
settlement.  For details on the second settlement, click here for the
June 1 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For details on the original
settlement, click here for the April 5 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  The plan gives $200 million cash and 99 percent of the
merged companies’ stock to holders of $4.2 billion of unsecured
claims against Dynegy Holdings.  The claims include about $3.5 billion on six issues of
notes, $110 million for a tax-indemnity claim, $540 million on
lease guaranty claims, and $55 million to holders of $222
million in subordinated debt.  The other 1 percent of the merged companies’ stock plus
warrants for 13.5 percent more will go to a trust for what the
papers vaguely refer to as “stakeholders” in the Dynegy
parent. The five-year warrants will have an exercise price based
on a $4 billion net equity value for the reorganized company.  The companies in Chapter 11 are Dynegy Holdings LLC, a
direct subsidiary of  Dynegy Inc. (DYN) , and four of Dynegy Holding’s
units. The Dynegy parent, not itself in bankruptcy, listed
assets of $11.1 billion and total liabilities of $8.6 billion on
the Sept. 30 balance sheet.  The $1.05 billion in 8.375 percent senior unsecured notes
of Dynegy Holdings LLC traded at 3:29 p.m. yesterday for 65
cents on the dollar, after trading most of the day around 62 or
63 cents, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  As a result of the examiner’s March 9 report, the Dynegy
stock lost almost 60 percent of its value in two days’ trading.
The stock closed yesterday at 58.27 cents, down less than 1 cent
in New York Stock Exchange trading.  Following the subsidiaries’ bankruptcy, the Dynegy parent’s
balance sheet for Dec. 31 had assets of $4.13 billion and
liabilities of $3.02 billion. Dynegy reported a net loss of
$1.65 billion in 2011 on revenue of $1.56 billion. The net loss
included a $1.66 billion “loss on deconsolidation.”  The Dynegy companies in bankruptcy listed assets of $7.56
billion and debt totaling $6.74 billion.  The Chapter 11 case is In re Dynegy Holdings LLC, 11-38111,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Poughkeepsie).  RG Steel Committee Opposes Quick Sale and Financing  RG Steel LLC  is intent on selling the business in a “fire
sale” that benefits no one other than the owners, who have
“questionable junior secured claims,” the newly appointed
creditors’ committee said in court papers.  The committee submitted the papers yesterday in advance of
a hearing tomorrow in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Delaware  where RG
will ask the bankruptcy judge to approve auction and sale
procedures for the three main plants in Sparrows Point,
Maryland; Warren,  Ohio ; and Wheeling, West Virginia. No buyer is
yet under contract. RG filed under Chapter 11 on May 31.  The committee is urging the judge to postpone approval of
sale procedures until July 10. The company said that a quick
sale is mandated by financing provided by first-lien lenders.  In response, the committee contends that the first-lien
lenders are fully secured. A quick sale, in the view of the
committee, would benefit the owners by allowing them to use
their junior liens to retain control while receiving broad
releases and liens on lawsuits.  The hearing tomorrow is also scheduled for final approval
of financing. The committee has seven members, including trade
suppliers, the United Steelworkers’ union and the Pension
Benefit Guaranty Corp.  RG is majority owned by Renco Group Inc. While there is no
committed buyer yet for the main plants, a purchaser has signed
a $15 million contract for the non-operating plant in
Steubenville, Ohio.  RG has the capacity to produce 8.2 million tons a year. It
is the fourth-largest flat-rolled steel producer in the U.S.
Renco acquired the business from U.S. subsidiaries of  OAO
Severstal (CHMF)  in March 2011.  Assets and debt both exceed $1 billion, according to the
petition. Liabilities include $440 million on a senior revolving
credit with Wells Fargo Capital Finance LLC as agent.  There is $218.7 million outstanding on a second-lien
revolving credit with Cerberus Finance LLC as agent. A Cerberus
affiliate is a minority shareholder. Parent Renco is owed $130.5
million on subordinated notes.  Severstal is owed $100 million on a note dating from the
acquisition. RG claims Severstal owes $82 million for a working
capital shortfall when the business was sold.  The case is In re WP Steel Venture LLC, 12-11661, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Vitro Appeals Decision Nixing Mexican Reorganization  Vitro SAB yesterday appealed last week’s ruling by the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in  Dallas  refusing to enforce the Mexican
glassmaker’s reorganization plan in the U.S.  The bankruptcy judge previously said he will allow a direct
appeal to the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New Orleans, avoiding an
intermediate appeal to a U.S. district judge.  Concern that Vitro’s reorganization plan would be enforced
in the U.S. was causing Mexican companies to pay higher  interest
rates  than companies in other Latin American countries. For a
Bloomberg story on the reaction of market observers to the Vitro
ruling, click here.  The bankruptcy judge refused to enforce the Vitro
reorganization in the U.S. because it reduced the debt of
subsidiaries on $1.2 billion in defaulted bonds even though they
weren’t in bankruptcy in any country. For a discussion of the
bankruptcy court’s June 13 opinion, click here for the June 14
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  After being rebuffed in courts in  Mexico , holders of
60 percent of the bonds scored their victory in the Vitro
parent’s  Chapter 15  case in Dallas. Chapter 15 isn’t a full-
blown reorganization like Chapter 11. It allows a foreign
company in bankruptcy abroad to enlist assistance from the U.S.
court to enforce rulings from the home country.  The suit in bankruptcy court to decide if the Mexican
reorganization will be enforced in the U.S. is  Vitro SAB de CV (VITROA) 
v. ACP Master Ltd. (In re Vitro SAB de CV), 12-03027, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas). The
bondholders’ appeal in the circuit court is Ad Hoc Group of
Vitro Noteholders v. Vitro SAB de CV (In re Vitro SAB de CV),
11-11239, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New
Orleans). The bondholders’ appeal of Chapter 15 recognition in
district court is Ad Hoc Group of Vitro Noteholders v. Vitro SAB
de CV (In re Vitro SAB de CV), 11-02888, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Dallas). The Chapter 11 cases for
U.S. subsidiaries is In re Vitro Asset Corp., 11-32600, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas). The
Chapter 15 case for the parent is Vitro SAB de CV, 11-33335, in
the same court.  Fortress, Berkshire Are Dual Stalking Horses for ResCap  Residential Capital LLC, the bankrupt mortgage-servicing
subsidiary of non-bankrupt  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , will have two
stalking horses at the upcoming auction for the two facets of
the business.  At a hearing yesterday,  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  was
tapped to make the first bid for the mortgage-servicing business
after raising the initial offer by $125 million and beating out
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   As a consolation prize, Berkshire will be the stalking
horse for the remaining portfolio of mortgages with a first bid
of $1.45 billion. For the Bloomberg story on yesterday’s hearing
and the selection of the stalking horses, click here.  Before Berkshire’s offer surfaced, ResCap had intended for
parent Ally to make the initial bid for the mortgage portfolio.
Earlier this week, the bankruptcy judge called for an examiner
to investigate claims ResCap has against Ally. For details on
the sales ResCap was proposing with Ally and Fortress when the
bankruptcy began, click here for the May 17 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  Berkshire said it owns about $900 million, or about
40 percent, of ResCap’s junior secured bonds. Before they were
sold this month, Berkshire owned about half of the unsecured
bonds.  The $473.4 million of senior unsecured notes due April 2013
last traded yesterday for 24 cents on the dollar, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The $2.1 billion in third-lien 9.625
percent secured notes due 2015 last traded yesterday for 95.75
cents on the dollar, according to Trace.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Northstar to Test Wynnchurch Offer at July 17 Auction  Northstar Aerospace (USA) Inc., a manufacturer of gears and
gearboxes for military helicopters, began a Chapter 11
reorganization on June 14 and filed papers this week to auction
the business on July 17.  Unless a better offer turns up, Northstar intends on
selling the operation for $70 million cash to private-equity
investor Wynnchurch Capital Ltd.  There will be a June 27 hearing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Delaware for approval of auction and sale procedures. If the
judge goes along, competing bids will be due July 13, in advance
of a July 17 auction and a hearing by July 24 to approve the
sale.  Northstar’s principal lender is  Fifth Third Bank (FITB) , owed
$39.5 million on a revolving credit and $18.9 million on a  term
loan . Fifth Third is providing the senior loan that will
increase to a maximum of $22 million at a final financing
hearing on July 3. There is a junior loan from  Boeing Co. (BA) 
scheduled for increase to $7 million at the final financing
hearing.  Northstar, with U.S. operations based in Bedford Park,
Illinois, makes components and assemblies for Chinook, Apache
and Blackhawk helicopters as well as the F-22 Raptor fighter.
The company has six facilities in the U.S. and  Canada . Revenue
in 2011 was $189.6 million. The two largest customers are the
U.S. military and Boeing.  Northstar said book assets are $165.1 million, with
liabilities totaling $147.5 million. Trade suppliers are owed
$21.7 million. The Canadian companies filed for reorganization
in Canada under the Companies’ Creditors Arrangement Act.  The case is In re Northstar Aerospace (USA) Inc., 12-11817,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  LandAmerica Trustee Negotiates $39 Million Settlement  Creditors of LandAmerica Financial Group Inc. are in for an
additional $39 million payday.  A trust, created under the liquidating Chapter 11 plan
implemented in late 2009, sued directors and officers in 2011,
alleging breaches of fiduciary duty. The district judge denied a
motion to dismiss the suit in March and sent the parties to
mediation.  The mediator brought the parties together on a settlement
where providers of directors’ and officers’ liability insurance
will pay $36 million. In addition, the insurance companies waive
their claims, freeing up an additional $3 million being held in
reserve in case the claims were held valid.  The bankruptcy court in Richmond arranged a hearing on July
9 for approval of the settlement.  In April the trust brought home a settlement with other
insurance companies, generating $37.9 million.  LandAmerica owned what had been the third-largest group of
title insurance companies in the U.S.  It filed for Chapter 11 protection in November 2008 and
confirmed a plan one year later. The plan created a trust
designed to bring lawsuits.  For details on the Chapter 11 plan, click here for the Nov.
20, 2009 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  After the Chapter 11 filing, LandAmerica sold the title
companies to Fidelity National in December 2008. The title
companies weren’t themselves in bankruptcy at the time of the
sales.  The petition listed $3.3 billion in assets against debt
totaling $2.9 billion, including assets and liabilities of the
insurance companies not in bankruptcy.  Glen Allen , Virginia-
based LandAmerica said its own liabilities exceeded $650 million
and included $100 million on a revolving credit plus $375
million in senior and convertible notes.  The case is LandAmerica Financial Group, 08-35994, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District Virginia (Richmond).  Daily Podcast  ResCap-Berkshire Hathaway, Vitro, New Rulings: Bankruptcy Audio  The offer that Berkshire Hathaway Inc. made for Residential
Capital LLC, along with related issues, is the first topic for
discussion on the bankruptcy podcast with Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia and Bloomberg News bankruptcy columnist Bill Rochelle.
The loss given last week to Mexican glassmaker Vitro SAB became
an even more stinging defeat when the bankruptcy judge at the
end of the week clarified his ruling and explicitly said that
the Vitro parent’s reorganization won’t be enforced in the U.S.
at all. The podcast wraps up with discussion of two new
bankruptcy opinions. One explains what false statements result
in non-dischargeable debts and the other lays out conditions
when a secured debt can ride through Chapter 11 unaffected. To
listen, click here.  Advance Sheets  Police Powers May Be Enforced by Private Companies  A telecommunications provider named Halo Wireless Inc.
filed in Chapter 11 to stop 20 proceedings commenced by local
telephone companies in 10 state public utilities commissions.
The effort failed as the result of a June 18 opinion from the
U.S. Court of Appeals in New Orleans construing a provision in
bankruptcy law that allows exercise of governmental police or
regulator powers even after bankruptcy.  Halo argued unsuccessfully in the bankruptcy court that the
automatic stay should stop the regulatory proceedings because
they were initiated by telephone companies, not by the
regulators themselves. The bankruptcy judge rejected the
argument, as did Circuit Judge Fortunato P. Benavides, writing
the 26-page opinion for the 5th Circuit in New Orleans.  The telephone companies argued that Halo was violating
local laws and regulations by the manner in which it conducted
business. Benavides ruled that regulators for all intents and
purposes were parties to the regulatory proceedings, even though
they were begun by private parties.  He said that if Halo were “permitted to stay all of the
PUC proceedings, it will have used its bankruptcy filing to
avoid the potential consequences of a business model it freely
chose and pursued.”  The circuit court upheld the ruling by the bankruptcy judge
who allowed the regulatory proceedings to go forward. The
appeals court also upheld the lower court which prevented the
regulatory proceedings from determining the amount of any claim
that the telephone companies would have against the bankrupt
company.  The appeal was taken directly to the Court of Appeals
without an intermediate appeal in the district court.  The case is Halo Wireless Inc. v. Alenco Communications
Inc. (In re Halo Wireless Inc.), 12-40122, U.S. 5th Circuit
Court of Appeals (New Orleans).  Pre-Bankruptcy Claim No Disqualification for Lawyer  A  law firm  owed $128,000 isn’t disqualified from
representing a company in Chapter 11 if the firm agrees the pre-
bankruptcy claim will be paid only after unsecured creditors are
paid in full.  The case involved a shuttered hospital where the law firm
was owed $128,000 for pre-bankruptcy services. The U.S. Trustee
opposed approval of the firm’s retention when the proposal
entailed paying the pre-bankruptcy claim from the owner’s
recovery after all creditors are paid in full.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Jeff Bohm in Houston approved the
engagement this week in a 24-page opinion.  Bohm said he agreed with a decision from September 2010 by
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge D. Michael Lynn in Fort Worth, Texas,
ruling that the existence of a pre-bankruptcy claim isn’t an
automatic disqualification from representing a bankrupt in
Chapter 11. For a discussion of Lynn’s decision in the Talsma
case, click here for the Sept. 21, 2010, Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  To decide whether the claim is a disqualification, Bohm
used a “totality of the circumstances approach.” He concluded
that 11 of 14 factors favored allowing the engagement and
payment arrangement.  The case is SBMC Healthcare LLC, 12-33299, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  