-- Starbucks To Open Tazo Tea Store
-- B y   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g
-- 2012-06-20T21:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/starbucks-to-open-tazo-tea-store.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s largest
coffee-shop operator, will open its first tea-only store in
October under the Tazo brand.  The shop will sell more than 80 varieties of loose-leaf
tea, which will be priced by the ounce, said Holly Hart, a
spokeswoman for Seattle-based Starbucks. While there are no
immediate plans to open more stores, the company may consider
additional Tazo shops “if we see another opportunity where a
location is the right fit,” Hart said.  Starbucks is expanding its offerings beyond coffee to win
new customers and help accelerate sales growth. The company this
month acquired Bay Bread LLC for $100 million in cash, its
biggest purchase, to offer better quality food, and earlier this
year opened a store selling flash-pasteurized juice.  “We see Tazo as fitting into our emerging brands
portfolio,” which also includes the company’s  Seattle ’s Best
Coffee and Evolution Fresh brands, Hart said in an interview.
“We see it as a huge potential and a multi-channel
opportunity.”  While the 1,700-square-foot store will still sell
traditional behind-the-counter drinks such as iced tea and tea
lattes, its blending station will be its differentiating factor,
Hart said. Customers, with the help of employees, will be able
to create personalized tea blends at the station that they can
either take home or brew in the store.  “This store is really a tea playground with a more
interactive and engaging community,” Hart said.  Baked Goods  The Tazo store, which will be located near the company’s
headquarters in Seattle’s University Village, will also sell
pastries, baked goods and packaged chocolates.  Starbucks, which has more than 17,000 locations worldwide,
 bought  Tazo in 1999 for $8.1 million in cash, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Tazo is now a “$1.4 billion brand” and this store is one
of the ways that Starbucks is beginning to push into the $95
billion global tea market, Hart said.  “We’ve recognized the unique opportunities we have with
Tazo in multiple channels of distribution as part of our health
and wellness initiative,” Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz  said during a conference call in April.  Starbucks  revenue  rose 6.3 percent to $8.04 billion in the
U.S. in the year ended Oct. 2. The company’s domestic segment
made up 69 percent of sales last year.  Since returning as CEO in 2008, Schultz has introduced Via
instant coffee and wrested control of packaged goods
distribution from  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  The company has also recently
tried to boost sales by attracting afternoon customers with wrap
and noodle boxes and a smaller-portion desserts line.  The shares  rose  0.9 percent to $55.64 at the close in New
York. Starbucks has gained 21 percent this year.  The  Associated Press  reported earlier on the Tazo tea shop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Blessing in  New York  at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  