-- Stockton Slide to Bankruptcy Measured in More Funerals
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-06-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/stockton-slide-to-bankruptcy-measured-in-more-funerals.html
Salvador Cervantes was about to set
up a booth with other vendors at the Stockton Flea Market where
he sells jewelry when two gunmen demanded his car keys. One
fired a shot, Salvador said, and he dropped the keys. The men
sped off in his SUV, leaving his 74-year-old father, Ignacio,
bleeding to death on the ground from a gunshot wound. He was
number 25.  The killing was one of 29 homicides in Stockton,
 California , so far this year, following a record 58 in 2011, as
the city’s slide toward insolvency cut police strength. It was
the fifth robbery at gunpoint in three and a half years for
Salvador Cervantes.  “The first time that it happened, I wanted to just move
out of here,” Cervantes, 42, said as he recounted the holdup
outside his mother’s house, where a framed photo of his father
in a brown cowboy hat is the center of a small shrine. “At this
point, I’m used to it. It’s a fact of life.”  Stockton, with about 292,000 people, is poised to become
the largest city in U.S. history to seek  bankruptcy protection .
Three months of talks between the city and creditors draw to a
close June 25. If the talks don’t yield concessions, the city
faces a $26 million deficit for the fiscal year beginning July 1
because of declining tax revenue, escalating retiree health-care
costs and accounting errors.  As the city cut services and staff to stay afloat, the
police force shrank 26 percent in four years. Murders more than
doubled, from 24 in 2008. In the decade that ended last year,
robberies were up 28 percent and burglaries rose 44 percent.  Rising Crime  “As we’ve had a reduction of officers in our community and
couldn’t be as proactive as before, we’ve noticed violent crime,
such as homicides, has gone up,” said Joe Silva, a police
spokesman.  Life in Stockton, about 80 miles (130 kilometers) east of
 San Francisco , means the police no longer respond to non-injury
traffic accidents or send officers to keep the peace in civil
disputes.  The funeral for Ignacio Cervantes was arranged by  Cano
Funeral Home . Services have increased to at least one a day this
year from about four a week in 2004, said Pablo Cano, who has
owned the Stockton mortuary for almost 15 years.  “We’re seeing a lot more crime, definitely,” Cano, 70,
said in an interview. “The shortage in the police is leaving
everything wide open to where people feel they can get away with
anything.”  Cano has seven employees and said he’s looking to hire more
to keep up with the funerals.  ‘Very Hard’  “It’s very hard on my staff because they try to get a few
hours of sleep,” Cano said. “Right now, it’s hard to take a
break.”  Stockton’s  unemployment  rate was 15.4 percent in April,
almost twice the national average of 8.1 percent that month,
according to U.S. Labor Department data. One in every 195 homes
in the Stockton metropolitan area received a  foreclosure  filing
in May, the fifth-highest rate in the country, according to
RealtyTrac Inc., an  Irvine , California-based provider of default
data.  “People are struggling to find any kind of work,” Mayor
Ann Johnston said in an interview in her City Hall office.
“They’re struggling to keep their homes. And then they’re
having to deal with an escalating crime rate in our community
where they question their own safety.”  Meanwhile, budget cuts have forced the elimination of the
narcotics, park patrol and downtown bicycling units, Police
Chief Eric Jones, 40, said in an interview. Most of the
homicides last year were gun- and gang-related, Jones said.  ‘Emboldened’ Criminals  “There seems to be an emboldened criminal element out
there that feel very comfortable carrying and using firearms,”
said Jones, who has worked for the department since 1993 and
became chief in March. “We’ve seen some very brazen activity.”  Stockton is the county seat, and the mayor says the San
Joaquin County Jail is full.  “Every day, people who should be spending time in the
county jail are released back into the community, waiting for a
trial date or something,” Johnston said. “That adds to the
criminal element on the street at any one time.”  Barbara Booth’s son, Ryan, a 20-year-old aspiring rapper
who called himself Rolo Da Prince, was homicide No. 6 this year.
He was shot Feb. 10 as he left a market where he’d bought orange
juice and died the next day, she said.  “Stockton is no good for nobody, especially men,” said
Booth, 60, in an interview. “These young folks don’t have jobs.
All they know how to do is just go out there, be with each other
and do whatever. It’s bad.”  Tattooed Memorial  Her older son, Sonny, 31, was shot in the back in 2007 and
survived. The words “RIP Rolo Da Prince” are tattooed across
his cheeks and an image of his brother’s face is inked on his
right shoulder.  “I want to get out of here because if I don’t, he’s going
to get killed next,” Barbara Booth said of Sonny.  In a city office, Ruben Sepulveda, 60, watches six screens
on the wall in front of him for signs of criminal activity.  About 200 video cameras are perched across Stockton. A
monitoring program, which closed for lack of funding, is being
reinstated, employing 15 retired police officers. The cameras
can monitor drug and criminal activity, help officers determine
the response needed and record evidence, including a car fleeing
the scene of a crime.  TV Tools  “This is a great tool,” Sepulveda, a detective who
retired in 2002 after 30 years, said in an interview. “But we
need the numbers.”  He referred to the number of police on the street, such as
Sergeant Kathryn Nance, who is on the newly formed community
response team.  Nance also serves on the board of the police union and
attended talks between creditors and city officials before
joining her team June 14 to check a report that a parolee had
brandished a shotgun at a neighbor.  The city has asked “to cut pay to a point that it’s kind
of beyond repair and beyond people’s ability to live,” said
Nance, a 37-year-old mother of four. Her salary has been reduced
about 23 percent since 2010, she said. That makes it hard to
draw experienced officers, she said.  “The compensation package is lower than a lot of other
agencies, and then you add the negative publicity of the
bankruptcy and the issues that we’re having, and we don’t get
people of that caliber applying anymore,” Nance said.  Early on May 4, Kari Webb said she was dropping off her
husband at the truck he drove when they spotted two men
siphoning fuel from the vehicle to another drawn up alongside.  Thieves Confronted  Her husband, Alex Bell, 38, confronted one of the men and a
fight began, she said. Bell climbed onto the passenger side of
the truck, which the second man began driving off. As the truck
picked up speed, Bell fell and was run over. He was No. 23.  “We had planned this year to move to Linden before my
oldest son starts high school because of the homicides this
year,” Webb, 36, said in an interview as her two sons watched
television behind her. The silver cross she wears on a chain
around her neck contains some of Bell’s ashes, she said.  “It’s scary,” said Webb, tears welling in her eyes. “We
wanted to move, and Stockton took his life.”  The City Council has agreed to give City Manager Bob Deis
the power to pursue a bankruptcy filing if the talks with
creditors aren’t fruitful.  “We’re hopeful that it will come to a resolution,” the
mayor said. “If it does not, we frankly don’t have a choice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in  New York  at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 