-- Ambani Benefits as Subsidies Drive Diesel Sales to Record
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-06-21T11:04:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/subsidies-boost-ambani-with-record-diesel-sales-corporate-india.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , the
operator of the world’s biggest refining complex, is benefiting
from a record demand for diesel as consumers in India opt for
the subsidized fuel to run vehicles and generators.  State-owned  oil companies , unable to meet the surge in
domestic requirements, are turning to Reliance,  Essar Oil Ltd. (ESOIL) 
and Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. to bridge the
shortfall.  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL) , the nation’s biggest refiner, said
its diesel purchases from private companies surged 50 percent in
the past two months. Demand for the fuel in India increased 7.8
percent in the year ended March 31, surpassing growth in
gasoline sales for the first time in seven years.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government caps diesel
prices to shield farmers and truckers, a significant voting bloc,
spurring artificial demand for the fuel that costs 41 percent
less than gasoline in the capital New Delhi. The shift in
customer preference is helping Essar and billionaire  Mukesh
Ambani ’s Reliance bolster local sales and counter an export
slowdown caused by the debt crisis in  Europe .  “Demand for diesel has been abnormally high and the
situation is escalating,” said R.K. Singh, chairman of Bharat
Petroleum Corp., India’s second-biggest state refiner that also
purchases the fuel from Reliance and Essar. “As this situation
continues, we will have to buy more from the private refiners
and maybe also increase imports.”  ‘Rationalizing’  Reliance exports 59 percent of its output, while Essar’s
overseas shipments account for 34 percent of sales. They sell to
state refiners at market rates.  Cheaper diesel is prompting automakers to raise capacity of
vehicles using the fuel.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the nation’s
biggest manufacturer of cars, said in April that it’s setting up
a new plant to produce 300,000  diesel engines  a year. Maruti’s
sales of diesel vehicles jumped 37 percent in the three months
ended March 31, while demand for gasoline-powered cars declined
by 14 percent.  The local unit of  Japan ’s Toyota Motor Corp. said yesterday
that it has “rationalized” gasoline-car production. A deficit
in electricity generation in the South Asian country is also
stoking demand for diesel used in generators.  Reliance shares have declined 15 percent in the past year
as the company’s  net income  in the March quarter plunged the
most in more than three years. A slowdown in  China  and Europe
cut fuel demand, adding to the drag on Reliance’s earnings from
lower production at  India ’s biggest natural gas deposit.  Countering Negatives  “Sales in India help Reliance and Essar offset most of the
negatives from a slowing Europe,” said  Niraj Mansingka , a
Mumbai-based analyst at Edelweiss Capital Ltd. “Sales in India
helps them save around $3 to $4 per barrel on the products sold
due to import duty differential between diesel and crude of 2.5%
and savings on transportation and handling costs.”  Mansingka is among 28 analysts who rate Reliance’s stock a
buy, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Seventeen
recommend holding it, while seven rate it a sell. The shares
fell 2.5 percent to 718.70 rupees at the close in Mumbai. The
benchmark Sensitive Index rose 0.8 percent.  Reliance spokesman Tushar Pania, Essar Oil’s spokesman
Rabin Ghosh and Indian Oil Chairman R.S. Butola declined to
comment on diesel.  “In terms of the overall trend in the total domestic
market, demand growth continues to be strong, partly as a result
of the domestic subsidy program,” Reliance said in its  annual
report  for the year ended March 31.  Prime Minister Singh has refrained from raising diesel
prices for a year to rein in  inflation , a politically sensitive
issue in a nation where 30 percent of the population lives below
the poverty line, set at 50 cents a day. Central bank Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao has termed inflation, which has stayed above
his comfort level for more than a year, as a “regressive tax”
that “hurts the poor the most.”  Street Protests  A decision to increase gasoline prices last month triggered
street protests. The price difference between the two fuels
increased to a record in May.  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  plans to cap subsidies to
narrow the  budget deficit , with his Chief Economic Adviser
 Kaushik Basu  calling for a revision in prices. The government
gave $15 billion in handouts to state-run refiners for selling
diesel, kerosene and cooking gas below cost in the 12 months
through March.  Shutdowns of some refineries have also worsened the diesel
shortfall for state refiners. Indian Oil partly closed its
refinery at Koyali in Gujarat state in the second half of April,
according to two company officials. Numaligarh Refinery Ltd., a
unit of  Bharat Petroleum , halted parts of its eastern Indian
plant on April 7 after a fire and closed its entire facility in
mid-April for about a month.  ‘Full Capacity’  “We are producing diesel at full capacity,” K. Murali,
director of refinery operations at Hindustan Petroleum Corp.,
the third-biggest state refiner, said June 20. “Diesel
purchases have also increased because of some shutdowns in the
recent past.”  The fuel price controls have forced Reliance and Essar to
cut down retail sales in India and export most of their fuel.
Essar Oil is seeking additional markets after it increased
capacity at its refinery in Gujarat state by 29 percent to 18
million metric tons a year in March and expanded it to 20
million tons this month.  Essar Oil shares have slumped 51 percent in the past year.
They gained 5.3 percent to 56.75 rupees in Mumbai today. Seven
of the 13 analysts who track the stock rate it a buy.  Demand for diesel may increase 5.9 percent to 68.6 million
tons in the year that started April 1, according to oil ministry
 data . Gasoline demand is projected to climb 5.8 percent to 15.9
million tons.  “If I have to buy a car for myself now, I’d definitely buy
a diesel one because the running cost for that is so much
cheaper,” Hindustan Petroleum’s Murali said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  