-- Sugar Program Making Cookies Costlier Proving Hard to Kill
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-06-20T20:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/sugar-program-making-cookies-costlier-proving-hard-to-kill-2-.html
U.S. sugar policy, a source of
conflict that predates the American Revolution, is drawing fire
for raising consumer prices as lobbyists and lawmakers rally to
defend a system that restricts the sweetener’s supply.  A program that limits imports and props up prices for less
than 5,000 growers survived a challenge today from Pennsylvania
Republican Senator  Pat Toomey  during the  farm-bill  debate.
Supporters from cane- and beet-producing states last week
defeated New Hampshire Democrat Jeanne Shaheen’s effort to phase
out sugar support altogether by a 50-46 margin.  The near-successful assault against the decades-old policy
shows even well-entrenched farm programs are vulnerable to
lawmakers concerned about the economy and budget this year, said
Tom Earley, a sugar analyst with food research firm Agralytica,
formerly Promar International, in Alexandria, Virginia.  “This is one of the most intrusive, anti-market policies
that we have,” Earley said. “If our producers are as efficient
as they claim, we do not need this program.”  Sugar, grown in about 120 countries, is used in everything
from  HJ Heinz Co. (HNZ)  ketchup to  Kraft Foods Co. (KFT)  snack cakes, and
has generated political controversy for centuries.  Colonial Conflict  The British Sugar Act of 1764 restricted trade in Colonial
America, fanning the flames of rebellion. Since 1934, the U.S.
government has regularly raised the sweetener’s price by
controlling its supply. The approach, once commonly used for
crops from wheat to tobacco, has been discarded for most
commodities as producers rely more on exports to feed profits.  Not so with sugar. About  three-quarters  of all U.S.
consumption is grown domestically, and the country isn’t a major
exporter. Cane-growing  Brazil  is responsible for about two-
fifths of global shipments, followed by the beet-growing
European Union, and Australia and  Thailand . U.S. import access
is controlled by a quota system in which purchases beyond a
level based on trading patterns from 1975 to 1981 are heavily
taxed.  Each of the four major sugar exporters has its own tariffs,
along with other subsidies, as global trade in the sweetener
remains highly regulated. “The sugar market is the most grossly
distorted market in the world,” making protections necessary
for U.S. farmers, said Philip Hayes, spokesman for the
Arlington, Virginia-based American Sugar Alliance, a collection
of grower groups in 16 states.  The tight relationship between sugar and the U.S.
government has made sweetener the most lobbied food crop in
Washington.  Big Spenders  The U.S. Sugar Beet Association was the biggest farm-lobby
spender in 2011, with $1.8 million in contributions, and five of
the  top 10  lobbyists were sugar companies or trade groups.
Moorhead, Minnesota-based American Crystal Sugar Co. is the
biggest agribusiness campaign contributor this election cycle,
giving  $1.4 million , more than four times as much as  Monsanto
Co. (MON) , according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  Because import restrictions limit competition, U.S. prices
tend to be higher than the world market, which snack-food and
beverage companies say hurts their profits and costs jobs. World
futures prices were 44 percent higher than domestic over the
past three years through June 18, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Eliminating the program would lower raw U.S. sugar prices
as much as 34 percent and save consumers up to $3.5 billion
annually, about $9 to $11 a person, according to an Iowa State
University  study  last year.  ‘Hidden Tax’  “This is a hidden tax on every consumer,” said Jennifer
Cummings, spokeswoman for the  Coalition for Sugar Reform , a
Washington-based organization that includes the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, the  National Association of Manufacturers  and trade
groups from the food and beverage industry. “We’re up against
entrenched interests on this issue, but we think when we outline
the cost to consumers and jobs, that’s a compelling argument.”  Senator Shaheen last week called sugar-supply management an
“outdated program” that “puts American companies at a
competitive disadvantage.” Her amendment would have eliminated
the entire program, including import quotas. Toomey’s measure,
which he called “modest” in today’s floor debate, lost with 53
votes in opposition. It would have kept the quota system while
making it easier for countries to shift their allocations within
it.  It also would have ended other aid for producers, such as a
2008 requirement that the government buy excess sugar to make
into ethanol. Toomey said the amendment would have saved
taxpayers money and protected jobs.  Bipartisan Opposition  Both the Toomey and Shaheen efforts were defeated by a
bipartisan coalition of lawmakers centered in cane and beet
states including Republican Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida , a
potential vice-presidential candidate, and Senate Budget
Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a Democrat from  North Dakota .  “I strongly urge a ‘no’ vote,” said Senate Agriculture
Committee Chairwoman  Debbie Stabenow , a Michigan Democrat, on
the Senate floor in response to Toomey. Changing sugar policy
would actually cost U.S. jobs, she said, as cheap sweetener
would harm the domestic industry, she said. “If we’re importing
cheap sugar at a point where we undermine American jobs, what
have we gained?” she asked.  Passage Expected  The Senate may pass the farm bill late today or tomorrow,
after disposing of dozens of proposed amendments, Agriculture
Committee Chairwoman Debbie Stabenow, a Michigan Democrat, said
today in a conference call with reporters. The House Agriculture
Committee will then draft its version of the bill for that
chamber’s consideration, she said.  In the House panel, the fight to protect sugar is led by
ranking Democrat  Collin Peterson  of  Minnesota , whose district
includes the headquarters of American Crystal, his second-
biggest campaign donor during more than two decades in Congress.
Peterson has said the current sugar program will not change in
the House bill.  The depth of support in the Senate may embolden House
challenges, said Gary Blumenthal, president of World
Perspectives Inc., an agricultural researcher in  Washington .
“It’s not like in the past, when sugar had all the votes lined
up. The sugar groups have to be working extra hard right now.”  Sugar-program supporters have one card they’ve played
effectively in the past, Blumenthal said. Because a supply-
management approach raises farmer income without spending
government money, it’s not considered a budgetary expense.  Lawmakers are planning to cut subsidies for corn, cotton
and other crops to reduce the deficit. The sugar program,
meanwhile, is estimated to cost the government nothing between
now and 2022, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .
Current policies are attractive because they come at no net cost
to the taxpayer, said Hayes from the Sugar Alliance.  “If you look at why Congress is reforming policy, it’s to
save money. That’s the whole reason,” he said. Besides, he
added, “does anyone really believe that the large candy
companies are going to pass on savings with cheaper candy
bars?”  The bill is S. 3240.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  