-- Sweden, Central Bank Have Room to Help Economy Grow, NIER Says
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-06-20T11:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/sweden-central-bank-have-room-to-help-economy-grow-nier-says.html
Sweden ’s government and its central
bank have room to do more to stimulate the slowing Nordic
 economy , the National Institute of  Economic Research  said.  “There is plenty of space if they want to conduct a more
active fiscal policy” since Sweden’s “financial standing is so
strong that it wouldn’t lead to any big problems,” Jesper Hansson, director of forecasting at NIER, said today at a press
conference in Stockholm. “The Riksbank could lower the  interest
rate  more since inflation is low.”  Economic growth in Sweden will slow to 0.7 percent this
year from 3.9 percent in 2011 and  consumer prices  will rise 1.2
percent this year and 1.4 percent in 2013, which is below the
central bank’s 2 percent target, NIER forecast today.  Sweden, which  exports  about half of its output, is
suffering from weakening demand as the euro area economy shrinks
amid austerity measures.  Europe  buys about 70 percent of Swedish
exports.  The government should say that it’s “prepared to mainly
give more state aid to local governments so that municipalities
don’t already now start to plan for spending cuts” in case
“things get much worse in Europe,” Hansson said.  Swedish unemployment unexpectedly rose to 8.1 percent last
month, while a survey published today by NIER showed  consumer
confidence  fell more than estimated this month. Unemployment
will hold at an average 7.5 percent this year and rise to 7.6
percent in 2013, NIER predicted today.  Unemployment Upturn  “Companies will keep their staff and there will be a
limited upturn in unemployment,” Hansson said. “Sweden is
well-equipped to meet this weak development.”  A Riksbank survey found Swedish manufacturing companies are
preparing to cut jobs amid waning export demand. Swedish
manufacturing contracted in May for the first time this year, a
survey by Swedbank AB indicated, and industrial production
slumped for a third month in April.  “Weak resource utilization both in Sweden and abroad will
keep a lid on salary increases and the development of raw
material prices,” Hansson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  