-- Swiss Stocks Decline Before Federal Reserve’s Decision
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-06-20T15:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/swiss-stocks-decline-before-federal-reserve-s-decision.html
Swiss stocks  declined, snapping
three days of gains, as a gauge of investor confidence dropped
to the lowest level in five months.  Nestle SA slid 1 percent, making the biggest contribution
to the  Swiss Market Index (SMI) ’s retreat.  Swisscom AG (SCMN)  also decreased
1 percent.  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN)  jumped 6.1 percent after the
shares were upgraded at UBS AG.  The SMI fell 0.3 percent to 6,017.91 at the close in
Zurich. The gauge surged 1.6 percent yesterday amid speculation
that Greece’s political parties would form a coalition
government with a workable majority. The broader Swiss
Performance Index decreased 0.1 percent today.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 29 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Swiss investor confidence  fell to the lowest level in five
months in June, indicating the economy will deteriorate. A
measure of investor and analyst expectations that aims to
predict economic developments six months in advance plunged to
minus 43.4 in June, the ZEW Center for European Economic
Research in Mannheim, Germany, and Zurich-based  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  said in a statement. That was the lowest since January.  FOMC Meeting  In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  will expand Operation
Twist beyond $400 billion to spur growth and buy protection
against a worsening sovereign-debt crisis in Europe, according
to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Fifty-eight percent of respondents in a June 18 poll said
the Fed will prolong the program, which seeks to lower borrowing
costs by extending the average maturity of the securities in the
central bank’s portfolio. The current plan ends this month.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  ends its two-day meeting
today with a statement scheduled for release at 12:30 p.m. in
Washington. Sixty percent of the economists surveyed said the
Fed probably won’t start a third round of large-scale bond
purchases, also known as quantitative easing.  Greece’s political parties struck an agreement to form a
coalition government.  New Democracy , which won the June 17
election with almost 30 percent of the vote, Pasok and the
Democratic Left will hold a combined 179 seats in the 300-member
parliament. New Democracy’s leader, Antonis Samaras, was sworn
in as the prime minister.  Nestle (NESN) , the maker of Nespresso coffee and KitKats, fell 1
percent to 55.40 Swiss francs. Morgan Stanley removed the stock
from the list of its best ideas.  Swisscom, Switzerland’s biggest phone company, declined 1
percent to 372.10 francs.  Julius Baer Group Ltd (BAER) , the Swiss wealth manager established
in 1890, dropped 0.9 percent to 32.93 francs.  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s largest supplier of temporary
workers, rose 2.2 percent to 40.33 francs.  Swiss Life, Switzerland’s largest life insurer, surged 6.1
percent to 87.95 francs. The stock was raised to buy from sell
at UBS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  