-- Syrian Violence Keeps UN Observer Mission Sidelined
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2012-06-20T01:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/syrian-violence-keeps-un-observer-mission-sidelined.html
The United Nations observer mission
in  Syria  will remain suspended until the level of violence
declines enough for the monitors to be able to move around the
country to carry out their activities, the commander of the
operation said.  “We need to see a change if the activity of the mission in
the current situation and under the current mandate is to be
meaningful,” Norwegian Major General Robert Mood told reporters
yesterday after briefing the UN Security Council in New York.  He said he hoped his mission could return to monitoring
activities in at least some areas.  “The suffering of the women and children of Syria is
getting worse,” Mood told journalists.  Mood suspended the mission’s activities June 16, saying
that increasing violence made it impossible for the monitors to
carry out their task of observing and trying to prevent attacks
on civilians. The UN has 291 unarmed military observers and 89
civilian monitors in Syria.  The suspension will be reviewed daily, with the aim of
returning the mission to full operation, said Li Baodong,
 China ’s UN ambassador, who holds the council’s rotating
presidency.  At least 31 people were killed in the conflict yesterday,
according to the Local Coordinating Committees, an activist
group. More than 10,000 people have died since the start of the
uprising, according to the UN.  Mission’s Future  Any decision to revise the observers’ mandate -- or end the
mission -- would be made by the council, with advice from UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.  If Mood and  Kofi Annan , the UN and Arab League envoy for
Syria, agree that the monitors can’t do their job, there will be
no reason to keep them in place, especially if they continue to
come under fire, diplomats from two Security Council-member
nations said June 18. Annan is scheduled to brief the council on
June 26.  The U.S. is also questioning whether to support extending
the mission’s mandate, which otherwise expires July 21, or even
shut it down sooner, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said
last week. Russia has supported the operation even as it has
opposed stronger Security Council action, including economic
sanctions and an arms embargo against the Syrian regime.  Mood’s boss, Herve Ladsous, chief of the UN’s peacekeeping
operations, told reporters that the UN was sticking with Annan’s
six-point plan to bring about a democratic transition in Syria.
The first point of the plan calls for a cease-fire, to be
monitored by Mood’s unarmed troops.  “There is no Plan B,” he said.  Annan Plan  Ladsous said a recommendation on whether to continue the
monitoring mission will be made by Moon “in due course.”  Unless the Syrian government and the opposition can be made
to comply with Annan’s plan, “we may be reaching the day when
it will be too late to stop the crisis from spinning out of
control,” the UN’s chief political officer, Assistant
Secretary-General Oscar Fernandez-Taranco, told the  Security
Council  yesterday.  Even if the monitors can’t leave their barracks, they still
serve a useful purpose, said Bill Nash, a retired U.S. Army
major general who led peacekeeping forces in Bosnia.  “You’ve got to go through this process and show that it
fails,” Nash said in an interview from his home in  Washington .
“Then the Security Council has cause to go one better. I don’t
know exactly what one better is right now, but it’s obvious as
you look back over the history of intervention that if at first
we don’t succeed, we look at how to get more resources.”  Pressuring Assad  The U.S.,  France  and Britain and are hoping the presence of
the observers, and their reports back to the UN, will increase
pressure on  Russia  and China to stop supporting Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad.  In the interim, Nash said, the observers’ presence keeps a
spotlight on Syria and the victims of the fighting. That in
itself increases the pressure on Syria and its supporters,
possibly opening a way to peace talks, he said.  “Calling the Annan plan dead does not change the fact that
there is a need for a diplomatic track,” said Aram Nerguizian,
a visiting fellow at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies in Washington. “None of the options beyond diplomacy
are any good or will produce a stable geopolitical outcome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  