-- U.K.-Argentina Feud Over Falkland Islands Intrudes on G-20 Stage
-- B y   A n a s t a s i a   U s t i n o v a
-- 2012-06-20T01:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/u-k-argentina-feud-over-falkland-islands-intrudes-on-g-20-stage.html
A feud over the British-controlled
Falkland Islands intruded onto the Group of 20 summit, as U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron  refused to accept an envelope from
his Argentine counterpart containing documents that defended her
country’s sovereignty claim over the archipelago.  Cameron, speaking to reporters at the meeting in Los Cabos,
 Mexico , said standing up for the rights of the Falkland Island’s
residents to choose their own form of government was the “right
thing to do.” He said a referendum to be held next year in
which the islands’ 3,000-plus residents will vote whether to
remain a British territory or declare independence should be
recognized as a “game-changer” for the ongoing impasse that
led to war between the U.K. and Argentina in 1982.  “I think this referendum is very important and I wanted to
raise it specifically with the Argentine president,” Cameron
said. “It was right to stand up for the people of the Falkland
Islands, it was important to put this issue beyond doubt.”  In a discussion initiated by Cameron at the convention
center where G-20 leaders were gathered, Cameron approached
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, telling the Argentine president
that she should “respect the views” of the islanders, Alfredo Scoccimarro, a spokesman for Fernandez, told the state-run news
service Telam.  Fernandez responded by trying to hand him an envelope
containing United Nations resolutions backing  Argentina ’s claim
of sovereignty over the “Malvinas,” the Spanish name for the
area, Scoccimarro said.  “Fernandez told him that she wasn’t planning to talk about
sovereignty and just wanted to give him this envelope,”
Scoccimarro told Telam. “And at that moment, Cameron absolutely
refused to accept it.”  Britain defeated Argentina in a 1982 war after Argentine
forces invaded the Falklands. Tensions have heightened this
year, with Argentina protesting the U.K.’s deployment of a
modern warship to the region and  Prince William ’s arrival for a
stint as a military-helicopter pilot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anastasia Ustinova in Los Cabos at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  