-- U.K. Doctors Stage First Strike Since 1975; Operations Canceled
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-06-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/u-k-doctors-stage-first-strike-since-1975-operations-canceled.html
U.K. doctors will stage their first
strike since 1975 today in a dispute over pensions, with the
government saying the action may lead to the cancellation of as
many as 30,000 operations.  Doctors are angry that the government has renegotiated a
2008 agreement on their state-funded pensions and are fighting
plans for them to retire at 68, in line with other workers.
Doctors will still go to work today, though they will only
provide emergency care.  “Doctors are now being asked to work even longer, up to 68
years of age, and contribute even more, meaning doctors have to
pay up to twice as much as civil servants on the same pay for
the same pension,” Hamish Meldrum, the chairman of the council
of the British Medical Association, the doctors’ labor union,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Doctors accept the need to play
their part in improving public finances. We don’t expect better
pensions or preferential treatment, just fair treatment.”  Health Secretary Andrew Lansley, calling on the doctors to
cancel the planned action, estimated 58,000 diagnostic tests
would be postponed, 200,000 outpatient appointments rescheduled
and as many as 1.25 million appointments with family doctors
delayed.  The BMA says doctors’ pensions are properly funded and
sustainable, in contrast to others in the public sector, and
that a cap on employer pension contributions agreed on four
years ago means taxpayers don’t have to shoulder any more of the
cost of their retirement.  The current estimated cost of paying pension benefits to
doctors totals 83 billion pounds ($53 billion). Of that, 67
billion pounds is likely to have to come from the taxpayer,
Lansley says.  NHS Overhaul  The government is also facing protests from other public-
sector workers over moves to make them work longer and pay more
into their pension plans. It’s been in conflict with health-
service staff over plans for an overhaul of the way the  National
Health Service  is managed, giving more control to family
doctors, that was approved by Parliament earlier this year.  The opposition  Labour Party  urged the doctors to “step
back” from the planned action. Health spokesman  Andy Burnham 
said in an e-mailed statement that “patients shouldn’t be made
to suffer.” The BMA said it will ensure patient safety is
protected.  Doctors last withdrew their labor in 1975, when consultants
worked to rule over a contractual dispute and junior doctors
worked no more than 40 hours a week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 