-- U.K. Stocks Advance for Fourth Day; Invensys, ITV Rally
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-06-20T16:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/u-k-stocks-pare-decline-kesa-falls-aer-lingus-soars.html
U.K. stocks  increased for a fourth
day, extending a six-week high, amid speculation the  Federal
Reserve  may expand support for the economy and as Bank of
England policy makers said more stimulus is likely.  Invensys Plc surged 28 percent after the company was said
to be evaluating options, including a sale.  ITV Plc (ITV)  climbed 3
percent amid reports that a private-equity company might be
interested in acquiring the broadcaster. Aer Lingus Group Plc
soared 15 percent in Dublin after  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  said it
will make another attempt to buy the Irish airline.  Kesa
Electricals Plc (KESA)  sank 5 percent after the retailer’s profit fell.  The FTSE 100 Index rose 35.98 points, or 0.6 percent, to
5,622.29 at the close of trading in London, the highest since
May 4. The gauge has still  fallen 5.8 percent from its 2012 high 
on March 16 as concern mounted that  Greece  will leave the euro
area. The broader FTSE All-Share Index advanced 0.7 percent
today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index slipped 0.3 percent.  “As the global economy teeters on the brink, and the euro-
zone crisis festers away in the background, the hope for many is
that Helicopter Ben and his band of policy makers at the Fed
will unleash a new round of stimulus, or at the very least tweak
the language of their statement to make it more accommodative,”
Chris Beauchamp, a market analyst at IG Index in London, wrote
in e-mailed comments. “We had an appetizer this morning when
the  Bank of England  published the minutes of its latest policy
meeting.”  Operation Twist  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and fellow policy makers will
expand Operation Twist beyond $400 billion to spur growth and
buy protection against a worsening sovereign-debt crisis in
 Europe , according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Fifty-eight percent of respondents in a June 18 poll said
the Fed will prolong the program, which seeks to lower borrowing
costs by extending the average maturity of the securities in the
central bank’s portfolio. The current plan ends this month.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  ends its two-day meeting
today with a statement scheduled for release at 12:30 p.m. in
 Washington . Sixty percent of the economists surveyed said the
Fed probably won’t start a third round of large-scale bond
purchases, also known as quantitative easing.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  and three other policy
makers were overruled in a push to expand the bank’s bond-
purchase program as a majority said more stimulus was likely to
be needed to address risks from the euro crisis, according to
minutes of its June 6-7 meeting published today.  Bond Purchases  The Monetary Policy Committee voted 5-4 to keep its bond-
purchase target at 325 billion pounds ($511 billion). Most MPC
members “judged that some further economic stimulus was either
warranted immediately or would probably become warranted to
meet” their 2 percent inflation target.  Euro-area leaders at the Group of 20 summit in Mexico
yesterday pledged to take “all necessary policy measures” to
defend the currency union. The leaders of the world’s 20 biggest
economies endorsed a road map for tighter integration to cut
borrowing costs and prevent further economic damage.  Antonis Samaras, leader of Greece’s  New Democracy  party,
was sworn in as prime minister today after Greek political
leaders agreed on a coalition that will seek relief from
austerity measures tied to international loans.  New Democracy, which won a June 17 election with almost 30
percent of the vote, will join forces with the socialist Pasok
party, which finished third, and the sixth-place Democratic
Left. They will hold 179 seats in the 300-member parliament,
ending a period of political limbo that began with an
inconclusive May 6 election.  Invensys, ITV  Invensys (ISYS)  rallied 28 percent to 257 pence, the biggest gain
since 2001. The British maker of rail signaling and industrial
automation systems is evaluating options including a sale after
Emerson Electric Co. expressed interest in buying some or all of
the company, said people familiar with the situation.  Emerson is mainly interested in Invensys’s Foxboro unit,
which makes meters and control systems, and not the rail unit,
said one of the people, who asked not to be identified as talks
are private. Still, Emerson would consider a deal for the whole
company to get the Foxboro business, that person said.  ITV climbed 3 percent to 76.5 pence, its highest level this
month. Newspapers including the Financial Times and the Guardian
reported speculation that the media company might be a takeover
target for a private-equity company. ITV spokeswoman Mary Fagan
declined to comment.  ITV ‘Attractive’  “I can easily justify and rationalize why it would be
attractive to a private-equity buyer,” said  Alex DeGroote , an
analyst at Panmure Gordon in London. “The probability of such a
sale however is low. Execution and borrowing is tough in this
environment.”  Aer Lingus (AERL)  jumped 15 percent to 1.09 euros in Dublin
trading as Ryanair, Europe’s biggest discount airline, said it
will make an offer that values the carrier at 694 million euros
($883 million).  Ryanair intends to make an all-cash bid of 1.30 euros a
share. It already holds a 29.8 percent stake acquired in 2006
and 2007. Aer Lingus said investors should take no action.  Sage Group Plc (SGE) , the U.K.’s biggest software maker, rose 5.5
percent to 267.5 pence, gaining for a fourth consecutive day
after purchasing a controlling stake in Folhamatic to enter
 Brazil  for the first time.  Aviva Advances  Aviva Plc (AV/) , an insurer, climbed 4.7 percent to 279.1 pence.
The European Union is considering phasing in new capital rules
for the life insurance industry over seven years, easing the
burden on insurers who had criticized the changes.  The European Commission is considering the change as it
negotiates with insurers and members of the European parliament
about the transition from the current Solvency I regime to
Solvency II rules, Karel van Hulle, the EC’s head of pension and
insurance, said today.  Kesa Electricals slid 5 percent to 52.5 pence, the biggest
drop in more than a week. The owner of the Darty electronics
chain in Europe said profit slumped 42 percent and cut its
dividend as tough conditions across  France , its largest market,
weighed on sales of televisions.  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME) , the operator of retail stores, slid
5.3 percent to 87 pence after yesterday surging 24 percent. The
stock was cut to  neutral  from overweight at HSBC Holdings Plc,
meaning investors should no longer hold more of the shares than
are represented in equity benchmarks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  