-- U.K. to Require Public Companies to Report CO2 Emissions
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-06-20T17:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/u-k-to-require-public-companies-to-report-co2-emissions.html
The U.K. will make publicly listed
companies report their greenhouse-gas output, the first country
to do so as it calls on big business to clean up its act.  All companies listed on the main market of the London Stock
Exchange will have to include emissions data in their annual
reports starting in April, the Department for Environment, Food
and Rural Affairs said today in a website  statement .  Large public- and private-sector organizations account for
about 10 percent of Britain’s emissions. Tackling the pollutants
pumped out by factories, utilities and other big companies may
help the U.K. meet a European Union target to cut carbon output
to 50 percent of 1990 levels by 2025, a goal that’s also driven
the growth of renewables from wind and biomass to solar power.  The requirement on companies to report the data could save
4 million metric tons of carbon-dioxide emissions by 2021,
according to Defra.  The  Confederation of British Industry , the U.K.’s biggest
business lobby, welcomed the move for saving companies money on
their energy bills, while the Institute of Environmental
Management and Assessment said the program doesn’t go far enough
because it fails to include all large businesses.  Good Business  “British companies need to reduce their harmful emissions
for the benefit of the planet,” Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said in the statement. “But many back our plans because
being energy efficient makes good business sense too.”  The government will decide in 2016 whether to extend the
obligation to all large companies, according to the statement.  The program won’t put an undue burden on most major
companies, which already voluntarily disclose their emissions,
said Doug Johnston, leader of U.K. Climate Change and
Sustainability Services at consultants Ernst & Young LLP.  “Companies will be hoping that the new requirements bring
clarity to an area of business regulation that is widely
recognized as playing a key role in how the U.K. responds to the
challenge of climate change,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  Clegg outlined the plans at the Rio+20 conference in  Rio de
Janeiro , where delegates from 190 nations are discussing steps
to stem environmental degradation. The summit was preceded by a
corporate sustainability forum at which companies were urged to
standardize and improve sustainability reporting after divergent
guidelines emerged on world stock exchanges in the past decade.  Guide Investment  “Investors are now looking hard at the green credentials
of businesses, and the reporting of greenhouse-gas emissions
will give them vital information as they decide where to invest
their money,” Caroline Spelman, U.K. secretary of state for the
environment, said in the statement.  Exchanges in  Sao Paulo , Copenhagen, Johannesburg and
Singapore already have begun requiring members to report
material data about environmental risks in a way that allows
investors to make comparisons. Others have yet to make such
demands.  “Provided this is done in a sensible way, this
announcement is to be applauded,” Rhian Kelly, CBI director for
business environment policy, said in a statement. Kelly urged
the government to scrap a separate tax on emissions known as the
Carbon Reduction Commitment, which covers 5,000 organizations,
to avoid “duplication” by providing simpler rules.  Catch All  The full benefits of mandatory reporting will only
materialize if it applies to all large businesses, of which
there are about 24,000, Martin Baxter, executive director of
policy at the Institute of Environmental Management and
Assessment, said in an e-mailed statement.  EEF, a U.K. manufacturers association, echoed the call for
a broader application.  “Government should have waited and taken a much wider view
in the context of the future of other related issues such as the
Carbon Reduction Commitment and the shape of  climate-change 
agreements,” said Gareth Stace, head of climate and environment
policy at EEF. The Carbon Reduction Commitment has twice been
delayed and criticized by businesses for its complexity.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  