-- Treasuries Decline as Fed Extends Operation Twist to Year-End
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-06-20T21:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/u-s-30-year-bonds-gain-as-fed-expands-operation-twist-program.html
Treasuries fell after the  Federal
Reserve  said it will extend its program to replace short-term
notes with longer-term debt in a bid to cut unemployment and
spur growth.  U.S. government securities fluctuated earlier as German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  declined to commit to direct sovereign-
debt purchases through the euro-area bailout fund, while saying
there’s the “possibility” of purchases on the secondary
market. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said policy makers are
prepared to consider further asset purchases.  “The Fed is holding course and giving politicians the
opportunity to resolve problems,” said Matthew Duch, a fixed-
income money manager in Bethesda,  Maryland , at Calvert
Investments, which oversees more than $12 billion in assets.
“It’s hard to make the case that you should own Treasuries in
this environment, but it’s hard to be without them as well, as
the level of uncertainty and lack of direction is palpable.”  The benchmark  10-year note  yield rose four basis points to
1.66 percent at 5:43 p.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. Earlier it increased to 1.68 percent and
declined to 1.60 percent. The yield dropped to 1.4387 percent on
June 1, the lowest on record. The price of the 1.75 percent
security due in May 2022 declined 11/32, or $3.44 per $1,000
face amount, to 100 27/32.  Thirty-year bond  yields were little changed at 2.74
percent. They rose six basis points earlier to 2.80 percent and
fell five basis points to 2.69 percent.  Volume Increases  Trading volume climbed. About $316 billion of Treasuries
 changed hands  as of 5:03 p.m. through ICAP Plc, the world’s
largest interdealer broker, up 47 percent from yesterday’s $215
billion. The average volume over the past year is $255 billion.  Merkel, speaking to reporters after meeting Dutch Prime
Minister  Mark Rutte  in Berlin, said there are no concrete plans
on bond purchasing. Still, she said, “there is the possibility
of purchasing sovereign bonds on the secondary market.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee , the Fed’s policy-making
group, said in a statement at the end of a two-day meeting it
will expand its program to replace short-term notes with longer-
term debt by $267 billion through the end of 2012. The program,
dubbed Operation Twist by traders, is designed to extend the
maturity of central-bank holdings to lower borrowing costs.  The extension “should put downward pressure on longer-term
interest rates and help to make broader financial conditions
more accommodative,” the FOMC said in the statement. The
current, $400 billion Operation Twist was announced in
September, when the 10-year note yielded 1.86 percent, and
expires this month.  Fed Goal  “The Fed is going to continue taking long-term assets out
of the marketplace,” said Bret Barker, a portfolio manager at
Los Angeles-based TCW Group Inc., which manages about $128
billion in assets. “The Fed’s goal is to take volatility out of
the market, keep rates low and stable, and help keep  mortgage
rates  low. As long as they do this, the Fed is happy as can
be.”  The difference in yield between two- and 30-year Treasuries
was 243 basis points today. It has narrowed from 304 basis
points on Sept. 20, the day before the Fed announced the plan.  Volatility in the Treasuries market dropped 11 percent to
84.7 basis points over the past two days, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, as investors speculated the
Fed would extend Operation Twist. It was the gauge’s their first
back-to-back declines since May. The index measures price swings
based on options.  ‘Volatility Crusher’  “The Fed’s decision is a volatility crusher,” said  Carl Lantz , head of  interest-rate  strategy in New York at Credit
Suisse AG, one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the central
bank. “It’s more beneficial for the long end than the
intermediate sector, which means more flattening of the curve
and strength in the long end.”  The Fed has helped keep the economy growing for nine-
straight quarters by pumping $2.3 trillion into the financial
system in two rounds of debt purchases under quantitative easing
and through Operation Twist. It also has kept its key  interest
rate  at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 and said it
expects to keep the benchmark there through late 2014.  Fifty-eight percent of economists in a June 18 survey by
Bloomberg News said the Fed would prolong Operation Twist today,
and 60 percent said it probably won’t announce a third round of
large-scale asset-purchases, or quantitative easing.  Forecasts Reduced  Central-bank officials lowered their forecasts for growth
and raised their predictions for unemployment in each of the
next three years. They now see 1.9 percent to 2.4 percent growth
in 2012, down from their April forecast of 2.4 percent to 2.9
percent. The  unemployment rate  will end the year at 8 percent to
8.2 percent, up from 7.8 percent to 8 percent in April.  Policy makers foresee a weaker economy into 2014. The
 unemployment rate  will end that year at 7 percent to 7.7
percent, up from a 6.7 percent to 7.4 percent in April,
according to their so-called central tendency estimates, which
exclude the three highest and three lowest forecasts.  “The day-to-day activity and the erratic behavior coming
out of the  euro zone  is just overwhelming to people,” said Paul Horrmann, a broker in New York at Tradition Asiel Securities
Inc., an interdealer broker. “ Everything is disturbingly
unconvincing. The story is the lack of conviction, volatility
and direction.”  Treasuries fell earlier today as Greek political leaders
struck an agreement on a governing coalition, increasing
speculation  Europe ’s debt crisis may be contained and decreasing
refuge demand.  Euro-area leaders at a Group of 20 nations summit that
ended yesterday pledged to take “all necessary policy
measures” to defend the currency union.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  