-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for June 15 (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2012-06-20T14:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-june-15-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 15.6 million
barrels per day during the week ending June 15, 12 thousand
barrels per day below the previous week’s average. Refineries
operated at 91.9 percent of their operable capacity last week.
Gasoline production decreased last week, averaging 9.0 million
barrels per day. Distillate fuel production decreased slightly
last week, averaging 4.7 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged 9.4 million barrels per day
last week, up by 328 thousand barrels per day from the previous
week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have averaged
9.1 million barrels per day, 168 thousand barrels per day above
the same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline
imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 988 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 67 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in
the Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 2.9 million
barrels from the previous week. At 387.3 million barrels, U.S.
crude oil inventories are above the upper limit of the average
range for this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories
increased by 0.9 million barrels last week and are in the lower
limit of the average range. Both finished gasoline inventories
and blending components inventories increased last week.
Distillate fuel inventories increased by 1.2 million barrels
last week and are in the lower limit of the average range for
this time of year. Propane/propylene inventories increased by
1.3 million barrels last week and are above the upper limit of
the average range. Total commercial petroleum inventories
increased by 11.1 million barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged 18.6 million barrels per day, down by 2.2 percent
compared to the similar period last year. Over the last four
weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged about 8.9
million barrels per day, down by 5.0 percent from the same
period last year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged
3.6 million barrels per day over the last four weeks, down by
1.6 percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is 7.5 percent higher over the last four weeks compared
to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  