-- U.S. Stocks Decline as Fed Reduces Growth Estimates
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-06-20T21:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/u-s-stock-futures-are-little-changed-rim-p-g-decline.html
U.S. stocks dropped, following a
four-day gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as the  Federal
Reserve  cut its estimates for growth amid a slowdown in hiring.  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) , the largest maker of graphic-design
software, declined 2.7 percent after forecasting sales and
profit that trailed estimates.  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  tumbled 2.9
percent as the world’s biggest consumer-goods company reduced
its earnings and revenue forecasts for the second time in less
than two months.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  rallied 3 percent.  The S&P 500 retreated 0.2 percent to 1,355.69 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  decreased 12.94
points, or 0.1 percent, to 12,824.39. Trading  volume  for
exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was about 6.6 billion shares,
or almost in line with the three-month average.  “It’s not all bad news, but caution is warranted,” said
Eric Teal, chief investment officer at First Citizens Bancshares
Inc., which manages $4.5 billion in Raleigh,  North Carolina . He
spoke in a telephone interview. “If the Fed saw significant
deterioration, the policy response would have been on a larger
scale. Yet there’s increased risk to the economic outlook.”  Stocks fell as the central bank cut its estimates for
growth and said it sees little progress on unemployment during
the rest of the year. The Fed lowered its central tendency
estimate for U.S. 2012 gross domestic product growth to 1.9
percent to 2.4 percent from 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent in April.  The Fed will expand its program to replace short-term bonds
with longer-term debt by $267 billion through the end of 2012.
That “should put downward pressure on longer-term  interest
rates  and help to make broader financial conditions more
accommodative,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said.  ‘Additional Steps’  “If we don’t see continued improvement in the labor
market, we’ll be prepared to take additional steps if
appropriate,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a news
conference after the FOMC’s two-day meeting. He said those steps
might include additional asset purchases.  Expectations for further policy action gave stocks their
first back-to-back  weekly  gain since April on June 15. The  S&P
500  earlier this month was on the brink of a so-called
correction, or a 10 percent drop from a recent peak, on concern
about a global slowdown and a worsening of Europe’s crisis.  Investors also watched Europe’s latest attempts to tame its
debt crisis today. Antonis Samaras, head of Greece’s New
Democracy party, was sworn in as prime minister after Greek
political leaders agreed on a coalition that will seek relief
from austerity measures tied to international loans.  Lehman-Like  European policy makers are unlikely to solve the region’s
problem unless they have a crisis “moment” like Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy, said Gary D. Cohn, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.’s president and chief operating officer.  “My personal view is we’re going to need a moment”
because the issues are political, Cohn, said in an interview
with  Erik Schatzker  on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”  Eight out of 10 groups in the S&P 500 fell today as utility
and consumer staples companies had the biggest losses.
Technology and financial shares advanced.  Adobe slumped 2.7 percent to $31.99. It reduced the high
end of its annual sales growth forecast range to 7 percent from
8 percent, which is “anemic” for a technology company, said
Barbara Coffey, an analyst with National Securities.  P&G lost 2.9 percent to $60.39. The reduced  forecasts 
illustrate the difficulties faced by consumer-products makers as
rising unemployment in Europe and  North America  restricts
spending. Danone, the world’s biggest yogurt maker, cut its
profitability forecast yesterday. Europe is “difficult for
everybody,” Jean-Marc Huet, chief financial officer of
Unilever, said at the Paris conference yesterday.  Walgreen Slumps  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  retreated 2.9 percent to $29.21. The biggest
U.S. drugstore chain was downgraded to neutral from outperform
at Macquarie Group Ltd. by equity analyst Dane Leone. The 12-
month share-price estimate is $34.  JPMorgan gained 3 percent to $36.45. Trading in the credit
derivatives index that contributed to the bank’s losses in its
London chief investment office soared to a record yesterday in a
sign that the biggest U.S. bank may be unwinding its position,
according to data cited by Credit Suisse Group AG.  The lender is seeking to stem at least $2 billion in
trading losses from the U.K. operation, where Bruno Iksil, known
as the London Whale, managed a portfolio of credit derivatives
so large it distorted the market.  A strategy by the unit to reduce risks from hedges
backfired and left the bank with even bigger and harder-to-
manage exposures, Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said last
week. JPMorgan has sold 65 to 70 percent of its losing position
and is still selling the rest, CNBC reported.  Airlines Rally  The Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index advanced 2.3 percent as
oil dropped to an eight-month low after the Energy Department
reported that U.S. crude inventories climbed to the highest
level in 22 years.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  rallied 1.9 percent to $17.51. The
biggest maker of computer-networking equipment was raised to
outperform from market perform at BMO Capital Markets.  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT)  gained 3.4 percent to $11.55. The
largest producer of chipmaking equipment was raised to
overweight at Barclays Plc.  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  jumped 5.3 percent to $33.78 as the
electric-car maker prepares to begin deliveries of Model S
sedans and Goldman Sachs raised its price target for the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  