-- U.S. Stocks, Oil Slide as Treasuries Erase Drop on Fed
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-06-20T16:54:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/u-s-stocks-extend-loss-as-treasuries-erase-drop-on-fed.html
U.S. stocks fell and Treasuries
erased declines after the  Federal Reserve  said it will extend
its program known as Operation Twist by $267 billion,
disappointing investors speculating on a larger stimulus effort.
Oil sank as the dollar gained.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.4 percent to
1,352.41 at 12:53 p.m. in New York, retreating from the highest
level since May 10. The 10-year Treasury yield was little
changed at 1.62 percent after rising as much as six points
earlier. The dollar strengthened against 13 of 16 major peers
and oil plunged 3 percent to help lead commodities lower.  Prior stimulus efforts by the Fed, including two rounds of
quantitative easing through asset purchases known on  Wall Street 
as QE1 and QE2, helped the S&P 500 double from its bear-market
bottom in 2009 while Treasury yields reached the lowest on
record as demand for safety grew amid  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “The market was way too optimistic about getting QE3,”
said Paul Zemsky, the New York-based head of asset allocation
for ING Investment Management. His firm oversees $160 billion.
“People were throwing around numbers that were larger than what
they announced for the extension of Operation Twist. It made no
sense. It does seem like the Fed wants to keep some
powder dry. They are doing the right thing.”  Operation Twist  The announcement from the Fed today comes as the original
Operation Twist was set to expire this month. In Operation
Twist, the central bank sells short-term securities and buys the
same amount of longer-term debt to lengthen the average maturity
of its holdings and keep borrowing costs low.  Ten-year yields have increased from their record of 1.4387
percent on June 1, the day the  S&P 500  began a rebound after a
9.9 percent retreat from a four-year high on April 2. The  stock
index  rallied after its valuation slid to 12.9 times its
companies’ reported earnings, the cheapest since November.  A valuation measure showed U.S. 10-year notes have declined
from the most expensive levels ever. The term premium, a model
created by economists at the Fed, reached a record of negative
0.94 percent on June 1 as investors sought refuge from Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value. The average
over the past decade is 0.50 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  