-- UN’s Ban Urges Action on Rio+20 Sustainability Goals
-- B y   R e e d   L a n d b e r g
-- 2012-06-20T21:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/un-s-ban-urges-action-on-rio-20-sustainability-goals.html
The world’s economic model is
“broken,” and countries must look beyond their own interests
to implement more sustainable policies, United Nations
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said.  “For too long we have we have behaved as though we could
indefinitely burn and consume our way to prosperity,” Ban told
delegates at the UN’s  Rio+20  Conference on  Sustainable
Development  today. “Now is the time to rise beyond narrow
national interest. It is time to act with a broader, long-term
vision. We are running out of time.”  Delegates from more than 180 countries are in  Rio de
Janeiro  this week to promote policies that cut fossil-fuel use,
boost renewable energy supplies and step up efficiency programs.
World leaders are due to endorse a 49-page agreement outlining
goals on June 22.  Companies from  Coca-Cola Inc. (CCE)  to Levi Strauss & Co. and
governments from Japan to Barbados promised at the talks to use
water more efficiently, scale back  carbon emissions  and step up
their use of renewable energy. Leaders said the agreement in Rio
was only a first step, that more needed to be done.  “Time is our most scarce resource,” Brazilian President
 Dilma Rousseff  said at the opening of the high-level portion of
the talks. “We are here today because the world requires
changes. The well-being of present generations cannot be built
to the detriment of future generations.”  Pressuring Leaders  With the conclusions of the meeting settled in advance by
negotiators, Ban’s comments were aimed at pushing national
leaders toward stepping up action at home. The UN today counted
at least 490 voluntary  commitments  made by member nations,
companies and groups to clean up the Earth, air and oceans.
Environmental groups said the agreement wasn’t ambitious enough,
and Ban acknowledged he’s disappointed more wasn’t being done.  “The negotiations have been very difficult and very slow
because of all these conflicting interests,” Ban said at a
press conference today. “What’s important is that all the
recommendations of this outcome document should be implemented
without delay. Nature doesn’t wait.”  French President  Francois Hollande  said the document to be
approved this week includes “insufficiencies,” especially the
lack of a tax on financial transactions and no new protections
for oceans. He declined to discuss the European economic
situation during a press conference in Rio.  “The text is a road map for our sustainable development
goals,” Hollande said. “If we want to reach the goals we set
for development we need to mobilize all the resources possible.
Many countries, more liberal countries, don’t want this tax, but
this is one of the matters that European countries will discuss
at the end of June at the European Council. Some European
countries may create this tax in the context of what we call
reinforced cooperation.”  Expanding Gap  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said he’d make available 200
million  yuan  ($31 million) to fight  climate change  and that his
nation would help  developing countries  cope with soil erosion
and operating automatic weather stations. He also expressed
discomfort with the sustainability agenda, stressing that
poverty reduction was  China ’s highest priority.  “The global process of sustainable development is not
balanced,” Wen said. “The gap between the north and the south
is rising. Grave new challenges are posed by the international
financial crisis, climate change and  food security .”  Systematic Looting  Iran’s President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  lashed out at
developed nations that designed the world financial system,
which he said has conducted a “systematic draining and looting
of the wealth” of poorer nations for generations.  “The international order must be redesigned to serve the
spiritual needs of humankind,” Ahmadinejad told UN delegates
today.  Ban said the effort to make business “sustainable” is
“an idea whose time has come” and that Rio will mark a
milestone for the movement if world leaders allow it.  “World leaders must send a signal that they are committed
to a sustainable future,” Ban said. “Our challenge here in Rio
is to bring that vision to life, not just in words but with
action.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  