-- Hungary Plans Higher Banking-Transaction Tax Starting in 2014
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-06-20T10:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/hungary-plans-higher-banking-transaction-tax-starting-in-2014.html
Hungary  plans to increase a proposed
banking-transaction tax by more than 10 percent to 322 billion
forint ($1.4 billion) a year starting in 2014.  Revenue from an insurance levy will rise to 60 billion
forint annually from 52.5 billion forint over the same period, a
draft of the budget through 2016 on Parliament’s  website  shows.
A telecommunications tax that comes into effect next year should
generate 44 billion forint, according to the document.  The government is in talks with lenders over special taxes.
The amount of revenue the planned 0.1 percent transaction levy
will accrue depends on whether an income ceiling is imposed,
whether an extraordinary 60 billion-forint bank charge is
scrapped next year and on the willingness of banks to boost
lending, Economy Minister Gyorgy Matolcsy said June 14.  Hungary, which wants to start financial aid talks with the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union next month,
is trying to wean its budget off a reliance on extraordinary
taxes, which Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government has used
since 2010 to close budget holes. The economy shrank 0.7 percent
from a year earlier in the first quarter, the first contraction
in more than three years.  Orban has said the transaction levy will be a permanent
feature of the  tax code . Lenders oppose government plans to take
in 283 billion forint in revenue from the tax next year, which
may lead to such transactions being diverted abroad, the Banking
Association said June 14.  Lender Pact  The imposition of a transaction tax without canceling the
special 60 billion-forint charge would “annul” a December
agreement between banks and the government to aid foreign-
currency mortgage holders and boost credit, Levente Kovacs, the
association’s secretary-general, told the Nepszabadsag newspaper
in an interview published June 9.  As well as revenue from the transaction tax, the draft
budget envisages collecting 72 billion forint through the
extraordinary charge next year, including payments from
financial-services companies other than banks, compared with 187
billion forint in 2012.  The charge will be scrapped starting in 2014, according to
the plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  