-- Unicom Leads Mobile Carriers Tumble on 3G Users: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-06-20T20:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/unicom-leads-mobile-carriers-tumble-on-3g-users-china-overnight.html
China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (CHU)  led a
drop in the nation’s biggest wireless carriers traded in the
U.S. after data showed third-generation service users grew in
May at the slowest pace in eight months.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in New York fell 0.9 percent, the most since
June 1, to 93.20 yesterday in New York. China Unicom, the
country’s second-largest operator of wireless networks, dropped
the most in four months while  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the biggest,
declined for the first time in four days. China Telecom Corp.,
the smallest one among the three, snapped a seven-day rally.  China Unicom added 2.73 million users for its 3G service
last month, down from 2.92 million new customers in April and
the lowest monthly gain since September, according to a June 19
filing.  China  Mobile gained 2.39 million subscribers in May,
after adding 2.31 million a month earlier. China’s economy
expanded 8.1 percent in the January-March period, the slowest
pace in 11 quarters, as the debt crisis in Europe and slower
growth in the U.S. curbed demand for exports.  “The slowdown in 3G customer growth is a reflection of the
general economic slowdown in China in the second quarter,”
Michael Ding, who helps manage $1.5 billion at U.S. Global
Investors Inc., said by phone yesterday from San Antonio, Texas.
“3G subscribers are mostly white-collar employees, so when
there’s less exports, fewer housing starts, less corporate
spending, these people feel poorer and don’t choose to get a new
phone.”  China ETF Declines  The iShares FTSE  China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest U.S.-
listed China exchange-traded fund, lost 0.3 percent to $33.94,
snapping a six-day rally. The Shanghai Composite Index of
mainland stocks dropped 0.3 percent to a one-week low of
2,292.88. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.2 percent to
1,355.69 after the  Federal Reserve  cut estimates for economic
growth as Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said progress in the job
market has slowed and access to credit remains a major issue.  American depositary receipts of China Unicom, based in
Beijing, slid 4.8 percent to $13.35, the steepest drop since
Feb. 6. The ADRs, each representing 10 underlying shares in the
company,  traded  0.4 percent below the Hong Kong stock, the first
discount in three days.  Unicom will introduce smartphones costing less than 700
 yuan  ($110) in China in the near future, 30 percent less than
the cheapest devices it currently offers, President Lu Yimin
told the GSMA Mobile Asia Expo in Shanghai yesterday, without
providing a more specific time frame. The company currently
offers handsets from Huawei Technologies Co. and ZTE Corp.
costing less than 1,000 yuan apiece.  Network Trials  China Mobile’s ADRs lost 0.8 percent to $52.96 after
gaining in the previous three days. The company’s ongoing trial
of fourth-generation TD-LTE  network equipment  is going smoothly
and it has uncovered no issues with the technology, Chairman  Xi Guohua  said at the Shanghai meeting yesterday. The biggest
bottleneck for adoption of the new standard is the devices’
abilities, he said.  China Mobile had a total of 64.3 million 3G users by the
end of May, data on its website showed. That compared with 54.5
million at Unicom.  China Telecom’s ADRs sank 2.4 percent to $45.56. The ADRs
traded 0.7 percent higher than the Hong Kong stock, the widest
premium since June 7. Each ADR is equal to 100 underlying
shares.  Baidu, Melco Crown  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , the biggest online search engine in China,
dropped 3.6 percent, the most in two weeks, to $117.38.  Shanda
Games Ltd. (GAME) , the third-biggest online games operator in China,
sank 5 percent to $4.14, the steepest slide since April 4.  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , a Macau casino operator,
rose to a three-week high in New York after Sterne Agee & Leach
Equity Research said a new resort will resume construction in 45
days. Melco’s ADRs added 3.2 percent to $12.28 in New York for a
fourth day of gains.  Construction of Melco’s Studio City Macau resort will
resume in about 45 days and begin operations within three years,
Sterne Agee analyst  David Bain  said in a report yesterday,
without citing a source for the information. Melco is better
positioned than its competitors to take advantage of the
expansion of Macau’s increasingly popular Cotai Strip, he said.  China’s preliminary data for the June purchasing managers’
 index (SHCOMP)  is scheduled to be released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics. The final reading of the manufacturing gauge
contracted for a seventh straight month in May.  ‘Too Cautious’  “The sentiment is pretty low right now,”  Kevin Shacknofsky , who helps manage about $5 billion for Alpine Mutual
Funds in Purchase, New Work, said by phone yesterday. “Chinese
policy makers really need to do something to help the economy
rebound. They’ve been too cautious and they should be aggressive
right now.”  China’s central bank cut interest rates on June 7 for the
first time since 2008 and has lowered the required-reserve
requirement ratio for banks three times since November to spur
lending. The  finance ministry  extended subsidies to buyers of
energy-saving home appliances this month.  China plans to raise the stock investment allocation
allowed for qualified foreign institutional investors to 30
percent, from the existing 20 percent, China National Radio
reported yesterday, citing a statement from the China Securities
Regulatory Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  