-- Turkey Central Bank ‘Outsmarted’ Investors, SocGen Says
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-06-20T15:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/turkey-central-bank-outsmarted-many-investors-soc-gen-says.html
Turkish central bank Governor Erdem Basci “outsmarted” many investors with a dual rates policy
that has made  Turkey  “the Mediterranean safe haven,”  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  said.  “All credits to the central bank for having built up some
considerable credibility even though it all started with a lot
of confusion and misunderstanding,”  Benoit Anne , head of
emerging-markets strategy at  Societe Generale  in  London , said in
an e-mailed note to clients today. “The central bank of the
Republic of Turkey has outsmarted a lot of investors and
strategists. Even the  ratings agencies  seem to agree.”  Moody’s Investors Service upgraded Turkey’s credit rating
to Ba1 today, one level below investment grade, from Ba2, citing
a significant improvement in public finances and policies to
address a current-account deficit that was $69.2 billion in the
12 months to April. The government targets a budget deficit of
1.5 percent of gross domestic product this year.  Basci introduced a dual rates policy in October that allows
him to vary the rate at which he provides funding to banks
between the benchmark rate of 5.75 percent and a higher rate of
11.5 percent. The policy is gradually reducing imbalances in
Turkey’s economy while creating a “healthier” foundation for
growth, he wrote in an article in the Turkish policy magazine
Iktisat ve Toplum in April.  ‘Massive Easing’  The central bank may cut rates “if the depreciation
pressures on the lira disappear,” Anne said. “At 1.70 per
dollar, it is all go for some massive easing, which will further
boost appetite for lira assets.”  The lira strengthened 0.4 percent to 1.7941 at 5:55 p.m. in
Istanbul, appreciating for a seventh day in its longest streak
of gains since October. Yields on two-year government  bonds  fell
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 9.01 percent,
the lowest since February.  The nation’s benchmark gauge ISE National 100 Index rose
0.4 percent to 59,401.26, up for a second day and at the highest
level since April 30. The measure has gained in 13 out of the 14
past trading sessions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  