-- Turkey Bond Yields Head to Lowest in 8 Months on Moody’s Upgrade
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-06-20T09:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/turkey-bond-yields-head-to-lowest-in-8-months-on-moody-s-upgrade.html
Turkish bond yields headed to their
lowest in more than eight months and the lira rose against the
dollar after Moody’s upgraded the country’s credit rating to
Ba1, one level below investment grade.  Benchmark two-year  yields  plunged 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 8.96 percent at 9:45 a.m. in Istanbul, on
course for their weakest level since October. Yields on the 10-
year dropped 11 basis points to 8.75 percent, poised for the
lowest since January 2011. The lira strengthened 0.5 percent to
1.7926 per dollar, up for the seventh straight day in the
longest streak of gains since October.  The upgrade had “two main drivers: the significant
improvement that we’ve observed in Turkey’s public finances and
our observation that the government has improved its shock
absorption capacity,” Moody’s analyst  Sarah Carlson  said in a
telephone interview from  London  after the ratings action today.
“Upgrade to investment grade will probably be dependent on the
sovereign becoming more resilient to balance of payment
shocks,” Carlson said.  Turkey’s two-year bond yields have dropped 206 basis points
this year as central bank Governor Erdem Basci tightened
monetary policy to support the lira and slow bank lending that
contributed to a surge in imports last year, which resulted in
an expansion of the current-account deficit. Inflation fell to
8.3 percent in May from 11.1 percent in April, the biggest drop
since January 2003. On May 31, Trade deficit for April narrowed
more than expected, contracting for a sixth month, and the
current-account gap retreated in April for a sixth month.  Budget Deficit  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  ’s government has cut
the  budget deficit  to 1.4 percent of gross domestic product and
state debt to 39 percent, the lowest in Europe after the  Czech
Republic ,  Russia  and  Sweden . The government targets a shortfall
of 1.5 percent of GDP this year.  With the upgrade, Moody’s joins  Fitch Ratings  at placing
Turkey one level below investment grade.  Standard & Poor’s  rates
the country two levels below. Fitch has a stable rating outlook
for Turkey, while S&P cut its outlook on Turkey’s debt to stable
from positive on May 1.  The upgrade today “is a major positive not only for the
credit story but for all Turkish assets,” Simon Quijano-Evans,
the head of emerging market research for Europe, the  Middle East 
and Africa at ING Groep NV in London, said in an e-mailed
report. “It also underlines the ratings convergence story that
will continue between western and eastern Europe, especially
given the much better fiscal dynamics of the latter, with Turkey
probably the best-placed of all.”  Turkey’s central bank provided funding at its minimum
policy rate for a 12th day, reducing borrowing costs for
lenders. It has been lending at its lowest funding rate of 5.75
percent every day since June 5. It offered to lend 3 billion
liras ($1.7 billion) today in its daily repurchase agreements
auction at the minimum rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  