-- Turkey Stocks Head for Highest in Seven Weeks on Moody’s Upgrade
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-06-20T09:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/turkey-stocks-head-for-highest-in-seven-weeks-on-moody-s-upgrade.html
Lenders Akbank TAS and  Turkiye
Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  led  Turkey ’s equities index to the highest in
more than seven weeks after Moody’s Investors Service raised the
country’s credit rating to one level below investment grade.  The  ISE National 100 (XU100)  Index added 1.1 percent to 59,924.67
at 11:50 a.m. in Istanbul, on course for the strongest level on
a closing basis since April 30. The gauge has risen in 13 of the
past 14 days, extending its gain this year to 17 percent.  Moody’s raised Turkey to Ba1 from Ba2, citing improved
public finances and policies to cut the current-account deficit.
It said the outlook on the rating was positive. The country’s
dual rates policy, introduced in October, is gradually reducing
imbalances in Turkey’s economy while creating a “healthier”
foundation for growth, Central bank Governor Erdem Basci wrote
in an article in the Turkish policy magazine Iktisat ve Toplum
in April.  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , the bank owned by  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Haci Omer
Sabanci Holding AS (SAHOL) , added 1.6 percent to 6.28 liras, gaining for
a second day. Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS advanced 0.9 percent to
6.64 liras, and  Turkiye Is Bankasi (ISATR)  AS climbed 1.4 percent to
4.33 liras.  Among non-financial companies,  Koc Holding AS (KCHOL) , the
country’s largest group of companies, jumped 1.9 percent to 6.56
liras.  Turk Telekomunikasyon AS (TTKOM) , Turkey’s largest landline
telephone company, gained 2.8 percent to 6.68 liras.  The impact of the upgrade on Turkish equities may be
limited given Turkey’s outperformance relative to peers in the
past two months, according to Ata Doganoglu, a trader at Ekspres
Invest in Istanbul. “We need investment grade for a long term
impact.”  “I think the global market will still set the tone and
give the direction here”  and “if there are signs for new
stimulus, we’ll perform better tomorrow,” Doganoglu said by e-
mail today.  Turkish stocks have gained 23 percent on a dollar basis
this year, compared with a 3.5 percent gain on the  MSCI Emerging
Markets (MXEF)  Index, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  