-- Turkish Air May Order Airbus or Boeing Jumbos Next Month
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-06-21T17:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/turkish-airlines-may-order-15-airbus-or-boeing-jumbos-next-month.html
Turk Hava Yollari AO, or Turkish
Airlines, will order at least 15 jumbo airliners valued at $4
billion from  Airbus SAS (EAD)  or  Boeing Co. (BA)  as early as next month as
it adds routes and seeks acquisitions in  emerging markets .  Europe ’s fifth-largest carrier plans to purchase Airbus
A380 or Boeing 747-8 planes for delivery after 2014, Chairman
Hamdi Topcu said in an interview in Istanbul.  Turkish Airlines is looking at jets bigger than Boeing’s
330-seat 777, currently the carrier’s largest model, as it seeks
to lure transfer traffic between Europe and  Asia  away from
rivals Air France-KLM Group,  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and British
Airways-parent  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA. (IAG)   “The price will determine the size of the purchase but it
should not be below 15 planes,” Topcu said at the company’s
headquarters near its Ataturk airport hub. “We are assessing
the purchase plan in the board of directors and will make a
decision on this in one month.”  Turkish Airlines (THYAO)  rose 5.2 percent to 3.03 liras in
Istanbul, its biggest gain since Feb. 2 and highest closing
price since last August. The stock has surged 43 percent this
year, valuing the company at 3.64 billion liras ($2 billion).  An order announcement may be timed to coincide with the
Farnborough International Air Show, the largest aerospace event
in the world this year, which runs for seven days from July 9,
Topcu said, or could come later in the month. Major aircraft
commitments are often revealed at expos as airlines and
manufacturers seek to showcase their orders.  No Split  Turkish Airlines, which aims to raise sales to $7.8 billion
this year from $7 billion in 2011, is assessing simulations of
both the A380 and 747-8, as well as the price, Topcu said,
adding that it won’t split the order between the two types.  The carrier currently has 39 long-haul jets, according to
its website, including 12 777s and 17 passenger-variant Airbus
A330s. It hasn’t ordered Boeing’s 787 or the Airbus A350, the
newest wide-bodies, and is unlikely to do so as it seeks larger
jets, Chief Executive Officer Temel Kotil has said.  The European manufacturer’s A380 superjumbo carries 525
people in three-cabin configuration or more than 800 in a single
coach class. Boeing’s 747-8 seats 467 in three-class mode.  Including single-aisle models,  Turkish Airlines  currently
has 179 jetliners in its fleet. That will increase to 200 by the
end of this year and 206 through 2013, when an expansion program
originally slated to end in 2015 will have been completed, Topcu
said. With that in mind, it’s planning a next sequence of orders
from 2014, with the total likely to reach at least 300 by 2023.  Neo, MAX  While the emphasis will be on adding bigger planes, the
carrier is also interested in the Airbus A320 Neo and Boeing 737
MAX narrow-bodies, the executive said. The airline plans to
supply crews for the expanded fleet by opening a flight school
to train 300 pilots, 200 of them for its own needs, Topcu said.  Turkey’s plans to build a third airport in Istanbul, for
which a tender process may begin in September, will help
determine fleet size, Topcu said.  The situation at Ataturk, Istanbul’s main airport, where
passenger numbers rose 17 percent last year to 37.5 million, may
also be eased by increasing the number of aircraft parking bays
by about 50 percent to around 150, he said. The hub is
controlled by  Aeroports de Paris  following its investment in
operator  TAV Havalimanlari Holding AS (TAVHL)  in March.  M&A Targets  Turkish Airlines is looking at about 10 takeover prospects
in  Africa , Asia and the  Middle East  as it seeks hubs in Africa
and Asia, Topcu said, adding that the cash and credit position
is “strong,” with no upper limit to the size of a deal.  Still, its European ambitions have been curbed, with talks
to buy Polish national carrier Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT SA
ending this month because of European Union rules limiting
outside ownership, Topcu said. The same applies to TAP SGPS SA,
which the  Portuguese government  is in the process of selling.  “The EU doesn’t allow us to have stake control or effective
management control,” he said. “Therefore we can’t buy.” Talks
on Turkey joining the bloc, which would allow its companies to
make full takeovers, are on hold while a rotating presidency is
held by Cyprus, whose government it doesn’t recognize.  In Europe, Turkish Airlines ranks behind only network
carriers  Air France-KLM Group (AF) , Deutsche Lufthansa AG and IAG --
parent of British Airways and  Spain ’s Iberia -- plus discount
leader Ryanair Holdings Plc in terms of traffic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  