-- Wachtell, Simpson, O’Melveny, McDermott, Cahill: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-06-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/wachtell-simpson-o-melveny-mcdermott-cahill-business-of-law.html
Walgreen Co. (WAG) , the biggest U.S.
drugstore chain, agreed to pay $6.7 billion for a 45 percent
stake in the U.K.’s Alliance Boots GmbH in an attempt to create
a global chain of pharmacies.  Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz LLP and Allen & Overy LLP
advised Walgreens. Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP and Darrois
Villey Maillot Brochier advised Alliance.  Wachtell’s team was led by corporate partners Andrew R. Brownstein and Benjamin M. Roth. Additional partners on the deal
included Michael J. Segal, executive compensation and benefits;
Eric M. Rosof, restructuring and finance; and Jodi J. Schwartz
and T. Eiko Stange, tax.  A&O’s team was led by partner Justin Steer in Amsterdam.
The following partners were also involved: Nicolaus Ascherfeld,
Richard Kim and Marc Feider, corporate; Norbert Wiederholt and
Ben Fox, banking; Sylvie Watts, incentives; Dana Burstow,
pensions; Jim Ford, IP&IT; Matt Townsend, environmental; Mark
Mansell, litigation-employment; Christopher Woolf, real estate;
Lydia Challen, tax; and Paul Glazener, competition.  A&O also said in a statement that they worked with
relationship firms, Baer Karrer AG in Switzerland, Hergüner
Bilgen Özeke in  Turkey , Schjødt in  Norway  and McCann Fitzgerald
in Ireland.  The Simpson Thacher team was led by corporate partner Mark
Pflug. Other partners on the team included Gary Horowitz,
mergers and acquisitions, Steven Todrys, tax, and Joe Tringali
and David Vann, antitrust.  Mergers and acquisitions lawyers Alain Maillot and Benjamin
Burman and competition lawyers Didier Theophile and Igor Simic,
from Darrois Villey also advised Alliance.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  is advising Goldman
Sachs, financial adviser to Walgreens. The Cleary Gottlieb team
was led by New York partner Ethan Klingsberg.  Walgreen will pay $4 billion cash and the remainder in
stock for its biggest deal, with an option to gain full control
in about three years, the companies said yesterday in a
statement. The stake is being acquired from a group led by  KKR &
Co. (KKR)  and Alliance Boots Chairman Stefano Pessina, who bought the
company in a 12.1 billion-pound ($19 billion) buyout five years
ago.  The combination gives Walgreen and Alliance Boots, the
U.K.’s largest drugstore-chain company, more than 11,000 stores
in 12 countries and 370 distribution centers to pharmacies,
doctors and hospitals. Walgreen will be able to expand into
 emerging markets  as well, Chief Executive Officer Gregory Wasson
said yesterday on a conference call.  Walgreen will have an option to buy the remaining 55
percent of Nottingham, England-based Alliance Boots in about
three years. KKR and Pessina will become shareholders in the
combined business. Pessina, an Italian billionaire, said on the
call he will own an 8 percent stake in Walgreen and doesn’t want
to take money out.  For more, click here.  KKR Agrees to Buy Hedge Fund Manager Prisma Capital Partners  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP represented KKR & Co., the
private-equity firm run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts ,
which agreed to buy Prisma Capital Partners LP, a fund-of-hedge-
funds manager, advised by Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP.  The Simpson Thacher team includes partners Gary Horowitz,
mergers and acquisitions; Jason Herman, funds; Steven Todrys and
Katharine Moir, tax; and Andrea Wahlquist, executive
compensation and employee benefits.  From Schulte, the partners were led by mergers and
acquisitions partners Andre Weiss and Christopher Harrison.
Philippe Benedict, on tax, Jennifer Dunn,  investment management ,
and Holly Weiss, employee benefits, also worked on the deal.  Prisma, which is based in New York and had $7.8 billion in
assets under management as of April 30, will continue to operate
under its own brand, KKR said in a statement June 18. Prisma
Chief Executive Officer Girish Reddy will head KKR’s global
hedge fund-of-funds business.  KKR and larger competitors  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  Carlyle
Group LP (CG)  have grown or purchased fund-of-funds units to broaden
beyond corporate leveraged buyouts. Kravis and Roberts, cousins
who started New York-based KKR in 1976 with Jerome Kohlberg,
also have branched into stock and bond underwriting,
infrastructure investing and real estate.  “Many institutional investors are seeking more liquid
alternative investment products, and we believe customized
hedge-fund solutions play a key role in meeting that need,”
Kravis said in today’s statement.  Reddy created Prisma in 2004 with fellow former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  partners Thomas Healey and Gavyn Davies. When
the deal is closed, probably by the fourth quarter, Healey and
Davies will become senior advisers to KKR. Prisma’s management
will reinvest the cash proceeds of the sale into Prisma funds,
according to the statement.  Prisma will operate as part of KKR’s public markets segment
that includes KKR Asset Management, which buys and sells
securities such as leveraged loans and high-yield bonds and
houses the firm’s first equity hedge fund, started last year by
Robert Howard, a former Goldman Sachs trader.  For more, click here.  News  News Corp.’s GC Gerson Zweifach Takes Over for Klein  News Corp. (NWSA)  executive Joel Klein stepped down as the head of
the company’s internal committee investigating phone hacking and
bribery, passing the role to General Counsel Gerson Zweifach.  The group, known as the Management and Standards Committee,
will now report directly to Zweifach, who joined News Corp. in
February. The change will let Klein return to his role as chief
executive officer of News Corp.’s education unit, according to a
statement June 18. The former Justice Department lawyer, who
joined News Corp. last year after serving as the chancellor of
New York schools, had been running the committee since news of
the hacking broke last July.  The management change was made at a board meeting last week
in Milan, according to an executive familiar with the matter who
asked not to be identified because the decision was private.
Klein had no longer been managing the committee on a day-to-day
basis in recent months and wanted to return to running the
education unit, according to the person. Klein had suggested
hiring Zweifach earlier this year, with the expectation that he
would eventually take over the internal committee, according to
another person with direct knowledge of the matter.  The internal committee has worked closely with London
police in its investigations of bribery and hacking by
journalists at News Corp.’s U.K. unit. The committee’s findings
have led to a number of arrests, including at least four people
last week, who have been accused of making or accepting illegal
payments for tabloid stories.  Zweifach, who had already served on the standards committee
since February, will now report the group’s findings to Viet Dinh, an independent director and chairman of the company’s
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. The  standards
committee  is currently chaired by Anthony Grabiner and includes
William Lewis and  Simon Greenberg  as full-time members. U.K. law
firm Linklaters LLP is legal adviser to the group.  Zweifach worked at Washington-based Williams & Connolly LLP
for almost three decades managing antitrust and libel cases
before joining the company in February. He succeeded  Lawrence Jacobs , who left in June 2011 to pursue other opportunities.  For more, click here.  Firm News  O’Melveny & Meyers to Open Seoul Office With New Hires  O’Melveny & Myers LLP will open an office in Seoul, South
Korea, with Korea practitioners Sungyong Kang and Jinwon Park,
who recently joined the firm.  Joseph Kim, a partner and head of O’Melveny’s Korea
practice, along with a number of U.S. lawyers at the firm, will
work closely with Kang and Park to integrate the new office with
O’Melveny’s global platform, once the Ministry of Justice
approves the firm’s application.  “Few firms can match O’Melveny’s dedication and success in
serving Korean companies,” Kim said. “The Seoul office will
allow us to continue our work as trusted advisors and provide
them seamless access to our global network of litigators and
transactional lawyers.”  O’Melveny has worked with major Korean corporations
including Asiana Airlines, for whom it secured the dismissal of
claims in In re Korean Air Lines Co., Ltd., which accused Asiana
and Korean Air Lines of price-fixing.  The firm has also represented Samsung in multiple patent
infringement claims brought by a Japanese competitor, Murata
Manufacturing Co., the firm said.  Kang and Park have had experience at both Korean and U.S.
law firms. Each of them has more than 20 years of experience
representing Korean and multinational clients on cross-border
investments, corporate transactions, mergers and acquisitions,
international trade, and international litigation and
arbitration, the firm said.  The Seoul office will be O’Melveny’s seventh in Asia. The
firm has about 130 legal professionals at locations in Shanghai,
 Hong Kong , Beijing, Singapore, Tokyo, and Jakarta (in an
association with Indonesian law firm Tumbuan & Partners).  O’Melveny has approximately 800 lawyers in 15 offices
worldwide.  Moves  McDermott Hires Transfer Pricing Team in Tax Practice Expansion  McDermott Will & Emery LLP hired a seven person team of tax
professional led by lawyers Cym H. Lowell and Mark R. Martin.
The lawyers bring a full-service transfer pricing team to
McDermott, based in two offices in Texas, which will focus on
designing and defending the allocation of income and expense in
cross-border transactions. They join the firm from Gardere Wynne
Sewell LLP, the firm said. Martin will serve as the head of
McDermott’s transfer pricing practice.  Martin, partner John T. Woodruff and an associate, will be
based in McDermott’s Houston office. Lowell and three
professional advisers, will practice out of a Dallas satellite
office.  Lowell works across a range of planning and controversy
matters for U.S. and foreign-based multinational companies as
well as wealthy individuals. He has handled transfer pricing
cases with proposed adjustments in the billions, structured
advance pricing agreements on a global basis and advised clients
on a range of international tax planning matters, the firm said.  Martin handles transfer pricing matters through unilateral
and bilateral processes, the firm said. His global practice
includes multinational energy, construction, and chemical
clients. Martin has particular specialization in resolving
critical transfer pricing issues through emerging dispute
resolution processes in the U.S. and other countries.  “Transfer pricing knowledge has become increasingly
important in Texas as  oil companies  and suppliers with
significant international operations seek to adapt with more tax
efficient structures,” Steven G. Spears, partner-in-charge of
McDermott’s Houston office said in a statement. “This group
provides us with a highly-branded tax practice and a strong
platform to build our tax capabilities in this very important
market.”  McDermott has more than 1,000 lawyers, with offices in the
U.S., Europe and a strategic alliance in Shanghai.  Shearman Deputy Litigation Group Leader Joins Cahill  Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP announced that Herbert S. Washer has joined the firm as a partner in the litigation
practice group. Washer joins the firm from Shearman & Sterling
LLP, where he served as the litigation group’s deputy practice
leader.  Washer has over two decades of experience representing
clients in a variety of securities and antitrust-related civil
litigation, as well as regulatory enforcement and criminal
matters, the firm said in a statement.  Cahill Gordon has about 300 lawyers in New York, Washington
and London.  Baker Botts Hires Environment Lawyer Cagle in Austin  Environment lawyer Molly Cagle has joined Baker Botts LLP
as a partner in the firm’s Austin office. Cagle was previously a
partner at Vinson & Elkins LLP.  Cagle litigates and negotiates settlements for clients
under the  Clean Water Act ,  Clean Air Act , Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act, and their state analogs, as well as the
Superfund statute. She counsels clients on audit issues, under
both the state audit law and federal policy. Cagle has
particular expertise in water issues, the firm said.  “Molly’s unparalleled experience in resolving disputes
over natural resources is a significant addition to our
environmental practice,” Steve Leifer, chair of the
environmental department at Baker Botts, said in a statement.  Baker Botts has 725 lawyers at 13 offices  North America ,
the Middle East, Europe and Asia.  Litigation  Asarco Seeks Pollution Accord Reversal, Cites Criminal Probe  Grupo Mexico SAB (GMEXICOB) ’s Asarco unit asked a U.S. judge to throw
out the $219.5 million settlement of its Omaha, Nebraska, lead-
contamination case, claiming the true source of the pollution
was concealed by a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency official
who is under criminal investigation.  Gregory Evans , of Integer Law Corporation and Asarco’s lead
lawyer, said the company was motivated to seek withdrawal of its
settlement over the Omaha pollution claims when it learned of
the criminal probe.  “We are confident the court will order EPA to return some
or all of the $219.5 million Asarco paid when it sees and hears
all of the evidence of EPA’s data manipulation, document
withholding and document destruction,” Evans said in an e-
mailed statement.  Asarco, which filed the largest environmental bankruptcy
case in U.S. history to resolve pollution at about 100 sites
nationwide, was misled into paying a “grossly inflated”
settlement amount to resolve an EPA claim that a company smelter
contaminated the Omaha site, Asarco attorneys said yesterday in
a filing in federal  bankruptcy court  in  Corpus Christi , Texas.  For the past year, Asarco has accused Robert Feild, the
EPA’s Omaha lead project coordinator, with leading an evidence-
destruction campaign that hid an agency study indicating the
Nebraska property was probably contaminated by lead paint
peeling from old houses rather than Asarco smelter emissions.  Asarco recently learned “that a criminal investigation is
being conducted by the U.S. Attorney’s Office and the EPA Office
of Inspector General relating to potential obstruction of
justice by Feild regarding Omaha Lead Site-related litigation,”
according to the filing.  Feild didn’t immediately reply to a voice-mail message
seeking comment on the filing.  Eileen McMahon of the EPA inspector general’s office said
she has read about the accusations concerning the Nebraska
official and under agency policy couldn’t confirm or deny the
existence of such a probe.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a Justice Department spokesman, declined to
comment on the filing in an e-mail.  The case is In re Asarco LLC, 05-21207,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of Texas (Corpus Christi).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 