-- Wal-Mart de Mexico Plunges After Cutting Expansion Plan
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-06-21T14:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/wal-mart-de-mexico-cuts-expansion-plan-amid-bribery-probe.html
Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB , the unit
under investigation for bribing Mexican officials to get stores
open faster, tumbled the most since May after cutting its
expansion plan for this year.  The shares fell 3.5 percent to 35.17 pesos at 9:04 a.m. in
 Mexico  City, after earlier declining as much as 5.5 percent, the
biggest intraday drop since May 31. The benchmark  IPC index  of
35 Mexican companies slipped 0.6 percent.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Mexico subsidiary will open between
325 and 335 locations in Mexico and Central America this year,
down 23 percent from its previous estimate of as many as 436,
according to a statement to the Mexican stock exchange
yesterday. The new steps required to open a store set back
development plans by 60 days to 90 days, Wal-Mart de Mexico
said.  “It’s bad news” and the delays are likely to hurt the
stock’s performance, Raul Ochoa, an analyst at Interacciones
Casa de Bolsa, said in a telephone interview yesterday from
Mexico City. “We’re talking about a whole quarter. That’s a lot
of lost sales days.”  Ochoa said he’s reviewing his buy recommendation.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. slashed its 2012 earnings estimate by
8.2 percent to 1.34 pesos per share after the announcement,
according to an e-mailed research note from analysts including
Andrea Teixeira, who has a neutral recommendation on the stock.  ‘More Uncertainty’  There’s “no indication of how long it may take for the
company to be out of the bribery investigation, which adds more
uncertainty,” the JPMorgan analysts said in the note. “If the
investigation drags on for long, the company will continue to
grow its sales area at a single-digit pace.”  JPMorgan now projects 8 percent growth in store sales space
in both 2012 and 2013, the note said.  In April, the world’s largest retailer confirmed it had
started a probe into its Mexican operations in response to
allegations that executives bribed officials to accelerate
expansion. The U.S.  Justice Department  and the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission are also investigating.  Officials at Wal-Mart Stores Inc. have been sued by a group
of New York pension funds for alleged mismanagement in failing
to prevent bribery.  Pension Funds  Investors including the New York City Employees’ Retirement
System, Police Pension Fund, Fire Department Pension Fund and
Board of Education Retirement System contend that company
officials were duty bound to control alleged “widespread
corruption” and a subsequent cover-up at Wal-Mart de Mexico,
according to a complaint filed on June 11 in Delaware Chancery
Court.  Last year, Walmex, as it is known, generated about 21
percent of Wal-Mart’s international sales growth.  More than half of the Mexican locations are relatively
small Bodegas Aurrera stores. Their success prompted Wal-Mart to
use them as the inspiration for new, small-format locations in
the U.S. and  Latin America .  In the past decade, Wal-Mart de Mexico expanded its stores
by an annual average of 37 percent, outpacing Mexico’s economic
annual growth average of 1.3 percent for the same period by 29
times.  Mexico may grow between 3.5 percent and 4 percent this
year, central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said yesterday.  In Mexico, Wal-Mart also put several retail concepts on one
patch of real estate. Configurations include a large discount
store, Sam’s Club, Suburbia apparel store and a Vips restaurant
all facing one parking lot.  Shares of Walmex, which is 69 percent owned by Bentonville,
Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, have dropped 19 percent since an April
21 report in The  New York  Times.  The changes for real-estate developments in Mexico seek to
“improve documentation,” Walmex spokesman Antonio Ocaranza
said in a telephone interview yesterday. He declined to comment
on the bribery investigations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  