-- Wells Fargo May Send Some Jobs to India, Philippines
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-06-21T01:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/wells-fargo-may-send-some-jobs-to-india-philippines.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the lender
looking to trim more than $1.7 billion in quarterly expenses by
the end of this year, may move some jobs overseas.  Roles in technology, the retirement division and other
business lines could shift to India and the Philippines as part
of a companywide review, Bridget Braxton, a spokeswoman for the
San Francisco-based bank, said yesterday. News 14 Carolina
reported a review for the retirement business earlier, citing an
internal memo from a Wells Fargo executive it didn’t name.  Wells Fargo announced plans in 2011 to cut expenses by $1.5
billion a quarter to about $11 billion at the end of 2012. Costs
rose in the first three months of the year to $13 billion, and
Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf  said expenses may hit the
high end of the range, or $11.3 billion.  “We are absolutely committed, but if we get to the fourth
quarter and if, for whatever reason, there is all kinds of
revenue available in a certain business -- or a number of
businesses -- we’re not going to be slavish to any one number,”
Stumpf said April 13 in response to an analyst’s question.  Wells Fargo declined 15 cents to $32.81 in  New York 
trading. The shares have gained  19 percent  this year.  Braxton, who declined to make the memo available, said it
alerted employees that the bank was undergoing “an assessment”
of the idea. She wouldn’t say how many jobs may be moved.  Bank Workforce  The bank had 264,900 full-time employees at the end of
March. Stumpf said on Jan. 17 that 98 percent of the workforce
is in the U.S. The lender employs 3,000 people in India and
another 240 in the  Philippines , Braxton said.  The lender employs 49,000 workers in  California , including
8,300 in  San Francisco , according to Alan Elias, a spokesman.  Wells Fargo said that it planned a “streamlining” of some
operations, including “where possible, locating functions in
the most cost-effective locations,” according to a July 19
presentation. That may mean moving some functions to different
locations in the U.S. as well as abroad, Braxton said.  “Our customers are international, demand round-the-clock
service and expect faster turnaround for decisions and
responses,” Braxton said in an e-mailed statement. “Global
expansion of our workforce allows us to do these processes
faster, with more flexibility.”  ‘Growing Need’  Wells Fargo has had employees in  India  since 2006 when it
opened a so-called technology resource center in Hyderabad. The
bank cited a “growing need” for talent that couldn’t be met by
U.S. workers, according to an August 2006 statement. The move
wasn’t made to cut costs, Wells Fargo said at the time.  The company started a Philippines-based unit in November,
Braxton said. Many jobs in the Philippines are “customer-
service” roles, while those in India involve technology
functions as well as functions for many business lines across
the bank, she said.  Overseas jobs “offer the opportunity to use Wells Fargo-
owned and operated offshore capabilities at significantly
reduced costs, while at the same time leveraging our existing
technology infrastructure and security standards,” the bank
said in the retirement-division memo, according to News 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 