-- What’s So Special About the Euro Currency Area?
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-06-20T22:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/what-s-so-special-about-the-euro-currency-area-.html
Now that the Greek election failed
to solve anything, Europe is back to the same problems it faced
before.  Not the ones predating Sunday’s election, which resulted in
the formation of a coalition government of  Greece ’s pro-Europe
parties. But the difficulties that existed before 11 sovereign
nations scrapped their currencies and adopted the euro on Jan.
1, 1999, with the goal of bringing peace and prosperity to the
continent. The idea of one monetary policy for all was
unworkable then, and it’s unworkable now, primarily because the
countries never had a mechanism for dealing with a crisis.  I’ve lost count already of all the  crises  within a crisis
since Greece first revealed the true state of its finances
almost three years ago. All the summits, one-on-one meetings,
academic research and unsolicited advice haven’t done anything
to fix the underlying structural problem. Seventeen different
countries with 17 sovereign governments, 17 unique cultures and
at least 17 languages are ill-suited for a monetary union.  Robert Mundell , the father of the euro, clearly thought
differently. He won the  Nobel Prize  in Economic Sciences in 1999
for “his analysis of monetary and fiscal policy under different
exchange rate regimes and his analysis of optimum currency
areas.”  Labor Immobility  Even by Mundell’s standards, the European Monetary Union
looks suboptimal. Although the euro area can boast of a single
currency, a single central bank committed to  price stability 
(too committed, some say) and free trade among its members, it
lacks labor mobility, mechanisms for fiscal transfers in the
case of shocks to individual countries, and a common federal
fiscal policy. With the minuses offsetting the plusses, one
wonders why he was so keen on the idea. Mundell was traveling
and didn’t respond to my e-mail inquiry.  Even some randomly selected groupings produce a  better fit 
than the countries using the euro, according to Michael Cembalest, chief investment officer at JPMorgan Chase Bank.
There is far greater harmony among “the 12 countries on Earth
located at the latitude of the 5th parallel (north)” and “the
13 countries on Earth whose names start with the letter ‘M,”’
he says in a recent report.  Given the dissimilarities, “Europeans suspended belief”
to embark on a currency union, says Michael Bordo, a professor
of economics at  Rutgers University  in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey .
“They wanted to move to the free mobility of labor and goods,
in which case they would not need  fiscal federalism .” For
example, if a shock to one country causes wages to fall, in
theory workers move to higher-wage countries while capital flows
back to the low-wage nation. “It’s an equilibrating
mechanism,” Bordo says.  In the real world, German capital flowed south. The
peripheral countries, blessed with unnaturally low  interest
rates , went on a borrowing and spending spree, which pushed up
relative wages and prices and made them less competitive. The
common currency prevented the necessary adjustment through
devaluation. The common man didn’t want to leave his country of
origin. And the common burden fell on  Germany .  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  wants greater fiscal
integration for the euro area. If only everyone could be more
like Germany, everything would be fine!  I can understand why Germany would like to dictate fiscal
policy to profligate spenders, such as Greece. What about the
obligations that go with it? A fiscal union would include a
mechanism for fiscal transfers, such as those between the 50
U.S. states and  Washington . For the foreseeable future, those
transfers will be going from Germany to the peripheral
countries.  Political Ideal  “It’s a temporal problem,” says Dino Kos, a managing
director at Hamiltonian Associates Ltd., an economic research
and advisory firm in New York. “Germany is talking about what
system to put in place for the long run, when the economy is in
a steady state, countries are converged and markets are calm.”  Ah, now it makes sense, unless it’s all a game of chicken.  Solving the crisis is, well, a problem for the countries in
crisis. Although 25 of the European Union’s 27 members (the U.K.
and the  Czech Republic  were holdouts) signed a fiscal compact in
January to enforce budget discipline, it will be years before
the countries’ legislatures ratify it. So that’s a non-solution
for the current debt, banking and economic mess.  And each “solution” -- the 100 billion euros ($127
billion) for  Spain ’s banks last week, a favorable Greek election
outcome this week -- produces shorter and shallower relief
rallies in financial markets. In fact,  European stock markets 
shot up at the start of trading on June 18, then immediately
headed down.  If European nations weren’t willing to sacrifice
sovereignty when the countries were more or less on an equal
footing -- having met the  criteria  outlined in the 1992
Maastricht Treaty on debt, deficits and inflation -- it’s hard
to see them taking the plunge now. Decisions made under duress
tend to be short-term fixes, not long-term solutions. Which is
why things will probably sputter along for a good while longer.  The real problem, of course, is that the euro area was
always a political ideal designed to constrain Germany’s
imperialist tendencies and prevent World War III. To a certain
extent, the economic justifications were just that, nothing
more.  Throw in the fact that Europeans don’t want to relinquish
their sovereignty and become a  United States  of  Europe , and it’s
clear why Europe is in such a muddle.  How will it end? Badly -- and unfortunately not anytime
soon.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View.  Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Operation Fast and Furious 
and on why the  Fed needs to be more aggressive ;  Michael Kinsley 
on our love-hate  relationship with leaks ;  Ezra Klein  on the news
media’s dreadful  horse-race coverage;  Carl Pope on  renewable
energy in emerging markets .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 