-- Ecuador's Correa `Seriously' Reviewing Assange Asylum
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2012-06-21T12:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/wikileaks-founder-turns-to-chavez-ally-ecuador-for-asylum.html
(Corrects story from June 20 to say Assange faces
questioning, not trial, in  Sweden .)  Julian Assange sought asylum in
Ecuador’s Embassy in  London  yesterday to avoid what he says are
U.S. efforts to punish him for releasing diplomatic secrets
through his WikiLeaks website.  Ecuador is studying the request and is in contact with the
U.K. government, the Andean country’s Foreign Minister Ricardo Patino told reporters in a brief statement in Quito. Assange
entered the embassy in the Knightsbridge area of London after
exhausting options in U.K. courts to avert extradition to
Sweden, where he faces questioning on allegations of rape and
sexual molestation.  The move threatens to widen the breach between Ecuador, a
member of the Venezuelan-led group of nations known as ALBA, and
the U.S., just as Ecuador seeks renewal of trade benefits due to
expire next year. The Andean country may grant Assange asylum to
spite the U.S., prioritizing political gains over strategic
interests, said  Christopher Sabatini , senior policy director of
the Council of the Americas.  “These governments of the ALBA alliance will do anything
to try and humiliate the U.S. to try to score a cheap point,”
Sabatini said in a phone interview from  New York  yesterday.  Breached Bail  Assange, detained in Britain 18 months ago after Sweden
issued a European arrest warrant, breached the terms of his bail
by staying at the Ecuadorian Embassy and may be arrested again,
the  Metropolitan Police Service  said today in an e-mailed
statement.  “It seems to me he’s put Ecuador in quite a difficult
situation,” according to Peter Watson, a lawyer with  Allen &
Overy  in London who isn’t involved in the case. “Seeking
political asylum following an open public trial and appeal to
the highest court in the land is essentially saying the U.K.
court system stinks.”  In a statement lasting less than six minutes yesterday,
Patino said Ecuador’s decision will be based on international
law and the country’s policy of protecting human rights, calling
the issue delicate. He didn’t accept questions.  Patino read extracts of a letter from Assange in which he
said his home country of  Australia  had “effectively abandoned”
him and is “ignoring the obligation to protect its citizen, who
is persecuted politically.”  Assange says Sweden fabricated the arrest warrant to assist
the U.S. in paying him back for breaching its security.  Swedish Charges  Assange is accused of raping one women and of sexually
molesting and unlawful coercion against a second, Claes
Borgstrom, the lawyer representing the two women, said in an e-
mailed response to questions today.  “I am not surprised that Assange once again is trying to
stop the extradition but I could never have guessed his method
this time,” Borgstrom wrote. “I am convinced that it will be
only a delay, Assange will sooner or later be extradited to
Sweden.”  Ecuador ’s President  Rafael Correa , who is friends with
 Venezuela ’s leader  Hugo Chavez , is an outspoken critic of  U.S.
foreign policy . His Foreign Ministry offered Assange residency
following the 2010 publication of U.S. government cables before
rescinding the invitation.  Still, the Andean nation may hesitate to grant Assange
asylum to avoid damaging its commercial relationship with the
world’s largest economy, Risa Grais-Targow, an analyst at
political risk research company Eurasia Group, said yesterday.  U.S. Response  “It would depend on what they gauge the U.S. response will
be and whether it will actually have repercussions,” Grais-
Targow said by telephone from  Washington . “Ecuador needs the
U.S. a lot more than the U.S. needs Ecuador.”  Assange lost his bid this month to have the U.K.’s top
court reconsider a decision that would allow him to be
extradited to Sweden. The court rejected his argument that the
Swedish prosecutor who investigated the sex-assault claims
wasn’t authorized to issue a European arrest warrant.  Assange would have to leave the embassy if his asylum
request is rejected, Douglas McNabb, senior principal at
international criminal defense law firm McNabb Associates PC,
said by telephone from Washington yesterday. If Ecuador accepts
the request, it probably would be able to escort him to the
airport for a flight to  Quito , he said.  ‘Great Move’  “It’s a great move from a legal perspective,” said
McNabb, who isn’t representing Assange or the governments in the
case. “For him to be on the embassy grounds now, and for the
Foreign Ministry to say he’s applied and we’re considering it,
there must be something there that leads Assange to believe that
it will be granted.”  Assange’s lawyer Dinah Rose wasn’t available to comment
when her office was contacted by Bloomberg News yesterday
evening. The office of Gareth Peirce, another lawyer for
Assange, said it wasn’t offering comments to the press.  Assange, arrested in London in December 2010, may still
appeal to the  European Court  of  Human Rights . The U.K. Supreme
Court stayed extradition proceedings until the end of June to
allow him to seek a final appeal at the Strasbourg, France-based
tribunal.  “As Mr. Assange is in the Ecuadorean Embassy, he’s on
diplomatic territory, and beyond the reach of the police,” the
U.K. Foreign Office said in a statement late yesterday. “We
will seek to work with the Ecuadorean authorities to resolve the
situation as soon as possible.”  Gillard Comments  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  told reporters in
 Mexico  where she was attending a meeting of the G-20 that
Australia had given Assange “consular assistance at every
stage” and that it would continue to help him “as we do any
Australian abroad facing difficulty.”  Jay Raman, press attache at the U.S. Embassy in Quito, said
Assange’s request was an issue for the U.K., Sweden and Ecuador.  The allegations against Assange became public around the
same time he posted the leaked cables on the Internet, which
raised questions about the Obama administration’s handling of
classified information. Former Alaska Governor and Republican
vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin said the government
should have done more to block publication of the cables.  In April, Assange hosted a television show, “The World
Tomorrow with Julian Assange,” that included an interview with
Ecuador’s 49-year-old president in which they talked about their
shared criticism of the press.  Correa, who regularly spars with journalists over critical
coverage, has led a crackdown on the nation’s press over what he
calls bias in the media.  During the conversation, Correa laughed and told an
unshaven Assange, “Cheer up, welcome to the club of the
persecuted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 