-- Suu Kyi to Address Parliament in Historic Visit to U.K.
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-06-21T13:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/myanmar-s-suu-kyi-to-meet-cameron-address-u-k-s-parliament.html
Myanmar opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi will meet U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and address
Parliament in London today during her first visit to Britain
since 1988.  Suu Kyi, who was kept under house arrest for 15 of the past
20 years by Myanmar’s military government, became a lawmaker in
her country last month, a sign that it is opening up after
decades of dictatorship. Her decision to travel is another such
indication. For years she refused, even in 1999 when her
husband, Michael, was dying in  England , fearing that if she left
Myanmar she wouldn’t be allowed to return.  Cameron visited Suu Kyi in Myanmar in April and announced
moves to lift sanctions on the Southeast Asian nation. The U.K.
premier has proposed that aid to the country should be linked to
democratic development and that a commission should establish
guidelines for investing there, according to his office.  “What we want to achieve is that path to democracy,”
Cameron told reporters at a joint press conference in  London 
with Suu Kyi today. “That means encouraging them on the road to
reform.”  Cameron pledged 3 million pounds ($4.7 million) in aid for
Myanmar and has invited its president, Thein Sein, to visit the
U.K. later this year. Suu Kyi said she supported this move. “We
don’t want to be shackle by the past,” she said. She asked for
help building Myanmar’s civil service.  Further Reform  Myanmar’s political opening over the past year has put the
nation back on the map for investors. In addition to the EU’s
suspension of sanctions, the U.S. said last month it will lift
economic and financial restrictions on certain sectors of
Myanmar’s economy and  Japan  forgave about $3.7 billion of debt.  The invitation to address both houses of Britain’s
legislature is an honor that’s normally reserved for heads of
state or government, such as  Barack Obama  in May 2011. The only
other woman to have done so is  Queen Elizabeth II . Suu Kyi
speaks at 3 p.m. in the 11th-century Westminster Hall, the
oldest part of the Parliament complex. Earlier she met the heir
to the British throne, Prince Charles and his wife, Camilla, the
Duchess of Cornwall, at the couple’s London residence.  Oxford Honor  Yesterday, Suu Kyi received an honorary doctorate from
Oxford University in advanced civil law. She had lived in
England in the 1980s with her husband, Tibetan scholar Michael Aris, and two sons, returning to Myanmar in 1988 when her mother
fell ill. She became involved in uprisings against the
authorities and was placed under house arrest the following
year.  In 1990, the military rejected an election victory by Suu
Kyi’s National League for Democracy party in which it won about
80 percent of seats for a committee to draft a new constitution.
Suu Kyi, a Nobel Peace Prize winner known in Myanmar simply as
“The Lady,” was detained during both that vote and elections
in 2010.  Since taking office in March 2011,  Thein Sein  has freed
political prisoners, sought peace deals with ethnic armies,
dismantled a fixed  exchange rate  that distorted government
revenue and halted the construction of a $3.6 billion Chinese-
backed hydropower project in response to criticism  China  was
exploiting Burmese resources. He also met with Suu Kyi and
convinced her party to rejoin the political process after
boycotting the 2010 elections.  Her party is pushing to change the current constitution,
which guarantees the military a quarter of parliamentary seats.  On June 19 Suu Kyi visited the British Broadcasting Corp.,
thanking its World Service radio channel for “keeping her in
touch” during her years of house arrest. During the visit she
met she met former Radio 1 disc jockey Dave Lee Travis, known as
the “Hairy Cornflake,” whose show she said she enjoyed while a
prisoner.  Asked by journalists today about her struggle for
democracy, Suu Kyi played down her own hardships. “I don’t
think I’ve made any sacrifices,” she said. “The only thing I
feel I’m sacrificing here in Britain is sleep.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  