-- Yoko Ono Exhibits Hairy Bottoms, Issues Orders in London
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-06-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/yoko-ono-exhibits-hairy-bottoms-issues-orders-in-london.html
Yoko Ono  is a famous person: artist,
author, composer, widow of  John Lennon  and a star.  Her exhibition “To the Light,” at the  Serpentine Gallery 
in London, will probably attract far more visitors than you
might expect for a mini-retrospective by a 79-year-old pioneer
of conceptual art.  Why? Ono isn’t a very important artist and the Serpentine
show is slight. On the other hand, she can’t be denied her place
in history. The day in 1966 when Ono met Lennon the link between
popular music and the artistic avant-garde was made. She became
a rock performer and he turned into a collaborator in her
performances and films. Since then many others, from  David Bowie 
to Lady Gaga, have blended pop and cutting-edge art.  On June 19, she held a public conversation with the art
critic Waldemar Januszczak at the Serpentine Pavilion. As Ono
sat under the canopy designed by  Herzog, de Meuron  and Ai Weiwei, her charisma and grace were on display.  It was easy to see what made her one of the emblematic
personalities of a certain time, let’s call it the age of the
Beatles. If you love that period, you probably love her too.  Step inside the exhibition, however, and there’s much less
on show. Elusive is a good word to describe her art. There are a
few celebrated sights, such as the moving images of naked male
and female posteriors -- some hairy, some smooth -- walking on
the spot (“Film No. 4 (Bottoms),” 1967), and Ono and Lennon in
bed together (“Bed In,” 1969).  Green Granny  Another looks intriguingly familiar. “Apple” (1966) is a
green apple sitting on a plastic plinth. Two years later,
probably not coincidentally, the Beatles founded Apple Records,
with a green Granny Smith as its logo.  Ono’s art is more about words and actions than objects and
images. As Ono told Januszczak, she has never really made
things; she is a conceptual artist. A lot of her work consists
of instructions. Take “Footsteps I”: “Walk through the museum
with a map of the room. Rubber stamp the map with where your
feet carried you. Send the map of your footsteps to a friend.”  The various versions of “A Box of Smile,” (1967), consist
of receptacles containing a mirror. “Look in the box and tell
yourself, it’s not so bad. You’re still alive.”  What does that remind you of? How about Paul Wilson’s
“Little Book of Calm”? “When you’re feeling under pressure,
do something different. Roll up your sleeves or eat an orange.”  Conceptual Riddles  The resemblance isn’t accidental. Wilson is a teacher of
meditation, drawing on the traditions of yoga and Buddhism. I
suspect Ono’s sensibility has a lot to do with the koans of Zen
Buddhism: questions or statements leading to enlightenment
(“What is the sound of one hand clapping?”)  If you don’t share Ono’s view of things, you’ll probably
find her art merely whimsical and/or naive. After all, the
rational response to, for example, her faded poster that reads
“War Is Over (if you want it)” (1969-2012) would be “in
practice, international conflict is a bit more complicated than
that,” wouldn’t it?  There’s an echo, of course, in “Imagine there’s no
countries/ It isn’t hard to do/Nothing to kill or die for.”  Through her influence on Lennon, Ono has had a much broader
impact than any other conceptual artist. That’s quite a thought.  “To the Light” is at the Serpentine Gallery,  London ,
through Sept. 9. Information:  http://www.serpentinegallery.org/ .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn’s  reports on the art
market,  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford, in London, at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 