-- La Nina Weather Pattern ‘Is Dead,’ World’s Forecasters Say
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-03-27T09:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/la-nina-weather-pattern-is-dead-world-s-forecasters-say-2-.html
The 2011-2012 La Nina that parched
Argentina and Brazil and brought rains to Southeast  Asia  has
ended, according to  Australia ’s Bureau of Meteorology, adding to
assessments from Indonesia to Britain that the event has passed.  So-called key ocean and atmospheric indicators have
returned to neutral, and those conditions may persist until at
least early winter in the country, the Australian  bureau  said in
a statement today. The event peaked in January, the bureau said.  The patterns influence weather worldwide, with this year’s
event helping to drive soybeans to the highest level in six
months as drought parched crops in South America, curbing yields.
The current La Nina has peaked and may start to fade, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said last month.  “If we get a return back to normal conditions, we can
probably expect a rebound back to trend, or at least closer to
trend, in  South America ,” Victor Thianpiriya, an analyst at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said by phone.  A La Nina, indicated by a cooling of surface water in the
 Pacific Ocean , occurs on average every three to five years and
usually lasts nine to 12 months, the U.S. National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration has said. It sometimes occurs in
back-to-back years, as happened this year and last. Its reverse
is known as an El Nino, which can parch parts of Asia.  ‘La Nina Is Dead’  “We would concur that La Nina is dead,” Jim Dale, senior
risk meteorologist at British Weather Services, which provides
weather-related risk analysis, said by e-mail today. “El Nino
is a slowly rising possibility, but it normally takes more than
one year from the death of his sister. So, for now, it’s a case
of neutral zone, and very much ‘normal’ climate features.”  Soybean futures on the Chicago Board of Trade have rallied
15 percent this year and reached $13.885 a bushel yesterday, the
highest level since September. The May-delivery contract traded
0.5 percent higher at $13.87 at 5:15 p.m. in Singapore.  “La Nina started to weaken from late 2011, and this month
would be the end of the weather pattern,” Endro Santoso, head
of climate information at  Indonesia ’s Meteorology, Climatology
and Geophysics Agency, said from Jakarta today. “We will
experience normal weather from April until September. There
won’t be any effect from La Nina or El Nino during the period.”  Indonesia is the world’s largest producer of  palm oil ,
which competes with  soybean oil  for use in foods and fuels. Palm
oil on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange reached 3,497 ringgit
($1,144) a metric ton today, the highest level in a year.  Drought-Induced Losses  Palm oil may gain to 4,000 ringgit by June,  Dorab Mistry ,
director at Godrej International Ltd., said in a speech in
Beijing today, reiterating earlier forecasts for a rally. The La
Nina-induced drought in southern  Brazil  has reduced the soybean
crop in some districts to just half of its potential, he said.  The La Nina was “going away,” Brad Rippey, a
meteorologist with the USDA, said during a presentation at the
department’s annual forum in Arlington,  Virginia  last month. The
absence of La Nina may curb rainfall and bring drought
conditions to the northern U.S. Great Plains, Rippey said.  “The likelihood of a third, successive La Nina remains
low,” said Andrew Watkins, manager of climate prediction
services at the Australian bureau. “Approximately 70 percent of
La Nina events that have returned for a second year are followed
by neutral or El Nino conditions.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jake Lloyd-
Smith at   jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  