-- Ackman Rail Plan Attacked by Canadian Pacific as Flawed
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-03-27T20:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/ackman-rail-plan-attacked-by-canadian-pacific-as-flawed-data-2-.html
William Ackman ’s pick to lead
 Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  would drive customers away if he
employs the tactics he used to boost profitability at larger
rival  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR) , the smaller carrier said.  Canadian Pacific Chief Executive Officer Fred Green, the
man Ackman wants to replace with retired  Canadian National  CEO
 Hunter Harrison , said Harrison’s policies damaged some customer
relationships and the company he led is now trying to “de-
Hunter” itself.  “What the shipper community is telling me, is the thought
of imposing what they experienced for that period of time when
Mr. Harrison led CN upon this franchise is not a welcome
thought,” Green said at an investor meeting today in Toronto.
“And they will vote with their market share.”  Green, 55, used the meeting to contrast his own strategy
for boosting  Canadian Pacific  shareholder returns with what he
calls defects in the proposal by Ackman, the railroad’s largest
investor. The Calgary-based company is seeking support after a
poll showed most stockholders want change and support Ackman’s
proxy fight to change the railroad’s top management.  Ackman has promoted Harrison as a turnaround architect by
citing the retired CEO’s record at Canadian National, which he
ran for seven years through 2009. Harrison, 67, cut the
operating ratio, a gauge of operating expenses to sales, to 67.3
percent from 76 percent when he took over.  ‘Competing Hard’  “Under Hunter’s leadership, CN had a better service record
than CP,” Ackman said in an e-mailed statement,’’ Ackman said
in an e-mailed statement. “Under Fred Green’s leadership, CP
lost market share to CN. As Mr. Green reminds us, customers vote
with their feet. Hunter looks forward to competing hard for and
earning customers’ business.”  Harrison didn’t immediately respond to messages seeking
comment.  Canadian Pacific’s Green pledged today to lower his
company’s operating ratio to a range of 68.5 percent to 70.5
percent in 2016 from 78.5 percent in 2011’s fourth quarter.
Harrison has proposed cutting the figure to 65 percent by 2015,
a rate of improvement that Canadian Pacific says hasn’t been
achieved by any of  North America ’s largest railroads.  That’s “a shot in the dark,” Ed Harris, a Canadian
Pacific director who worked at Canadian National with Harrison,
said in an interview today.  ‘Plain, Flat Wrong’  Oliver Wyman , a railroad consultant commissioned by
Canadian Pacific’s board to study differences between the
company and Canadian National, reported finding about 560
operating-ratio basis points of structural differences between
the two companies. That may mean Harrison’s improvement at
Canadian National can’t be replicated at its smaller competitor.  “Virtually every statement made by Mr. Harrison about this
franchise has been just plain, flat wrong,” Green said at the
investor meeting. “Without ever having stepped foot on the
property, without understanding the curves and grades, to make
those type of statements, is bold, but it’s not based on fact.”  The competitive information that Harrison and Ackman’s
Pershing Square Capital Management LP provided to support their
contentions “is flawed and incorrect,” Green said in an
interview before the meeting.  Canadian Pacific’s rate of  freight sales growth  per
revenue-ton mile, a gauge of railway shipment volume, has been
higher than Canadian National’s since 2005, Green said today. He
said Pershing’s analysis of the figure was flawed because it
used total revenue, which includes non-rail related sales.  Expense Comparison  Green also rebutted Pershing’s claim that Canadian
Pacific’s operating expenses have exceeded its rival’s, noting
that operating costs per revenue-ton mile, excluding pension
expenses, are comparable with Canadian National’s.  “I don’t mind criticism, but I do think that it’s
reasonable to ask that it’s based on facts,” Green said during
the meeting.  A poll disclosed this month by Toronto-based research firm
Brendan Wood International indicates 73 percent of shareholders
favor Ackman’s proposal to install Harrison.  Canadian Pacific fell 1.3 percent to C$77.90 at the close
in Toronto. The shares have climbed 27 percent since Oct. 27,
the day before  Pershing Square  disclosed its stake.  The railway’s Dakota, Minnesota & Eastern unit will double
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
this year, meeting Canadian Pacific’s goal of accomplishing that
within five years of buying the business in 2008, the company
said.  Buying DM&E, which extended the company’s reach in the U.S.
and added volume growth in products such as ethanol, “exceeded
our expectations,” Green said.  Ackman has called the $1.48 billion purchase a “blunder.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  