-- Madoff Trustee’s Settlement With Picower Is Upheld by Court
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-03-27T01:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/madoff-trustee-s-settlement-with-picower-is-upheld-by-court-1-.html
A federal judge upheld a $5 billion
settlement between the trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s
former firm and the estate of Jeffry Picower, one of the con
man’s biggest individual investors.  U.S. District Judge  John Koeltl , considering an appeal from
bankruptcy court decisions, affirmed the settlement and ruled
that the bankruptcy judge was right to bar suits against the
Picower estate.  “The Bankruptcy Court was correct in approving the
settlement with the Picower defendants that was extraordinarily
beneficial to the BLMIS estate,” Koeltl said in an opinion
today, referring to Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC.  The ruling is a loss for Adele Fox and Susanne Marshall,
two investors in Madoff’s Ponzi scheme who sued the Picower
estate and a group of related defendants in federal court in
 Florida . Fox and Marshall, who sought to sue on behalf of a
class of other Madoff investors, claimed Picower was a co-
conspirator in the fraud.  Nolan Shanahan, a laywer for Fox, declined to say whether
his client will appeal today’s ruling. Helen Chaitman, who
represents Marshall, said she will appeal.  Picower, who began investing with Madoff in the late 1970s,
had a heart attack and drowned in his swimming pool in Palm
Beach, Florida, in 2009 at age 67. Madoff, 74, pleaded guilty to
running the biggest Ponzi scheme in history and is serving a
150-year sentence in federal prison in North Carolina.  In December 2010, Picower’s widow,  Barbara Picower , agreed
to a settlement in which the estate would pay $5 billion to be
returned to Madoff investors through the Madoff bankruptcy
estate. The agreement called for an additional $2.2 billion to
be forfeited to the U.S. government.  The case is In Re Bernard L. Madoff, 10-cv-4652, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  