-- Affymax Wins Approval of Drug for Anemic Kidney Patients
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-03-27T20:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/affymax-wins-approval-of-drug-for-anemic-kidney-patients-1-.html
Affymax Inc. (AFFY)  won U.S. approval for
Omontys, a competitor to  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ’s anemia treatments that
have been the only options for patients with loss of kidney
function for more than 20 years.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared Omontys, known as
peginesatide, for patients with chronic  kidney disease  on
dialysis, the agency said today in a  statement . The drug will be
 Palo Alto , California-based Affymax’s first marketed product.  “There has been and continues to be a lot of interest
across the board from dialysis providers,” John Orwin, chief
executive officer for Affymax, said in a telephone interview.  Approval of the drug -- intended to be used once a month
instead of as often as three times a week for Amgen’s Epogen --
may save money for Medicare, the U.S. health program for the
elderly and disabled. Peginesatide may generate as much as $700
million in peak sales by 2017, Ian Somaiya, an analyst at Piper
Jaffray & Co. in  New York , said in a telephone interview.  Affymax gained 4.2 percent to $14.31 at the close in New
York. The company’s shares have gained 135 percent in the past
12 months.  “We’re dealing with a monopoly right now and that’s not
ideal because it’s occurred for two decades,” Somaiya said of
Epogen. “Small and medium dialysis centers are price sensitive.
Peginesatide would be the choice for these dialysis providers.”  Dialysis removes toxins from the blood when kidneys can’t.  Drug Tryout  Orwin anticipates that large dialysis providers may try out
Omontys in some centers before agreeing to use it in every
facility.  Fresenius Medical Care AG (FME) , the largest dialysis
provider by annual revenue, participated in final-phase clinical
trials and is involved in continuing studies, making it easier
to access the medicine’s performance, he said.  Amgen’s Epogen, approved in 1989, generated $2 billion in
sales last year, a decrease of 19 percent from 2010, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Peginesatide may compete to a
lesser extent with  Thousand Oaks , California-based Amgen’s
Aranesp, which is primarily used on nondialysis kidney patients.
Aranesp had $2.3 billion in sales last year.  Amgen, the world’s largest biotechnology company, has deals
with  DaVita Inc. (DVA)  of Denver, the largest U.S. dialysis provider,
and Fresenius, based in  Bad Homburg ,  Germany . The deal with
DaVita is exclusive and for seven years, while Fresenius’s
agreement isn’t exclusive and is for an undisclosed amount of
years.  JNJ’s Procrit Agreement  Johnson & Johnson’s Procrit, the same drug as Epogen, is
used only in patients who aren’t undergoing dialysis under an
agreement between the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based drugmaker
and Amgen, Somaiya said.  Affymax has a profit-sharing agreement for peginesatide
with Osaka, Japan-based  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502)   Medicare spent $6.8 billion on dialysis and drugs for
 kidney failure  patients in 2007, according to a March 2010
report from the U.S.  Government Accountability Office , the
investigative arm of Congress. Medicare, which covers almost
everyone with kidney failure regardless of age, began
reimbursing for such services in one bundled payment last year
to save money.  The medicines are part of a class of drugs known as
erythropoiesis-stimulating agents that boost production of red
blood cells. The FDA recommended in June that doctors use the
lowest possible doses of the agents because of potential heart
risks. The agency in 2006 first warned that high doses of the
anemia drugs may cause heart attacks and strokes.  Omontys will be available within four weeks, Orwin said,
and the company expects to have a sales force of as many as 80
people hired within 30 days to 60 days.  The company may support another product and may look again
to kidney diseases, he said.  “There remains a significant unmet need in the renal
space,” Orwin said. “At some point we could consider other
specialty areas when we’ve exhausted that space.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  