-- Afren Sees More Companies Entering Kenya After Tullow’s Find
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-03-27T16:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/afren-expects-more-companies-to-enter-kenya-after-tullow-s-find.html
Afren Plc (AFR) , a U.K. explorer focused
on Africa and the  Middle East , said  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) ’s discovery
in Kenya will spur the arrival of international oil companies in
the East African nation.  Tullow made its first oil find in Kenya with its Ngamia-1
well and said today it expects to find more crude with continued
drilling. That discovery “de-risks” further exploration in the
region and will prompt companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  to assess expansion
in Kenya, said Afren Chief Executive Officer Osman Shahenshah.  “It is extremely helpful, we are next door in  Block 10A 
operated by Tullow” to be drilled later this year, Shahenshah
said in an interview. “A few years ago when we went into East
Africa people thought that we are crazy and it’s turning out to
be a very successful province for a number of companies.”  Exploration companies such as Tullow,  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC)  and Ophir Energy Plc have ventured into East Africa,
starting a “gold rush,” as Simon Lockett, the CEO of  Premier
Oil Plc (PMO) , which has interests in the region, described it.  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and Eni yesterday announced more natural-gas
discoveries off Tanzania and Mozambique, bolstering the area’s
status as one of the world’s largest resource holders.  ‘Massive Upside’  Tullow plans to start drilling the Paipai-1 well at Block
10A in the second quarter, where resources “could be in excess
of a couple of 100 million barrels of oil equivalent,” Angus McCoss, the company’s exploration director, said Jan. 18.  Separately, Afren said today it plans to pump 100,000
barrels of oil equivalent a day in 2017, up from the 42,000 to
46,000 barrels a day expected this year. It will invest from
$450 million to $500 million in projects this year, mostly
funded by the company’s cash flow.  “We’ve got a billion barrels of reserves and resources and
3.5 billion of perspective resources,” Shahenshah said today by
phone. “There is a massive upside already within the company,”
and the production target is “easily achievable.”  Afren  rose  3.4 percent to 135.5 pence by the London close.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  