-- AIJ’s Asakawa Says He Falsified Fund Performance Reports
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2012-03-27T09:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/aij-s-asakawa-plans-to-return-funds-after-apologizing-for-losses.html
AIJ Investment Advisors Co. 
President Kazuhiko Asakawa said he ordered the falsification of
fund performance reports in the hope the Japanese asset manager
could recoup losses that may be more than $1 billion.  Admitting for the first time that AIJ had disguised losses,
Asakawa told a Japanese parliamentary committee that he can’t
explain how investor funds will be repaid. He apologized to
clients and the securities investment community.  The losses have prompted the review of 265 asset managers
nationwide, and last week AIJ’s offices were raided and its
registration revoked. Securities regulators say Asakawa and
Shigeko Takahashi, another director, conspired to conceal
trading losses to attract pension funds, a scandal that has
weakened confidence in corporate governance after camera maker
Olympus Corp. admitted last year to a 13-year cover-up of losses.  “I was the one who ordered to fabricate the reports and Ms.
Takahashi was the one that created the reports,” Asakawa told
the committee, making his first appearance following the firm’s
suspension in February. “I wanted to recoup the losses I made.
My duty now is to return the funds as much as possible to my
clients.”  Lawmakers called for further questioning of Asakawa in
front of the country’s Diet, saying today’s answers weren’t
sufficient. Asakawa had initially declined a request to appear
before the parliamentary committee.  Smaller Pensions  The firm oversaw 145.8 billion yen ($1.8 billion) of
clients’ money and lost 109.2 billion yen from derivatives
trades directed by Asakawa over nine years, the Securities and
Exchange Surveillance Commission said last week. AIJ’s clients
included 92 pension funds, according to the SESC. Most were
small to mid-sized Japanese  retirement plans  that strived to
close funding gaps created by low bond yields and two decades of
slumping stocks.  Regulators on March 23 searched AIJ’s Tokyo headquarters
and withdrew its registration. They also ordered brokerage ITM
Securities Co. to halt business for six months for allegedly
selling the funds with the knowledge that reports of their value
were false.  Asakawa had an annual salary of 70 million yen, while
Takahashi was paid about 36 million yen a year, he said, adding
the pay was based on the fund’s actual earnings and not inflated
numbers.  ITM Founder Apologizes  Hideaki Nishimura, founder of ITM, also apologized before
lawmakers for the scandal, adding that his firm had limited
information on AIJ. Nishimura will cooperate with regulators and
considers himself a victim, although his firm was responsible
for marketing the funds, he said. Asakawa said the false reports
were passed on to ITM.  Nishimura said he never doubted the numbers given by AIJ
because the net asset value provided by the asset manager and
that from HSBC Holdings Plc matched. Bank of  Bermuda , a unit of
HSBC, was listed as the fund administrator in an undated 13-page
document in Japanese obtained by Bloomberg News. Margrit Chang,
a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for HSBC, declined to comment.  The SESC said last week it may seek a criminal probe into
AIJ. Convictions following any criminal proceedings would
involve a maximum three years in prison or a fine of as much as
3 million yen, or both, the SESC said in a statement last week.  Asakawa, a former Nomura Holdings Inc. manager, steered
AIJ’s derivatives trading, which centered on Nikkei 225 options
and  Japanese government bond  futures, the SESC said last week.
Wrong-way bets on bond interest rates fueled the losses, while
some of the instruments were traded through an unidentified
brokerage firm in  Singapore , the SESC findings showed. There are
no hidden funds overseas, Asakawa said today.  Trust Banks  Isao Ishiyama, a former employee of the Social Insurance
Agency who recommended AIJ’s investments to pension clients, was
among those summoned to speak before the lower house financial
committee to discuss AIJ’s losses. Ishiyama, who set up his own
consulting firm, Tokyo Pension Research Institute, said he
didn’t doubt the firm’s numbers and that he also was a victim.  Takashi Nonaka, chairman of the Trust Companies Association
of  Japan  and Mizuho Trust & Banking Co. chief executive officer,
summoned by the committee to explain trust banks’ involvement
with AIJ, said the bank didn’t see any discrepancies with what
was presented by the brokerage.  The industry is considering how trust banks, who oversee
money from pension managers, will be able to get more
information on the asset values of the investments, Nonaka said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  