-- Airwaves Sharing Proposed Between U.S., Wireless Industry
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-03-27T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/airwaves-sharing-proposed-between-u-s-wireless-industry.html
U.S. government agencies could
share airwaves with commercial wireless companies to help the
mobile providers meet surging demand from smartphones, an Obama
administration official said.  “Spectrum is a finite resource in growing demand, and we
need to focus on new ways to maximize its use,” Lawrence Strickling, administrator of the  National Telecommunications and
Information Administration , a Commerce Department arm that
advises the White House on airwaves use, said in a conference
call.  The Obama administration is working to free airwaves to
avert what officials have called a “spectrum crunch” that
would occur as wireless networks’ capacity fails to meet demand
from data-hungry smartphones and tablet computers such as Apple
Inc.’s iPhone and iPad.  The administration has set a goal of adding 500 megahertz
of airwaves to almost double the amount available for commercial
use. Strickling’s announcement concerned an airwaves band with
95 megahertz, on which more than 20 U.S. agencies including each
branch of the military conduct operations on more than 3,100
frequencies. Uses include military radio, air-combat training
control systems and precision-munitions guidance, the
information administration said in an e-mailed statement.  Government users in some cases would switch to other
frequencies, and some federal and commercial users would share
them, Strickling said. He proposed discussions between U.S.
agencies and industry.  CTIA-The Wireless Association, in a  March 22 letter  to
Strickling, asked him to “swiftly reallocate” the band for use
by mobile broadband, or high-speed wireless  Internet service .
The Washington-based trade group’s members include leading U.S.
wireless provider Verizon Wireless, No. 2  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)  and T-Mobile USA Inc.  Congress last month approved auctions of unused television
airwaves for use by wireless services, another step aimed at
alleviating the spectrum shortage. The Federal Communications
Commission is working to devise auction rules.  The CTIA last week asked the FCC to complete the auction by
early 2014 and to turn airwaves over to wireless companies by
May of that year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  