-- Hamburg Harbor Hub Status Boosted as Elbe Dredge Nears: Freight
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-03-27T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/hamburg-harbor-hub-status-boosted-as-elbe-dredge-nears-freight.html
Hamburg,  Europe ’s second-largest
container port, is poised for a rise in cargo volumes in coming
years after one of the final hurdles to the ninth major river
dredging in the port’s 1,000-year history was surmounted.  The deepening of the Elbe River’s navigation channel to
allow bigger ships, delayed for years over environmental,
agricultural and safety concerns, was approved by the German
state of Schleswig-Holstein on March 13. Hamburg and the
European Commission have already given a go-ahead to the
project; only the state of  Lower Saxony  still has to approve it.  The dredging would be good news for  Hamburger Hafen und
Logistik AG , which handles more than two-thirds of the
containers in Hamburg. A deeper Elbe would allow ships to carry
more containers when they call at Hamburg’s port, helping
increase Asian cargo volumes, and make vessels less dependent on
the tide. That would lower costs and increase profit margins.  “The dredging is important in the long term so that
Hamburg can remain a hub for the big ships coming from  Asia , and
for the competiveness of Hamburg,” Oliver Drebing, an analyst
at Srh Alsterresearch AG in Hamburg, said in a phone interview.
It is “good for HHLA’s profitability and will have a positive
effect on its margins.”  Drebing said he had “no doubt” that a compromise will be
found to ensure the safety of riverbank levees and protect Lower
Saxony fruit growers, issues that have troubled state leaders.
About 150,000 people in the Hamburg metropolitan area, which
includes parts of Lower Saxony to the south and Schleswig-
Holstein to the north, rely on the port for employment,
according to the  city’s website .  ‘Buy’ Rating  Hamburger Hafen shares , which have gained 8.4 percent in
 Frankfurt  trading so far this year, climbed 3.4 percent on March
13 after Schleswig-Holstein approved the dredging. They closed
at 25.7 euros ($34.27) on March 27. Drebing, who has a buy
rating and a share-price estimate of 40 euros on HHLA shares,
says he probably will increase that if Lower Saxony approves the
dredging project.  Depth-related shipping delays cost HHLA 25 million euros
every year, Christian Cohrs, an analyst at M.M. Warburg & Co. in
Hamburg, wrote in a note on March 22.  Hamburger Hafen spokesman Mark Kruempel declined to comment
on how the dredging of the Elbe would affect the company and
when it estimates that the project will begin. HHLA plans to
report earnings for 2011 and an outlook for 2012 on March 30.  Hamburg,  Germany ’s second-largest city, has been a merchant
hub for about  1,000  years. Once a member of the Hanseatic
League, it is home to  Hapag-Lloyd AG (HPL) , the world’s fifth-largest
container shipping company, and Hamburg Sued, No. 12. Hamburg
regained its position as Europe’s second-biggest container port
last year, after Rotterdam, as trade with Asia and the countries
around the Baltic Sea helped it overtake Antwerp.  Volume Increase  The city of Hamburg forecasts that container volumes in its
port may triple to about 25 million standard containers by 2025.
The increase will be helped by a deeper Elbe, a new container
terminal at Steinwerder and planned investments in the city’s
and the port’s infrastructure, according to Jens Meier, the
chief executive officer of the Hamburg Port Authority.  Dredging the Elbe will allow ships with a maximum draught
of 14.5 meters (47.5 feet), or most of the vessels with capacity
of 10,000 standard containers, to navigate the Elbe at high
tide, compared to the current maximum draught of 13.5 meters.
The world’s largest  container ships , which can carry 18,000
boxes, still won’t be able to call at Hamburg at full capacity.  A failure to dredge the river may cause Hamburg to lose
cargo to Rotterdam or the new German deep-sea container port
being constructed in Wilhelmshaven, each of which can handle the
world’s largest container ships at full capacity.  European Hub  “The deepening of the Elbe is essential for Hamburg to
remain one of the hubs in Europe,” said Max Johns, one of the
three directors of the Hamburg-based VDR shipping association,
which represents German shipping companies including Hapag-Lloyd
and Hamburg Sued.  The size of container ships has more than doubled over the
past decade, according to Paris-based  Alphaliner , a shipping-
industry consultant.  The fleet of container ships larger than 8,000 standard
boxes will grow 27 percent this year, 21.8 percent in 2013 and
11.5 percent in 2014, based on current orders, Neil Dekker, head
of container research at London marine consultancy Drewry
Shipping Consultants Ltd., said in an e-mail on March 23.  Other Seaports  “The dredging is important to keep up with the other
leading seaports,” said Rico Luman, an economist at ING Groep
NV in Amsterdam. It is also needed to “avoid missing future
opportunities,” to aid cargo development and to strengthen
Hamburg’s position as a hub for the  Baltic Sea  countries and
 Russia , he said.  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , owner of the world’s largest
container line, forecasts that global demand for seaborne
containers  will grow  as much as 6 percent this year. The
containers arriving at European ports from countries east of the
 Suez Canal  probably will grow almost 40 percent to 20 million
standard boxes between 2011 and 2021, according to London-based
 Box Trade Intelligence , which monitors 20 global trade lanes.  While Europe’s sovereign debt crisis may threaten that
growth, obstacles also remain for Hamburg to dredge its river.
Even if Lower Saxony agrees to the project, local people still
have a right to challenge the plan in court.  Saltwater and Fruit  Warburg’s Cohrs, who rates HHLA sell and has a 12-month
price estimate of 21 euros, forecasts that the deepening of the
Elbe will be delayed until the summer of 2013, partly because of
the time needed for legal proceedings.  Lower Saxony , whose leaders are concerned that a deeper
river and larger ships may threaten levees and release more
saltwater into the Elbe, damaging fruit crops on its shores, has
not yet made a decision, state spokeswoman Silke Schaar said.
While the official deadline passes March 31, the state may
require more time to reach a decision, she said.  “The most important thing is that Lower Saxony approves
the deal,” Stefan Kick, an analyst at Silvia Quandt Research
GmbH in Frankfurt, said in a phone interview. “The question of
the dredging of the River Elbe is very important for Hamburger
Hafen und Logistik because they need to get bigger container
ships into the harbor and be able to handle them without having
to rely on the tide.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  