-- America Movil Dominance Ruling Upheld by Antitrust Agency
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-03-27T21:02:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/america-movil-dominance-ruling-upheld-by-antitrust-agency-2-.html
Billionaire Carlos Slim’s  America
Movil (AMXL)  SAB is dominant in  Mexico ’s market for completing mobile-
phone calls, the nation’s antitrust agency ruled, rejecting an
appeal by the wireless carrier.  The unanimous decision, a summary of which was posted by
the Federal Competition Commission on its  website  today, lets
regulators proceed with rules to target the company’s prices and
call quality. The Federal Telecommunications Commission approved
regulations last week to govern  America Movil ’s Telefonos de
Mexico unit after a similar ruling on wholesale lines.  Mexico’s government is seeking to reduce America Movil’s
70 percent share of the country’s mobile-phone market. Last
year, the telecommunications commission cut by more than half
the fees Mexico City-based America Movil can charge to complete
incoming calls to its users.  The competition commission in its ruling today also
overturned a decision last year finding  Grupo Iusacell SA (CEL*) 
dominant for completing wireless calls on its own network. A
finding that  Telefonica SA (TEF)  is dominant in the same market was
partially reversed, applying to only some of the company’s
units, the agency said.  The decisions mean the government won’t be able to apply
specific rules to Telefonica and Iusacell, the antitrust agency
said in a statement. The vote was 3-2 on the Telefonica decision
and 4-1 on Iusacell, the commission said.  Telefonica, based in Madrid, has 21 percent of Mexico’s
mobile-phone market, while closely held Iusacell has about
5 percent.  A Telefonica official who asked not to be named because of
company policy declined to comment. Officials of America Movil
and Mexico City-based Iusacell had no immediate comment.  America Movil rose 0.2 percent to 15.66 pesos in Mexico
City. Telefonica fell 0.8 percent to 12.48 euros in  Madrid .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  