-- AMR’s American Seeks Court Approval to Void Union Contracts
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-03-27T21:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/amr-s-american-seeks-court-approval-to-void-union-contracts-1-.html
AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines , the
third-largest U.S. airline, asked a bankruptcy judge to let it
void labor contracts with union workers after failing to reach
agreements on $1.25 billion in annual cost reductions.  American began  negotiations  shortly after outlining plans
for 13,000 job cuts and other concessions on Feb. 1. The airline
says it needs the savings to help stem monthly losses, along
with other contract changes that it says will add $1 billion a
year in revenue.  “With losses mounting and  oil prices  rising, there is
growing urgency to move more quickly,” American Chief Executive
Officer  Tom Horton  told employees in a letter today.  The request filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan 
seeks to reject collective-bargaining agreements with the Allied
Pilots Association, the Association of Professional Flight
Attendants and the Transport Workers Union.  “I don’t see how they have a choice,”  Anthony Sabino , an
attorney and professor at St. John’s University in Queens,  New
York , said about the move. “They’ve been negotiating a long
time, and the unions are sticking to their guns. This is the
next step.”  Rejecting the contracts may put American at risk of
takeover attempts as suitors offer workers less-drastic terms.  US Airways  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  already has met with advisers for
some members of AMR’s unsecured creditors’ committee, people
familiar with the matter have said. The panel, which includes
three unions, has a voice in major decisions made by the company
in bankruptcy.  TPG Capital and Delta Air Lines Inc. also are assessing
possible bids for AMR, people with knowledge of the matter have
said.  Failure to reach consensual agreements on the airline’s
concession plans echoes American’s inability to negotiate new
contracts in talks that began as far back as 2006 with the
unions. The unions represent nine work groups at the carrier.  A company in bankruptcy can seek to reject labor contracts
to cut costs if it can’t reach a consensual deal with unions.
Bargaining can continue even after today’s filing.  The unions said they would fight American’s plan to void
the contracts.  Laura Glading , president of the flight
attendants’ union, accused American of “overreaching” and said
the union will use “every available resource” to preserve
wages and benefits, according to a statement.  ‘Draconian Demands’  “The company can succeed only if it convinces the judge
that the contract changes it seeks are necessary, fair and
equitable,” she said. “In reality, its Draconian demands are
none of those things.”  Tom Hoban, spokesman for the  Allied Pilots Association ,
accused American of a “complete failure” to commit to the
collective-bargaining process.  “It’s pretty clear the intent is to steamroll the pilots
and the other groups too,” he said. “The agenda is to cram
this down our throats.”  The Transport Workers Union told members that it’s ready to
defend its contracts and challenge American’s rejection effort,
according to a statement on its website.  “Our negotiators are still at the table in Dallas trying to
work out an agreement with AMR,” said  Jim Little , international
president of the TWU.  The motion filed today doesn’t cover workers at American
Eagle, AMR’s regional carrier.  Facing Risks  Both sides face risks if the request to reject the
contracts leads to a prolonged battle in court, said Sabino, who
predicted American and its unions will reach a deal.  “Both sides are pointing a loaded gun at each other,” he
said. “They realize the risks and once they realize that they
could bump each other off, they’re going to lower their weapons,
and they’re going to make a deal.”  AMR, based in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , filed for Chapter 11
protection in November after annual losses that began in 2008,
making it the last of the U.S. industry’s full-service carriers
to seek to restructure in bankruptcy.  Labor was the biggest chunk of $2 billion in proposed
expense cuts in the Feb. 1 plan, which would eliminate the jobs
of about 18 percent of American’s 73,800 employees.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  