-- Lamy Urges Rational WTO Talk About Impact of Currencies on Trade
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-03-27T13:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/lamy-urges-rational-wto-talk-about-impact-of-currencies-on-trade.html
World Trade Organization Director-
General Pascal Lamy urged governments examining how fluctuating
currencies affect trade to have a “rational, fact-based
discussion” on what he called a “highly sensitive subject.”  Lamy made the remarks as governments, international groups,
academics and the private sector gathered in Geneva today for a
meeting examining  exchange-rate  misalignments and their impact
on trade. The two-day symposium was organized at the request of
Brazil, which along with the U.S. and Europe says China keeps
the yuan undervalued to boost  exports  and lower unemployment.  “I appreciate the uncertainty associated with some erratic
movements of exchange rates can be not only a source of
frustration, but also of asymmetric costs, which can distort
international competition,” Lamy said. “This seminar is to
examine the subject in a rational way, and avoid finger-pointing
and frustration, which can only influence ill-designed trade-
policy responses.”  Measures to underpin growth through low  interest rates  and
higher liquidity have driven investors to seek higher returns in
emerging markets such as  Brazil , driving up the value of their
currencies. Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  pledged earlier
this month to take all necessary steps to shield Latin America’s
biggest economy from what she dubbed a “monetary tsunami”
unleashed by rich nations seeking to devalue their currencies.  U.S. Trade Gap  A faster increase in the yuan’s value would cut the  U.S.
trade deficit  with China in half by the end of 2014, according
to a Bloomberg Government Study. The trade gap with China, which
widened to $295 billion last year, is the largest the U.S. has
ever had with any country.  Chinese President Hu Jintao told President Barack Obama
yesterday that while even a “large” appreciation of the yuan
won’t solve the  U.S. trade deficit  and jobless rate -- now at
8.3 percent -- China will allow a more flexible exchange rate by
letting “the market play a greater role,” according to a
statement on the Foreign Ministry’s website.  The People’s Bank of China set the yuan’s  reference rate  at
6.2840 per dollar today, the strongest level since the nation
ended a dollar peg in July 2005 and 0.48 percent higher than
yesterday’s closing price of 6.3140. The currency is allowed to
move as much as 0.5 percent on either side of the fixing.  U.S. Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat who leads the
Finance Committee, and Republican Representative  Dave Camp  of
Michigan, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said
in a Jan. 31  letter  to Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
and U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  that the WTO seminar
should be used to “address distortive currency practices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 