-- Manchester City Takes Bids for Dzeko, Mail Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-03-27T10:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/manchester-city-takes-bids-for-dzeko-mail-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Dzeko Exit?  Manchester City  is willing to take offers for Edin Dzeko
despite spending 27 million pounds ($43 million) for the striker
before the start of the season,  the Daily Mail said .  Juventus and Real  Madrid  may be interested in signing the
26-year-old, who is upset that he’s not playing much for City,
the newspaper said.  Juventus has 30 million pounds to spend after the season,
and wants to get a striker to compete with AC Milan’s Zlatan
Ibrahimovic, the newspaper said.  Real manager  Jose Mourinho  thinks the former Wolfsburg
player will thrive in Madrid, which may lose Gonzalo Higuain to
Juventus, the Mail said.  Arsenal to Boost Midfield  Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger is targeting France and
Rennes player Yann M’Vila and Anderlecht captain Lucas Biglia on
the transfer market this summer as he tries to strengthen the
club’s midfield, the  Daily Telegraph  reported.  Foster in Tug of War  Championship side Birmingham City won’t sell goalkeeper  Ben Foster  to West Bromwich, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Foster is on a season-long loan contract at West Bromwich
after Birmingham was relegated to the Championship. Birmingham
won’t let go of Foster because they may need his services in
case they get back into the Premier League.  Drogba’s Joke Falls Flat  Chelsea striker Didier Drogba could face angry Benfica fans
during the clubs’ Champions League quarterfinal match tonight
after the Ivory Coast player was filmed “mocking” the club by
Chelsea TV, the  Sun  reported.  Drogba was shown “quaking with fear” when the draw was
made for the  Champions League , the paper said.  “Any response to Drogba we will give on the field,” the
paper quoted Benfica coach Jorge Jesus as saying. “Who knows
what he was thinking, maybe he was joking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports
desk on   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  