-- Anglo Sees Coal Prices Curbed by U.S. Exports, Renewables
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-03-28T08:56:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/anglo-sees-2012-coal-prices-curbed-by-u-s-exports-renewables.html
Power-station coal prices may not
rise much above $100 a metric ton on average this year, said the
head of thermal coal at  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , which operates the
Cerrejon mine with  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Xstrata Plc. (XTA)   “Prices are around $103, and they’re under pressure,”
Norman Mbazima said in an interview in Johannesburg yesterday.
“But we are starting to see some support at that level, so I’d
expect that we shouldn’t end up below $100 for the year. It’s
not great, but it’s still profitable for us.”  Anglo is considering digging the New Largo and Elders mines
in  South Africa  and looking at a second phase expansion at
Cerrejon mine in Colombia with its partners as it bets on higher
demand for the power-plant fuel. The London-based company is
also seeking coal acquisitions in countries including  Colombia ,
Indonesia and Mozambique.  While coal prices are likely to improve next year, they
probably won’t return to the levels seen in 2011, Mbazima said.
Coal shipped through South Africa’s Richards Bay Coal Terminal,
the largest export harbor for the fuel in the country where
Anglo has most of its mines, climbed as high as $128.62 a ton in
January last year, according to Hampshire-based IHS McCloskey
data on Bloomberg. They’ve fallen by a fifth since then.  Gas Supplies  “There’s a lot of issues that will keep holding it down,”
Mbazima said. These include supplies of gas and shale gas,
especially in the U.S., which would result in continued exports
from that country, affecting prices on international markets, he
said. European demand will probably remain “flat,” he said,
partly because of the use of renewable energy.  Sustained increases in demand are expected in India and
 China  “and to some extent in Japan to replace some of the lost
nuclear capacity,” he said. “Those markets are going to be the
ones holding up the prices above the $100.”  Anglo retreated 2.3 percent to 2,387 pence by 9:44 a.m. in
 London , heading for the lowest closing level since Dec. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  