-- Arab Spring Turns to Economic Winter on More Joblessness
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-03-28T11:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/arab-spring-turns-to-economic-winter-on-more-joblessness.html
Amir Mohammed has been sleeping
outside the Libyan Embassy in Cairo awaiting a visa for a week,
his bed a layer of cardboard on the sidewalk. He has given up on
finding a job in  Egypt  and is looking for a way out.  “I’m trying to just eke out an existence in my own
country, but I can’t,” the 30-year-old hairdresser said.
“There’s no work. Why did we have a revolution? We wanted
better  living standards , social justice and freedom. Instead,
we’re suffering.”  The world’s  highest youth jobless rate  left the  Middle East 
vulnerable to the uprisings that ousted Egypt’s  Hosni Mubarak 
and three other leaders in the past year. It has got worse since
then. About 1 million Egyptians lost their jobs in 2011 as the
economy shrank for the first time in  decades . Unemployment in
Tunisia, where the revolts began, climbed above 18 percent, the
central bank said in January. It was 13 percent in 2010,
International Monetary Fund data show.  Finding work for people like Mohammed will be the biggest
challenge for newly elected governments, highlighting the rift
between soaring expectations unleashed by the revolts and the
reality of economies struggling to escape recession. Failure
risks another wave of unrest in a region that holds  more than
half the world’s oil .  ‘High Hopes’  “The advent of democracy brought with it high, high
hopes,” said Raza Agha, London-based senior economist at the
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “Expectations are that new
governments will bring prosperity, but when you look at the
fundamentals, this does not appear to be the case.”  Tunisia ’s gross domestic product shrank 1.8 percent last
year, and the government this month lowered its growth forecast
for 2012 by one percentage point to 3.5 percent. Tunisia’s
economy hasn’t contracted since 1986, according to IMF data.  Egypt’s economy shrank 0.8 percent in 2011. The government
pays almost 16 percent for one-year borrowing in pounds, up from
less than 11 percent at the end of 2010, after four ratings cuts
by Moody’s Investors Service effectively shut the country out of
international debt markets. While the  benchmark stock index  has
rebounded this year, it’s still almost a third below pre-revolt
levels. The EGX 30 Index declined 6.6 percent this month.  The Egyptian Co. for Mobile Services, or Mobinil, the
country’s second-largest and oldest mobile phone operator,
posted its  first loss for more than a decade  last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as customers cut
spending. Profit at  Talaat Moustafa Group Holding (TMGH) , Egypt’s
biggest publicly traded real-estate developer, dropped 39
percent.  ‘Extremely Difficult’  “Egypt needs growth, needs jobs, needs tourists and needs
investment,” said  Simon Williams , chief economist at HSBC
Middle East. “This is an extremely difficult set of economic
challenges for anyone to manage, let alone a newly-elected post-
revolutionary government facing high expectations.”  Labor unions, which helped precipitate the overthrow of
Mubarak and Tunisia’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, are pushing
successor governments to improve conditions and wages. The
result in both countries has been a surge in strikes as tourism
and investment decline.  Egyptians and Tunisians expecting more jobs a year from now
outnumber those predicting a decline by almost four to one,
according to a Middle East survey released this month by  YouGov
Plc (YOU)  and Bayt.com, a Dubai-based employment website. The only
places with comparable levels of confidence were  Qatar  and Saudi
Arabia, respectively the world’s richest country and its biggest
oil exporter.  No Quick Fix  Public expectations pose “a communication challenge more
than anything else,” said Ann Wyman, managing director at
Tunis-based investment bank Maxula Bourse. “We know in economic
terms you can’t solve unemployment that quickly.”  The task of meeting those expectations is falling to
Islamist politicians. The Ennahdha party heads a coalition in
Tunisia, after campaigning on promises to create 590,000 jobs by
2016 in the country of about 10 million.  Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood dominates the first post-Mubarak
parliament, where its party and allies hold almost half the
seats. The group has promised to create jobs by directing more
investment than the previous government toward industry,
agriculture and information technology. It also proposed linking
industrial subsidies to  job creation .  The generals who took over from Mubarak say they’ll hand
power to civilians after a presidential vote due to conclude in
June.  As Egypt’s finance minister, one of four men to hold the
post since unrest began, Samir Radwan was planning to create
jobs through infrastructure investments backed by a $3.2 billion
IMF loan. He lost his job in a July reshuffle.  IMF U-Turn  Radwan still backs the policy, saying in a March 9
interview that spending should begin “immediately” and that
renewed unrest is a risk if the demands for “freedom and social
justice” that sparked the rebellion aren’t met soon.  Opposition to IMF loans among Egypt’s ruling generals
evaporated along with Egypt’s foreign currency reserves, which
have dropped more than half in the past year as the central bank
shored up the pound. At $15.7 billion, they now cover little
more than three months of imports. Egypt needs $11 billion in
financing in two years, according to the current finance
minister, Momtaz El-Saieed, who has invited an IMF delegation
for talks.  Tunisia is seeking $5 billion this year to cover a balance
of payments deficit that may reach 7 percent of GDP, Central
Bank Governor Mustapha Kamel Nabli said in a Jan. 27 interview
in Davos,  Switzerland .  Trade Curbs  To create jobs for their young populations, Arab economies
need to integrate, according to an Oxford University study
published in December by Adeel Malik and Bassem Awadallah, a
former Jordanian finance minister. It highlights restrictions on
the movement of investment, goods and people across borders.  The result, in an Arab world with a population of 350
million, is “insignificant” levels of internal trade and
regional markets that are “cut off from each other and from the
rest of the world,” they wrote. It can be cheaper for a
Jordanian company to import from the U.K. than from nearby
Lebanon, while “visa requirements for traveling within the
region can sometimes be as cumbersome as the journey itself.”  Hisham Ahmed, 25, said he submitted a passport to the
Libyan Embassy in Cairo on Feb. 2 and came to pick up his visa
24 days later as instructed. On March 5, he was still camped
outside the building, along with dozens of others. Like
Mohammed, the hairdresser, he sleeps on a piece of cardboard.
Many of them have worked in  Libya  before.  Gulf Job Plans  Libya is struggling to recover from its own revolt, which
ended in the killing of  Muammar Qaddafi  in October after eight
months of fighting. The eastern region, which has most of the
country’s oil, is seeking self-rule, raising tensions with the
central interim government. Even before the uprising,
 unemployment was 26 percent , according to the IMF.  Oil-rich Persian Gulf nations such as  Saudi Arabia  and the
 United Arab Emirates  are also seeking to create jobs as a safety
valve against protests.  About 27 percent of Saudis between the age of 20 and 30
were unemployed in 2009.  King Abdullah  announced a $130 billion
spending plan last year. The government is encouraging companies
to hire locals, limiting opportunities for Arabs from poorer
nations such as Egypt and Tunisia.  Not everybody in those countries is looking abroad for
jobs. Mohamed Wahid, 24, co-founded a company in Egypt that runs
errands for people, sparing them the clogged  traffic . Wahid said
in an interview that he expanded his workforce last year to 300
and plans to hire another 1,200 people by 2015.  ‘Hard Time Delivering’  “People shouldn’t be afraid to jump in and to expand their
business and make more profits to employ more people,” he said.
“If everyone gets scared, the economy will collapse. It’s
unlikely that foreign investments will flow in the way we want
them to soon, so we have to have Egyptian investments.”  Tunisian investment bank  Maxula Bourse  has set up a fund to
develop the interior region. That’s where protests against Ben
Ali began when Mohamed Bouazizi, who sold fruit and vegetables
on a street to support his family, set himself on fire.  More than a year since his death, and just three months
after taking office, Tunisia’s Islamist-led government may
already be vulnerable to rivals over the economy and jobs,
Maxula’s Wyman said. Another parliamentary election is due after
the current assembly writes a constitution.  “For parties trying to beat Ennahdha, that may be the
playing field they aim for,” she said. “Ennahdha will have a
hard time delivering.”  ‘No Change’  That’s not a comforting outlook for Egypt’s Muslim
Brotherhood as it prepares to take a wider role in government.
Parliament is pressing for the military-appointed Cabinet of
Prime Minister Kamal El-Ganzouri to be replaced by an
administration led by elected politicians.  Whoever takes office will have to win back people like
Mohammed, Ahmed and the others camped outside the Libyan Embassy
trying to flee Egypt. Poverty and unemployment have clouded
their view of the revolution they supported.  “There is no change,” said Mohammed. “We want to feel
that we have rights in our own country. Who feels that way?” he
asked, looking at the men gathered around him. Most replied:
“No one!”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  