-- Harvard Dropout Thrives as Turkey E-Commerce Lures Amazon
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-03-27T22:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/harvard-dropout-thrives-as-turkey-e-commerce-lures-amazon-tech.html
In a former belt factory on the
outskirts of Istanbul, Sina Afra and his 500 employees are
building what the German-raised Turk says will be the country’s
first billion-dollar e-trade company.  Afra’s Markafoni, the second most-visited members-only
 shopping network  in the world, is a frontrunner in an industry
that grew almost 60 percent in Turkey last year and has
attracted investment from  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , Amazon.com Inc., Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers,  Naspers Ltd. (NPN)  and Tiger Global.  His main competitor is Harvard Business School dropout
Demet Mutlu. Her  Trendyol.com  reached $100 million in revenue
less than 18 months after going online. Both are representative
of a crop of young Turkish entrepreneurs who are returning from
abroad to lead a transformation of their country, with its
China-like economic growth, from a low-cost manufacturer on the
fringes of  Europe  to digital dynamo.  “All the trends are pointing in the right direction in
Turkey,” Aileen Lee, a partner at  Kleiner Perkins (ZZISK) , which
together with Tiger Global invested $50 million in Trendyol.com,
said in a phone interview from Menlo Park,  California . The
venture capital firm counts  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  and  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  among
its progeny.  “You have a young society that’s really social and has
really embraced the social web and mobile,” Lee said. “At the
same time, the retail infrastructure has not been built out, so
there’s a real opportunity to leapfrog the typical bricks-and-
mortar retail commerce.”  Online Shopping  Turkish e-commerce transactions increased 57 percent to 22
billion liras ($12.3 billion) in 2011 from a year earlier,
according to the Interbank Card Center, which monitors
transactions.  Forrester Research Inc (FORR)  says e-commerce will grow
just 12 percent annually in Europe over the next five years.  The torrid growth rate has given rise to more than 30
internet companies starting up in January alone. That has some
worried. The market may be “a little frothy,” said Pamir
Gelenbe, a venture partner for Antwerp-based Hummingbird
Ventures. “There’s a great crop of entrepreneurs, but now
there’s a little too much excitement and hype.”  ‘Double-Digit Growth’  Those entrepreneurs busy building their businesses don’t
see it that way. “We have 4.5 million members and we’re seeing
double-digit growth every month with no slowdown,” said Mutlu,
who attended this year’s  World Economic Forum  in Davos,
 Switzerland , and was praised in GQ as one of the “conference
cool” at F.ounders, the “Davos for geeks” in Dublin. She’s 30
years old, dresses in clothes she designed for the website’s new
private label and says she wants Trendyol to be Turkey’s first
tech company to go public on the Nasdaq Stock Market in  New
York .  That’s if Markafoni doesn’t get there first. The 43-year-
old Afra has rebuilt the  old belt factory  into a bare concrete
and glass headquarters called  Markafoni Plaza , with its own café
and terrace. While techies huddle around design computers and
models smoke cigarettes near a Range Rover parked outside, he
explains that the company takes more than 12,000 photographs a
day to market name-brand clothes, cosmetics and shoes at
discounts of up to 90 percent.  Acquisition Driver  A former EBay manager in Berlin, Afra settled in Turkey in
2008 and three years later sold 71 percent of Markafoni to Cape
Town-based Naspers for about $200 million. It was one of the
biggest foreign commitments to an industry that Deloitte &
Touche says will help drive Turkish acquisitions in 2012.  Cem Sertoglu, founder of venture capital firm Young Turk
Ventures, said e-commerce will continue to grow by a double-digit
percentage. The 40-year-old created and sold New York-based social
networking company SelectMinds Inc. to Bessemer Venture Partners.
Like Afra and Mutlu, he’s an example of a reverse brain drain 
that’s spurring innovation.  “It took me 17 years to come back,” Sertoglu said over
lunch in Istanbul. “I started a company when I was 28 in the
U.S. because being in New York looked much more attractive than
a life in Turkey. By 2006, Turkey started to look like a normal
country to a person like me, and now it’s becoming one of the
most interesting digital markets in the world.”  Like China  Turkey has more than 34 million internet users in a
population of 74 million, according to Comscore, making it the
world’s 13th largest internet market. Its $735 billion economy,
the largest in eastern Europe and the  Middle East , grew 9.6
percent in the first three quarters of 2011, trailing only  China 
in the Group of 20. Half the population is under 30.  “We see a dynamic in Turkey of young entrepreneurs with
great training, lots of talent, who often worked abroad and are
returning,” said Roland Manger, a partner at Munich-based Early
Bird Venture Capital, which invested about $4.5 million in
Istanbul-based games developer Peak Games. “What we saw eight
years ago in China and  India  when the best and the brightest
started to come back to build companies, is happening there.”  The privatization of telecom monopoly  Turk Telekomunikasyon
AS (TTKOM)  and the emergence of cloud computing, which allows software
distribution via the web, accelerated development, according to
Selahaddin Karatas, founder of Istanbul-based mobile software
companies Aradiom and  SolidPass .  Cloud Flattening  “Turkey had a very advanced e-commerce scene starting in
2000 in terms of the offerings, but they never materialized in
terms of revenue,” said Karatas, who returned in 1999 with an
economics degree from Wesleyan University in  Connecticut . “When
Turk Telekom was privatized, almost overnight a whole new class
of e-commerce companies emerged simply because the disconnect
between the offerings and the user base was bridged.”  Saudi Oger Ltd. bought 55 percent of Turk Telekom from the
government for $6.6 billion in 2005 and began expanding
broadband access and improving speed. “With the advent of the
cloud, the level of the playing field is being flattened,”
Karatas said.  EBay, the largest online auctioneer, bought a minority
stake in retail marketplace  Gittigidiyor  in 2007 and increased
its holding to 93 percent last year. Ticketmaster owner
 IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI)  bought vendor Biletix. Hummingbird Ventures
joined Early Bird in the Peak Games investment. And  Amazon (AMZN) 
invested in  Ciceksepeti.com , an online florist founded by Emre
Aydin, a former SAP AG consultant.  Flowers for Mom  Aydin started his website when his brother called from the
U.S. and asked him to send flowers to his mother and mother-in-
law in two different cities. Aydin looked online, realized it
was impossible, and started building a site the same night, he
said in an interview. “I didn’t know what a VC was,” he said,
referring to venture capital.  In nine months, Aydin had 20 trucks. Revenue tripled every
year as he switched to fulfilling orders through florists rather
than storing flowers in his own warehouses. “I didn’t search
for Amazon, we just met by chance. They were amazed at our
growth. They offered to invest, but we didn’t need funding.”  Aydin sold about 18 percent of the company to Amazon for an
undisclosed amount last year, and still works at a plain desk in
a poorly lit office in central business district, while city
buses on the roads outside are plastered with Ciceksepeti
banners. The company expects sales of about $38 million this
year and is looking to buy gift-industry competitors.  Atomico, the venture capital firm started by Skype
Technologies SA and Kazaa BV co-founder Niklas Zennstrom, opened
an office in Istanbul in January to look for deals in Turkey.
The London-based firm boasts Rovio Entertainment Oy, creator of
the “Angry Birds” game, among its investments.  Credit Available  “If you look at the macro level in Turkey, everybody knows
the numbers, and these are great,” said Wouter Gort, who
manages Atomico’s Turkish operations. “If you look at credit
card penetration, willingness of people to buy online, and new
people entering online with enough consumption strength to buy,
these are all bullish signals.”  That doesn’t mean every online venture will succeed. Clones
are common, as companies take advantage of low barriers to
entry. The owners of the leading food and flower delivery sites
won’t talk to each other because their companies share a suffix.
Yemeksepeti, which came first, means “food basket,” while
Ciceksepeti means “flower basket.” Both play off the age-old
Turkish custom of receiving deliveries from street peddlers via
baskets dangled from a window.  Investors are also concerned that a reversal in Turkey’s
economy could quickly put a damper on the e-commerce party.
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and the  World Bank  say Turkey’s debt
and trade imbalances, especially a current-account deficit of
$77.8 billion or 10 percent of GDP, make the country’s economy
vulnerable.  Trendyol’s Mutlu is sanguine: “Of 30 million people
online, only five or six million have bought something online,
which means there’s room for growth. And we’re a discount
business, so even a downturn could help.”  Global Leaders  The largest U.S. private shopping site, Gilt Groupe Inc.,
gets fewer than one-third of the unique visits that Markafoni
and Trendyol receive, according to Idil Kesten at Comscore. Gilt
Groupe is valued at $1 billion on  SharesPost Inc. , which allows
investors to trade in venture-backed private companies.  Using Comscore data, Markafoni says it trails only  France ’s
 Vente-Privee , a joint venture with  American Express Co. (AXP) , in
unique visits to a members-only shopping network. Trendyol is
third in unique hits, according to Comscore data, though it
surpasses Markafoni in overall hits, with nearly 15 million in
February.  Burak Buyukdemir, who earned an MBA in Berlin and founded
the e-Tohum startup camp in Turkey, said companies are making
the transition from copycats to innovators. Examples include
Minder, which is working on control systems using brainwaves,
and Buggum, with a game optioned by  Electronic Arts Inc (EA) .  “All of my friends in the U.S., in the long term their
dream is to come back,” Buyukdemir said. “They see the
opportunity, and the success stories we’re seeing now have a
snowball effect.”  Investment Pace  Nevzat Aydin, no relation to Ciceksepeti’s founder, co-
founded food delivery portal  Yemeksepeti.com  in 2000 after
dropping out of a master’s program at the University of  San
Francisco . He expects two or three e-commerce investments of
$200 million or more in Turkey this year and a “serious
increase” in the $50 million to $100 million range.  Yemeksepeti has expanded to Russia and Dubai, and is in 
the process of starting operations in three more countries,
illustrating what Manger of Early Bird says is Turkey’s
opportunity to become a regional e-commerce hub.  “Turkish companies are very eager to expand into markets
that the West is less familiar with,” Manger said. “Add in the
Middle East and Central Asia and you’re adding in hundreds of
millions of potential new customers.”  Says Nevzat Aydin: “Turkey’s geographical location,
proximity to Europe and the Middle East, good Internet
penetration and young population present a big opportunity.
We’ll have this ‘Internet spring’ for some years to come.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  