-- Asian Currencies Advance as Fed Policy Outlook May Boost Inflows
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-03-27T08:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/asian-currencies-advance-as-fed-policy-outlook-may-boost-inflows.html
Asian currencies advanced for a
third day after the  Federal Reserve  signaled it will keep U.S.
interest rates near zero, helping drive demand for higher-
yielding assets.  The Bloomberg-JP Morgan Asia Dollar Index headed for the
best quarter since 2010 as regional  stocks  rebounded from a two-
week low. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said yesterday that
continued monetary stimulus will be needed to bolster employment
in the world’s largest economy. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said yesterday that she may back plans for  Europe ’s temporary
and permanent rescue funds to run in parallel.  “Bernanke’s comments suggest U.S. interest rates won’t
rise for a while,” said Shigehisa Shiroki, chief trader on the
Asian and emerging-markets team in Tokyo at Mizuho Corporate
Bank Ltd. “Merkel’s comments helped to improve risk sentiment.
Fund inflows to the region will continue.”  South Korea ’s won rallied 0.7 percent to close at 1,134.20
per dollar in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Malaysia’s ringgit strengthened 0.5 percent to 3.0585, India’s
rupee appreciated 0.9 percent to 50.79 and the Philippine peso
climbed 0.3 percent to 42.92.  The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
used currencies excluding the yen, has climbed  1.4 percent  this
year. Foreign investors bought $25.5 billion more stocks than
they sold in India, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand this year,
based on data compiled by stock exchanges.  Korean Confidence  Reducing the U.S. jobless rate further will probably
require a quicker expansion of business production and consumer
demand, which “can be supported by continued accommodative
policies,” Bernanke said. Policy makers at the Fed said after a
Jan. 25 policy meeting that they saw “exceptionally low”
 interest rates  through 2014. The target rate has remained
between zero and 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Munich-based Ifo institute said yesterday its German
business climate index improved to 109.8 this month from a
revised 109.7 in February.  The won snapped a five-day decline after a Bank of Korea
report showed consumer confidence rose to a four-month high as
the  U.S. economy  improved and Europe’s debt crisis waned.  Thai Forecasts  Thailand’s baht gained 0.2 percent to 30.71 per dollar,
poised for its biggest gain since March 8. The finance ministry
raised its 2012 growth estimate and predicted interest rates
will rise. Gross domestic product may expand between 5 percent
and 6 percent, Somchai Sujjapongse, head of the fiscal policy
office, said in Bangkok yesterday. The government forecast a 5
percent growth earlier.  “The baht should benefit from last night’s comments from
the finance ministry that they expect a rate hike this year,”
said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB.  China ’s yuan climbed 0.11 percent to 6.3072 per dollar in
 Shanghai , according to China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The
People’s Bank of China fixed its reference rate at 6.2840, the
strongest on record.  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah strengthened 0.3 percent to
9,168 versus the greenback and the  Taiwan  dollar gained 0.1
percent to NT$29.584.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  