-- Treasuries Rise With Dollar as S&P 500 Index Retreats
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-03-27T21:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/asian-stocks-metals-gain-on-bernanke-comments.html
Treasuries rose, trimming the
biggest monthly drop in more than a year, after an auction
generated higher-than-average demand. The dollar strengthened
against most major counterparts, and the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index fell from an almost four-year high.  Ten-year Treasury yields lost seven basis points to 2.18
percent at 4 p.m. in  New York , paring the monthly gain to 21
basis points. The dollar added 0.3 percent to $1.3323 per euro
as it strengthened versus 14 of 16 major counterparts. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.3 percent to 1,412.52
after closing at the  highest level  since May 2008 yesterday. The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average erased losses from last year’s
earthquake. Natural gas slumped to a 10-year low on speculation
government data this week will show a growing surplus.  Treasuries gained as the government sold $35 billion of
two-year securities. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
signaled yesterday he will continue to stimulate the economy.
The economic recovery is not yet assured and unemployment
remains too high, Bernanke told ABC News anchor  Diane Sawyer ,
according to transcripts of the interview released after the
close of markets today.  “The auction went very well, and should extend to the rest
of the week’s auctions given the sentiment,” said  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate strategist in New York at BNP Paribas
Securities SA, a primary dealer obliged to bid at Treasury
offerings. “There is less risk appetite, which is beneficial
for bonds. Going into quarter-end and month-end, there is more
reluctance to take on risk position because people want to pay
it safe.”  Bonds, Stocks  The Treasury auction drew a yield of 0.340 percent,
compared with a forecast of 0.349 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of seven of the  Federal Reserve ’s 21 primary dealers. The
bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids
with the amount of securities offered, was 3.69, versus an
average of 3.53 for the past 10 sales.  U.S. 30-year bonds advanced also, sending yields down four
basis points to 3.30 percent. Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s  Bill Gross  said continued credit expansion by central
banks will produce accelerating global inflation and slower
growth. Two-year yields fell three basis points to 0.32 percent.  Among U.S. stocks, Bank of America Corp. slipped 3.3
percent after its shares were downgraded by Robert W. Baird &
Co. Apollo Group Inc., the biggest U.S. for-profit college
company, slumped 8.5 percent amid concern over new enrollments.
Lennar Corp., the third-largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue,
advanced 4.7 percent as earnings exceeded projections.  Quarterly Rally  The  S&P 500  has climbed about 12 percent since the end of
last year, poised for the best first quarter since 1998, amid
better-than-forecast earnings and economic data. Financial
companies and computer makers rose the most among 10 groups,
with gains of more than 21 percent so far this year.  Investors chasing gains in stocks may help drive the S&P
500 to 1,440 in coming weeks while leaving the market vulnerable
to losses once the so-called “window dressing” is over, UBS AG
said.  Peter Lee, the New York-based chief technical analyst for
UBS, said fund managers’ purchases of the  best-performing  stocks
at the end of the quarter are likely to push the S&P 500 toward
his 2012 target range of 1,440 to 1,450 sooner than the second
half of the year, as he had anticipated. A failure of the
benchmark index to hold gains above these levels may trigger a
pullback of 5 percent to 10 percent, he said.  Homebuilders Climb  A gauge of  homebuilders  in S&P indexes rose 2.9 percent
today, the most in two weeks.  Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities
dropped at a slower pace in January, pointing to stabilization
in the housing market. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property
values in 20 cities fell 3.8 percent from a year earlier,
matching the median forecast of 32 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, after decreasing 4.1 percent in December.  The Conference Board’s confidence index dropped to 70.2
from a revised 71.6 reading in February that was higher than
initially reported.  “It’s far too early to declare victory,” Bernanke said,
according to a transcript of the interview provided by ABC.
“The recent news has been good. But I think we need to be
cautious and make sure this is sustainable.” He added that the
Fed can’t yet be “completely confident that we’re on a track to
full recovery.”  Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher 
said the U.S. central bank has “done its job” to provide
liquidity when it was needed and that the economy now needs
Congress to indicate a clearer plan for taxes and spending.  Sovereign Wealth Funds  In  Europe , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc climbed 3.3
percent after two people with knowledge of the situation said
the U.K. government held talks with investors, including Middle
Eastern sovereign wealth funds, about a sale of part of its
stake. The U.K. said it will only sell its majority holding in
RBS when it has obtained maximum value for taxpayers.  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  surged 11 percent as  Il Sole 24 Ore  said
Hitachi Ltd. is in talks to buy stakes in Ansaldobreda SpA and
Ansaldo STS SpA from Italy’s biggest arms company. Finmeccanica
is scheduled to report earnings after the close of trading
today. Hochtief AG fell 5.3 percent as trading in its Australian
subsidiary, Leighton Holdings Ltd., was halted before a
quarterly review.  A measure of French sentiment jumped to 87 in March from 82
in February, national statistics office Insee reported in Paris
today. That’s the highest since July. Economists forecast an
unchanged reading, the median of 16 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey showed.  Pound Rises  The pound strengthened against 12 of 16 major peers and the
yield on the 10-year gilt lost seven basis points to 2.26
percent. Bank of England policy maker  David Miles  said yesterday
that spare industrial capacity will subdue domestically
generated inflation, boosting the case for further bond
purchases.  The IMF cut in January its forecast for the global economy
this year to 3.3 percent growth, with the U.S. expanding 1.8
percent and the euro area contracting 0.5 percent.  “We’ve not changed the assessment of the baseline of the
world economy,” David Lipton, first deputy managing director of
the IMF, said in Seoul today. “We expect modest growth in the
U.S., mild recession in Europe and a continuation of a
comfortable level of growth in  Asia  with a soft landing in
 China .”  German Bunds  The yield on 10-year German bunds fell seven basis points
to 1.89 percent. The 10-year Italian bond’s rate rose nine basis
points to 5.12 percent while the yield on similar-maturity
Spanish debt climbed two basis points to 5.35 percent. Italy
sold about 2.82 billion euros of two-year zero-coupon bonds,
while Spain sold 2.58 billion euros ($3.44 billion) of three-and
six-month bills compared with a maximum target of 3 billion
euros.  The cost of insuring sovereign debt fell after European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said euro-region governments
should continue to take “decisive measures” after the central
bank’s liquidity provisions helped restore investor confidence.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said Germany may back plans for
the temporary and permanent euro-area rescue funds to run in
parallel. European finance ministers will meet on March 30 to
discuss raising a 500 billion-euro ($664 billion) ceiling on the
region’s financial firewall.  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  jumped 2.4 percent,
erasing losses from last year’s earthquake and nuclear disaster
as $241 billion in reconstruction spending and central bank
efforts to devalue the yen combined to boost the country’s
biggest companies. Sony Corp., the country’s largest exporter of
consumer electronics, climbed 3.1 percent.  Natural Gas Slumps  Natural gas helped lead losses among 15 of of 24
commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI index, falling as much 2.3
percent to a 10-year low of $2.176 per million British thermal
units, before an Energy Department report on March 29 about
stockpiles. Arabica coffee surged 4.8 percent, the biggest gain
among S&P GSCI materials, on concern that adverse weather will
hurt crops in Brazil, the world’s largest producer.  Emerging-market stocks advanced the most in two weeks after
South Korea’s consumer confidence improved. The MSCI Emerging
Markets  index  climbed 1 percent, the Hong Kong Hang Seng  index 
gained 1.8 percent, South Korea’s  KOSPI (KOSPI)  increased 1 percent and
India’s Sensex added 1.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  