-- Greece Must Boost Economy Revamp for Rescue to Work, EU Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-03-27T18:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/asmussen-says-greece-needs-more-political-reform-consensus-1-.html
Greece  must step up efforts to
tighten the budget and overhaul the economy to prevent a  second
bailout  from collapsing, European officials said, highlighting
how little room for maneuver the next government will have.  “Without a regime change in policy implementation and a
much broader political consensus in favor of painful but
necessary reforms, there is a high risk that the program
derails,” European Central Bank Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen  told  a European Parliament committee today in Brussels.
“Political courage is needed more than ever.”  Caretaker Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  won parliamentary
approval on March 21 for the 130 billion-euro ($173 billion)
rescue program. Passage of the legislation moves the country a
step closer to elections that may be held as early as next
month. Greece pushed through the biggest sovereign debt
restructuring in history earlier this month, paving the way for
the bailout.  Asmussen’s comments were echoed by European Union Economic
and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn , who said that
“challenges remain” as Greece seeks to cut its debt to around
116 percent of gross domestic product in 2020 from more than 160
percent of GDP last year.  “The current pace of reform and adjustment are far from
sufficient to make Greece’s public finances sustainable or to
close the competitiveness gap,” Rehn said in his  remarks  to the
Brussels panel. “Further efforts are therefore necessary.”  Targets Missed  Asmussen said Greece, which missed fiscal-austerity targets
under its initial 110 billion-euro rescue in May 2010, can’t
afford to fall behind in enacting the new program.  Urging the Greek political class to challenge “vested
interests,” he said the country must overhaul labor-market
policies including by reducing private-sector wages and
loosening the salary-setting system to bolster the economy.  Such a step “may not be popular, but there is no way
around it,” Asmussen said. “The program is subject to
exceptionally high implementation risks.”  A “substantial internal devaluation” is the price for
reviving the Greek economy within the euro area, according to
Asmussen, who said policy makers in  Europe  wish to keep Greece
in the single currency because an exit would risk destabilizing
European financial markets.  “A country leaving the euro area would give incalculable
risks to financial stability of the euro area as a whole,” he
said.  Greece must act quickly to bolster its banks, most of which
are “heavily undercapitalized” as a result of the debt
exchange, Asmussen said.  In that context, he said 25 billion euros earmarked under
the new program for initial support for Greece’s banks should be
used for a “swift injection” of capital into the country’s
lenders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Brockett at   mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  