-- Australian, N.Z. Dollars Fall as Asian Stocks Drop
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-03-28T05:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/australian-n-z-dollars-hold-declines-on-global-stock-drops.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars slid against most major peers as Asian stocks extended a
global retreat, sapping demand for higher-yielding assets.  Both currencies are headed for their first monthly drop
this year amid concern Chinese manufacturing will slow, curbing
demand for resource exports.  Australia ’s dollar touched the
weakest level in five months against New Zealand’s currency
before a report forecast to show annual growth in bank lending
in the larger nation was the slowest since August.  “A drop in Asian stocks is a negative catalyst for the
South Pacific nations’ currencies,” said Takuya Kawabata, a
researcher at Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd. in  Tokyo , a
unit of  Japan ’s largest currency-margin company. “We’d like to
be cautious about a Chinese slowdown because it weighs on
Australia’s dollar.”  The so-called Aussie declined 0.3 percent to $1.0426 as of
4 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday when it dropped 0.7 percent. It
sank to as low as NZ$1.2732, a level unseen since Oct. 12. The
New Zealand dollar lost 0.3 percent to 81.83 U.S. cents.  The Australian dollar has lost 2.8 percent against the U.S.
currency this month, while the so-called kiwi has slid 1.9
percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares dropped 0.5 percent
today after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent in
 New York  yesterday.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said on March 22
that their flash reading for Chinese manufacturing this month
was at 48.1, compared with a final 49.6 in February and below
the 50 level that divides expansion from contraction. The China
Federation of Logistics & Purchasing will issue its purchasing
managers index on April 1, with economists predicting a 51
figure. The nation is Australia’s largest overseas market and
New Zealand’s second-biggest export destination.  Credit Growth  Australian  private credit  probably rose 3.3 percent year-
on-year in February, compared with a 3.5 percent gain the prior
month, according to the median economist estimate. The  Reserve
Bank  of Australia will release the figure on March 30.  “The slow credit growth environment could constrain the
pace” of large banks’ future profit growth, the RBA said in its
 financial stability review  released today. “The retail,
manufacturing, construction and tourism sectors are facing
headwinds from subdued retail spending and the high  exchange
rate .”  Yields on Australia’s two-year government notes slid seven
basis points to 3.62 percent. The  spread  between the securities
and similar-maturity Japanese debt narrowed to 3.5 percentage
points from a four-month high of 3.69 on March 15.  Yield Spreads  Australia’s dollar lost 0.7 percent to 86.41 yen, trimming
its gain this year to 10 percent. The kiwi slid 0.7 percent to
67.81 yen and has advanced 13 percent in 2012.  Two-year interest-rate swaps in New Zealand, which exchange
a fixed rate for a floating one, fell to 3.065 percent from
3.075 percent.  The Aussie has added 2.1 percent this year against the
greenback, while the kiwi has risen 5.3 percent. Both currencies
are set for a second-straight quarter of gains. The  Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index (SPGSCITR)  for commodities has climbed 7.9
percent this quarter, while the  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of
shares has jumped 12 percent.  The U.S. Commerce Department will probably say today that
orders for  durable goods  rose 3 percent in February after
dropping 3.7 percent the month before, according to economists.  “It tends to be the case if the U.S. is performing well in
an economic sense, risk sentiment is generally well supported,”
said Hamish Pepper, assistant vice president in  Singapore  at
 Barclays Capital . “In that environment the Australian dollar
and the New Zealand dollar tend to perform well.”  Australia’s currency will climb to $1.07 in 12 months’
time, while the New Zealand dollar will reach 86 U.S. cents,
said Pepper, who worked for the  Reserve Bank of New Zealand  for
four years before joining the London-based Barclays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  