-- Autodesk Introduces Engineering Software, Cloud Platform
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-03-27T21:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/autodesk-introduces-new-engineering-software-cloud-platform.html
Autodesk Inc. (ADSK) , a maker of
architectural and engineering software, unveiled new design
tools and a revamped cloud-computing platform called Autodesk
360 that lets customers use the programs over the Internet.  The new package includes design, engineering and
entertainment software, the  San Rafael , California-based company
said today. It connects to Autodesk 360, letting users store,
edit and share their designs. The system also lets customers tap
as much computing power as they need, Autodesk said.  The largest seller of engineering and design software is
shifting more of its product development toward applications
that can be delivered over the Web, in addition to being
installed on users’ personal computers. Autodesk is also
building software for smartphones and Apple Inc.’s iPad, such as
its SketchBook application, which can create drawings and
paintings on touch screens.  The company’s smartphone and tablet apps are influencing
the design of its professional desktop products, Chief Executive
Officer Carl Bass said in an interview. For example, users can
transfer SketchBook drawings to more powerful tools for
refinements, he said.  “When someone’s about to design a car, there’s that famous
napkin sketch,” he said. “We’re giving our professional users
the tools to do that.”  ‘Shift the Locus’  Later this year, the company will give users of its desktop
design programs the ability to pay premiums for more cloud-
computing processing power, which could help them render design
drawings quickly to meet deadlines, Bass said. Less urgent jobs
could draw on free or lower-priced cloud services, he said.  “We really just want to shift the locus of where the work
is,” Bass said.  Autodesk competes with Bentley Systems Inc. and Dassault
Systemes SA in the  engineering software  market. Bass has
estimated that the “vast majority” of software will be
delivered via the cloud within five years, and that such
programs will increase computing power to save engineers time.  Autodesk fell less than 1 percent to $42.19 at the close in
 New York . The  shares  have gained 39 percent this year after
tumbling 21 percent in 2011.  The company generated $2.2 billion in  revenue  in its last
fiscal year, up 14 percent from a year earlier.  Resellers of the company’s software are signing larger
deals from software suites and cloud-computing products, Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities LLC in
 Portland ,  Oregon , said this month in a research note. Barnicle
has an outperform rating on the shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  