-- Hawker Beechcraft Gets $120 Million Loan as Covenants Waived
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-03-27T22:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/hawker-beechcraft-reaches-deal-for-120-million-of-new-liquidity.html
Hawker Beechcraft Inc., the
aircraft manufacturer owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Onex
Corp. (OCX) , struck a deal with lenders that will provide a $120
million loan as it negotiates with creditors to avoid default.  The company will receive the loan under its existing credit
facility, Nicole Alexander, a spokeswoman for the firm, said in
an e-mailed statement. Lenders holding about 70 percent of its
bank debt also agreed to waive certain covenants and are letting
the company defer interest payments until June 29, according to
the statement.  The company in February named turnaround specialist  Steve Miller  as chief executive officer after hiring Perella Weinberg
Partners LP as a financial adviser in December. The Wichita,
Kansas-based plane maker has been seeking concessions from its
lenders that will allow it to continue to operate as weaker
demand for  business jets  depresses revenue.  “The agreement provides Hawker Beechcraft and its lenders
with additional time and flexibility to work together to
recapitalize the company,” Miller said in the statement.  Goldman Sachs Capital Partners, the bank’s private-equity
arm, and Toronto-based Onex bought Hawker Beechcraft in 2007,
giving the New York-based bank and Canada’s largest buyout firm
equal stakes of 49 percent each. The company’s aircraft include
the Hawker 4000 business jet and the Beechcraft King Air
propjet.  Hawker Beechcraft had $2.14 billion of debt outstanding as
of Sept. 30, including $630.6 million of unsecured notes and
$1.4 billion of term loans backed by its assets, according to
its third-quarter report. The company hasn’t yet reported
results for the fourth quarter of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 