-- Both Parties See Signs They’ll Win in U.S. Health Ruling
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-03-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/lawmakers-of-both-parties-see-signs-they-ll-win-in-health-ruling.html
Republicans and Democrats in
Congress said they saw signs of eventual victory as the  U.S.
Supreme Court (1000L)  finished the second of three days of arguments on
the health-care overhaul that cleared Congress on party lines.  On the Capitol lawn after yesterday’s session, Republican
leaders who oppose the 2010 law said their observation of the
justices gave them reason to hope the court will strike down the
law’s mandate requiring Americans to obtain health insurance or
pay a penalty.  Kentucky  Republican  Mitch McConnell , the Senate minority
leader, said it was noteworthy that the four Republican-
appointed justices who spoke peppered the Obama administration
attorney defending the law with questions, while four “more
liberal” members of the court were directing their queries
mostly to the plaintiff’s side. Justice  Clarence Thomas , a fifth
Republican appointee, said nothing, as is his practice.  “What that leads to, we don’t know, but we know that the
suspense will be over in June,” when the nine-member court
probably will rule, McConnell said. He reiterated that if the
health-care law survives the court challenge, Senate Republicans
will repeal it if they win control of the chamber in the
November election.  ‘Good to Speculate’  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , the Nevada Democrat who
muscled the measure through the Senate with all 60 members of
his party and the opposition of every Republican then serving,
said it’s unwise to predict outcomes based on the court
arguments. He said he’s confident the law, designed to expand
health coverage to 32 million more Americans and control soaring
costs, will remain intact after justices rule on the
constitutionality of the individual mandate.  “It’s good to speculate as to what might happen,” Reid
said. “But believe me, those nine men and women are extremely
smart. And a lot of times they probe with those questions, not
in any way to tip their mitt as to how they’re going to vote.”  The court hasn’t overturned a measure of such significance
since the 1930s, when it voided parts of  Franklin D. Roosevelt ’s
New Deal.  As lawmakers tried to discern the possible outcome of the
case, the scene across the street at the Supreme Court building
underscored the stakes for both parties as the election
approaches.  At the court, hundreds of protesters on both sides rallied,
although the group was dominated by the Republican-leaning
groups that oppose the law and will help get out the vote for
the party this fall. Some carried “Don’t Tread on Me” flags
and chanted, “Hey, hey, ho, ho, Obamacare has got to go.”  Rallying the Right  By afternoon, the opponents organized by Americans for
Prosperity outnumbered supporters of the health-care overhaul.
Republican Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota  and
Senator  Rand Paul  of Kentucky spoke against the law, urging
opponents to call their members of Congress.  Some opinion surveys show that the public is skeptical as
to whether the justices can keep politics out of their decision-
making. A Bloomberg News National Poll earlier this month found
that three-quarters of Americans say the Supreme Court will be
influenced by politics when it rules, probably in June, less
than five months before the presidential election.  The sentiment crosses party lines and is especially held by
independents, 80 percent of whom said the court won’t base its
ruling solely on legal merits. More Republicans than Democrats,
by 74 percent to 67 percent, said politics will play a role.  ‘Up for Adoption’  At the Capitol, some Senate Democrats pointed out that
Republicans were proponents of an individual mandate for health
coverage during the 1993 debate over a health-care overhaul.  “The Republicans were fathers of the individual mandate,
now suddenly they want to give it up for adoption on the steps
of the U.S.  Supreme Court ,”  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the
Senate’s third-ranking Democrat, told reporters.  Senate Judiciary Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat
who attended the arguments yesterday, said a ruling that the
individual mandate was unconstitutional might have implications
for other government programs.  “Tomorrow something could come and impact Social Security
for the same reason, and that would be unconstitutional,” Leahy
told reporters. “Or, people like myself, who buy insurance, but
also have to pay for Medicare, well, we could say Medicare is
unconstitutional.”  Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat, said he was confident
that opponents of the law were basing objections “on politics
rather than precedent.”  “I am convinced, after listening to the two hours this
morning, that this court can go no other way but to uphold the
individual mandate that the Congress has put in the Affordable
Care Act,” Harkin told reporters.  Signs of Doubt  Utah Republican Senator  Mike Lee , speaking outside the
court after the argument, said in his view, Justice  Anthony Kennedy ’s questions reflected doubts about the constitutionality
of the coverage mandate.  “Based on the questions he asked, his demeanor, his body
language,” Lee said he thinks Kennedy “was leaning toward the
conclusion that the individual mandate is unconstitutional.”  Lee, who was a clerk for Justice Samuel Alito when the
justice was a federal appeals court judge, said his former boss
seemed “not just somewhat, but significantly skeptical” of the
government’s case.  Republican leaders at their news conference were flanked by
state officials who were taking the lead in the court challenge.  ‘Very Confident’  Pam Bondi,  Florida ’s Republican attorney general, said it’s
more likely than not that the states challenging the law will
prevail.  “We feel very confident,” she said. “We feel very
pleased with the questions the justices have been asking.”  Nebraska Attorney General Jon Bruning, also a Republican,
said as is often the case, Justice Kennedy will be pivotal and
the questions he asked appeared to reflect long-standing views
that there are limits to Congress’ constitutional power to
regulate interstate commerce.  “He’s very skeptical of unlimited congressional power
under the Commerce Clause,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  