-- Tax-Lien Probe Wins Sixth N.J. Plea as Lawyer Admits Guilt
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-03-27T17:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/tax-lien-probe-wins-sixth-n-j-plea-as-lawyer-admits-guilt-1-.html
The owner of a  New Jersey  real
estate company became the sixth person to plead guilty in a
federal antitrust probe, admitting he conspired for a decade to
rig auctions of municipal tax liens throughout the state.  Robert E. Rothman, an attorney who owns Rothman Realty
Corp. in Englewood, New Jersey, pleaded guilty today in federal
court in  Newark , New Jersey. Rothman, 59, is the sixth person to
admit his role in the scheme and cooperate with a growing
investigation by the  Justice Department ’s antitrust division.  Rothman admitted he helped eliminate competition from 2000
to 2009 by submitting collusive bids at auctions. The group
allocated “which tax liens each would bid on” and bought liens
at “collusive and non-competitive” rates, he admitted. If
liens were unpaid, their buyers could foreclose against the
property.  “The Antitrust Division’s investigation into municipal tax
liens is ongoing and active,” Sharis A. Pozen, acting assistant
attorney general, said in a statement. “The division will not
tolerate this kind of illegal conduct that harms distressed
homeowners.”  Rothman faces as many as 10 years in prison, although he is
likely to get far less time if prosecutors are satisfied with
his cooperation. U.S. District Judge Dennis Cavanaugh set
sentencing for July. He released Rothman on a $100,000 unsecured
bond.  Rothman’s attorney, Robert Cleary, the former U.S. attorney
in New Jersey, declined to comment on his client’s plea.  At the hearing, Rothman didn’t identify which
municipalities were involved or identify his co-conspirators,
beyond saying “out-of-state” bidders participated and bought
liens with “out-of-state” funds.  Royal Bank  Since August, five others pleaded guilty. One was lawyer
Robert W. Stein, who co-owned two tax-lien firms with Royal Bank
America, which runs banks in New Jersey and  Pennsylvania .  M.D. Sass Investors Services Inc., a closely held manager
of more than $5 billion, participated in an auction of New
Jersey tax liens that has come under the scrutiny of
investigators.  A representative of M.D. Sass, whose tax-lien funds have as
much as $110 million in assets, was among seven bidders on March
5, 2007, for liens in the borough of Newfield, records show.  Seven Bidders  Three people associated with the seven bidders pleaded
guilty to antitrust charges and are cooperating with
prosecutors. The Justice Department subpoenaed records of the
auction on Feb. 15. M.D. Sass hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing.  New Jersey municipalities seeking revenue sell about
$100 million a year in local tax debt on commercial and
residential property, according to Vincent Belluscio, executive
director of the Tax Collectors and Treasurers  Association  of New
Jersey.  Firms that buy liens at auction pay the tax liability in
full and seek to collect from the property owner. They may earn
as much as 30 percent on their investment, according to
Belluscio. Beyond interest of as much as 18 percent on back
taxes, the firms may add penalties of 12 percent, he said.  Bidders on the liens are supposed to compete fairly for the
right to buy them and collect taxes on property. Buyers, who
seek the return of their principal investment and interest,
begin bidding at 18 percent interest and lower that rate with
each bid.  Rothman admitted bidders didn’t compete on  interest rates .  At least three people have pleaded guilty to similar
charges related to auctions in  Maryland .  The case is U.S. v. Rothman, U.S. District Court, District
of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  