-- Baby Dragons in ‘Thrones’; 48-Foot Boa; Pip: TV
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-03-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/baby-dragons-in-thrones-48-foot-boa-pip-dark-killing-tv.html
The night is dark and full of
terror, intones a heretic priestess on “Game of Thrones.”  Too much darkness, too little terror for me, but the talky
series’ dragon-loving legions won’t be disappointed by the
convolutions of Season 2.  The big-budget adaptation of George R.R. Martin’s swords-
and-sorcery bestsellers is one of  HBO (TWX) ’s most popular series, a
well-produced, high-toned fantasy epic with gravitas to spare.  As the new season begins, war and winter are descending on
Westeros, a red-tailed comet portends change and the sadistic
youth Joffrey (Jack Gleeson) sits at the Iron Throne of King’s
Landing.  That summary, of course, doesn’t begin to encompass the
series’ political machinations, military maneuvers and dynastic
discord -- all the stuff that fans devour and the rest of us
find impenetrable and silly. The baby dragons are cool, though,
and Emmy-winning Peter Dinklage as the outwardly cynical dwarf
Tyrion Lannister remains the show’s commanding center.  “Game of Thrones” airs Sunday on  HBO  at 9 p.m.  New York 
time. Rating: **1/2  ‘Monster Snake’  Who needs horror films when you’ve got  Smithsonian Channel ’s
“Titanoboa: Monster Snake?”  The slick documentary offers a first look at the 48-foot,
2,500-pound snake that slithered through  Colombia ’s rainforests
60 million years ago, snacking on SUV-sized crocodiles.  Discovered only 10 years ago, when a coal mining excavation
turned up a fist-sized, fossilized vertebra, the ancestor of
modern boa constrictors dubbed Titanoboa (pronounced ti-TAN-o-
BO-a) should thrill nightmare-loving kids decades to come.  Adults will find plenty to squirm about too, as the film
chronicles scientists’ decade-long reconstruction of the beast.
Included: side trips to  Venezuela , where boa hunters trudge
barefoot through marshes hoping to brush against creatures sane
people avoid.  “Titanoboa: Monster Snake” airs Sunday on Smithsonian
Channel at 8 p.m. New York time. Rating: **1/2  ‘The Killing’  The shooting of mayoral candidate Darren Richmond (Billy
Campbell) that ended the debut season of  AMC (AMCX) ’s “The Killing”
seriously tested our patience.  The moody whodunit returns Sunday for Season 2, bloodied but
worth a second look.  Set in  Seattle , producer Veena Sud’s remake of a popular
Danish series about the search for a teenage girl’s murderer had
the most intriguing premiere since Laura Palmer’s corpse washed
up on “Twin Peaks.”  But months followed of blind alleys, red herrings and
relentless gloom, turning “The Killing” into an endurance test,
capped by a frustrating season finale that raised more questions
than it answered.  The two-hour return knocks at least two people off the list
of suspects in the murder of Rosie Larsen. We find out which
cops are corrupt (and which most definitely are not) and get a
firmer sense of a political conspiracy that trailed the murder.  What we do not find out, not yet, anyway, is who killed
Rosie. Nevertheless, “The Killing” had me hooked from start to
finish, thanks mostly to the newly prominent role of troubled,
loyal campaign manager Jamie Wright (Eric Ladin).  Season 2 picks up in the immediate aftermath of the
shooting. Jamie is devastated, and Ladin’s sharp portrayal hints
at motivations and feelings that could take the story in fresh
directions.  Ladin’s increased screen time also provides occasional
respite from the grim intensity of murder-obsessed detectives
Mireille Enos and Stephen Holder. As good as Enos and Holder are
-- and they are very good -- they can be wearying.  On the Larsen home front, Brent Sexton’s grieving father
lends this series the volatility of a poked bear, and Terry
Marek as the dead teen’s party-girl aunt continues to find
emotional layers. (Rosie’s mother, played by Michelle Forbes, is
M.I.A. during the two-hour premiere).  “The Killing” airs Sunday on AMC at 8 p.m. New York time.
Rating: ***  ‘Great Expectations’  PBS ’s two-part Masterpiece Classic adaptation of  Charles Dickens ’s “Great Expectations” is as handsome as its Pip, but
too often also as wan.  Douglas Booth plays the orphan smitten by love and
compromised by mysteriously-gained wealth. He might be the
prettiest Pip ever caught on film, but Booth’s mostly
expressionless performance is as dry as Miss Havisham’s ancient
wedding cake.  Gillian Anderson, done up in ghostly face-paint and using
the sort of spooky voice adults use to scare children, plays the
haunted Havisham, going as far over the top as Booth goes under.  Better are Ray Winstone as the convict Magwitch and David Suchet as the string-pulling lawyer Jaggers. Havisham goes up in
flames, but they bring the fire.  “Great Expectations” airs on PBS’s Masterpiece Classic
Sunday April 1 and April 8 at 9 p.m. New York time. Rating: **  
( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 