-- Baghdad Arab Summit Highlights Iraqi and Mideast Splits
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-03-27T10:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/baghdad-arab-summit-highlights-iraqi-and-mideast-splits.html
A three-day Arab League summit in
Baghdad this week is intended to mark  Iraq ’s return as a
prominent member of the Arab world. It also highlights the
country’s political chaos, continued violence and differences
with its neighbors and the U.S.  Three months after the last American troops pulled out,
Shiite Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki is accused of using
security forces and the courts to target Sunni political rivals
and consolidate power. Car bombs regularly rip through Iraqi
cities, killing more than 50 people last week, and al-Qaeda
affiliates and local militias continue to operate.  The Arab League’s spotlight on Syria may undermine Iraq’s
aim of proving its regional relevance. Iraq has already remained
on the sidelines as Arab states ratchet up their criticism of
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Saudi Arabian Prince Saud Al- Faisal, the world’s longest-serving foreign minister, last month
said arming  Syria ’s opposition is an “excellent idea.”  “Iraqis are hoping desperately that this will be the
moment of their reintegration into the Arab world,” said Ken Pollack, an analyst at the  Brookings Institution , a Washington
research institute. “If Iraq feels rebuffed by the Arab world,
that will drive it further into the arms of the Iranians.”  Ishtar Hotel  U.S. and other intelligence officials charge that Iran has
been flying weapons to Syrian government forces through Iraqi
airspace. Iraq’s government spokesman, Ali al-Dabbagh, on March
17 said the country won’t allow any country to use its land or
skies as a passage to ferry weapons to Syria. Iraq will ensure
that all cargo passing over its skies for Syria is carrying
humanitarian aid, Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki said March 16.  Amid tight security, economy ministers from the region meet
today in the Ishtar hotel, a former Sheraton property on the
Tigris river across from the capital’s fortified Green Zone. As
many as 12 heads of state will attend over the next three days,
Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari said March 26.  Iraq’s turn as regional host comes after President  Barack Obama  declared March 19 a day of commemoration for the 4,804
American troops who died in the nine-year war, according to
icasualties.org.  $800 Billion  The war also cost 179 coalition troops and more than
145,000 Iraqis their lives, according to  Brown University ’s
Costs of War Project, and U.S. taxpayers more than $800 billion,
according to the National Priorities Project in Northampton,
 Massachusetts .  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta , in Baghdad on Dec. 15, said
the American sacrifices have been worth it because they set Iraq
on a course to democracy.  Still, the implications of Iraq’s unresolved internal
conflicts and its failure to reintegrate with its Arab neighbors
in the  Persian Gulf  are strategic, political and economic,
Pollack and other regional specialists said.  Even as Maliki has heightened security in advance of the
Arab League meeting, the “Islamic State of Iraq,” an al-Qaeda
affiliate, claimed responsibility for a wave of attacks this
month on  Baghdad , Karbala and Kirkuk. The attacks demonstrated
the militant Sunni group’s ability despite attempts by Iraqi
security forces to target it, said Leah Farrall of  Australia ’s
University of Sydney, writing in IHS Defense Security and Risk
Consulting.  Potential Beneficiary  And while Iraq is a potential beneficiary of the economic
sanctions aimed at curbing oil imports from Iran, one of the
country’s two major domestic divisions, between Sunni Kurds and
Sunni Arabs, runs through its northern Kirkuk oil field.  Iraq produced 2.76 million barrels of crude oil a day in
February, about double its production after the U.S. invasion in
March 2003, according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration. That’s compares with 2.6 million barrels a day
just before the invasion, according to the Centre for Global
Energy Studies in  London , still below the country’s full
capacity.  Iraq’s other historic fissure is between its long-
suppressed Shiite majority and the Sunni minority, and a day
after the last U.S. soldier left Iraq in December, those
tensions already were undermining its political system.  Death Squads  Maliki demanded the arrest of his Sunni vice president,
Tariq al-Hashimi, charging that he’d been running death squads.
Hashimi’s Sunni-backed Iraqiya Party, which ended a month-long
boycott of the political process in February, charges that
Maliki has politicized the judiciary and oversees a government
in which human-rights abuses and torture are endemic.  Hashimi sought refuge in Kurdistan. Kurds meanwhile, are
trying to navigate the Sunni-Shiite tensions and retain their
autonomy in northern Iraq, particularly over the right to
independently develop the oil and gas fields there.  “In the last year, Maliki has chipped away at safeguards
for democracy, stocking the country’s Human Rights Ministry with
loyalists and using the state’s anti-corruption offices to
target political enemies,” said Ned Parker, a fellow at the
 Council on Foreign Relations .  With U.S. backing, the Kurds have pushed for a meeting to
resolve the political tensions in Baghdad. That meeting will be
held April 5, Iraqi media have reported.  Power Grab  Maliki’s power grab is “very frightening to other Iraqis
out there, to the periphery, to the Kurds, to other Shia groups,
none of whom wanted him to achieve dictatorial power, which he
has,” Pollack said in a telephone interview. That’s triggered
some of the violence now sweeping Iraq, Pollack said.  By going after his main rivals in the Sunni-backed Iraqiya
party, Maliki also has “exacerbated tensions with  Saudi Arabia ,
 Turkey  and others,” said Ramzy Mardini of the Washington-based
Institute for the Study of War.  U.S. officials have met with Maliki to demand that he end
 Iran ’s use of Iraqi airspace to deliver weapons to Assad,
according to two participants in the discussions.  Even so, the Baghdad summit will be the first time Iraq has
hosted the event since 1990, and it marks several milestones.
For the first time since  Saddam Hussein  invaded  Kuwait , Iraq is
not on the roster of problems to be discussed. Libya, Yemen,
Tunisia and  Egypt  are sending new leaders raised to power by the
“Arab Spring” rebellion against autocratic rulers.  ‘Indebted to Iran’  Iraq has been moving to mend ties with its neighbors,
settling disputes with Kuwait, Egypt and Saudi Arabia, which
named its first ambassador to Baghdad in 20 years, though the
diplomat will be based in Amman, Jordan.  Beyond the fact that he is a Shiite like most Iranians,
Pollack said, Maliki “is very much indebted to Iran; they
engineered his appointment to the prime ministership.”  Mardini rejects allegations that Maliki’s stance on Syria,
a majority Sunni country ruled by the minority Alawite sect of
Shiism, is due to Iranian pressure.  “It is inherently in Maliki’s interest that Syria doesn’t
become a regime aligned with its regional rivals: Saudi Arabia,
Qatar,” he said in a telephone interview. “Syria’s armed
opposition may be Maliki’s enemies tomorrow.”  In the short term, the summit will be “a successful foray
for Iraq, even if there are no resolutions adopted,” Mardini
said. “It’s a symbolic victory for Maliki, and an opportunity
to mend fences.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  