-- Barclays Gas ETN Sinks as Credit Suisse VIX Note Crashes
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-03-27T20:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/barclays-gas-etn-plummets-as-credit-suisse-vix-note-crashes.html
A  Barclays Plc (BARC)  exchange-traded note
that traded 134 percent above the value of the natural-gas index
it’s tied to lost 47 percent of the premium in three days as
investors exit funds that diverge from underlying assets.  The  iPath Dow Jones-UBS Natural Gas Total Return Sub-Index
ETN  has plunged 29 percent since March 21 as its benchmark index
decreased 6.5 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Barclays suspended issuance of new shares in August 2009, which
may cause the notes “to trade at a premium or discount in
relation to their indicative value,” the bank said in a
statement at the time. The ETN fell 2.7 percent today to $3.66.  The note, which was trading at the highest premium to its
index among more than 1,000 U.S. exchange-traded products
yesterday, dropped as another  ETN (TVIX)  sold by  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
and linked to a measure of stock-market volatility fell 52
percent in the past four trading sessions.  “Everyone’s late on the first trade but are starting to
look for what else is out there that could be dangerous,” said
Peter Tchir, founder of TF Market Advisors in  New York . “It
would make sense that over the weekend people were running
numbers and we’re looking at all ETNs and ETFs trading over a
premium and are recommending selling those now.”  Kristin Friel, a spokeswoman for Barclays in New York,
declined to comment.  Rising Volatility  Investors who bought the Credit Suisse VelocityShares Daily
2x VIX Short-Term ETN to profit from rising volatility lost more
than $253 million when it dropped about 50 percent over two
days. The plunge began even before Credit Suisse announced on
March 22 that it would resume issuing shares.  The Zurich-based bank had stopped creating new shares of
the ETN on Feb. 21, unhinging the note’s price from the index
and leading to a premium over the indicative value that peaked
at 89 percent on March 21. The VIX note gained 19 percent today
to $6.97.  The Barclays ETN, which traded at more than a 100 percent
premium for almost three weeks starting March 5, began dropping
on March 20, the day after its price climbed to 134 percent more
than its index. It traded at a 53 percent premium to the index
today.  Exchange-traded products have come under scrutiny by
regulators and lawmakers during the past three years.  Flash Crash  The SEC examined whether they contributed to equity-market
volatility in 2010 and the 8.6 percent intraday plunge in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 stock  index  on May 6, 2010, known as the
“flash crash.” The  International Monetary Fund  said last year
that European exchange-traded funds that generate returns
through derivatives, so-called “synthetic” ETFs, add a layer
of complexity and risk to financial markets.  ETNs are unsecured bank debt backed by their issuer’s
credit, unlike exchange-traded funds, which hold assets. Banks
create and redeem shares of ETNs based on the level of demand
for the securities. That demand typically doesn’t affect the
price since the ETNs track the performance of an index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 