-- Barnes & Noble Wins Dismissal of 4 Directors From Lawsuit
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-03-27T20:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/barnes-noble-wins-dismissal-of-4-directors-from-lawsuit.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , the biggest
U.S. bookstore chain, won a judge’s dismissal of four company
directors alleged to have unfairly sided with founder Leonard Riggio in the company’s $596 million buyout of his college-
textbook firm.  Two other people named in a lawsuit, former directors
Lawrence S. Zilavy and Michael J. Del Giudice, must stand trial
along with the chairman and founder, Delaware Chancery Court
Judge Leo Strine ruled today at a hearing in Wilmington.  Saying there was no evidence they acted in bad faith,
Strine dismissed independent directors Irene Miller, Margaret Monaco and William Dillard II; along with Leonard’s brother,
Vice Chairman Stephen Riggio, who recused himself from the vote.  The Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement System,
a holder of company common stock, sued the board Aug. 17, 2009,
contending officials violated their duties and wasted corporate
assets in the sale. The suit seeking damages was filed on behalf
of the company. A trial is tentatively set to begin June 18.  The independent directors “had a strong interest in making
sure Barnes & Noble didn’t overpay” for the college book firm,
and “you can’t be personally liable merely for casting a
vote,” defendants’ lawyer Kenneth Nachbar told Strine.  Directors were beholden to  Leonard Riggio  through long-term
associations, recognized his plans for transition to digital
readers and “knew Mr. Riggio was the godfather of all this
technology,” countered plaintiff’s lawyer Pamela Tikellis.  Investors’ Argument  The investors argued that the board allowed Riggio to
dictate terms and timing of the 2009 buyout of Barnes & Noble
College Booksellers Inc. and didn’t force him to seek other
offers for the company to justify the purchase price.  Another Barnes & Noble shareholder,  G Asset Management LLC (0117933D) ,
offered this month to buy 51 percent of the college-bookstore
unit in a deal that values the subsidiary at $460 million as the
parent company considers options to boost its value.  Selling off the chain of 641 college bookstores would
enhance Barnes & Noble, which is “substantially undervalued,”
New York-based G Asset Management said in a March 16 letter to
the company’s board.  While Barnes & Noble operates about 700 retail locations
along with the college bookstores, its future growth lies in
electronic books. The company started its digital business in
2009 by selling e-books and releasing the Nook e-reader. The
company projects the Nook business will generate $1.5 billion in
sales in the fiscal year ending April 30, accounting for about
20 percent of its total revenue.  E-Book Sales  The retailer sells the second most e-books in the U.S.
after  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  It was the target of a takeover bid by the
billionaire  John Malone ’s Liberty Media Corp. last year. Liberty
invested $204 million in the company after dropping its bid.  Barnes & Noble also fended off a bid by the billionaire
investor  Ron Burkle  to invalidate its anti-takeover defenses and
clear the way for a proxy fight over board seats in 2010. Strine
concluded the so-called “poison-pill defense” didn’t unfairly
hamper Burkle’s effort to have his designees elected as
directors.  Investors filed their suits as so-called derivative
actions, which would return any recovery from insurance covering
directors to the bookseller’s coffers.  Mary Ellen Keating , a spokeswoman for Barnes & Noble,
declined to comment on the ruling in an e-mail message.  The case is In Re Barnes & Noble Stockholder Derivative
Litigation, CA No. 4813,  Delaware  Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 