-- Bats Share of U.S. Equity Trading Rebounds
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-03-27T21:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/bats-share-of-u-s-equity-trading-rebounds.html
Bats Global Markets Inc. (BATS) , whose
board is reviewing last week’s failed initial public offering,
saw its share of U.S. equity trading rise today.  Bats’s two exchanges handled 10.67 percent of U.S. volume
as of 5 p.m. New York time, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with 10.27 percent yesterday and 9.2
percent on March 23, when the Lenexa, Kansas-based company
failed to complete its IPO.  “If it were to decline consistently, then there’s going to
be a longer period of time where they need to regain
confidence,” Edward Wedbush, president of Wedbush Securities
Inc., said in a Bloomberg Television interview yesterday. His
firm’s parent company, Wedbush Inc., owns a stake in Bats.
“It’s my estimate that that will not happen, that the exchange
will do its normal percentage of business.”  Joe Ratterman, the chief executive officer, withdrew the
IPO after a computer malfunction kept Bats from trading on its
own platform and forced a halt in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s
biggest company by market value. Transactions in Apple and
trades for more than 1 million Bats shares were later voided. A
computer error related to IPO auctions caused the disruption,
according to Bats.  Exchanges, Dark Pools  The company’s share of U.S. trading amounted to 10.27
percent yesterday, or 0.77 point less than the 2012 average
through March 22, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Direct Edge
Holdings LLC, which also runs two American equity exchanges, saw
its  proportion  drop 0.7 point from the annual mean to 8.7
percent.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  was 0.47 percent less than
average at  20.76 percent , while  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  was 0.07 point
above at  23.66 percent , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading shifted yesterday to private venues known as dark
pools and securities firms’ own systems. Volume handled off
exchanges and tallied by so-called trade reporting facilities
was  35.46 percent  of the total, or 1.72 point more than the 2012
average prior to Bats’s failed IPO. The figure fell to 34.16
percent today.  “It’s great to see market share back in the normal range
and we remain thankful to our customers for their continued
support,”  Randy Williams , a Bats spokesman, wrote in an e-mail.  Board Meeting  Bats’s board planned to meet today to review the IPO,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter who
declined to be identified because the discussions are private.
Directors will also discuss a $100 million dividend to owners,
according to another person with direct knowledge. Bats approved
a cash dividend of $100 million “as a return of capital” to
shareholders on Feb. 22, “conditioned upon the successful
completion of this offering,” according to the Bats prospectus.  Ratterman said in a March 24 phone interview that it hadn’t
been paid. Stacie Fleming, a company spokeswoman, declined to
comment yesterday on the board meeting.  Underwriters including three of Bats’s owners, Morgan
Stanley, Citigroup Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG, priced 6.3
million shares on March 22 and the stock was ready to begin
trading a day later when one of its computers malfunctioned,
triggering events that ended with the IPO’s cancellation. While
the company reported its opening transaction for $15.25 a share
at 10:45 a.m. New York time on its website, feeds including
those sent to Bloomberg LP displayed different prices as a
result of the error related to the auction process.  Apple Shares  Compounding the confusion, a single transaction for 100
shares executed on a Bats venue briefly sent Apple, which has a
market value of $565.9 billion, down more than 9 percent,
setting off a circuit breaker that halted the stock everywhere
in the country for five minutes. The shares rebounded and the
errant trade at 10:57 a.m., along with all transactions in Bats
shares, were later voided.  “There are going to be isolated events at the different
market centers over time,” Ratterman said in a March 24
interview. “We’ve had historically very few instances where our
systems have gone down, but they have gone down in different
ways in the past like every other venue. I don’t think this is
anything new as much as it was under a bright spotlight.”  BZX Exchange, its main market, was accessible to users
99.94 percent of the time last year, according to a regulatory
filing. BYX Exchange, its second market, was available 99.998
percent of the time, the company said. The main market processed
an average of about 29,000 order messages per second.  “You may not see a huge hit in Bats’s volume, but this
certainly impacts their ability to grow market share in the
U.S.,” Christopher Nagy, managing director for order strategy
at TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. in Omaha,  Nebraska , said in a
phone interview. “It’s not a technology issue but a capability
issue -- the capability to bring an IPO to the market. Clearly
they failed in that paradigm.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  