-- Bats CEO Cedes Chairman Role as Board Said to Delay IPO
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-03-28T14:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/bats-ceo-ratterman-to-give-up-chairman-s-role-after-failed-ipo.html
Directors at Bats  Global Markets
Inc. (BATS)  won’t consider redoing the exchange operator’s initial
public offering for at least a quarter, according to a person
with direct knowledge of the matter.  The decision was made during a board meeting yesterday,
according to the person, who declined to be identified because
the talks were private. Bats said in a statement that Chief
Executive Officer Joe Ratterman will give up his chairman role
after the company withdrew the IPO on March 23 because its
computers couldn’t get the shares trading.  Randy Williams , a Bats spokesman, declined to comment on
the directors’ meeting.  “Splitting the two is the much favored approach,”  Charles Elson , director of the University of  Delaware ’s John L. Weinberg
Center for  Corporate Governance , said in a phone interview
yesterday. “It gives the board more authority,” he said.
“It’s something you do when there’s been controversy to buoy
investor confidence.”  Company founder Dave Cummings said on March 25 that Lenexa,
Kansas-based Bats should try the IPO again by the end of June.
Executive bonuses should be suspended at Bats, he also said that
day in an e-mail addressed to the “trading community.”  IPO Compensation  While directors yesterday discussed whether bonuses would
be paid, they didn’t make any decision and left it up to the
board’s compensation committee, the person said. The board said
that panel should weigh the IPO’s failure, the person said.  Ratterman and three executives are going to  Washington  this
week for discussions with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, according to the person. They plan to meet with
commissioners, the Office of Compliance Inspections and
Examinations, and executives with the Division of Trading and
Markets, the person said.  Ratterman, who became chairman in 2007, will keep the
positions of CEO and president and received the “unanimous
support” of directors in yesterday’s meeting, which was moved
up from next week, Bats said in a statement.  Bats described the “enhanced corporate governance
structure” after Ratterman spent days making public appearances
explaining the debacle, for which he took responsibility.
Pulling the IPO denied a payday for Wall Street firms such as
Morgan Stanley, Citigroup Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG, three
Bats owners who underwrote the deal.  Without Opposition  The CEO and chairman duties had been under discussion
previously, and yesterday’s decision was made without
opposition, according to the person familiar with the matter.  The company is likely to fill the role of chairman with
someone not currently on the board, another person with direct
knowledge of the meeting said. Exchange operators  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , both based in New York, have
different people in those roles.  “Joe continues to do a tremendous job as CEO of Bats,”
according to a statement attributed to the board. “We fully
support his leadership, vision and strategic direction as Bats
continues to enhance competition and foster innovation in
markets worldwide.”  The cancellation of the IPO left a $100 million dividend
that was conditioned on its completion unpaid to a group of
Bats’s owners, which also include automated-trading firms Getco
LLC and Tradebot Systems Inc., the estate of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and securities companies such as Bank of America
Corp. and Deutsche Bank AG. The directors decided the payout
won’t be made in the immediate future, the person said.  Bats saw its share of U.S. equity trading rise yesterday.
Its two exchanges handled 10.67 percent of U.S. volume as of 5
p.m.  New York  time, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with 10.27 percent on March 26 and 9.2 percent on
March 23, when the company failed to complete its IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  