-- Belka Won’t Risk Poland’s Reputation by Raising Rates Too Soon
-- B y   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d   a n d   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r
-- 2012-03-27T13:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/belka-won-t-risk-poland-s-reputation-by-raising-rates-too-soon.html
Governor  Marek Belka  said he would
rather not risk the Polish central bank’s reputation by raising
interest rates too soon, even if that means the “lesser
mistake” of being too late.  Belka spoke in a March 26 interview at the Narodowy Bank
Polski in Warsaw.  On the timing of rate increases:  “I’m not going to answer this question directly. The
interest-rate setting process is a collective one, and being the
chairman of the Monetary Policy Council, I’m particularly
reluctant to speak publicly about interest rates. Some other
members of the MPC are more explicit.  “The stronger the zloty, the less probable interest-rate
hikes are. So the strengthening of the Polish currency from
around 4.50 to the euro to 4.13 today gives us a little more
leeway, a little more time to wait. However, the fact that the
zloty is quite volatile doesn’t help us. Volatility in itself
adds to inflationary pressure.  “So don’t ask me whether we’re going to increase rates at
the next meeting. But clearly the mood is more inclined to
tightening monetary policy rather than loosening it.”  On the approach to rate moves:  “My approach is as follows: in times of instability and
all kinds of turbulence, you have to try to minimize mistakes.
And if you increase  interest rates  and then the economy weakens
dramatically, then you would probably be in a position where
you’d be forced to reverse the rate increase.  “Even the  European Central Bank  committed this kind of
mistake twice, in 2008 and again quite recently. With the
reputation that the ECB has, they can afford it. But I would
rather not risk our reputation. You can be too late, of course.
But being too late is probably less risky than being too hectic,
in the current climate.  “If the economy were to grow more and more strongly,
particularly if the technical recession in Germany ends, then
not increasing interest rates, if inflation remains stubbornly
over 4 percent, would probably be a mistake. But being too late
is probably a lesser mistake than increasing interest rates and
then having to reverse the move. This is the kind of calculation
that I have in mind when I look at the interest rates.”  On the impact of higher rates on growth:  “You’re right that a small rate increase has a limited
impact on companies. But I wouldn’t underestimate the impact of
such a move on  consumer credit  - on consumer finance and on
mortgage credit. So it would have some impact on the economy.
And don’t underestimate the effect on expectations and possibly
on the exchange rate.  “Here I would say the most important thing is not to
surprise the market. Investors should be given time to hedge
themselves, to prepare for possible change. So looking at what
the market expects makes sense from this point of view.”  On calls by colleagues for higher rates:  “Some members of the Monetary Policy Council have already
announced that this is what they want. Some members think that
the interest-rate level is simply too low, that no matter what,
interest rates should be higher. This is an echo of pre-crisis
estimates of the ‘natural’ interest rate, if a ‘natural’ rate
exists.  “ Poland  has a monetary policy that is perhaps loose by our
historical standards, but quite restrictive if you compare it
with the  euro zone , with the  Czech Republic  or even Denmark or
 Sweden , not to mention the U.K. The interest-rate differential
is quite high between Poland and the rest of the European
economies, and we probably shouldn’t go too much further.”  On chances of rate cuts:  “We see a slowdown coming, but if there is a slowdown and
inflation, even if it is almost entirely due to external
factors, then this is a situation in which you shouldn’t expect
an interest-rate reduction.  “You’ll have to let me be a little convoluted here. Many
analysts on the market, both inside and outside Poland, expect
us to cut rates. But they’re probably much less optimistic about
the Polish economy generally. They still see Polish growth
slowing to 2 percent this year, which may happen. But my gut
feeling is that it won’t slow down to 2 percent, and that 3
percent growth is more likely. This isn’t something that we’re
satisfied with, but it certainly takes some of the inflationary
heat off the economy.”  On inflation:  “We’re very serious about bringing inflation back to the
target as soon as possible. We’re quite patient, by Polish
standards, but inflation cannot stay at over 4 percent forever.  “Of course we’re concerned about inflation- if anyone is
worried, it’s the people in this building. But you know what we
look at is the internal structure of the inflation indexes. Most
of the inflationary pressure is coming from abroad: from oil,
from fluctuations in the zloty  exchange rate . So long as we
don’t see any of the infamous second-round effects, we won’t
panic.  “We’re concerned and we’re impatient, as the headline
inflation rate seems to have stabilized stubbornly at close to 4
percent, which is obviously beyond the MPC’s tolerance limit.
But it doesn’t look like inflation is getting out of hand.  On economic growth:  “Two weeks ago we produced our four-monthly inflation and
GDP forecasts, and it turned out that we were quite optimistic.
I remember when everyone was putting growth in Poland this year
at 2 or 2.5 percent and that was considered fairly optimistic.
Basically, we’ve confirmed our own forecasts, and at the same
time, the think tanks and investment banks are upgrading theirs.
And now we’re where the consensus is.  “Our own, and particularly foreign analysts,
underestimated the dynamics of the Polish economy. It hinges on
cost competitiveness, that’s what it comes down to in the short
run.  “Everybody is enthusiastic about  Germany ’s success in
containing unit labor costs, in containing wages, and so on. We
have gained in terms of cost competitiveness against Germany and
against everybody else. And this being the case, our companies
are probably quite capable of withstanding slow growth in
western  Europe . Of course, we’d be better off if there were a
recovery, but if there’s a slowdown that doesn’t lead to an
implosion of trade as there was in 2008 and 2009, our companies
will still do quite decently.  “The slowdown in Germany doesn’t really hurt our economy
too much. First, exports to Germany account for 10 percent of
our GDP; in the case of the Czech Republic, it’s about 25
percent. Also, the structure of Polish exports to Germany is
slightly different to countries like Hungary or Slovakia. Most
of the exports from those countries are within the global
distribution channels, the Suzukis, the Volkswagens, and so on.
So if something goes wrong in the global economy or in  China ,
those exports suffer.  “This is also quite important for us. But almost half of
Polish exports are exports from our domestic companies. They
produce final goods,  consumer goods , mostly, but also
construction materials and things like that. They’re not high-
tech, but that means they’re probably less sensitive to
fluctuations. So we know a little bit more about the Polish
economy and we know about its resistance to crises, and about
our cost competitiveness. And that’s basically what’s driving
our economy forward.”  On the policy mix:  “Policy makers in Poland generally have it quite easy
compared with many of our colleagues in other countries. From
this point of view, Poland is on a different planet. We haven’t
been through a crisis. This also has a downside because people
aren’t willing to make any sacrifices or accept tougher
measures, because -- why should they?  “How come Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  can suddenly
raise the  retirement age  and it takes such an agonizing effort
from the Polish government, when you’d expect the opposite?
Poles have lived through dramatic changes in the last 20 years
and they’re accustomed to it. Still, most of the government’s
reform program, which was announced in the fall of last year, is
on track, so I don’t think we’re in any danger.  “For monetary policy, most important will be the pace of
fiscal consolidation. And it’s going quite well. Basically all
the measures that have the potential to increase revenue have
been enacted. Raising the retirement age to 67 is very important
for the image of the government and maybe the personal position
of the prime minister, because he’s raised the stakes so high.  “But from the point of view of near-term fiscal
consolidation, its effect is almost zero, or at least not much
more than as a signal for the markets. Everything necessary for
fiscal consolidation this year is in place, so now it all
depends on the pace of economic activity. The budget is assuming
2.5 percent growth, so there’s no reason to be afraid that the
fiscal targets won’t be attained.”  On the ECB’s longer-term refinancing operations:  “The immediate impact of LTRO was positive. Sentiment
toward  emerging markets  changed for the better; the zloty
strengthened; the  bond market  strengthened, too. So from a
macroeconomic perspective we shouldn’t be worried. Now, some
Polish banks have complained that the measures violate the rules
of equal competition, which is true. But the problem is that
without this, we would probably see some deleveraging on the
part of foreign banks, and when you look at the credit
aggregates over the last two or three years, we don’t see any
deleveraging in Poland at all. That’s contrary to what happened
in countries such as Hungary or  Romania  or the Baltic States.  “You need time to do anything. Whether you use the time
properly is another issue. As I understand, in  Spain , it’s not
so much a case of fiscal profligacy or an unwillingness to
pursue reforms or do things that are unpleasant. But we do see
some signs of the economy spiraling down. The clearest case is
 Greece , where the program seems to be failing not because the
Greeks aren’t doing the right things. If the economy is
contracting at a rate of 5 or 7 percent a year, you can forget
about any fiscal targets. To a certain extent we have seen the
same in Spain. So maybe the fiscal targets should be pushed
back, if necessary.  “Fortunately, this is not an immediate concern for the
National Bank of Poland or for Poland itself. But in its
entirety, it’s a big headache for us. We’re concerned about
every bit of bad information coming from western Europe, that’s
for sure.”  On the euro:  “Joining the euro zone isn’t an issue at the moment.
Nobody wants us there. We aren’t rushing into the euro. We don’t
meet all the Maastricht criteria. We aren’t in ERM2, which we
have to be for two years ahead of adopting the euro. Also, the
euro area is undergoing repairs, so we have to wait and see what
comes out of that. It’s not an issue for the next several
years.”  Is Poland hurt by higher borrowing costs than the euro area’s:  “The main danger of embracing the euro prematurely is that
an economy like Poland’s, which is in the process of catching
up, would probably react to interest rates that are too low
given structure of the economy. It would be prone to
accumulating all kinds of bubbles. This is something we
appreciate much better than we did in the run-up to the crisis.  “One qualification: before the crisis, there was this
famous halo of being in the euro, meaning that Greek bonds paid
50 basis points over Bunds. Now it’s different. Now, even in the
euro area, Polish bonds would be priced differently from Bunds.
The spreads would narrow, but it wouldn’t be to zero or to a few
basis points. So the market is now more sophisticated in
differentiating between countries in the currency union. This
makes the benefits less obvious, but it also mitigates the
dangers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McQuaid in Warsaw at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Winkler in New York at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  