-- Belka Sees No Rush to Raise Rates in Poland as Growth Slows
-- B y   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d   a n d   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r
-- 2012-03-27T15:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/belka-sees-no-rush-to-raise-rate-in-poland-as-growth-decelerates.html
Polish central bank Governor Marek Belka signaled he’s prepared to wait before raising interest
rates to avoid the risk of having to reverse the move should the
economy slow.  “I would rather not risk our reputation,” Belka said in
an interview in Warsaw yesterday. “Being too late is probably a
lesser mistake than increasing interest rates and then having to
reverse the move. This is the kind of calculation that I have in
mind when I look at interest rates.”  Investors are watching the Polish central bank for the time
of a rate increase. While Belka said the Monetary Policy
Council’s 10 members are becoming more “impatient” with
inflation above their target, he also said borrowing costs are
“quite restrictive.”  The Narodowy Bank Polski left its benchmark  interest rate 
at 4.5 percent for a ninth month on March 7 as inflation
remained above the 3.5 percent upper end of the central bank’s
tolerance range since January 2011.  “The message from Belka is that he is happy to stay pat
just a while yet,” Tim Ash, head of emerging markets research
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London , wrote in e-mailed
comments today. “Belka is the key swing voter and should be
listened to.”  Zloty Retreats  The zloty retreated after Belka’s comments to 4.1483 per
euro at 5 p.m. in Warsaw, down 0.6 percent on the day. That’s
the steepest decline among more than 20 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The Polish currency has gained 7.7 percent against the euro
this year, the world’s second-best performance behind the
Hungarian forint. Traders cut their outlook for interest rates
this year to the lowest in a month on March 20, three days after
Belka said the central bank was becoming “a bit more hawkish.”  “We’re quite patient, by Polish standards, but inflation
cannot stay at over 4 percent forever,” said Belka, 60, a
former prime minister and finance minister. “If inflation
remains high for too long, it may become embedded in
inflationary expectations.”  Consumer-price growth accelerated to 4.3 percent in
February from 4.1 percent the previous month. Households expect
the rate to reach 5 percent in one year, a central bank survey
showed last month.  ‘Perhaps Loose’  Poland ’s benchmark  rates  are “perhaps loose” by the
country’s historical standards, “but quite restrictive if you
compare them with the  euro zone , with the  Czech Republic  or even
 Denmark ,” Belka said.  “The interest-rate differential is quite high between
Poland and the rest of the European economies, and we probably
shouldn’t go much further,” Belka said, reiterating that rate
increases are more likely than cuts.  In the 10-member Monetary Policy Council, “clearly the
mood is more inclined to tightening monetary policy rather than
loosening it,” Belka said. April would be the “right moment”
to increase Polish rates,  Adam Glapinski , a member of the rate
panel, told the PAP news service in an interview yesterday.  Poland’s high inflation rate is “temporary” and recent
data, including a slowdown in industrial output to a seven-month
low of 4.6 percent in February, have changed the outlook for the
coming months, Belka told Dziennik Gazeta Prawna in an interview
published today.  ‘Cooling Down’  “Governor Belka is cooling down some of the more ardent
hawks,” ING economists Mateusz Szczurek,  Rafal Benecki , and
Grzegorz Ogonek wrote today in an e-mailed note. “We’d assumed
he’d try to persuade colleagues calling for rate increases to
hold off in April.”  ING is recommending clients sell two-year zloty interest
rate swaps, which fell to 4.84 percent at 4:08 p.m. in Warsaw,
down 2 basis points from their level before Belka’s comments
appeared at 2:19 p.m.  “In times of instability and all kinds of turbulence, you
have to try to minimize mistakes,” Belka said. “If you
increase interest rates and then the economy weakens
dramatically, then you’d probably be in a position where you’d
be forced to reverse” it. “Even the  European Central Bank 
committed this kind of mistake twice, in 2008 and again quite
recently. With the reputation the ECB has, they can afford it.”  GDP Growth  Belka didn’t say how long the central bank should wait to
increase rates. It would be a mistake for policy makers not to
increase borrowing costs if the economy “were to grow more and
more strongly, particularly if the technical recession in
 Germany  ends, and inflation remains over 4 percent,” he said.  Gross domestic product  grew 4.3 percent last year and will
expand 2.5 percent in 2012, the fastest among the 27  European
Union members , the European Commission forecast on Feb. 23. The
country of 38.5 million is slowing as the euro area contracts
because of austerity measures aimed at curbing debt.  While Poland sells 54 percent of its exports to euro
states, its companies are price-competitive, which makes them
less vulnerable, Belka said, adding that even a “moderate”
slowdown “certainly takes some of the inflationary heat off the
economy.” Germany’s Ifo business climate index rose to 109.8 in
March, beating the median forecast of 109.6 in a Bloomberg news
survey.  “I’m not concerned too much about an economic slowdown”
being “as deep as some fear,” Belka said, noting that the
central bank’s own GDP growth forecast for this year is 3
percent. “The slowdown in Germany doesn’t really hurt our
economy too much. Analysts underestimated the dynamics of the
Polish economy. It hinges on cost effectiveness, that’s what it
comes down to.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McQuaid in Warsaw at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Winkler in New York at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  