-- Bentley or $570,000 Rolls? The Choice of Newest Maharajas
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-03-27T19:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/bentley-or-570-000-rolls-the-choice-of-newest-maharajas.html
Bentley Motors Ltd. and Rolls-Royce
Motor Cars Ltd. are preparing to be occupied by India’s 0.01
percent.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Bentley will announce this year plans to
increase dealerships in the country, its second most important
Asian market after  China , said Amy Arora, brand director at
distributor Exclusive Motors Pvt. Rolls-Royce said the  BMW AG (BMW) 
unit may triple its number of showrooms this year to six in
India, home to the youngest person to ever buy a  Ghost  sedan,
which starts at 29 million rupees ($570,000).  Their expansion illustrates the growing affluence of the
burgeoning rich in India, where super-luxury vehicle sales are
expected to quadruple by the end of the decade. While the  World
Bank  estimates the majority of Indians live below the  poverty
line , CLSA Asia-Pacific estimates the number of millionaires
will surge to 403,000 by 2015 from 173,000 in 2010.  “India’s new rich are looking to get a car that’s
different from the now-common Mercedes and BMW,” said  Deepesh Rathore , the managing director for IHS Automotive in India.
“Growth at the top of the pyramid is much faster than at the
bottom and so we’ll see many more millionaires rising in India,
by hook or by crook.”  Bentley, the maker of the  Continental Flying Spur  that
starts at 21.4 million rupees, sponsored this month’s Indian
Masters tournament of polo -- the pastime of the nation’s
Maharajas a century ago -- as part of its stepped up campaign to
attract the nation’s elite, Arora said. Bentley, which has
dealerships in  New Delhi  and Mumbai, is looking to expand into
Hyderabad and Chennai next year, she said.  Maharaja Orders  Rolls-Royce, which promoted its cars in the Maharaja of
Jodhpur polo tournament, said its ties to India’s former royals
run deeper. In the 40 years leading to India’s independence in
1947, Maharajas ordered the bulk of the 1,000 Rolls-Royces
shipped to the country, making India one of the company’s
biggest postwar clients, according to Herfried Hasenoehrl, the
Singapore-based general manager for  emerging markets .  The number of super-luxury cars -- including Ferrari,  Aston
Martin ,  Lamborghini , Bentley and Rolls Royce models -- sold in
India will jump to about 800 by 2020, compared with 180 last
year, according to IHS Automotive.  “Ultra-luxury cars such as Bentleys or Aston Martins are
aspirational products and they come with social recognition,”
said Lalit Choudary, director at Performance Cars, which
distributes Aston Martins in India. “With the global economy
picking up, sales have picked up.”  Youngest Rolls Customer  According to the latest World Wealth Report from Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch and Capgemini SA, India’s pool of
high-net-worth individuals -- those with at least $1 million of
investable assets -- grew the fastest among the dozen countries
with the most millionaires during 2010.  Among them was a 24-year-old who became the youngest
customer to purchase a Rolls-Royce Ghost, according to
Hasenoehrl, who declined to identify the buyer.  “Rolls-Royce has an extraordinary relationship with India;
in fact, we affectionately see it as something of a second
spiritual home,” Hasenoehrl said.  Rolls-Royce, which has dealerships in Delhi and  Mumbai ,
plans to add a showroom in Hyderabad in the third quarter and
Chandigarh the following quarter, Hasenoehrl said. The company
may add two more this year depending on negotiations with
potential partners, he said.  Record Sales  While the company doesn’t break down  India (INVSTOTL)  sales, the
country has the company’s second-largest number of dealerships
in  Asia  Pacific after China, Hasenoehrl said. Globally,
deliveries jumped 31 percent to 3,538 cars last year, beating
the previous record set in 1978 by 191 vehicles. China became
its biggest market in 2011, three years ahead of schedule,
according to the company.  Bentley, which expects China to become its biggest market
this year, reported global vehicle deliveries rose 37 percent to
7,003. Arora declined to give India sales figures.  The more mainstream luxury carmakers --  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Mercedes-Benz, Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and VW’s Audi -- are
also gaining. Growth in deliveries of premium vehicles in India
will climb 32 percent to 161,000 units next year, surpassing
Russia and  Spain , according to estimates at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. this month.  Widening Gap  While India’s affluence may have expanded alongside the
economy, which has grown sixfold since 1993 and now ranks third
in Asia behind China and  Japan , the trend in vehicle sales also
illustrates the nation’s widening wealth gap.  Total sales of cars, excluding utility vehicles and vans,
may increase 0 percent to 2 percent in India during the year
ended March 31, headed for the slowest growth in nine years, as
the highest  interest rates  in more than three years damp demand
in a nation where almost 80 percent of cars are bought with bank
loans, according to the  Society of Indian Automobile
Manufacturers .  According to IHS’s Rathore, demand for super-luxury cars
may be immune to slowing economic conditions thanks to another
burgeoning trend in  India : vanity.  “In the past, people did not want to show off their
wealth, as it attracted attention,” Rathore said. “Today,
people have the wealth and don’t mind spending it, and are no
longer hesitant about showing it off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 