-- Bernanke Says Too Early for Victory on U.S. Recovery
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-03-27T22:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/bernanke-says-too-early-to-declare-victory-on-recovery.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said unemployment remains too high, the recovery in the
 U.S. economy  isn’t assured and policy makers don’t rule out any
further options to boost growth.  “It’s far too early to declare victory,” Bernanke said,
according to a transcript of an interview with ABC News anchor
Diane Sawyer provided by the network. “The recent news has been
good. But I think we need to be cautious and make sure this is
sustainable. And -- we haven’t quite yet got to the point where
we can be completely confident that we’re on a track to full
recovery.”  Asked if another round of quantitative easing, or large-
scale bond purchases, remains “on the table,” the 58-year-old
Fed chief said, “we don’t take any options off the table.” He
added: “We have to be prepared to respond to however the
economy evolves.”  The remarks, airing on “World News with  Diane Sawyer ” at
6:30 p.m. on the ABC Television Network, expand on a speech by
Bernanke yesterday in Arlington,  Virginia , in which he said the
fall in the jobless rate to 8.3 percent may reflect “a reversal
of the unusually large layoffs that occurred during late 2008
and over 2009.” Significant further improvement in reducing
unemployment will probably require faster growth, he said.  Defending Bond Purchases  The interview is Bernanke’s first sit-down television
appearance since comments by him on CBS’s Corp.’s “60 Minutes”
in December 2010 in defense of the central bank’s decision the
previous month to purchase $600 billion of government debt in a
move dubbed QE2 for the second round of quantitative easing.  Bernanke said in the interview being broadcast today “it
could still be a few more years” before unemployment returns to
normal levels, and “until we get faster growth than we’ve been
seeing, it is probably gonna take a while still.”  The Fed chairman declined to comment when asked if he would
serve out his whole term until January 2014. “I’m not thinking
about the future,” Bernanke said, adding he is focused on
meeting the central bank’s mandate to ensure full employment and
stable prices.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  in a March 13 meeting
decided to keep policy unchanged and maintain the main  interest
rate  close to zero at least through late 2014. Unemployment is
still “elevated” even after recent improvements in the job
market, the FOMC said in a statement. Richmond Fed President
 Jeffrey Lacker  dissented because he doesn’t anticipate that
economic conditions will warrant exceptionally low rates for so
long, the statement said.  Conflicting Assessments  Bernanke’s other colleagues on the FOMC have offered
conflicting assessments of the need for further monetary policy
steps to boost the economy.  Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said today that
“should growth slow down more than is expected, more policy
accommodation could be advisable.”  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  on March 22 went
further, saying that “clearly, more accommodation would be
appropriate” due to high unemployment.  In contrast,  James Bullard , president of the St. Louis Fed,
and Atlanta’s  Dennis Lockhart  said last week that the improving
U.S. economy is reducing the need for additional easing. The Fed
has held interest rates near zero since 2008 and purchased $2.3
trillion in bonds to spur growth after unemployment rose to as  Fisher, Accommodation  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said today in
Choudrant,  Louisiana , that “I don’t believe we need further
accommodation.”  Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy with
Lockhart voting this year, Bullard, Rosengren and Evans voting
next year, and Fisher voting in 2014.  An improving job market has helped keep  consumer confidence 
close to the highest level in a year in March as a growing
number of Americans said they planned to buy cars, homes and
appliances.  The Conference Board’s index was 70.2 this month, in line
with the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, down from a
revised 71.6 reading in February, according to the New York-
based research group. Another report today showed  home prices 
dropped at a slower pace in January, signaling stabilization in
housing that may begin to brighten moods.  The best six months of job growth since 2006, unemployment
at a three-year low, and stock-market gains are giving Americans
the means to withstand higher costs at the gas pump. A pickup in
buying plans this month shows a sustained optimism may keep
driving  consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent
of the economy.  ‘Big Concern’  In his interview today, Bernanke said that housing remains
“a big concern for us,” and “we’re not really yet in a full-
fledged housing recovery.”  Bernanke cited gasoline prices as a “moderate” risk to
economic growth. Gas prices have risen to $3.90 a gallon as of
yesterday from $3.28 at the end of 2011, according to the
American Automobile Association.  “We’ll see a little bit higher inflation the next few
months because of the higher gas prices,” Bernanke said.
“We’ll see consumers with a little less income to spend”
though not so much as to “stall the recovery,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  