-- Rosengren Favors More Easing if Unemployment Stays High
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-03-27T19:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/bernanke-says-accommodative-policy-needed.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said the U.S. central bank may need to
ease monetary policy if unemployment stays too high.  “If real GDP does not grow more rapidly and unemployment
remains at its current unacceptably high level, monetary policy
may need to be more accommodative,” Rosengren said today in
 London . The Fed has “flexibility in the response of monetary
policy” as the unemployment rate persists at 8.3 percent and
given the likelihood the central bank will “undershoot” its
inflation target, he said.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday that while a recent
decline in the jobless rate is encouraging, continued
accommodative policy will be needed to achieve further progress.
The  unemployment rate  held last month at a three-year low.  Any new Fed asset purchase program to stimulate economic
growth may be targeted at reviving the housing market, Rosengren
said in response to audience questions.  U.S. real estate is “still weak” and a drag on the
recovery, so “I would be very comfortable should it be needed
that we focus on mortgage backed securities” in any new bond
purchase program by the Fed, Rosengren said.  Risks to the economic outlook include rising oil prices,
which “could derail a fragile recovery,” and U.S. fiscal
policy, “which could get very contractionary” early next year,
Rosengren said to the National Institute for Economic and Social
Research.  ‘Very Weak’  Recent economic reports show “improved financial market
conditions and continued -- albeit painfully slow -- progress in
labor markets,” he said. Still, “the spending data have been
very weak” and suggest “recent improvements are probably
unsustainable” with U.S. economic growth at around a 2 percent
level.  “It may take several quarters” to determine whether the
strength shown by markets and employment can be sustained, he
said.  The Boston Fed official, 54, cited weakness in the U.S.
housing market and state and local government spending as
weighing on growth. Formerly the head of banking supervision and
regulation at the bank, Rosengren doesn’t vote this year on
monetary policy.  “Should growth slow down more than is expected, more
policy accommodation could be advisable,” he said.  ‘Reasonable’ Period  “Even if growth should improve more than expected in the
U.S., the country will likely remain far from what anyone would
consider full employment,” he said. “So in my view policy
accommodation should only be removed once it is clear that”
full employment and stable prices “can be achieved within a
reasonable period of time.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at
1,417.23 at 2:47 p.m. in  New York . Yields on 10-year Treasury
notes fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.19
percent.  First-time  claims  for  unemployment insurance  decreased by
5,000 to 348,000 in the week ended March 17, the fewest since
February 2008. About 1.2 million jobs were created in the past
six months, the most since the same period ended May 2006, Labor
Department figures show.  Rosengren’s consideration of further easing has been echoed
by other Fed officials.  While economic reports have improved, it is “far too soon
to conclude that we are out of the woods” and “nothing has
been decided” on more bond purchases, New York Fed President
William C. Dudley said March 19.  Too High  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said March 22 that
“clearly, more accommodation would be appropriate” with
unemployment too high.  In contrast,  James Bullard , president of the St. Louis Fed,
and Atlanta’s  Dennis Lockhart  said last week that the improving
 U.S. economy  is reducing the need for additional easing. The Fed
has held  interest rates  near zero since 2008 and purchased $2.3
trillion in bonds to spur growth after unemployment rose to as
high as 10 percent in 2009.  The U.S. economy expanded at a 3 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, the fastest pace in more than a year, as
households spent more freely. Growth will probably slow to 2
percent this quarter, according to the median of 72 economists’
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey from March 9 to March 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  