-- Billionaire Batista in Talks to Sell $1 Billion EBX Stake
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-03-27T19:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/billionaire-batista-in-talks-to-sell-1-billion-ebx-stake.html
Eike Batista , who agreed to sell a
$2 billion stake in his EBX Group Co. to Abu Dhabi’s Mubadala
Development Co., is talking with other sovereign-wealth funds
about receiving a further $1 billion investment to boost growth.  “There are other funds who are interested in coming in,”
the Brazilian billionaire said late yesterday by telephone from
Rio de Janeiro, without giving more details. “I don’t want to
dilute myself, I just want to have enough cash to do everything
my dreams take to. We want to be extremely comfortable.”  Batista is raising cash to develop his oil and mining
assets and diversify into technology and entertainment.
Yesterday’s deal to sell Mubadala 5.63 percent of EBX, a holding
company that contains publicly traded crude producer  OGX
Petroleo e Gas Participacoes  and shipbuilder  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB#) ,
implies a value of $33.5 billion for Batista’s remaining stake.  The Brazilian mining and energy magnate has seen his net
worth surge 17.6 percent this year to $26.5 billion, making him
the 11th richest person on Earth, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index, a daily ranking of the world’s wealthiest.  The Mubadala sale would potentially propel him to 10th
place on the index when the deal is completed on April 20.  Overtake Slim  Batista, 55, in an interview earlier this month, reiterated
his goal to overtake  Carlos Slim , currently the world’s richest
man with a net worth of $70.7 billion, by 2015. Batista’s
fortune fell $375 million yesterday after shares of OGX, his
largest holding, fell 2.4 percent in  Sao Paulo  trading.  “Imagine me getting my engine and adding another turbo
charger,” Batista said of yesterday’s deal and the boost to his
wealth it’s given him in his attempts to overtake Slim.  Under the terms of the transaction, Mubadala will receive a
5.63 percent indirect stake in each of his publicly traded and
closely held companies, Batista said in the interview. The fund
will also own that stake in any of EBX’s new ventures, he said.  Batista is raising money to start businesses in industries
ranging from fertilizers to precious metals while making
investments in his existing commodity companies, including iron-
ore producer  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA (MMXM3) , power-generation
company  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3) , and port developer  LLX Logistica SA. (LLXL3)   OGX, which has a market value of 50.2 billion reais,
 dropped  2 percent to 15.52 reais in Sao Paulo at 4:13 p.m. OSX
 fell  1.6 percent to 16.93 reais while MMX  rose  0.2 percent to
9.42 reais. LLX  declined  0.8 percent, and MPX gained 0.4
percent.  IPO Plans  Batista is proceeding with plans to sell shares in an
initial public offering of gold explorer AUX and real-estate
developer unit REX, potentially as soon as this year, he said.  The billionaire said earlier this month he may take on
loans to fund a $1 billion cash injection in OSX, potentially
adding to the $1.4 billion in debt he took on to buy Ventana
Gold Corp. last year.  Batista is considering investing $2.5 billion in a plant to
make electronic screens in  Brazil  through a joint venture with
Foxconn Technology Group, a maker of metal casings for Apple
Inc., he said Feb. 15. In October, EBX signed an agreement with
 Egypt ’s Orascom Construction Industries for a fertilizers
venture that may require $3 billion of investment.  EBX has entered the catering-services market through NRX-
Newrest, a joint venture with Newrest Group Holding, and also
started IMX, a partnership with IMG Worldwide Inc. focused on
sports and arena management in Brazil.  Batista said yesterday is no longer interested in entering
the coffee industry after EBX said earlier this year the magnate
was studying “business opportunities” in that market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  or
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  