-- BP Gains Access to Liquids-Rich Ohio Shale With 84,000 Acres
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-03-27T15:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/bp-leases-84-000-acres-in-liquids-rich-ohio-shale-formations.html
BP Plc (BP/) ,  Europe ’s second-largest oil
producer, entered into the Utica shale formation in Ohio with a
deal to lease 84,000 acres of land for an undisclosed price.  BP signed an agreement with the Associated Landowners of
the Ohio Valley, which represents mineral owners in the Utica
and Point Pleasant area, for future oil and gas production, the
company said in an e-mailed statement. While terms of the deal
are confidential, the basin may be a “potentially significant”
liquids-rich gas source, it said.  The boom in extracting hydrocarbons from shale by grinding
underground rocks has turned the U.S. into the world’s largest
gas producer. Prospects for shale oil promise to cut U.S.
dependence on imported energy. Hess Corp. in September paid
about $750 million for 85,000 acres on the Utica formation.  “We like the prospectivity of where we are, and it’s the
liquids component that drove us there,” Tim Harrington, head of
BP’s North American gas unit, told journalists on a conference
call today. He declined to comment on the cost of the deal or on
whether the price of land in the Utica shale is rising.  BP edges out  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  as the seventh-largest
leaseholder in the Utica formation with this latest transaction,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  Range
Resources Corp. (RRC)  and  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  dominate the
prospect with about 700,000 and 407,000 acres, respectively.  Ohio’s Department of Natural Resources estimates Utica may
hold as much as 5.5 billion barrels of oil and 15.7 trillion
cubic feet of natural gas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  