-- BP Sells North Sea Gas Assets to Perenco for $400 Million
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-03-27T15:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/bp-sells-north-sea-gas-assets-to-perenco-for-400-million.html
BP Plc (BP/) ,  Europe ’s second-largest oil
company, sold natural-gas assets in the U.K. North Sea to
Perenco U.K. Ltd. for $400 million.  BP offered the fields for sale more than a year ago as part
of its $38 billion divestment plan to shore up finances after
the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill, the worst in U.S. history.
The assets sold today produce the equivalent of about 25,000
barrels of oil a day and bring disposals to $23 billion, BP said
in a statement.  BP fell 2.2 percent to 471.4 pence in London today. The
Sunday Times newspaper reported on March 25 that the fields,
which produce gas in the southern half of the  North Sea  and ship
it to the U.K., could fetch 2 billion pounds ($3.2 billion).  “The price looks a little light, but this is a really
small transaction for them,” said Stuart Joyner, an analyst at
Investec Securities Ltd. “It’s good news that they’re edging
forward on their disposal program.”  BP produces more than 200,000 barrels of oil a day from the
North Sea and, together with partners, has planned $10 billion
of investment in the region over the next five years. The
company received permission in October to develop the Clair
Ridge project west of  Scotland ’s Shetland Islands.  “Perenco is committed to investing in and developing
southern gas assets beyond BP’s plans, ultimately providing a
longer-term future for the assets and the people who work
there,” said Trevor Garlick, head of BP’s North Sea unit.
“Actively managing our portfolio allows us to concentrate our
people, capabilities and investment on sustaining BP’s business
in the North Sea for the long term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  