-- Tombini Says Tight Jobs Market Can Absorb Faster Brazil Growth
-- B y   B i l l   F a r i e s
-- 2012-03-27T21:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/brazil-labor-market-can-accommodate-faster-growth-tombini-says.html
Brazil ’s labor market, which is
already operating near full employment, has room to handle
faster economic growth without stoking  inflation , central bank
President Alexandre Tombini said.  “The labor market is tight but the use of the labor market
is not as tight as the headline figure,” Tombini said at
Bloomberg’s emerging markets forum in Miami today. “There has
been a decline in working hours and some segments of the
Brazilian economy have given compulsory holidays for workers.”  Carmakers including Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz and General
Motors Co are among manufacturers that have ordered mandatory
worker furloughs in Brazil this year as assembly lines are idled
by the weak economy.  Growth (BZGDGDP4)  in the world’s sixth-biggest economy
slowed last year to 2.7 percent, less than  Germany  and trailing
much of  Latin America , amid the European debt crisis.  Since August, the central bank has reduced the benchmark
 interest rate  five times in a bid to revive the economy, saying
in the minutes to its March meeting that there is a high
probability borrowing costs will be reduced to slightly above
the historic low of 8.75 percent. The government also extended
yesterday for three months tax cuts on washing machines,
refrigerators and other appliances in exchange for promises to
preserve jobs in the industrial sector.  Accelerating Growth  As a result of these efforts, growth should accelerate in
the second half of the year, Tombini said. Inventory levels that
were depleted during last year’s slowdown also need to be
replenished, meaning that any pick-up in demand will be met with
increased production, he added.  Even as growth looks poised to accelerate, wholesale and
producer prices are behaving well, indicating that “inflation
has been on a clear downward trend for a while,” Tombini said.
Inflation, which has remained above the government’s 4.5 percent
target since August 2010, stood at 5.61 percent in mid-March.  “A growth pick up is not incompatible with inflation
converging and stabilizing around, hovering around, the midpoint
of the inflation target,” Tombini said.  Analysts may disagree, and already see the jobless rate at
levels inconsistent with stable inflation.  The jobless rate hit a record low 4.7 percent in December
and averaged 5.9 percent in the 12 months through February.
Economists interviewed by the bank in February estimate the
NAIRU, or non-accelerating inflation rate of unemployment, to be
6.5 percent.  Brazil’s economy slowed less than analysts expected in
January as demand for goods and services helped offset a 2.1
percent  contraction  in industrial output.  Brazil’s seasonally-adjusted economic activity index, a
proxy for gross domestic product, fell 0.13 percent in January,
the central bank said yesterday. Analysts expected a 0.5 percent
decline, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The world’s sixth-largest economy will expand 3.23 percent
this year, according to the median forecast in a March 23
central bank survey of about 100 economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Faries in  Buenos Aires  at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ,  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  