-- Broccoli-Bungling Defense Hurts Health Care
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-03-27T22:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/broccoli-bungling-defense-puts-health-care-at-risk-noah-feldman.html
What’s the difference between
broccoli and health insurance?  The fate of President Barack Obama’s health-care plan rests
on this question, which Supreme Court Justice  Antonin Scalia 
pressed on Solicitor General Don Verrilli. There is a good
answer. Unfortunately, in  oral arguments  before the court
Tuesday, Verrilli faltered in giving it.  The argument goes like this: If the government can require
individuals to buy health insurance because there is a market
for health care, what is to stop the government from requiring
people to purchase broccoli on the ground that there is also a
market in food?  Verrilli insisted that health care is different because the
need for it is unpredictable and involuntary. Scalia was openly
scornful, suggesting that this was a distinction without a
difference.  Verrilli’s failure to offer a sharp distinction could be
disastrous for the government’s case. Scalia’s vote was probably
lost already. But Justice  Anthony Kennedy  was listening
intently, and a similar question was bothering him.  Traditionally, Kennedy pointed out, the common law does not
penalize inaction. But here, he said, the government was
asserting the ability “to tell the individual citizen” that he
“must act, and that is different from what we have in previous
cases and that changes the relationship of the federal
government to the individual in the very fundamental way.”  Liberty and Dignity  Kennedy was expressing the worry that penalizing someone
for failing to do something infringes on liberty in a different
way from putting conditions on the things a citizen does.
Individual liberty, along with dignity, is one of Kennedy’s
constitutional touchstones. If he believes that the health-care
law is a new kind of infringement on individual liberty, Kennedy
will not uphold it.  In fact, Kennedy asked Verrilli, “When you are changing the
relation of the individual to the government … do you not have a
heavy burden of justification to show authorization under the
Constitution?” This query was especially chilling for proponents
of the law. Kennedy was rehearsing a route he could use to
strike it down. He might say that a new kind of infringement on
liberty must be justified by a compelling government reason --
one that Verrilli clearly did not provide.  What, Kennedy wanted to know, is the limiting principle on
the government’s ability to regulate? There is a good, sharp
answer to this wholly reasonable question. And although Verrilli
did not quite manage to make it, he may be able to do so on
Wednesday, when the court discusses whether the mandatory
coverage provision can be severed from the rest of the law if,
indeed, the court wants to strike the mandate down.  The answer is that health care insurance is different
because if the healthy people fail to get themselves coverage,
it becomes extremely difficult -- under some conditions,
impossible -- for the  insurance market to operate . That is, as
the healthiest people leave the pool, the market for health
insurance starts to unravel, as people who would buy it at a
price where the insurance companies would be willing to provide
it will be unable to do so.  In other words, when it comes to the strange and unusual
case of health insurance, inaction causes the whole market to
break down. By not buying health insurance, the healthiest
person is depriving everyone of a public good. By sitting on
their hands -- and acting rationally -- people who do not
purchase insurance are unintentionally causing the market to
fail.  The limiting principle that Kennedy was seeking is
therefore readily at hand. The government can penalize inaction
only when that inaction deprives everyone else of a public good.
That happens very rarely in the real world. There must be an
asymmetry of information about the relevant facts governing
insurance -- like the difference between my knowledge of how
healthy I am and the insurance company’s ability to suss it out.
And the market must be one in which that information asymmetry
leads to adverse selection.  Unique Industry  Kennedy was therefore correct when he said, in his last
comment, “In the insurance and health-care world … the young
person who is uninsured is uniquely proximately very close to
affecting the rates of insurance and the costs of providing
medical care in a way that is not true in other industries.”  Broccoli, by contrast, presents no problems of adverse
selection. Scalia’s intuition is that the federal government may
not go around ordering people to buy things that they do not
wish to buy. That intuition is plausible. The Constitution gives
Congress the power to regulate interstate commerce, which has
been held to extend to essentially all economic activity.
Inaction is ordinarily not economic activity -- not unless
perfectly reasonable inaction throws an entire market into
dysfunction.  During the argument, Justice  Samuel Alito  asked whether the
government could require people to buy burial insurance. Justice
 Stephen Breyer  boldly suggested that the answer was yes: after
all, he seemed to think, everyone dies, and burial is an
economic activity. If the government provided its own burial
insurance, and wanted to “rationalize” the market, it could
mandate burial insurance.  Breyer may be right to dismiss the difference between
action and inaction when inaction imposes costs on others. But
as a limiting principle, this would be a pretty thin reed. After
all, all kinds of inaction impose spillover costs on third
parties. If I and others boycott broccoli, our inaction is
intended to affect demand, and so to change the practices of,
for example, the broccoli growers. To accept Breyer’s position
is to allow the slippage in individual liberty that Kennedy
seems to fear.  But inaction is different in the health insurance context.
If I choose not to buy broccoli, others can still buy it at a
market price. If I choose not to buy health insurance, universal
coverage becomes impossible. That is a fundamental difference.
The solicitor general should say so. If he does, Justice Kennedy
should listen.  (Noah Feldman, a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on  China ’s  clean-coal
technology , Ireland’s  economic woes  and  Syria ’s  muddled
opposition . William Pesek on  Japan’s workplace discrimination .
 Margaret Carlson  on  Trayvon Martin and Al Sharpton . Meghan
O’Sullivan on  Iraq’s economic salvation . Clive Crook on the
writings of a  potential World Bank president.   Peter Orszag  and
 Peter Diamond  on  Mitt Romney’s Social Security plan . And  Simon
Johnson  and  James Kwak  on how the U.S. became  banker to the
world .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Noah Feldman  in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 