-- BTG IPO Leads Statist Brazil Loosening Shackles for Equities
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-03-27T19:59:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/btg-pactual-leads-statist-brazil-loosening-shackles-for-equities.html
Back to the game.  That’s where billionaire  Andre Esteves  is leading  Brazil 
with a share sale that may open the market for initial public
offerings and ease the economy’s reliance on government loans.  It’s also one of the meanings Esteves, 43, gives for the
acronym in his soon-to-be-public company, Banco BTG Pactual SA,
the Sao Paulo-based investment firm that’s doubled its capital
and tripled assets under management since he bought the business
from UBS AG in 2009.  BTG’s IPO would be the first in Brazil since July,
following a year in which  Europe ’s debt crisis drained
investments from emerging-market economies. A successful pricing
may show the way for a pipeline of 40 proposed initial offerings
that the Sao Paulo stock exchange estimates at $28 billion, and
could offer a template for reducing the government’s role as a
top provider of loans to private businesses.  “Esteves doesn’t want to be just an aggressive and young
investment banker anymore,” said Ricardo Rocha, a finance
professor at the Insper business school in  Sao Paulo . “He wants
to be a lead actor in the Brazilian economy. He wants to expand
in Brazil and  Latin America  in a world in which there is a lack
of capital for the big international banks.”  The state has a hand in much of the lending that takes
place in Brazil, the world’s second-largest developing economy
after China. Credit extended by banks majority-owned by the
government grew to 44 percent of the market in January, from 42
percent a year earlier and 34 percent in August 2008, according
to central bank data.  Banco Panamericano  Those figures don’t reflect the government’s full reach,
because they exclude lenders such as Banco Votorantim SA and
Banco Panamericano SA, in which the state owns 49.99 percent of
the voting shares.  Brazil also owns some of the country’s biggest firms,
including Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the largest company by market
value on the Sao Paulo stock exchange, and  Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras SA (ELET6) , Latin America’s biggest utility.  The government-controlled  development bank , known as BNDES,
helps finance many of the nation’s largest takeovers. JBS SA,
the world’s No. 1 beef producer, sold 3.48 billion reais ($1.9
billion) in convertible bonds to BNDES in 2009 to fund the
acquisition of Pilgrim’s Pride Corp. and Bertin SA. From 2000 to
2010, BNDES loaned 11 billion reais to Oi SA and Telemar
Participacoes SA and injected an additional 2.6 billion in
capital for a restructuring in 2008.  Luciano Coutinho , president
of BNDES, said at the time that the state’s help was justified
to create a company with the scale to compete globally.  A Ministry of Finance official declined to comment on the
government’s role in the economy, as did a BNDES official.  Rothschild Family  BTG is owned by Esteves, his executive partners and a group
of investors that includes the Rothschild family and  Italy ’s
Agnelli family, which controls automaker Fiat SpA.  The firm will “open the door for other companies to access
the  capital markets ,” said Banco Pactual SA founder Luiz Cezar Fernandes, who is now CEO of Laep Investments Ltd. He said
Brazil “needs a strong equity market” to keep growing.  Fernandes, 66, created Pactual in 1983. He says it was
meant to be a copy of New York-based  Goldman (GS)  Sachs Group Inc.
“with a tropical flavor.” In fact, Esteves sometimes jokes
that BTG now stands for “Better than Goldman.”  Officially, the acronym stands for Banking and Trading
Group.  ‘Sadness’ Over  Fernandes hired Esteves in 1989 as a systems analyst and
became his mentor in the investment-banking business, only to be
outmaneuvered by his protégé in 1998. That’s when Esteves
demanded Fernandes sell him his stake in the bank in exchange
for loans Fernandes needed for other business interests.
Fernandes, who afterward said Esteves would “sell his own
mother to obtain power,” said earlier this month in an
interview that the “sadness” of those days is over, and he’s
happy BTG is successful enough to go public.  Goldman Sachs tried to buy Esteves’s company before he sold
it to Zurich-based UBS AG in 2006 for $3.5 billion, making
himself a billionaire in the process. As a UBS executive, he
tried to buy the entire Swiss bank in 2007, without success. He
repurchased Pactual in 2009 for $2.5 billion.  The bank has been a “growth engine” ever since, said
Ceres Lisboa, a banking analyst at Moody’s Corp. Total capital
has grown to $4.75 billion from $2 billion during the period,
and assets under management jumped to almost $100 billion from
$30 billion, according to the company.  Still, Lisboa said most revenue comes from proprietary
trading, which is subject to wide swings from quarter to
quarter. Gross revenue from that business jumped to 4.6 billion
reais in 2011, 70 percent more than in 2010, she said.  ‘Volatile’ Revenue  “They have a very active and aggressive proprietary
trading area, but it is a volatile source of revenue and
increases the bank’s risk,” Lisboa said.  Officials at BTG declined to comment, citing the “quiet
period” before the planned IPO.  Service fees from asset management and  wealth management , a
more stable revenue source, rose to 511.5 million reais in 2011
from 343.4 million reais in 2010. Total service fees, which
include broker dealer and investment-banking revenue, climbed to
1.087 billion reais in 2011 from 798.8 million reais a year
earlier.  BTG’s earnings were 1.9 billion reais last year, a 19
percent increase from 2010. Return on average equity fell to
24.4 percent from 27.5 percent, still the highest among the top
Brazilian banks and, in keeping with the BTG acronym, better
than Goldman, which posted a 3.7 percent return on equity for
2011.  M&A Advice  BTG was the No. 1 adviser on mergers and acquisitions in
Brazil for 2011 and the second-biggest equity underwriter, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The company was the second-largest
in Brazil for fixed-income distribution, up from sixth in 2009,
according to Anbima, the local investment-bank and capital-
markets association. BTG is sixth in asset management, behind
the largest retail banks.  In June, BTG announced its first private-equity fund, with
$1.6 billion in total. Partners and employees invested $200
million, while $500 million came from Banco BTG capital, said
Carlos Fonseca, head of BTG’s merchant-banking unit. About 15
percent of the bank’s capital is invested in private equity.
Esteves said in February he plans to create an investment fund
of at least 3 billion reais to tap into infrastructure
development in Brazil.  Sister Companies  The IPO will give investors stakes in both Banco BTG and
BTG Participations Ltd., the company that owns BTG’s private-
equity business. The two sister companies have spent more than
$2.8 billion since the beginning of 2009 on about 17
acquisitions, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BTG’s investments include Brasbunker Participacoes SA, an
off-shore transportation and oil-and-gas-services company, and
 Brazil Pharma SA (BPHA3) , the nation’s biggest pharmacy chain by number
of stores.  BTG also invests in real estate, buying control of WTorre
Properties SA in 2001 and merging it with BR Properties SA in
September. Esteves’s bank owns a 77.4 percent stake in Estapar,
Brazil’s largest parking-lot administrator, and a stake in ERSA-
Energia Renovaveis SA, one of the owners of CPFL Energias
Renovaveis SA, the biggest producer of renewable energy in
Brazil.  Panamericano Deal  BTG helped the government in February 2011 when it agreed
to pay 450 million reais for 50.01 percent of the voting shares
of Panamericano, the Sao Paulo-based bank bailed out in 2010
after suspected accounting fraud. Panamericano gave Esteves a
partnership with Caixa Economica Federal, the government-owned
bank that’s Brazil’s biggest mortgage lender.  BTG is also a government partner on Sete Brasil
Participacoes SA, an oil-rig provider owned by  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , banks and pension funds.  In December, Panamericano and BTG announced the purchase of
Brazilian Finance & Real Estate SA, the country’s top issuer of
real estate-backed securities, for about 1.2 billion reais.  BTG said last month it agreed to buy Chilean brokerage
Celfin Capital SA for $245 million in cash and 2.4 percent of
BTG equity. The equity portion totaled about $355 million,
according to a person familiar with the matter, meaning BTG was
worth about $15 billion.  Esteves’s Stake  Esteves and his partners won’t sell shares in the IPO, and
some plan to purchase new ones to avoid diluting their stakes,
according to a person familiar with the deal who asked not to be
named because the matter is private.  Other stakeholders in the company, like J.C. Flowers & Co.,
Government of Singapore Investment Corp.,  China  Investment Corp.
and the Abu Dhabi Investment Council, may sell their stakes.  Esteves hasn’t yet said how many shares will be sold in the
IPO or when the bank will offer them. Proceeds will be used to
“continue expanding its businesses” and to improve its
“funding structure,” the company said in a filing earlier this
month. Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Banco Bradesco SA
will coordinate the equity offering.  “BTG isn’t simply collecting fees or trading derivatives;
it’s also putting capital to work in productive businesses,”
Fernandes, the company’s founder, said. “What Esteves is trying
to sell in the IPO is not only a bank but also Brazil.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  