-- Buyers Plan to View Petroplus Coryton Refinery in Next Weeks
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2012-03-27T16:22:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/buyers-to-visit-u-k-coryton-refinery-in-coming-weeks-mep-says.html
Potential buyers for Petroplus
Holdings AG’s  Coryton (BPCOCRUD)  oil refinery in the U.K. will visit the
site in the coming weeks, according to a local member of the
European Parliament.  “There are a number of interested parties,” Richard Howitt, an MEP for the east of  England , said today by phone.
“We need to advance the bids.”  Administrators have been working for weeks to secure the
future of Petroplus’s five European refineries after the company
filed for insolvency in January. Crude supply has been secured
for Coryton and the Petit-Couronne plant in  France  under so-
called tolling arrangements. Gunvor Group Ltd., an energy
trader, agreed to buy the  Antwerp (BEANCRUD)  plant in Belgium this month.  “As with Antwerp, it may be a trader that’s most
interested in buying Coryton for its location and storage and
distribution facilities,”  Roy Jordan , a consultant at Facts
Global Energy Inc., said today by phone from  London .  The sluggish European economy has reduced demand for fuels,
putting pressure on refining margins and leading to the closure
of plants owned by Total SA and ConocoPhillips. Lenders to
Petroplus froze about $1 billion in loans in December.  “More investment is going to be needed as the economics of
the plant don’t look very attractive,” Jordan said.  April Deadline  Coryton is the only Petroplus refinery still operating,
supplied under a tolling agreement reached last month with
Morgan Stanley, KKR & Co. and AtlasInvest. Under the tolling
arrangement, the investor supplies the crude, pays a fee to have
it processed and take ownership of the products.  Indicative investor offers for Coryton are to be submitted
by April 2, according to Howitt. The 220,000 barrel-a-day
facility was scheduled to have a maintenance shutdown in late
2012, the company said in November. “Preparations for the
turnaround are continuing,” Howitt said.  Final bids for Petroplus’s  Cressier (PECRCRUD)  refinery in  Switzerland 
must be submitted by the end of March, Brigitte Umbach-Spahn,
the administrator at Wenger Plattner, a  law firm  in Zurich, said
last week in an e-mail.  Petroplus’s  Ingolstadt (EXINCRUD)  site in  Germany  stopped processing
last month. Investors have expressed interest in buying the
refinery, according to a Feb. 8 statement by Petroplus.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc agreed in February to supply crude to
the 161,800 barrel-a-day  Petit-Couronne (SHPECRUD)  plant in France for six
months. That plant may start operations by the end of May,
according to a union official.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  