-- California Said to Probe Effect of EMI Music’s Sale
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   J o n   E r l i c h m a n
-- 2012-03-28T08:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/california-said-to-probe-effect-of-emi-music-s-sale.html
California Attorney General  Kamala Harris  is probing the planned purchase of EMI Group by  Vivendi
SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music  and an investor group led by Sony/ATV Music
Publishing, two people familiar with the inquiry said.  Harris’s office has contacted customers and competitors of
EMI, Universal Music and Sony/ATV about the effect the deal may
have on pricing, said the people, who weren’t authorized to
speak publicly about the probe. The state began seeking
information in late February to determine whether the $4.1
billion transaction would violate antitrust rules, one of the
people said.  The investigation adds scrutiny to a sale that’s already
under review by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and the
European Union. Universal Music, the world’s biggest record
company, is buying EMI’s recorded music unit for $1.9 billion.
Sony/ATV, a joint-venture of Tokyo-based  Sony Corp. (6758)  and the
estate of Michael Jackson, is purchasing EMI publishing for $2.2
billion and would become the world’s biggest music publisher.  Lynda Gledhill, a spokeswoman for Harris, said yesterday
the office doesn’t discuss whether specific cases are being
investigated, as a matter of policy.  Jimmy Asci, a spokesman for Sony/ATV in  New York , declined
to comment, as did  Peter Lofrumento , a spokesman for Universal
Music.  Beatles, Beyonce  Warner Music Group, owned by billionaire Len Blavatnik’s
Access Industries Holdings Inc., opposes the EMI sale, Warner
board member Edgar Bronfman Jr. said earlier this year.  Universal Music would gain rights to albums from EMI
performers including the Beatles, and Sony/ATV would add
copyrights to songs and songwriters at EMI, including Beyonce
and Jay-Z.  The Sony/ATV-led group offered compromises to European
regulators examining the acquisition, according to a filing
yesterday on the European Commission’s website that didn’t
provide specific details. The commission extended its deadline
to rule on the deal until April 19. The group also extended its
review of Universal Music’s EMI purchase.  Investigators and competitors have expressed concern that
the combined companies will have too much control over prices
and access to songs. Universal Music has 27 percent share of the
recorded  music industry , and EMI accounts for 12 percent,
according to data from the IFPI music industry association cited
by Sanford C. Bernstein analysts.  Fundraising  In publishing, Sony makes up 13 percent of the market and
EMI 20 percent. Universal, which isn’t buying publishing assets
from EMI, is the dominant company with 23 percent.  Universal Music plans to sell three music-publishing
catalogs to raise about $200 million to help finance its EMI
acquisition, a person said this week. Universal Music hired Bank
of America Merrill Lynch to sell classical, Christian and German
schlager catalogs, said the person, who wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly.  Universal’s parent, Vivendi, has said it will raise 500
million euros ($668 million) to finance the deal. Chief
Financial Officer Philippe Capron said this month that the
company plans to complete the divestments by the second half.  Vivendi rose 0.1 percent to 13.97 euros at 10:03 a.m. in
Paris  trading . The company, based in the French capital, has
dropped 17 percent this year. Sony added 1.8 percent in  Tokyo .  EMI, the 114-year-old music company that owns Abbey Road
Studios in  London , was seized by  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in February 2011
after falling out of compliance with debt covenants, and
subsequently sold.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Erlichman in New York at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  