-- California-Blend Gasoline Drops on High Fuel Supply, Few Buyers
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-03-27T23:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/california-blend-gasoline-drops-on-high-fuel-supply-few-buyers.html
California-blend gasoline dropped
for a second day after  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  restored production at the
Golden Eagle refinery and a report showed supplies on the U.S.
West Coast jumped by the most in 11 weeks.  Tesoro, based in  San Antonio , said March 22 that the
170,000-barrel-a-day  Golden Eagle (TEMTCRUD)  refinery in Martinez,
 California , was at planned rates following a maintenance
turnaround.  West Coast gasoline stocks  rose 3.6 percent to 31.5
million barrels in the week ended March 23 from a week earlier,
the  American Petroleum Institute  said today.  California-blend, or Carbob, gasoline in  Los Angeles (MOGLDB85)  fell
3.5 cents to a discount of 3 cents a gallon against gasoline
futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The same fuel in  San Francisco (MOGSD85P)  also
dropped 3.5 cents to a 5 cent discount to futures.  BP Plc (BP/) , based in  London , is scheduled to flare gases at the
266,000-barrel-a-day  Carson (BPCRCRUD)  refinery in  Southern California 
through April 2, according to a notice the company filed with
air regulators. Tesoro, based in San Antonio, also planned to
flare gases at the 97,000-barrel-a-day  Wilmington (SHWCCRUD)  refinery in
Southern California through today, a separate filing shows.  “We do not anticipate any impact upon our ability to meet
regional contractual product supply commitments,” Tina Barbee,
a Tesoro spokeswoman in San Antonio, said in an e-mail.  California-blend diesel, or CARB diesel, in  Los Angeles (DIEILCAD) 
dropped for the first time in three days, falling by 0.87 cent
to a 13.13 cent-a-gallon premium against Nymex heating oil
futures. The same fuel in  San Francisco (DIEISCAD)  was unchanged at a 12.5
cent premium versus futures.  BP’s Carson refinery began a maintenance turnaround about a
week ago, a person familiar with the plant’s operations said
March 19. Daren Beaudo, a BP spokesman in Houston, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail requesting comment on scheduled
flaring at the plant.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland (MOGHD87P) ,  Oregon ,
slipped 0.75 cent to a 6.25 cent premium to gasoline futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  