-- Camera Plans $11 Million Brazilian Biodiesel Chemical Plant
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-03-27T15:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/camera-dupont-plan-11-million-brazil-biodiesel-chemical-plant.html
     March 27 (Bloomberg) --Camera Agroalimentos SA, a Brazilian
agricultural company, is planning a 20 million-real ($11
million) factory to make a catalyst needed to produce biodiesel
as demand for the renewable fuel increases.  The plant will open by next year and will initially produce
15,000 metric tons of sodium methylate a year, Joao Artur
Manjabosco, manager of biodiesel and co-products at  Santa Rosa ,
Brazil-based Camera, said today in a telephone interview. The
company may eventually double the output.  Camera expects  Brazil  to double the amount of biodiesel it
requires oil companies to mix with regular diesel fuel to 10
percent by 2020 to diversify its energy supply and cut fossil
fuel imports, Manjabosco said.  “The government has been discussing a raised blend for
some time,” he said. “Even without a higher blend, demand for
biodiesel is increasing.”  Biodiesel consumption will increase by about 8 percent to
2.8 billion liters (739 million gallons) this year because the
country’s fleet of heavy vehicles that run on diesel is
increasing, he said.  Camera, which owns two biodiesel plants in the state of  Rio
Grande  do Sul, will use a third of the catalyst plant’s output
internally and will sell the remainder to nearby producers, he
said. The company will buy sodium, a key raw material for sodium
methylate, from  DuPont Co. (DD)   Brazil’s southern states of Santa Catarina, Parana and Rio
Grande do Sul produced about a third of the nation’s biodiesel
last year, he said.  Camera is Brazil’s eighth-biggest producer of biodiesel and
may sell shares in a public offering in 2014, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  