-- Canadian Dollar Declines Versus Most Major Peers as Stocks Drop
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-03-27T21:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/canadian-dollar-declines-versus-u-s-peer-as-oil-stocks-waver.html
Canada ’s dollar weakened against
all but two of its 16 most-traded peers as investors exited
positions in higher-risk assets and Ontario, the nation’s
largest province, predicted a reduced deficit next fiscal year.  The currency rose to the strongest level in almost a week
before reversing gains as equities and commodities fluctuated.
The currency extended a loss against the greenback after a
report showed confidence among American consumers declined in
March, spurring demand for a refuge.  “It’s been muted,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of
foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada  in Toronto, said in
an e-mail, referring to the Canadian dollar’s reaction to the
Ontario budget. “It’s going to be a reflection of what the
 ratings agencies  have to say.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, fell against all of its major
peers except the currencies of Norway and  Australia . It weakened
0.4 percent to 99.48 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto,
after rising to 99.01, the strongest level since March 21. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0048.  Government bonds  rose, pushing the yield on benchmark 10-
year security down seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point,
to 2.12 percent. Canadian 10-year debt ended yesterday yielding
six basis points lower than equivalent-maturity U.S. bonds, from
two basis points higher at the end of February.  Scrap Tax Cuts  Ontario plans to freeze public-sector wages and scrap
corporate tax cuts to balance its budget by 2017-18 as it tries
to close Canada’s biggest provincial shortfall.  The province’s deficit will fall to C$15.2 billion ($15.2
billion) in the fiscal year that begins April 1, down from
C$15.3 billion in the current year, according to the budget
released in Toronto today. Absent the measures, the gap would
have ballooned to a record C$25 billion within three years.  The loonie has traded in a range of about 2 cents this
month, appreciating to 98.42 cents on March 1 on speculation
that the euro-zone debt crisis would fade, before dropping to
C$1.0034 last week on concern that a rally in higher-risk assets
had moved too far. The currency has averaged about C$1.30 since
1992, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The market is basically treading water,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank.
“The Canadian dollar has tested the weakest part of the range
today as the wait for the Ontario budget has kept things on the
quiet side.” The pair should trade between 98.50 and 99.50
cents per U.S. dollar, according to Osborne.  Market ‘Funk’  Canada’s currency rose yesterday along with global equities
after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
accommodative monetary policy is still needed to reduce U.S.
unemployment, boosting speculation of further monetary stimulus.  “Equity markets rallied yesterday, and we did see the
Canadian dollar a little stronger, but it really hasn’t followed
through much -- which has been a theme,” Blake Jespersen,
director of foreign exchange at  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  in Toronto,
said in a telephone interview. “We need some kind of catalyst
to break this market out of its funk.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent and crude
oil, Canada’s biggest export, rose 0.3 percent to $107.33 per
barrel in New York after earlier strengthening 0.7 percent.  The loonie’s 1.4 percent gain over the past month is the
second-best performance among 10 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The pound leads
with an advance of 1.8 percent, and the greenback is third-best
at 1.4 percent higher.  Against the U.S. dollar, the loonie is headed for a 2.8
percent gain this quarter. It rose 2.8 percent in the fourth
quarter last year, after dropping 8.3 percent in the third.  “I don’t think there’s much reason for the Canadian dollar
to be much stronger than where it is now,” said BMO’s
Jespersen. “The Canadian dollar is comfortable trading right
around parity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Austen Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  