-- Canada Pressured Over Bomb-Grade Uranium for Medical Use
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-03-27T09:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/canada-pressured-over-bomb-grade-uranium-for-medical-use.html
A U.S. agreement to supply European
countries with material used to create cancer-treating isotopes
may raise pressure on  Canada  to phase out the use of bomb-grade
uranium for medical purposes.  Belgium ,  France  and the Netherlands promised to stop making
medical isotopes from reactors that irradiate bomb-grade uranium
by 2015 in exchange for a U.S. pledge to supply nuclear material
until then, the countries announced late yesterday at a nuclear-
security summit in Seoul. The reactors produce Molybdenum-99, or
Moly-99, that hospitals use to diagnose and treat cancer and
heart disease.  “This is a very important stride forward and really
reduces the chances of this material falling into the wrong
hands,” U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu said at a press
briefing. “We feel it is very important for all countries to
recognize this as an important step forward.”  Some 100,000 patients are treated daily worldwide with
Moly-99 isotopes. Reactors use highly enriched uranium, also the
key ingredient in atomic bombs, to produce isotopes. World
leaders attending the summit want nations and companies to
invest in new facilities that can make medical isotopes with
low-enriched uranium that can’t be used for weapons.  Canada is one of the world’s biggest suppliers of medical
isotopes. A Canadian company,  Nordion Inc. (NDN) , sells isotopes
produced from highly enriched uranium, or HEU, irradiated at a
research reactor operated by Atomic Energy of Canada Ltd., a
state-owned company based near Ottawa. AECL triggered a global
shortage of isotopes in 2009, when it was forced to shut down
the reactor due to a leak.  Reactor Revamp  Canada’s government recently put out a tender seeking
advice on how to restructure the AECL division that operates the
55-year-old reactor, which is licensed to operate until 2016.  Nordion signed an agreement in 2010 with a unit of Rosatom
Corp., a company controlled by the Russian government, to
acquire atomic material needed to make the isotopes until 2020.  Companies are raising nuclear-security concern by not
pledging to convert to low-enriched production, said Miles
Pomper, a senior researcher at the Washington-based Center for
Non-Proliferation Studies.  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said today his
country is committed to eliminating the use of bomb-grade
uranium in isotope production “over time.”  Seeking Alternatives  “We will not do it instantly, but we are making
investments specifically on alternatives to that kind of isotope
production in Canada,” he told reporters in Seoul. “We’ll
continue to do so, and we’ll fulfill our commitments.”  Nordion, which exports isotopes worldwide, is closely
following the Nuclear Security Summit in Seoul, said Tamra Benjamin, vice president for public and government relations.  “We are actively monitoring and engaged on various
initiatives seeking to develop non-HEU-based technologies for
isotope production,” Benjamin wrote today in an e-mailed
response to questions. “At present, however, Nordion believes
that the premature elimination of access to HEU-based isotopes
could have a detrimental effect on tens of thousands of patients
around the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in  Seoul  at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  