-- Canceled Permits May Cost India as Telenor, Sistema Invoke Pacts
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2012-03-27T18:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/canceled-permits-may-cost-india-as-telenor-sistema-invoke-pacts.html
India  may have to pay damages after
its Supreme Court canceled mobile-phone licenses of Norway’s
 Telenor ASA (TEL)  and  Russia ’s  AFK Sistema (AFKS) , prompting the companies to
invoke trade treaties and threaten legal action.  Telenor, which routed its investment through  Singapore , has
cited the city state’s economic cooperation treaty with India to
protect its interests, spokesman Glenn Mandelid said yesterday.
Sistema, owned by Russian billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov, said
Feb. 28 it’s using bilateral protections with India to salvage
its operations.  Failure of the Indian government to settle the matter may
cost it money and undermine the country’s image as a destination
for foreign companies, said Biswajit Dhar, director general of
New Delhi-based Research and Information Systems for Developing
Countries. Telenor and Sistema risk losing about $5.8 billion of
combined investment after the court on Feb. 2 ruled the award of
some mobile-phone licenses in 2008 was “flawed” and rescinded
those tainted by graft allegations.  “When the  Supreme Court  fails to account for bilateral
treaties when making rulings, it makes the country look very
bad,” Dhar said. “These agreements are becoming a problem and
an arbitrator will likely ask India to cough up cash for
damages.”  Veerappa Moily, India’s minister of corporate affairs, told
reporters in New Delhi yesterday that the Indian government
hadn’t received a notice from Telenor seeking compensation.  ‘Invoke Provisions’  “We have informed the government of India of our intent to
invoke the provisions” of the Comprehensive Economic
Cooperation Agreement between India and Singapore, Telenor’s
Mandelid said in an e-mailed statement. “While we haven’t
stated any amount, we do intend to seek compensation for all
investment, guarantees and damages.”  Vsevolod Sementsov, a Moscow-based spokesman for Sistema,
declined to comment. Sistema has spent about $3.1 billion on its
Indian mobile-phone business. Telenor has invested more than 140
billion rupees ($2.7 billion) in its joint venture with India’s
 Unitech Ltd. (UT)   The Supreme Court canceled 122 licenses after the country’s
auditor said a 2008 auction of second-generation spectrum lacked
transparency and was sold to ineligible bidders at
“unbelievably low” prices. The sale cost the exchequer about
$30 billion in revenue, the auditor’s 2010 report said.  Former Telecommunications Minister  Andimuthu Raja  is in
jail in New Delhi facing trial, while former officials in his
ministry, a lawmaker and Sanjay Chandra, managing director of
Unitech, have been released on bail. All deny wrongdoing.  Telenor formed a venture with Unitech after it won airwaves
in the auction. Sistema’s local partner is Shyam Group.  The Norwegian phone company is suing Unitech for
indemnities, accusing it of fraud. The case is currently before
India’s Company Law Board. Sistema has asked India to settle the
dispute amicably within six months or face legal action.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  