-- Chavez Said to Lead Capriles by 13 Points in Venezuelan Poll
-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-03-27T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/chavez-said-to-lead-capriles-by-13-points-in-venezuelan-poll.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  is
leading his opponent Henrique Capriles Radonski by 13 percentage
points in a poll measuring support for the socialist leader’s
re-election bid nearly six months before the vote, according to
two people who have seen the unpublished poll by Datanalisis.  The result of the survey taken this month was presented by
Datanalisis President Luis Vicente Leon at an event yesterday
for business executives in Caracas, according to the two people,
one of whom attended the event and the other, a member of
Capriles’ party, who saw a copy of the poll.  Chavez, who is looking to extend his 13-year rule in the
October vote until 2019, had 44 percent support among those
surveyed compared with 31 percent for Capriles, said both
people. Another 25 percent were undecided, they said, declining
to give their names because the results have not been made
public. The date the survey was taken, its sample size and the
margin of error was unknown, they added.  Leon declined to comment on the poll when contacted by
Bloomberg News, saying only that he’d present its results at a
March 29 event. Venezuelan polls aren’t normally published in
public forums.  Toughest Election  Chavez is facing his toughest election to date as his
battle against an undisclosed type of cancer limits his ability
to campaign for votes. The 57-year-old former paratrooper has
shuttled between Caracas and  Havana , where he currently is
undergoing radiation therapy, while Capriles has begun touring
the country in what he’s calling a “door-to-door” campaign to
attract disenfranchised government supporters.  Capriles, the governor of Miranda state that encompasses
part of the capital, won a primary election last month in a
landslide over four other opposition candidates.  Diosdado Cabello, a Chavez ally who is the president of the
National Assembly and vice president of the United Socialist
Party said yesterday that the convalescing leader has “at
least” a 20 point lead over Capriles.  Statistical Tie  A separate poll this month by Consultores 21 showed the two
candidates locked in a statistical tie. Chavez was favored by 46
percent of those surveyed compared with 45 percent for Capriles,
Saul Cabrera, vice president of the Caracas-based pollster, said
in a March 22 interview. Another 9 percent of the 2,000 people
polled between March 3 and 13 were undecided, Cabrera said.  Consultores 21 said that of the people surveyed who said
they were most likely to vote, the advantage for Chavez rises to
a 6 percentage point difference of 51 percent to 45 percent with
5 percent undecided.  ‘Oligarch’s Candidate’  “It’s impossible for there to be a statistical tie between
Chavez and the oligarch’s candidate,” Cabello told a rally of
government supporters. “They must have done the poll in a
restaurant in Las Mercedes,” he said, in reference to a wealthy
neighborhood in Caracas.  Venezuelan bonds have rallied this year, returning 20
percent year-to-date as investors see an increased probability
of a political change that may reverse Chavez’s socialist
policies that have fueled inflation and dried up foreign
investment. That’s the second best return in  emerging markets 
after  Ivory Coast , according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global index.  The Information Ministry sent a poll by e-mail on March 18
allegedly done by polling company IVAD that showed Chavez with
56.5 percent support compared to 26.6 percent for Capriles and
16.9 percent undecided.  Felix Seijas, director of IVAD, declined to comment on the
ministry e-mail when contacted.  “In my opinion polls are for internal use in political
parties and not something that I’m going to talk about,”
Capriles said yesterday in a press conference in Caracas. “The
other candidate keeps talking about his huge lead but it comes
off sounding like desperation to me.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 