-- Cheddar-Bunny Maker Annie’s Surges in Trading After IPO
-- B y   A n j e l i c a   T a n ,   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-03-28T21:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/cheddar-bunny-maker-annie-s-inc-raises-95-million-in-ipo.html
Annie’s Inc. (BNNY) , the maker of organic
and natural foods such as bunny-shaped crackers, surged 89
percent in its trading debut after raising $95 million in an
initial public offering that priced the shares above the range.  The shares climbed to $35.92 at the close in New York.
Annie’s and its investors sold 5 million shares for $19 each in
the IPO, the company said in a statement. Annie’s earlier
offered them for $16 to $18 apiece.  The IPO price valued Annie’s at $316.3 million, or about
2.3 times sales in the 12 months through Dec. 31. That compared
with an average of 1.6 for a basket of competitors that Annie’s
lists in its filing, including  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  and  Kellogg Co. (K) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Annie’s, whose products
include macaroni-and-cheese and rabbit-shaped cheddar crackers,
also competes with private organic and natural-food companies
 Nature’s Path Foods Inc.  and  Amy’s Kitchen Inc.   While Annie’s may have priced the shares too low, it was
difficult to expect the price jumping as much as it did during
the first day of trading, said Ken Harris, chief executive
officer of Kantar Retail Americas Consulting. The gain positions
Annie’s for a secondary offering, Harris said.  “I don’t think you could have anticipated it,” Harris
said in a phone interview. “They have a real knack for making
healthy, good-tasting products. They will probably have a second
round fairly quickly.”  Mainstream Organic  CEO John Foraker said Annie’s is focusing on growing by
positioning its organic foods in the center of grocery stores,
alongside mainstream products. He declined to comment on the
possibility of a secondary stock offering.  “We see growth from getting into the main aisles of the
stores,” he said in a telephone interview. “We think natural
and organic is mainstream.”  Annie’s, based in Berkeley,  California , follows more than
30 companies to go public in the U.S. this year, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Yelp Inc. (YELP)  has almost doubled since its IPO
this month, while  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  had risen 44
percent through yesterday since going public in February.  Co-founded in 1989 by Annie Withey and Andrew Martin,
Annie’s plans to use some of the proceeds from the sale to repay
debt. Withey, whose rabbit Bernie inspired the company’s bunny
mascot, still writes the personal letters printed on the product
boxes and “remains the inspiration and corporate conscience”
for the company’s products, according to the  website .  Second Raise  Annie’s had already raised the  price range  on the IPO, led
by  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , once this
week, from a range of $14 to $16. The stock is listed on the New
York Stock Exchange under the symbol BNNY.  Revenue in the nine months ended Dec. 31 surged 21 percent
to $98.3 million from a year earlier, according to a regulatory
 filing . Under Foraker, Annie’s posted a profit of $6 million for
the year ended March 31, 2010, after three years of losses. For
the year ended March 31, 2011, net income more than tripled to
$20.2 million.  Private-equity firm Solera Capital LLC planned to reduce
its stake to about 63 percent from 91 percent, according to
earlier terms of the IPO prospectus. Annie’s planned to sell
950,000 shares in the offering, while existing shareholders
planned to sell 4.05 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anjelica Tan in  New York  at 
 atan224@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  