-- Chelsea, Real Win Away to Open Champions League Quarterfinals
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-03-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/chelsea-real-madrid-win-champions-league-quarterfinal-openers.html
Chelsea and Real Madrid scored
second-half goals to open their Champions League soccer
quarterfinals with away wins.  Salomon Kalou  scored in the 75th minute as Chelsea ended
Benfica’s 10-match unbeaten home run in Europe last night with a
1-0 win in Portugal. Two goals from Karim Benzema and one from
Kaka after the break gave Real Madrid a 3-0 win over APOEL
Nicosia in Cyprus.  “Nothing is over, there is still another 90 minutes to
play,” Chelsea interim manager Roberto  Di Matteo  said on UEFA’s
website. “It has been a while since they lost a home game and
that just magnifies our performance.”  Chelsea and Real Madrid host the return matches in the two-
game series on April 4. The other quarterfinals in Europe’s
elite club competition begin tonight as defending champion
Barcelona visits AC Milan and Marseille hosts Bayern Munich.  In Lisbon, Di Matteo started with senior players including
Didier Drogba,  Frank Lampard  and  Michael Essien  on the
substitutes bench and was rewarded when one of his replacements
scored the only goal.  “You want to play every game but you have to respect the
manager’s decision,” Kalou told Sky Sports. “He gave me the
chance and I have to show it on the pitch, so I’m happy to get
the goal.”  Benfica’s  Oscar Cardozo  volleyed wide after getting behind
 John Terry  in the 20th minute and Chelsea’s  Fernando Torres  shot
over from the edge of the area. Torres put another shot wide
after weaving into the area and Raul Meireles forced Benfica
goalkeeper Artur into a diving save just before halftime.  Second Half  David Luiz  blocked Cardozo’s shot on the goal line two
minutes after the break and Kalou headed over from close range.
Chelsea’s Juan Mata hit the post after running onto goalkeeper
 Petr Cech ’s long kick over the Benfica defense and going around
Artur. Cech then reacted quickly to block Jardel’s header from
six yards out.  Chelsea, which is seeking to reach the final four for the
sixth time in nine seasons, then took the lead as Torres fought
off Jardel on the right, carried the ball into the area and
passed toward the center for Kalou to slot past Artur.  Benfica almost scored in stoppage time as Nicolas Gaitan’s
cross was deflected just wide of the post by Ashley Cole.  “They are a strong side, with a lot of experience in
 Europe ,” Benfica coach Jorge Jesus said. “We dominated almost
the whole game, and created more chances to score, but we were
unfortunate.”  Late Goals  Three goals in the final 16 minutes gave record nine-time
European champion Real Madrid the win over APOEL Nicosia, the
first team from Cyprus to reach the last eight.  “It took us a long time to open the scoring but that had a
lot to do with our opponents,” Real coach  Jose Mourinho  said on
UEFA’s website. “Obviously they don’t have the outstanding
individual talent that other teams in the Champions League have
but from the point of view of organization and character, they
were fantastic.”  APOEL, which didn’t have a single shot on or off target
during the match, held Real scoreless until the 74th minute when
Benzema dived to head in a cross from Kaka, who came off the
bench in the second half.  Kaka doubled the lead eight minutes later when he converted
a pass from fellow Brazilian Marcelo and Benzema scored off a
cross from Mesut Ozil in the final minute to take his tally in
this season’s  Champions league  to seven goals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 