-- Chinese Art Buyers Renege on $22 Million, Force Clampdown
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a   a n d   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-03-28T12:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/chinese-art-buyers-renege-on-22-million-forcing-clampdown.html
A Chinese Imperial jade seal and
album of calligraphy are being re-offered for sale this week
after their Asian bidders failed to pay.  The sales in France are the latest sign of auction houses
clamping down on slow payments and nonpayments. Amid a growing
appetite by wealthy Chinese for art, wine and other
collectibles, sellers are demanding deposits by bidders on top
lots and, in some cases, suing the non-payers.  Sotheby’s sales that were canceled on 19 lots between 2008
and 2011 amounted to about $22 million, according to court
papers. The New York-based auctioneer started nine lawsuits in
 Hong Kong , naming successful bidders for the first time.  “We find it immensely effective,” said  Kevin Ching , chief
executive officer of Sotheby’s  Asia . “It’s easy to get a
default decision in Hong Kong but the cases often get settled
before.” Most of the claims have now been settled, said Diana Phillips, a spokeswoman.  Olivier Doutrebente  in Paris has put a valuation of as much
as 1.2 million euros ($1.6 million) on a 35-sheet album of 18th-
century Buddhist texts associated with the Emperor Qianlong, up
for sale on March 30. The album, owned by relatives of the
Sinologist Georges Soulie de Morant, was bid to 3.6 million
euros by a Chinese buyer a year ago.  Qianlong Seal  Chassaing-Marambat  in Toulouse,  France , auctioned a
Qianlong-period white stone seal, surmounted by carvings of
dragons, for 12.4 million euros to another Chinese bidder in
March, 2011. It will re-appear on March 31 with a revised
valuation of as much as 4 million euros. Only 2.2 million euros
of the original bill has been paid, said Paris Asian-art
specialist Pierre Ansas, who cataloged the piece.  “It will probably make less this time,” Ansas said.
“Once we’ve made the sale, we’ll be suing the non-payer for the
difference.”  Ansas required clients to deposit 200,000 euros to bid last
March to bid on the seal and a Qianlong-period Imperial scroll.
The scroll, offered on the same day at neighboring salesroom
 Labarbe , was bid to a record 22.1 million euros by another
Chinese client and was paid in full.  Second time around, would-be bidders on the seal must give
3 million euros, effectively a guaranteed price based on the low
estimate.  Deposit Demand  “We had to ask for a big deposit because we’re looking for
safe bidding,” Ansas said. “There are also a lot of smaller
cases of non-payment at around 100,000 euros at the moment.
That’s actually quite a lot of money for the people concerned.”  Sotheby’s (BID)  introduced a requirement last April that bidders
on premium lots (the definition varies) must pay a deposit of
HK$1 million ($128,791) to participate.  Public records don’t necessarily show all the twists and
turns of the auction business. The prices for some disputed
works in Sotheby’s lawsuits are listed on  Artnet.com , the widely
used database, as if the transactions have been completed.  “People accept it as fact and trade on this info,” said
Beverly Schreiber Jacoby, a New York-based art appraiser.  Sotheby’s filed a lawsuit seeking payment for “Self
Portrait in the Yellow Mountains,” an ink scroll by 20th-
century master  Zhang Daqian , which fetched HK$46.6 million and
was the top lot of its sale on Oct. 4, 2011. Another writ was
for a 1968 abstract painting by Zao Wou-Ki which fetched $8.9
million the day before. The price is listed as the auction
record for the artist on Artnet.  Disputed Lots  Sotheby’s in all disputed lots was seeking the hammer
price, buyer’s premium, interest and costs. Efforts to reach the
buyers for comment, through Sotheby’s, its lawyers and the  China 
offices of Bloomberg were unsuccessful.  “The court of last resort is, literally, the courtroom,”
said Victor Wiener, a New York-based art appraiser who has
served as a witness in cases involving art sold at auction.  “It’s an international problem,” London-based dealer
 Roger Keverne  said. “Some Chinese dealers are trying to sell
things before they pay for them. We don’t know the full extent
of it. The concern is that they can also be the under bidders.
They push prices up. It isn’t a genuine market.”  The most prominent case is a Qianlong vase that was
auctioned for a record 51.6 million pounds ($83 million) in
London in 2010. Auctioneer  Peter Bainbridge  hasn’t responded to
dealers’ assertions that the bill hasn’t been paid. He declined
to comment when Bloomberg contacted him via e-mail yesterday.  China First  Last year, China overtook the U.S. to become the world’s
largest art and antiques market, said a report published by the
Netherlands-based European Fine Art Foundation earlier this
month. Auctions in mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau and  Taiwan 
raised 9.8 billion euros in 2011, said the report.  Sotheby’s spring auctions in Hong Kong, starting March 31,
are estimated to bring more than $244 million and the company’s
annual sales in China rose to $960 million in 2011, a rise of 40
percent from 2010.  “It’s happening to everyone,” said John Axford, head of
Asian art at the U.K. auctioneers  Woolley & Wallis . “I don’t
know an auctioneer or a dealer who hasn’t been affected. Until
we can take legal action against non-payers in China, there
isn’t much we can do about this.”  (Katya Kazakina and Scott Reyburn write about the art
market for Muse, the arts and culture section of Bloomberg News.
Opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers on the story:
Scott Reyburn in  London  at  sreyburn@hotmail.com ;
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 