-- China Life Shares Rally as Investors Bet Worst is Behind
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-27T09:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/china-life-shares-rally-as-investors-bet-worst-is-behind.html
China Life Insurance Co. (2628)  climbed
the most in more than a month in  Hong Kong  trading as investors
expect a rebound in earnings after the nation’s biggest insurer
reported a 46 percent drop in profit last year.  The  stock  rose 2.7 percent to HK$20.75 at the close in Hong
Kong, the biggest gain since Feb. 17.  Net income  dropped to 18.3
billion yuan ($2.9 billion), the Beijing-based company said
yesterday. It will post a 31 billion yuan profit in 2012, based
on the average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  China Life suffered from last year’s 22 percent rout in the
benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , incurring 11.2 billion yuan
in realized losses and impairment on financial assets, while net
premiums rose 0.1 percent as it curbed short-term, single-
premium policies to focus on more profitable contracts. An
additional bond sale, announced yesterday after a 30 billion
yuan issue of subordinated debt in November, removes concerns
about any equity offering this year, according to Western
Securities Co.  “The potential for improvement is bigger for  China  Life as
its worst should be behind now,” said Qiu Peng, a Shanghai-
based investment manager at Western Securities. “People are
expecting both investment and premium growth to be getting
better and better quarter on quarter this year while they kept
worsening last year. And valuation is low historically.”  Stock Market Rebound  The Shanghai Composite has gained 8.2 percent this year as
slowing  economic growth  spurred speculation that the government
may take measures to bolster the economy and loosen curbs on the
 property market . China’s life-insurance premiums may expand 11
percent this year, compared to a global average of 3.1 percent,
after new accounting rules and tighter regulation on so-called
bancassurance led to a drop last year, according to Swiss Re Ltd.  Uncertainty in the global economy,  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis and slowing growth in China will damp domestic stocks
this year, Liu Jiade, China Life’s vice president, told
reporters today, adding that the company will reduce “risk
exposure” in stocks this year.  Still, value in Chinese stocks is “emerging” as valuation
levels are at new lows, he said. The Shanghai Composite is
trading at 12 times earnings, down from 17 times a year earlier.  China Life plans to issue as much as 38 billion yuan of
subordinated-term debt domestically and as much as 8 billion
yuan overseas, it said yesterday, after the solvency margin,
which gauges an insurer’s ability to settle claims, fell 42
percentage points last year to 170.12 percent.  Bond Sale Uncertainty  The 38 billion yuan bond sale will lift the solvency ratio
by 50 percentage points, Liu said, adding that a 200 percent
ratio is appropriate. There’s still “uncertainty” on the
overseas bond sale as it needs regulatory support, he said.  “The rest of the results did not provide too much comfort
with significant deteriorations in the solvency ratio and worse-
than-expected NBV growth,” Barclays Plc analysts led by Mark Kellock wrote in a report today, referring to a 2 percent
increase in new business value, a measure of profitability from
new policies sold.  The median estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
was for profit of 21.7 billion in 2011. Only four analysts
revised their estimates after the insurer said March 6 its
earnings would fall by 40 percent to 50 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Hong Kong benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  rose 1.8 percent.
 Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. (2318)  climbed 1.3 percent. China Life’s
Shanghai-traded shares rose 0.9 percent to 17.10 yuan.  --Zhang Dingmin. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  