-- China Shows U.S. How to Push for Carbon Capture
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-27T22:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/china-shows-u-s-how-to-push-for-carbon-capture.html
It’s a tantalizing promise that one
day “carbon capture” will remove  greenhouse gases  from the smoke
made by coal-fired power plants. After all, these plants, which
provide  45 percent  of electricity in the U.S., account for more
than a third of the country’s  carbon dioxide emissions .  Small-scale experiments have been successful enough that,
at this point, engineers have little doubt the technology can
work. Yet efforts in the U.S. to advance it are stalled. What
was to have been the nation’s first commercial-scale project --
at  Mountaineer , a coal-burning electricity plant in  New Haven ,
 West Virginia  -- has been put on hold.  Meanwhile, in China, carbon capture marches steadfastly
ahead, as an article in the May issue of Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports. A pilot project by  China  Huaneng Group Corp.
has been able to remove carbon from coal-plant exhaust for about
$39 per ton of captured CO2, which is a little more than a third
of what it costs in the U.S.  The work has been so impressive, as John Lippert and Chua Baizhen report, that Duke Energy Corp., the largest U.S. energy
company, has signed a research agreement with Huaneng to study
its technology. Duke wants to learn how much it would cost to
retrofit its largest power plant, in Gibson County,  Indiana , to
capture carbon.  The Chinese plant filters the smoke through an aqueous
amine solution rather than through chilled ammonia, as is
commonly done in U.S.  carbon-capture  experiments. Duke would
like to find out how much of Huaneng’s cost savings flow from
its proprietary technology, and how much is attributable to
lower labor and capital costs.  How can it be that China has taken the leadership role on
clean coal? The answer has to do partly with China’s greater
need, given its overwhelming reliance on coal for power. Unlike
the U.S., China lacks huge stores of natural gas to tap as an
alternative.  It also has to do with China’s controlled economy, which
makes it possible for its power plants to take on greater costs
and risks than American electricity providers can.  The Chinese government plans to finance a demonstration
project that, by 2015, captures a million tons of carbon per
year. And energy companies are competing with one another for
the prize.  The U.S. wants cleaner coal, too. On Tuesday, the
Environmental Protection Agency proposed  limits on power-plant
emissions  so strict, they essentially forbid any new coal-fired
generators that lack carbon-capture mechanisms. State and
federal policy makers could take certain steps to  emulate 
China’s success in developing a sturdy platform for innovation
in this technology.  The U.S. already has many promising  experiments  in
progress. One project at  Lehigh University  in Bethlehem,
 Pennsylvania , for example, is financed by the Department of
Energy’s program for advanced research and uses electric fields
to separate carbon from power-plant exhaust.  Other   labs , also
supported by the same program, are developing a synthetic enzyme
to do the same thing.  The trick is to not only experiment with new technologies
but also put them to use in full-size power plants.  State public service commissions that regulate energy
utilities could help by allowing power companies to charge their
customers some of the cost of fitting plants with new carbon-
capture technology. Such an allowance in Indiana, for example,
might encourage Duke to go ahead and deploy the Huaneng
technology on its Gibson County plant.  The federal government, too, could help push the technology
forward, by taking up a smart strategy that has been suggested
by a coalition of oil industry executives, environmentalists and
state officials called the National Enhanced Oil Recovery
Initiative. It has to do with the other side of the carbon-
capture equation -- what to do with the CO2 once you’ve taken it
out of the power-plant exhaust.  China’s Huaneng plant sells its carbon dioxide to companies
that make carbonated drinks and dry ice. Duke envisions turning
it into solid carbonate to be used for building materials or
 road construction . Some innovators are feeding CO2 to
microscopic algae to produce either fuel or proteins used in
nutrition supplements or  animal feed .  But it can also be used to coax more oil out of the earth.
Since 1972, oil companies have injected carbon dioxide taken
from natural sources to free up crude trapped in rock
formations. The industry operates 3,900 miles of pipelines
carrying 65 million tons of CO2 per year, and “enhanced oil
recovery,” as the technique is known, accounts for 6 percent of
U.S. oil production.  With new technology and enough CO2, the industry could use
enhanced recovery to increase production by 67 billion to 137
billion barrels, according to a  report  from the National
Enhanced Oil Recovery Initiative. The report envisions using 20
billion to 45 billion metric tons of CO2 from carbon capture --
the total amount expected to be produced by power plants for the
next 10 to 20 years.  We endorse the coalition’s recommendation that Congress
create a production tax credit for power companies that capture
CO2 and send it to  oil companies  for enhanced recovery. By
increasing domestic oil production, such a credit is estimated
to be able to pay for itself within a decade.  The U.S. will never, and should never, have the kind of
government-directed programs that are helping China advance
carbon-capture technology. But we can learn from China’s success
and clean up coal in our own way.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on Ireland’s  economic woes  and
 Syria ’s  muddled opposition . William Pesek on  Japan’s workplace
discrimination .  Margaret Carlson  on  Trayvon Martin and Al
Sharpton . Meghan O’Sullivan on  Iraq’s economic salvation . Clive Crook on the writings of a  potential World Bank president.   Peter Orszag  and  Peter Diamond  on  Mitt Romney’s Social Security plan .
And  Simon Johnson  and  James Kwak  on how the U.S. became  banker
to the world .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 