-- China Lets Foreign Banks Bring in More Borrowings, WSJ Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-27T09:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/china-lets-foreign-banks-bring-in-more-borrowings-wsj-says-1-.html
China is letting foreign banks
bring more funds borrowed overseas into the country after
 investment  fell for a fourth month, the Wall Street Journal
reported, citing unidentified people familiar with the
situation.  The National Development and Reform Commission, the
country’s top economic planning agency, recently informed the
banks about the increases in foreign debt quotas, which range
from “high double-digit rises” to a more-than-doubling of 2011
levels, the newspaper said on its website. The report didn’t
specify the size of the quotas or give more precise values for
the increases.  Foreign direct investment fell 0.9 percent in February from
a year earlier. Overseas banks in China had about 1 trillion
yuan ($158 billion) of loans outstanding at the end of
September, accounting for 2.3 percent of the nation’s total,
according to the  China  Banking Regulatory Commission.  The government is boosting the quotas after cutting
“drastically in 2008 to stem hot-money inflows led by
expectations on the yuan’s appreciation,” said Lu Ting, a Hong
Kong-based economist at Bank of America Corp. “This is more of
a normalization move.”  The NDRC didn’t immediately respond to a faxed request
today for comment. The agency said in February that banks
including Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. attended a
meeting Feb. 8 to discuss a trial program designed to “support
expansion of foreign debts for qualified parties.”  Expand Businesses  Relaxing the debt quota now when borrowing costs are
relatively lower will help foreign banks expand their businesses
and boost earnings, Lu said. The government is more willing to
loosen controls on overseas borrowing after expectations for
yuan appreciation eased and concerns about hot money inflows
were reduced, he said.  China saw bets on yuan appreciation reverse last quarter
with some central bank indicators pointing to capital outflows
as the nation’s economy cooled and the European debt crisis
worsened. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards traded at 6.3342
at 4:55 p.m. today in  Hong Kong , a 0.4 percent discount to the
onshore spot rate.  The move may be aimed at reforming China’s foreign debt
management by boosting the proportion of medium-to-long-term
debt and to limit short-term borrowing that is “more exposed to
hot money inflows or outflows,” said Ding Shuang, a Hong Kong-
based economist at Citigroup.  Outstanding foreign debt of foreign financial institutions
was $54 billion by the end of 2011, about 12 percent of the
nation’s total registered overseas borrowings, according to data
from the foreign exchange regulator.  China’s short-term borrowings account for about 72 percent
of its total debt and would be equal to 16 percent of the
nation’s foreign exchange reserves, official data show.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  