-- China’s Industrial Company Profits Fall 5.2% on Exports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-27T02:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/china-s-industrial-company-profits-fall-5-2-on-exports.html
Chinese industrial companies had
their first January-February profit decline since 2009 as
slowing exports and a government campaign to cool property
prices damped earnings.  Net income  dropped 5.2 percent from a year earlier to 606
billion yuan ($96 billion), the National Bureau of Statistics
said on its website today. That compared with a 34.3 percent
gain in the first two months of 2011. The bureau didn’t release
a figure for January because of a weeklong Chinese New Year
holiday that disrupted production.  Today’s data may boost odds Premier Wen Jiabao adds to
policy stimulus that has included two cuts since November in
banks’ required reserves. A preliminary gauge of Chinese
manufacturing fell in March to a four-month low, according to a
report last week, sending stocks and commodities down worldwide.  The decline is “clearly alarming,” said Chang Jian, an
economist at  Barclays Capital  in  Hong Kong  who formerly worked
for the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and the  World Bank . “More
policy easing should be on the way, though at a measured pace,”
she said. At the same time, the government is unlikely to
reverse property-market curbs, Chang said.  Accommodative U.S. Policy  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.5 percent at 10:15 a.m.
local time after U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  
said yesterday that continued accommodative monetary policy will 
be needed to make further progress in reducing unemployment.  Starting last year, the statistics bureau began to release
the data on a monthly basis instead of every three months. It
also increased the minimum annual sales for businesses included
in the survey to 20 million yuan from 5 million yuan.  Among 41 industry categories, 23 reported an increase in
profits, 14 saw income fall and one broke even. Companies in the
category of oil refining, coking and nuclear fuel processing
switched from profits to losses, while two other industries saw
losses widen, the bureau said.  January-February profits rose 120 percent in the first two
months of 2010 and fell 37 percent for the same period in 2009.  Companies’  sales  rose 13.4 percent to 12.1 trillion yuan in
the first two months, today’s report showed.  Property restrictions including tighter rules on down
payments, higher mortgage  interest rates  and curbs on multiple
home purchases have helped push prices down nationwide.  Home
prices  fell last month from January in 45 of the 70 cities the
government tracks, with sales values dropping 25 percent in the
first two months, according to statistics bureau data.  Developers' Cash   Developers including Sino-Ocean Land Holdings Ltd. and
 China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688)  are setting up property
funds to diversify sources of revenue and cope with a cash
shortage. Chinese developers’ cash ratio dropped to the lowest
since 2008 in the third quarter last year, according to data on
139 companies compiled by Bloomberg.  “The weakening of corporate results is further evidence of
a slowing economy,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based
strategist with Credit Agricole CIB. The report raises chances
of “more decisive monetary policy easing” by cutting interest
rates or required reserves, while appreciation in the yuan may
be minimal at most, he said.  China reported a February trade shortfall of $31.5 billion,
the biggest in at least 22 years. Exports rose 18.4 percent from
a year earlier, compared with the median analyst estimate of a
31.1 percent gain.  --Zheng Lifei, Li Yanping. Editors: Scott Lanman,  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net ;
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  