-- China Repo Extends Biggest Jump in Five Weeks on Holiday Demand
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-03-27T08:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/china-repo-extends-biggest-jump-in-five-weeks-on-holiday-demand.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
rose, after yesterday climbing the most in five weeks, on
speculation demand for cash will increase before a holiday next
week.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, is still headed for its
biggest quarterly decline in a year as the People’s Bank of
China reduced banks’ reserve requirements twice since the start
of December. China’s financial markets will close on the first
three days of next week for a public holiday.  “The interbank borrowing rate could be volatile later in
the week ahead of next week’s public holiday,” said  Li Wei , a
Shanghai-based economist at Standard Chartered Plc. Still,
“banks are not charging each other high rates because demand
for new loans is low.”  The  repurchase rate  rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 3.31 percent in  Shanghai , after dropping as
much as 39 basis points earlier, according to a weighted average
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. It slid 229
basis points this quarter, the most since the first three months
of 2011.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged March 5 to fine-tune policies
and “appropriately adjust” credit to support growth amid a
“tortuous” road to recovery for the global economy. Central
bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said the following week that the
nation has large scope in theory to lower banks’ reserve
requirements further.  Loans, Profits  China’s banks made 1.45 trillion yuan ($230 billion) of new
loans in January and February, the slowest start to a year since
2008, official figures show. Chinese industrial companies had
their first January-February profit decline since 2009 as
slowing exports and a government campaign to rein in property
prices damped earnings, official figures showed today.  “If we see foreign-exchange outflows accelerate, we may
see another reduction in the reserve ratio,” said Chen Qi, co-
head of fixed-income research at UBS Securities Co. in Shanghai.
Chen said. “There was speculation liquidity would tighten
before quarter-end, but large banks are still lending in the
money market.”  The monetary authority will sell 70 billion yuan ($11
billion) of 28-day  repurchase agreements  today, according to a
trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, was little changed at 3.17 percent,
taking this quarter’s advance to 25 basis points, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  