-- Chongqing Official Fired as China Acts Against Bo’s Legacy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-27T07:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/chongqing-official-fired-as-china-acts-against-bo-xilai-legacy.html
China ’s ruling Communist Party
replaced a senior official in the southwestern municipality of
Chongqing as part of broader changes there after Politburo
member Bo Xilai was ousted from his leadership post.  Chen Cungen was removed as a standing member of the city’s
party committee, the state-run Chongqing Daily reported today.
The city will also scrap “Daily Red Songs,” a television
program begun amid Bo’s efforts to revive the spirit of China’s
Maoist past, the official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday.  The measures add to evidence that the party’s central
leadership is repudiating Bo’s political legacy in Chongqing,
one of the nation’s largest metropolitan areas. The firing of Bo
amid an investigation into his former police chief has
highlighted the party’s goal of securing a stable once-in-a-
decade leadership transition scheduled for later this year.  “He doesn’t have any friends, he is a lone wolf,” Zhao Suisheng, director of the Center for China-U.S. Cooperation at
the University of Denver, said  by phone after meeting with
Chinese officials last week. “Nobody really supports him at the
top.”  Analysts including Zhao said Bo’s chances of winning a spot
on the Standing Committee, the country’s supreme decision-making
body, fell drastically after the police chief, Wang Lijun, spent
a night at the U.S. consulate in Chengdu and was later put under
government investigation.  Switch to Drama  Xinhua said that the “Daily Red Songs” program, which
features performances of tunes celebrating Chairman  Mao Zedong 
and the Communist Party revolution, will now air once a week.
The 15-minute show will be replaced with television dramas,
Xinhua said.  Caixin Online reported yesterday that the police chief of
Chongqing’s Yubei district, Wang Pengfei, has been placed under
investigation. The magazine, citing three police officers it did
not identify, said Wang Pengfei was an aide to Wang Lijun.  After Bo’s ouster, speculation circulated on the Internet
that his dismissal indicated a bigger split in the leadership,
with no response from Party leaders in Beijing and no appearance
in public of the full Politburo Standing Committee.  Image of Unity  Later signals from the party suggested it was trying to
project an image of unity, said Huang Jing, a professor of
political science at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy at
the  National University  of  Singapore .  Four of the members of the nine-man Politburo Standing
Committee appeared at an event together on March 20 in Beijing.
State media also covered several appearances by another Standing
Committee member  Zhou Yongkang , including a meeting with
 Indonesia ’s foreign minister.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  warned yesterday that corruption may
endanger the Communist Party’s survival and pledged to ban the
use of public funds to buy cigarettes and “high-end” alcohol.  Speaking at a State Council meeting, Wen said government
agencies must publish detailed information about spending
related to car purchases and use. He said the government will
step up supervision of officials whose spouses have emigrated
abroad.  “It’s best to keep everything stable during a time of a
leadership transition,” Huang said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  