-- Christie Calls N.J. Supreme Court Nominee’s Defeat a ‘Disgrace’
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-03-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/christie-calls-n-j-supreme-court-nominee-s-defeat-a-disgrace-.html
New Jersey (STONJ1)  Governor  Chris Christie 
said the Senate’s rejection last week of Phillip Kwon, his
nominee for the state  Supreme Court , was a “disgrace” and he
hasn’t selected a replacement.  A confirmation hearing on his candidate for a second
opening on the high court,  Bruce Harris , the Republican mayor of
Chatham, hasn’t been scheduled yet, Christie said. Harris would
become the first openly gay justice, if confirmed.  The Senate Judiciary Committee voted 7-6 along party lines
March 22 to turn down Kwon, who would have been the first Asian-
American on the court. Democrats questioned a $160,000
settlement of U.S. government allegations that family members
sought to avoid financial reporting requirements tied to their
business.  Kwon told the panel he wasn’t involved in his mother’s
business, and said he cautioned her about reporting rules and
helped her get a lawyer. He was the first nominee for the high
court to be rejected by the Senate Judiciary Committee since at
least 1947, according to Winnie Comfort, a spokeswoman for the
New Jersey courts.  “I didn’t have a Plan B, so we’re going to have to go back
and review those candidates we’ve already vetted,” Christie,
49, a first-term Republican, said in his monthly “Ask the
Governor” appearance on WKXW-FM radio in Ewing. “It has to be
done, but I won’t do it in a rushed fashion.”  Committee members said they were concerned that Kwon,
presented as an unaffiliated voter, was formerly a Republican in
 New York  and was part of a plan by Christie to stack the court
in his party’s favor.  Christie had said that if Kwon and Harris were confirmed,
the balance would have been three Republicans, two Democrats and
two independents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  