-- Citigroup Lines Up Managers for Japan Unit After Rule Breaches
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-03-27T07:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/citigroup-said-to-make-peter-eliot-head-of-japan-holding-company.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  lined up executives
to lead Japanese operations as the third-biggest U.S. bank by
assets seeks to restore its reputation in the country following
regulatory breaches.  Peter Eliot will become chief executive officer of the
 Japan  holding company in June, according to a person with
knowledge of the appointment who declined to be identified
because it hasn’t been announced publicly. Kazuya Jono will join
the company from  Sumitomo Mitsui  Banking Corp. to become
president of the banking unit in the same month, the person
said.  Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  is trying to restore
Citigroup’s standing in Japan, where regulators punished the New
York-based lender for at least the third time in seven years in
December. The selections of Eliot and Jono follow the
resignation of  Darren Buckley  from both roles in January.  Mika Nemoto, a spokeswoman for Citigroup in Japan, declined
to comment. The appointments were reported earlier today by the
Nikkei newspaper.  Japan’s Financial Services Agency in December told
Citigroup to stop soliciting sales of products including mutual
funds and currency deposits to retail customers after it failed
to fully explain their risk. That same month, the FSA ordered
the bank’s Japanese securities unit and Swiss lender  UBS AG (UBSN)  to
suspend some derivatives transactions after finding that staff
of the firms attempted to influence interbank lending rates.  Eliot, 54, had been acting chief of the banking unit since
Buckley’s departure. He was formerly head of Citigroup in
 Thailand .  Jono, 57, an executive at Sumitomo Mitsui, joined a
predecessor of the Japanese firm in 1977 after graduating from
University of Tokyo. Most recently he has been responsible for
risk control at the Tokyo-based lender, a unit of Japan’s
second-biggest banking group by market value.  Citigroup had been seeking a Japanese national to run the
local banking unit to ensure the person is familiar with the
nation’s rules and retail market, two people familiar with the
matter said in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  