-- Citigroup Study Shows Asian Rich Topping North American
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-03-28T04:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/citigroup-study-shows-asian-rich-topping-north-american.html
The number of Asians with at least
$100 million in disposable assets overtook  North America ’s tally
for the first time as the world’s “economic center of gravity”
continued moving east,  Citigroup Inc.’s (C)  private bank said.  There were 18,000 “centa-millionaires” in  Southeast Asia ,
China and  Japan  at the end of 2011, compared with 17,000 in
North America and 14,000 in Western Europe, the bank said today
in  The Wealth Report 2012 , published in partnership with Knight
Frank LLP.  The world economy’s center of gravity has moved from the
middle of the Atlantic Ocean in 1980 to a point near the  Suez
Canal  today, the report said, citing calculations by Danny Quah
of the  London  School of Economics. The  International Monetary
Fund  in January cut its forecast for 2012 global growth to 3.3
percent, while saying the 27 countries of developing Asia may
grow by 7.3 percent.  “The number and concentration of centa-millionaires
accentuates the trajectory of current global wealth flows,”
James Lawson, director at Ledbury Research, said in the report.
“Trends seen in this wealth bracket are likely to be replicated
in lower wealth tiers in years to come.”  Li Ka-Shing,  Asia ’s richest man, had a net worth of about
$24.8 billion yesterday, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires
Index ranking the world’s 20 wealthiest individuals. Mukesh
Ambani, chairman and managing director of  India ’s Reliance
Industries Ltd., ranked second with $23.6 billion.  Art, Wine, Sports  The shift of wealth to the east may fuel investment in art,
 wine  and sports from Asia, according to the report. Greater
interest in art investments was expressed last year by a net 32
percent of the region’s holders of more than $25 million, and
interest in wine rose 29 percent.  “When it comes to investments of passion, it seems that
Asia-Pacific could be the region to watch,” the report said.
“At a time of turmoil in the markets, art, wine and sport look
like steady investments, routinely outperforming indices such as
the FTSE 100.”  Valuations of the Indian Premier League, the country’s
domestic cricket franchise, also show increased interest in
sports, the report says.  When the first eight IPL teams were sold in 2007, to
businessmen including Ambani and Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan,
they raised a combined $750 million, according to the report.
When two additional teams joined in 2011, they brought in a
total of more than $700 million.  Fernandes Buys QPR  Other Asians investing in sport include  Tony Fernandes ,
chief executive officer of  Malaysia ’s AirAsia Bhd., who bought a
66 percent stake in English soccer’s Premier League club Queens
Park Rangers in August. He is also involved in Formula One as
the head of Team Lotus.  China  will pass the U.S. to become the largest economy by
2020 and will be overtaken by India in 2050, according to
Citigroup research in the report.  In 2010, the number of centa-millionaires in Southeast
Asia, China and Japan was 16,000, the same as in North America,
and ahead of 13,000 in Western Europe, Grainne Gilmore, head of
U.K. residential research at Knight Frank, said in a telephone
interview from London on March 26. Asia’s tally will rise to
26,000 in 2016, followed by 21,000 in North America and 15,000
in Western Europe, the report predicts.  There’s a wide wealth disparity in countries such as India
and China where the absolute number of millionaires is large,
Debashish Duttagupta, head of investment for Asia-Pacific wealth
management at Citigroup, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in  Hong Kong  today. As a percentage of the population,
the wealthy are a small fraction in these countries, he said.  “Which is why Asia is likely to remain one of the
strongest growing wealth regions in the world for some time to
come,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  