-- Clearwire-Fueled Freebie Services Threaten AT&T, Verizon
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   Y a b l o n
-- 2012-03-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/clearwire-fueled-freebie-services-threaten-at-t-verizon.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  and Verizon Wireless,
working to wring more profit from their next-generation  data
networks , face a new obstacle: Smaller competitors are offering
similar services for free.  FreedomPop, a company funded by Skype founder  Niklas Zennstrom , will sell an iPhone case that gives consumers free
access to 1 gigabyte of data from Clearwire Corp.’s 4G wireless
network. Another Clearwire partner,  United Online Inc. (UNTD) ’s
NetZero, is offering 200 megabytes a month for free for as long
as 12 months -- so long as users buy a wireless modem, which can
take the form of a small USB stick that plugs into the device.  The freebie approach lets new carriers hook bargain-hunting
customers -- with the aim of getting them to pay for extra
bandwidth later -- while helping  Clearwire (CLWR)  recoup some of the
billions of dollars spent building its network. For Verizon and
AT&T, the top U.S. wireless carriers, the move threatens the
combined $12.2 billion they took in from data last quarter.  “FreedomPop could, over time, put pricing pressure on the
incumbents,” said Kevin Smithen, an analyst at Macquarie
Securities USA Inc. in New York. “They have the potential to be
disruptive.”  The phone industry suffered through a similar shakeup in
the last decade, when services such as Skype emerged. Founded in
2003, Skype offers free calling between personal computers -- a
feature that forced phone companies to cut their long-distance
and international calling rates. With  170 million connected
users  last year, Skype has become the world’s largest
international long-distance service. In 2011,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
acquired the company for  $8.5 billion .  ‘Revolutionizing Catalyst’  What Skype did for voice, Clearwire and partners want to do
for data. The idea is to undercut the prices for the service
plans that let smartphones and tablets surf the Web and download
applications. For now, though, the effect won’t be as dramatic
as with Skype, since Clearwire’s network only covers about 70
U.S. cities.  NetZero began a marketing campaign this month, including TV
spots and online ads. It also will promote the service to the
more than 70 million people who use other offerings from parent
company United Online, an  Internet service provider .  “Our goal is to be a revolutionizing catalyst to the
market,” said Mark Goldston, chief executive officer of
 Woodland Hills , California-based United Online. “We think we
have a pretty big appeal.”  Budget Consumers  He expects the service to attract budget-conscious
consumers who use public Wi-Fi hot spots for  Internet access , as
well as the growing number of people with tablets, though those
tablets, too, would need to hook up to a modem. After customers
use up the free 200 megabytes, they would have to pay for data.
Prices start at $9.95 a month for 500 megabytes.  FreedomPop, meanwhile, offers additional data for a penny a
megabyte -- beyond the free 1 gigabyte. The company could
attract 1 million subscribers in about two years, Smithen
estimates. Tony Miller, a spokesman for Los Angeles-based
FreedomPop, declined to discuss the company’s marketing plans.  Clearwire stands to benefit if either service catches on.
FreedomPop probably pays Clearwire about $10 per gigabyte of
capacity, Smithen said.  “It could be worth a couple of hundred million dollars a
year, with high margins,” he said.  The Bellevue, Washington-based company could use the boost.
Clearwire’s stock has fallen 93 percent since peaking in 2007.
The company lost more than $2.5 billion over the past five years
as it built out its network.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  is currently
its largest customer.  Price Hikes  The new services may attract users who are frustrated by
rate increases at AT&T and other carriers. In January, AT&T
raised the price of its data plans for new customers by $5 a
month. Verizon announced plans for a $2 fee on some users in
December, then backed away from the proposal after complaints
from outraged customers. Verizon also stopped offering unlimited
data plans to new users last year.  Carriers are coping with burgeoning data traffic, forcing
them to be more vigilant about customers’ data usage, said  Steve Clement , an analyst at  Portland , Oregon-based Pacific Crest
Securities LLC.  “The trends recently have been to increase prices to deal
with scarcity,” he said. Without a viable competitive threat,
prices will at least stay at current levels, if they don’t rise
higher, he said.  Mark Siegel , a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T, and  Brenda Raney , a representative for  Basking Ridge , New Jersey-based
 Verizon Wireless , declined to comment.  Wireless ‘Duopoly’  In recent years, the U.S. wireless market has turned into
“a duopoly,” with AT&T and Verizon grabbing most new wireless
subscribers, according to  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. The two companies have generated 85 percent
of the industry’s free cash, not including funds that were
reinvested back into building out networks, he said.  Other companies are competing on price, even without going
the freebie route.  Republic Wireless , a division of
Bandwidth.com Inc., offers unlimited voice, text and data for
$19 a month. The company, which resells network capacity from
Sprint, is rolling out a trial version of the service and filled
up all the available spots in eight hours. The service doesn’t
require users to sign up for a contract.  ‘Freedom Model’  “Traditional telecom is all about control,” said Republic
Wireless General Manager Brian Dally. “On the Internet, we are
used to a freedom model. We stand for bringing those Internet
values to telecom.”  Lower-priced wireless services are already putting the
squeeze on existing carriers in other countries. In  Canada , for
instance, new entrants to the market have undercut data pricing
by 83 percent, according to a  report  last year from Convergence
Consulting Group. Convergence expects new carriers to have 4
million subscribers, or 12 percent of Canada’s wireless market,
by the end of 2014. That’s up from 5 percent at the end of 2011.  Across the border, U.S. consumers also are increasingly
looking beyond the main four carriers, said Emily Smith, an
 analyst  at Pyramid Research. Young people in particular may be
interested in something like FreedomPop, she said.  “There’s a growing awareness among American consumers that
there are cheaper alternatives to the top four,” Smith said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Yablon in  New York , at 
 ayablon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  