-- Coffee-Price Gap to Narrow at Slower Pace, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-03-27T08:55:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/coffee-price-gap-to-narrow-at-slower-pace-morgan-stanley-says.html
A gap between coffee prices is set
to narrow at a slower pace on stronger demand for arabica beans
and higher sales of the robusta variety from  Vietnam , Morgan
Stanley said.  The difference shrank by 22 percent in the past month as
farmers in Vietnam, the biggest global robusta grower, withheld
crops and traders sold arabica beans in anticipation of a record
Brazilian harvest. Arabica was 88.16 cents a pound more
expensive than robusta by 9:08 a.m. London time, down from
113.34 cents a month ago,  data  on Bloomberg show.  “We expect this decline to slow in the coming months as
oversold arabica prices are likely to spur incremental demand
with further downside risk to production remaining in  Brazil  and
 Colombia  and as Vietnamese robusta producers start to increase
sales,”  Hussein Allidina , head of commodities research at
Morgan Stanley in  New York , wrote in a report e-mailed
yesterday.  Dry weather in Brazil, the world’s biggest coffee grower,
continues to threaten production even as the government predicts
a record crop, Allidina said. National output will likely rise
to a record 49 million to 52.3 million bags in the season
starting in July as trees enter the higher-yielding half of a
two-year cycle, the government estimates.  Output in Colombia, the second-biggest arabica producer,
may “struggle” to reach 8.1 million bags, compared to 8.9
million bags in the previous season, Morgan Stanley said.  Farmers in Vietnam are likely to increase sales before
harvesting starts in Brazil and Indonesia, the third-largest
robusta producer, Allidina said. A bag of coffee weighs 60
kilograms (132 pounds).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at oir
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 