-- College Entrance Exam Security Tightened After Scandal
-- B y   I a n   T h o m a s
-- 2012-03-27T19:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/college-entrance-exam-security-tightened-after-scandal.html
Security at U.S. college entrance
examinations will be tightened this fall after widespread
cheating was disclosed last year, testing officials and the
Nassau County, New York, district attorney’s office said.  Procedures to prevent students from hiring stand-in test-
takers were  announced today  in the Long Island county, where
students were charged last fall with hiring someone to take the
SAT and ACT standard entrance tests for them.  Students registering for the exams will be required to
provide photos of themselves that will be printed on their
admission tickets and on a roster to be checked at the test
site. Students may face spot checks of their identities, under a
10-point program.  “These reforms close a gaping hole in standardized test
security that allowed students to cheat and steal admissions
offers and scholarship money from kids who played by the
rules,” District Attorney Kathleen M. Rice said at a news
conference in Mineola, New York. “Honest applicants will not
take a back seat to cheaters, and that those who cheat will be
caught.”  Rice was joined by officials of ACT and the College Board,
which runs the SAT test with the Educational Testing Service of
Princeton,  New Jersey .  The scandal broke on Sept. 27, when six current and former
students at Great Neck North High School -- located about 20
miles east of  Manhattan  -- were charged with taking part in a
scheme to pay Samuel Eshaghoff, a Great Neck North alumni, from
$1,500 to $2,000 to take their tests for them.  Reports of Cheating  The investigation began last year when faculty members at
Great Neck North heard rumors that students were paying someone
to take the SAT for them and identified six students who had sat
for the test at a different school and whose academic records
diverged from their SAT scores, Rice’s office said.  The students registered to take the exam at a different
school, where they wouldn’t be recognized, and Eshaghoff
presented identification bearing his photograph and the paying
student’s name, Rice’s office said.  Eshaghoff, who attended Emory University in Atlanta last
year after spending his freshman year at the  University of
Michigan , flew back from college at least once to impersonate
two students and took the test twice in one weekend, and at one
point took the exam for a female student, according to
authorities.  Plea Agreement  He made a plea agreement with prosecutors to do community
service, he told an interviewer on a January “60 Minutes”
segment on CBS. Rice today declined to comment on his case.  Another 13 people were charged with cheating on the SAT and
ACT tests on Nov. 22, after Rice’s office said it identified
nine more students who paid four others $500 to $3,600 to take
the examinations for them over three years. Their cases are
pending, Rice said.  The district attorney’s office last year identified more
than 50 students who took tests for others or hired stand-ins
for themselves, according to today’s statement.  The Educational Testing Service, the nonprofit Princeton,
New Jersey-based organization that administers the test, and the
New York-based  College Board , which sponsors the exam, said
after the arrests that they hired former FBI director  Louis Freeh ’s organization to review security.  ACT hired Guideposts Solutions LLC, a New York-based
consulting firm, to do its own internal investigation, the
company said.  Impersonation Rare  Impersonation cases are rare, and the most common form of
cheating is one student copying the work of another, Tom Ewing,
an ETS spokesman, said after the first group of students was
charged. Ewing said that ETS investigated the case for three to
four months before contacting the district attorney’s office and
handed over the information it had gathered.  With Rice were Jon Erickson, president of ACT Education,
and Kathryn Juric, vice president of the College Board for the
SAT program.  “Under our revised test security protocols, test security
will be enhanced by the latest Web and photography technology,
while being reinforced by the people who know the students best
-- the teachers and counselors at their high schools,” Erickson
said at the press conference.  Students who take the SAT or the ACT after the additional
security measures are implemented won’t pay any new charges,
Erickson and Juric said. The testing companies will cover the
costs. ACT will use money from a cash reserve it has “for
instances like this,” Erickson said.  Guidance counselors, school administrators and college
admissions professionals will check to see if the student photos
match, Rice said.  “High schools have to accept responsibility, period,” she
said. “They’re going to be in the best position to know if a
person who showed up to take the test is actually the person
they purport to be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Thomas in  New York 
at   ithomas15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  