-- Condom Queues Incite Church Tensions in Philippines
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2012-03-27T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/condom-queues-incite-church-tensions-in-philippines.html
Lorna Villar gave birth seven times
in 14 years. After her last pregnancy pushed the 34-year-old’s
 blood pressure  to dangerous levels, the Manila mom says
contraception became a life or death matter.  Villar now lines up in a crowded clinic between an auto
repair shop and a kiosk selling sodas to avoid more pregnancies.
The intrauterine device she had inserted free by a charity puts
her among the 34 percent of Filipino women ages 15 to 49 using
modern birth control -- about the same proportion as in Myanmar
and  Iraq , United Nations  data  show.  “It’s such a relief to know I won’t fall pregnant again,”
says Villar, sitting on the concrete floor of her windowless,
20 square meter (215 square feet) home in Tondo, one of  Manila ’s
poorest neighborhoods. The 7,000 pesos ($160) a month her
husband makes driving cranes and ferrying people in a tricycle
taxi is barely enough to live off, she says.  One in five women of reproductive age in the Philippines
have an unmet family planning need, the UN Population Fund says,
leading to unintended pregnancies and  population  growth twice
the Asian average. Relief may come from a reproductive health
bill backed by President  Benigno Aquino  that promises free or
subsidized contraception, especially for the poor, says Ugochi
Daniels, the fund’s country representative in the Philippines.  “This bill is the silver bullet to make the problem more
manageable,” says  Carlos Celdran , an activist in Manila who was
jailed for a day after a protest he staged at a 2010 bishop’s
meeting in the city’s  cathedral . “How can people not see this
as an emergency situation?”  Presidential Support  The bill has been re-filed and blocked in each three-year
congressional term since it was introduced in legislature 14
years ago amid opposition from the Catholic Church -- the faith
of at least 80 percent of the nation’s 95 million  people . This
time, with presidential support, it may be put to a vote in
congress in three months.  “It’s the closest it’s come to being legislated,” said
Ramon San Pascual, executive director of Manila-based lobby
 Philippine Legislators’ Committee on Population and Development
Foundation Inc.  “If it doesn’t get voted on in June, we may
have to wait another two years.”  Likhaan, the non-governmental organization running the
women’s health center where Villar had her IUD fitted, says the
bill will curb poverty by reducing unplanned pregnancies for
young, working-age women, improving their household finances.
State assistance will also reduce the queues at the clinic, run
out of a lime-green, single-story building, where women wait as
long as two hours for condoms,  birth-control  pills and other
contraceptives.  God’s Role  Using artificial contraception “is a denial of the natural
life-giving powers that God gave us,” said James Imbong,
assistant legal counsel to the  Catholic Bishops’ Conference of
the Philippines.  “Who are we to say that five children are too
many? Children are gifts. If you interfere with that, you are
denying that creative role God gave us.”  The  Philippines (PHGDPC)  doesn’t have a national reproductive health
policy, the Population Fund says, giving it no mandate for
state-supported family planning services or a standardized model
for school-based sex education. That leaves low-income families
like Villar’s turning to non-governmental organizations and
charities for help.  While the wealthiest 20 percent of women in the country
have an average of 1.9 babies, the poorest fifth deliver 5.2,
according to the 2008  National Demographic and Health Survey . In
the bottom income bracket, 44.1 percent of women aged 15 to 24
had begun childbearing, according to the survey, more than three
times of those in the same age range of the wealthiest quintile.  Unsafe Abortion  Thirty-seven percent of pregnancies in the  Philippines  are
unplanned, according to World Health Organization data. Of
those, more than a third end in abortion that’s illegal and
often unsafe, the  Guttmacher Institute , a New York-based sexual
and reproductive health policy researcher,  says .  If the contraceptive pill, condoms, intrauterine devices
and other means of modern birth control were extended to all
women at risk of unintended pregnancies, there would be 2,100
fewer maternal deaths and 500,000 fewer induced abortions each
year, the Guttmacher Institute  says . The country’s progress on
improving reproductive care means the Philippines has a “low”
 probability  of attaining UN  Millennium Development Goals  on
maternal health, according to the UN Development Programme.  “The Philippines can definitely do much better in terms of
reproductive-health goals if they want to sustain their
development,” says Saramma Mathai, team coordinator and
maternal health adviser for the UN Fund’s Asia Pacific Regional
Office in Bangkok.  Economic Laggard  The Philippine  economy  grew 3.7 percent last year, slower
than the 5.8 percent average clip for Southeast Asian neighbors
 Indonesia , Malaysia and  Vietnam , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Among ages 15 to 24, premarital sexual activity increased
to 23 percent in 2002 from 1994, according to a 2004 University
of the Philippines Population Institute study. The Church says
giving teens contraceptives will push that rate even higher.  “There are no circumstances where the Church supports the
use of contraceptives for the purposes of preventing
conception,” said John Haas, president of the Philadelphia-
based  National Catholic Bioethics Center , who was appointed as
an ordinary member of the  Pontifical Academy for Life  at the
Vatican by  Pope Benedict XVI . Instead, the church recommends
natural family planning, where married couples refrain from sex
at times of the menstrual cycle when the woman is most likely to
conceive, he said.  ‘Protect Children’  “When one uses contraception, it violates what makes sense
of marriage of a man and a woman coming together: the child,”
said Haas, who has nine children. “If children didn’t result
from copulation, there wouldn’t be the institution of marriage.
Marriage is to protect children that arise from sexual
relations.”  The self-rated  poverty rate  last year was 52 percent,
according to SWS, a nonprofit social research institution. In
1986, when  Ferdinand Marcos ’s presidency ended and the country
had 39 million fewer people, the rate was 66 percent.  “We are close to hitting 100 million people,” says
Celdran, the reproductive health activist. “People say if we
keep trying to teach the poor, we will solve this problem.
That’s shocking.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net ;
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  