-- Copper Falls as U.S. Data Boosts Dollar, Dents Stimulus Case
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-03-27T18:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/copper-may-rise-for-third-day-on-federal-reserve-policy-outlook.html
Copper fell for the first time in
three sessions in  New York  as evidence that the  U.S. economy  is
on firmer footing boosted the dollar and weakened the case for
additional economic stimulus from the Federal Reserve.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values showed home
prices in 20 U.S. cities dropped at a slower pace in January,
while  consumer confidence  in March held close to the highest
level in a year, the New York-based Conference Board said. The
 dollar  rebounded from a three-week low against a basket of
currencies, reducing the appeal of the metal as an alternative
investment.  “Dollar strength is weighing on the market,” Harry Denny,
a broker at Hoboken, New Jersey-based PVM Futures Inc., said in
a telephone interview. “Until the Fed sees that housing has
fully recovered, they’ll hint at stimulus. But I think they’ll
just leave that on the table.”  Copper futures for May delivery retreated 0.2 percent to
settle at $3.88 a pound at 1:17 p.m. on the Comex in New York.
Prices gained 3.2 percent in the previous two sessions, and have
risen 13 percent this quarter.  The metal climbed the most in almost five weeks yesterday
after  Federal Reserve  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said continued
accommodative monetary policy will be needed to make further
progress in lowering unemployment.  On the  London  Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months was unchanged at $8,535 a metric ton ($3.87 a pound).  Lead and nickel declined in London. Aluminum, tin and zinc
rose.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  