-- Oil Trims Quarterly Advance on U.S. Supply Speculation
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-03-27T12:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/crude-oil-futures-drop-in-new-york-trimming-quarterly-advance.html
Oil traded near its highest closing
level in three days as gains in equities tempered signs of
faltering demand in the U.S. and China.  West Texas Intermediate recovered from earlier declines as
stocks advanced, with the Nikkei 225 Stock Average erasing
losses from last year’s earthquake, after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled he will continue to stimulate
the  U.S. economy . U.S. crude stockpiles probably  rose  to a six-
month high last week, a Bloomberg News survey showed. Profits at
Chinese industrial companies fell in the first two months of the
year for the first time since 2009.  “ Oil prices  are expected to remain high,” said Thina
Margethe Saltvedt, an analyst at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  in Oslo who
predicts  Brent crude  will average $124 a barrel this year.
“Liquidity-boosting measures from the world’s most powerful
central banks increase appetite for risk assets.”  Oil for May delivery was at $106.93 a barrel, 10 cents
lower in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 1:07 p.m. London time. It had slid as much as 36 cents to
$106.67. Yesterday’s close of $107.03 was the highest since
March 21. Prices have risen 8.2 percent this year and are headed
for a second quarterly gain.  Brent for May settlement was at $125.21, down 44 cents, on
the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European
benchmark contract’s premium to New York-traded West Texas
Intermediate was at $18.28. It closed at $18.62 yesterday.  Technical Support  Oil in  New York  has technical support at $103.39 a barrel,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s a horizontal
resistance line going back to May 31 last year, which was
surpassed on Feb. 17. It also coincides with a Fibonacci
retracement level on the weekly chart. Buy orders tend to be
clustered near chart-support levels.  U.S. crude inventories increased 2.8 million barrels, or
0.8 percent, to 349.1 million in the seven days ending March 23,
according to the median of six analyst estimates in the
Bloomberg News survey before tomorrow’s Energy Department
report. That would be the fifth gain in six weeks. Stocks
increased after weather-related delays along the  Gulf of Mexico 
subsided.  Gasoline stockpiles  probably fell 1.7 million barrels and
distillate supplies, a category that includes heating oil and
diesel, slid 250,000 barrels, the survey shows.  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release separate
inventory data today. The API collects stockpile information on
a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals
and pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed
with the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  Seaway Expansion  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  and  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  will more
than double the capacity of the Seaway Pipeline from Cushing,
Oklahoma to the U.S.  Gulf Coast  to 850,000 barrels a day by
mid-2014, the companies said in a statement yesterday. The
companies are reversing the pipeline to alleviate a glut of oil
in the Midwest. Calgary-based Enbridge also said it will expand
its Flanagan South project that takes oil from Illinois to the
Gulf Coast.  Bernanke cited “high” levels of long-term unemployment
and wages and hours worked that are below pre-crisis peaks in
his speech in Arlington, Virginia. Oil rose yesterday after he
also said that “continued accommodative monetary policy” can
stimulate the economy.  The New York-based Conference Board’s consumer  confidence 
gauge, due today, probably fell to 70.1 this month from a one-
year high of 70.8 in February, according to the median of
analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Chinese industrial companies had their first January-
February  profit  decline in three years amid slowing exports and
a government campaign to cool property prices. Net income
dropped 5.2 percent from a year earlier to 606 billion yuan ($96
billion), the National Bureau of Statistics said on its website
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  