-- Crude Declines for First Day in Four on Rising Stockpiles
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-03-28T12:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/crude-oil-declines-for-first-day-in-four-in-new-york-trading.html
Oil declined for the first time in
four days amid signs of increasing supply in the U.S. and
speculation that western countries may tap emergency reserves.  New York futures slipped as much as 1.2 percent before a
government report that may show inventories rose to a six-month
high last week. Prices also declined after French Industry
Minister Eric Besson said the U.S. proposed releasing oil from
strategic reserves to curb rising prices.  “Talk of releasing strategic stocks is the main impact on
oil today,” said Thorbjorn Bak Jensen, an analyst at Global
Risk Management in Middelfart,  Denmark , highlighting planned
elections in the U.S. and  France  where  Barack Obama  and  Nicolas
Sarkozy  are in office. “It is election year for Sarkozy and
Obama, and we may see lower exports from Iran, so they may have
a good reason to release stocks in the months ahead.”  Oil for May delivery fell as much as $1.32 to $106.01 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $106.09 at 1:16 p.m. London time. It gained 30 cents
yesterday to $107.33, the highest close since March 19. Prices
are 7.4 percent higher this year and headed for a second
consecutive quarterly gain.  Brent oil for May settlement slid $1.37 to $124.17 a barrel
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European
benchmark contract’s  premium , or spread, to West Texas
Intermediate was at $18.08, compared with $18.21 yesterday.  Strategic Release  The U.S. is weighing the option of using its Strategic
Petroleum Reserve to ease potential supply restrictions, an
Energy Department official said yesterday, echoing comments by
Secretary Steven Chu in recent weeks.  “It is being considered,” Charles McConnell, acting
assistant secretary for fossil energy, said at a hearing in
 Washington . “It has been in consideration for some time, and no
decision has been made.”  The IEA, the energy adviser to 28 countries, coordinated
the release of reserves last year after crude exports were
disrupted from  Libya .  The French government welcomed a U.S. proposal to release
fuel, Besson said today in Paris after a cabinet meeting. France
is waiting for an IEA report on inventories before making a
decision, according to Valerie Pecresse, France’s budget
minister, who spoke at a later press conference.  Crude has gained this year because of concern that Western
sanctions aimed at halting the country’s nuclear program will
disrupt Middle East supplies. Iran has threatened to shut the
 Strait of Hormuz , a transit route for a fifth of the world’s
oil, in response to an embargo on its oil exports.  Market Oversupplied  U.S. oil stocks jumped  3.6 million barrels , while gasoline
stocks increased 1.3 million barrels, the  American Petroleum
Institute  said yesterday. Stocks of the motor fuel are estimated
to fall  1.6 million barrels  in today’s Energy Department report,
according to the median of 12 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. Distillate inventories, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, slipped 1.4 million barrels, the API
said, compared with a forecast for a 500,000-barrel decline.  “We have an oversupply in the oil market, and we expect
data from the Department of Energy today to show stocks will
rise further,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank
AG in  Frankfurt . “There is nothing new on the  Iran  front,
suggesting this situation isn’t escalating further, so there is
no impetus to buy.”  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  Iran will meet with representatives from the U.S. and five
other countries for talks over its nuclear program on April 14
in Istanbul, the first such negotiations in almost 15 months,
the Wall Street Journal reported, citing a senior European Union
diplomat it didn’t identify. Iran is OPEC’s second-biggest
producer after  Saudi Arabia .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  