-- Csanyi of OTP Says Hungary Eurobond Before IMF Hurts Credibility
-- B y   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-03-27T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/csanyi-of-otp-says-hungary-eurobond-before-imf-hurts-credibility.html
Hungary  would undermine its
credibility by selling Eurobonds before obtaining a loan from
the  International Monetary Fund , warned the chief executive
officer of the nation’s largest bank.  “The government selling Eurobonds before an IMF agreement
is not a good idea,” Sandor Csanyi, OTP Bank Nyrt.’s chairman
and CEO, said yesterday in Budapest. “Such a move would reduce
the government’s credibility” when it comes to its intentions
of reaching an agreement on an IMF loan.  Hungarian Premier  Viktor Orban  has failed to meet European
Union conditions to start talks on an IMF-led loan four months
after he requested aid as the forint fell to a record against
the euro and the country’s sovereign credit grade was cut to
junk.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Nomura International Plc
and 4Cast Ltd. said this month that the government may sell
foreign-currency debt before a deal to reduce funding pressures.  An IMF loan is “crucial” for Hungary and the government
will obtain it because “it’s in the interest of the government
and in the interest of everyone in Hungary,” said Csanyi, 59.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive, has blocked
the start of talks on a loan, citing concerns about new laws
affecting the independence of the central bank, the judiciary
and the data-protection agency. The Commission has also voiced
concerns about media pluralism in Hungary.  Bonds, Forint  The delay drove up bond yields and pushed down the forint,
busting a rally that began with Orban promising a swift bailout
agreement in January.  The forint has weakened 1.8 percent since reaching its
strongest level in five months on Feb. 21. The currency was
little changed yesterday, trading at 291.68 per euro at 6:09
p.m. in Budapest. The currency has advanced 8 percent this year
after a 15 percent decline in the second half of 2011.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond rose to
9.03 percent yesterday from 8.98 percent on March 26. The yield
reached 10.8 percent on Jan. 4, the highest ever for that
security.  The government may sell foreign-currency denominated bonds
before an IMF deal as market conditions are “very suitable”
for an issue, Debt Management Agency Chief Executive Officer
Istvan Torocskei said, Reuters reported on March 22. The best
conditions for such a sale would be after an IMF agreement, the
 Economy Ministry  said on March 26, according to the state news
service MTI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Winkler in New York at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net 
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  