-- Formula One Owner Said to Hire Goldman, RBS in Refinance
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-03-27T16:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/cvc-said-to-hire-goldman-rbs-for-formula-one-loan-refinancing.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. hired
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc to
refinance the loan that funded its buyout of Formula One,
according to three people with knowledge of the situation.  As part of the refinancing, the private-equity firm plans
to transfer about $1 billion in cash from the operating assets
of the auto-racing series to a company holding the Formula One
stake, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the deal is private.  Formula One started the process of extending its debt,
which involves raising $2.27 billion of new credit facilities
due in 2017 and 2018 to replace its existing $2.92 billion in
loans due in 2013 and 2014, according to a  statement  today on
the company’s website.  The $1 billion in cash may be used to pay a dividend to
Formula One’s shareholders or for acquisitions in the future,
according to the people.  “Proceeds raised will be kept within the group for general
corporate purposes and the company has no current plans to pay a
dividend,” Formula One said in the statement. “The new
facilities will provide the business with a secure, long term
capital structure.”  CVC is proposing a new term loan B of $1.38 billion and a
new term loan C of $817 million for Formula One, with an
interest margin of 500 basis points more than the  London 
interbank offered rate, the people said. The Libor floor will be
1.25 percent. There is also a new $70 million revolving-credit
facility paying interest margin of 450 basis points, according
to the people.  Bank Meeting  Lenders are invited to a bank meeting on March 30 in
London, said the people.  CVC is exploring a possible sale of a stake in Formula One
in an initial public offering that may value the company at more
than $10 billion, a person with knowledge of the matter said
March 20.  CVC accumulated a controlling stake in Formula One in 2006
using $2.5 billion of loans. Other shareholders include the
administrators of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which hold 15.3
percent, and Formula One Chief Executive Officer  Bernie Ecclestone ’s former wife, Slavica, who owns 8.5 percent through
Bambino Holdings. The racing series had annual sales of 1.17
billion euros ($1.56 billion) and employs 200 people, according
to CVC’s website.  Libor, the rate at which banks say they can borrow in
dollars from each other, serves as a reference for about $360
trillion of financial instruments worldwide. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassanyin London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  