-- TD Shifts to Business Loans in Consumer Slump: Corporate Canada
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-03-27T13:28:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/td-shifts-to-business-loans-in-consumer-slump-corporate-canada.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  plans to
focus on business lending, credit cards and Quebec to counter a
slowdown in profit for Canadian  consumer banking , the lender’s
largest business unit.  “We had this period of extraordinary levels of growth,
both beyond our expectations and relative to the competition,”
said Tim Hockey, head of Canadian banking. “Now we’re going
back to more normal rates of growth.”  Hockey said the Canadian business, which has expanded as
much as three times faster than some of its competitors, will be
pressured by slowing demand for personal loans and tighter
margins on products such as mortgages. Toronto-Dominion expects
to increase profit at the unit in the “mid-to-high single-
digit” level in fiscal 2012, he said.  That follows average  profit  gains of 16 percent over the
past seven years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. By
comparison, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce has climbed 5
percent,  National Bank of Canada (NA)  by 6 percent, and almost 11
percent at  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  over the same period.  The profit gains have made Toronto-Dominion the second-best
performing stock among Canada’s six-biggest lenders over the
past five years, with a total  return  of 40 percent, double the
gain for the  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Banks Index (STBANKX) .  A Canadian banking slowdown may reduce earnings growth for
the banks this year. Operating  profit  is expected to climb an
average of 6 percent in 2012, compared with a 15 percent
increase in 2011, according to Sumit Malhotra, an analyst at
Macquarie Capital Markets in Toronto.  Rising Debt  Lending may slow amid warnings by Bank of Canada Governor
 Mark Carney  that record-high household debt levels have become a
growing concern and that  consumer spending  needs to slow.  “When we look at the overall level of consumer
indebtedness, and the inevitable potentiality of  interest rates 
increasing, then it does seem that there are a growing
proportion of consumers that are more on the edge,” Hockey, 48,
said in an interview from his Toronto office.  Toronto-Dominion doubled its domestic consumer banking
operations with the C$8 billion ($8 billion)  purchase  of CT
Financial Services Inc. in 2000. Hockey’s unit, which has about
1,150 branches across the country, posted record profit of C$826
million in the first quarter ended Jan. 31.  “We have a dead-simple strategy that’s been executed for
over a decade,” said Hockey, who has been with the bank for 28
years. “We will compete primarily on service and convenience.”  Business Bankers  Toronto-Dominion says its Canadian branches are open 50
percent longer than competitors, including 400 branches that are
open on Sundays, Hockey said.  “Even in this day of mobile and Internet, customers love
to be able to come in and do banking on their terms,” said
Hockey. “All of those things over time are what drive the
growth and momentum.”  Corporate lending is becoming a priority after  Canada ’s
second-largest lender almost tripled its number of business
bankers to 1,420 over the last five years. Business lending
volume growth increased 14 percent in the fiscal first quarter,
Hockey said.  “We’re taking market share and consistently reaping the
benefits of those investments we made in 2009 and 2010,” Hockey
said in a March 21 interview. “It probably takes two to three
years minimum to get them really productive, so they’re just
hitting their stride now.”  The Toronto-based bank also expanded its credit-card
business by purchasing Bank of America’s MBNA card business in
December for about C$7.5 billion. The acquisition allows
Toronto-Dominion to offer Visa and MasterCard products,
expanding its share of the Canadian card market to 19 percent
from 6 percent, Hockey said.  Risk Appetite  After dropping card clients who “won’t fit in with our
risk appetite,” Hockey said he would be happy with Toronto-
Dominion having 22 percent to 24 percent share in the Canadian
card business.  Macquarie’s Malhotra expects TD’s Canadian bank operations
to continue outperforming its peers this year.  “No bank in the country has as consistently managed the
revenue versus expense relationship as well as TD,” said
Malhotra, who rates TD shares ‘outperform.’ “When you add in
the MBNA Canada book, we see the Canadian banking unit at TD
delivering 11 percent growth this year.”  Toronto-Dominion also plans to grow in the province of
 Quebec , where it has 114 branches. Hockey plans to add locations
in Canada’s second-most populous province faster than the rest
of the country. The bank typically adds 25 to 30 branches across
Canada per year.  “We’re investigating how fast we can ramp that up,”
Hockey said. “I’m not going to take all 25 new branches this
year and say only Quebec. But I will say that Quebec will get
more than its fair share of branch openings now and in the
foreseeable future, because it’s a great growth opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  