-- HD Supply Sets Rate on $1 Billion Loan to Refinance Debt
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-03-27T21:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/hd-supply-sets-rate-on-1-billion-loan-to-refinance-debt-1-.html
HD Supply Inc., the industrial
distribution company partly owned by Carlyle Group LP, Bain
Capital LLC and Clayton, Dubilier & Rice LLC, set the  interest
rate  it will pay on a $1 billion  term loan  it’s seeking to
refinance debt, according to a person with knowledge of the
transaction.  The debt, due in 5.5 years, will pay interest at 5.5
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the terms
are private. Libor, the rate banks say they can borrow in
dollars from each other, will have a 1.25 percent floor.  HD Supply is proposing to sell the loan at 97.5 cents on
the dollar, the person said, reducing proceeds for the company
and boosting the yield to investors.  Bank of America Corp., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Barclays
Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG, JPMorgan Chase &
Co.,  Wells Fargo & Co . and UBS AG are arranging the term loan,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Atlanta-based company is also seeking to refinance its
existing asset-based credit line with a new $1.5 billion asset-
based revolving line of credit, the data show. GE Capital
Markets, the lending unit of General Electric Co., is arranging
that piece.  In addition to the refinancing, the company is marketing a
private offering of first-lien notes due 2019 and second-lien
notes that mature in 2020, it said yesterday in a statement.  12 Percent Notes  Proceeds from the new covenant-lite term loan B, along with
drawings under the new $1.5 billion asset-based revolving line
of credit and the new debt, will be used to refinance the
company’s 12 percent senior notes due in 2014, said the person.
HD Supply issued $2.5 billion of the notes in 2009, according to
Bloomberg data show.  Quiana Pinckney, a spokeswoman for HD Supply, declined to
comment.  Carlyle, Bain and Clayton, Dubilier & Rice acquired HD
Supply for $8.5 billion in August 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  In a revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed a
once it’s repaid; in a term loan it can’t. An asset-based
financing is secured by the borrower’s inventory and account
receivables.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chapin Wright at 
 cwright4@bloomberg.net  