-- Dear Al Sharpton: Leave Trayvon Martin Alone
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-03-27T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/dear-al-sharpton-leave-trayvon-martin-alone.html
The last thing the family of
Trayvon Martin needs is Al Sharpton.  The family of Martin, the teenager who was shot and killed
last month in  Florida  by a neighborhood watch volunteer, has yet
to get any justice. But the case is getting lots of attention --
from  editorial  and  op-ed  pages, on cable talk shows, even  from
the president . All without the help of Sharpton, thank you.  As  Barack Obama  tried to say on Friday, Martin is
everyone’s son. Even if you can look away from the cases of
Harvard professor Henry Louis Gates, arrested on his own front
porch in 2009 for burglary, or Amadou Diallo, the unarmed
African immigrant gunned down in a hail of 41 bullets in 1999 by
undercover New York City cops, you can’t look away from the
killing of Martin.  He was a typical teenager, bright-eyed in every photo,
 beaming  in his Wolverines football jersey, hugging his brother
and mother on a skiing trip. He was the kid who washed cars and
painted houses for extra money while taking advanced math and
English in preparation for college.  As with rape victims, the past is now being mined for
evidence that Martin asked for that bullet to the chest. Some
Facebook photos and a  residue of marijuana  in a plastic bag,
which got him suspended from school, have been adduced. However
upsetting to his teachers and parents these revelations may be,
they have nothing to do with what happened that night.  Walking While Black  He died for the crime of Walking While Black, or maybe
Eating Skittles While Black. George Zimmerman now says he shot
the unarmed Martin in self-defense after Martin broke his nose
and banged Zimmerman’s head on the ground (although Zimmerman
did not seek immediate medical attention). But from the 911
recording we know Zimmerman called the police to report his
suspicions and was told not to follow Martin but did anyway.  That recording  is all you need to have for probable cause
for the arrest of Zimmerman. Yet Martin is dead, and Zimmerman
is free.  The role of Al Sharpton in this case would be to divert
attention from Trayvon Martin and onto Al Sharpton. This is what
happened with the Tawana Brawley case in 1987, when Sharpton was
a perpetrator of racial injustice intent on making a name for
himself. Sharpton joined two other black activists, Alton Maddox
Jr. and C. Vernon Mason, in glomming onto 15-year-old Brawley,
who’d disappeared for four days from her upstate New York home
and was found lying unresponsive in a black garbage bag, smeared
with dog feces, with racial slurs written on her body. She
claimed that two to six white men had abducted and repeatedly
raped her.  There was no forensic evidence to back up her story. In
fact, there was much evidence to indicate she was lying, that
Sharpton knew she was lying, and that he didn’t care as long as
the cameras were clicking. Brawley refused to testify on the
advice and with the support of Sharpton, who said to cooperate
would be like “asking someone who watched someone killed in the
gas chamber to sit down with Mr. Hitler.” He didn’t relent even
after local authorities were removed and a special prosecutor
named.  As it turned out, there were so many inconsistencies in
Brawley’s story that the grand jury threw out the case. The rape
kit showed there was no sexual assault. Despite four days of
supposedly being held in the woods, she did not suffer from
exposure, was well-nourished and had recently brushed her teeth.
Her clothes were burned, but she wasn’t.  Items recovered from the Brawley apartment supported the
contention that she’d inflicted her own injuries and scrawled
epithets on her own body. Schoolmates testified that she’d been
at a party during the abduction. A neighbor looking out her
window before the case exploded had called the Dutchess County
sheriff out of concern over a girl crawling into a garbage bag
behind the apartment.  Defamation Lawsuit  Sharpton lost a defamation suit filed by Steven Pagones,
then the assistant district attorney of Dutchess County, who was
accused by the three activists as one of the rapists. With an
extremely heavy burden of proof against a public figure, Pagones
proved the falsity of Brawley’s allegations and Sharpton’s
complicity. Sharpton was ordered to pay $65,000 in damages. He
refused. (The amount was ultimately paid off by  friends of
Sharpton’s  who didn’t want him to be held in contempt.)  Brawley made Sharpton famous, even as the case made race
relations worse. Pagones was beaten down by 10 years of
litigation, lost his wife and three children, and  never got  his
career back on track.  Every time the screen fades from a picture of Martin to
Sharpton, I see a demagogue with kerosene. Yes, Sharpton may now
be a semi-respectable MSNBC host, but he also makes it harder to
hear the pleas of parents telling us that the situation
confronting their young sons is so dangerous that they have to
school them in safe behavior from an early age: Don’t put your
hand in your pocket. Don’t walk too close to a white woman or
her purse. Don’t stay in a store if a salesperson is eyeing you.
And don’t wear a hoodie -- advice that Martin, like millions of
others, did not heed.  Sharpton needs Martin, but Martin’s family doesn’t need
Sharpton. If anything good is to come from the case of Trayvon
Martin, it will be that it forces Americans to see how much more
we need to do to make it safe for a black child in America.
Sharpton doesn’t help us with that. Instead, he gives those who
most need to join this cause a reason not to.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on  China ’s  clean-coal
technology , Ireland’s  economic woes  and  Syria ’s  muddled
opposition . William Pesek on  Japan’s workplace discrimination .
Margaret Carlson on  Trayvon Martin and Al Sharpton . Meghan
O’Sullivan on  Iraq’s economic salvation . Clive Crook on the
writings of a  potential World Bank president.   Peter Orszag  and
 Peter Diamond  on  Mitt Romney’s Social Security plan . And  Simon
Johnson  and  James Kwak  on how the U.S. became  banker to the
world .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 