-- Death Row Inmates Win Ban of Unapproved Execution Drug
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-03-27T19:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/death-row-inmates-win-order-banning-unapproved-anesthesia-1-.html
Twenty-one death row inmates won an
order barring use of sodium thiopental, an imported drug given
as anesthesia prior to administration of lethal injections.  U.S. District Judge Richard Leon in  Washington  today ruled
that the federal Food and Drug Administration violated its own
rules by allowing entry of the drug into the country without
first ensuring its efficacy.  “Prisoners on death row have an unnecessary risk that they
will not be anesthetized properly prior to execution,” Leon
wrote in a 22-page ruling, adding that the agency had created a
“slippery slope” for entry of other unapproved drugs.  In an accompanying two-page order, the judge banned the
import of thiopental, calling it a misbranded and unapproved
drug, and directed  Arizona ,  California ,  Georgia ,  South Carolina 
and  Tennessee  and any others with stocks of the barbiturate to
send them to the FDA.  Attorneys for the inmates had argued that use of the drug
during execution could lead to so-called anesthesia awareness,
in which they may experience suffocation, pain and cardiac
arrest.  The shipments of thiopental entering the U.S. originated
from an Austrian facility owned by Sandoz International GmbH, a
German company, according to the complaint. The drug was shipped
to the U.S. from a London wholesaler, Dream Pharma Ltd., the
inmates said.  Dream Pharma bought the drug from a unit of Archimedes
Pharma Ltd., a closely held company based in Reading, U.K.,
according to the complaint.  Imported Drug  The FDA countered that release of the imported drug within
the U.S. was an act of enforcement discretion, and that
“reviewing substances imported or used for the purpose of
state-authorized lethal injection clearly falls outside of FDA’s
public health role,” according to Leon’s ruling.  The judge heard arguments from both sides on Feb. 9.  Leon said there was no dispute that the FDA hadn’t reviewed
foreign or domestic thiopental for safety and effectiveness.
Because it was unapproved, the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic
Act required the agency to bar its import, he said.  Shelly Burgess, a spokeswoman for the FDA, said she
couldn’t immediately comment on the judge’s decision.  The case is Beaty v.  Food and Drug Administration , 11-cv-
289, U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 