-- Deutsche Bank Says Sell Prompt Brent Oil, Buy Later Futures
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2012-03-27T07:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/deutsche-bank-recommends-investors-sell-brent-oil-timespreads.html
Investors should sell front-month
Brent oil futures and buy later-dated contracts as the price
difference between them may narrow amid speculation governments
will release emergency stockpiles,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  said.  Gains in crude costs have increased speculation that
emergency stockpiles including the Strategic Petroleum Reserve
in the U.S. will be released to depress prices, according to a
note today from  Michael Lewis , an analyst at Deutsche Bank in
 London . The bank recommended the same investment strategy for
U.S. gasoline futures as falling motor-fuel demand in the
country may “send the strength in the gasoline complex to an
abrupt halt,” he said.  Brent for May settlement traded at premium to the October
contract of $3.78 a barrel today, compared with 52 cents on Jan.
25, amid concern that tension between Western nations and Iran
over its nuclear program may curtail supplies. U.S. President
 Barack Obama  and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  discussed
energy supplies without reaching an agreement on releasing
reserves on March 14, according to White House Press Secretary
 Jay Carney .  “In the event of an SPR release, historical price action
tells us that policy makers are likely to be met with the
intended response from the market,” Lewis said in the report.
“History also tells us that the oil curve, specifically Brent,
flattens out following the release of SPR crude.”  Participants in the energy market should also sell front-
month gasoline contracts and buy later-dated contracts amid
signs demand for motor fuel won’t increase, the bank said.
Futures for delivery in April were at a premium of 11.2 cents a
gallon to July supplies today, compared with a discount of 18
cents on Feb. 29, according to data from the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  “Given structural changes in U.S. gasoline-demand dynamics
we’re unlikely to see robust demand-growth rates appear anytime
soon,” Deutsche Bank said.  The bank also raised its 2012 forecast for European
benchmark Brent to an average of $117 a barrel from $115, citing
the potential for supply disruptions and tightening spare
capacity among the members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  