-- Dewey Law Firm Adds Four Partners to Chairman’s Office
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-03-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/dewey-law-firm-adds-four-partners-to-chairman-s-office-1-.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP (1151L) , the New York-
based  law firm  that lost its insurance group to other firms this
month, is creating a new chairman’s office with five co-equal
members, including the heads of its most profitable groups,
according to a letter to the partners obtained by Bloomberg
News.  The new members include the heads of its bankruptcy,
corporate, litigation and public policy practice groups,
according to the letter, which also provides current revenue
data. Current Chairman Steven Davis, who will relocate to
 London , will be joined in the chairman’s office by  Martin Bienenstock , who runs the firm’s restructuring group; Rich
Shutran, head of the corporate department;  Jeffrey Kessler , head
of litigation; and Charles Landgraf, who runs the the Washington
office and the legislative and public policy group, according to
the letter.  The new management team is being set up after “internal
requests for more hands-on management,” Shutran said in a phone
interview yesterday. Once voted in, the new structure will also
send a message to clients that the heads of the most profitable
practices are committed to the firm’s future, he said.  “We’re responding to a general sentiment that we should be
more involved in the executive management of the firm,” he
said.  “On insurance, we’re confident that the group’s departure
has no impact on our firm’s profitability,” Shutran said.
“That group was break-even at best.”  Dewey earned about $250 million last year, Shutran said.  Revenue for the first two months of this year rose 28
percent from a year earlier, and so called billable value
increased 13 percent, according to the letter. Revenue for the
12 months through Feb. 29 grew 6 percent with an increase in
billable value of 9.7 percent, according to the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  