-- Euro Strengthens on Optimism of Debt Crisis End; Krona Cl
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-03-28T14:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/dollar-holds-gain-versus-yen-before-durable-goods-report.html
The euro gained versus the majority
of its most-traded peers as European leaders signaled rising
confidence that the region’s debt crisis is close to an end.  The 17-nation currency pared a gain to almost a one-month
high against the dollar after a report showed U.S. factory
orders trailed forecasts, damping demand for riskier assets. The
euro advanced earlier as regional finance ministers prepared to
meet in two days to weigh increasing the total capacity of
 Europe ’s bailout fund. The yen strengthened amid speculation
Japanese companies will repatriate overseas earnings before the
end of the fiscal year on March 31. Sweden’s krona rose on data
showing  consumer confidence  improved.  “The euro has been pretty resilient,” said Eric Viloria,
senior currency strategist for Gain Capital Group LLC in New
York. “The market is focusing on the European finance ministers
meeting later this week with the potential for an increased
firewall.”  The euro advanced 0.5 percent against the pound at 83.86
pence at 10:20 a.m. New York time. It was little changed against
the dollar at $1.3302. The yen gained 0.1 percent to 83.09 per
dollar.  2012 View  The euro has risen 0.6 percent this year according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar has depreciated 2.3
percent, while the yen has fallen 10.4 percent, the worst two
performances. The  New Zealand dollar , up 3.2 percent, and
 Norway ’s krone, up 2.2 percent, are the best performers in 2012.  Iceland’s krona and the Argentine peso are the biggest
losers against the dollar this year among 25 emerging market
currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The krona
has lost 3.5 percent and the peso has fallen 1.7 percent. The
Hungarian forint and Polish zloty have strengthened the most
against the U.S. currency, adding 10.4 and 10.2 percent,
respectively.  The South African rand was the worst performer against the
dollar today, falling 1 percent to 7.6758 per dollar, after
commodities fell on signs of slowing demand from China. China’s
copper demand based on trade data climbed 26 percent in January
and February from a year earlier, down from 30 percent growth in
December.  China Policy  “We are seeing ongoing concerns out of  China ,” Gain
Capital’s Viloria said. “China is slowing down it is just a
matter of if it is going to be a hard landing or a soft one.”  Sweden’s krona advanced against all its major peers, rising
0.3 percent to 6.6709 per dollar.  The nation’s consumer confidence index rose to zero from
minus 3.2 the previous month, the Stockholm-based National
Institute of  Economic Research  said today. Economists predicted
a reading of minus 2, according to the median of 14 forecasts in
a Bloomberg survey.  The euro was bolstered by speculation officials will
discuss combining the temporary European Financial Stability
Facility and its permanent successor from July, the European
Stability Mechanism, at this week’s meeting in Copenhagen.
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said two days ago her country
may back plans for the funds to run in parallel. Italian,
Portuguese and Spanish 10-year government bonds rose.  Euro Holding  “For the moment, the market is happy to hold the euro at
relatively high levels on the basis that there’s not going to be
an absolute financial crisis emanating from Europe,” said Derek Mumford, a director in Sydney at Rochford Capital, a currency
risk management company. “Perhaps patience over the coming
month will be tested.”  Implied volatility for three-month euro-dollar options,
which indicates expected swings in the underlying currencies,
fell to as low as 9.74 percent, the least since August 2008.  The yen strengthened amid speculation Japanese companies
will repatriate overseas earnings before the end of the fiscal
year on March 31.  “The yen move is driven by supply and demand before the
final exchange-rate fixing of the fiscal year,” said Michiyoshi Kato, senior vice president of foreign-currency sales in  Tokyo 
at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd., a unit of  Japan ’s second-largest
bank by assets. “While there haven’t been a whole lot of orders
from Japanese exporters to sell the dollar into the end of
March, I think we’ll start to see some rise in demand to buy the
yen.”  Economic Data  Bookings for U.S. durable goods, meant to last at least
three years, advanced 2.2 percent, less than projected, after a
revised 3.6 percent decline the prior month, data from the
Commerce Department showed today in  Washington . Economists
forecast a 3 percent gain, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “The euro has come down after the U.S. durable goods
orders and  market sentiment  appeared to change,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate currency sales desk in
 New York  at Societe Generale SA. “The euro is at the high end
of its recent range and has had a lot of difficulty sustaining
any upward move during its recent crisis and in the aftermath.
It could head a little lower, but not much as I see some good
support at $1.3173 up through $1.3238.”  Britain’s pound fell after a report showed the economy
shrank more than first estimated in the fourth quarter,
strengthening the case for the central bank to maintain asset
purchases. U.K. gross domestic product dropped 0.3 percent from
the previous three months, compared with an earlier estimate of
0.2 percent, data showed today.  Bank of England  Governor Mervyn
King said yesterday he has an open mind on whether more monetary
stimulus, or quantitative easing, is needed.  Sterling depreciated 0.6 percent to $1.5861.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  