-- Dudley Doesn’t See New Fed Buffers for U.S. Against Europe
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-03-27T17:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/dudley-doesn-t-see-more-fed-efforts-to-buffer-u-s-from-europe.html
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President  William Dudley  said  Europe  has made significant
progress in fiscal cutbacks and he doesn’t expect more Fed
efforts to insulate the U.S. from the region’s debt crisis.  “While difficult work still lies ahead, countries in the
euro area have made meaningful progress toward achieving long-
term fiscal sustainability,” Dudley said in testimony today at
a House Financial Services subcommittee hearing. “I do not
anticipate further efforts by the Federal Reserve to address the
potential spillover effects of Europe on the United States.”  Former European Central Bank Governing Council member Axel Weber said yesterday financial institutions shouldn’t count on
additional three-year loans following more than 1 trillion euros
($1.3 trillion) in two long-term refinancing operations
beginning in December. Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  warned
that  Spain  may reignite the debt crisis, while Portugal bond
yields are at levels suggesting traders expect another bailout.  “If economic conditions in Europe were to weaken
significantly, demand for U.S. exports would decrease,” Dudley
said. “This would hurt domestic growth and have a negative
impact on U.S. jobs,” he said.  Financial deterioration in Europe could put pressure on the
U.S. banking system, harm capital and liquidity buffers and
impair the flow of credit to households and businesses, he said.  Credible Backstop  Dudley said it’s in the U.S. interest to ensure U.S. banks
have access to U.S.-dollar funding and that swaps should create
a credible backstop, rather than supplement private markets.  Dudley also said the central bank holds a very small amount
of European sovereign debt and that he sees a “high bar” to
additional purchases.  The standard for buying more European sovereign debt “is
extraordinarily high for the U.S., for the  Federal Reserve , to
actually go out and buy foreign sovereign debt for its own
portfolio, apart from the very small foreign exchange holdings
that we have,” Dudley said.  Further, Dudley said the Fed’s international dollar-swap
program has accomplished its desired goal of helping to maintain
the flow of credit to U.S. households and businesses.
Representative  Ron Paul , a Republican from  Texas , said the Fed’s
swaps program is being used to “prop up a system that’s not
viable.”  Crisis Hurt Economy  Dudley testified along with Steven Kamin, the director of
international finance at the Fed’s Board of Governors in
Washington, who said the European debt crisis has already hurt
the  U.S. economy .  “The financial stresses in Europe have undoubtedly spilled
over to the  United States  by restraining our exports, weighing
on business and consumer confidence, and adding to pressures on
U.S. financial markets and institutions,” Kamin said.  “Strains have eased somewhat of late,” although further
“disruptions” may harm the U.S., said Kamin, who is one of the
three Board of Governors officials who brief the Fed’s Open
Market Committee on  interest rates  and economic developments.  “Although the breadth and size of all of these effects on
the U.S. economy are difficult to gauge, it is clear that the
situation in Europe poses a significant risk to U.S. economic
activity and bears close watching,” Kamin said.  Dudley said the U.S. economy is “ expanding at a moderate
pace, and strains in global financial markets, although having
eased recently, continue to pose significant downside risks to
the economic outlook.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  