-- Health Law Centerpiece at Risk as High Court Hears Core Argument
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   L a u r i e   A s s e o
-- 2012-03-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/health-law-centerpiece-at-risk-as-high-court-hears-core-argument.html
The Obama administration today will
defend a requirement that Americans obtain insurance or pay a
penalty -- the core of the president’s health care overhaul --in
a Supreme Court case central to the Republican campaign to take
over the White House.  A group of 26 states will say that Congress exceeded its
authority in approving the mandate, as the justices hear their
second of three days of arguments. The government, defending the
president’s signature legislative victory, will contend that
Congress can require people to buy insurance under its
constitutional power to regulate the interstate health-care
market.  During yesterday’s opening session, several justices
suggested they will reject an argument that they can’t consider
the case until the penalty is imposed in 2015.  Today, justices may signal whether they’re willing to
overturn the insurance requirement or other parts of the law,
which would extend coverage to 32 million people and revamp an
industry that accounts for 18 percent of the  U.S. economy .  The last time the court rejected a measure with such
sweeping impact was when it voided parts of  Franklin D. Roosevelt ’s New Deal, the package of economic programs in the
1930s passed in response to the Great Depression.  If the court throws out Obama’s insurance mandate, that
“would constitute the most significant federalism ruling since
the 1930s,” said Daniel Conkle, a constitutional law professor
at  Indiana University ’s Maurer School of Law in Bloomington.  Campaign Issue  The justices probably will issue a ruling by late June,
less than five months before the election.  Obama’s Republican challengers all oppose the measure and
say they want to undo it. Former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  appeared outside the court yesterday and attacked  Mitt Romney , who signed a similar state law when he was governor of
 Massachusetts . Romney is the “worst person” to debate the
health law with Obama, Santorum said.  Americans for Prosperity, a Tea Party-affiliated group
opposed to the law, plans a rally near the court today. Protests
in Washington on both sides began during the weekend.  Yesterday’s opening arguments were on a question that could
derail the case: whether the penalty for failing to get
insurance amounts to a tax. An 1867 law blocks lawsuits over
taxes that haven’t been imposed.  Ready to Rule  Justices including  Stephen Breyer  and  Ruth Bader Ginsburg 
suggested they didn’t view an 1867 law as barring them from
ruling this year. Ginsburg questioned whether health-care
penalties would be taxes.  “This is not a revenue-raising measure,” Ginsburg said.
“If it’s successful, nobody will pay the penalty and there will
be no revenue to raise.”  The six hours of arguments spread over three days are the
most the court has heard in a case in 44 years.  Tomorrow, the last day, the justices will consider what
should happen to the rest of the law if they invalidate the
insurance requirement. The court also will take up whether the
law, by expanding the Medicaid program, unconstitutionally
coerces states into spending more on health care for the poor.  The fate of the insurance requirement will turn partly on
the court’s interpretation of the constitutional provision that
lets Congress regulate interstate commerce. Justices’ opinions
in previous cases only hint at how they may apply it to the
insurance requirement.  Swing Votes  The justice who most often occupies the court’s ideological
middle ground,  Anthony Kennedy , has signed opinions pointing in
both directions on the commerce clause. Kennedy and three other
Republican appointees -- Chief Justice  John Roberts  and Justices
Antonin Scalia and  Samuel Alito  -- are potentially in play,
based on their past opinions.  The government says that every American is already part of
the interstate market for health-care and that the mandate
requires them to get coverage to pay for treatment they’ll
eventually need. The challengers say Americans who fail to buy
insurance can’t be regulated because they aren’t engaged in
commerce.  “I’m sitting at home in my living room,” said Michael
Carvin, the lawyer who will argue on behalf of a business trade
group, at a debate last month in  Washington  sponsored by
Bloomberg Law and Scotusblog, which covers the court. “I’m not
buying insurance. I’m not engaged in commerce -- local,
intrastate, interstate. So how can they force me to enter into
the stream of commerce?”  Forced Buying  The challengers say Congress has never before required
people to purchase something.  Upholding the mandate, opponents say, would mean Congress
could force consumers to buy any product for the sake of
stimulating the economy. Instead of providing cash incentives to
buy new cars and boost the  auto industry , as the government did
in 2009, Congress could have required everyone above a certain
income level to buy a new car, says  Paul Clement , the Washington
lawyer who will argue on behalf of the 26 states.  That would have been a “much more direct way to accomplish
that objective,” Clement said.  The Obama administration and its allies say the auto and
health-care industries aren’t the same. Uninsured people
consumed $118 billion in health-care services in 2008 and paid
only 37 percent of those costs, the administration says. Those
costs are passed from care providers to insurers to
policyholders, ultimately increasing the average premium for
insured families by $1,000 a year, the government says.  ‘Really Different’  “The automobile industry is really different,” said  Neal Katyal , formerly Obama’s acting solicitor general, who argued
for the administration on health care at the lower court level.
“That’s not a situation in which you can show up at the car
lot, drive off with the car and stick your bill to your
neighbor. That’s what’s going on in the health-insurance
market.”  The government also says the individual mandate will keep
policy premiums in check by giving insurers millions of new,
low-cost customers. Otherwise, prices would soar because the law
also requires insurers to accept applicants with preexisting
conditions and charge them the same rates as other
policyholders, the government says.  In addition to the commerce power, the federal government
points to a constitutional provision that lets Congress enact
laws “necessary and proper” for carrying out its authority as
explicitly listed in the Constitution.  Medical Marijuana Precedent  The court has used that clause before. In 2005, Scalia
relied on the necessary-and-proper clause when he voted to allow
federal prosecution of people who use locally grown marijuana
for medicinal purposes. Five other justices reached a similar
conclusion, while focusing more on the commerce clause.  The administration will be represented today by its top
Supreme Court lawyer, U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli. He
will also argue that Congress’s constitutional power to impose
taxes creates an independent source of authority for the mandate
and penalty. No lower court judge has endorsed that argument.  Of the four federal appeals courts to rule, two upheld the
law, one declared the mandate unconstitutional and the fourth
said the Anti-Injunction Act made a judicial review premature.  The issues surrounding the mandate go to “the first
principles of our constitutional experiment,” said Rick
Garnett, a constitutional law professor at Notre Dame Law School
in  South Bend ,  Indiana . “Even if the justices uphold the
health-insurance mandate, look for them to remind us that the
boundaries on federal regulatory authority remain, and matter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  