-- Health Law Faces Questions From Skeptical Supreme Court Justices
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-03-27T20:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/health-law-faces-questions-from-skeptical-supreme-court-justices.html
U.S. Supreme Court justices hinted
they may strike down a requirement that Americans obtain
insurance on their second day hearing arguments over President
Barack Obama’s health-care law. Questions from justices
indicated they might split 5-4 with the court’s five Republican
appointees joining together to oppose the measure.  Today’s main issue was whether Congress has the power to
enact a law that requires people obtain health insurance, under
the clause of the Constitution that allows it to regulate
interstate commerce or possibly other provisions.  Here’s a sample of comments from eight of the nine justices
today. Justice  Clarence Thomas  asked no questions, as is his
practice.  Anthony Kennedy:  “The government is saying that the federal government has
a duty to tell the individual citizen that it must act. And that
is different from what we have in previous cases, and that
changes the relationship of the federal government to the
individual in the very fundamental way.”  Stephen Breyer:  “If we look back into history, we see sometimes Congress
can create commerce out of nothing. That’s the national bank,
which was created out of nothing to create other commerce out of
nothing. I look back into history, and I see it seems pretty
clear that if there are substantial effects on interstate
commerce, Congress can act.”  Samuel Alito:  “Congress can force people to purchase a product where the
failure to purchase the product has a substantial effect on
interstate commerce, if what? If this is part of a larger
regulatory scheme? Was that it? Was there anything more?”  Ruth Bader Ginsburg:  “People who don’t participate in this market are making it
much more expensive for the people who do; that is, they will
get, a good number of them will get services that they can’t
afford at the point where they need them, and the result is that
everybody else’s premiums get raised? It’s not your free choice
just to do something for yourself. What you do is going to
affect others, affect them in a major way.”  Elena Kagan:  “All these uninsured people are increasing the normal
family premium, Congress says, by a thousand dollars a year.
Those people are in commerce. They are making decisions that are
affecting the price that everybody pays for this service.  John Roberts:  ‘‘Can the government require you to buy a cell phone
because that would facilitate responding when you need  emergency
services ?’’  Antonin Scalia:  ‘‘The federal government is not supposed to be a government
that has all powers; it’s supposed to be a government of limited
powers. And that’s what all this questioning has been about.
What is left? If the government can do this, what else can it
not do?”  Sonia Sotomayor:  “There is government compulsion in almost every economic
decision because the government regulates so much. It’s a
condition of life that some may rail against, but.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  