-- Health-Care Law, Goldman, Facebook, JPMorgan in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-03-27T12:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/health-care-law-goldman-deutsche-bank-jpmorgan-in-court-news.html
The Obama administration today will
defend a requirement that Americans obtain insurance or pay a
penalty -- the core of the president’s health care overhaul --in
a  Supreme Court  case central to the Republican campaign to take
over the White House.  A group of 26 states will say that Congress exceeded its
authority in approving the mandate, as the justices hear their
second of three days of arguments. The government, defending the
president’s signature legislative victory, will contend that
Congress can require people to buy insurance under its
constitutional power to regulate the interstate health-care
market.  During yesterday’s opening session, several justices
suggested they will reject an argument that they can’t consider
the case until the penalty is imposed in 2015.  Today, justices may signal whether they’re willing to
overturn the insurance requirement or other parts of the law,
which would extend coverage to 32 million people and revamp an
industry that accounts for 18 percent of the U.S. economy.  The last time the court rejected a measure with such
sweeping impact was when it voided parts of Franklin D.
Roosevelt’s New Deal, the package of economic programs in the
1930s passed in response to the Great Depression.  If the court throws out Obama’s insurance mandate, that
“would constitute the most significant federalism ruling since
the 1930s,” said Daniel Conkle, a constitutional law professor
at Indiana University’s Maurer School of Law in Bloomington.  The justices probably will issue a ruling by late June,
less than five months before the election.  Yesterday’s opening arguments were on a question that could
derail the case: whether the penalty for failing to get
insurance amounts to a tax. An 1867 law blocks lawsuits over
taxes that haven’t been imposed.  Justices including Stephen Breyer and Ruth Bader Ginsburg
suggested they didn’t view an 1867 law as barring them from
ruling this year. Ginsburg questioned whether health-care
penalties would be taxes.  “This is not a revenue-raising measure,” Ginsburg said.
“If it’s successful, nobody will pay the penalty and there will
be no revenue to raise.”  The six hours of arguments spread over three days are the
most the court has heard in a case in 44 years.  Tomorrow, the last day, the justices will consider what
should happen to the rest of the law if they invalidate the
insurance requirement. The court also will take up whether the
law, by expanding the Medicaid program, unconstitutionally
coerces states into spending more on health care for the poor.  The fate of the insurance requirement will turn partly on
the court’s interpretation of the constitutional provision that
lets Congress regulate interstate commerce. Justices’ opinions
in previous cases only hint at how they may apply it to the
insurance requirement.  The health-care cases are National Federation of
Independent Business v. Sebelius, 11-393; Department of Health
and Human Services v. Florida, 11-398; and Florida v. Department
of Health and Human Services, 11-400.  For more, click here.  Investment Bank Dispute Ordered Reconsidered by High Court  The  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  told a lower court to reconsider
deadlines for some securities lawsuits, in a dispute about
whether investment banks must face accusations that they
manipulated dozens of initial public offerings.  The 8-0 ruling yesterday is a partial victory for seven
Wall Street firms, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , whose units were among the defendants in the case.  The ruling ordered lower courts to reconsider how long an
investor can wait before filing lawsuits seeking to hold
underwriters and corporate insiders accountable for “short
swing” trades, those involving stock held for less than six
months. Under federal securities law, insiders with large enough
holdings must give back any profits from short-swing trades.  The high court overturned part of a decision by the 9th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which said a two-year time limit
for lawsuits over short-swing profits doesn’t begin until
corporate insiders disclose the transactions in regulatory
filings.  The justices split 4-4 on whether the law permits any
extension of the deadline beyond two years after the stock-sale
profits are realized. Chief Justice John Roberts didn’t
participate in the case. The tie vote on that part of the case
leaves intact the portion of the lower court decision that
permits extensions of the deadline under some circumstances.  The justices, in an opinion written by Justice Antonin
Scalia, sent the case back for further proceedings to determine
what those circumstances may be, under rules that permit
extensions of a statute of limitations in situations where a
defendant has fraudulently concealed wrongdoing.  The justices told a federal appeals court to consider
whether shareholder Vanessa Simmonds had enough information
about the alleged wrongdoing that she should have filed suit
sooner.  Investment banks had urged a firm two-year limit starting
when stock-sale profits are realized, while Simmonds’s attorneys
contended the two-year clock shouldn’t begin running until the
insiders filed the disclosure forms.  The case is Credit Suisse v. Simmonds, 10-1261, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  S&P Can’t Blame Global Crisis for Notes’ Collapse, Lawyer Says  Standard & Poor’s can’t blame the 2008 global financial
crisis for the collapse of notes it recommended because it rated
the debt as a long-term investment, said a lawyer for an
Australian financial adviser.  Local Government Financial Services Ltd.  sued S&P in
Federal Court in Sydney, accusing the company of breach of duty
and negligence in giving the notes the highest investment
rating. LGFS filed the lawsuit after it was sued by a dozen
Australian towns that lost more than 90 percent of their
investment.  S&P may face potentially unlimited, or so-called
indeterminable, claims if it’s found liable for its ratings, the
New York-based unit of  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  said in written
submissions that it’s scheduled to present to the court this
week. S&P blamed the global financial crisis, when credit
markets froze following the 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., for the notes’ collapse.  “To say adverse economic conditions, even very adverse
economic conditions” could be blamed for the collapse of a AAA-
rated 10-year investment is “totally unreal,” Guy Parker,
LGFS’s lawyer said in his closing statement yesterday before
Justice Jayne Jagot.  LGFS and the Australian townships also sued ABN Amro Bank
NV, which became the Australian affiliate of the  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , and manufactured the investments, according
to Parker. ABN Amro Bank in turn sued S&P, saying the ratings
company failed to rate the notes “well and competently.”  The case is: Bathurst Regional Council v. Local Government
Financial Services Ltd. NSD936/2009. Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Strauss-Kahn Charged in France With Prostitute Procurement  Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the former head of the
 International Monetary Fund , was charged by three investigating
judges in the northern French city of Lille with procurement in
a prostitution ring, prosecutors said.  The charge stems from an investigation into a prostitution
ring linked to the Carlton hotel in Lille. Investigators
uncovered evidence women had been hired to travel as far as
Washington to have sex with the then-chief of the IMF.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, turned himself in Feb. 21 and was held
overnight to answer questions as investigators sought to
determine whether he knew the women were prostitutes, or how
they were paid. French builder  Eiffage SA (FGR)  filed a complaint for
embezzlement after an internal probe found an employee spent as
much as 50,000 euros ($66,790) to pay for prostitutes for
Strauss-Kahn.  “The three investigating judges in Lille in charge of the
so-called Carlton affair have charged Mr. Dominique Strauss-Kahn
with aggravated organized procurement of prostitutes,”
prosecutors said last night in a statement.  The charges followed a closed-door meeting yesterday
between Strauss-Kahn and judges. Prosecutors said Strauss-Kahn
was ordered not to contact other people involved in the case,
including the eight other people charged in the case, witnesses
and the press, according to the statement. He was released on a
100,000 euro bond.  Paying for sex is legal in France, while procuring
prostitutes for someone else isn’t. Under the French penal code,
procurement in the context of a prostitution ring can be
punished by as much as 20 years in jail and 3 million euros.  Strauss-Kahn “declared with the greatest firmness that he
is not guilty of any of these deeds and never had the least
awareness that the women he met could have been prostitutes,”
Richard Malka, one of his lawyers, said last night upon leaving
the judges’ offices in Lille. His lawyers will hold a press
conference today in Paris.  The former IMF managing director gave up his post last year
after being arrested in  New York  on charges he sexually
assaulted a hotel maid. Local prosecutors dropped that case
because of concerns about his accuser’s credibility and Strauss-
Kahn returned to France, where he faced a separate accusation of
attempted rape, which was also dropped.  The New York case is Diallo v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-307065, New
York State Supreme Court (Bronx County).  Oppenheimer Fund Solicitation Challenged in Investor Lawsuit  An  Oppenheimer Holdings Inc. (OPY)  fund was sued by a
Massachusetts municipal pension plan that alleges its investment
was solicited with “materially untrue and misleading
statements.”  The Brockton Retirement Board, which manages the
southeastern Massachusetts city’s employee pension plan,
yesterday sued Oppenheimer Global Resource Private Equity Fund I
LP, sponsor Oppenheimer Asset Management Inc., the fund’s
administrator, its general partner and two executives in federal
court in Boston.  The Oppenheimer solicitation allegedly overstated the value
of holdings in the Global Resource Private Equity Fund,
described in a private placement memorandum as a fund of funds
intending to invest in natural resource-related companies.  “As a result of defendants’ misleading statements,
plaintiff and other members of the class have suffered
significant damages,” the pension plan said in a complaint
filed on behalf of other investors who bought into the fund
based on the same solicitations. Requiring minimum investments
of $500,000 for “Class A” units and $5 million for “Class B”
units, the fund raised $85 million from April 2008 to April
2010, according to the complaint. Total investment, it said, was
$140 million.  The Brockton plan invested $5 million, $3.2 million of
which has been drawn upon in capital calls by the fund’s general
partner, according to the complaint.  Brian Maddox of FT Consulting, a spokesman for Oppenheimer,
said the firm hasn’t seen the complaint yet and had no comment.  The case is Brockton Retirement Board v. Oppenheimer Global
Resource Private Equity Fund I LP., 12-cv=10552, U.S. District
Court for Massachusetts (Boston).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Facebook Asks to Dismiss Suit, Says Ceglia Aims to Disrupt IPO  Facebook Inc. (FB)  asked a court to dismiss a claim by  Paul
Ceglia  for a part of the company, saying he  forged the 2003
contract his case is based on, fabricated e-mails and destroyed
evidence of his alleged fraud.  Facebook, which operates the world’s biggest social-
networking site, also asked to the court to block Ceglia from
seeking evidence from its chief executive officer and cofounder,
 Mark Zuckerberg , including about 285 messages from Zuckerberg’s
Harvard University e-mail account and computers he used as a
student.  Ceglia hopes to use the litigation to “leverage his fraud
by disrupting Facebook’s highly publicized initial public
offering,” the company said in its court papers. Facebook filed
last month for a planned IPO.  “This entire lawsuit is a fraud and a lie,” Facebook
said, arguing that the case should be thrown out
“immediately.”  Ceglia’s lawyers said in a statement yesterday that a jury
should be permitted to consider evidence from Ceglia’s experts
that his contract is genuine.  “Mr. Ceglia deserves his day in court, where the jury will
resolve this dispute over the ownership of Facebook,” Ceglia’s
lawyers said.  Ceglia sued Facebook and Zuckerberg in 2010, claiming he
gave Zuckerberg money to develop his idea for Facebook in
exchange for a half-interest in the social network. Ceglia
claims he’s now entitled to half of Zuckerberg’s Facebook
holdings.  Facebook yesterday produced about a dozen e-mails that
hadn’t been disclosed publicly, seeking to bolster its defense
against Ceglia’s claim. Those e-mails, along with three the
company disclosed in court papers last year, show Zuckerberg
continually demanding money he said Ceglia owed him. Facebook
said it has recovered about 300 e-mails between Zuckerberg and
people who worked for StreetFax, including Ceglia.  Ceglia’s lawyers have said they want access to Zuckerberg’s
computers from the time of Facebook’s founding.  Both sides agree Ceglia hired Zuckerberg in 2003 to work on
StreetFax, an Internet business Ceglia was starting to sell
pictures of street intersections to insurance companies.  Facebook claims the true contract between Ceglia and
Zuckerberg referred only to the StreetFax work and didn’t
mention Facebook, which Zuckerberg started in 2004. The company,
based in Menlo Park, California, attached a copy of the contract
to the papers it filed yesterday. Facebook said it found the
document on one of Ceglia’s computers,  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  Madoff Feeder Fund’s Liquidators Drop Ernst & Young Lawsuit  The liquidators of M-Invest Ltd., a so-called feeder fund
for  Bernard Madoff ’s bankrupt investment firm, dropped a lawsuit
accusing Ernst & Young LLP of negligence, malpractice and breach
of contract.  The liquidators said in documents filed in New York State
Supreme Court in December that they were suing the New York-
based accounting firm over audits of M-Invest’s annual financial
statements from 2003 to 2007 and seeking $900 million in
damages. Ernst & Young said the suit was without merit.  The plaintiffs discontinued the action, according to a
court document filed March 23. No reason was given. Scott M.
Berman, an attorney for the liquidators, and  Charlie Perkins , a
spokesman for Ernst & Young, declined to comment on the filing
in a telephone interview.  Union Bancaire Privee, a private Swiss bank that set up M-
Invest, a Cayman Islands corporation, to invest money with
Madoff, agreed to pay as much as $500 million in December 2010
to settle claims by  Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating
Madoff’s firm.  The agreement ended claims against Union Bancaire, which
was accused of accused of profiting from Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.
Union Bancaire and M-Invest didn’t admit any liability,
according to the agreement.  Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal
prison in North Carolina after admitting to directing the
biggest Ponzi scheme in history. The Securities Investor
Protection Corp. has said that investors in so-called feeder
funds aren’t customers of Madoff’s firm and can’t make claims on
the estate of the bankrupt brokerage.  The case is M-Invest Ltd. v. Ernst & Young LLP,
653353/2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Deutsche Bank to Pay $32.5 Million to Settle Mortgage Suit  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest lender, agreed to pay
$32.5 million to settle claims in U.S. litigation that it lied
about the quality of home loans underlying securities it sold.  The investors that sued, including the Massachusetts
Bricklayers and Masons Trust Funds, filed a motion for
preliminary approval of the settlement in federal court in
Central Islip, New York, yesterday.  “The proposed settlement will provide a substantial
monetary benefit to the settlement class,” lawyers for the
plaintiffs wrote in the filing. U.S. District Judge Leonard D.
Wexler must approve the deal.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that, once burst, helped push the
U.S. into the biggest recession since the 1930s. The market for
mortgage-backed securities peaked at $2.3 trillion in 2007.
Investors have filed class-action, or group, lawsuits against at
least 16 private issuers of securities backed by mortgages.  The banks have argued the housing collapse, rather than any
misrepresentation on their part, caused investor losses.  “We are pleased to have resolved this matter,”  Renee
Calabro , a spokeswoman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, said
in a telephone interview.  The case is Massachusetts Bricklayers and Masons Trust
Funds v. Deutsche Alt-A Securities Inc., 08-cv-3178, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Central Islip).  For more, click here.  JPMorgan Wins Case Against Trader Over Decimal Point Dispute  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  doesn’t have to pay a trader 580,000
pounds ($921,000) after a missing decimal point in an employment
contract led him to believe his salary would be 10 times what
was offered, a London court ruled.  Kai Herbert, a Switzerland-based currency trader, sued
JPMorgan for lost earnings claiming he signed a contract to
relocate to Johannesburg for a salary of 24 million rand ($3.1
million). JPMorgan said there was a typographical error and the
figure should have been 2.4 million rand.  “Herbert took the commercial risk of accepting the offer,
knowing full well that the figure was an error,” Judge Henry
Globe said in yesterday’s judgment.  The trader resigned from  UBS AG (UBSN)  in June 2010 following the
offer from New York-based JPMorgan to relocate to South Africa.
Herbert didn’t report for work after discovering the discrepancy
and JPMorgan rescinded the employment offer in December 2010.  Herbert has been unemployed since, other than eight months
at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , where he was fired in a round of job
cuts in November. Banks globally have cut about 196,000 jobs
since the start of 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Kate Haywood , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan declined to
comment. Dale Langley, Herbert’s lawyer, wasn’t immediately
available to comment.  The case is Herbert v. JPMorgan, High Court of Justice
Queen’s Bench Division, HQ11X02595.  For more, click here.  R.J. Reynolds Loses Bid to Fight Smoker’s Verdict in High Court  The U.S. Supreme Court won’t review a $28.3 million
wrongful death verdict against R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.,
declining to consider legal questions that may affect thousands
of similar cases by smokers and their families.  The court yesterday left intact the verdict in a case filed
in the wake of a 2006 Florida Supreme Court decision that lets
plaintiffs in cigarette-liability suits use factual findings by
a jury in an earlier case to prove their claims. Reynolds,
 Altria Group Inc. (MO)  and other U.S. cigarette makers claim Florida
trial judges are applying the findings too broadly, depriving
them of their right to defend themselves in court.  “The Florida state courts are engaged in serial due-
process violations that threaten the defendants with literally
billions of dollars of liability,” Reynolds said in a brief
seeking review by the U.S. Supreme Court.  In its 2006 ruling, Florida’s highest court decertified a
statewide class action and threw out a $145 billion punitive
damage verdict against the industry. At the same time, the court
endorsed many jury findings in the case, including that the
companies were negligent, conspired to hide information about
the dangers of smoking and sold defective products.  The ruling is known as the Engle decision, after  Howard
Engle , the lead plaintiff in the case filed in 1994 on behalf of
Florida smokers addicted to nicotine who developed cancer, heart
disease and other illnesses. Engle, a Florida pediatrician, died
in 2009.  Reynolds asked the U.S. Supreme Court to review a case in
which a Pensacola jury in 2009 awarded $3.3 million in
compensatory damages and $25 million in punitive damages to
Mathilde Martin, whose husband, Benny, died of lung cancer at
age 66 after smoking Camel and Lucky Strike cigarettes for most
of his life. An intermediate Florida appeals court upheld the
verdict and the state Supreme Court declined to hear the case.  The case is R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. v. Martin, 11-741,
U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  Biomet to Pay $22.9 Million to Settle U.S. Bribery Claims  Biomet Inc., (BMET)  a closely held maker of medical devices,
agreed to pay $22.9 million to settle U.S. accusations that it
bribed foreign doctors to win business, the government said.  Biomet, based in Warsaw, Indiana, will pay a $17.3 million
criminal fine to the U.S. Justice Department and $5.6 million to
the Securities and Exchange Commission, the SEC said yesterday
in a statement.  The SEC sued Biomet under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
yesterday in federal court in Washington. The regulator alleged
the company and four of its subsidiaries from 2000 to 2008 paid
bribes to doctors in Argentina, Brazil and China.  Biomet cooperated with the government probes and conducted
its own internal investigation, the company said in an e-mailed
statement.  “Moving forward, we intend to continue to adhere to our
enhanced global compliance procedures, and to promote the
company’s commitment to the highest ethical standards in all the
markets that we serve,” Jeffrey Binder, Biomet’s president and
chief executive officer, said in a statement.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Biomet Inc., 12-00454, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  Clearwater’s Edwards Loses Loan Conversion Lawsuit Against ANZ  Jason Edwards, the chief lawyer at Clearwater Capital
Partners LLC, lost a lawsuit against  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in which he claimed the lender had unfairly
converted his multicurrency loan.  “Edwards is a lawyer who works in the finance industry,
who took out a mortgage loan with ANZ on terms he agreed to and
who knew what he was getting into,” Singapore High Court
Justice Tay Yong Kwang wrote in a  ruling  made public yesterday.  Edwards sued the Australian lender in 2010 after the value
of the loan rose 47 percent to $4.2 million because his U.S.
currency and Japanese yen debt were converted to the Australian
dollar, according to his complaint. The yen and the U.S. dollar
were the worst performers against the Aussie among 16 major
currencies in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This case, at its simplest, is one of a borrower who took
out a loan to buy properties and to invest and now refuses or is
unable to pay back,” Tay wrote in his 57-page ruling. “It is
not in dispute that Edwards is a financially astute and
sophisticated customer.”  Edwards, the general counsel of Clearwater which invests in
Asian distressed assets, obtained the loan in 2006 to refinance
his property in Australia’s Queensland state, according to court
documents. The interest on Australian dollar loans was higher
than the rate on U.S. dollar- or yen-denominated debt, according
to the suit.  Melbourne-based ANZ had said it was within its rights to
convert the currency according to the loan contract and had
informed Edwards.  The case is Jason Glenn Edwards v. Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd., S489/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Dewey Law Firm Adds Four Partners to Chairman’s Office  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP (1151L) , the New York-based law firm that lost
its insurance group to other firms this month, is creating a new
chairman’s office with five coequal members, including the heads
of its most profitable groups, according to a letter to the
partners obtained by Bloomberg News.  The new members include the heads of its bankruptcy,
corporate, litigation and public policy practice groups,
according to the letter, which also provides current revenue
data. Current Chairman Steven Davis, who will relocate to
London, will be joined in the chairman’s office by  Martin
Bienenstock , who runs the firm’s restructuring group; Rich
Shutran, head of the corporate department;  Jeffrey Kessler , head
of litigation; and Charles Landgraf, who runs the the Washington
office and the legislative and public policy group, according to
the letter.  The new management team is being set up after “internal
requests for more hands-on management,” Shutran said in a phone
interview yesterday. Once voted in, the new structure will also
send a message to clients that the heads of the most profitable
practices are committed to the firm’s future, he said.  “We’re responding to a general sentiment that we should be
more involved in the executive management of the firm,” he
said.  “On insurance, we’re confident that the group’s departure
has no impact on our firm’s profitability,” Shutran said.
“That group was break-even at best.”  Dewey earned about $250 million last year, Shutran said.  Revenue for the first two months of this year rose 28
percent from a year earlier, and so called billable value
increased 13 percent, according to the letter. Revenue for the
12 months through Feb. 29 grew 6 percent with an increase in
billable value of 9.7 percent, according to the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 