-- Heart Attack Victims Cut Risk With 2 Drinks, Harvard Study Says
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-03-27T23:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/heart-attack-victims-cut-risk-with-2-drinks-harvard-study-says.html
Men who have two drinks a day after
surviving a first heart attack have a lower risk of death from
 heart disease  than non-drinkers, Harvard researchers said,
adding to evidence that moderate alcohol use may be healthy.  Men who survived a heart attack and who drank two alcoholic
drinks a day had a 42 percent lower risk of death from
cardiovascular disease and 14 percent lower risk of death from
any cause during the study compared with non-drinkers, according
to a study led by  Jennifer Pai , an assistant professor of
medicine at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and  Harvard Medical
School . The study followed 1,818 men for as many as 20 years
from the time of their first heart attack.  The results, published today in the European Heart Journal,
add to other studies that have observed the positive effects of
moderate drinking. People who have one drink or fewer each day
are 14 percent to 25 percent less likely to develop heart
disease compared with those who don’t imbibe, Canadian
researchers said last year. Until now, data on whether it can
also help heart attack survivors have been limited and
conflicting, according to Pai.  Recommended Guidelines  “The findings of our study support the European Society of
Cardiology recommended guidelines for long-term management of
acute coronary syndromes that moderate alcohol consumption of 10
to 30 grams per day in men should not be discouraged and may be
beneficial for long-term prognosis after a heart attack,” Pai
said in a statement.  Participants who drank between 10 and 29.9 grams (1.1
ounces) of alcohol content were categorized as moderate
drinkers. A bottle or can of beer contains 12.8 grams, while a
4-ounce glass of wine has 11 grams of alcohol. Men who drank the
most, 30 grams or more a day, had a risk of death from any cause
that was similar to that of non-drinkers.  In previous studies, moderate alcohol intake has been
associated with increased levels of HDL, or so-called good
cholesterol, improved insulin sensitivity and other effects that
reduce heart attack risk, Pai said in the study.  Europeans consume more alcohol, about double the global
average at 12.5 liters (3.3 gallons) of alcohol content a year,
than in any other part of the world, the  World Health
Organization  said yesterday. That amounts to 27 grams of alcohol
per day. Consumption is highest in central-eastern and eastern
 Europe  at 14.5 liters a year.  While Pai’s study only observed men, associations tend to
be similar between chronic disease and lower quantities of
alcohol for women, Pai said.  “An association is likely to be observed at five to 14.9
grams per day, or up to a drink a day for women,” she said.  The study was funded by the U.S. National Institutes of
Health.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  