-- Heart Bypass Beats Stents for Survival in Obama-Backed Research
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-03-27T18:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/heart-bypass-beats-stents-for-survival-in-obama-backed-research.html
Older patients with fatty plaque
clogging several of their heart arteries are more likely to
survive if they undergo bypass surgery rather than getting
stents to clear the vessels and hold them open, a study found.  The data presented today at the  American College of
Cardiology  meeting in Chicago stem from one of the first studies
conducted using U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s 2009 stimulus
funding, which provided $1.1 billion for clinical trials that
compare rival therapies. The study analyzed data from 189,793
Americans ages 65 or older who received treatment in the
community, providing what doctors call real-world results.  After four years, 83.6 percent of patients getting open-
heart surgery were alive, compared with 79.2 percent of those
treated with the less-invasive artery-clearing procedure known
as angioplasty and stents made by  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ,  Boston
Scientific Corp. (BSX)  and  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  The study confirms earlier
findings and gives patients more information about the long-term
trade-offs of treatment, researchers said.  “This moves the bar along and may help us do things
better,” though it won’t completely change care,  William
Weintraub , the lead researchers and chairman of cardiology at
Christiana Care Health System in  Newark ,  Delaware , said in an
interview. “It is much larger than any other study, it covers
the entire country” and the results apply to the general
population, he said.  Patient Caseload  Each year, about 1 million Americans undergo procedures to
clear their arteries, a less-invasive way of restoring healthy
blood flow to the heart. The approach avoids the need to crack
open the chest, a painful procedure that requires weeks of
recovery. No one should underestimate the recovery time from the
bypass operation, Weintraub said.  “There is fear, and there is also discounting, where
people value things more upfront rather than in the distance,”
he said. “Patients say I’ll take less pain now, and I’ll worry
about dying in four years in four years. We should listen to
patients when they say these things.”  The research found patients benefited more from bypass
surgery regardless of their age, gender or other medical
conditions, said Fred Edwards, a senior author of the study from
the University of  Florida . Those results were unexpected and
should lead patients to take another look at surgery, he said in
an interview.  The study, funded by the National Heart, Lung and Blood
Institute, was simultaneously published in the  New England
Journal of Medicine.   “This is another study that suggests in people with
extensive disease, surgery is a better approach,” said Douglas Weaver, chairman of cardiology at the Henry Ford Health System
in  Detroit , who wasn’t involved in the research. “The pendulum
has been swinging that way. Doctors are saying I’m not going to
try to reconstruct arteries with stents. This paper shows that’s
the right direction to go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  