-- Tech Firms Share Fault in Distracted Driving: NTSB Head
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-03-27T17:52:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/tech-firms-share-fault-in-distracted-driving-ntsb-head.html
The top U.S. transportation safety
investigator said companies such as  Intel Corp. (INTC)  that are
investing in in-car  information technology  are slowing efforts
to reduce hazards from distracted driving.  “If the technology producers focused more on what is safe
than what sells, we’d see highway fatalities go down,” National
Transportation Safety Board Chairman  Deborah Hersman  said in an
e-mailed statement today, as she convened a distracted-driving
forum in  Washington .  Distracted driving caused by handheld and other electronics
in cars has been the top safety priority of Ray LaHood since he
became U.S. transportation secretary in 2009. Hersman, whose
board operates independently, in December went further than
LaHood, calling for a ban on all phone use while driving, even
with hands-free devices.  “We have got to dispel the myth of multitasking,” Hersman
said at the forum. “We are still learning what the human brain
can handle. What is the price of our desire to be mobile and
connected at the same time?”  Intel, the world’s largest maker of semiconductors and
computer chips, said last month it is expanding development of
in-vehicle infotainment using its technology and its capital
unit is creating a $100 million “connected car fund.”  John Lee , a  University of Wisconsin  professor who has
studied distracted driving, cited the Intel announcement at the
forum as an example of companies focusing on adding technology
to cars.  Eyes Off Road  “The pace of change is daunting,” he said in testimony to
the safety board, citing himself as an example of a distracted
driver who has scrolled through a music playlist and taken his
eyes off the road. “The pace of change far outstrips the pace
of regulatory response.”  Intel’s work on automotive technologies will include
finding ways to make such systems safer,  Laura Anderson , a
spokeswoman for the  Santa Clara , California-based company, said
in an e-mail.  “Intel is working closely with automakers and in-vehicle
infotainment suppliers to help integrate advanced technologies
into cars to enhance the in-vehicle experience as well as
advanced driver assistance systems,” she said. “A significant
area of focus for the $100 million  Intel Capital  connected car
fund is to accelerate innovation for driver and passenger
safety. For example, the fund will invest in startups developing
technologies for advanced driver assistance, gesture recognition
and sensors.”  Data Driven  The Transportation Department last month issued voluntary
guidelines for automakers for built-in systems used for
infotainment and navigation. The guidelines recommend that no
task for drivers take longer than two seconds and that cars be
stopped and in park before drivers can enter navigation commands
or use social networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter.  The safety board, which determines causes of crashes in all
modes of transportation, hasn’t investigated any accidents where
navigation systems were found to be a cause, Hersman said at the
press conference.  The Association of Global Automakers, a Washington-based
group whose members include Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor
Co., will tell the safety board later today that anti-
distracted-driving initiatives should be based on data.  “When integrating the convenience features demanded by
today’s consumers, factors such as safety, usability and
comprehension are all considered,” Michael Cammisa, Global
Automakers’ safety director, said in a statement. “Our members
take a measured approach when designing a vehicle and deciding
what features to include.”  In 2010, 3,092 people, or 9.4 percent of road fatalities,
were killed in crashes related to driver distraction, according
to the  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  