-- Mechel Declines in U.S. as Russia Probe to Last Until Next Week
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-03-27T18:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/mechel-declines-in-u-s-as-russia-probe-to-last-until-next-week.html
OAO Mechel (MTL)  headed to the lowest
closing price in three weeks in U.S. trading after Russia’s
environmental watchdog said a review into a unit will only be
completed next week.  American depositary receipts  of Moscow-based  Mechel (MTLR) ,
Russia’s largest producer of coal for steelmakers, fell 2.1
percent to $9.73 by 2:10 p.m. in  New York , set for the lowest
close since March 6, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The environmental watchdog said it will complete a review
of Mechel’s Yakutugol coal division only next week, after the
Natural Resources Ministry reported “significant” license
violations were found. The watchdog is preparing a report and
will submit it to the Subsoil Resource Agency, which oversees
licensing, after the inspections are completed on April 4, the
regulator known as Rosprirodnadzor said today in a statement on
its website. Both oversight bodies are part of the ministry.  Rosprirodnadzor replaced an earlier statement on its
website, removing a line that said reports of “significant”
license violations at the coal-mining unit were “erroneous.”  Mechel didn’t see where it could have significant
violations and expected to resolve any issues after getting the
report, Ekaterina Videman, a company spokeswoman, said March 22.  The stock is trading at a 2.6 percent discount to the
company’s Moscow shares, the widest since March 5, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Mechel (MTLR)  rose 1.4 percent to 290 rubles, or
$9.99, in Moscow today. One New York-listed ADR is equal to one
ordinary share traded on  Russia ’s Micex Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  