-- Medco Takeover Seen Making SXC Priciest Target: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-03-27T02:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/medco-takeover-seen-making-sxc-priciest-target-real-m-a.html
The increasing likelihood that 
 Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) 's acquisition of  Medco (MHS)  Health Solutions 
Inc. will succeed is now turning  SXC Health Solutions Corp. (SXCI)  
into the industry’s most expensive takeover candidate.  The gap between Medco’s share price and the value of 
Express Scripts’s $34 billion offer this month reached the 
narrowest since it was announced in July, signaling traders are 
confident the deal will close, according to data compiled by 
Bloomberg. Buying SXC, which is projected to boost profit by 
than 80 percent in the next two years, would allow rivals to 
better compete against a company that will dominate the $200 
billion U.S. drug-benefits management market.  While SXC is trading at 30 times analysts’ 2012 earnings
estimates, about twice the industry median, the Lisle, Illinois-
based company’s growth may attract suitors from UnitedHealth
Group Inc. to  Catalyst Health Solutions Inc. (CHSI) , according to Wall
Street Access and Leerink Swann LLC. By acquiring SXC, which
also is one of the biggest providers of technology for
processing prescription claims, a buyer would gain a company
that is estimated to  increase revenue  60 percent by 2013, the
data show.  “SXC is a bit pricey, but they’re potentially winning
large amounts of business,”  David Larsen , a Boston-based
analyst for Leerink Swann, said in a telephone interview. With
the pending Express Scripts-Medco deal, “the ability to gain
leverage and scale in the pharmacy benefit management space is
very important. SXC has a terrific platform,” he said.  Tony Perkins, a spokesman for SXC, declined to comment on
whether the company has been approached by any buyers within the
pharmacy-benefits management, or PBM, industry, or is
considering a sale.  Negotiating Prices  Tim Pearson, chief financial officer of Rockville,
Maryland-based Catalyst, didn’t immediately respond to a
telephone message and e-mail seeking comment, while Tyler Mason,
a spokesman for Minnetonka, Minnesota-based  UnitedHealth (UNH) , said
the company doesn’t comment on takeover speculation.  Founded as Systems Xcellence in 1993, SXC negotiates with
drugmakers for lower prescription medicine prices on behalf of
health insurers, Medicare and Medicaid plans, workers’
compensation programs and long-term care facilities. The company
also makes software that processed one out of every five drug
claims in the U.S, according to the company’s 2010  annual
report .  With traders now betting that the Express Scripts-Medco
deal will clear Federal Trade Commission hurdles to create the
largest U.S. manager of prescription drug benefits, SXC may
emerge as a takeover candidate as acquisitions in the industry
accelerate, said Will Harrington, a New York-based merger
arbitrage analyst at Wall Street Access.  More Deals  “It feels like things are lining up and it appears that
FTC approval is more likely than not at this point” for  Express
Scripts ’ Medco purchase, Harrington said in a telephone
interview. “Usually when you see a consolidating industry like
this, it doesn’t stop with the one sizeable deal.”  The gap between Express Scripts’ cash-and-stock offer and
Medco’s stock price has narrowed in the past month, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  After trading more than $10 a share below the offer in
February, Medco rose to within $2.34 a share of the takeover
price on March 14, closer than at any time since the acquisition
was announced on July 21, the data show. Medco ended at $69.50 a
share yesterday, less than 4 percent below the current value of
its agreement with Express Scripts.  Larger Rival  SXC could lure a larger rival such as UnitedHealth, the
biggest U.S. health insurer by sales, which is investing in its
PBM unit as the $57.6 billion company prepares to take back some
business it had farmed out to Medco in recent years, Harrington
said.  “SXC’s interesting because it’s one of the sizeable
independent PBMs and they also have a little bit of a health-
care technology component to them,” Harrington said.  The $4.5 billion company also could combine with a similar-
sized competitor such as Catalyst, putting the new entity in a
stronger position to negotiate prices with manufacturers,
according to  Leerink Swann ’s Larsen. Buying SXC would help
Catalyst almost  double its sales  and widen its lead as the
third-largest PBM provider, according to data provided by
Bloomberg.  After boosting its forecasts for sales and earnings per
share for the year ended in December, the company reported 2011
results last month that exceeded analysts’ estimates. The
company’s shares climbed 28 percent this year through yesterday
for the  second-biggest gain  after Rite Aid Inc. in Bloomberg
Industries’  North American Health Care Supply Chain Index (BINHCSCC) .  Most Expensive  Based on yesterday’s closing price of $72.38, the company
was valued at about 30 times its  projected earnings  for this
year, the most among 12 U.S. companies involved in the supply
chain for pharmaceuticals or medical equipment with market
capitalizations greater than $500 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The median multiple for the group is
about 15, the data show.  Including net debt, the company was valued at 25 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
The multiple, more than double the average for the group, is
also more than twice the 11.34 times Ebitda that Express Scripts
offered for Medco, the data show.  While a takeover of SXC wouldn’t be cheap, the company
deserves a higher valuation because sales and earnings will
continue growing, said Leerink Swann’s Larsen.  Earnings Gains  Analysts are projecting revenue will climb about 60 percent
to almost $8 billion in 2013 after more than doubling last year
as the company made its own acquisitions and was awarded new
contracts. During the same period, Catalyst’s  revenue is
estimated  to rise by half as much, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  SXC’s  net income , which rose in seven of the last eight
years, will increase 83 percent by 2013 to a record $168
million, according to the average of analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company said last month that it won a three-year, $1.2
billion contract for Blue Cross & Blue Shield of  Rhode Island ,
replacing Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) ,
which is more than 13 times the size of SXC with a market value
of about $59 billion.  Potential suitors may also want SXC’s information-
technology division, which would hand a buyer relationships with
30 to 40 other PBMs and the opportunity for further
consolidation, said Brooks O’Neil, a Minneapolis-based analyst
for Dougherty & Co. SXC’s technology unit in October signed a
five-year renewal to supply Catalyst with its claim software.  Buying, Not Bought  While the software unit made up all of SXC’s revenue just
five years ago, it accounted for only 2.3 percent, or $116
million, of sales last year as pharmacy-benefits management
comprises the larger portion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Constantine Davides, an analyst for JMP Securities in
 Boston , said SXC can benefit more from buying its smaller
competitors rather than selling itself. Bulking up its PBM
business may even make it a more attractive takeover target in
the years ahead, he said.  SXC announced at least three  acquisitions  last year,
including its $250 million purchase of  Greenwood Village ,
Colorado-based HealthTrans LLC. The transaction, which closed in
January, will produce as much as $15 million in annual cost
savings, SXC said.  Potential acquirers of SXC may also wait until there’s more
clarity on how President  Barack Obama ’s health-care reform law
and the coming election will affect the industry, said  Les Funtleyder , a New York-based health strategist and portfolio
manager at Miller Tabak & Co., which oversees $800 million.  Supreme Court Review  The U.S.  Supreme Court  yesterday began the first of three
days of hearings to determine whether the government can require
millions of Americans to obtain health insurance.  “Once we get past the Supreme Court and the presidential
election, that may intensify deal making just because it will be
easier for companies to carry out long-term strategies,
Funtleyder said in a telephone interview.  Still, SXC’s focus on Medicare and Medicaid -- the
government programs to provide healthcare for the elderly,
disable and poor -- may help a larger rival, O’Neil said. The
number of Americans covered by Medicare will likely increase as
the population ages, while Medicaid is set to expand under the
new health-care regulations, SXC said in a February  filing  with
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  SXC “is a very attractive takeover candidate,” O’Neil
said. “They target a number of niche markets that the big guys
haven’t targeted traditionally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 