-- Edson Spencer, Honeywell CEO Who Gave Up IBM Fight, Dies at 85
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-03-27T18:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/edson-spencer-honeywell-ceo-who-gave-up-ibm-fight-dies-at-85.html
Edson Spencer, who as head of
Honeywell Inc. first battled IBM’s dominance of the computer
market in the 1980s, then gave in and focused his company on
automation and aerospace technology, has died. He was 85.  He died on March 25 at his home in Wayzata, Minnesota,
after battling progressive supranuclear palsy, a
neurodegenerative brain disease, his daughter, Linda Spencer
Murchison, said today in an interview.  In his 34-year career at Honeywell -- known as  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON)  since its acquisition in 1999 by AlliedSignal
Inc. -- Spencer rose from an aeronautical engineer to the
company’s chief executive officer from 1974 to 1987. Midway
through his tenure, Honeywell’s top competitor in  mainframe
computers ,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , settled a
long-running antitrust investigation by the U.S. Justice
Department that had constrained its growth.  IBM’s “power wasn’t recognizable before then,” Spencer
told Computerworld magazine in 1986. With the antitrust case
behind it, IBM invested in new factories and took on Japanese
competitors, “and the government permitted them to go after new
market share without fear of antitrust reprisal. That’s when the
name of the game changed, and that’s the point at which we had
to redirect our own strategies.”  Honeywell, he said, had become “the freewheeling
entrepreneurs who are charging off in our own direction.”  ‘Outstanding Opportunity’  Within a year after that interview was published,
 Honeywell , then located in  Minneapolis , spun off its computer
unit into a venture shared with NEC Corp. of Japan and Groupe
Bull SA,  France ’s state-owned computer maker. As part of the
restructuring, Honeywell pledged to eliminate 4,000 jobs, the
 Associated Press  reported. It also purchased the Sperry
Aerospace Group, maker of electronic gear for military and
commercial aircraft, from Unisys Corp.  In a statement at the time, Spencer called the purchase
“an outstanding opportunity for Honeywell that positions us for
the long term in a market that is expected to have significant
growth for the next 10 years, commercial and military
aviation.”  Today, Honeywell’s aerospace unit, which makes cockpit
controls and auxiliary power units, is the second-largest of the
company’s four divisions, behind automation and control
solutions. It had $11.5 billion of sales last year, or 31
percent of total sales of $36.5 billion for the company, now
based in Morris Township,  New Jersey .  Railroads, Meat Packing  Edson White Spencer was born on June 4, 1926, and raised in
 Chicago , the son of William M. Spencer, chairman of the North
American Car Corp., which leased and operated railroad cars, and
the former Gertrude White. His maternal grandfather, F. Edson
White, worked his way up to the presidency of the Armour & Co.
meat-packing business and served on the board of Chase National
Bank.  Spencer attended Hotchkiss School in Lakeville,
 Connecticut , and was an usher at the 1947 wedding of his
classmate and friend, William Clay Ford, grandson of the founder
of Ford Motor Co., to Martha Parke Firestone, daughter of the
president of the Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. and granddaughter
of its founder.  After being discharged in 1946 as an officer in the U.S.
Naval Reserve, he graduated from Williams College and earned a
master’s degree from Oxford University, which he attended for
two years as a Rhodes scholar, according to his  resume  on the
website of the Hubert H. Humphrey School of Public Affairs at
the University of  Minnesota , where he was a former chairman of
the Deans Advisory Council.  Climbing Honeywell’s Ladder  He worked for Sears Roebuck & Co. in Sioux City,  Iowa ; La
Crosse,  Wisconsin ; and  Venezuela  before settling in Minneapolis
in 1954. After joining Honeywell in 1954, he worked as regional
manager for Honeywell Asia based in  Tokyo  from 1959 to 1964,
according to a death notice in the New York Times.  He became an executive vice president in 1969 and was
promoted to president and CEO in October 1974. After stepping
down as CEO in 1987, he remained chairman for another year.  U.S.-Japanese relations were among his passions, and he
served on the U.S.- Japan  Business Council and the Trilateral
Commission, according to the notice.  Spencer and his wife of 62 years, the former Harriet
McClure Stuart, were founders and longtime supporters of the
 Yellowstone Park Foundation . In addition to Murchison they had
three children: Douglas Stuart Spencer and James McClure Spencer
and Edson W. Spencer Jr., founder and chairman of Affinity
Capital Management in Minneapolis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  