-- Egyptian Parties Quit Constitutional Panel Over Islamists
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 2012-03-27T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/egypt-parties-quit-constitution-panel-citing-islamist-dominance.html
Some of Egypt’s leading secular
political parties walked out of a panel drafting the country’s
next constitution, as a court said it would rule next month on a
challenge to the committee’s legitimacy.  Parties including the Free Egyptians, founded by
billionaire Naguib Sawiris, the Egyptian  Social Democrats  and
the Tagammu Party announced at a press conference in Cairo
yesterday that they were leaving the newly-elected 100-seat
constitutional committee along with a number of prominent
lawmakers such as Amr Hamzawy and Mohamed Abu Hamed. They
criticized what they said were attempts by the Muslim
Brotherhood to monopolize the selection of members.  “We withdrew in defense of the constitution and
democracy,” Tagammu deputy leader Samir Fayad said in an
interview at the party’s headquarters. “There is one political
bloc monopolizing the framework of the constituent committee,
and this runs counter to the interests” of Egyptians as a
whole. The groups have complained that the Muslim Brotherhood,
which holds a plurality in parliament, is ignoring the interests
of minority groups.  The twin developments added to the turmoil surrounding the
transition to democracy in the Arab world’s most populous nation
following last year’s uprising that overthrew  Hosni Mubarak .  Yesterday, the Brotherhood met for more than seven hours to
discuss fielding a presidential candidate in May elections, a
move it had earlier ruled out. The group’s Shura Council
adjourned the meeting until April 3, the Brotherhood said in an
e-mailed statement. The meeting was marked by heated debate over
whether the candidate should come from within or outside the
Brotherhood, the official Middle East  News Agency  reported,
without saying how it obtained the information.  ‘Lack of Certainty’  There’s “a lack of certainty about how Egypt is moving,”
Said Hirsh, Middle East economist at London-based Capital
Economics Ltd., said in a telephone interview. “The issues that
the Brotherhood are focusing on are distracting from issues like
the economy that are much more important in  Egypt .”  Separately, a Cairo administrative court said it would rule
on April 10 on around a dozen complaints before considering the
committee’s legitimacy. At issue is the decision to reserve 50
percent of the seats for lawmakers.  Egypt’s transition has set back the economy’s recovery,
with output growing at the  slowest pace  in about two decades.
Hirsh said he forecasts an expansion of about 1 percent for the
current fiscal year, accelerating to 3 percent in the following
one. For a stronger performance, “we’d need to see some
political stability,” which hasn’t happened so far, he said.  Generals Criticized  The walkout is merely part of Egypt’s emerging democratic
process, where all parties have to hammer out their differences,
said  Jon Alterman , director of the Middle East Program at the
Center for Strategic and International Studies in  Washington .  “It’s the opening act,” Alterman said in an interview.
“What would worry me is if none of this were happening -- that
would suggest a few people got together in a back room and dealt
themselves in and everyone else out.”  The Brotherhood, whose political arm holds almost half of
the seats in parliament, has criticized the generals who took
over from Mubarak for ignoring calls to fire the current interim
government, as well as general mismanagement.  The ruling military council has countered by rejecting
“baseless” accusations in a statement that publicly recalled
the 1954 crackdown on the Brotherhood. “We ask everyone to be
aware of the lessons of history to avoid mistakes from a past we
do not want to return to,” it said.  Inflation (EGICHIY) , currency depreciation pressures and an agreement
with the  International Monetary Fund  over a possible $3.2
billion loan should be at the center of politicians’ concerns,
analysts say.  Political Novices  Eurasia Group Mideast analyst Hani Sabra notes the
inexperience of two key players on the political scene -- the
Brotherhood and the military.  “What we’ve seen with the issue of concluding a deal with
the IMF is indicative of the fact that Egypt can’t afford having
people learn on the job,” Sabra said in a telephone interview.
“We’re going to continue to see these missteps by people who
are politically naïve,” he said, referring to the dispute
between the Brotherhood and the military.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  