-- Lehman Mediator Chosen in Stockton Talks With Creditors
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-03-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/lehman-brothers-mediator-selected-by-stockton-creditors-2-.html
Ralph Mabey, who serves as a court-
appointed mediator in the  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEH) 
bankruptcy, will guide talks with creditors and  Stockton (3654MF) ,
 California , the city on the verge of seeking court protection.  Mabey, 67, a lawyer with Stutman, Treister & Glatt, was
chosen by Stockton and the participants, according to a
statement from the the city yesterday. He is a former U.S.
bankruptcy judge who was appointed to help resolve derivatives
disputes from Lehman, the biggest case of its kind in U.S.
history. Mabey declined to comment on his latest appointment.  The selection starts the clock on 60 days of mediation
required under state law before the city can seek court
protection. The farming center about 80 miles (130 kilometers)
east of San Francisco teeters on the brink of insolvency because
of escalating retiree costs, accounting errors and the lingering
effects of the recession, City Manager Bob Deis said last month.  “We’re moving forward,”  Marc Levinson , an Orrick,
Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP lawyer in Sacramento who represents
Stockton, said by telephone.  The City Council voted Feb. 28 to default on $2 million in
bond payments and pursue negotiations with creditors. Stockton
said on March 21 that 18 of those, holding at least $5 million
in debt, had agreed to talks.  Public Pension  They include the  California Public Employees’ Retirement
System , the largest U.S. public pension;  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the
fourth-largest U.S. bank by assets; Union Bank NA, a unit of San
Francisco-based UnionBanCal Corp., part of  Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Japan ’s largest publicly traded bank; the
National Public Finance Guarantee Corp., a unit of MBIA Inc.
that insures municipal bonds against default; and a New York
unit of Brussels-based  Dexia SA. (DEXB)   The police, fire and city employee unions and the U.S.
Housing and Urban Development Department have also said they
will take part.  “We’re pleased with the selection of Mabey,” David E.
Mastagni, a lawyer for the police union, said by telephone.
“We’re hopeful these issues can be resolved without resorting
to bankruptcy.”  The mediation is confidential under state law. The talks
will take as long as 60 days, with the option to extend the
negotiations another 30 days.  Moody’s Downgrade  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday cut its ratings on
Stockton’s pension-obligation and lease-revenue bonds, citing
“the growing likelihood of default and the potential for less
than 100 percent recovery for bondholders.”  Stockton could become the largest U.S. city to seek court
protection. Jefferson County,  Alabama , turned in the biggest
municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history last November, with $4.2
billion in debt. Vallejo, California, sought Chapter 9
reorganization in 2008.  Among metropolitan areas with more than 200,000 residents,
Stockton had the second-highest foreclosure rate in the U.S.
last year after  Las Vegas , according to Irvine, California-based
RealtyTrac Inc. The California city’s unemployment rate was
almost 17 percent in January, double the U.S. rate of 8.3
percent that month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  