-- Emerging-Market Stocks Gain Most in Two Weeks on U.S.
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-03-27T21:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/emerging-market-stocks-gain-most-in-two-weeks-on-u-s-.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced for
a third day as data showed  consumer confidence  in the U.S. held
near a one-year high in March and after the  Federal Reserve 
signaled it favors monetary easing.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 1.1 percent to
1,055.42 at the close in New York, the biggest jump since March
13, led by technology and industrial companies.  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  rose the most in two weeks to a record high in
 Seoul .  China Cosco Holdings Company Ltd. (1919)  gained the most in two
months, leading advances among Chinese shippers, after Credit
Suisse said the stocks are cheap. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  rose for the first time in ten days.  Confidence among U.S. consumers held close to the highest
level in a year in March and a measure of South Korean consumer
confidence reached a four-month high. Continued accommodative
monetary policy is probably needed to push the U.S. jobless rate
lower, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s Bernanke said
yesterday.  The  U.S. economy  is “improving and it will continue to
improve at a moderate pace,”  Tim Hall , who manages $700 million
at Deltec Asset Management in New York, said by phone. “The
expectations have increased as people are feeling a little bit
better about the U.S. economy.”  Emerging-market stocks have gained 15 percent this quarter,
heading for their best start to a year since 1992. The  MSCI
World (MXWO)  Index of  developed-nation shares  has gained 12 percent, to
trade for 13.2 times estimated earnings. That’s more expensive
than emerging-market equities, which trade for 10.8 times
estimated earnings.  ETF Drops  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF that tracks developing-nation shares,
lost 0.5 percent to $43.42. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
 Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge of options prices
on the fund and expectations of price swings, rose 3.1 percent
to 25.63.  “Confirmation of the U.S. getting back on track is always
very good news in my book,”  Benoit Anne , chief emerging-market
strategist at Societe Generale SA, said by phone from  London .
“The Fed was coming to the rescue of global sentiment, with
Bernanke’s reiteration of a dovish role.”  Cia. Paranaense de Energia , the largest electricity
distributor in  Brazil ’s southern region, slumped 3.5 percent,
the biggest one-day loss since October, after reporting 2011
adjusted net income that fell short of analysts’ estimates. The
benchmark Bovespa stock index fell 1 percent.  South Korea, Thailand  The  Bank of Korea  said today consumer confidence in  South
Korea  rose to a four-month high of 101 in March, buoyed by signs
of improvement in the U.S. and progress in containing  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  gained 1 percent, the most since
March 13, and  Thailand ’s  SET Index (SET)  increased 1.6 percent.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd., (2330)  the
world’s largest contract maker of chips, rose 2.6 percent in
Taipei trading. Samsung Electronics Co., South Korea’s biggest
exporter of consumer electronics, gained 2.8 percent.  Russian stocks  fell for the first time in three days,
slumping 0.7 percent, as  United Co. Rusal (RUALR) , the world’s biggest
aluminum producer, dropped for a fourth day.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 340, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  