-- Enbridge Venture Plans Pipes to Gulf as Keystone Blocked
-- B y   M i k e   L e e   a n d   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-03-27T20:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/enbridge-venture-plans-oil-pipes-to-gulf-as-keystone-blocked-1-.html
Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , the biggest Canadian
pipeline company, and  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  plan to
expand crude shipments to the U.S. Gulf Coast as supplies
increase from Canada’s  oil sands  and the Bakken Shale in the
Northern Plains.  Enbridge and Enterprise received enough shipper commitments
to more than double capacity of the Seaway pipeline by mid-2014,
according to a statement issued late yesterday. The companies
will add 450,000 barrels a day to the system that links the U.S.
oil trading hub at Cushing,  Oklahoma , with the Gulf Coast.
Enbridge also will expand its Flanagan South project linking
 Illinois  and Cushing.  Enbridge’s system, once completed, “will allow Canadian
oil-sands barrels to flow all the way to the Gulf Coast,”
Jackie Forrest, senior director of global oil for IHS Cambridge
Energy Research Associates, an industry consultant, said.  The decision to expand follows U.S. political opposition
that has thwarted construction of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone
XL pipeline, which would bring crude from  Alberta ’s oil sands to
refiners on the Gulf Coast. At 850,000 barrels a day, the
expanded Seaway line exceeds Keystone XL’s planned capacity of
as much as 830,000 barrels.  “Expansion of the Seaway pipeline, along with Enbridge’s
Flanagan South project, will provide crude oil producers in the
Bakken region and other emerging crude oil sources capacity to
move secure, reliable supply to U.S. Gulf Coast refineries,
offsetting supplies of imported crude,” Pat Daniel, chairman
and chief executive officer of Calgary-based Enbridge, said in
the statement.  Record Bakken Output  New technology has boosted output in the oil sands and
Bakken Shale, which holds an estimated 3.6 billion barrels of
crude, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  North Dakota 
produced a record 546,047 barrels a day in January. A bottleneck
at Cushing is keeping the price of North Dakota oil about 30
percent below West  Texas  Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark, the
 state’s Department of Mineral Resources said .  The Seaway system, which previously moved crude north from
the coast to Oklahoma, is being reversed to ease the supply glut
at Cushing, the delivery point for WTI crude futures.  The total cost of the Seaway reversal and expansion is $2
billion, which will be split evenly between Enbridge and
Enterprise. Enbridge earlier paid $1.15 billion for
 ConocoPhillips (COP) ’s 50 percent stake in the pipeline. Enbridge will
spend $2.8 billion on the Flanagan South pipeline, the company
said in a separate release yesterday.  Pump Upgrades  Enbridge and Houston-based Enterprise are scheduled to
provide 150,000 barrels a day of capacity by June 1. That will
rise to 400,000 barrels by 2013 after pump additions and
upgrades, the companies said.  The companies may increase the twin line’s capacity beyond
450,000 barrels a day if enough shippers are interested,  Rick Rainey , an Enterprise spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  Enbridge already has excess capacity on its mainline system,
which runs from Western Canada to Illinois. Combined with the
Seaway and Flanagan expansions, Enbridge will be able to ship an
additional 500,000 barrels from  Canada  to the U.S. Gulf Coast,
Vern Yu, vice president of business development and asset
management at Enbridge, said in a telephone interview today.  Keystone Rejection  Oil production in  North America  is rising fast enough to
support both the expanded Seaway and Keystone pipeline between
Cushing and Texas, John Cusick, an analyst with Wunderlich
Securities Inc. in  New York , said in a telephone interview.
Enterprise itself estimates that North American oil production
could reach 6 million barrels a day by 2020, according to a
presentation on the company’s website.  Owning an existing pipeline on the route “definitely gives
them an advantage,” since the new Seaway pipeline can be built
on existing right of way, said Cusick, who rates Enterprise a
“buy” and owns none of its partnership units.  The response from shippers during an open season
“supported expansion even before the initial 150,000 barrels
per day came online,”  Bradley Olsen , an analyst with Houston-
based Tudor Pickering Holt & Co., wrote in a note to clients
today.  Enbridge and Enterprise received pledges ranging from five
to 20 years from customers to support building a 512-mile (824-
kilometer) line parallel to the current route, according to the
statement.  TransCanada’s Plans  Enbridge owns 15,200 miles (24,600 kilometers) of pipelines
that ship more than 2.2 million barrels of crude oil and liquids
a day, according to its website. The company has proposed
building the Northern Gateway pipeline, a 1,180-kilometer
project across the Rocky Mountains that would bring oil-sands
crude to the coast of British Columbia.  The Seaway project will increase capacity to move oil from
north to south after President  Barack Obama  blocked the Keystone
XL pipeline in January. TransCanada said it wants to begin
building a section of the Keystone line between Cushing and the
 Gulf Coast  by June, and Obama said March 22 he wants to expedite
any federal permits for that project.  Enbridge rose 0.6 percent to C$38.46 at the close in
Toronto. Enterprise fell 0.2 percent to $50.80 in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  