-- EnQuest to Increase U.K. Investment After Budget Incentives
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-03-27T15:43:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/enquest-to-invest-more-in-u-k-after-osborne-s-budget-incentives.html
EnQuest Plc (ENQ) , a North Sea oil
company, said it will invest more in the U.K. after Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  promised to guarantee tax breaks
for dismantling platforms and developing new fields.  “We’re very pleased with the budget,” Chief Executive
Officer Amjad Bseisu said in a Bloomberg television interview.
“We’ll be looking to invest more in light of the changes.”  EnQuest plans to spend $1 billion on its projects this
year, half of which will go to its Alma and Galia fields, which
will allow the company to almost double production over the next
two years. The company also said today it increased its stake in
the West Don field, buying an additional 18.5 percent interest
from JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. for $34 million.  EnQuest, formed in 2010 from a demerger of assets from
Petrofac Ltd. and Lundin Petroleum AB, reported that gross
profit more than doubled last year to $444.2 million. The
company expects production of as much as 24,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day this year after 23,698 last year, with output
rising to about 40,000 barrels in 2014.  The shares slipped 1.7 percent to 129.6 pence in  London .  Osborne last week said he would guarantee tax relief for
the dismantling of installations, making it easier to sell off
assets to buyers who will spend more on them. U.K. law holds
sellers responsible for decommissioning if the buyer can’t pay,
leading sellers to demand letters of credit for the potential
costs and adding to the expense of deals. Osborne has also
promised to increase tax allowances on marginal fields after
raising taxes on oil profits a year ago.  Bseisu said EnQuest is looking at opportunities for
acquisitions in the U.K. and abroad, though he declined to give
any specific targets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  