-- EPA Introduces First Greenhouse-Gas Limits for Power Plants
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-03-27T18:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/epa-issues-first-greenhouse-gas-limit-for-u-s-power-plants-1-.html
The Environmental Protection Agency
proposed the first limits on greenhouse-gas emissions from U.S.
power plants, the largest source of carbon dioxide linked to
 climate change .  The  rules  will permit emissions from new power plants at
1,000 pounds of carbon dioxide per megawatt hour, about the
level for a modern natural-gas plant, the EPA said today in an
e-mailed statement. The limit would effectively preclude
construction of new coal-fired plants, which are struggling to
compete with decade-low natural gas prices.  “This is an important common-sense step towards tackling
the ongoing threat of climate change,”  Lisa Jackson ,
administrator of the EPA, told reporters today. “We build on
where the industry is going and lock that trend in, which we
believe is an important signal for investors.”  The proposed nationwide standard is the first of its kind
issued by the EPA for carbon dioxide. With the failure of
Congress to cut  carbon emissions , agency actions are seen by
environmental groups as the best chance to combat global
warming.  “This is a milestone in the fight to rein in climate
change,” Joe Mendelson, climate-policy director for the
National Wildlife Federation, said in a statement. “The EPA is
taking a big step toward protecting the world our children will
inherit.”  Global Warming  Carbon-dioxide emissions since the Industrial Revolution
have led to a warming of the earth’s temperature in the past 50
years, threatening to cause extreme weather, drought and coastal
flooding, according to the U.S.  Global Change Research Program .  The rule would only apply to construction of new plants,
and Jackson said the administration has no plans to issue rules
that would affect existing plants. The proposal also would
exempt 15 plants with pending construction permits, and provides
leeway for new coal plants to phase in expensive carbon-capture
technology over 30 years. Plants building controls to comply
with other EPA pollution rules would also not be subject to this
standard.  The initial impact would be minimal as utilities are
closing, not building, coal plants because natural  gas prices 
are at 10-year lows. The share of coal in electricity generation
dropped below 40 percent by the end of 2011, the lowest since
1978, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration in
 Washington .  ‘War on Coal’  Coal-state lawmakers said the proposal is part of a “war
on coal” by President Barack Obama’s administration. A letter
from 221 lawmakers to the White House this year asked that the
rule be dropped, and the EPA issued two sets of standards last
year targeting other pollution from coal plants.  “I continue to be outraged at this administration’s war on
coal,” Representative Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky Republican, said
in a statement. “We’re seeing coal-fired electricity plants
close and will likely see electricity rates skyrocket because of
EPA’s other regulations and the greenhouse gas standards will
only make matters worse.”  The EPA said the rule wouldn’t add costs for power
providers because no coal plants are likely to be built in the
next two decades unless the facilities have carbon-capture
technology. Industry groups say that technology isn’t ready for
commercial use.  ‘Commercially Available’  It “is neither economically viable nor commercially
available,”  Scott Segal , a lobbyist for power providers such as
Southern Co., wrote in a letter to the White House on March 12
in an attempt to head off the regulation.  The average U.S. coal plant emits 2,249 pounds of carbon
dioxide for each megawatt hour of power produced, compared with
1,135 pounds for a natural gas plant, according to the EPA.  Newer  combined-cycle  natural-gas plants, in which the heat
exhaust of a first gas-fueled turbine drives a second generator,
are more efficient. Of those plants built since 2005, 95 percent
could have met the proposed standard, according to the EPA.  Jackson backtracked today from rules the EPA had pledged to
release on carbon-dioxide emissions from existing  power plants .
In late 2010, the agency agreed in a court settlement to issue
rules for both existing and new plants. Last year it delayed
those rules, and Jackson said March 22 that the agency was
negotiating with environmental groups to come up with a new
schedule for standards on existing plants.  She didn’t mention those talks today: “We have no plans to
address existing plants,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  