-- Merkel Said to Say She Sees German Yields Rising as Crisis Ebbs
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-03-27T15:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/merkel-said-to-say-she-sees-bund-interest-rates-rising.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  told
lawmakers that she expects German borrowing costs to rise as the
debt crisis ebbs and the country’s status as a haven wanes,
according to two party officials who took part in the meeting.  Merkel made her comments to lawmakers of her  Christian
Democratic Union  at a regular meeting in parliament in Berlin
today, according to the officials, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the briefing was private.  Yields on  10-year German notes , known as bunds, pared
declines after her remarks were reported before resuming their
fall. The notes yielded 1.89 percent at 5 p.m. in Berlin. That
compares to as low as 1.67 percent in September when investors
concerned that  Greece  was headed to default piled into debt of
AAA rated  Germany ,  Europe ’s biggest economy.  Merkel’s prediction underscores her increased sensitivity
to markets amid the region’s debt crisis now in its third year.
Her 2010 demand that investors share the cost of bailouts
deepened the turmoil as she fought what she called “a kind of
battle” with investors.  She has since cited bond markets to help support her policy
positions. Yesterday, she said yields in Spain and  Portugal 
showed “great sensitivity and fragility” as she backed efforts
to increase the financial firewall against the crisis.  Schaeuble on Bailouts  Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  also briefed lawmakers,
telling them he sees no scenario under which the current euro-
area rescue fund, the European Financial Stability Facility,
will have to issue new bailouts in the next three months,
according to a ruling party official.  Schaeuble said that no new rescues will have to be made
between now and the establishing of the permanent fund, the
European Stability Mechanism, at the beginning of July, the CDU
official told reporters on condition of anonymity because the
meeting was held in private.  Schaeuble said that the EFSF bailouts will keep running
alongside the ESM once it is set up, but that the rest of the
EFSF pot won’t be transferred to the permanent fund, the
official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  