-- Sony Offers Compromises to EU for $2.2 Billion EMI Deal
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-03-27T15:22:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/eu-extends-deadline-of-sony-emi-review-to-april-19.html
A Sony Corp.-led group offered
compromises to European Union regulators examining its $2.2
billion purchase of EMI Group’s publishing unit to address
antitrust concerns.  The European Commission  extended  its deadline to rule on
the deal until April 19 after the companies made the offer,
according to a filing on its website. It didn’t give any details
of the proposed remedies.  The EU is probing the offer from the Sony-led group, which
includes the Michael Jackson estate, Mubadala Development Co.
and  Blackstone Group. (BX)  It is also conducting an in-depth probe of
 Universal Music Group ’s offer to buy parts of the EMI record
label.  The Sony-led group “continues to engage constructively
with the commission regarding its proposed acquisition of EMI
Music Publishing,” Sony/ATV spokesman Jimmy Asci said in an e-
mailed statement. It “remains confident that the transaction
will be approved.”  Asci declined to comment on what concessions the consortium
had offered. The European Commission also declined to comment.  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal had said it expected an in-depth
probe into its plan to buy EMI’s recorded-music business, which
includes the Beatles albums. Sony has agreed to buy the
publishing business, which owns copyrights to songs and
represents songwriters, including Beyonce, Jay-Z and Tinie
Tempah.  The Sony group’s rivals and customers were quizzed by EU
antitrust regulators examining whether the purchase would allow
it to increase prices. The EU also asked whether licenses for
Sony and EMI’s music portfolio were critical for online music
services, according to a copy of the questionnaire seen by
Bloomberg News. The European Commission had a previous deadline
of April 2 to rule on the bid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  