-- Ireland Likely to Win Break on Banking Debt as Treaty Vote Looms
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-03-27T15:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/eu-s-juncker-says-good-reasons-for-easing-irish-debt-burden.html
Irish Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said the state will probably be able to sidestep a March
cash payment on its bank debt, boosting the government as it
seeks to win voter backing for  Europe ’s fiscal treaty.  On March 31, the state is due to make a 3.1 billion-euro
($4.1 billion) cash payment to the former Anglo Irish Bank
Corp., which is supposed to use the funds to reduce its
emergency central bank borrowings. Instead, the lender may use
the funds to buy a new Irish government bond, meaning no net
cash outflow from the state, Honohan told lawmakers in Dublin,
as talks with European authorities continue.  “While some technicalities still need to be resolved, it
now seems likely that this effort will be successful,” Honohan
said today.  Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  is seeking European help to
restructure and cut the long-term cost of about 30 billion euros
of so-called promissory notes used to bail out Anglo Irish in
2010. A concession on the debt may boost support for the fiscal
compact. Ireland’s voters will decide on the treaty on May 31,
Deputy Prime Minister  Eamon Gilmore  told lawmakers today.  An accord on the debt “certainly won’t hurt,” said  Austin
Hughes , an economist at KBC Bank Ireland in Dublin. “It’s
modest positive for the yes side. A payout at the end of the
Month would have had a significant impact on the no vote.”  Honohan said avoiding a net March cash payment is “half a
step” to a wider solution to cutting the cost of the Irish
banking bailout, which may take “several months” to reach.  Risk  Ireland has committed a total of 34.7 billion euro toward
rescuing the bank, which has been merged and renamed Irish Bank
Resolution Corp., as of the end of 2010. The state made the
first 3.1 billion euros cash payment last year.  “The sequence of annual cash payment by the government of
3.06 billion euros envisaged for the coming years in the
promissory notes has become a source of risk to financial
stability,” Honohan said. “A way of funding this cash payment
over a much longer period would clearly help reduce this risk.”  To avoid injecting cash immediately into the lender two
years ago, the Irish state gave it promissory notes. The bank
uses the notes as collateral to access emergency funding from
the country’s central bank.  By going ahead with the cash payment, Ireland is sticking
to its commitment to IBRC, avoiding a default even though the
bank may use the funds to buy a sovereign bond.  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said he sees “good reasons” for
easing Ireland’s debt burden after one of the costliest banking
bailouts in history.  Ireland’s October 2020 bonds, regarded as the benchmark,
yielded 6.83 percent today, down from 9.1 percent at the start
of December.  Ireland, which sought an international bailout in 2010, is
seeking a full return to international credit markets by the
middle of next year.  The country’s debt agency, the National Treasury Management
Agency, today said it had agreed to explore investment
opportunities in Ireland, with CIC International, a subsidiary
of  China ’s sovereign wealth fund. The accord showed Ireland is
nation “is heading in the right direction,” Prime Minister Enda
Kenny said in Beijing today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  