-- EU Studies Kosovar Bid to Win Stabilization, Association Accord
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   B e k i m   G r e i c e v c i
-- 2012-03-27T13:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/eu-studies-kosovar-bid-to-win-stabilization-association-accord.html
The European Union started a
feasibility study of  Kosovo ’s bid to sign a Stabilization and
Association Agreement with the 27-nation bloc.  “The study will make an inventory of where Kosovo stands
overall in terms of political, economic and legal approximation,
and will assess what Kosovo will need to do further to be in a
position to negotiate and implement the agreement,” EU
Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule told reporters today after
meeting Prime Minister Hashim Thaci and other officials in the
capital Pristina.  The agreement is a framework for EU talks with the Balkan
region’s nations to encourage their transition to market
economies, promote regional cooperation and eventually become a
member of the largest trading bloc in the world, according to
the EU’s website.
“This is the path followed by all of your neighbors and marks
the beginning of a new stage in the EU’s relationship with
Kosovo,” Fule said.  Kosovo, which declared independence from Serbia four years
ago, is counting on EU funds to rebuild its infrastructure that
was partially destroyed during the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization bombing that drove Serbian forces out of the
province in 1999. Serbia, the largest ex-Yugoslav republic, won
EU candidate status earlier this month, while Croatia is set to
join the bloc next year. Slovenia is the only EU member, after
joining in 2004.  “The start of the feasibility study is a reconfirmation of
the secure road of Kosovo’s state integration into the  Europe ,”
Prime Minister Thaci said. Kosovo will soon become a member of
the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and will
also have access to funds of the  European Investment Bank , the
lending arm of the EU, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
Bekim Greicevci in Pristina at 
 bgreicevci@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  