-- Europe’s Austerity Push Breaks Mother’s Promise of Social Model
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-03-27T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/europe-s-austerity-push-breaks-mother-s-promise-of-social-model.html
Ester Artells’s mother told her
that if she worked hard she would go a long way.  Growing up in Reus in northern  Spain (IBEX) , Artells understood
that a good education would give her the career and lifestyle
her mother was denied by the military regime of General
Francisco Franco. The  economic slump  has forced the 35-year-old
biologist to move to France, putting a painful twist on the
parental advice she received in what’s now the heartland of
European unemployment.  “It was clear to me, as soon as I finished my thesis, I’d
be packing my bags,” said Artells, who found a research post at
the University of Aix-Marseille after completing her doctorate
last year. “For my mother, it’s very difficult. Everything
we’ve fought for since the dictatorship is being wrecked.”  Across Europe, parents who assumed the social model built
by governments since World War II would make each  generation 
better off than the last are watching the sovereign debt crisis
sweep away the promises they made to their children.  Greek teachers and state workers are witnessing the end of
the job for life and English students face U.S.-style tuition
fees, while the French have been forced to join other Europeans
in retiring later. In the background, politicians across the 27
 European Union members  are implementing austerity measures to
the tune of about 450 billion euros ($600 billion), according to
government announcements.  End of Road?  “Western European society cannot continue in the way it
has been,” said Gabriel Stein, a director at Lombard Street
Research Ltd., a company in  London  analyzing the economy. “We
have reached a limit to how much can realistically be done
through the public sector. It’s going to be very messy.”  Spain embodies the challenge governments and populations
must overcome to reconfigure Europe.  The Spanish government will slash investment spending by 40
percent when it sets this year’s budget on March 30, Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos told parliament this month. That will
make it tougher for up-and-coming scientists like Artells. The
country needs to trim about 55 billion euros from its  deficit  to
meet its target, according to Funcas, the savings banks’
foundation in Madrid.  Should de Guindos and his colleagues fail to deliver those
cuts, bond investors may shut off funding for  Spain  as they did
 Greece , forcing the government to seek a bailout from the EU and
threatening its membership of the single currency. The yield on
10-year government debt reached a 14-year high of 6.699 percent
in November before the  European Central Bank ’s long-term loans
flooded the banking system with more than 1 trillion euros.  Age Statistics  Artells’s generation is both the best-educated Spain has
produced and the hardest hit by the crisis.  Spaniards in their 20s and 30s have a high school
graduation rate of 86 percent, compared with 50 percent for
those in their 50s and 60s, according to data from the National
Statistics Institute.  Younger workers have suffered the most as the economy
staggered from recession to recession because they mainly had
temporary jobs while older workers were protected by cast-iron
contracts and lush pensions.  About 68 percent of young Spaniards are considering
emigrating,  an EU survey  showed last year.  “What can we say to parents who realize that for the first
time in history their children will be worse off than them? What
can we say?” Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said during a
speech in Seville last month.  Social Pressures  Unemployment among people under 25 was 50 percent at the
end of last year, according to Eurostat. Spain has the second-
highest rate in the world, according to the International Labor
Organization. Only  South Africa  is worse. The overall jobless
rate was 23 percent in Spain, the highest in the EU.  “You have some real issues when unemployment of young
people gets to the level of Spain, when you look at what changes
societies,” said Bill Dinning, investment strategist at Kames
Capital in Edinburgh. “If we can’t find some growth from
somewhere pretty quickly and start reversing this cyclical
downturn, then those social pressures are going to get worse.”  It’s a reversal from the late 1940s when European nations
emerging from six years of war laid the foundations of the
continent’s social model by introducing mechanisms to ensure
poorer members of society weren’t left behind as they rebuilt
their economies.  Pensions, Health  France  brought in state pensions in 1946, the U.K. set up
its free-to-use National Health Service in 1948 and West  Germany 
guaranteed unions a third of the seats on company boards in
1952. The Germans, French and Italians went on to form the
precursor to the EU in the early 1950s, while the Spanish and
Portuguese were living under dictatorships, the last remnants of
European fascism, and the military junta took over in Greece
following a 1967 coup.  Spain,  Portugal  and Greece returned to democracy in the
1970s, paving the way for them to join the European bloc over
the following decade. That brought them many of the same social
policies and eventually membership of the single currency around
the turn of the millennium.  The question of whether  Europe  can maintain that level of
protection for its citizens has split senior policymakers.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said in a Feb. 23 interview with
the Wall Street Journal that youth unemployment rates in
countries like Spain show that “the European social model has
already gone.” Danish Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt,
who holds the rotating EU presidency, disputed that view the
following day in a speech in  Washington .  International Rescues  “The fundamental goal is to ensure that the social market
economies of Europe can be sustained,” Thorning-Schmidt said.
“It is what sets Europe apart.”  Spain so far was spared the need for international bailouts
required by Portugal and Greece over the past two years. Like
its southern European peers, a surge in cheap credit during the
first years of the euro masked problems in the labor market and
the regulation of companies.  The Spanish economy, which raised income per capita six-
fold since the 1978 constitution, ran out of fuel in 2008 and
policymakers have failed to restart its engine since then. Gross
domestic product per capita last year was the same as in 2004
and public debt is set to double by 2013 from 40 percent of GDP
before the onslaught of the crisis.  “This country’s position in the world order is at stake
over the next few years,” said Rafael Domenech, chief economist
for developed countries at BBVA Research.  New Spain  The plight of people like Artells shows the mechanism that
passes knowledge and wealth from one generation to the next has
broken down in Spain. To stem the exodus of both talent and
capital, Rajoy like colleagues across Europe must rewire the
economy to make it easier for people to put their skills to
work, Draghi said.  Artells was born just after the death of Franco and she
grew up as Spain grew up. Her mother had only basic reading
skills and worked as a nanny and housekeeper.  Franco’s economy based on agriculture and tourism was
transformed by tighter trade links and subsidies funded by
Spain’s neighbors to the north following EU accession and
produced companies that rank among Europe’s biggest banks, phone
operators and construction companies.  Artells worked part-time to support herself through her
undergraduate degree and finished her doctoral thesis last July
after a 12-year academic journey. Her options in Spain consisted
of a job as a lab technician or a sales representative for a
pharmaceutical or chemical producer, she said.  French University  Instead, she got a research post in Marseille studying the
toxicity of nano-sized particles of titanium and cerium on the
environment. The particles are used in sunscreens, paints and
diesel fuel from where they leach into the sea and the air.  She earns more than she would for a similar position in
Spain, if she could even find one. And the cost of living is
much cheaper. She pays 850 euros a month in rent for a two-
bedroom apartment in the French city with a south-facing balcony
and a view of the mountains. It would cost at least twice that
in Barcelona, she said.  “I don’t know what happened,” Artells said in a March 13
interview by phone from the French port city. “I worked; I went
to university; I studied. And now if you want a job, you have to
take something totally unrelated to your qualifications, or you
have to go abroad. For what have they trained us so much?”  Since 2000, successive governments have emphasized the need
to boost Spain’s capacity in research and development to make
its companies more competitive. Former Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero aspired to create a “knowledge economy”
throughout his time in office beginning in 2004, encouraging
people like Artells to stay in education.  Skill Defections  The mistake was to spur the training of researchers before
the economy was ready to put them to work, BBVA’s Domenech said.  “That strategy wasn’t well designed,” he said in a March
13 interview at the bank’s  Madrid  headquarters.  Spain’s economy has less capacity to employ the most-
skilled workers because of its high proportion of small
companies, he said. About 28 percent of jobs in Spain were at
companies with fewer than 20 workers in 2006, according to BBVA
research. Germany had about 13 percent, while Greece, Portugal
and  Italy  had more than 30 percent.  Spain, like other countries in the euro area that are
struggling to grow, impeded the expansion of its companies with
rigid labor rules and costly regulation during the boom years,
Domenech said. The country is 44th on the  World Bank ’s Ease of
Doing Business ranking between Puerto Rico and  Rwanda .  Singapore 
is top, while the U.S. places fourth.  Brain Drain  “We need to prepare the foundations so that in four or
five years they can come back, with professional experience that
has been enriching,” Domenech said. “So even though in the
short term our human capital may decline, in the medium term it
may increase.”  It’s not just that brain drain that has set the clock
ticking for Rajoy as he pushes through the economic reforms that
he aims to bolster the economy. Bond investors are watching for
signs that the country won’t be able to generate the growth it
needs to place its government borrowing on a sustainable path.  Spain’s  borrowing costs  have eased since the ECB’s three-
year loans bolstered the continent’s banking system in December,
with the extra yield investors demand to hold the country’s 10-
year debt over German benchmarks falling to 344 basis points
from 468 on Nov. 22.  Economic Estimate  With the EU forecasting a 1.3 percent contraction for the
economy this year, the market tension may return and force Spain
to seek a direct bailout from the 750 billion-euro rescue fund
that EU leaders are negotiating, according to Megan Greene, head
of European economics at Roubini Global Economics in  New York .  The EU has enough firepower to keep Spain and Italy out of
the bond markets until 2015, Greene said. By then, Rajoy will
have to have figured out how to get the economy growing again.  “You don’t really get a second shot,” Greene said in a
March 12 telephone interview. “It’s a long road. It’s
questionable whether Spain can do it.”  Spain’s export performance suggests the country can turn
around the economy enough to pay back its debts and persuade its
best and brightest to return home, said  Gilles Moec , co-chief
European economist at Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG. Exports
have risen 12 percent since the crisis began in 2008,
outstripping the gain in German exports by 5 percentage points.  “This received wisdom that Spain wouldn’t be able to
benefit from any external traction has been proved quite
massively wrong,” Moec said in a March 14 telephone interview.
“The picture is probably not as bleak as we thought.”  International Experience  Should the reforms succeed in restarting the economy, Spain
may enjoy a boost in productivity by tapping the intellectual
capital that has been forced offshore by the slump, Domenech
said. And the returning workers will have added international
experience to their Spanish education.  The pull of family and friends is still strong for Artells.
She makes the 200-mile trip back to Catalonia every holiday and
suffers a twinge of home sickness when her friends send e-mails
to organize the traditional spring fiestas.  “We’re real family people in Spain,” she said. “I’m not
asking for a house with a pool and a 4x4, I just want to be able
to think about having a family.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  