-- European Stocks Drop After U.S. Consumer Confidence Data
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-03-27T16:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/european-stocks-advance-for-a-third-day-as-rbs-rallies.html
European stocks  declined for the
first time in three days, erasing an earlier advance, as
confidence among U.S. consumers dropped and shares of energy
companies retreated.  Total SA (FP)  plunged the most since 2008 as a North Sea
platform belonging to France’s largest oil producer leaked gas
for a third day.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  gained 3.3
percent as the U.K. government was said to have held talks to
sell part of its stake to Middle Eastern sovereign-wealth funds.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  retreated 0.5 percent to 266.92
at the close, after earlier advancing as much as 0.7 percent.
The benchmark measure has still  increased 9.2 percent this
quarter , its biggest rally in the first three months of a year
since 1998.  “Total is a heavyweight in the indexes, so it has a lot of
impact,” said Lionel Heurtin, a  fund manager  at Ofi Asset
Management in Paris, which oversees $67 billion. “The news
reminds us of BP, so it’s normal to be cautious.”  BP Plc reached an estimated $7.8 billion settlement this
month with businesses and individuals damaged in the 2010
Deepwater Horizon oil rig disaster that killed 11 people and led
to the world’s largest accidental spill.  National benchmark indexes fell in 13 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index slipped 0.6 percent,
while  France ’s CAC 40 Index declined 0.9 percent.  Germany ’s DAX
Index was unchanged.  U.S. Consumer Confidence  In the U.S., the Conference Board’s  consumer confidence 
index dropped to 70.2 in March from a revised reading of 71.6 in
February that was higher than initially reported. The  median
forecast of economists  surveyed by Bloomberg News had called for
a decrease to 70.  A separate release showed that  house prices in 20 U.S.
cities  dropped at a slower pace in January, indicating that the
real-estate market is stabilizing. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of
property values in 20 cities fell 3.8 percent from a year
earlier, matching the  median forecast  of 32 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  The Stoxx 600 advanced yesterday after German business
confidence unexpectedly climbed and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  said that the U.S. continued to need accommodative
monetary policy.  The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , which measures the cost of options on the
Euro Stoxx 50 Index, snapped two days of losses, rising 5
percent to 22.4 today. The volume of shares changing hands on
the Stoxx 600 was 1.5 percent higher than the 30-day average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Decisive Measure’  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said after
stock markets closed yesterday that euro-area governments should
continue to take “decisive measures.” The ECB has injected
more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) into the banking
system since December.  “No single institution can carry the burden of addressing
a set of challenges that are simultaneously economic, financial
and fiscal,” Draghi said in Berlin yesterday. “The current
stabilization should not make us pause in our responses.”  Finance ministers from the 17 nations using the euro meet
in Copenhagen on March 30.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
yesterday that Germany may let the euro’s temporary and
permanent rescue funds run in parallel.  Total fell 6 percent to 38.56 euros, its biggest decline
since December 2008, as the  oil company  assessed how to stop a
leak from its Elgin platform in the U.K. North Sea. The rig
supplied more than 1 percent of the U.K.’s gas last year,
according to the Department of Energy and Climate Change.  PZ Cussons, Hochtief  PZ Cussons Plc (PZC)  sank 9.8 percent to 301.3 pence, the largest
drop on the  Stoxx 600 (SXXP) , after the company said that continuing
tension in Nigeria will result in “the group’s overall
performance being some way below expectations. Brokers from
Numis Securities to Shore Capital downgraded the shares.  Hochtief AG (HOT) ,  Germany’s largest construction company , slid
5.3 percent to 50.27 euros as trading in its Australian
subsidiary Leighton was halted before a quarterly review.  Nutreco NV (NUO)  dropped 6.5 percent to 53.89 euros after peer
Marine Harvest ASA said it may produce 500,000 tons of salmon
feed a year. Feed costs account for 50 percent of expenses for
salmon farming.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the world’s largest wind-turbine
maker, slid 4.6 percent to 58.15 kroner. Suzlon Energy Ltd. beat
the Danish company to a contract to supply 54 six-megawatt
turbines to PNE Wind AG’s Gode Wind I project.  ‘‘I had expected Vestas would have landed this project, so
it’s a shame for the company,”  Jacob Pedersen , an analyst with
Aabenraa, Denmark-based Sydbank A/S, said by phone.  RBS Shares Rally  RBS advanced 3.3 percent to 28.67 pence as two people
familiar with the matter said that the U.K. government has held
talks about selling part of  its stake in the lender . The U.K.
Treasury said that it will only sell the government’s holding
when it obtains maximum value for taxpayers.  “The aim is to repair and return RBS to full health so
that it is able to support the U.K. economy in the future, and
the current strategy is working to achieve that,” the Treasury
in  London  said in an e-mailed statement. “The government’s
policy has always been to return RBS to the private sector, but
only when it delivers value for money for the taxpayer.”  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  added 2.2 percent to 10.70 euros.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised its recommendation on the company to
overweight from neutral, meaning that investors should own a
larger proportion of the shares than are represented in
benchmark indexes.  Kazakhmys, Finmeccanica  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ) , Kazakhstan’s biggest copper producer, rose
2.1 percent to 944.5 pence after saying that earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, excluding
special items, rose 3.2 percent to $2.93 billion in 2011. The
company also posted a decline in profit for the year.  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , an Italian planemaker, climbed 11 percent
to 3.85 euros for the biggest rally on the  Stoxx 600 (SXXP) . Hitachi
Ltd. has held advanced talks with Finmeccanica to buy 50 percent
of AnsaldoBreda SpA and 29 percent of Ansaldo STS SpA,  Il Sole
24 Ore  said. Finmeccanica is scheduled to report its earnings
tonight.  Accor SA (AC) ,  Europe’s biggest hotel company , advanced 3.7
percent to 26.82 euros. The stock was raised to buy from hold at
Societe Generale SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  