-- Ex-AgBank Branch Head Fled With $16 Million of Loans, Police Say
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-27T03:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/ex-agbank-branch-head-fled-with-16-million-of-loans-police-say.html
A former head of  Agricultural Bank
of China Ltd. (601288) ’s branch in eastern Jiangsu province fled the
country with more than 100 million yuan ($16 million)
“fraudulently borrowed from relatives,” according to police.  Authorities are seeking to arrest the suspect, who was only
identified by the surname Sun, after he left the country with
family members on Dec. 28, the Wuxi public security bureau said
in a statement posted to its Website on March 25. Sun led the
bank’s Yaosai branch in the coastal city of Jiangyin, the bureau
said on its website. Jiangsu province is located about 90 miles
(145 kilometers) from  Shanghai .  The  China Daily   reported  today Sun Feng, former head of the
branch, and his family went to  Thailand  in December and later
disappeared, citing Cai Wenyu, deputy director of the publicity
department of Wuxi. Police believe they might have gone to
 Canada , the paper said. Calls to the Wuxi government press
office and Jiangyin press offices weren’t answered.  Sun fled after he incurred losses in futures trading last
year and was unable to pay back money borrowed from local
individuals and businesses, the China Daily said, citing a
report from Chinese-language newspaper Legal Daily.  A press officer at Beijing-based Agricultural Bank said
today an internal investigation found no loss for the nation’s
third-largest lender.  Standard Chartered Plc. (STAN)  said on March 15 its private-bank
relationship manager Wu Yidian Eden, a Singaporean citizen, was
detained by police in the city of Wuxi. Chinese authorities are
investigating an unidentified client of Wu who allegedly fled
with as much as $50 million from Agricultural Bank, the Wall
Street Journal reported that day.  The Agricultural Bank press officer today declined to
comment on whether the two cases are connected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bloomberg News in Bloomberg at 
 emailtv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  