-- Export Ban on U.S. Oil Pushed by Democrats as Prices Soar
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-03-27T15:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/export-ban-on-u-s-oil-pushed-by-democrats-as-prices-soar-1-.html
Congressional Democrats are pushing
to ban exports of American oil in an attempt to limit energy
cost increases.  Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat,
said today he plans to introduce a bill this week in the
Republican-led House banning export of any oil that is produced
from or that is transported across U.S. public lands.  Past efforts to pass similar legislation have failed.
Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, tried to ban exports of
refined products derived from crude carried by the  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline. His amendment, offered as part of
the transportation bill, failed to get enough support during a
March 8 vote.  “This is American oil and it should benefit American
consumers, not just Big Oil’s bottom line,” Markey said during
a House Natural Resources Committee hearing in Washington today.
“The  oil companies  and their Republican allies in Congress talk
about drilling for more American energy, but their plan is
really about more American energy exports.”  Crude oil and gasoline price jumps caused Republicans
including Representative Doc Hastings from Washington, chairman
of the House Natural Resources Committee, to urge President
Barack Obama to allow oil exploration off the coast of Virginia
and Florida, and let TransCanada build the Keystone pipeline
from  Canada  to refineries on the U.S. Gulf of Mexico.  “The Keystone pipeline would set up the United States as a
conduit to send Canadian oil to a foreign trade zone,” Markey
said.  Oil advanced more than 8 percent this year, and the average
price for unleaded gasoline at the pump climbed about 19 percent
to $3.90 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.  -- Editors: Jon Morgan, Steve Geimann  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  