-- MF Global Treasurer Goes From Back Office to Hot Seat
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-03-28T15:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/mf-global-treasurer-goes-from-back-office-to-hot-seat.html
Edith O’Brien, the Chicago-based
treasurer of  MF Global Holdings Ltd.’s (MF)  broker-dealer, was pulled
from back-office obscurity onto center stage last year in
testimony to Congress by former chief executive Jon S. Corzine.  Today, having become a key figure in the brokerage’s messy
denouement, she faces lawmakers directly for the first time.  O’Brien was identified by Corzine several times as an
employee with knowledge of transfers that may have included
customer funds in what he called the “chaotic” days before the
New York firm sought Chapter 11 protection Oct. 31, becoming the
eighth-largest bankruptcy in U.S. history. With $1.6 billion in
customer money still missing, lawmakers are looking to her to
provide details that have proven elusive.  “I’m hopeful that Mrs. O’Brien will shed some light on the
last days and hours of  MF Global (MFGLQ) ,” Representative  Randy Neugebauer , chairman of the Financial Services oversight and
investigations subcommittee, said yesterday in an interview.
O’Brien, unlike the other witnesses set to testify, didn’t
submit a statement to the panel in advance of the hearing.  Today’s session will be the panel’s third hearing on MF
Global’s final days, when company executives discovered a nearly
$1 billion deficit in customer segregated funds. The bankruptcy
trustee overseeing liquidation of the firm’s brokerage unit has
estimated the total shortfall between customer claims and assets
available at $1.6 billion.  Neugebauer, a Texas Republican, said he is looking to find
out when and how the firm first dipped into customer funds.  ‘Upside-Down’  “To get $1 billion upside-down, that’s a pretty good size
of money,” he said. “So we’re all trying to figure how long
that had been going on and when it started.”  Attention on O’Brien heightened after the March 23 release
of a  memo  drafted by congressional staff. The memo cites an e-
mail from O’Brien noting that a transfer made in the days before
the firm’s bankruptcy was done “Per JC’s [ Jon Corzine ’s] direct
instructions.”  Committee staff, in a second memo circulated yesterday,
said that it remains unclear how much Corzine knew when the
transfer was made. “When Mr. Corzine allegedly directed MF
Global employees to move $175 million to cover the overdraft, he
may or may not have known the source of funds,” the second memo
said.  The account could have contained both client and company
funds, the memo noted. Whether the transferred funds were those
of the company, its clients or both isn’t known.  ‘Never Intended’  A spokesman for Corzine, Steven Goldberg, said last week
that the former MF Global CEO “never gave any instruction to
misuse customer funds and never intended anyone at MF Global to
misuse customer funds.”  Lawmakers said they remain uncertain what, if anything,
O’Brien will say when she appears before the committee. She
declined an invitation to testify, forcing the subcommittee to
subpoena her last week.  Reid Weingarten , O’Brien’s lawyer,
didn’t respond to a call or e-mail requesting comment.  “A lot of folks thought Mr. Corzine wouldn’t testify and
he did,” Neugebauer said, adding that it’s not clear whether
O’Brien will be a cooperative witness. “There’s some
anticipation of whether she will or she won’t be, but we will
not know that for sure until Wednesday.”  Christine Serwinski, chief financial officer of the firm’s
North American broker-dealer, first learned on Oct. 27 that
there was a “substantial deficit” the previous day in funds
kept in segregated accounts including customer money, according
to  testimony  prepared for the hearing.  Intraday Loan  The deficit stemmed from an intraday loan to the securities
brokerage arm from the futures broker and wasn’t repaid by the
close of business, she said. The segregation report for Oct. 27
showed that the funds had returned to a positive level, “which
I believed at the time reflected the return of the borrowed
funds, as promised,” she said.  Serwinski said that on Oct. 30 she was “still operating
under the belief that there must have been an accounting error
because such a large deficit was simply inconceivable to me.”
She said she didn’t realize the shortfall was real until the
morning of Oct. 31, hours before the firm filed for bankruptcy.  It was at that point, according to the congressional memo,
that O’Brien approached Serwinski with a document outlining a
shortfall of nearly $1 billion as a result of three different
groups of transactions. Among those transactions was a $175
million transfer to MF Global’s London office, the memo says.  Two-Stage Transfer  Another MF Global executive, General Counsel Laurie Ferber,
will draw attention to the two-stage transfer referred to in the
congressional memo -- first, a $200 million transfer from a
segregated account at the firm’s brokerage to a “house”
account, followed by the move of $175 million from the house
account to a London subsidiary’s account at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The transfers drew the interest of JPMorgan during final
week, Ferber said in  testimony  prepared for the hearing.  JPMorgan, by mid-afternoon of Oct. 28, contacted Corzine to
request confirmation in writing that the transferred money was
made up only of the firm’s funds, Diane Genova, a deputy general
counsel for the bank, said in her prepared remarks.  “Mr. Corzine said he understood the request and would have
someone in his organization review it,” Genova said. The bank
then “e-mailed a proposed draft letter to Mr. Corzine.”  Resisted Efforts  Ferber said she resisted the bank’s efforts to obtain a
letter assuring that the firm was complying with rules to
segregate customers’ collateral, saying the language in drafts
provided by JPMorgan were too broad.  “I then spoke to the person in  Chicago  whom JPMorgan
identified in the certificate and was given the understanding
that she would sign the certificate if it were limited to the
two transactions the bank had expressed interest in,” she said.
Ferber didn’t identify the individual in Chicago.  At one point, Barry Zubrow, JPMorgan’s chief risk officer,
personally called Corzine to seek assurances that the funds
belonged to MF Global, according to the House memo.  Corzine, 64, told lawmakers last year the firm’s back-
office staff had “explicitly” informed him that the $175
million transfer made before the bankruptcy filing was legal.  “I never gave any instruction to misuse customer funds, I
never intended anyone at MF Global to misuse customer funds and
I don’t believe that anything I said could reasonably have been
interpreted as an instruction to misuse customer funds,”
Corzine told lawmakers in December.  JPMorgan dealt with Ferber and Dennis Klejna, MF Global’s
deputy general counsel, on Oct. 28 and Oct. 29 as the bank
sought to secure the letter. On Oct. 28, Klejna told JPMorgan
the transfer complied with federal rules and “represented
excess funds belonging to MF Global,” Genova said.  Klejna to Cooperate  Klejna “intends to fully cooperate with the government
investigation of MF Global and feels it would be premature to
respond to any press inquiries at this time,” Helen Kim,
Klejna’s lawyer and a partner at  Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP (1161L) ,
said in an e-mail.  The next afternoon, Ferber told the firm the transfer
“represented a withdrawal of MF Global’s own funds held in a
customer segregated account, and that we therefore did not need
to be concerned,” Genova said. After “some further
discussion,” Ferber told JPMorgan’s representatives she would
arrange to get a revised letter signed, Genova said.  After rejecting the first two drafts of the JPMorgan
letter, Ferber said a third draft focused specifically on the
two transfers was “in satisfactory form.” She then turned the
matter over to a colleague and doesn’t recall further
involvement, she said in her prepared remarks.  The letter was never returned to JPMorgan, according to
Genova.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  