-- MF Global Counsel Resisted Giving Assurances on Transfers
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-03-27T16:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/mf-global-s-counsel-resisted-giving-assurances-on-transfers.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  General
Counsel Laurie Ferber twice resisted providing assurances to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  that the company was complying with rules
to segregate customers’ collateral, saying language in a draft
provided by the bank was too broad.  JPMorgan was “specifically interested in two transfers”
that occurred the morning of Oct. 28, Ferber said in testimony
prepared for a House Financial Services subcommittee hearing
tomorrow. The first was a $200 million transfer from a
segregated account at the firm’s brokerage to a “house”
account, followed by a move of $175 million from the house
account to a London subsidiary’s account at JPMorgan, she said.  “Although I had no reason to believe that any non-
compliant transfers from segregated accounts had occurred or
would occur, I did not think that any individual officer or
employee should be asked to issue such a broad certificate,”
Ferber said in in her testimony. Any employee making such an
assurance would have had to personally handle all the transfers
or been able to review all the transactions within the available
timeframe, she said.  Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican who
leads the Financial Services investigations subcommittee, will
hold its third hearing on events leading to MF Global’s Oct. 31
bankruptcy, a collapse that left a customer funds shortfall
estimated at $1.6 billion.  Treasurer to Testify  Among those set to testify this week is Edith O’Brien, a
Chicago-based  MF Global (MFGLQ)  executive identified by former Chief
Executive Officer Jon S. Corzine as having knowledge of fund
transfers from customer accounts. She was subpoenaed by the
subcommittee after turning down a request to appear.  Ferber’s prepared remarks address transfers that have come
under question in the wake of a Financial Services Committee
staff memo circulated to lawmakers last week.  “On the afternoon of Friday, October 28, MF Global
transferred $200 million from a segregated customer account at
JPMC to cover a $175 million overdraft in one of MF Global’s
JPMC accounts in  London ,” according to the five-page memo.
“Ms. O’Brien wrote in an e-mail that the transfer was ‘Per JC’s
[ Jon Corzine ’s] direct instructions’.”  Barry Zubrow, JPMorgan’s chief risk officer, called Corzine
to seek assurances that the funds belonged to MF Global and not
customers. JPMorgan drafted a letter to be signed by O’Brien to
ensure that MF Global was complying with the rules, according to
the memo.  Narrower Language  In her testimony, Ferber said she spoke to officials at the
bank on Oct. 28 and requested that they narrow the language.  “I then spoke to the person in Chicago whom JPMorgan
identified in the certificate and was given the understanding
that she would sign the certificate if it were limited to the
two transactions the bank had expressed interest in,” she said.  Ferber doesn’t identify the individual in  Chicago . She
conferred a second time with JPMorgan, which complied with the
request and provided a new draft with narrower language the next
day. Ferber turned the revised draft over to a colleague and
wasn’t involved in discussions after that point, she said.  The letter was never signed, according to the House memo.  Christine Serwinski, chief financial officer of the firm’s
North American broker-dealer, said she first learned on Oct. 27
that there was a “substantial deficit” as of the previous day
in funds kept in segregated accounts including customer money,
according to testimony prepared for the hearing.  Overnight Deficit  “Even though the regulations would allow it, I was not
comfortable with the firm putting customer funds at risk even
just overnight in that manner,” Serwinski said in the
testimony.  The deficit stemmed from an intra-day loan to the
securities brokerage arm from the futures broker and wasn’t
repaid by the close of business, she said. The segregation
report for Oct. 27 showed that the funds had returned to a
positive level, “which I believed at the time reflected the
return of the borrowed funds, as promised,” she said.  Serwinski said that on Oct. 29 she was told that the firm
was under-segregated because of “reconciliation errors” in
accounts rather an actual shortfall involving customer funds.
The next day she was told that the under-segregated funds
amounted to $1 billion.  ‘Inconceivable’ Deficit  Serwinski said that on Oct. 30 she was “still operating
under the belief that there must have been an accounting error
because such a large deficit was simply inconceivable to me.”
She said she didn’t realize the shortfall was real until the
early morning of Oct. 31, hours before the company filed for
bankruptcy.  Diane M. Genova, JPMorgan’s deputy general counsel, is
scheduled to testify on the bank’s role during MF Global’s final
days. Daniel J. Roth, the president and chief executive officer
of the  National Futures Association , and Susan M. Cosper, the
technical director of the  Financial Accounting Standards Board ,
are also scheduled to testify.  MF Global and its brokerage sought Chapter 11 bankruptcy on
Oct. 31 after a $6.3 billion bet on the bonds of some of
 Europe ’s most indebted nations prompted regulator concerns and
credit rating downgrades. Corzine quit MF Global Nov. 4.  A spokesman for Corzine, Steven Goldberg, said last week
that the former MF Global CEO “never gave any instruction to
misuse customer funds and never intended anyone at MF Global to
misuse customer funds.”  Steenkamp, in his testimony, said he had “limited
knowledge” of the movement of segregated customer funds in the
final days before the firm’s failure. Steenkamp said he
understood that lawmakers would have questions about the missing
funds.  “I share many of these questions and I am personally
extremely frustrated and distressed that they remain outstanding
and the client funds have not been paid in full,” Steenkamp
said in his prepared remarks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  