-- Facebook Says Negative Outcome of Yahoo Suit May Be Material
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-03-27T22:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/facebook-says-negative-outcome-of-yahoo-suit-could-be-material.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , the social-
networking service that’s planning an initial public offering,
said a patent dispute with  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  (YHOO) could have a material
impact on its business.  Yahoo (YHOO)  sued Facebook on March 12, alleging that the site
infringes Yahoo patents related to advertising, social
networking, privacy, customization and messaging, Facebook said
today in  a filing . The  Menlo Park , California-based company said
it hasn’t yet issued a response to the lawsuit.  “This litigation is still in its early stages,” Facebook
said in the filing. “If an unfavorable outcome were to occur in
this litigation, the impact could be material to our business,
financial condition or results of operations.”  Facebook, the world’s most popular social-networking
service, is grappling with more lawsuits over intellectual
property. The company, which had about 60 U.S. patents at the
end of last year, is aiming to defend itself by bolstering its
portfolio. Facebook acquired 750 patents from  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , a person familiar with the matter said
earlier this month.  Yahoo (YHOO) , the largest U.S. Web portal, has demanded that
Facebook license its technology, saying that other companies
have done so. In the complaint, Yahoo asked for an order barring
Facebook from infringing 10 patents and for triple damages. At
the time, Facebook said it was “disappointed” in the lawsuit
and would defend itself against “these puzzling actions.”  IPO Plan  Facebook plans to raise $5 billion in its IPO, making it
the biggest Internet offering on record. The company, which had
almost $4 billion in revenue last year, could have a valuation
of $75 billion to $100 billion, according to people with
knowledge of the situation.  The  company  is benefiting from users spending more time on
the site. The total minutes per day by all users increased 57
percent in January from the year-earlier period, Facebook said
in the filing. The average number of daily minutes per member
increased 14 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  