-- FDA Targets ‘Cosmeceuticals’ Straddling Regulatory Lines
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-03-27T14:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/fda-targets-cosmeceuticals-straddling-regulatory-lines.html
Wrinkle creams with retinol and a
growing crop of beauty treatments that are partly pharmaceutical
may need to be regulated as drugs, the top U.S. official
overseeing the cosmetics industry said.  The industry calls them “cosmeceuticals,” a term that
doesn’t exist in regulation,Michael Landa, director of the  Food
and Drug Administration ’s Center for Food Safety and Applied
Nutrition, said in testimony prepared for a House subcommittee
hearing today. The claims companies make that the products
contain active ingredients may classify them as drugs, he said.  Retinol and peptides weren’t listed as ingredients in any
cosmetics before 2005, Landa said in his written  remarks  to the
House Energy and Commerce health subcommittee. Retinol is now
registered in 200 items, while peptides are listed in 1,200
product statements voluntarily submitted to the FDA, he said.  “The category of products that straddles the line between
cosmetics and drugs” presents new regulatory challenges, Landa
said. “The use of such ingredients is increasing and we expect
this trend to continue.”  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Roc Retinol Correxion anti-wrinkle
cream is among products that include retinol, while  L’Oreal SA (OR) ’s
skin replenishing Age Perfect line contains peptides.  Some cosmetics are classified as a drug depending on the
claims they make, Lisa Powers, a spokeswoman for the  Personal
Care Products Council , the main Washington lobbying group for
cosmetic companies, said in an e-mail. Products that claim
beautification are a cosmetic, while those that alter the body’s
structure or function are classified as a drug, she said.  Products that make both claims are regulated as over-the-
counter drugs, such as a hydrating lipstick that also contains a
sunscreen, Powers said.  James Freeman, a spokesman for  New Brunswick , New Jersey-
based J&J, and Pam Alabaster, a spokeswoman for Paris-based
L’Oreal, didn’t return requests for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Romaine Bostick at 
 rbostick@bloomberg.net  