-- FHA Bailout Risk Looming After Guarantees: Mortgages
-- B y   B o b   I v r y
-- 2012-03-28T22:52:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/fha-bailout-risk-looming-larger-after-guarantee-binge-mortgages.html
(Corrects forecasted decline of home-price index in third
paragraph of story published March 27 and clarifies that Moody’s
Analytics has no position on FHA’s solvency.)  The  Federal Housing Administration 
won’t be able to earn its way to financial health this year,
increasing the chance it will need a taxpayer bailout, based on
an updated forecast from Moody’s Analytics, which provides the
agency’s housing-market analysis.  The U.S. government mortgage-insurer, which guarantees $1.1
trillion in home loans, had been counting on “robust growth”
in home prices to help rebuild its insurance fund after paying
out $37 billion to cover defaults the past three years,
according to its annual  report  to Congress, filed in November.  It won’t get that growth until 2014, according to the
latest outlook from Moody’s Analytics. One measure of the
market, the S&P Case-Shiller Home Price Index, will decline 2
percent in fiscal 2012, said  Celia Chen , a Moody’s Analytics
housing economist who updated her estimate after providing the
housing-market forecast for the FHA’s annual  actuarial report .
Moody’s Analytics hasn’t taken a position on the FHA’s future
solvency, said  Mark Zandi , the company’s chief economist, in an
e-mail.  “The FHA’s economic projections are surreal,” said Andrew Caplin, a New York University economics professor who has
testified to Congress on the agency’s finances. “They must
believe there will be very few readers in Congress able to
critically review such a complex report.”  Actuaries’ Projections  In their annual review, the FHA’s actuaries -- risk
analysts who specialize in insurance -- used earlier projections
that called for increases of 1.2 percent in 2012 and 3.8 percent
in 2013. The agency, which backs mortgages that cover as much as
96.5 percent of a home’s value, is sensitive to changes in  home
prices . While the insurance fund’s 2012 outlook called for net
growth of about $9 billion, that will drop if home prices
decline, according to the FHA’s November report.  By law, the fund is supposed to hold 2 percent of its
portfolio in reserve; as of Sept. 30, it held only 0.24 percent,
or $2.6 billion, according to the report.  While the FHA issues an annual report and hasn’t updated
its outlook since the new Moody’s forecast, Carol J. Galante,
the acting FHA commissioner, says there’s no indication that
home prices will fall to a level where the agency would need
help from the  U.S. Treasury .  “The independent actuaries rely on the best available data
that most closely reflects our portfolio to estimate how the
market will behave in the future,” Galante said in a statement
yesterday. “All things considered, we’re doing everything we
can to remain in positive territory and to avoid needing
additional support from the Treasury.”  Deeper Than Predicted  Losses will be deeper than the FHA predicts, in part
because the agency uses a home- price index  that excludes
distressed sales, Caplin said. Distressed sales, which refer to
sales at prices lower than what borrowers owe on their
mortgages, will make up 40 percent of transactions this year,
Chen said. Excluding them produces a rosier forecast on sale
prices and may mean the agency is underestimating potential
claims, Caplin said.  “They can’t even track their data correctly,” Caplin said
in an interview. “Not knowing how to measure the performance of
your borrowers is tragic and profoundly wrong.”  White House Plan  The White House submitted a budget plan to Congress this
year that would have provided the FHA as much as $688 million
from the U.S. Treasury, the first bailout in the agency’s 78-
year history. The money wasn’t needed because the FHA will get
almost $1 billion from the government’s $26 billion settlement
with the five biggest U.S. mortgage servicers over alleged
foreclosure abuses, according to Shaun Donovan, secretary of the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, which oversees
the FHA. Mortgage servicers collect monthly payments and manage
the foreclosure process.  As the FHA tripled its home-loan insurance to $1.1 trillion
since 2007, defaults and expected defaults drained its cash
reserve below the 2 percent legal threshold the last three
years. The reserve is a cushion to offset possible future losses
and is held in addition to $29 billion the agency has set aside
to pay expected claims.  Caplin and others say the FHA’s plan to grow out of its
cash squeeze amid rising property values won’t work. Taxpayers
will be on the hook for between $50 billion and $100 billion
“over many years,” says Joe Gyourko of the  University of
Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School.  Improved Credit Quality  FHA officials dispute that conclusion, and note that
they’ve taken steps to improve the credit quality of borrowers
and to increase premiums and fees. The agency’s role in U.S.
housing grew as private mortgage insurers retreated after the
credit contraction of 2008. The FHA, created in 1934 to help
low- and moderate-income people buy homes and to stabilize
credit markets,  insured  30 percent of U.S. house purchases last
year, up from 4.5 percent in 2006. It charges lenders and
borrowers a fee to guarantee that mortgages will be paid.  “To be clear, FHA is not broke,” Galante told a House
Financial Services subcommittee hearing on Feb. 28.  To help bring in more money, the FHA will increase the
premiums it charges most borrowers by 0.10 percentage points,
starting April 9. For borrowers with homes worth more than
$625,500, the hike will be an additional 0.25 percentage points,
as of June 11. Upfront fees will also rise, to 1.75 percent of
the loan from 1 percent, effective April 9.  Rate Reductions  President  Barack Obama  said Feb. 1 he wants to reduce rates
on FHA refinancings for about 3.4 million eligible FHA
homeowners. Their upfront fee would drop to 0.01 percent from
about 0.55 percent and their annual premiums would be cut to
0.55 percent from 1.2 percent.  The net effect of the hikes and proposed discounts would
add a total of $1 billion to FHA receipts in fiscal years 2012
and 2013, Galante  told  a Senate subcommittee March 8.  The agency’s reserve fund -- the amount held back after
making provision for expected claims -- declined from 0.53
percent of its total portfolio in 2009, to 0.5 percent in 2010
and 0.24 percent last year. For single-family mortgages, which
make up 94 percent of the portfolio, the 2011 reserve was just
0.12 percent.  “The FHA clearly didn’t allocate enough capital to the
loans it insured from 2007 to 2010,” said Morris A. Davis, a
professor of real estate and urban land economics at the
University of Wisconsin-Madison’s School of Business.  Expected Claims  Apart from the reserve account, the FHA had budgeted $29
billion for expected claims at the end of fiscal 2011, about
$900 million less than the agency will need, according to its
actuary’s estimates. The FHA said in November it wouldn’t set
aside the additional $900 million, an action that would have
reduced its capital reserve further.  Over the last three years, the agency paid out $37 billion
in claims -- more than it expected and more than double the
preceding three years -- and “has not yet seen the peak of
claim expenses,” which could come this year, according to the
annual report.  Property values are important to the FHA insurance fund.
Negative equity -- homeowners owing more on their mortgages than
their houses are worth -- is one of the most important triggers
of defaults, Gyourko wrote in a November 2011  paper , “Is FHA
the Next Housing Bailout?” published by the  American Enterprise
Institute , a  Washington  think tank that advocates for limited
government.  Tax Credit  The FHA will lose at least $10 billion more than it
projects on 2009 and 2010 loans to first-time homebuyers who
also took advantage of an $8,000 tax credit, Gyourko says. The
credit was offered as part of Obama’s $787 billion economic
stimulus package.  Gyourko called the credit a form of down-payment
assistance, and noted that borrowers who receive such assistance
are more likely to quit paying their mortgages.  Raphael Bostic, HUD’s assistant secretary for policy
development and research, called Gyourko’s assessment
“completely false and irresponsible” in the agency’s blog,  The
HUDdle . About 1 million first-time buyers used FHA insurance
during the 13 months the tax credit was available, and their
“failure rate” is less than 1 percent, he wrote.  The FHA was more accepting of arguments raised by Caplin
and others, who say its actuary wasn’t correctly estimating risk
for so-called streamline refinancing. The program moves
borrowers from one FHA loan to another and doesn’t require
updated property appraisals.  Negative Equity  Caplin and six other researchers estimated that as many as
71 percent of FHA borrowers who streamline-refinanced in Los
Angeles County,  California , in 2009 owed more than their houses
were worth, according to a February 2010  paper . Using the FHA
actuary’s methodology, only 1.5 percent of the streamline
refinanced borrowers would have had negative equity, Caplin
said.  For its 2011 estimates, the FHA’s actuary,  Integrated
Financial Engineering Inc.  of Rockville,  Maryland , changed its
approach to try to capture home values after the refinancings,
said Barry Dennis, the firm’s president. The change was one of
several that increased the insurance fund’s potential payouts as
of Sept. 30 by about $6 billion.  “Some borrowers have streamline-refinanced 10 times,”
Dennis said.  Not Far Enough  Caplin said the change didn’t go far enough. The actuary
counts each refinancing as a “successfully terminated
mortgage,” he said. If a borrower refinances three times, the
FHA counts that as three successful payoffs, Caplin said. That
makes the agency’s performance look better -- and that history
helps shape estimates of future losses, he said.  “The refinance is just a rate reduction, it’s not a
successfully terminated mortgage,” Caplin said. “Ask yourself
if we’re creating sustainable  homeownership . How many borrowers
are ending their reliance on FHA?”  Dennis said his firm’s approach uses FHA performance data
to determine whether loans have had trouble in the past. While a
refinancing removes risk from one year’s projections -- the year
in which the original loan was made -- it adds risk in the year
of the new loan, he said.  “It’s the same risk in the portfolio; it’s just in a
different year,” Dennis said. “We’ve continued to improve our
modeling.”  Gauging the Market  Caplin, Gyourko and others also question how the FHA gauges
the condition of the housing market. The agency uses the Federal
Housing Finance Agency index, which shows that home prices have
declined 15 percent from a March 2007 peak. Another measure, the
Case-Shiller index, shows that values have  declined  34 percent
since a July 2006 peak.  The FHFA index is more appropriate because the properties
it tracks tend to be in the same geographic areas where the FHA
insures mortgages, according to the agency’s annual report to
Congress. Also, it said the Case-Shiller index “includes
concentrations of properties subjected to subprime loans, and
those sold in distress sales,” which aren’t in the FHFA index.  Distressed sales tend to drive down home prices. Using the
FHFA index “is just one of the many choices FHA makes that are
completely unjustified and that coincidentally make the
situation appear better than it is,” Caplin said in an
interview.  Integrated Financial Engineering’s Dennis said he
“wouldn’t argue that the FHFA index is perfect.”  “Some have suggested that the FHA use an FHA-specific
home-price index,” he said.  One change in the FHA’s approach this year may help improve
the quality of its mortgages. It will spend more time and money
checking for potential wrongdoing by mortgage originators, said
Helen R. Kanovsky, HUD’s general counsel.  ‘Limited Resources’  Until recently, FHA officials chose to direct their
“limited resources” to examining loan servicing rather than
loan origination, Kanovsky said. In general, the agency trusts
lenders to certify the quality of mortgages it guarantees and to
report paperwork flaws or possible fraud.  On Feb. 9,  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America
Corp.  agreed to pay $1 billion to  settle claims  it failed to do
so, while on Feb. 15  Citigroup Inc. (C)  admitted it certified loans
for FHA insurance that didn’t qualify and will forfeit $158
million. Some of that money will compensate the FHA for claims
it paid for defaulted home loans certified by Citigroup and Bank
of America’s Countrywide mortgage unit.  The FHA can negotiate indemnification agreements in which
the loan originator reimburses the agency for losses to its
insurance fund. It typically requests indemnifications after a
loan goes bad or when there are basic underwriting problems with
the mortgage, such as missing paperwork or fraud.  Over the last seven years, the agency has averaged 1,282
indemnification agreements a year out of an annual average of
993,355 total loans guaranteed -- a little more than 0.1
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Ivry in  New York  at 
 bivry@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net . 