-- Fisher Says Fed Has Done Its Job While U.S. Congress Hasn’t
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-03-27T20:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/fisher-says-fed-has-done-its-job-while-u-s-congress-hasn-t.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said the U.S. central bank has “done
its job” to provide liquidity when it was needed and that the
economy now needs Congress to indicate a clearer plan for taxes
and spending.  “We have had generations of congressmen, congresswomen and
senators who have not done their job,” Fisher said in a speech
in Choudrant, Louisiana today. Businesses “are not going to
hire until we have an outlook for what it’s going to take to run
their business.”  Fisher has repeatedly argued that more stimulus from the
Fed can’t solve the uncertainty over fiscal policy that’s
holding back the U.S. recovery, calling the prospect of another
round of asset purchases “a fantasy of  Wall Street .” The
policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  this month noted
improvements in the labor market while still warning of
“significant downside risks.”  “On balance, the data indicate improving growth prospects
for 2012,” Fisher said at a community forum sponsored by the
Dallas Fed.  The district bank chief added that the central bank had
“let its guard down” in the years leading up to the 2008
financial crisis by maintaining easy policy for too long.  “Keeping  interest rates  too low too long led to
speculative activity because people reach for yield,” he said
in response to a question from the audience. “The Federal
Reserve let its guard down and became too complacent.”  Long-Term Rates  Fisher, who isn’t a voting member of the FOMC this year,
dissented twice last year against moves to push down long-term
 rates  and to keep the benchmark borrowing cost near zero until
at least mid-2013.  “I am personally not arguing at the table or publicly that
we should be tightening right now,” Fisher told reporters after
his speech today. “Before you tighten you have to stop
accommodating and I don’t believe we need further
accommodation.”  The district bank chief said higher gasoline prices are
being offset by declines in prices for natural gas and other
commodities.  “We haven’t seen it really pinch yet in terms of retail
sales or final demand,” Fisher said of gasoline prices. “You
reach a point where shoppers consolidate their trips to the Wal-
Mart or mall or whatever and I don’t hear retailers raising the
alarm yet like it did last time gas was $4.’  The average price for unleaded gasoline at the pump climbed
to almost $3.90 a gallon yesterday according to data from AAA,
the country’s largest automotive group.  Fisher, 63, has been president of the Dallas Fed since
2005. His district includes  Texas , northern Louisiana and
southern  New Mexico .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  