-- Fracking Boom Has U.S. Cutting Climate Warming Emissions
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-03-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/fracking-boom-has-u-s-cutting-climate-warming-emissions.html
The boom in American natural-gas
production is doing what international negotiations and
legislation couldn’t: reducing U.S. carbon-dioxide pollution.  With decade-low prices, natural gas is easing out coal in
power generation, a change that cuts  greenhouse gases  by half at
the smokestack. That shift, combined with state programs to
encourage renewable energy and new rules from the Environmental
Protection Agency that could come as early as today, has put the
country on course to cut domestic greenhouse-gas emissions 12
percent by 2020, on par with what the failed cap-and-trade
legislation aimed to achieve, said Dallas Burtraw, a fellow at
Resources for the Future in Washington.  “Given the politics of climate policy, it’s easy to get
discouraged,” Kevin Kennedy, the head of the U.S. climate
initiative at the World Resources Institute in Washington, said
in an interview. “But a lot of good progress has been made.”  Carbon emissions from energy in the U.S., the largest
source after  China , probably will stay below the record level of
6 billion metric tons set in 2007 for the next 23 years, the
U.S. Energy Information Administration  predicted  Jan. 23, the
first time it forecast a long-term  reduction .  The story in the U.S. is in contrast to China,  India ,
Mexico and Russia, where demand for carbon-dependent cars and
electricity is surging, leaving the planet on a course for
unsustainable warming, according to a report by the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Global Change Program.  ‘Urgently Needed Change’  “There are few signs that the urgently needed change in
direction in global energy trends is under way,” the
International Energy Association said in its World Energy
Outlook in November.  Unlike the past, however, the U.S. isn’t lagging behind
while progress is made in  Europe ,  Japan  or even China.  The U.S. is the only industrialized nation that failed to
ratify the 1997  Kyoto Protocol , and it tussled with China as
negotiations on a climate accord foundered at recent summits.
The Senate never took up a 2009 cap-and-trade measure that
passed the House of Representatives, and there is no similar
legislative effort in the works.  Progress came from an unexpected source: a  fossil fuel .  With the increased use of natural gas in the U.S. the
Energy Information Administration predicts that in 2035, carbon-
dioxide emissions will total 5.8 billion metric tons, a cut of 8
percent from a forecast just last year. That’s also down 40
percent from the prediction made in 2005, before the recession,
 according  to Dan Lashof, director of the climate center at the
New York-based Natural Resources Defense Council.  Greater Reductions Possible  In fact, with automobile standards set to be phased in
through 2025 and state-level solar and wind mandates, the
reductions likely will be even greater than the agency forecast
in its model. Auto standards alone will cut emissions by a
further 6 percent or more in 2035, Lashof said in an interview.  “We are getting similar results in the domestic economy to
what we would have expected under” the cap-and-trade bill,
Burtraw, with Resources for the Future, said in an interview.
The environmental research group is funded by foundations,
government grants and companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   Carbon-dioxide emissions since the Industrial Revolution
have led to a warming of the earth’s temperature, which
threatens to cause extreme weather, drought and coastal
flooding, according to the U.S.  Global Change Research Program .
Environmentalists such as author Bill McKibben argue that the
U.S. needs quicker, deeper cuts in its fossil-fuel use to
forestall a global catastrophe.  Price Pressure  Instead of a radical overhaul, low natural-gas prices are
moving the country to trim emissions.  “The most important reality for greenhouse gases is low
natural-gas prices,”  Robert Stavins , director of the Harvard
Environmental Economics Program, said in an interview.  Hydraulic fracturing, in which chemically treated water is
forced underground to shatter rock and let gas flow, has opened
up vast new shale-gas deposits to companies such as  Chesapeake
Energy (CHK)  and  Cabot Oil & Gas Corp. (COG)   As a result of the surge in the drilling technique, known
as fracking, natural-gas prices are at their lowest levels in a
decade, putting the cost of generating electricity from gas
close to or cheaper than coal. That can mean huge benefits for
the climate: Each of the top 10 facilities releasing the most
carbon dioxide in the U.S. is a coal-fired power plant.  Coal Versus Gas  Coal’s share of electricity production had already  dropped 
below 40 percent by the end of 2011, the first time it had been
that low since 1978, the Energy Information Administration said
March 9. The share of natural gas used in power production is
likely to grow to 27 percent by 2035 from 19 percent in 2005,
while coal is likely to slip to 39 percent from 42 percent last
year and 50 percent in 2005, according to agency data.  The fracking boom is a benefit for gas-heavy power
producers such as  Calpine Corp. (CPN)  and a drag on coal-dependent
producers such as  GenOn Energy Inc. (GEN)  and Edison Mission Energy,
according to a report by Moody’s Investors Service. GenOn, the
third-largest U.S. independent power producer by market value,
said Feb. 29 that it will shut about 13 percent of its
generating capacity by May 2015. All but one of the eight sites
slated to close are coal-powered.  “Low natural-gas prices will keep margins and cash flow
under pressure for most unregulated power producers,” A.J.
Sabatelle, senior vice president of Moody’s, wrote in the report
on Feb. 29.  Long-Term Impact  To be sure, the long-term environmental impact of cheap gas
is still being debated, as communities complain that their water
is being polluted by the chemicals leaking into wells from
fracking. Local opposition has prevented fracking in  New York 
and Maryland as state rules are developed, and the EPA and other
federal agencies are considering a series of regulations to
force disclosure of the chemicals used during drilling, mandate
wastewater cleanup and limit toxic air emissions.  Meanwhile, two academic studies question whether natural
gas is even better for the climate than coal.  Robert Howarth, a Cornell University professor of ecology
and evolutionary biology,  published  a paper last year that said
fracking allowed so much methane to be released during drilling
that natural gas ends up doing more climate damage than coal.  Competing  studies  say the methane leakage is not as great
as Howarth estimates, and many environmental groups say that the
appropriate government regulations could keep local water
sources safe and prevent gas escaping when wells are tapped.  Methane Leakage  “The issue is methane leakage,” Lashof said in an
interview. “The solution is to stop wasting so much gas.”  In addition, Ken Caldeira, a climate scientist at the
Carnegie Institution at  Stanford University ,  co-authored  a paper
published last month that said replacing every coal plant with
natural gas wouldn’t arrest global warming, partly because of
the pollution generated by construction equipment in building
those new facilities.  And it’s not just natural gas. Booming U.S. oil production
is also being seen by both industry and environmental groups as
a way to cut down on carbon-dioxide emissions.  Carbon dioxide is pumped into old, depleted oil fields to
help squeeze the last bits of oil out of the underground
reserves. With prices for crude topping $100, those older
deposits are increasingly attractive and the price of carbon
dioxide is rising along with demand.  Carbon-Dioxide Credits  A coalition of environmental groups such as the Clean Air
Task Force and  Southern Co. (SO)  joined together on Feb. 28 to
petition the government to provide tax credits so that carbon
dioxide generated during ethanol production or by  power plants 
can be used in these depleted fields and not released into the
atmosphere.  “We could simultaneously increase our domestic oil
production and decrease our carbon-dioxide emissions,”  Eileen
Claussen , director of the Center for Climate and Energy
Solutions in Washington, said at an event on Capitol Hill.
Claussen’s group is funded by companies such as  Duke Energy
Corp. (DUK)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)   The tax cuts could quadruple the use of this technology
from the current 281,000 barrels a day, which would result in a
4 percent cut in annual carbon-dioxide emissions, Claussen’s
group estimates.  Even the trim in projected U.S. emissions is far from
certain, as  Washington  policies or economics can change.  The EPA rules that would mandate reductions in greenhouse-
gas emissions from power plants face criticism in Congress and
court challenges. A Republican president could roll back any EPA
rules that are issued. And none of the regulations are as far-
reaching or beneficial as setting a price on carbon, Burtraw
said.  Meanwhile, the cumulative effect of carbon-dioxide
emissions means that the world needs to figure out how to be
carbon neutral by 2050, a long way from a slight reduction in
the U.S. by 2035, according to Armond Cohen, the executive
director of the Clean Air Task Force in Boston.  “Right now people are thinking incrementally,” Cohen said
in an interview. “The climb is a lot steeper than anyone is
willing to talk about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Clark Hoyt at 
 choyt2@bloomberg.net  