-- Freight-Forwarding Companies Said to Face EU Price-Fixing Fines
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-03-27T18:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/freight-forwarding-companies-said-to-face-eu-price-fixing-fines.html
Companies including Ceva Group Plc
may be fined by European Union regulators for price-fixing in
the freight-forwarding market, according to two people familiar
with the matter.  The European Commission may fine the companies as soon as
tomorrow for operating a cartel in freight-forwarding services
between the EU, the U.S. and  Asia , said the people, who couldn’t
be identified because the decision isn’t final.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) ,  Expeditors International of
Washington Inc .,  UTi Worldwide Inc. (UTIW) ,  Kuehne & Nagel
International AG (KNIN)  and the French unit of  DSV A/S (DSV)  were among
companies sent formal antitrust complaints by the EU in 2010.
Freight forwarding involves organizing the transportation of
goods along with related activities such as  customs clearance ,
warehousing and ground services.  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) , based in Bonn, said in 2010 it “and
relevant subsidiaries” were granted immunity from fines by the
EU “conditional upon DHL Global Forwarding’s continued
cooperation.” Operators of a cartel risk being fined as much as
10 percent of their global revenue.  Norman Black , a spokesman for UPS in Atlanta, didn’t
immediately respond to a voice-mail message seeking comment.
Kuehne + Nagel and DSV didn’t respond to calls and e-mails
outside normal business hours. Deutsche Post and UTi couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  Erin Talbott, a spokeswoman for Expeditors, didn’t
immediately respond to a voice mail requesting comment. A call
to Ceva Group in  London  wasn’t immediately answered after office
hours.  Reuters reported on the expected fines earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  