-- French Consumer Confidence Unexpectedly Jumped in March
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-03-27T11:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/french-consumer-confidence-unexpectedly-jumped-in-march.html
French  consumer confidence 
unexpectedly jumped by the most in almost five years in March as
the euro region’s second-largest economy prepares for a possible
change of government.  A  measure of sentiment  rose to 87 from 82 in February,
national statistics office Insee said in Paris today. Economists
forecast an unchanged reading, according to the median of 16
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The gain was the biggest
since May 2007, when  Nicolas Sarkozy  won  France ’s presidency
promising to bolster household purchasing power.  “Every five years people think the next government will do
better,” said  Dominique Barbet , an economist at BNP Paribas in
Paris. “This time they’re opening the champagne early.”  Opinion surveys point to a victory for Sarkozy’s socialist
rival Francois Hollande in presidential elections that conclude
on May 6. While Sarkozy and Hollande are seen as neck-and-neck
in the first round of voting, scheduled for April 22, polls
consistently show Hollande leading Sarkozy by an unprecedented
margin for the May 6 run-off between the two leading candidates.  European stocks advanced for a third day before a report
that may show the U.S. real-estate market is stabilizing. The
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 0.2 percent to 268.68 at noon in
 London . The euro gained 0.02 percent to $1.3359.  Skirting Recession  The increase in French  consumer confidence  to the highest
reading since July comes amid signs the nation has avoided a
recession. While Insee said last week that the economy will
stagnate in the current quarter, it predicted a return to growth
in the three months through June.  The new Insee forecast prompted Sarkozy’s government to
lift its prediction for France’s 2012 economic expansion to 0.7
percent. Business confidence is also improving and job losses
are slowing as concern about Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
fades.  Jobless claims rose by 6,200 in February compared with an
increase of 13,400 in January and more than 20,000 in each of
the previous four months, according to Labor ministry figures
published yesterday.  Elsewhere in  Europe , market research company GfK SE
predicted that its gauge of German consumer confidence will slip
from a 12-month high in April.  In the U.K., retail sales were unchanged in March from a
year earlier and stores expect conditions to worsen next month
amid rising unemployment and higher energy prices, the
 Confederation of British Industry  said.  U.S. Confidence  Consumer confidence in the U.S. probably fell from a one-
year high this month, according to a Bloomberg survey. The New
York-based Conference Board’s  consumer confidence gauge  will be
published at 10 a.m. local time.  Today’s French confidence survey showed consumers growing
less pessimistic about the outlook for their personal financial
situation and about the outlook for  living standards  in France.  Hollande would win a head-to-head race with Sarkozy, taking
54 percent of the vote compared with 46 percent for the
incumbent, according to a biweekly  Ifop Fiducial poll  for Europe
1 radio, Paris Match and Public Senat published today. The
survey was carried out March 22 to 25 among a sample of 1,760
people. The margin of error is about 2.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  