-- Tourists Abet Digital Signs in Times Square’s Urban Mall
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-03-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/gaping-tourists-abet-digital-signs-in-times-square-s-urban-mall.html
The wandering throngs in Times
Square point their mobile phones and digital cameras at the 230
flickering signs that ascend more than 20 stories over  New York
City ’s central public square.  It’s a head-on collision between 350,000 daily pedestrians
and 385,000 square feet of saturated color.  The signs on Times Square grow larger and climb higher than
ever as digital technology has transformed both the displays and
the way people use this elongated bowtie intersection.  The area once was known for billboard artifice. There are
still a few holdouts, such as a fabric banner promoting the
Broadway show “Mary Poppins” that rises 26 stories.  Now much of the square is a “mediascape.” I first
encountered this by crashing into a swirling crowd that had
screeched to a halt to stare at a giant digital sign that showed
us staring back.  We waved and clicked camera phones at our pixelated selves
waving and clicking.  I returned to that sign with Jason Barak, managing partner
of  D3led LLC , which designed and fabricated this and most of the
square’s proliferating digital “spectaculars” (as the trade
calls them). It surmounts a Forever 21, a youth-oriented fashion
retailer.  D3led framed the storefront in pink LED strips. The
numerals 21 projected forward from the sign, creating a ghostly
image layered over the street image. Sometimes a video figure
danced “into” the waving throngs, appearing to interact with
the real people caught on video -- artifice atop artifice.  Square Foot Cost  Barak wouldn’t tell me what this extravaganza cost. But he
said the signs range from $500 to $2,000 a square foot,
depending largely on the screen resolution.  He’s proudest of the 17,000 square feet of animated
electronic signage that runs in broad diagonal bands down the
Times Tower, the landmark 22-story flatiron building that
dominates the southern end of the square.  Digital technology is not the only reason people linger in
the square. The discount ticket booth called TKTS was replaced
in 2008 with a glass-enclosed new structure roofed in a set of
red-lit steps. It offers a perfect photo op, along with cheaper
tickets.  Then city officials set aside large swaths of roadway for
pedestrians, diverting traffic elsewhere. Cafe tables and chairs
sprouted.  ‘Dwell Time’  Retailers balked, but pedestrian-friendly Times Square has
been a hit with visitors. Marketers saw peoples’ “dwell time”
increase and rushed to take advantage.  Animators made M&Ms dance, spin and explode. Signs urged
visitors to dial-in their designs for an athletic shoe on their
phones, and watch their alterations appear in blinking diodes.
Advertisers tied their electronic messages to live performances
on the square.  Visitors pitch in by shooting photos and videos, and
posting them on  Facebook (FB)  and YouTube. Gadgetry brings more
people out to look at actual Broadway dancers.  The Times Square Alliance, a business-improvement district,
is working on “Midnight Moment,” which would bring short artist-
generated animations to play across dozens of screens.  For decades neon-light girls have danced above the square.
A Camel cigarette sign breathed smoke. Pepsi bottles posed atop
fizzing waterfalls.  Aesthetes correctly deem the square a mall. Yet the
inventiveness of sign makers has kept the canyonlike streets of
Times Square a throbbing urban nexus.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 