-- Gemadept Sees Fivefold Pretax Profit Gain as Vietnam Rates Fall
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-27T06:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/gemadept-sees-fivefold-pretax-profit-gain-as-vietnam-rates-fall.html
Gemadept Corp. (GMD) , Vietnam’s biggest
listed freight company by market value, expects a fivefold rise
in pretax profit this year as falling  interest rates  and a
global economic recovery drive demand for its services.  Profit will probably rise to at least 150 billion dong
($7.2 million), from 30.6 billion dong in 2011, General Director
Do Van Minh said in a telephone interview today from Ho Chi Minh
City. He didn’t provide a net income estimate.  Gemadept may benefit from the Vietnamese government’s push
to reduce borrowing costs to spur growth in the economy that
Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung has targeted at 6 percent this
year. Shipping volume at Gemadept, based in  Ho Chi Minh City ,
and competitors slumped last year as manufacturers curbed
production amid higher interest rates, Minh said in September.  “Our company’s profit will increase from last year thanks
to the economic outlook in the world and in Vietnam,” Minh said
in today’s interview. “Falling interest rates in the country
will boost production, companies will have more freight demand
and Gemadept will enjoy more orders.”  Gemadept climbed as much as 2 percent and was trading 1.6
percent higher at 24,800 dong as of 1:30 p.m. in Ho Chi Minh
City trading. The stock has advanced 39 percent this year,
compared with a 27 percent gain for the country’s benchmark
index.  The company made a provision of 103 billion dong for stock
losses last year, Minh said. Gemadept probably won’t need to
make such an allowance in 2012 because of the market’s strong
performance, he said.  Key Rate Cut  Vietnam ’s central bank reduced its key refinance rate this
month, the first cut since 2009, to spur economic growth that
slowed last year. The economy expanded 5.9 percent in 2011 and
6.8 percent in 2010.  Inflation eased in March for a seventh month, with consumer
prices rising 14.15 percent, the slowest pace in a year.  “The effect of lower interest rates will have some lag, so
the freight market may not improve until the third or fourth
quarter,” Minh said. “We will expand our port and logistics
businesses to preempt higher demand when the economy picks up.”  Vietnam’s first-quarter exports increased an estimated 28
percent from a year earlier to $24.5 billion, according to a
posting on the government’s website on March 25.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  