-- German Bunds Advance Amid Bailout Concern; Portugal’s Bonds Gain
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-03-27T16:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/german-bunds-advance-on-confidence-data-before-italian-auction.html
German bunds rose, pushing yields
toward a two-week low, on speculation measures to increase the
euro-area’s financial firewall will fail to stem the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  Most euro-area  government bonds  underperformed German
securities as finance ministers from the 17 euro nations
prepared to meet in Copenhagen on March 30 to discuss bailout
provisions. Italian bonds declined as the nation sold 3.82
billion euros ($5.09 billion) of debt.  Portugal ’s two-year notes
advanced, pushing  yields  below 10 percent for the first time
since April.  “It’s far from certain that we will have an increase in
the rescue funds’ capacity and also the devil will be very much
in the detail,” said Elwin de Groot, a market economist at
Rabobank Nederland in Utrecht. “Overall consumers remain fairly
downbeat” and that is boosting demand for safety.  The German 10-year yield fell seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 1.89 percent at 5 p.m.  London  time after
dropping to 1.855 percent on March 23, the lowest since March
13. The 2 percent bond due January 2022 rose 0.575, or 5.75
euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 100.975.  Spain’s economy is suffering its second recession since
2009, the country’s central bank said in a monthly bulletin
today, obstructing the government’s efforts to reorder public
finances as it prepares the budget for this year.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel yesterday cited
“fragility” in Spain and Portugal as she said  Germany  may
allow the region’s two bailout facilities to run in tandem
without expanding the size of a permanent rescue fund to more
than 500 billion euros.  Higher Yields  Merkel told lawmakers today that she expects German
borrowing costs to rise as the debt crisis ebbs and the
country’s status as a haven wanes, according to two party
officials who took part in a meeting in Berlin.  Italian  10-year yields  climbed nine basis points to 5.12
percent, increasing the extra yield investors demand to hold the
securities over bunds by 15 basis points to 323 basis points.  The Spanish 10-year yield rose two basis points to 5.35
percent. The spread over bunds expanded eight basis points to
346 basis points.  Italy sold 2.82 billion euros of two-year zero-coupon bonds
at a rate of 2.352 percent. The country also auctioned a
combined 1 billion euros of inflation-linked bonds due in 2019
and 2021. The total raised was less than the maximum target of 4
billion euros.  Spain  sold 2.58 billion euros of three- and six-month bills
compared with its maximum target of 3 billion euros.  Portuguese Rally  Portugal’s two-year notes gained for a ninth day, with the
yield dropping 106 basis points to 9.5 percent. The  10-year (GSPT10YR) 
yield fell 77 basis points to 11.45 percent, the lowest level
since Nov. 24.  “Portuguese debt is trading at very pessimistic levels and
last week there were some decent buying flows, indicating that
investors are still building positions,” said  Peter Chatwell , a
fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank in London. “This looks like a continuation of
the good price action.”  Volatility on Portuguese bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets followed by Ireland, according to measures of 10-year
bonds, two- and 10-year yield spreads and credit-default swaps.  Irish notes rose after the country’s Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said an agreement between the debt agency and a subsidiary
of  China ’s sovereign wealth fund to explore investment
opportunities in Ireland shows the nation “is heading in the
right direction.” Two-year note yields fell eight basis points
to 4.65 percent.  Consumer Confidence  Ten-year German bunds advanced for the fifth time in six
days after  GfK SE (GFK)  predicted German  consumer confidence  will
decline for the first time in seven months in April. The market
research company said its  consumer-sentiment index , based on a
survey of about 2,000 people, will slip to 5.9 from a 12-month
high of 6 in March.  The additional yield investors demand to hold U.S. 10-year
debt over German bunds widened to 32 basis points today,
triggering a “recommendation to position for trend extension,”
 Richard Adcock , a currency and fixed-income technical strategist
at UBS AG in London, wrote in a note to clients.  Investors should target a widening to 44 basis points,
which is “just above the 62 percent retracement of the March
2010-to-November 2011 move,” he wrote, citing Fibonacci
analysis. They should exit the position if the spread narrows to
24 basis points, he said.  Fibonacci analysis is based on the theory that prices rise
or fall by certain percentages after reaching a high or low.  German bunds have declined 0.6 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Italian bonds made the biggest
return of the 26 markets tracked by the indexes, gaining 12
percent, followed by Irish securities, which rose 11 percent.  -- With assistance from Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki. Editors:
 Paul Dobson , Mark McCord  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  