-- Gillard Party Support Slumps to Near Record Low, Poll Shows
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2012-03-27T00:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/gillard-party-support-slumps-to-near-record-low-poll-shows-1-.html
Poll ratings for  Australia ’s
governing party have tumbled to a near-record low in a fresh
blow to Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , after Labor suffered a
landslide defeat in a state election at the weekend.  Labor’s primary vote slid 3 percentage points to 28
percent, while support for the Liberal-National coalition rose
four points to 47, according to a Newspoll survey published in
the Australian newspaper today. Labor trails the opposition on a
two-party preferred basis, seen as the most accurate gauge of
potential election outcomes, by 43 percent to 57 percent, from a
six-point gap two weeks ago.  Labor was swept from power in Queensland on March 24 in its
worst election defeat in the state and is expected to lose 44 of
the 51 seats it held in the regional parliament. With national
elections due within 20 months, the ballot served as a warning
at the depth of discontent with Labor in Queensland and
underscores the difficulties facing Gillard as she tries to
restore the party’s flagging popularity.  The Queensland election was a “very severe defeat for
Labor,” Gillard told reporters in  Seoul  today, where she is
attending a nuclear conference. “My job is to both listen and
lead and that’s what I will be doing as prime minister.”  Minority Government  The northeastern state accounted for more than half the
federal seats Labor lost in the last national election in 2010,
when it was reduced to a minority government. Should the 15.7
percent swing away from Labor in the March 24 ballot be
replicated at the next federal poll, the party would lose all
eight of its seats in Queensland, including that of Treasurer
and Deputy Prime  Wayne Swan .  Labor’s national primary vote has fallen below 30 percent
for the first time since October and is close to the record low
of 26 percent in September, according to the Newspoll survey.
The poll of 925 people was conducted March 23-25 and had a
margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  Gillard’s lead as preferred prime minister gained 1 point
to 40 percent, compared with opposition leader  Tony Abbott ’s 37
percent, unchanged from two weeks earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  