-- GKN Said Likely to Purchase Volvo Aero Unit in About a Month
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-03-27T15:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/gkn-said-likely-to-purchase-volvo-s-aero-unit-in-about-a-month.html
GKN Plc (GKN) , a British maker of
aircraft components for Airbus SAS, is looking to close a deal
to buy  Volvo AB (VOLVB) ’s aircraft-engine unit in the next month, two
people familiar with the situation said.  GKN is the remaining bidder for Volvo Aero as other
potential buyers have dropped out, said the people, who declined
to be identified as the talks are private. Volvo and GKN aim to
sign a preliminary agreement in about two weeks, with a final
deal to close the purchase coming a couple of weeks later, one
of the people said.  GKN initially bid about 800 million pounds ($1.28 billion)
for Aero, a price that depends on Volvo meeting certain
conditions, the people said. The final price is likely to be
slightly lower, they said. Marten Wikforss, a Volvo spokesman,
and Andrew Lorenz, a GKN spokesman, declined to comment.  Volvo said in November it would sell the aero-engine unit
to focus on heavy trucks and construction equipment in the
Gothenburg, Sweden-based company’s biggest structural shift
since splitting off its car division a decade ago. The Volvo
Aero unit equips aircraft such as  Saab AB (SAABB) ’s Gripen fighter jet.  GKN and other competitors are looking to broaden their
offerings as defense budgets decline in  Europe  and the U.S. In
the U.K., Prime Minister David Cameron’s government is in the
midst of plans to trim defense spending by 8 percent over four
years, while  Germany  last year ordered cumulative savings of 3.3
billion euros ($4.4 billion) in its military budget by 2013.  GKN  dropped  2.20 pence, or 1 percent, to 211.60 pence at
the close of trading in  London  today. Volvo rose 0.2 percent to
97.40 kronor in  Stockholm .  Broaden Offering  Companies that had been interested and dropped out include
German aircraft-engine maker  MTU Aero Engines Holding AG (MTX)  and
buyout firms  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and Nordic Capital.  The asset would allow GKN to further broaden its offering
after Chief Executive Officer Nigel Stein called 2011 a “year
of transition” for the aerospace division, with an accelerating
civil aviation market countering lower military orders.  Stein said Feb. 28 that he will remain disciplined on what
he would pay for acquisitions and that Redditch, England-based
GKN has looked “at a lot of things over the years.”  GKN has  four divisions , of which aerospace is the second-
largest by revenue. The aerospace business increased sales 4
percent to 1.48 billion pounds in 2011, lagging underlying
revenue growth at the other three divisions.  In addition to complete engines, Volvo’s aero-engine unit
makes components including compressor rotors, turbine structures
and fan cases. The division’s operating profit fell to 151
million kronor ($22.7 million) in the fourth quarter from 282
million kronor a year earlier. Sales increased 1 percent.  The Swedish  truckmaker  has been active in aviation systems
since the 1940s. The business traces its roots to a Swedish Air
Force order for 40  aircraft engines  placed with a locomotive
manufacturer in 1930, according to Volvo Aero’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
 Jacqueline Simmons  at   jackiem@bloomberg.net . 