-- MGM Resorts Drops Massachusetts Casino Plan for New Site
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-03-28T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/mgm-drops-out-of-casino-project-in-brimfield-massachusetts.html
MGM Resorts International (MGM)  dropped
out of a casino project in Brimfield, Massachusetts, and will
seek an alternative site in the western part of the state.  “The unique nature of MGM’s plans for an all-inclusive
world-class resort on the Brimfield site, and our growing
understanding of the needed scope for its infrastructure, simply
do not allow us to pursue the comprehensive MGM resort
originally envisioned here,” Bill Hornbuckle, MGM’s Chief
Marketing Officer, said yesterday in a statement.  Massachusetts has drawn interest from some the nation’s
largest gambling companies since Governor Deval Patrick signed
legislation in November allowing for three destination resorts,
one each in separate regions of the state. An additional license
for a slot-machine facility is also planned.  Wynn Resorts Ltd (WYNN)  has proposed a casino in  Foxborough , 30
miles (48 kilometers) south of Boston, while Caesars
Entertainment Corp. hopes to develop at the Suffolk Downs horse
track north of the state’s largest city. Connecticut tribal
casino operator Mohegan Sun is pursuing a resort in Palmer, in
the western part of the state, as is Las Vegas-based  Ameristar
Casinos Inc. (ASCA) , which in January paid  $16 million  for a 41-acre
site in Springfield.  A five-member gaming commission will oversee the licensing
process, which involves initial fees of at least $85 million and
a 25 percent share of casino revenue for the state. The
licensing fee for the slot facility would be at least $25
million, with the state taking 40 percent of revenue and horse
tracks receiving an additional 9 percent.  MGM’s withdrawal, reported earlier by the  Boston  Globe,
doesn’t mean an end to the proposed casino in Brimfield. The
company’s former partner, Rolling Hills Realty Trust, will
continue to develop that site, David Callahan, a principal in
the trust, said in a separate statement.  MGM fell 0.3 percent to $14.50 yesterday in  New York . The
shares have gained 17 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  