-- GM Says Commonwealth Created to Be Chevrolet Brand Ad Agency
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-03-27T19:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/gm-says-commonwealth-created-to-be-chevrolet-brand-ad-agency-1-.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s
largest automaker, named a new advertising agency for its
 Chevrolet  brand as part of reorganizing the company’s marketing
efforts aimed at saving $2 billion over five years.  The Chevy business will go to Commonwealth, a newly created
joint venture between  Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC) ’s Goodby, Silverstein &
Partners and Interpublic Group of Companies Inc.’s McCann
Erickson Worldwide, GM said today in a statement. Chevrolet,
GM’s largest brand by unit sales, previously used 70 ad agencies
around the world, the carmaker said.  “This is the first time that two large marketing
communications holding companies have come together to form a
single company,”  Joel Ewanick , GM’s chief marketing officer,
said in the statement. “Commonwealth will be based right here
in  Detroit , and its only focus will be on strengthening and
growing Chevrolet into an iconic global brand.”  GM will look at the “Chevy Runs Deep” campaign with the
intent of deciding its future by midyear, Ewanick said during a
conference call with reporters.  “No decision has been made on ‘Chevy Runs Deep,’” he
said. The company will examine “what do we do with the theme
line. Do we need a theme line? And if it is, is it ‘Chevy Runs
Deep?’”  Ewanick said the slogan has started to see “traction” in
some markets outside the U.S.  Goodby had held Chevrolet’s ad business in the U.S. while
McCann was the brand’s agency in many global markets, including
Brazil and China, GM said. GM in January disclosed that  Aegis
Group Plc (AGS) ’s Carat was selected as the company’s agency for media
planning and buying.  The $2 billion in savings will occur over five years,
Ewanick said in the statement, “with a portion used to take
advantage of key global marketing opportunities and strengthen
the focus on our global Chevrolet brand, and a portion hitting
the bottom line.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  