-- Goldman Sachs Preserves Blankfein’s Dual Role
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-03-28T16:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/goldman-sachs-preserves-blankfein-s-dual-role-with-lead-director.html
(Corrects spelling of Spar’s first name in the sixth
paragraph of story published March 27.)  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  won’t face
a union challenge to Lloyd C. Blankfein’s dual role as chairman
and chief executive officer after agreeing to appoint an
independent board member as “lead director.”  “We think it’s a step in the right direction,” said Lisa Lindsley, the Washington-based director of capital strategies at
the American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees, which she said owned 7,101 Goldman Sachs shares when
the union filed a proposal to split Blankfein’s roles. She said
AFSCME and Goldman Sachs reached the compromise, reported
earlier today by the Wall Street Journal, on Feb. 6.  The lead director’s responsibilities include presiding over
board meetings when the chairman is absent, leading the annual
CEO evaluation and acting as liaison between independent board
members and management, according to a  description  posted on
Goldman Sachs’s website. John H. Bryan, a former  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE) 
CEO who has served on Goldman Sachs’s board since November 1999,
had some of those responsibilities as presiding director.  “Right now it looks like it’s  John Bryan ,” Lindsley said
when asked who would be named lead director. “But I think that
there may be some changes in the board composition.”  Bryan, who turned 75 in October, is required by the firm’s
corporate governance  guidelines  to retire by the next annual
shareholders meeting unless the board requests that he stay.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, is
holding a meeting of directors this week in  India , the first
time the board has convened there. The firm, which has 12
directors, last year added M. Michele Burns, the former chairman
and CEO of Marsh & McLennan Cos.’s Mercer human-resources
consulting unit, and Barnard College President Debora L. Spar.  ‘Constructive Talks’  “We appreciated the constructive talks we had with
AFSCME,”  David Wells , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in New
York, said in an e-mailed statement.  AFSCME, the largest public employee and health-care
workers’ union in the U.S., hasn’t dropped its effort to split
the chairman and CEO roles at other companies including  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. bank, Lindsley said.  The change at Goldman Sachs didn’t assuage all of the
union’s concerns, some of which  Greg Smith , a former derivatives
salesman, highlighted in a March 14 New York Times op-ed,
Lindsley said. Smith wrote that he was quitting after almost 12
years at the firm and that the company’s culture of putting
clients first has eroded under Blankfein and President Gary D. Cohn, who also sits on the board of directors. Blankfein, 57,
and Cohn, 51, said that most employees disagree and that the
bank would investigate Smith’s assertions.  “Our members are participants in state and local
government pension plans that are clients of Goldman Sachs,”
Lindsley said. “And so as clients I think we’re concerned that
the culture of Goldman is not only averse to the best interests
of shareholders but it’s averse to the interests of clients.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 