-- Goldman Figures Ignoring Women Costs 15% Growth
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-03-27T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/goldman-figures-ignoring-women-costs-15-growth.html
In the year since  Japan (JGDPAGDP) ’s
devastating earthquake and tsunami, the nation’s many deficits
have been cast in stark relief.  The  budget deficit  is widening as the cost of rebuilding
the northeast mounts. The growth shortfall is worrying
politicians more than ever and making it hard for Yoshihiko Noda, the sixth prime minister in five years, to keep his job.
Deflation is a chronic downer. News that the  trade gap 
disappeared last month was, for now at least, a rare hint that
better days may lie ahead.  Oddly, Japan’s most obvious shortcoming is being ignored
more now than before the March 11, 2011, disaster: women.  The  Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development 
routinely urges Japan to provide women with more opportunities
to boost growth. In 2010, the country ranked a dismal 94th in a
World Economic Forum  report  on the gap between men and women. By
the end of 2011,  Japan  had slid to 98th place, trailing China,
Tajikistan and  Zimbabwe .  Yukako Uchinaga personifies Japan’s empowerment deficit --
and what to do about it -- as well as anyone. The chief
executive officer of  Berlitz Corp.  recalls a time when she hid
in the women’s room. It was back in the 1970s when she worked as
a systems  engineer  at International Business Machines Corp. At 8
p.m., an inspector would search the office to make sure all
women had gone home. Once the checks were done, Uchinaga would
leave the bathroom stall and return to work.  Running Freely  “My boss used to say, ‘I don’t want to be put in jail,”’
Uchinaga told Bloomberg News recently. “I complained it was
unfair, like being in a 100-meter race with my hands and feet
tied while all my male colleagues ran freely.”  That law is no longer on the books and in the decades that
followed,  discrimination  was formally banned. Yet, in 2012 women
occupy just one in 70 management jobs at Japanese companies. Not
one Nikkei 225 Stock Average company is run by a woman. Noda’s
Cabinet contains just one woman: Health Minister Yoko Komiyama.  The numbers have long spoken for themselves. Kathy Matsui,
a Tokyo-based strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., estimates
that if Japan’s female employment rate matched that of males --
one of the highest anywhere at about 80 percent -- gross
domestic product would get a boost of as much as 15 percent. For
a deflation-plagued economy that is contracting at a rate of 0.6
percent, even a small portion of that jolt would be a godsend.  Change Catalyst?  Why Japan’s leaders would rather limp than charge ahead in
the age of  China  is beyond me. What would it take to change
gender attitudes? I felt certain that last year’s disaster that
killed almost 20,000 people would be the turning point. A
shrinking and rapidly aging society suspicious of mass
immigration must recognize its hidden strengths.  Japan has two. One is millions of highly skilled retirees
whose talents could be tapped. The other is a vast and educated
female workforce. Don’t count on the gray-haired men who run
Japan paying much mind to the latter.  For all its talk of fresh thinking and empowering
households, the ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan has done
nothing to realize that goal. A June 2011 Cabinet  paper  urging
Japan to raise the proportion of women in leadership to 30
percent by 2020 was more lip service than substance.  Women Power  The answer is for women to demand their due. Japan’s
history is replete with flashes of feminist energy, but few
caught on in a cohesive, sustained and formidable way. A little
Gloria Steinem-style agitation, or even taking a page from
“ Lysistrata ,” might go a long way in a nation badly in need of
an economic shakeup. After all, those in power don’t tend to
yield it easily, least of all Japan’s old-boys club.  That gets us back to Uchinaga, 65, who became the first
female board member at IBM Japan in 1995. Today, she is chairman
of the  Japan Women’s Innovative Network , a nonprofit group that
researches and advises on diversity. It is helping members like
Nissan Motor Co. to advance women’s roles.  Japan needs more female success stories like Uchinaga to
step forward and draw attention to this most-correctable of
problems. Count long-time gender-equality activist Kimie Iwata,
64, among them. The vice president at Shiseido Co., Japan’s top
cosmetics maker, is championing her own effort to tap the
underutilized female masses. Who knows, maybe Japan needs a
female prime minister. It couldn’t hurt.  Sexism exacerbates  Japan (WPOPJAPA) ’s falling-birthrate dilemma. Women
hoping for better opportunities are delaying childbirth. More
enlightened policies to empower women and help them manage work
and family would serve the third-largest economy well. It
wouldn’t just conjure up more growth, but babies, too.  Instead, all too many university graduates remain relegated
to the dead-end role of “office lady,” serving tea when they
could be offering fresh ideas and drafting business proposals.
That’s no way to run a democracy, and women need to make their
disenchantment with Japan’s gender-inequality deficit heard.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  