-- Goldman Diaspora Falters as Flamand Hedge Fund Declines
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-03-27T11:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/goldman-diaspora-falters-as-flamand-hedge-fund-declines.html
Ex- Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc. traders
led by Pierre-Henri Flamand and Morgan Sze raised more than $4.5
billion for their own hedge funds, helped by the experience of
having worked at what once was Wall Street’s most profitable
securities firm.  So far, none of them has made money for clients.  The two are among at least six traders who have left
Goldman Sachs’s biggest proprietary-trading group in the past
two years, which the New York-based bank shuttered in response
to new U.S. regulations. All, including Daniele Benatoff and
Ariel Roskis, trailed this year’s stock market rally after
losing money in 2011, investors said. Elif Aktug, who quit the
bank in 2011, plans to start managing money for outside clients
at her Agora Fund Ltd. in May.  “In spite of their pedigree, many ex-Goldman prop traders
have found it much harder than they originally thought to make
money,” said Matias Ringel, the New York-based head of research
at EFG Asset Management, which invests in  hedge funds .  Poor timing led to the slow start for the Goldman Sachs
diaspora as the European sovereign-debt crisis and a fragile
economic recovery in the U.S. dominated global markets. Yet
their failure to generate profits from investments also
highlights the differences between trading at a bank, with its
extensive research, technology and compliance operations, and
running a hedge fund where clients pay top fees and are less
tolerant of risk.  Hedge funds as a group have trailed returns of U.S. stocks
every year since the end of 2008, making investors more
selective where they put their money.  Flamand’s DAX Bet  Flamand, 41, who was the global chief of Goldman Sachs’s
principal strategies group before he quit two years ago to start
Edoma Capital Partners LLP in  London , has lost about 2.4 percent
through February since his $1.8 billion hedge fund started in
November 2010, according to investors.  Edoma is an event-driven fund, which invests in companies
undergoing events such as mergers, spinoffs and bankruptcies.
Such funds returned an average 3.9 percent in the same 16-month
period, while all hedge funds gained 2.6 percent, according to
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. The MSCI World Index of
developed-country equities returned 10 percent, including
dividends.  Flamand, who hired former colleagues including Ali Hedayat,
struggled in 2011 like managers across the industry amid
concerns that Greece might default on its debt. His fund started
November betting that the DAX Index of German companies would
rise as a result of the European crisis easing, according to a
letter sent to clients that month. The bet failed when European
leaders said Nov. 2 that  Greece  may have to leave the euro,
leaving Flamand with losses in the first two weeks of the month.  Sze’s Losses  Flamand had bought credit-default swaps at the end of
October that protect against the failure of European companies,
as investor fears of defaults increased. The cost of holding the
CDS was the biggest drag on his performance in November, when he
lost 0.7 percent, according to the letter. Edoma had bought
similar contracts earlier in the year.  Martina Slowey, Edoma’s chief operating officer, declined
to comment on the firm’s performance.  Sze, 46, who ran Goldman Sachs’s principal strategies team
in  Asia  before briefly replacing Flamand as global head, left
the bank in 2010 to start Azentus Capital Management Ltd. in
 Hong Kong , hiring 13 former Goldman Sachs traders. His event-
driven fund lost about 4.8 percent through February since its
April 2011 inception, said a person with knowledge of its
returns.  Volcker Rule  Event-driven funds declined 2.4 percent in the same period,
while  hedge funds  fell 2.2 percent, data from Hedge Fund
Research show. The MSCI World Index lost 0.2 percent, including
dividends.  Roger Denby-Jones, Azentus’s chief operating officer,
declined to comment.  A track record of two years or less is a relatively short
period to judge a  fund manager . The Goldman alumni also suffered
in part because of a poor market for mergers and acquisitions,
and their performance may improve once deals pick up.  Flamand and Sze were among the first proprietary traders to
leave Goldman Sachs amid a debate in the  U.S. Congress  over
whether to rein in risk taking by banks in response to the 2008
credit crunch, which caused a $700 billion taxpayer rescue of
financial companies.  President  Barack Obama  signed legislation in July 2010 that
included a provision called the Volcker rule in reference to its
advocate, former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker . The
measure restricted banks with customer deposits backed by the
U.S. government from using their own money to make speculative
bets on markets.  Rubin’s Unit  While the Volcker rule isn’t scheduled to go into effect
until July of this year, Goldman Sachs decided within weeks of
its approval to shut down the principal strategies group. U.S.
lawmakers are now urging regulators to revise a draft of the
rule before the July 21 deadline imposed by Congress for its
implementation.  The principal strategies group, which managed about $11
billion, traces its roots to the risk-arbitrage team once led by
 Robert Rubin , who later became U.S. Treasury secretary. An
earlier wave of traders who left to start their own hedge funds
include Frank Brosens, co-founder of Taconic Capital Advisors
LP,  Eric Mindich  of Eton Park Capital Management LP and  Dinakar Singh  of TPG-Axon Capital Management LP.  Taconic  Brosens’s Taconic, which was started in June 1999, returned
7.6 percent that year, followed by a 16.7 percent return in
2000, according to investors. The fund grew to a peak of $10
billion in 2008 and now manages about $7.8 billion.  Mindich’s Eton Park, which was one of the industry’s
biggest startups when it began trading in November 2004 with
$3.5 billion, returned 2.3 percent in its first two months and
13 percent the following year, an investor said. Assets grew to
a 2007 peak of $14 billion and the firm now manages $12 billion.  TPG Axon’s Singh returned 13.9 percent in 2005, his first
year of trading, and 14.9 percent in 2006, investors said. His
fund grew to a peak of about $10 billion in 2008 and now manages
about $4.4 billion.  Taconic, Eton Park and TPG-Axon generated profits this year
after losing money in 2011, according to investors. Officials at
the New York-based firms declined to comment.  ‘Your Real Friends’  “I’ve spoken to Goldman traders who’ve told me they have a
network across the street and the world,” said Larry Chiarello,
a partner SkyView Investment Advisors LLC in Shrewsbury,  New
Jersey , which places money with hedge funds. “When you are at
Goldman sitting on a $10 billion prop desk, everyone is your
friend. When you are on your own at a hedge fund, you find out
who your real friends are.”  Flamand’s and Sze’s experience at Goldman Sachs, combined
with expectations for a pickup in corporate deals that event-
driven funds thrive on, helped attract investors. Edoma and
Azentus were among the biggest hedge-fund startups of the past
two years, each raising about $1 billion, said people familiar
with the matter, who asked not to be identified because the
companies are private.  At the start of 2011, the stage was set for event-driven
funds to outperform, said Dariush Aryeh, chief investment
officer of Fundana SA, a Geneva-based firm that advises clients
on investing in funds. The 1,600 companies in the MSCI World
Index were sitting on $4.4 trillion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, an amount that grew steadily as businesses hoarded
cash after the 2008 financial crisis.  ‘High Expectations’  Instead of spending the money on acquisitions, corporations
stayed on the sidelines in 2011, scared off by the risk of a
euro-zone collapse and wide swings in stock prices. MSCI
companies now have a cash pile of $5.5 trillion.  While surging stock prices this year have given firms added
firepower to pursue acquisitions, the pace of deals has yet to
pick up. The value of global mergers and acquisitions was $397.4
billion for 2012 through March 23, down from $499.5 billion in
the fourth quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “You would think that the economic environment has been
favorable for event-driven hedge funds to distinguish
themselves, but it’s not been that straightforward,” Aryeh
said. “Investors have had high expectations for three years
now.”  Facing Redemptions  Hedge-fund clients have become increasingly skeptical of
the strategy, according to a February survey by Credit Suisse
Group AG. Net demand for event-driven funds plunged to 18
percent at the start of this year, a figure derived by
subtracting the number of investors who say they intend to
redeem money from those who say they plan to add assets. Such
hedge funds had a net demand of 56 percent at the start of 2011,
topping all strategies in popularity, according to Zurich-based
Credit Suisse.  Event-driven (HFRIEDI)  funds were one of two strategies to suffer
client withdrawals last year, according to data from TrimTabs
Investment Research Inc. and BarclayHedge Ltd. Investors pulled
$2.8 billion, leaving the funds with about $170 billion. All
hedge funds together oversee about $2 trillion.  Flamand’s Edoma, which last year stopped accepting new
money, is now among the funds facing redemptions. Assets at the
firm peaked at about $2 billion last year, according to an
investor.  Mesirow Pulls  Clients that withdrew money include Mesirow Financial Inc.,
a Chicago-based hedge-fund investor with more than $14 billion
under management, according to two people familiar with the
matter, who asked not to be identified because the firm’s
investments are private. Greg Fedorinchik, a spokesman for
Mesirow, which manages $14 billion, declined to comment on the
redemptions.  The transition to running a hedge fund from trading at a
bank, where research and legal functions are managed by other
groups, can be a challenge for traders, according to Fabien Dersy, director of  investment management  at NewAlpha Asset
Management in Paris.  “A lot of guys have been helped while they were sitting at
investment banks,” said Dersy, whose firm invests in startup
hedge funds.  Fledging managers are often reluctant to make risky trades
out of concern that they may suffer outsized losses and wide
swings in monthly performance that may scare off investors, he
said.  Joining KKR  Instead of starting his own firm,  Bob Howard , who ran the
U.S. desk of Goldman Sachs’s principal strategies group, joined
KKR & Co. in 2010 to start the New York-based buyout firm’s
first hedge fund. The $422 million KKR Equity Strategies LP
fund, which started in August, lost 1.4 percent in its first
seven months, according to investors.  Howard, 40, outperformed other  equity hedge funds , which
lost 2.6 percent in the same period while the industry fell 1.5
percent, according to Hedge Fund Research. The MSCI World Index
gained 1 percent.  KKR gave Howard, a partner at the firm, $100 million to
start the fund, according to marketing documents. He brought 11
people from Goldman Sachs with him to the buyout firm. Kristi Huller, a KKR spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Howard said at a May conference in  New York  that he liked
vehicle-parts manufacturer Wabco Holdings Inc. and cable
television shopping-network operator HSN Inc. Wabco, based in
Piscataway, New Jersey, slumped 29 percent last year, while HSN
based in Saint Petersburg,  Florida , gained 18 percent.  Benros Fund  Other Goldman Sachs traders who stepped down from the
principal strategies unit include Benatoff, 32, and Roskis, 36.
They started trading at their London hedge fund, Benros Capital
Partners LLP, last June after receiving $300 million from
Brummer & Partners, a Stockholm-based asset-management firm. The
Benros Event Driven & Opportunistic Fund has lost about 1.7
percent in the nine months through February, according to
investors.  Benatoff and Roskis, who left Goldman Sachs last year,
declined to comment on the fund.  Aktug, 37, also quit the bank in 2011 after 12 years to
join  Pictet & Cie  in Geneva, according to a February marketing
document. She now manages the 78 million euro ($104.2 million)
Agora fund, which has lost 2.3 percent since its start in April
2011, according to a person with knowledge of her returns.  Aktug, after trading Pictet’s money for the past year, is
seeking to raise assets from outside clients for her event-
driven fund. She aims to produce average annual returns between
8 percent and 12 percent by mainly trading the stocks of the
biggest European companies, saying such firms have the
competitive advantages of scale, pricing power and healthy
balance sheets, according to the marketing document.  She declined to comment on the fund.  “It’s brave to put that out there, but hedge funds are
going to have to justify their existence and their fee
structure,” said SkyView’s Chiarello. “If you are not going to
strive for double-digit returns or at least high single digit in
this environment, then you are not going to be gathering
assets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  