-- Graco Wins Conditional FTC Approval for ITW Acquisition
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-03-27T18:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/graco-wins-conditional-ftc-approval-for-itw-acquisition-1-.html
Graco Inc. (GGG) , a paint equipment
manufacturer, won conditional approval from the Federal Trade
Commission for its proposed $650 million acquisition of  Illinois
Tool Works Inc. (ITW) ’s ITW Finishing LLC unit.  The FTC, which sued in December to block the deal, ordered
Graco to hold off from combining certain units of ITW Finishing
while it decides what divestitures it may require to protect
competition in the industry, the FTC said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Graco, based in  Minneapolis , has proposed a settlement to
the FTC, the company said in a statement today.  “We are looking forward to moving this transaction on to
the next phase, although the final structure remains under
consideration and will be impacted by requirements imposed by
the FTC,” said Patrick J. McHale, Graco’s chief executive
officer.  In its administrative action last year, the FTC claimed the
deal would reduce competition and lead to higher prices in the
liquid-finishing equipment industry. ITW’s liquid-finishing
equipment businesses operate under brands including Binks,
DeVilbiss, Ransburg and BGK. The FTC withdrew its challenge
March 13 so it could consider a settlement.  The order to continue operating the liquid-finishing units
separately allows Graco to combine a powder-finishing business
sold under the Gema brand, the company said. The order ensures
that the liquid-finishing assets remain viable until the
necessary assets can be divested, the FTC said.  ITW Finishing and Graco dominate the industry for equipment
used to put finishes on products ranging from cars to
appliances, according to the FTC, which said the transaction as
proposed would end the competition between Graco and Glenview,
Illinois-based Illinois Tool, raise prices and create a monopoly
in the market for circulation pumps used in automobile plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  