-- Gross Says Credit Expansion to Create Inflation, Slow Growth
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-03-27T20:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/gross-says-credit-expansion-to-create-inflation-slow-growth-1-.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said
continued credit expansion by central banks will produce
accelerating global inflation and slower growth.  Pimco favors shorter duration and inflation-protected debt,
as well as dividend-paying stocks with a preference for
developing markets, Gross said in his monthly investment outlook
posted on the  Newport Beach , California-based company’s  website 
today.  “When  interest rates  cannot be dramatically lowered
further or risk spreads significantly compressed, the momentum
begins to shift, not necessarily suddenly, but gradually yields
moving higher and spreads stabilizing or moving slightly
wider,” Gross, the founder of Pimco, wrote. “In such a mildly
reflationary world, unless you want to earn an inflation-
adjusted return of minus 2 percent to 3 percent as offered by
Treasury  bills,  then you must take risk in some form.”  The zero-bound interest rate  policies  of global central
banks including the  Federal Reserve  have caused investors to
face “financial repression” that reduces future returns on all
financial assets. Gross said the Fed’s easy money policy,
including expansion of its balance sheet through debt purchases,
raised the risk of future inflation cutting into bond returns.  The Fed  purchased  $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of s-
called quantitative easing that have become known as QE1 and QE2
as part of its efforts to support the world’s biggest economy.
Policy makers in January said they plan to keep their benchmark
interest rate near zero until at least the end of 2014.  ‘Mildly Reflation’  The Fed is “likely to hint” at QE3 at its April 25
gathering, Gross wrote on a Twitter posting earlier this week.
Gross serve as co-chief investment officer with Pimco Chief
Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian.  “In such a mildly reflation world where inflation itself
remains above 2 percent and in most cases moves higher,
delivering double-digit or even 7 to 8 percent total returns
from bonds, stocks and real estate becomes problematic and
certainly difficult,” Gross wrote. “Real growth as opposed to
financial wizardry becomes predominant. Commodities and real
assets become ascendant. Financial assets cannot be elevated by
zero-based interest rate or other tried but now tired policy
maneuvers that bring future wealth forward.”  Central bank policy makers upgraded the outlook for the
 U.S. economy  at their March 13 meeting, while they reiterated
their pledge to keep interest rates near zero until at least
late 2014.  Market Performance  Pimco’s $252 billion Total Return Fund reduced holdings of
Treasuries last month for the first time since February 2011,
when it cut its stake in the securities to zero.  Gross lowered the proportion of U.S. government securities
in the fund to 37 percent of assets from 38 percent in January,
according to a report on the company’s  website . He raised
mortgages to 52 from 50 percent.  The Total Return Fund earned 2.5 percent for investors this
year, beating about 96 percent of its competitors, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund has lost 0.09 percent over
one month, topping 66 percent of rivals, the data shows.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.35 trillion of assets as of September.  Russian Debt  The five-year notes that  Russia  plans to sell offer more
value than U.S. Treasuries of the same maturity, Gross said in
an CNBC interview today.  While Pimco said 10 years ago that it wouldn’t buy Russian
debt, the risk is now offset by the reward of the higher yields,
Gross said. He still is concerned about the rule of law in
Russia, Gross said in the televised interview.  Russia may sell $3 billion of dollar-denominated bonds due
in 2042, which may be priced to yield between 250 and 255 basis
points more than Treasuries, according to a banker with
knowledge of the deal, who declined to be identified because the
transaction isn’t public yet. The  Finance Ministry  is also
offering $2 billion of five-year notes at 230 to 235 basis
points over Treasuries and $2 billion in 10-year debt at a
spread from 240 to 245 basis points, or 2.45 percentage points,
the banker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  