-- Ex-Goldman Director Gupta Loses Wiretap Suppression Bid
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-03-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/gupta-judge-denies-bid-to-suppress-rajaratnam-wiretaps.html
Rajat Gupta , the former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director indicted on  insider trading  charges,
won a court order requiring prosecutors to share information
from securities regulators that might help show he’s innocent
and lost a bid to suppress wiretap evidence.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in New York, who is
presiding over both Gupta’s criminal case and a parallel suit
brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, ordered
the SEC to turn over memos and notes on interviews of 44
witnesses to prosecutors for review. Rakoff said that if
prosecutors find evidence that can be used to exonerate Gupta,
it must be turned over to the defense team.  “Where the government and another agency decide to
investigate the facts of a case together -- such as in these 44
witness interviews -- the government has an obligation to review
the documents arising from those joint efforts to determine
whether” some material must be disclosed, Rakoff wrote.  Five pretrial rulings by Rakoff in the criminal case were
made public yesterday, including one denying Gupta’s bid to
dismiss three of the counts in his indictment on the grounds
they were vague or duplicative.  In a separate filing, prosecutors disclosed additional
details about their case against Gupta, who is accused of
passing tips to Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam
about earnings at Goldman Sachs and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , where
Gupta was also a director.  Prosecutors yesterday named two Galleon traders who they
say participated in a conspiracy with Gupta and Rajaratnam. The
names of six other alleged co-conspirators were redacted under
the judge’s orders.  Cardillo, Horowitz  Gupta, the one-time McKinsey & Co. leader, was charged by
 Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office in October. He
has pleaded not guilty and is scheduled to go on trial May 21.
His lawyer.  Gary Naftalis , declined to comment on Rakoff’s
rulings.  Rajaratnam, who was convicted of insider trading by a jury
last year, is serving an 11-year prison term.  In the prosecution filing, assistant U.S. attorneys Reed Brodsky and Richard Tarlowe named former Galleon trader Michael Cardillo, and  Ian Horowitz , Rajaratnam’s personal trader, as two
of the eight alleged co-conspirators in the insider-trading
scheme.  Horowitz hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing. Cardillo, who
pleaded guilty in January 2011 to securities fraud and
conspiracy, testified at the trial of Zvi Goffer, a former
Galleon trader, Emanuel Goffer and Michael Kimelman. Cardillo
hasn’t been sentenced.  ‘Tangible’ Benefit  Prosecutors also said Gupta’s friendship and business
relationship with Rajaratnam may have motivated him to pass tips
to the hedge  fund manager . After Gupta lost money in an
investment with Rajaratnam, the U.S. said he continued to pass
on inside information, hoping to recoup some or all of his
losses.  “Gupta perceived Rajaratnam to be a billionaire and the
head of a multi-billion dollar, highly successful hedge fund
with significant connections around the world,” Brodsky and
Tarlowe wrote.  “As a result, Gupta anticipated that a strong personal and
business relationship with Rajaratnam would benefit Gupta in
tangible and intangible ways,” prosecutors said.  Brodsky and Tarlowe also identified a total of nine
different tips that Gupta allegedly passed to Rajaratnam from
2007 until Jan. 30, 2009.  Rakoff said in his ruling on the wiretaps that secret
recordings by the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation during its
investigation of the fund manager can be used in Gupta’s
prosecution for the same reason that U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell allowed their use in Rajaratnam’s trial last year.  ‘No Arguments’  “Gupta offers no arguments different from the arguments
Judge Holwell considered in the Rajaratnam case,” Rakoff said.
“He argues instead that Judge Holwell’s conclusions are in
error. The court disagrees.”  Like Holwell, Rakoff said that wiretaps can be used to
investigate wire fraud cases.  “The simple truth is that, in both this and numerous other
cases, insider trading cannot often be detected, let alone
successfully prosecuted, without the aid of wiretaps,” Rakoff
said.  Gupta’s defense lawyers will still have an opportunity to
challenge particular Rajaratnam wiretapped recordings before
trial on the grounds that they shouldn’t be admitted as evidence
because he wasn’t a participant in the conversations.  Questioning Blankfein  In another ruling, Rakoff also granted Gupta’s lawyers two
additional hours to question Goldman Sachs Chief Executive
Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  under oath, as part of the SEC suit
against Gupta and Rajaratnam.  Blankfein, a prosecution witness at the Rajaratnam insider-
trading trial, was questioned by Gupta’s lawyers on Feb. 24 as
part of the parallel SEC lawsuit.  During the first session, SEC lawyers objected to questions
posed by Naftalis about the government’s preparation of
Blankfein for his testimony, citing a legal rule barring Gupta
from discovering information about the government’s legal
strategy and the thought processes of its lawyers.  Blankfein said during the February deposition that
prosecutors and SEC lawyers prepared him for the session before
he was questioned under oath by Gupta’s lawyers, a transcript
shows.  Gupta’s Defense Team  Rakoff granted Naftalis permission to resume questioning
Blankfein about these preparations and require the SEC to
provide Gupta with the documents the U.S. showed Blankfein
during the sessions.  Gupta also lost a bid for dismissal of a charge alleging
that Rajaratnam bought at least 350,000 shares of Goldman Sachs
in March 2007 after getting a tip from Gupta. His lawyers argued
the count should be thrown out because the indictment didn’t say
he communicated with Rajaratnam before the trade.  Rakoff also denied a request by Rajaratnam to get access to
any SEC memos after they have been reviewed by prosecutors and
turned over to Gupta.  Gupta faces as long as 20 years in prison if convicted of
any of the securities fraud charges against him and as long as
five years if convicted of conspiracy. He also faces a fine of
as much as $5 million, prosecutors said.  Revised Indictment  In a revised indictment filed in January, prosecutors
expanded their description of the insider-trading scheme, saying
it began in March 2007, not in 2008, as the U.S. alleged when
Gupta was first charged in October.  Prosecutors also added a charge stemming from a March 12,
2007, conference call during which Goldman Sachs’s pending
earnings announcement was discussed. Gupta tipped Rajaratnam
after listening to a Goldman Sachs board meeting while at
Galleon’s offices, the U.S. said.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-907, U.S. District Court,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net  