-- Libor Flatlines as Europe-Wary See Stress: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-03-27T15:44:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/libor-flatlines-as-europe-wary-see-stress-credit-markets.html
Stresses in the global financial
system have stopped easing as European policy makers signal
they’re unlikely to extend a third round of unlimited loans to
the region’s banks and as bond yields in Spain and  Portugal 
begin to rise again.  The three-month London interbank offered rate has held at
about 0.47 percent every day in March, after sliding from this
year’s high of 0.58 percent on Jan. 3. Measures from interest-
rate swap spreads to the relative yields on short-term bonds
sold by the world’s biggest banks also show the health of the
financial system isn’t improving.  Former European Central Bank Governing Council member Axel Weber said yesterday financial institutions shouldn’t count on
additional three-year loans following more than 1 trillion euros
($1.3 trillion) in two long-term refinancing operations
beginning in December. Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  warned
that Spain may reignite the debt crisis, while Portugal bond
yields are at levels suggesting traders expect another bailout.  “The compression in the Libor spreads is running out of
steam,” said  Vincent Chaigneau , global head of interest-rate
strategy at Societe Generale SA in Paris. “The LTROs have done
a great deal in reducing the  liquidity risk , but now the feeling
is that probably the ECB is not going to repeat that. Some
members of the ECB council are getting uncomfortable with all
the liquidity created.”  Default Swaps Fall  Predictions in the forward market for the gap between the
dollar Libor and overnight index swaps, or  FRA/OIS (USFOSC1)  spreads,
beginning in June averaged 33 basis points this month, according
to UBS AG data. The spread was as high as 59 basis points in
December.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. declined, with the
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors
use to hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreasing 0.3 basis point to a mid-price of 89 basis points as
of 11:40 a.m. in  New York , according to Markit Group Ltd.  Series 18 of the benchmark, which is reconstituted each
September and March, started last week.  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Tasc Loan  Bonds of  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America
Corp. , are the most actively traded U.S. corporate securities by
dealers today, with 89 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:43
a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The
second-largest  U.S. bank  by assets sold $1.25 billion of 3.875
percent, five-year debt on March 19.  Tasc Inc., a provider of systems engineering and advisory
services, increased the size of a  term loan  it’s seeking to
refinance a portion of the company’s senior subordinated notes
due 2016 to $75 million from $65 million, said a person with
knowledge of the transaction.  The debt due in 2015 will pay interest at 3.25 percentage
points more than Libor, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the terms are private. Libor will have a 1.25
percent minimum. Chantilly, Virginia-based Tasc is proposing to
sell the loan at 98 cents on the dollar, compared with 98 cents
to 98.5 cents originally offered, the person said, reducing
proceeds for the company and boosting the yield to investors.  Greece Bailout  While three-month dollar Libor fell almost 6 basis points
in February, ending the month at 0.4843 percentage points, the
borrowing benchmark has declined only about 1 basis point since.
Libor, the rate at which banks say they can borrow in dollars
from each other, serves as a reference for about $360 trillion
of financial instruments worldwide.  The ECB’s second LTRO round and  Greece ’s 130 billion-euro
bailout drove declines in February, said Carlos Pro, interest-
rate strategist in New York at Credit Suisse Group AG in New
York. Greece is working to reduce national debt to 120 percent
of gross domestic product by 2020 from 160 percent last year.  “Those were two big catalysts for funding markets moves in
terms of actual funding and confidence,” Pro said in a
telephone interview. “In March, I don’t see any big catalyst
ahead, so it’s only natural to see Libor coming down at a
significantly more moderate pace.”  Rate Swap Spreads  The gap of Libor over the federal funds rate, known as the
Libor-OIS spread, has held at about 0.33 percentage point for
the last two weeks, following a slide from 0.5 in January.  Interest-rate swap spreads, a gauge of fear in debt
markets, have traded between about 24 and 29 basis points since
March 1, ending a contraction from 52.1 basis points in
December. The measure was at 23.81 as of 11:36 a.m. in New York.  Swap spreads are based in part on expectations for Libor
and are used as a gauge of investor perceptions of credit risk.
Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types of
debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  The extra yield investors demand to hold bank bonds
maturing in one to three years rather than  government securities 
has climbed to 213 basis points after reaching 208 on March 20,
the lowest since August, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. The index has declined from this year’s high
of 330 on Jan. 3.  ‘Counterproductive’ Assumption  “I would find it very counterproductive and
counterintuitive if banks were to assume that as these two
operations have materialized that there was more to come,”
Weber said at an event in Paris yesterday. “The working
assumption that the ECB will always be there I don’t think is a
good assumption.”  Monti noted  Spain ’s struggle to control its finances before
a finance ministers meeting in Copenhagen starting on March 30,
where officials will seek agreement to raise a 500 billion-euro
ceiling on bailout funding.  “It doesn’t take much to recreate risks of contagion,”
Monti said during the weekend at a conference in Cernobbio,
 Italy . Days after his Cabinet approved a bill to overhaul
Italy’s labor laws, Monti praised Spain’s efforts to loosen work
regulations while advising it to focus on cutting the national
budget. Spain “hasn’t paid enough attention to its public
accounts,” he said.  Spain, Portugal  Yields on Spanish 10-year bonds have declined to 5.36
percent from 5.37 percent. The yield reached 7.07 percent in
November. Yields on Portugal’s benchmark bond are 11.45 percent
and reached as high as 17.39 percent on Jan. 30.  Rising overnight funding rates have also contributed to
Libor’s stagnating, according to Kenneth Silliman, head of U.S.
short-term rates trading at Toronto Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities unit in New York.  The  Fed Fund effective rate , a volume-weighted average on
trades by major brokers published daily by the  Federal Reserve
Bank of New York , was at 0.14 percent as of March 26, up from
0.04 percent at the end of last year.  Banks among those that submit rates daily to the British
Bankers’ Association for their daily Libor fixing may face
ratings cuts, contributing to the halt in the gauge’s slide,
said  Alex Roever , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s head of short-term
fixed-income strategy.  Libor Litigation  Moody’s Investors Service said Feb. 16 it was reviewing 17
banks and securities firms with global capital markets
operations for downgrades, including Morgan Stanley, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan, Citigroup, and Bank of America.  “There is a fair amount of confusion stemming from the
credit of several banks in the Libor panel being on review by
Moody’s for a potential downgrade,” Roever said in a telephone
interview. “There is some question of what might happen there.
It is not creating enough anxiety to push the rates out, but
it’s not letting them come in either.”  Libor also has come under scrutiny in a series of lawsuits
in which investors accused banks represented on the Libor panel
of distorting market prices by hiding the banks’ true borrowing
costs.  The spread between  Euribor (EUR003M) , the rate at which European
banks say they see each other lending in euros, and the  average
cost  of their funding, priced to  June (EUFOSC1)  in the forward market is
27.4 basis point, down from 51.8 basis points at the start of
the month.  The one-year cross-currency basis swap used to convert euro
based funding into those denominated in dollars shrank to 42
basis points below the euro interbank offered rate today, which
reduced the premium traders are paying from dollar loans from 57
basis points on March 1.  “The combination of higher competing money-market yields
and no real improvement in sentiment, even though there wasn’t a
deterioration, since the second LTRO hasn’t been enough to push
Libor rates lower,” Silliman said. “Libor does certainly
correlate to where banks are getting funding but it clearly has
a sentiment component. For now we think it is going to be
minimal moves in Libor and we have a bias towards wider swap
spreads.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  