-- Iceland Targets Wealth Funds as New Law Hits Bondholders
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-03-27T10:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/iceland-targets-wealth-funds-as-new-law-hits-bondholders.html
Iceland wants to target wealth
funds from  China  and  Norway  next time it sells debt to foreign
investors after fixing its krona controls to prevent some
bondholders getting their returns in other currencies.  The parliament’s March 13 agreement to backtrack on a
program to ease currency controls by targeting debt investors it
characterized as speculators won’t affect Iceland’s ability to
tap international bond markets in the future, Economy Minister
Steingrimur J. Sigfusson said.  “Investors will focus more on how the economy has been
developing and the status of Iceland’s finances today and how
we’ve continued to reach results,” he said in an interview in
Reykjavik.  Iceland returned to international bond markets last June
with a $1 billion sale, marking a milestone in the island’s
recovery from its 2008 meltdown. It was the nation’s first such
sale since its banks defaulted on $85 billion in debt, an event
that plunged the $13 billion economy into a recession and pushed
 unemployment  up nine-fold. The government says it may sell 10-
year bonds to build a yield curve, even though its $9 billion in
 currency reserves  means it doesn’t need the funds.  The June dollar bond was more than twice oversubscribed,
and the yield on the five-year issue has dropped to about 4.6
percent from almost 5 percent when first sold. The difference in
yield on the 4.875 percent bond due June 2016 and the U.S.
Treasury curve has narrowed to about 355 basis points from 422
basis points at the end of last year.  ‘Can’t Hide’  The yield on the five-year dollar note jumped seven basis
points today, to 4.63 percent, according to Bloomberg generic
pricing.  “We were very satisfied with the demand” in the last
sale, “not least from large funds, some located on the west
coast of the  United States ,” Sigfusson said in the March 23
interview. “I can’t hide the fact that I think it would be
alright if the Norwegian oil fund and the Chinese would also
purchase our debts.”  Iceland may struggle to attract private investors after
this month’s move to tighten capital control, according to
Islandsbanki hf Head of Economic Research Ingolfur Bender.  Parliament agreed this month to remove a loophole from its
capital controls to prevent bondholders in inflation-linked
bonds from getting paid in foreign currencies. The law also
blocks investors in krona-denominated bonds from tapping
 currency markets  to exchange their returns. The benchmark 2014
HFF krona-denominated mortgage bond slumped 14 percent the day
the law was passed.  ‘Convince Investors’  Targeting bondholders with stricter capital controls “will
come at some cost” to Iceland’s debt markets, Bender said in a
note the same day. “It will probably be more difficult to
convince investors wishing to invest in Iceland.”  According to Sigfusson, investors will be able to
distinguish between past events and the island’s future
intentions.  “In regards to the capital controls, general investors
that are interested in investing in the job sector or something
else are likely to be startled, until they look into the matter
more closely,” he said. “Once they do that, they’ll see that
the capital controls don’t apply to any new investments and the
return on those investments can come and go as it pleases.”  Iceland’s economy will expand 2.5 percent this year, the
 International Monetary Fund  said March 2. That compares with a
0.3 percent contraction in the 17-member euro area, the European
Commission said Feb. 23. The  U.S. economy  will grow 2.2 percent
in 2012, the  World Bank  said Jan. 18.  Iceland’s central bank last week raised its main  interest
rate  a quarter of a percentage point to 5 percent as it exits
crisis management mode and steers the island’s recovery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  