-- Tiger Woods Is Lousy Tipper; Knicks’ Dazzling Days: Books
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 2012-03-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/tiger-woods-is-lousy-tipper-knicks-dazzling-days-books.html
On the course,  Tiger Woods  seems
almost perfect, and yet there are flaws in his swing, defects in
his putting game. He seems so carefree, yet he is riddled with
doubts. He seems so controlled, yet there is so much about
himself that he cannot control.  His is a familiar story -- the perfect guy who turns out to
be a lout, the perfect marriage that turns out to be a sham --
but the tale told by his former golf coach,  Hank Haney , puts it
all in a different perspective.  Haney calls his memoir “ The Big Miss ” (Crown Archetype,
$26), which is the phrase golfers use to describe bad shots and
blown opportunities. Tiger has had a few of those -- although he
finally pulled out of his deepest golf rut, winning the Arnold
Palmer Invitational Sunday for his first victory on the U.S. PGA
tour in 2 1/2 years.  This volume provides the view from the clubhouse and from
Tiger’s house, and it is of a splendid athlete whose greatest
gift, and his greatest flaw, is his ability to keep his emotions
in check.  “Whether with friends, business associates, other players,
his mother, or his wife -- indeed, with just about everyone
except an audience of kids at one of his clinics -- he seemed to
keep the atmosphere around him emotionally arid,” Haney writes.  This is no feel-good story with a happy ending. Indeed, at
the end, the coach offers a sobering assessment: “I’m sure what
Tiger went through will mature him as a person,” he says, “but
there’s no guarantee that it will help him as a golfer.”  Plus this: He’s a terrible tipper, from the blackjack
tables of  Las Vegas  to restaurants and locker rooms.  ‘When the Garden Was Eden’  By any measure the  New York Knicks  of the mid 1960s were a
forgettable bunch, the mediocrities if not miscreants of the
hard court, legends only for their mastery of futility.  Then everything changed. In “ When the Garden Was Eden ”
(Harper, $26.99), New York Times columnist  Harvey Araton 
describes the way Red Holzman assembled “the perfect blend of
basketball brainpower and abilities.”  It was a team that changed the  National Basketball
Association , changed New York, changed the way we look at
professional sports and changed each of the players, a dazzling
list: Willis Reed, Walt Frazier,  Bill Bradley ,  Phil Jackson ,
Dick Barnett and Dave DeBusschere.  Young enough to be affected by (or drafted into) the
 Vietnam War , diverse enough to be centerpieces in the racial
tensions of the times, they nonetheless emerged as what Araton
calls “the most democratic team in professional basketball
history.”  More than that, they became a symbol of unity at a time of
great division, even after some of those tensions threatened to
split the team, even when injuries threatened their dominion.  These men added a brilliant coda to a New York era when the
Mets won the  World Series  and the Jets won the  Super Bowl .  “Only the Knicks could unite the metropolis,” Araton
writes. “Only they could link the lunch-pail commuters of the
outer boroughs with downtown’s wealthiest power brokers, the
denizens of Harlem with those made famous by Hollywood.”  ‘Out of My League’  Dirk Hayhurst’s struggles -- and his triumph -- were of a
different kind. His memoir, “ Out of My League ” (Citadel,
$24.95), is an insider’s story of the day-to-day life of a
baseball player striving to make the Bigs and then, for a very
short time, making it big.  It’s a story of cheap red-eye flights, rushing to minor-
league clubhouses to snatch the better uniforms, racing to
Goodwill to assemble a travel outfit, struggling to get a new
apartment in a new town, looking in the fridge and finding
little more than a six-pack of beer, a jug of milk, some diet
colas and boxes of instant mac and cheese. Yum! What a life!  View From the Mound  There are moments of insight and humor, especially from
Hayhurst’s position on the pitcher’s mound.  “In my line of work,” he writes, “there is always
someone with a bat standing between me and my goal.”  On his first time pitching in the majors: “I was naked and
scared, stranded atop that patch of red dirt like an orphaned
child.”  There is pathos, too, for Hayhurst didn’t earn much in the
minors and he didn’t hang around long in the majors. Yet through
it all, there is a certain charm to his innocence. He’s not
sure, for example, whether he can take one of the packets of Fig
Newtons in the players’ area. He’s not even sure what to do
when, in his first major-league at-bat, he draws a walk.  “First base is that way,” the umpire tells him. “Yeah,
r-right,” he answers. “Thank you, sir.”  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 