-- Illumina, Myriad, Apple, Pinterest: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-03-27T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/illumina-myriad-egis-apple-pinterest-intellectual-property.html
Columbia University’s trustees sued
the biotechnology analysis firm  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  and accuse it of
infringing five U.S. patents for gene sequencing used in medical
research.  Illumina is wrongly using the protected technology,
assigned to  New York ’s Columbia, the school said in a complaint
filed yesterday in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  The patents, awarded since 2009, “are important to ongoing
genomics research and discovery, particularly in the emerging
field of personalized medicine, which seeks to use a patient’s
own genomic DNA sequence information as the basis for
individualized health care,” the university said.  Illumina, based in San Diego, is the subject of a $5.7
billion hostile takeover bid by Switzerland’s  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ,
an offer that expires on April 20, at $44.50 a share.  Columbia asked the court to award damages based on
reasonable royalties and for an order to stop the infringement.  “We believe these claims are without merit, and we will
defend against them vigorously,” Jennifer Temple, an Illumina
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is Columbia v. Illumina, 1:12-cv-00376, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Myriad’s Human-Gene Patent Rehearing Ordered by High Court  The  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  ordered a lower court to revisit
whether human genes can be patented in light of the justices
March 20 decision that limited the ability to obtain legal
protection for some diagnostic medical tests.  The justices yesterday ordered the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Federal Circuit to reconsider its decision that allowed
patents on genetic material used in  Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN) ’s tests
for breast and ovarian cancer.  The high court on March 20 said that patents shouldn’t be
allowed on tests that look at such things as the proper dosage
for a medicine based on a body’s reaction to a drug. The Federal
Circuit, which specializes in U.S. patent law, must consider the
effect of that ruling on the Myriad patents.  The March 20 decision involved a dispute between Nestle
SA’s Prometheus unit and units of the  Mayo Clinic  and whether
certain types of diagnostic tests met the threshold of
eligibility for a patent. A June 2010 decision by the  Supreme
Court  also addressed what types of inventions qualify for legal
protection.  Myriad said the case doesn’t involve all of its patents
that cover the screening tests. Still, the company said, it
would defend the claims that are the subject of the lawsuit.  The Myriad case pits the biotechnology industry, which
supports gene patents, against an array of opponents --including
doctors, researchers and patients -- who say gene patents will
stifle innovation and improperly permit a monopoly on part of
the human body.  The opponent group, whose legal team includes the American
Civil Liberties Union, is pressing a test case against Salt Lake
City-based Myriad. The company makes tests for the hereditary
risk of breast and ovarian cancer.  The central legal issue is whether so-called isolated DNA -
- genetic coding that has been removed from the body and
separated from other material -- is a product of nature and thus
ineligible for patent protection under previous Supreme Court
rulings.  In court papers, Myriad has argued that “human
intervention” brings isolated DNA within the scope of the U.S.
patent laws. The company says the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office has issued 2,645 patents for isolated DNA over the past
30 years.  The case is Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad
Genetics, 11-725.  Egis Added as Defendant in AstraZeneca-Watson Laboratories Case  Egis Gyogyszergyar Nyrt (EGIS) , the Hungarian drugmaker owned by
Laboratoires Servier, was added as a defendant in a 2010 U.S.
patent litigation case between plaintiff  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  and
defendant Watson Laboratories Inc.  The case involved AstraZeneca’s patented technology for its
cholesterol-lowering drug  Crestor . In dispute is AstraZeneca’s
patent RE37,314.  “Egis will vigorously defend the claims against it and
further informs its business partners that the complaint does
not seek a monetary damage award against Egis,” the Budapest-
based company said in a statement to the Budapest bourse.  The case is AstraZeneca UK Ltd. v.  Watson Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (WPI) , 1:10-cv-00915-LPS, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  3M Wins Right to Challenge Avery Dennison Road Sign Patents  3M Co. (MMM) ’s patent suit against Avery Dennison Corp. was
improperly dismissed, a federal appeals court said yesterday.  The suit was part of a series of patent cases between the
two companies related to reflecting sheeting for road signs. St.
Paul, Minnesota-based 3M filed the suit in federal court in
September 2010, seeking a declaration it didn’t infringe some of
Avery Dennison’s patents.  The Washington-based U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit, which hears appeals of patent cases, said the trial
judge erred by dismissing the suit.  The appeals court said trial judge erred by saying the
controversy between the two companies hadn’t yet reached the
point at which litigation was appropriate and by dismissing the
case.  According to court papers, a lawyer for Pasadena,
California-based Avery told a 3M lawyer in 2009 that 3M’s
DiamondGrade DG product line “may infringe” its patents, and
that “licenses are available.” 3M filed the suit in response.  Although Avery had argued that discussion alone wasn’t
enough to warrant the suit to challenge patents, the appeals
court said the trial judge should consider the issue.  John A. Dragseth of Boston’s  Fish & Richardson PC (1357L)  argued
the case for 3M. Avery’s case was argued by David L. Bilsker of
Los Angeles-based  Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP (496224L) .  The lower court case is 3M Co. v.  Avery Dennison Corp. (AVY) 
0:10-cv-03849-MJD-FLN, U.S. District Court, District of
Minnesota (Minneapolis). The appeal is 3M Co. v. Avery Dennis
Corp, 11-01339, U.S. Court Of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
( Washington ).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Tougher China Trademark Laws Might Have Hurt Apple’s IPad Fight  China  is proposing improvements to its 30-year-old
trademark law that help household names from abroad better
protect their rights.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , in its dispute over the iPad
name, might be better off without the reforms.  Government proposals for tackling “the rampant problem of
trademark squatting” include doubling the maximum damages for
infringers to 1 million yuan ($158,539). Since a court already
ruled that Apple doesn’t own the iPad name in China, the company
would be on the wrong side of the sanctions, said Caroline
Berube, an intellectual property lawyer in the southern Chinese
city of Guangzhou.  The Apple case “is another example of why multinationals
need to do their diligence and tread cautiously in China as
domestic companies have become much more savvy about protecting
and exploiting IP rights,” Steve Rizzi, the former head of the
China practice  for Milwaukee-based  Foley & Lardner LLP (1125L) , said in
an e-mail.  Apple’s appeal that it, and not Hong Kong-listed display
maker  Proview International Holdings Ltd. (334) , owns the iPad name in
China will hinge on contract law rather than trademark law, the
lawyers said. A decision from a Guangzhou court is due by the
end of May, and the new trademark law won’t be voted on until
next year’s national legislature at the earliest, said Berube,
of HJM Asia Law & Co.  Apple, which won a lawsuit against Shenzhen-based New Apple
Concept Daily Technology Co. in 2008 for using an apple in its
logo, started its legal battle with Proview in 2010, the same
year it introduced the iPad tablet. A court in Shenzhen, across
the border from  Hong Kong , ruled against Apple last year, saying
the purchase agreement for the trademarks featured the wrong
Proview unit.  “As a company that generates a lot of intellectual
property we would never knowingly abuse someone else’s
trademarks,” Carolyn Wu, Apple’s Beijing-based spokeswoman,
said in a statement. She declined to comment on the proposed
laws and how they would have affected the iPad case.  The Cupertino, California-based company argued that at
least three employees of the Proview unit owning the trademarks
had participated in negotiations leading to the sale.  Separately, Apple has sued Proview founder Rowell Yang in
Hong Kong for conspiring with his companies to breach the sale
agreement. That case is in the pre-trial phase.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Pinterest Revises Use Terms, Says It Won’t Sell Users’ Content  Pinterest, the Palo Alto, California-based social media
company that provides a venue for users to share information
about items of interest, has changed its terms of use to clarify
the rights of users to the content they post.  In a March 23  blog posting , Pinterest said its original
terms of use agreement allowed the company to sell content
posted by users. The company said that “selling content was
never our intention and we removed this from our updated
terms.”  Pinterest said it has developed “simpler tools” for
anyone to report copyright or trademark infringement. And in
wake of  concerns about pro-anorexia “thinspiration” postings 
made by some, Pinterest said it won’t allow postings “that
explicitly encourage self-harm or self-abuse.”  For copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Former Righthaven CEO Steven Gibson Moves to Dickinson Wright  Dickinson Wright PLLC (1324L)  now has former Righthaven LLC chief
executive officer listed as a partner, according to the Detroit-
based firm’s website.  Steven A. Gibson  led Las Vegas-based Righthaven, which was
formed to enforce copyrights for newspapers owned by Las Vegas-
based Stephens Media Group. Although Righthaven filed about 200
copyright-infringement cases in 2010,  courts generally took a
dim view , finding that Stephens still retained control over some
aspects of the copyright, and therefore that Righthaven lacked
standing to sue.  According to his biography listed on the Dickinson Wright
website, Gibson has represented media, software-development and
gaming/casino companies in intellectual property and technology-
related disputes. Before he was with Righthaven, Gibson
practiced law in  Japan  and with  Chicago ’s  Sidley Austin LLP (1119L) .  Gibson has an undergraduate degree from the University of
Louisville and a law degree from Chicago-Kent College of Law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 