-- India Said to Plan Using Foreign Currency for Iran Oil Deals
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2012-03-28T06:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/india-said-to-plan-iran-oil-deals-in-foreign-currency-until-june.html
India  may continue paying for
 Iranian (OPCRIRAN)  oil in foreign currencies until European Union sanctions
take effect in July, when buyers will start using rupees,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  India will waive taxes on rupee-payments for crude, it said
in its March 16 budget. That raised speculation refiners will
start settling its oil bill with  Iran  in local currency to avoid
international sanctions. While India could start paying for
about 45 percent of the oil in rupees from next month, the
countries prefer to settle trades in foreign tender such as
euros, the people said, declining to be identified because the
information is confidential.  “We have been bearish on the rupee and this is just
another reason to sell the currency,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a
Singapore-based currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,
 Australia ’s second-biggest lender. “The news is indeed negative
for the rupee as it will increase demand for dollars in an
already tight environment and further pressure the central
bank’s reserves.”  The rupee weakened as much as 0.6 percent to 51.0250 a
dollar and was at 50.9225 at 11:32 a.m. in Mumbai.  R.C. Joshi, a spokesman for India’s oil ministry in New
Delhi, didn’t return two calls made to his mobile phone seeking
comment. Mohsen Qamsari, head of international affairs at the
National Iranian Oil Co., was not available to comment when
called at his office in Tehran.  International Sanctions  India, Iran’s second-biggest oil customer, is trying to
maintain bilateral trade in the face of escalating economic and
financial measures against the Islamic Republic over its nuclear
program, which the U.S. and its allies say is a cover to make
atomic weapons. Iran says the program is for civilian purposes.  The South Asian nation, which relies on imports for almost
80 percent of its oil requirements, has faced difficulties
finding banks willing to transfer payments to Iran since the
 Reserve Bank  of India in December 2010 dismantled a mechanism to
settle trade in euros and dollars.  Increased pressure from the U.S. could lead Indian refiners
to start rupee payments earlier than planned, before the EU
sanctions take effect, the people said.  India’s rupee payments to Iran may total at least $4
billion a year, and will be deposited in India’s state-run  UCO
Bank (UCO) , which doesn’t have U.S. operations and is unlikely to be
affected by the global sanctions, one of the people said.
Payments in foreign currencies are preferred because the rupee
cannot be directly converted abroad.  Rupee Drop  The  Indian rupee  has dropped 12 percent over the past 12
months, making it the worst performer among  Asia ’s most-traded
currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has
fallen 3.8 percent this month, the data show.  While India proposed paying for oil in rupees, Iranian
officials have sought partial payment in yen because they’re
concerned that they may not get sufficient value from the
currency, three people with knowledge of the talks said Jan. 23.  Transactions are now routed through Ankara-based  Turkiye
Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) , which has told Indian refiners it may no longer
be able to act as an intermediary when European sanctions take
effect, four people with knowledge of the matter said Jan. 10.  U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s administration wants  China ,
India and 10 other nations to present plans detailing how they
will curtail Iranian oil imports, saying past cuts aren’t enough
to win them an exclusion from new U.S. sanctions.  While India hasn’t asked its refiners to stop purchasing
Iranian crude, the government has told processors in the South
Asian nation to seek alternative supplies and gradually reduce
dependence on the Persian Gulf state because of increasing
pressure from the U.S., three Indian officials with direct
knowledge of the situation said March 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  