-- Indonesia Prepares for Mass Protests Against Fuel-Price Rise
-- B y   F e m i   A d i
-- 2012-03-27T03:42:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/indonesia-prepares-for-mass-protests-against-fuel-price-rise.html
Indonesia  deployed 22,000 police
and military personnel across the nation’s capital in
anticipation of mass protests against a government proposal to
raise the price of subsidized fuel by 33 percent.  About 8,000 Indonesian college students, members of labor
unions, non-government organizations and political parties are
expected to take to the streets in Jakarta today to demonstrate
against a plan to raise the price of diesel and low-octane
gasoline to 6,000 rupiah (65 U.S. cents) per liter from 4,500
rupiah per liter.  “The protesters will be in strategic locations such as
around the House of Representatives in South Jakarta, the Hotel
Indonesia circle and the presidential palace in Central
Jakarta,” Rikwanto, a spokesman for the Jakarta police, said by
phone today.  Surging  oil prices  led  China  to boost fuel costs the most
in more than two years this month and have added pressure on
nations from Indonesia to  India  to raise tariffs. The proposed
increase being debated by the Indonesian parliament may cause
 inflation  to double to 7 percent by year-end, National Economic
Committee Vice Chairman M. Chatib Basri said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television in  Hong Kong  on March 23.  Security forces had set up water cannons, local television
stations had set up satellite trucks and about 100 protesters
had gathered in the main traffic circle in central Jakarta by
10:15 a.m. Regular vehicle traffic was unimpeded.  Indonesia’s legislature will vote March 29 on the
government’s proposed revisions to the 2012 budget, which
include the fuel-price increases.  Inflation  Raising the price by 1,500 rupiah per liter may boost
inflation to 6.8 percent this year,  Bank Indonesia  Governor
Darmin Nasution said March 8. Consumer prices rose 3.56 percent
last month from a year earlier, the least in 23 months.  The central bank has said it will respond to a surge in
costs if needed. Bank Indonesia has cut  interest rates  by one
percentage point to 5.75 percent in three moves since the start
of October 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  