-- Investors Hesitate as Frontier Market Myanmar Faces Election
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-03-28T02:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/investors-hesitate-as-frontier-market-myanmar-faces-elections.html
Myanmar’s emergence as  Asia ’s next
tiger economy is more potential than reality as a rush of
investors finds little to spend money on besides a limited
supply of hotel rooms after six decades of isolation.  “Every day, another delegation, another delegation,
another delegation, and no one’s putting money on the table,”
says Tony Picon, associate director of property broker Colliers
International Thailand. “The business community that’s visiting
Myanmar must be honest and say ‘We’re just looking, we’re not
going to buy,’ and not leading a false sense of anticipation
from the local community.”  Investors’ first hurdle is the sanctions maintained by the
U.S. and  Europe , which policy makers are preparing to review
following by-elections next week that include dissident  Aung San
Suu Kyi . Even then, restrictions on capital flows, lack of a
developed stock exchange, an untested legal environment and
rudimentary infrastructure will offer plenty of reasons for
holding off putting money in the former dictatorship.  A flow of corporate executives and tourists to Yangon, the
former capital and largest city, has “astronomically” lifted
hotel prices in the past few months to as high as $400 per
night, according to Picon. At the same time, many businesses are
balking at long-term deals, making local agents reluctant to
deal with foreigners, he said.  ‘Difficult Market’  “Nobody is putting money anywhere at the moment,” said
Luc de Waegh, founder of business-advisory company West
Indochina Ltd. who helped set up  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ’s
Myanmar operations in 1993. “It’s a difficult market, it’s a
small market, it’s a market where people don’t have much
disposable income. The future looks very bright, but in the
meantime there isn’t much money there.”  Opportunities in the country of 64 million people are
clear. Investor  Jim Rogers , the chairman of Rogers Holdings who
predicted a global commodities rally in 1999, said Feb. 22 he’d
put all his money in Myanmar if he could.  Myanmar’s total land area, second only to  Indonesia  in
 Southeast Asia , contains deposits of gold, copper and gemstones.
The nation is positioned between India and  China , astride
maritime trade routes between Europe and East Asia and was in
British colonial times the world’s largest rice exporter -- a
title now held by neighbor and onetime enemy Thailand.  France ’s Total SA,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  of the U.S. and  Malaysia ’s
Petroliam Nasional Bhd. entered the nation years ago to tap
offshore energy reserves. Even so, large swathes of its waters
sit unexplored, indicating the potential is greater than the
proven gas reserves that the BP Statistical Review estimates to
amount to one-eighth the size of Malaysia’s.  Energy Riches  “Arguably though, Myanmar’s gas reserves are much higher
given the unexplored areas of its extensive coastline,” CLSA
Asia-Pacific Markets said in a research note this month. “The
development of Myanmar’s energy resources, along with the
connecting of the Asean transportation network, will boost
foreign investment flows into the region.”  Myanmar’s per capita gross domestic product amounts to
$2.25 per day, about half that of  Vietnam  and 14 percent of
neighboring  Thailand ’s, according to International Monetary Fund
estimates. Only one in 30 people has a mobile phone and even
fewer have  Internet access , Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a March
14 report.  The nation attracted about 800,000  tourists  in 2010, 20
times less than neighboring Thailand, as its hundreds of
kilometers of coastline sit undeveloped. The total amount of
 office space  in Yangon is equivalent to about a third of that
available in Empire Tower, the biggest office building in
Bangkok’s central business district, according to Colliers.  Backwater Legacy  The relative underdevelopment is a legacy of military rule
that eschewed international engagement. The seizure of power and
confiscation of private assets took an economy that the  World
Bank  in 1960  said  had “many elements of strength” and turned
it into one of Southeast Asia’s backwaters.  President  Thein Sein , who took power after elections in
2010, is now taking steps to loosen controls on the economy,
moves the IMF said in January could make Myanmar “the next
economic frontier in Asia.”  Draft legislation in parliament may extend tax exemptions
for foreign companies investing in the country to as long as
eight years from the current three, according to Rupert Haw, an
attorney with the  DFDL law firm  in Bangkok who monitors Myanmar.  Other measures may be less appealing to overseas
businesses, by easing the provisions for nationalization and
strengthening quotas for local employment, Haw said.
Restrictions on rights of foreign investors to buy private
equity in enterprises owned by Myanmar citizens also needs to be
addressed if the country wishes to attract foreign capital, he
said.  ‘Mixed Bag’  “The draft bill presents something of a mixed bag of
reform on the one hand and rather more protectionist measures on
the other,” Haw said by e-mail, adding that it has since been
amended and the final version likely won’t be published until
it’s signed into law. “It is doubtful that this bill will in
itself stimulate a huge increase in investment.”  Foreign banks may get a chance to operate in the country in
2015, when an agreement to integrate with the 10-nation
Association of Southeast Asian Nations takes effect. Authorities
are currently working to dismantle a complex multiple-exchange-
rate system that has contributed to an economy being largely run
on cash, depriving small business of credit needed to expand.  Banks such as  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  are waiting for
sanctions to be lifted before considering a return, said Neeraj Swaroop, head of Southeast Asia excluding  Singapore  for the U.K.
lender that earns more than two-thirds of its profit in Asia.  ‘Still Early’  American sanctions ban investment in Myanmar and imports
from the country, restrict money transfers, freeze assets and
target jewelry with gemstones originating in the nation. The
European Union bans weapons sales and mineral imports.  “It’s still early and we will have to wait and see how it
pans out before we make any formal commitments,” Swaroop told
reporters last week in Bangkok. “We will follow our clients and
the clients will obviously go in when they see some of this
enabling stuff becoming easier.”  Standard Chartered  has reason to be cautious. A predecessor
of the current London-based company was one of more than a dozen
banks nationalized in 1963, when Myanmar’s generals seized
control of most major industries.  “If a company lacks any kind of economic or political
leverage, they will continue to be exposed to creeping
expropriation risks,” Johannes Lund, a Singapore-based analyst
at Control Risks, said by phone. “You will encounter
entrenched, established interests.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  