-- Lira Snaps 4-Day Gain as Bank Holds Rates While Adding Liquidity
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-03-27T14:31:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/lira-snaps-4-day-gain-as-bank-holds-rates-while-adding-liquidity.html
The lira snapped four days of gains
after the central bank kept rates steady and said it will
tighten if necessary to control inflation, while at the same
time adjusting reserve ratios to give banks extra liquidity.  The Turkish currency fell less than 0.1 percent to 1.7861
per dollar at 4:45 p.m., breaking a four-day rising streak.  Bond
yields (BENCH)  declined for a second day, falling six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 9.48 percent. The bank maintained its
interest rate corridor at 5.75 percent to 11.5 percent.  The central bank today doubled the share of lira reserves
banks could hold in gold to 20 percent, providing 6.1 billion
liras of extra liquidity. At the same time, the bank today
tightened liquidity by reducing the amount of funding it
provides at its lowest rate, the one-week repo rate of 5.75
percent, to between 1 billion liras ($560 million) and 6 billion
liras from a previous range of 3 billion liras to 7 billion
liras.  “Today’s monetary policy committee decision is consistent
with the spirit of the central bank’s current defensive
operational framework, keeping, on the one hand, domestic
monetary conditions tight to support the lira and on the other,
the macro-prudential measures relatively accommodative to
enhance financial stability and support growth,” Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. economist  Ahmet Akarli  said in an e-mailed report.  Current-Account Deficit  Turkey ’s current-account gap is the highest in the world at
10.3 percent of the gross domestic product among 60 major
economies tracked by the  International Monetary Fund . The
inflation rate fell to 10.4 percent in February from 10.6
percent in the previous month, while remaining at more than
twice the bank’s 5 percent target for the year.  Worsening of the current-account deficit may “increasingly
narrow the central bank’s policy options, forcing it ultimately
to compromise its consistent growth objective,” Akarli said.  “On balance, we believe the decision will raise the
weighted average cost of funding,”  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK)  said
in e-mailed comments after the central bank announced its rates
decision today.  The central bank will probably keep a “relatively tight
monetary policy at least until the third quarter,”  Ozgur Altug ,
chief economist at Istanbul-based brokerage  BGC Partners (BGCP) , said
in an e-mailed note to clients after the bank’s announcement.
“Providing lira liquidity to the market is positive for banks
and maintaining a relatively hawkish monetary policy stance is
also positive for the currency, but it might be slightly
negative for bonds.”  Banking Index Rises  The banking index in Turkey rose 0.4 percent after a 1.4
percent jump yesterday, snapping a four-day decline. The lira
advanced 1.5 percent, the most among the emerging markets
countries, since March 21 when central bank Governor Erdem Basci
pledged a policy of “controlled tightening.”  “The bank will resort to tightening until inflation is
reduced to the 5 percent target,” the governor said on that
day. The central bank will restrain lending growth and may also
adjust its reserve requirements regime, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  