-- Ireland Deserves Breathing Room on Debt to Revive Economy
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-27T23:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/ireland-deserves-breathing-room-on-debt-to-revive-economy.html
Even by Europe’s standards, the
people of Ireland have plenty to complain about. Their  economy 
is in the grinder, and  living standards  have crashed.  Last week -- talk about piling on -- a long-running
official inquiry declared that corruption in Irish political
life has been “both systemic and endemic.”  The Irish have every reason to despair of their rulers in
Dublin and farther afield, and that’s cause for wider concern.
Support from the European Union during their ordeal has been
grudging at best. With a population of fewer than 5 million,
Ireland is small, but small countries can make a big difference.  In the governance of the European Union, the
disproportionate weight of small nations is part of the
constitutional formula. On May 31, Ireland will hold a
referendum on the EU’s new fiscal compact. A “no” vote won’t
stop the agreement from taking effect -- which is a pity,
because it’s badly designed -- but it would undermine the pact’s
legitimacy. Ireland’s grievances need to be addressed before
they become a threat not just to Irish democracy but also to the
wider European project.  Item one on the list is Ireland’s effort to amend a
government obligation to the Irish Bank Resolution Corp., the
entity Dublin built to contain the failed  Anglo Irish Bank  (and
a couple smaller, equally broken institutions). This unusual
debt -- called a  promissory note  -- pays cash to the IBRC, which
in turn services a debt to the Irish central bank under an
emergency liquidity program. The government wants to defer its
next payment of about 3 billion euros (2 percent of national
output) which is due March 31, and reschedule the obligation in
future years.  Rules Are Rules  The European Commission and  European Central Bank  are
resisting. (Under the terms of the euro system, Ireland’s
obligation to its central bank is, at one remove, an obligation
to the ECB.) The debt must be serviced as promised, they say.
Rules are rules, and they can’t make an exception for Ireland.  This is a mistake. An exception should be made for Ireland
because the terms of the Irish bank bailout were themselves both
exceptional and unfair.  With the EU’s encouragement, the Irish government burdened
its taxpayers with a debt equivalent to 20 percent of gross
domestic product so that the failed bank’s unsecured creditors
and bondholders could be made whole. Nothing on that scale was
done elsewhere. Lately, Ireland has cut its  budget deficit 
sharply. Unlike  Greece , it can’t be accused of backsliding. And
it isn’t asking for its obligation to the ECB to be forgiven,
merely extended.  As for “rules are rules,” the ECB has lately bent them to
the tune of about 1 trillion euros as part of its new liquidity
arrangement for euro-area banks. In comparison, flexibility on
Ireland’s promissory note is little to ask. In effect, it would
merely apply current ECB policy on bank recapitalization to the
Irish situation. The March 31 payment should be deferred, and
the future schedule of payments restructured.  In turn, the Irish can do something for Europe -- and
themselves: Undertake a domestic political cleansing. The  report 
of the Mahon tribunal describes pervasive corruption in the
Irish land-zoning system and a culture of impunity that extended
to the very top. This week  Bertie Ahern , a former prime minister
who for two decades was among the most popular politicians in
the country, was forced to resign from his party. The tribunal
said it  didn’t believe  his claims about the provenance of
payments he had received.  Morally Bankrupt  The tribunal’s findings didn’t come as a tremendous shock.
It has been investigating since 1997 and has issued numerous
interim findings. Still, the panel’s 3,270-page final report was
depressing enough to convince many Irish that their state was,
in the words of an Irish Times  headline , “morally as well as
economically bankrupt.”  The tribunal makes many recommendations for reform, and
these should be vigorously pursued. Ireland needs stiffer
punishment for bribe-payers and bribe-takers, and full
disclosure of political donations. New laws to this effect are
under consideration, which is good, but a fresh zeal in
enforcement matters even more.  Most of the misconduct detailed in the report is already
illegal and has been previously subject to police investigation,
but the inquiries led nowhere. Tackling the problem may be more
a matter of cultural reform than of law-making. Irish public
figures need to rethink what’s acceptable, and Irish voters need
to insist that they do.  Today’s mood of cynicism and despair will be self-
fulfilling if voters, thinking their politics beyond repair,
simply switch off. They deserve better from their politicians
and from  Europe  -- but they won’t get it unless they make
themselves heard.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on  China ’s  clean-coal
technology , Ireland’s  economic woes  and  Syria ’s  muddled
opposition . William Pesek on  Japan’s workplace discrimination .
 Margaret Carlson  on  Trayvon Martin and Al Sharpton . Meghan
O’Sullivan on  Iraq’s economic salvation . Clive Crook on the
writings of a  potential World Bank president.   Peter Orszag  and
 Peter Diamond  on  Mitt Romney’s Social Security plan . And  Simon
Johnson  and  James Kwak  on how the U.S. became  banker to the
world .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 