-- J&J’s $158 Million Settlement With Texas Approved by Court
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   K e l l e y   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-03-27T17:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/j-j-s-158-million-settlement-with-texas-approved-by-court.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and the state of
Texas won court approval of the company’s agreement to pay $158
million to settle claims that the drugmaker fraudulently
marketed its Risperdal anti-psychotic drug.  J&J reached the settlement in January to resolve claims it
defrauded the state’s Medicaid program by promoting Risperdal
for uses not approved by U.S. regulators, including for children
with psychiatric disorders. The state also claimed the New
Brunswick, New Jersey-based drugmaker downplayed the health risk
of Risperdal.  Travis County District Judge John Dietz in Austin, Texas,
approved the settlement today following a meeting in court with
lawyers. J&J and its Janssen unit denied any wrongdoing in the
final agreement.  “This settlement represents a resolution to claims brought
by the State in 2004 for alleged Medicaid overpayment during the
years 1994-2008, and will circumvent potentially lengthy and
costly appellate activities,” Teresa Mueller, a company
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Under the agreement, J&J and Janssen will pay $158 million,
with 40 percent going to the state, 31 percent to the U.S., 17
percent to whistle-blower  Allen Jones , who brought the lawsuit,
and the rest to his attorneys, Tommy Jacks, one of Jones’s
lawyers, said in an interview. Both sides agreed on final
allocation last night, Jacks said.  Tom Kelley, spokesman for the Texas attorney general,
declined to comment on the breakdown. The state is getting a
larger share than initially expected, he said.  ‘Getting More’  “We know the Texas taxpayers are getting more,” he said.
The settlement is the largest in a Texas case under the state’s
Medicaid fraud act, Kelley said.  The settlement, reached during trial, was the first time
J&J and its Janssen unit settled a state’s claims over
Risperdal. The company lost jury trials in  South Carolina  and
Louisiana over Risperdal marketing. Opening statements in a
trial in Arkansas began today.  The settlement “provides for full payment within 10
days,” Tom Melsheimer, another Jones attorney, said today.
“Allen is very pleased to put this all to rest.”  Sales’ Practices Probe  The U.S. has been investigating Risperdal sales practices
since 2004, including allegations the company marketed the drug
for unapproved uses, J&J executives said last year in a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission filing. J&J said in an August
filing that it reached an agreement with federal prosecutors to
settle a misdemeanor criminal charge related to Risperdal
marketing.  The U.S.  Justice Department  is demanding that J&J pay
about $1.8 billion to resolve the civil claims by federal
regulators and some state attorneys generals, people familiar
with the settlement talks said earlier this month.  Officials in  Louisiana  and South Carolina sued J&J partly
over marketing letters the company sent to doctors in those
states touting Risperdal as superior to rival drugs. Those
states’ attorneys general alleged the company falsely claimed
Risperdal didn’t cause diabetes to charge a premium for the
drug.  Liable for Damages  In June, a South Carolina judge ordered J&J to pay
$327 million after a jury found the drugmaker liable for damages
over Risperdal marketing. A Louisiana jury in October 2010
ordered the company to pay $257.7 million over Risperdal sales.
The judge later added $73.3 million in attorneys’ fees and
costs. J&J is appealing both judgments.  A  Pennsylvania  judge threw out the state’s case against J&J
and Janssen in June 2010 during trial. An appeal of that ruling
is set to be heard next month.  J&J and Janssen also have been sued over Risperdal
marketing by  Alaska ,  Arkansas , Louisiana,  Montana ,  New Mexico ,
Pennsylvania and  Utah . The state of  West Virginia  dropped its
Risperdal suit after a judge’s $3.95 million verdict in 2009
against the company was reversed on appeal.  Texas joined a lawsuit filed in 2004 by Jones, an ex-
investigator for the Pennsylvania Office of Inspector General.
Jones said he was fired after probing company payments to a top
pharmacist in Pennsylvania’s government who hid the money.  Jurors in Austin, Texas, began hearing evidence on Jan. 10
about Janssen’s efforts to promote Risperdal, which the  Food and
Drug Administration  approved in 1993 for uses including
schizophrenia. The suit was settled Jan. 19.  The Texas case is  Texas  v. Janssen LP, D-1GV-04-001288,
District Court, Travis County, Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Kelley Shannon in Austin, Texas, at 
 Kelley@kelleyshannon.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  