-- J&J Duped Arkansas Doctors Over Risperdal, Lawyer Tells Jury
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y ,   E r i c   F r a n c i s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-03-27T17:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/j-j-duped-arkansas-doctors-over-risperdal-lawyer-tells-jury-1-.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  officials
repeatedly misled  Arkansas  doctors about the safety of the
antipsychotic drug Risperdal, and the drugmaker should be held
responsible for those deceptions, a lawyer said.  J&J’s Janssen unit made misleading claims about Risperdal’s
health risks and effectiveness in a letter to more than 6,200
Arkansas doctors, violating the state’s deceptive-trade
practices law, one of the state’s lawyers told a jury in Little
Rock today. Arkansas is seeking more than $1.25 billion in
penalties over the campaign.  “By the time this case is over, we will prove to you that
Janssen lied about Risperdal’s dangers just to make money,”
Fletcher Trammell, an attorney for Arkansas, told jurors in
opening statements in the state-court trial over J&J’s Risperdal
marketing tactics.  It’s the fifth  jury trial  over states’ claims that J&J, the
 second-biggest  maker of health products, hid Risperdal’s
diabetes risks and tricked Medicaid regulators into paying
millions of dollars more than they should have for the medicine.
J&J ended the most recent trial in  Texas  with a $158 million
settlement in January. The Texas settlement won court approval
today.  Proper Warnings  J&J has said it provided proper warnings about diabetes
risks on Risperdal’s label and that U.S. regulators approved
those disclosures. Efforts to tie labeling claims to Medicaid
fraud should fail because “compliance with federal drug
labeling statutes and regulations is not a condition of payment
or participating in” a state Medicaid program, J&J said in a
July 2010 court filing.  Janssen didn’t engage in deceptive trade practices and
didn’t harm anyone, James Simpson, a company lawyer, told the
jury today.  “The state will not present any evidence that a single
person was injured while taking Risperdal,” Simpson said in his
opening statement. “There will not be any evidence that the
state of Arkansas lost a penny in paying for Risperdal for
thousands of Arkansas citizens who needed the drug.”  Risperdal’s global sales peaked at $4.5 billion in 2007 and
declined after the company lost patent protection. The drug
generated $3.4 billion in sales in 2008, or 5.4 percent of  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J’s  revenue , according to company
filings. Sales of the drug fell to $527 million in 2010,
according to earnings reports.  Marketing Challenged  Along with contending that J&J and Janssen defrauded the
Medicaid program by failing to properly outline the
antipsychotic medicine’s risks on the warning label, Arkansas
officials allege J&J officials deceptively marketed the drug as
safer and better than competing medicines.  The state also argues that the companies marketed the drug
for “unapproved uses, including various symptoms in children
and the elderly” after being warned by federal authorities to
halt such sales, according to the state’s suit.  The U.S. has been investigating Risperdal sales practices
since 2004, including allegations that the company marketed the
drug for unapproved uses, J&J executives said in a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission  filing  last year.  The U.S.  Justice Department  is demanding that J&J pay about
$1.8 billion to resolve the civil claims by federal regulators
and some state attorneys general, people familiar with the
settlement talks said this month.  State Officials  Arkansas is asking the jury to find J&J and Janssen liable
for illegally marketing Risperdal to dupe state officials into
overpaying for the drug.  The state has said it will then ask Judge Tim Fox to fine
J&J at least $5,000 for each prescription affected by the
Risperdal marketing campaign. Arkansas says at least 250,000
prescriptions may have resulted from illegal marketing. That
would amount to a fine of at least $1.25 billion.  The state said it also will seek damages for misleading
statements made in a 2003 letter to Arkansas doctors touting
Risperdal. Arkansas said it will also seek penalties for more
than 19,000 sales calls in which J&J representatives allegedly
used the letter or made other deceptive statements about the
drug.  Trammell, the state’s lawyer, said that J&J and Janssen
would argue at trial that Risperdal is effective as an
antipsychotic.  ‘It’s True’  “And it’s true, we don’t dispute it,” Trammell told
jurors. “But that doesn’t give anybody a pass to lie about
dangers. Just because the drug works that doesn’t mean they can
break the law by lying about the drug’s risks.”  Simpson said Risperdal’s risks are minimal. By 2002, after
“12.7 million patient years” of Risperdal use, only 311
adverse blood sugar events were known worldwide, a rate of 0.002
percent, he said.  “If my math is good, .002 is 10 feet in a mile. In other
words,” he said, taking a few steps toward the jury box, ’’it’s
that much in a mile. Ten feet. That’s how rare these incidents
happen.’’ The rate of adverse events hasn’t changed since then,
he said.  J&J and Janssen have been sued by 11 states seeking
reimbursement for Medicaid or other public funds paid on
Risperdal prescriptions. The lawsuits allege that J&J promoted
the drug for dementia, mood and anxiety disorders and other
unapproved uses, or downplayed risks.  Thrown Out  In June 2010, a judge threw out  Pennsylvania ’s suit over
the Risperdal marketing campaign in the middle of a trial. An
appeal of that ruling is set to be heard next month.  Four months later, jurors in  Louisiana  ordered the
drugmaker to pay almost $258 million to state officials for
making misleading claims about the drug’s safety. J&J has
appealed.  In June 2011 a South Carolina judge ordered J&J to pay $327
million in penalties for deceptively marketing the medicine. The
company has appealed that ruling.  The case is State of Arkansas v. Ortho-McNeil-Janssen
Pharmaceuticals Inc., CV07-15345, Pulaski County Circuit Court
(Little Rock).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Francis in  Little Rock , Arkansas, at  eric.francis@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  