-- Japan Eases Rules for Geothermal-Power Plants at National Parks
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2012-03-27T08:59:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/japan-eases-rules-for-geothermal-power-plants-at-national-parks.html
Japan  has revised rules for
geothermal power projects in national parks, where more than 80
percent of the nation’s resources lie, as it seeks to increase
the amount of energy that originates from cleaner sources.  The Ministry of Environment has expanded areas where
developers may conduct surveys and build geothermal power plants
in national parks, it said in a  statement  today.  The move comes as Japan explores ways to increase the use
of clean energy after last year’s Fukushima nuclear accident.
The country has only one of its 54 nuclear reactors operating
and no units that have been idled for safety checks since the
disaster have restarted.  “Keeping a balance between geothermal power and national
parks has been a very big issue,” Environment Minister Goshi Hosono said at a press conference today. “We plan to develop
geothermal power in earnest as the importance of renewable
energy is increasing.”  The ministry will also allow a survey in the most tightly
regulated zones if a there is a need for a study spanning wider
areas to develop geothermal power outside the zones, according
to the statement. It will expand areas where drilling and
construction of a plant may be permitted if a project meets
government conditions, according to the statement.  Japan has 537 megawatts of installed geothermal capacity,
accounting for 0.2 percent of its total power generation output,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. No new projects of
more than 10 megawatts have been developed since 1996, the
research agency said.  Japanese refiner  Idemitsu Kosan Co. (5019)  and oil and gas
explorer  Inpex Corp. (1605)  are considering building a geothermal power
plant in Fukushima, Tetsuji Yoshimine, a spokesman for Inpex,
said March 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 