-- JetBlue Captain Shut Out of Cockpit by Co-Pilot on Behavior
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-03-27T22:59:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/jetblue-plane-diverted-after-captain-becomes-ill-during-flight.html
A  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  captain
began acting erratically during a flight from  New York  today and
was locked out of the cockpit by his co-pilot before the plane
was diverted to  Texas , federal officials said.  The captain had to be subdued by passengers when he tried
to re-enter the cockpit after briefly stepping out, the  Federal
Aviation Administration  said in an e-mailed statement. The Las
Vegas-bound jet landed in Amarillo, Texas, where the captain was
taken to a hospital for evaluation, the FAA said.  “The co-pilot became concerned that the captain exhibited
erratic behavior during the flight,” the FAA said. Law
enforcement officials “secured the pilot without incident”
after landing.  Flight 191 was about halfway into a  journey  of roughly
2,250 miles (3,620 kilometers) when the incident occurred, based
on an e-mailed statement from Allison Steinberg, a JetBlue
spokeswoman. An off-duty pilot entered the cockpit and assisted
the co-pilot as the twin-engine Airbus SAS A320 touched down
safely with 135 passengers and five on-duty crew members.  “I can’t think of another time in my 26-year airline
career where I’ve ever heard of something like this happening,”
Lee Collins, executive vice president of the Coalition of
Airline Pilots Associations trade group in Washington, said in a
phone interview. JetBlue pilots aren’t unionized.  ‘Screaming, Pounding’  Laurie Dhue, a former Fox News employee who was on the
flight, told Fox’s Shepard Smith in an interview that the
captain had a “breakdown of some kind.”  “He was running down the aisle screaming, pounding on the
cockpit door, saying ‘Let me in, let me in, pull the throttle
back, we got to get this plane down,’” Dhue said. “Several
huge men who happened to be sitting in front of the plane rushed
down the aisle, wrestled him to the ground and got him subdued
pretty darn quick.”  The FAA,  Federal Bureau  of Investigation,  Transportation
Security Administration  and local law enforcement authorities
are investigating, according to the FAA statement.  Steinberg said JetBlue wasn’t identifying any of its
employees on the jet. The airline sent another plane to collect
the travelers and continue the flight to  Las Vegas , she said.  New York Departure  Flight 191 left New York’s John F. Kennedy International
Airport at 7:28 a.m., more than a half-hour after its scheduled
departure. It landed about 10:11 a.m. local time at Amarillo’s
Rick Husband International Airport, about 11 minutes after the
co-pilot decided to divert there, Steinberg said.  The patient from the airport incident was at Northwest
Texas Healthcare System, said Caytie Martin, a spokeswoman for
the Amarillo hospital, who declined to comment further.  FAA rules require that airline pilots receive a medical
check once a year if under 40 and every six months if older,
according to the agency’s website. The exam includes questions
about mental health, according to the agency.  Today’s incident was the second flight in less than a month
disrupted by an employee at a U.S. airline.  An  American Airlines (AMR1)  plane had to return to an airport gate
on March 9 after a flight attendant began ranting about a
possible crash and the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. She initially
was restrained by passengers and later was handcuffed and put in
leg restraints by officers when she resisted being taken off the
plane at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport.  The woman, 43, who was taken to a hospital for evaluation
of a “mental episode,” had stopped taking medication for
bipolar disorder, according to an airport police report. A
second flight attendant was injured in the incident.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Levin in  Washington  at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  