-- Jets’ Sanchez Isn’t Worried About Losing Job With Tebow Arrival
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-27T04:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/jets-sanchez-isn-t-worried-about-losing-job-with-tebow-arrival.html
Mark Sanchez  said he’s not worried
that Tim Tebow will threaten his job as the  New York Jets ’
starting quarterback and welcomes his teammate’s competitive
nature.  “He’s here to help us,” Sanchez told reporters after
Tebow’s introductory news conference yesterday. “I’m confident
in my abilities. I know the team has the same belief. I’m the
same guy who helped the team win a lot of games here.”  Sanchez said he called Tebow and welcomed him to the Jets
following the March 21 trade with the  Denver Broncos .  “Really, if he can help us win, I’m on board,” Sanchez
said. “Whether it’s a draft player, a free agent or a trade, as
the quarterback I’m for getting wins for this team. If Tim can
help us win, I’m excited about that.”  Tebow, whose news conference drew more than 200 media
members to the Jets’ practice complex in  Florham Park ,  New
Jersey , said yesterday he understands that he’s the backup to
Sanchez, although that doesn’t mean he won’t try to earn the
first-team position. Tebow helped the Broncos make the National
Football League playoffs and rebound from a 1-4 start after
taking over as the team’s starting quarterback last season.  “For everybody who puts on a uniform, you want to go out
there and play,” Tebow said. “Every day in practice I am going
to go out there, and I am going to compete.”  Sanchez, 25, and Tebow, 24, both said they look forward to
working together. Sanchez has been the Jets’ starter the past
three seasons and led the team to the American Football
Conference championship game his first two years.  Sanchez’s Extension  Sanchez this month signed a five-year, $58 million contract
extension with more than $20 million guaranteed in the first two
years, according to the New York Post, which cited a person it
didn’t identify.  “Tim’s really just well-mannered, a great guy, smiling,
excited all the time,” Sanchez said. “You can tell he’s
competitive, he wants to win at everything, and that’s good.
Those are the kind of guys we want on our team.”  Tebow will operate the Jets’ wildcat package, a formation
that uses run-or-pass options to try to confuse defenses, and
could play other positions, Jets coach  Rex Ryan  told reporters
at league meetings in  Palm Beach ,  Florida .  Tebow said yesterday he wants to help the team in whatever
way he can, though his desire is to be a quarterback.  “That’s what I want to be and that’s what I believe I
am,” Tebow said. “However I can make a difference, however
they can use me, I’ll be open to it.”  Tebow’s Fans  Tebow’s late-game heroics in Denver helped him increase an
already large fan base that followed him from his days at the
University of Florida, where he won two national titles and a
Heisman Trophy as college football’s top player in 2007. He
entered the NFL two seasons ago as the 25th overall draft pick.  Tebow’s success became one of the dominant storylines in
the NFL last season, spawning a phenomenon known as
“Tebowmania” even with questions about his 46.5 pass-
completion percentage and reliance on running, as most NFL teams
are built around strong-armed quarterbacks.  A devout Christian with a devoted religious following, he
kneeled to pray after winning games. He was mimicked worldwide
in photos that circulated on social media websites in a fad that
became known as “Tebowing.”  While Tebow was named America’s favorite pro athlete in an
ESPN poll this year, Sanchez said he’s not concerned that Jets
fans might chant Tebow’s name if the team is struggling.  “Those things happen,” Sanchez said. “Whether it’s  Tim
Tebow  or not, they call for the backup. It’s just part of the
job if you’re not playing well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  