-- Kentucky Has 52% Chance of Delivering NCAA Title for Calipari
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/kentucky-has-52-chance-of-delivering-ncaa-title-for-calipari.html
The University of  Kentucky ’s
underclassman-laden lineup has a 52 percent chance of giving
coach  John Calipari  his first college basketball national
championship, according to Las Vegas oddsmakers.  The Wildcats, whose top five scorers are freshmen or
sophomores, are the 5-7 favorites at the Final Four of the
National Collegiate Athletic Association men’s tournament. A
bettor would have to wager $140 to win $100 on Kentucky, which
also entered the tournament as the oddsmakers’ favorite.  Ohio State has a 25 percent chance of winning the
championship, Kansas is at 15 percent and Louisville has an 8
percent chance, according to R.J. Bell, founder of Las Vegas-
based handicapping information website  Pregame.com .  “This team has been steady all year,” Calipari said
yesterday on a media  conference call . “They’ve had rivalry
games, they’ve had teams that came out of the gate, they’ve had
people that try to play us physical. They’ve withstood all that
stuff and I feel good going in.”  The Wildcats, with a 36-2 record, are 8.5-point favorites
against state rival Louisville in the first national semifinal
game on March 31 in  New Orleans . The point spread makes Kentucky
the biggest favorite at the Final Four since 1999, when Duke was
an 11-point favorite against Michigan State.  Ohio State is favored by 2.5 points against Kansas in the
other semifinal, also on March 31.  The winners advance to the April 2 championship game.  Star Freshmen  Kentucky, led by freshmen  Anthony Davis , Michael Kidd-
Gilchrist and Marquis Teague, is two wins from its eighth
championship. Only the University of  California ,  Los Angeles ,
with 11 NCAA titles, has won more.  Davis, the Wildcats’ leading scorer during the regular
season, has averaged 14.5 points and 11 rebounds in Kentucky’s
four tournament victories. Kentucky’s three starting freshmen
and sophomores Doron Lamb and Terrence Jones are all averaging
at least 13.5 points a game in the tournament.  Louisville coach Rick Pitino said Kentucky’s defensive
intensity may be more impressive than its offensive balance.  “To prepare for Kentucky we need three weeks,” said
Pitino, who coached the Wildcats to a national title in 1996 and
took over at Louisville in 2001. “I don’t know of any young
team that can play that well at the defensive end.”  Gunning for Kentucky  Calipari, 53, who has 545 career wins and is in the Final
Four for the fourth time, said he knows the other three schools
will be gunning for his squad.  Kentucky ended Ohio State’s season a year ago with a two-
point victory in the regional semifinals of the NCAA tournament.
The Wildcats beat  Kansas  75-65 in the second game of this season
for both schools and knocked off Louisville 69-62 on Dec. 31. It
was part of a 24-game winning streak for Kentucky, a run that
ended with a loss to Vanderbilt in the final of the Southeastern
Conference tournament.  “Every game we play is someone’s  Super Bowl ,” Calipari
said. “We ended Ohio State’s season last year. We opened up the
season by beating Kansas. You don’t think they want a piece of
us? We beat Louisville earlier in the year. They’re going crazy
to beat us. Everybody we play is that way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  