-- Anadarko, Tullow to Drill Exploratory Wells in Kenya in 2012
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-03-27T15:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/kenya-says-four-exploratory-oil-wells-to-be-drilled-this-year.html
The government of Kenya, which
yesterday announced its first oil discovery, expects at least
four exploratory wells to be drilled in the country this year.  Drilling will be carried out by  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) ,  Apache
Corp. (APA)  and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , Energy Ministry Permanent
Secretary Patrick Nyoike said in a speech read on his behalf
today at the Eastern Africa Oil, Gas & Energy Week in Nairobi,
the capital.  Tullow found 20 meters (66 feet) of oil in the Ngamia-1
exploration well in Kenya’s northwestern Turkana region with
Canadian partner  Africa Oil Corp. (AOI) , the London-based company said
in a statement yesterday. The well, in Block 10BB, has been
drilled to about a third of its target depth.  The find is “the beginning of a long road to make our
country an oil producer,” President Mwai Kibaki said in a
statement yesterday. It will take “three to five years” for
Tullow and the Kenyan government to determine whether to go into
development and production at the Turkana site, according to
Nyoike’s speech.  “We are pretty confident there is further potential as we
drill down,” Ian Cloke, Tullow’s exploration manager for
southern and East Africa, said in a speech at the conference.  Tullow is investing $428 million of its $1.98 billion group
capital expenditure budget in East Africa, according to a
presentation slide shown by Cloke. The company plans to drill as
many as 20 wells this year in neighboring Uganda, where the
company expects to begin “small-scale” oil production, in
partnership with France’s  Total SA (FP)  and  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  of China, by
the end of 2012, he said.  16 Blocks  Kenya has 16 blocks that are currently open for oil and gas
exploration, of which nine have expressions of interest by
companies, according to Nyoike.  Plans by oil and gas companies to carry out “extensive”
exploration in Kenya end years of lack of investment in the
industry, said Alec Robinson, president of Lion Petroleum Corp.  Ngamia-1 is only the second onshore well drilled in the
past two decades in the East African nation, he said at the
conference. Lion Petroleum, based in London, holds two
exploration areas in northeastern Kenya, including Block 1,
which it jointly shares with  Afren Plc (AFR) , and its wholly owned
Block 2B, according to the company’s website.  “It’s a greatly unexplored country,” Robinson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 