-- KKR’s Tasc Said to Increase Refinancing Loan Size to $75 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-03-27T14:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/kkr-s-tasc-said-to-increase-refinancing-loan-size-to-75-million.html
Tasc Inc., a provider of systems
engineering and advisory services, increased the size of a  term
loan  it’s seeking to refinance a portion of the company’s senior
subordinated notes due 2016 to $75 million from $65 million,
said a person with knowledge of the transaction.  The debt due in 2015 will pay interest at 3.25 percentage
points more than the London interbank offered rate, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the terms are
private. Libor, the rate banks say they can borrow in dollars
from each other, will have a 1.25 percent minimum.  Tasc is proposing to sell the loan at 98 cents on the
dollar, compared with 98 cents to 98.5 cents originally offered,
the person said, reducing proceeds for the company and boosting
the yield to investors.  Barclays Plc. is arranging the financing for the Chantilly,
Virginia-based company and investors have until today at 5 p.m.
in  New York  to submit commitments, the person said.  Leverage, or debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, will be 5.4 times for the
company, the person said. The debt is rated B1 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  “Tasc is always seeking to lower our interest expense and
improve our financial flexibility,” Wayne Rehberger, chief
financial officer, said in an e-mailed statement on March 22.
“Upon successful completion of this transaction, we will have
accomplished both objectives.”  KKR & Co., the New York-based private-equity firm, and
Greenwich, Connecticut-based General Atlantic purchased the
company from  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  in December 2009 for $1.65
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In a revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a term loan it can’t.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 Mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  