-- KKR Names Ex-Morgan Stanley CEO John Mack as Senior Adviser
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-03-27T14:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/kkr-appoints-ex-morgan-stanley-ceo-john-mack-as-senior-adviser.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the private-equity firm
run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , named former Morgan
Stanley Chief Executive Officer  John Mack  as a senior adviser.  He will join executives including former Caterpillar Inc.
CEO James Owens and Bertelsmann AG’s former co-chairman, Richard Sarnoff, who advise the firm on investments, New York-based KKR
said in a statement today.  “He will help make us smarter investors and strengthen our
firm,” Kravis said in the statement.  Leveraged buyout firms such as KKR are adding to their
financial-services teams as they seek to purchase businesses
from banks that are under pressure by regulators and markets to
sell assets in the wake of the financial crisis.  “The volatile economic environment has created a demand
for both capital and operational expertise,” said Mack, 67,
whose reputation for swift cost-cutting earned him the nickname
“Mack the Knife.”  He stepped down as chairman of  Morgan Stanley (MS)  at the end of
last year, two years after leaving the CEO role he held at the
Wall Street bank from 2005 to 2010. Mack boosted businesses
including trading, private equity and mortgages, a strategy that
backfired when the bank posted its first quarterly loss in 2007
on the eve of the financial crisis.  Selling Stakes  Morgan Stanley  sold stakes  to China Investment Corp. and
Japanese bank Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group to raise capital
and converted to a bank in 2008, when the  shares  tumbled 70
percent. New York-based Morgan Stanley also took $107 billion of
Federal Reserve emergency loans, more than any other firm,
during the crisis.  “He destroyed the value of my shares, lost market share,
panicked and wound up a winner,” Chuck Ronson, a trader at New
York-based Profectus Investments, said of Mack in an e-mail.  KKR said last month it has amassed $6 billion for its next
buyout fund focused on  North America . The company is targeting
$10 billion for the fund.  Buyout firms such as KKR typically use loans secured by the
targets they acquire to finance more than half of the purchase
price and cash from their own funds for the rest. They try to
improve performance at the companies they acquire or expand them
before selling them within about five years.  Mack said in 2009 that he reached out to regulators after
turning down the chance to finance a leveraged buyout deal
during the credit boom.  “I missed a piece of business,” Mack said he told the
regulators then. “I can live with that, but as soon as I hung
up the phone someone else put up 10 times leverage. We cannot
control ourselves. You have to step in and control the Street.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  