-- KKR Said to Name Ex-Morgan Stanley CEO John Mack Senior Adviser
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-03-27T11:22:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/kkr-said-to-name-ex-morgan-stanley-ceo-john-mack-senior-adviser.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the private-equity firm
run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , is poised to name former
Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer  John Mack  as a senior
adviser, according to a person with knowledge of the situation.  He will join a roster of former executives including former
Caterpillar Inc. CEO James Owens and Bertelsmann AG’s former co-
chairman Richard Sarnoff, who advise the firm on investments,
said the person, who declined to be identified before an
announcement that may come as soon as today.  Leveraged buyout firms such as KKR are adding to their
financial-services teams as they seek to purchase businesses
from banks under pressure by regulators and markets to offload
assets in the wake of the financial crisis.  Mack, whose reputation for swift cost cutting earned him
the nickname “Mack the Knife,” stepped down as chairman of
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  at the end of last year, two years after leaving
the CEO role he held at the Wall Street bank from 2005 to 2010.
He boosted businesses including trading, private equity and
mortgages, a strategy that backfired when the bank posted its
first quarterly loss in 2007 on the eve of the financial crisis.  KKR officials declined to comment.  Morgan Stanley sold stakes to China Investment Corp. and
Japanese bank Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group to raise capital
and converted to a bank in 2008. The New York-based firm also
took $107 billion of Federal Reserve emergency loans, more than
any other firm, during the crisis.  KKR said last month it has amassed $6 billion for its next
buyout fund focused on  North America . The firm is targeting $10
billion for the buyout fund.  Buyout firms such as KKR typically use loans secured on the
targets they acquire to finance more than half of the purchase
price and cash from their own funds for the rest. The firms seek
to improve performance at the companies they acquire or expand
them before selling them within about five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  