-- Kurds May Halt Crude Exports If Iraq Withholds $1.5 Billion
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-03-27T13:47:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/kurds-may-halt-crude-exports-if-iraq-withholds-1-5-billion-1-.html
Crude exports from  Iraq ’s semi-
autonomous Kurdish region dropped to 50,000 barrels a day and
may cease in a month if the central government refuses to pay
about $1.5 billion owed to producers, Kurdish authorities said.  The Kurdistan Regional Government also called today on
foreign companies including  BP Plc (BP/)  not to make separate
agreements with Iraq’s central government to develop  oil fields 
in and around the disputed northern city of Kirkuk. The central
government has said it is talking with BP about boosting output
at a field called Kirkuk, near the same city.  A dispute over oil revenues between Iraq’s government and
Kurdish authorities led to a yearlong halt in exports from the
region that ended in February 2011. Iraq holds the world’s
fifth-biggest crude reserves, based on BP statistics that also
include Canadian  oil sands , and it seeks to boost oil exports to
help rebuild an economy recovering after years of conflict,
sanctions and sabotage.  “This latest chapter in the protracted struggle between
the central and regional government puts something of a downer
on the realization of Iraq’s vast crude export potential,” JBC
Energy GmbH, a Vienna-based consultant founded by Managing
Director  Johannes Benigni , said in a note today.  Kurdish Potential  The Kurdish Ministry of Natural Resources cut its oil
exports from 175,000 barrels a day “because of the production
costs and the re-investments needed by the producing companies
in the region,” according to a statement on the official KRG
website. The Kurds are targeting 175,000 barrels a day, as
specified in the Iraqi federal budget, and could export
“significantly more” if the central government in Baghdad
fulfills commitments to pay companies pumping crude at Kurdish
fields, the KRG said.  The Kurds export crude through a pipeline controlled by the
central government, which paid producers in the Kurdish region a
total of $514 million last year, according to the statement.  “We still remain hopeful that the authorities in  Baghdad 
will realize the damage being caused to Iraq’s economy by their
continued failure to comply with their commitments,” the KRG
said.  The Iraqi Finance Ministry has allocated 650 billion dinars
($558 million) in the government’s annual budget for payments to
foreign companies working in the Kurdish region, and it will
release the funds upon completion of an official audit, Finance
Minister Rafih Al-Issawi said.  Halt Not Feared  “We do not fear the halt of crude exports from the
Kurdistan Regional Government,” he told reporters in Baghdad
today, without elaborating.  BP is in talks aimed at raising production at the Kirkuk
field by 300,000 barrels a day, more than double the deposit’s
current output, Hussain Gholam, the deputy director general of
Iraq’s North Oil Co., said in a March 22 interview.  The Kurdish ministry, in a separate statement on the KRG
website, said the central government doesn’t have exclusive
authority over Kirkuk or any other oil field. Developing the
nation’s energy deposits requires the approval of regional
governments, the KRG said.  The central government refuses to do business with
companies working in the Kurdish region. It said on March 22
that  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  had agreed to freeze business the company
had arranged with the Kurds.  Iraq produced 2.76 million barrels a day of crude in
February, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Most of the
output comes from southern fields. The central government, which
expects to pump 3.4 million barrels a day by the end of the
year, has awarded 15 energy licenses since the 2003 U.S.-led
invasion that ousted former President  Saddam Hussein . It plans a
new licensing round in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  