-- Nazi-Seized Klee Goes to Court After Munich Rejects Talks
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-03-27T11:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/nazi-seized-klee-painting-s-heirs-start-2-7-million-court-case.html
The heirs of a German art historian
who emigrated to the Soviet Union in 1927 filed a legal claim
against the city of Munich for a Paul Klee painting that they
say was stolen from their grandmother by the Nazis.  The painting, “Sumpflegende” (Swamp Legend), is housed in
Munich’s  Lenbachhaus  museum. Three grandchildren of Sophie
Lissitzky-Kueppers filed suit for its return at the  Bavarian
regional court  after offers to negotiate were rebuffed. The
suit, dated March 23, puts the painting’s value at 2 million
euros ($2.7 million.)  Lissitzky-Kueppers inherited “Sumpflegende” in 1922 and
loaned it to Hanover’s Provinzialmuseum in 1926, before she left
Germany. The painting was seized from the museum in 1937 under
the orders of  Adolf Hitler ’s propaganda minister  Joseph Goebbels 
for the Nazi “Degenerate Art” exhibition in Munich.  Munich has “rejected returning the Klee painting with
constantly changing reasons since 1992,” Christoph von Berg of
Von Berg Bandekow Zorn, the Leipzig law firm representing the
heirs, said in a statement sent to Bloomberg News by e-mail.
“All attempts by the heirs to reach an agreement have been
brusquely brushed aside.”  The Nazis seized thousands of modern works, seeking to
purge German museums of art they saw as contrary to Aryan
ideals. An  online database  compiled by Berlin’s Free University
plans to document as many as 21,000 confiscated “degenerate”
works by artists including  Otto Dix ,  Max Beckmann , Wassily Kandinsky and Klee.  In the degenerate art show, “Sumpflegende” was mocked as
the “confusion” and “disorder” of a “mentally ill person.”  Rejecting Panel  In September 2010, Munich Mayor Christian Ude rejected an
approach from a government commission headed by former
Constitutional Court judge Jutta Limbach, offering to mediate in
the dispute with the Lissitzky-Kueppers heirs.  The panel was set up by Culture Minister Bernd Neumann in
2003 to make recommendations on disputed artworks lost by their
owners in the Nazi era and now in public collections. The panel
can only propose solutions if both sides of a dispute allow.  The basis for the panel’s recommendations is an
international accord known as the  Washington Principles ,
endorsed by 44 countries in 1998. Under those non-binding
principles, countries pledged to restitute or reach a settlement
with the heirs on Nazi-looted art in public collections.  Munich Welcomes Suit  Ude has argued that those principles don’t apply to so-
called “degenerate art” seized from museums -- only to works
seized from private collections.  “The city of Munich welcomes the fact that after years of
fighting an extra-judicial campaign there will now be legal
clarification on the restitution claim by Lissitzky-Kueppers’
grandchildren,” Ude said today in a statement sent by e-mail.
“The city of Munich can in no way be connected to the National
Socialist seizure of ‘Sumpflegende’ -- it has also not profited
in any way from the Nazi confiscation operation.”  The heirs say that under civil law, Lissitzky-Kueppers
never lost title to the painting. They also argue that under the
terms of the Washington Principles and an agreement between
German public authorities, the city of Munich is not entitled to
employ technical defenses like statutes of limitations.  Poster Ruling  The heirs said in the statement that their view of the
legal position was vindicated in a recent ruling by the
Bundesgerichtshof, the top court for civil matters in  Germany .
On March 16, the court ordered Berlin’s Deutsches Historisches
Museum to return a collection of posters looted by the Gestapo
to the son of a Jewish dentist who fled  Nazi Germany .  An earlier lawsuit demanding restitution of
“Sumpflegende” by Lissitzky-Kueppers’ son was thrown out by
the Bavarian regional court in 1993, before the Washington
Principles were formulated, on the basis that statutes had
expired.  Lissitzky-Kueppers loaned “Sumpflegende” and 15 other
works to Hanover’s Provinzialmuseum in 1926, shortly before she
left Germany. She emigrated to Moscow to join the Russian artist
El Lissitzky, whom she married, according to the book “Lost
Lives, Lost Art” by Melissa Mueller and Monika Tatzkow.  Banished to Siberia by Stalin as a German living in the
 Soviet Union  during the war, she failed to recover her
paintings. She died in penury in Novosibirsk in 1978.  The Nazis sold “Sumpflegende” in 1941. Several changes of
ownership later, the picture was acquired by Munich and the
Gabriele Muenter Foundation in 1982.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 