-- New Jersey Revenue May Fall Below Christie’s Budget Goals
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-03-27T16:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/new-jersey-revenue-may-fall-below-christie-s-budget-goals.html
New Jersey (STONJ1) ’s revenue collections
may trail Governor  Chris Christie ’s estimates by a combined $537
million this fiscal year and next as taxes on income and casinos
fall short, the Legislature’s chief budget analyst said.  Collections will be below Christie’s targets by $145
million in fiscal 2012 and $392 million in the year that begins
July 1, according to a report from  David Rosen , budget analyst
for the nonpartisan Office of Legislative Services. Rosen, 64, 
told the Senate Budget Committee today that his own projections
may be “overly optimistic.”  Rosen’s report, which estimates revenue growth of 6.5
percent for fiscal 2013, may make it harder for Christie to get
his budget approved by the Democratic-led Legislature, said
Committee Chairman  Paul Sarlo . The governor, 49, a first-term
Republican, has proposed a $32.1 billion spending plan that
counts on a 7.3 percent gain in revenue, the most since before
the recession began in December 2007.  “The administration’s targets are a lot more optimistic, a
lot more rosy,” Sarlo, a Democrat from Wood-Ridge, said in a
telephone interview. “Ultimately, it’s the governor who has to
certify revenue, he has that authority.”  Christie told reporters in  Atlantic City  today that Rosen’s
office is “partisan” and “merely a tool for Democrats.” He
called the office’s work “background noise to the Jersey
comeback.”  ‘Dead on Arrival’  “These are the same guys who last year said I
underestimated by $400 million,” Christie said. Rosen’s
figures, he said, are “dead on arrival before he sits down.”  Christie has proposed a 10 percent income-tax reduction
over three years for every  New Jersey  resident. He also is
trimming business levies. The governor has said he is able to
cut taxes now that the state’s “fiscal house is in order.”  New Jersey’s economy “is not out of the woods yet,” Rosen
told lawmakers. The European debt crisis, the possibility of
slower-than-anticipated U.S. economic growth and higher energy
prices could depress tax collections, he said.  “The revenue forecasts we’ve made are an optimistic set of
assumptions and we realize they may be overly optimistic,”
Rosen said. “We’re lower than the administration, but we’re
still optimistic.”  April Collections  Rosen said April income-tax collections will determine
whose assumptions are correct. April is the largest month of the
year for income taxes, which are the most volatile of all
revenue sources, Rosen said.  “The infamous ’April Surprise’ has been either
unexpectedly pleasant or painful,” he said. “The reality may
be well outside the bounds of either of our estimates.”  The governor’s budget proposal is structurally unbalanced
because it is built on “optimistic” growth projections,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a Feb. 24 report. The plan also
depends on using $288 million of reserves and increases the
state’s reliance on one-time revenues to $1.6 billion, S&P said.  Rosen estimated that Christie’s budget has $2.1 billion of
one-time revenues. The governor’s proposal projects total
revenue of $31.9 billion, while Rosen estimates $31.5 billion.  State Debt  The state’s general-obligation bonds are rated AA- by S&P,
fourth highest. Ten-year debt of New Jersey issuers yields about
2.78 percent, or 0.4 percentage point more than top-rated
securities, the  smallest difference  since Feb. 6, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  For the first eight months of fiscal 2012, revenue was 1.7
percent below projections, or 4.3 percent higher than the same
period of 2011, Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff said on March
7. Sidamon-Eristoff is scheduled to appear before the Senate
Budget Committee this afternoon.  Income taxes will trail the administration’s targets by
$157 million in the 12 months ending June 30 and $308 million in
the next year, the legislative services office said.  Christie’s administration is projecting income-tax
collections of $11.8 billion, an increase of 6.3 percent over
fiscal 2012. Reaching this target, after accounting for $250.3
million of tax reductions, requires growth of 8.4 percent,
according to the legislative services report.  Income Taxes  The office projects 5 percent growth in collections of the
gross income tax, or GIT, after accounting for tax changes. The
lower forecast reflects “differing views of how strong the GIT
revenue recovery will be,” according to the report.  Estimated income-tax payments in January were 8 percent
below targets, Rosen said. Those payments may be an indicator of
April collections, he said.  Rosen also projects less  tax revenue  from casinos. His
report estimates casino taxes and fees of $267 million in fiscal
2013, or 7.9 percent growth. Christie projected $287 million, up
16 percent from an estimated $247 million in 2012.  Christie has said Atlantic City tourism will help revive
New Jersey’s economy. He was there today to tour the newly
completed $2.4 billion Revel Resort and Casino, which is
scheduled to open May 25.  The governor said he is confident in Revel as a catalyst
for Atlantic City and the region. Revel, which got $260 million
of tax incentives from the Christie administration, will create
more than 5,000 jobs, distribute more than $153 million in
payroll and generate $155 million in state and local taxes
annually, the governor’s office said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  