-- New York Apple Growers Assessing Damage After Overnight Frost
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-03-27T12:44:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/new-york-apple-growers-assessing-damage-after-overnight-frost.html
Growers of apples and other fruit
in the northeastern U.S. are assessing crop damage from
overnight temperatures that fell into the teens in some areas
after an unseasonably warm winter prompted early blooms.  “We probably skirted major damage, but we do have
damage,” said Brian Nicholson, who raises apples on 400 acres
near Geneva,  New York , where the overnight low was 22 degrees
Fahrenheit (minus 6 Celsius). “I guess we’re happy it’s not
worse.”  An unusually warm winter has prompted New York’s iconic
McIntosh apples and other crops to flower early throughout the
Northeast, exposing the fruit to potential frost damage. Apple
and apricot trees, berry bushes and grape vines have emerged
from winter dormancy about three weeks early, according to  Jim Allen , president of the  New York Apple Association  in Fishers.  New York has produced an average of 30 million bushels of
apples (42 pounds per bushel) a year since 2007, and is the
largest grower of McIntosh apples in the U.S. The 2011 crop was
worth $270 million to growers, according to the association.  Damage will be determined by “location, location,
location,” said Harry Humphreys, who grows grapes and apples
outside Dundee, New York. Farms farther from lakes may be colder
for longer periods than those near water, he said.  It will take about 36 hours for freeze damage to become
apparent, Paul Baker, executive director of the New York State
Berry Growers Association, said in an interview yesterday. At
that time, if the core of exposed buds has turned from green to
black, the bud won’t blossom, he said.  “We will start cutting into the buds tomorrow to see if
they’re brown,” said Nicholson, the apple grower from the
Geneva area.  Brad Rippey, a meteorologist with the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture , said yesterday that northern crops may escape
serious damage because their blossoming is not far enough along
to allow for maximum exposure to the cold.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net 
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  