-- New York Groups Spent Record $220 Million Lobbying Last Year
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-03-27T22:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/new-york-groups-spent-record-220-million-lobbying-last-year-1-.html
New York (STONY1)  businesses, unions and
other organizations spent a record $220 million on lobbying last
year, with a business-backed group that supports Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s agenda topping the list, a  report  shows.  The expenditures were $7 million more than in 2010, and
almost triple the $80 million spent in 2001, according to the
report released today by the Joint Commission on Public Ethics.
The panel was established last year by an ethics law supported
by Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat. The commission took over
record-keeping from its predecessor and was given broader
regulatory authority.  The  Committee to Save New York , currently running a
television advertising campaign in support of Cuomo’s budget
initiatives, spent $11.9 million last year, the report said.
 Service Employees International Union 1199 , which represents
health-care workers in the state, was the next biggest spender,
with $6.8 million, the report said.  “This represents our ongoing commitment to fight for
reforms in  Albany  and to ensure the progress continues,”
Michael McKeon, a spokesman for the Committee to Save New York,
said in a statement e-mailed today. “The special interests have
dominated for so long in Albany, it takes a real effort to bring
change.”  The committee is led by  Kathryn Wylde , president of the
Partnership for  New York City ; Rob Speyer, president of Tishman
Speyer, a real estate company that manages more than $50.2
billion in property; and Steven Spinola, president of the Real
Estate Board of New York.  “We set a record almost every year in lobbying,” Cuomo
said today at a press conference in Albany, the capital. “In a
perfect situation, that would be reduced.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany,  New York , at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  