-- Newfield Focused on Oil After First Gas Drilling Halt, CEO Says
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-03-27T22:42:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/newfield-focused-on-oil-after-first-gas-drilling-halt-ceo-says.html
Newfield Exploration Co. (NFX) , which
received about 70 percent of its output from natural gas in
2010, isn’t drilling for dry gas for the first time in its 24-
year history, Chief Executive Officer Lee Boothby said.  The company’s last gas drilling operation finished in
January in the Woodford Shale and the rig was moved to
 Oklahoma ’s oil-rich Cana Woodford, where Newfield has about
125,000 acres, Boothby said in an interview at the Howard Weil
conference in  New Orleans .  Gas for April delivery fell 1.8 cents to settle at $2.208
per million British thermal units in  New York  after falling to
$2.176, the lowest intraday price since February 2002. Newfield,
based in The Woodlands,  Texas , said last month it had deferred
about 2 billion cubic feet equivalent of gas and might halt more
production if prices fell further.  “Our view is natural-gas prices are likely to be lower
longer,” Boothby said today. “I’m not expecting a robust
rebound in gas prices in the next three years.”  The company is looking to boost onshore oil output in  North
America  this year through projects in such areas as the Uinta
Basin in Utah. Newfield said in February that output of
petroleum liquids such as crude is expected to rise by more than
20 percent, while gas output will fall about 15 percent on
natural field declines.  The company expects to receive about 48 percent of its
production from liquids in 2012 and about 80 percent of its
revenue, according to a slide presentation for the Howard Weil
conference.  Newfield is preparing to start its process of divesting
 Gulf of Mexico  assets, Boothby said. He declined to specify
whether the company would sell or spin off the assets or execute
another transaction.  “We would expect by mid-summer we’ll have some resolution
for plans in the Gulf of  Mexico ,” Boothby said.  The company is prepared to keep some or all of the Gulf
assets if it doesn’t get the right price, Boothby said. The
offshore properties are in both deep and shallow waters, he
said.  “The Gulf of Mexico, in the post-Macondo world, with
everything else we have going in North America onshore, isn’t a
good fit for us,” Boothby said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  