-- News Corp. Sues Saddam’s Lawyer Over News of the World Site
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-03-27T15:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/news-corp-sues-saddam-s-lawyer-over-news-of-the-world-site-2-.html
Giovanni Di Stefano, the Italian
lawyer for  Saddam Hussein  and former Serbian leader  Slobodan Milosevic , was sued by News Corp.’s U.K. unit for using a Web
address with the name of its defunct News of the World tabloid.  News of the World Online Ltd. and Di Stefano were sued on
March 23 in  London  over claims they violated News Corp.’s U.K.
trademark for the 168-year-old tabloid closed in July by
Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  in response to a phone-hacking scandal.  Di Stefano was charged by U.K. prosecutors a year ago with
 money laundering , stealing a BMW, lying about his legal
qualifications and obtaining money transfers and property by
deception. His fraud trial is scheduled to begin in January
2013, according to the U.K.’s Crown Prosecution Service.  Di Stefano, who frequently traveled to  Iraq  during cases
that resulted in Hussein being hanged in 2006, also represented
former Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz and former Iraqi
Vice President Taha Yassin Ramadan. He earlier represented U.K.
physician Harold Shipman, known as “Doctor Death” because he
murdered at least 215 of his patients over 23 years.  The lawyer didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment on the
lawsuit and phone numbers listed on his law firm’s website
weren’t answered.  In the fraud case, Di Stefano was detained on a European
Arrest Warrant from Spain in relation to events between 2004 and
2009, prosecutors said at the time. The CPS in London wasn’t
able to comment on whether Di Stefano was free on bail.  Public Outrage  Murdoch shuttered the News of the World to help contain
public outrage after it was revealed the tabloid hacked into the
voice mails of a murdered schoolgirl. London police have
arrested more than 30 people in three probes of the company and
identified more than 800 likely victims of the practice.  The disputed News of the World website isn’t currently
working. The site for the defunct paper, which is slightly
different from Di Stefano’s Web address, is maintained by  News
Corp. (NWSA)  and says, “Thank you and goodbye.” The tabloid was
Britain’s best-selling Sunday paper.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News Corp.’s U.K. unit,
News International, confirmed the lawsuit had been filed and
declined to comment further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  