-- No Revenue Means Steep Social Security Cuts Under Romney
-- B y   P e t e r   D i a m o n d   a n d   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-03-27T23:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/no-revenue-means-steep-social-security-cuts-under-romney.html
The basic contours of Mitt Romney’s approach to Social Security reform are coming into
focus, and the results aren’t pretty.  Because Romney insists that any change include no
additional revenue, his strategy is forced to rely on
excessive benefit cuts that would undermine financial
security for future retirees. A much better approach would
mix benefit reductions and revenue increases, as we have
proposed in the past, and as polls show the public prefers.  For about two-thirds of elderly Social Security
beneficiaries, the  payments  amount to more than half their
overall income. These benefits are protected against
financial-market fluctuations and inflation, and they last
until death. So they are a crucial form of insurance,
almost impossible to purchase, and they are particularly
useful during and after periods of severe economic stress,
like the one we have lived through these past few years.  Furthermore, Social Security isn’t the core of our
long-term fiscal problem. From now until 2050, if all
benefits are paid despite the projected exhaustion of the
 Trust Fund , its expenditures will rise from 5 percent of
gross domestic product to 6 percent, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office . Over the same period,
Medicare, Medicaid and other federal health expenditures
are projected to rise from 5.5 percent of GDP to 12
percent.  Need for Reform  Nonetheless, Social Security does face a long-term
deficit that needs to be addressed. Romney’s  website 
identifies two steps he would take: “First, for future
generations of seniors, Mitt believes that the  retirement
age  should be slowly increased to account for increases in
longevity. Second, for future generations of seniors, Mitt
believes that benefits should continue to grow but that the
growth rate should be lower for those with higher incomes.”
The website adds: “Mitt’s proposals will not raise taxes
and will not affect today’s seniors or those nearing
retirement.”  Romney has not yet filled in the details, but his
approach appears to match the “Social Security Solvency and
Sustainability Act”  proposed  last year by Republican
Senators Lindsey Graham of  South Carolina ,  Rand Paul  of
 Kentucky  and  Mike Lee  of Utah. That plan would, by 2032,
raise the normal retirement age under Social Security from
67 to 70, and it would adopt “progressive price indexing,”
which would reduce the future growth rate of benefits for
the top 60 percent of earners. (Their initial retirement
benefits would partly reflect inflation but not overall
wage growth during their careers.)  Lower earners would be affected by the increase in the
normal retirement age but not the progressive price-
indexing component. Middle earners would be affected by
both components, but the progressive price indexing would
be less severe for them than for the highest earners.  These two steps would eliminate the long-term deficit
in Social Security, according to the official analysis of
the plan done by the Office of the Chief Actuary at Social
Security. But they would do so by substantially reducing
benefits, even for middle earners. According to the
analysis, a medium earner (someone bringing in about
$45,000 a year today) retiring in 2050 at age 65 would
receive 32 percent less in annual benefits than under the
current formula. By 2080, the reduction would amount to
almost 40 percent.  A high earner (someone with income of about $70,000
currently) retiring in 2050 would get 40 percent less and,
by 2080, almost 50 percent.  A Balanced Solution  These benefit cuts are so large because the Romney
strategy forgoes any additional revenue. Plenty of other
Social Security reform plans take a more balanced approach,
combining gradual, and less severe, benefit reductions with
revenue proposals such as raising the wage level above
which Social Security payroll taxes no longer apply.  We put forward one such plan in a  2005 book . Updating
our plan for the intervening period, the medium earner
retiring in 2050 would experience a reduction in benefits
of less than 10 percent -- compared with more than 30
percent under a Romney-type approach.  The medium earner’s annual benefit in 2050 is
 currently projected  to amount to $25,000 a year in
inflation-adjusted terms. The Romney-type approach would
reduce that by about $7,500 a year. Under our plan, it
would be only about $2,500 lower. That $5,000 difference is
substantial, especially for someone whose retirement income
is mainly from Social Security.  We are not alone in recognizing the importance of
limiting future benefit cuts by raising additional revenue
for Social Security. As long ago as 1983, a  commission 
appointed by President  Ronald Reagan  and led by  Alan Greenspan  designed Social Security reform that combined
revenue increases with benefit cuts.  The need for such balance in Social Security reform is
a reflection of the broader struggle over the nation’s
fiscal gap. To restore long-term sustainability to the
budget as a whole, we need to combine spending cuts and
revenue increases -- both of which should be delayed, for
the present, to avoid harming a weak economy.  (Peter Diamond is a professor emeritus of economics at
the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and winner of the
2010  Nobel Prize  in economics.  Peter Orszag , vice chairman
of global banking at Citigroup Inc. and a former director
of the Office of Management and Budget in the Obama
administration, is a Bloomberg View columnist. They are
coauthors of “Saving Social Security: A Balanced Approach.”
The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on  China ’s  clean-coal
technology , Ireland’s  economic woes  and  Syria ’s  muddled
opposition . William Pesek on  Japan’s workplace
discrimination .  Margaret Carlson  on  Trayvon Martin and Al
Sharpton . Meghan O’Sullivan on  Iraq’s economic salvation .
Clive Crook on the writings of a  potential World Bank
president.  And  Simon Johnson  and  James Kwak  on how the U.S.
became  banker to the world .  To contact the writers of this article:
 Peter Diamond  at  pdiamond@mit.edu 
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  