-- Japan Faces Tax Battle as DPJ Finishes Plan on Sales Levy
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-03-28T07:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/noda-finalizes-tax-plan-as-stage-set-for-battle-in-japan-s-diet.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s ruling party completed its plan to double the nation’s
consumption tax, clearing the way for the Cabinet to approve the
legislation and submit it to parliament.  The  Democratic Party  of Japan decided early today on
wording that says the levy could be halted in the event of
“drastic” changes to the country’s economic outlook. The
Cabinet is scheduled on March 30 to approve the measure to raise
the sales levy to 8 percent in April 2014 and 10 percent in
October 2015, DPJ tax-panel chief Shinichiro Furumoto told
reporters.  Submitting the legislation to parliament may force a battle
with the opposition  Liberal Democratic Party , which supported a
similar plan when it held power until 2009. While Noda said
earlier this month he believes the parties can reach an
agreement, LDP leader Sadakazu Tanigaki has suggested new
elections should be called first.  “Given the development of political discussions, it’s
getting increasingly unclear whether Noda’s government can
conduct a vote for the sales tax bill during the current Diet
session and pass it,” said  Kiichi Murashima , chief economist at
Citigroup Global Markets Japan Inc. in  Tokyo . “The LDP, the
largest opposition group, won’t likely cooperate on the bill
easily.”  Growth Targets  The DPJ bill agreed on this morning did not include
specific economic-growth targets the government would have to
meet before implementing the tax, which some lawmakers had
called for. The government should “aim to achieve” an average
of 2 percent growth in real terms and 3 percent nominal growth
for the decade through the 2020 fiscal year, it said.  The final version eliminated previous wording that
suggested additional increases beyond 10 percent would
eventually be needed to finance the country’s swelling pension
and social welfare costs.  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told reporters this morning the
government is not “backing down” from its resolve to raise the
tax because wording on future increases was removed.  Failure to reach a compromise threatens to deepen gridlock
as  Japan  struggles to recover from last year’s earthquake and
nuclear disaster. The impasse could also push up bond yields,
depriving the government of financing a record debt burden with
the world’s second-lowest borrowing costs.  Yields Fall  Japan’s benchmark  10-year yields  fell 1 basis point from
yesterday to 1.000 percent at 3:30 p.m. in Tokyo, down from a
three-month high of 1.06 percent reached March 15. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  The DPJ push on the bill has deepened a rift within the
ruling party, with 70 members signing a statement last night to
protest ending discussions, tax opponent and DPJ member Shozo
Azuma told reporters.  “Unfortunately, our discussions were cut off suddenly,”
DPJ lawmaker Hiroshi Kawauchi said after the meeting.  Former  Bank of Japan (8301)  Deputy Governor Kazumasa Iwata said in
a Jan. 25 interview that if Noda fails, “it will have a very
big impact on the market.”  Political squabbling may also imperil Japan’s credit. The
stable outlook on Japan’s Aa3 rating from Moody’s Investors
Service is predicated on the consumption tax increase “being at
least partially implemented before 2015,”  Thomas Byrne , who is
responsible for the ratings of Japan and other major Asian
economies, said at a press conference in Tokyo last month.  Rating Outlook  Standard & Poor’s  in November said it may be preparing to
lower the sovereign rating given Noda’s lack of progress in
tackling the debt issue. S&P rates Japan AA- and has had a
negative outlook since April.  The government may have a revenue shortfall of 50.8
trillion yen ($614 billion) in the fiscal year starting April
2015 without an increase in the  sales tax , according to a
finance ministry estimate published in January. Such a gap would
contrast with the Noda administration’s pledge to limit new bond
sales to about 44 trillion yen a year through fiscal 2014.  Japan’s parliament may pass a provisional budget for the
next fiscal year on March 30, the Asahi newspaper reported,
without saying where it got the information. Noda’s Cabinet is
likely to approve the 3.6 trillion yen budget on March 28 or 29,
the newspaper said.  The LDP’s Tanigaki said on NHK Television March 2 that “it
would be best” for Noda to seek a new mandate before submitting
his tax legislation. He denied media reports that he and Noda
met on Feb. 25 to discuss the situation.  The LDP’s own platform calls for raising the  consumption
tax  and Tanigaki, a former finance minister, called for doubling
the levy in 2006. Opposition lawmakers have criticized Noda’s
inability to cut spending.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  