-- Obama Has Made a Mess of the World Bank Succession
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-03-27T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/obama-has-made-a-mess-of-the-world-bank-succession.html
Barack Obama’s decision to nominate
Dartmouth College President Jim Yong Kim to head the  World Bank 
has been well received.  The prevailing view is that Kim is a smart solution to a
tricky little problem: How to maintain a strong U.S. role in the
bank while bowing to the growing economic might of developing
nations such as China.  I don’t think so.  First and foremost, the appointment of Kim, a U.S. citizen,
would perpetuate the indefensible custom by which an American
heads the World Bank and a European runs the  International
Monetary Fund . Until Kim’s name was put forward, there was wide
agreement that the job calls for a highly qualified non-
American. The strength of sentiment against the traditional
stitch-up is what made the nomination to succeed  Robert Zoellick , who steps down from the bank this summer, more awkward
for the White House than usual.  The unstated position of those who praise the choice seems
to be that Kim isn’t entirely American, that his Asian name
makes him the next best thing to a foreigner. How clever: The
White House gets to appoint both an American, thus preserving
its feudal privilege, and a non-American, thus being an
enlightened world citizen. The core of this reasoning is the
dumbest kind of racism. So far as I know, the U.S. has just one
class of citizenship. Kim is an American.  Let’s remind ourselves, as we apparently need to, why the
current arrangement is wrong. The World Bank and the IMF are the
pre-eminent institutions of global economic governance. The
recent worldwide contraction suggests that their role should be
enlarged, not diminished. Both outfits are called on to advise
or require governments to be better run, to attack corruption
and the power of special interests, to uphold the highest
standards of propriety.  It is odd, then, that the U.S. and  Europe  -- with their
diminishing weight in the global economy -- reserve the right to
grant the top jobs in those institutions to their own nationals,
according to any criteria they think fit, including bestowing
rewards on old friends. This spoils system extends to lower
layers, tainting the entire leadership structure in both
agencies. Europe and the U.S. then add insult to injury by
prating about their commitment to “open, merit-based
competition” in appointments. It’s a gross abuse, one that
Europe and the U.S. would never tolerate were they on the
receiving end.  Granted, it is vital to appoint an outstanding candidate.
This does in fact trump all other considerations. Even more than
the IMF, the World Bank will have to change its ways. Today’s
fast-growing middle-income countries can access the  capital
markets  directly. It’s widely acknowledged that in the future
the institution should be less a bank and more a repository of
knowledge about what works in development. Supervising this
transition is a management challenge of the highest order.  If the U.S. had nominated someone superbly qualified, that
ought to weigh heavily in the balance -- even if it would
preserve the spoils system, and even though it wrongly implies
that no other country could furnish as strong a candidate.  Is Kim superbly qualified? He’s a doctor and
anthropologist, a health-policy specialist, a former leader of
the  World Health Organization ’s HIV-AIDS program. That
experience would be valuable at the bank, but it’s a narrow area
of expertise. Kim has no credentials in development economics or
finance, which must remain the bank’s core competencies.  Also, it’s disturbing -- to me at least -- that his record
includes co-editorship of a 2000  volume  pointedly titled “Dying
for Growth,” an attack on markets, capitalism, globalization and
the policies of the bank and the IMF trenchant enough to win
praise from Noam Chomsky and a respectful review in the Review
of Radical Political Economics.  At the top of the bank I expect that Kim would soon learn,
if he hasn’t already, that market-driven economic growth is the
only basis for lasting success against poverty and the disease
and environmental degradation that go with it. Growth might not
be a sufficient condition for social progress, but it’s
certainly a necessary one (notwithstanding Cuba, where “Dying
for Growth” finds much to admire). Nobody who questions this
should be running the World Bank.  One of the other candidates in contention for the job is
Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala. She’s a two-time minister of finance in
 Nigeria , where by all accounts she acquitted herself with
distinction. She has also worked as a senior manager at the
bank, so she knows what needs mending. You could argue she’s too
much of an insider to be radical -- in advance, who knows? But
on paper, at least, her qualifications are far better than
Kim’s.  Look at it this way: If the two could swap passports, would
anybody in the White House be making the case for Kim?  The White House should have supported Okonjo-Iweala, and
would have been widely praised for doing so. Now that the U.S.
has put forward its nominee, the betting is that it will get its
way. Europe, keen to preserve its standing in the spoils system,
is unlikely to object. One can only hope that the rest of the
world complains so loudly that next time things will be
different, and an American president will finally bring this
ridiculous tradition to an end.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on  China ’s  clean-coal
technology , Ireland’s  economic woes  and  Syria ’s  muddled
opposition . William Pesek on  Japan’s workplace discrimination .
 Margaret Carlson  on  Trayvon Martin and Al Sharpton . Meghan
O’Sullivan on  Iraq’s economic salvation .  Peter Orszag  and  Peter
Diamond  on  Mitt Romney’s Social Security plan . And  Simon Johnson 
and  James Kwak  on how the U.S. became  banker to the world .  To contact the author of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at 
 mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 