-- Obama Says ‘Bad Actors’ Trying to Get Nuclear Material
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-03-27T04:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/obama-says-bad-actors-trying-to-get-hands-on-nuclear-material.html
President  Barack Obama  said there
are “still too many bad actors” in the world trying to get
their hands on nuclear material, which could result in a terror
attack that kills large numbers of people.  “These dangerous materials are still vulnerable in too
many places,” Obama said today at the opening session of the
Nuclear Security Summit in  Seoul , which has drawn more than 40
world leaders. “It would not take much, just a handful or so of
these materials, to kill hundreds of thousands of innocent
people and that’s not an exaggeration, that’s the reality that
we face.”  Obama, who inaugurated the first nuclear security summit in
 Washington  DC in 2010, warned against “complacency” in
preventing loose nuclear material from getting into the hands of
terrorist groups. The legacy of the  Soviet Union ’s breakup,
inadequate atomic stockpile controls and the proliferation of
nuclear-fuel technology mean the world has lost precise count of
atomic material, which could be used to make a weapon.  There are at least 2 million kilograms (4.4 million pounds)
of stockpiled weapons-grade nuclear material left over from
decommissioned bombs and atomic-fuel plants, according to the
International Panel on Fissile Materials, a nonprofit Princeton,
New Jersey research institute that tracks nuclear material.
That’s enough to make at least 100,000 new nuclear weapons on
top of the 20,000 bombs already in weapon-state stockpiles.  Terrorist Threat  Because a terrorist needs only about 25 kilograms of
highly-enriched uranium or 8 kilograms of plutonium to improvise
a bomb, the margin of error for material accounting is small.  “There is no effective way to deter terrorist groups from
using nuclear materials once they have it,” South Korean
President  Lee Myung Bak  said at the opening session. “The most
optimal way to prevent nuclear terrorism is to promptly minimize
and eventually eliminate excess nuclear materials, which can be
used as ingredients for nuclear weapons.”  A nuclear-armed terrorist attack on the U.S. port in  Long
Beach ,  California , would kill 60,000 people and cost as much as
$1 trillion in damage and cleanup, according to a 2006 Rand
study commissioned by the Department of  Homeland Security . Even
a low-level radiological or dirty-bomb attack on Washington,
while causing a limited number of deaths, would lead to damages
of $100 billion, according to Igor Khripunov, the Soviet Union’s
former arms-control envoy to the U.S. He is now at the  Athens ,
Georgia-based Center for International Trade and Security.  Leaders may pledge tighter controls over nuclear materials
to keep them out of the hands of terrorists, according to the
draft of a communique to be released today at the end of the
meeting. Securing vulnerable nuclear material before the next
Nuclear Security Summit in 2014 is the top priority, according
to a copy of the six-page working document obtained by Bloomberg
News.  “The threat remains,” Obama said today. “That’s why
what’s required continues to be a serious and sustained
effort.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Seoul at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Seoul at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  