-- Obama Says Confident U.S., Pakistan Can Repair Strained Ties
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-03-27T10:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/obama-says-confident-u-s-pakistan-can-repair-strained-ties-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said he’s
confident the U.S. and Pakistan will be able to build a
relationship that both recognizes Pakistani sovereignty and
addresses American security concerns.  Speaking before talks with Pakistan’s prime minister,
 Yousuf Raza Gilani , Obama said it was important for the two
countries to “get it right” as they seek to restore ties which
he conceded had seen strains. Last year’s killing in Pakistan of
al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden and a November air attack by
U.S. helicopters that killed 24 Pakistani soldiers angered
Pakistan’s government and military.  Obama said he hoped to achieve “the kind of balanced
approach” that respects Pakistan’s sovereignty while allowing
the U.S. to “battle terrorists who have targeted us in the
past.” He was speaking to reporters in  Seoul  where both leaders
were attending a nuclear security summit.  Obama and Gilani met as the U.S. and Pakistan are
discussing the future of Central Intelligence Agency drone
strikes on al-Qaeda and other targets in Pakistan’s northwest.
Gilani’s government has refused to reopen border crossings into
Afghanistan that it closed to trucks supplying U.S.-led NATO
forces following the November attack.  After their talks today, U.S. Deputy National Security
Adviser  Ben Rhodes  told reporters that the two men had been able
to make “important progress” and were “working through the
tensions.” Rhodes said that the U.S. would welcome Pakistani
participation at a NATO meeting in  Chicago  in May.  Apology Demand  The U.S. needs Pakistan’s help as Obama withdraws troops
from its neighbor  Afghanistan  and bids to negotiate peace terms
with Taliban guerrillas and other militants, some of which find
refuge in Pakistan’s tribal areas. Gilani said today that
Pakistan is committed to fighting extremism and terrorism and
ensuring stability across its western border.  Pakistan’s military blames the U.S. for the November
incident and has demanded an apology, while no charges in the
U.S. are expected because officials say the Pakistanis fired
first, triggering confusion between the forces in a mountainous
region.  Pakistan’s legislature last week began a debate on the
future of the relationship between the two countries, a
discussion which Obama said today he welcomed. The country’s
national security committee, in a report to lawmakers, demanded
an end to all drone missions and the imposition of new charges
on supplies for U.S. troops.  The CIA’s drones are used to collect intelligence and kill
members of the Taliban, al-Qaeda and allied groups in their
sanctuaries in  Pakistan ’s tribal areas, and are central to the
U.S. strategy to curb militancy in the region.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  