-- Obama’s Labor-Board Picks Don’t Derail Lawsuit, Judge Rules
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-03-27T22:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/obama-s-labor-board-picks-don-t-derail-lawsuit-judge-rules-1-.html
A court petition seeking to halt a
lockout of  Brooklyn , New York, workers was valid, a federal
judge ruled, rejecting claims that it wasn’t because the
 National Labor Relations Board  that voted to file it didn’t have
a quorum to do so.  The landlord in a dispute with 70 workers at the Brooklyn
apartment complex said the lawsuit wasn’t legal because it was
voted on by a board with three so-called recess appointments
President Barack Obama made in January when the Senate wasn’t in
session. U.S. District Judge Brian M. Cogan refused to dismiss
the petition, saying the NLRB’s general counsel had the power to
authorize the suit.  “This court will not make any pronouncements on the
constitutionality of President Obama’s recess appointments to
the NLRB,” Cogan wrote in his ruling today.  Obama appointed three members to the board on Jan. 4,
bypassing the Senate by asserting lawmakers were in recess and
unable to act on nominations. A president is permitted to make
appointments without Senate confirmation during a recess.
Republicans dispute that was the case at the time.  Obama has since sent the Senate the nominations of the
three candidates.  Cogan ordered the landlord, Brooklyn-based Renaissance
Equity Holdings LLC, to reinstate the workers.  ‘Carefully Considered’  “Judge Cogan’s opinion is a carefully considered one, and
the reinstatement terms set by the court are similar to the
terms Renaissance previously offered to the union,” James M.
McGuire, a lawyer for the landlord at Dechert LLP in Manhattan,
said in a phone interview.  Nancy Cleeland , an NLRB spokeswoman, didn’t have an
immediate comment.  The NLRB said the lawsuit was validly filed because last
year it gave Lafe Solomon, its acting general counsel, authority
to approve such court actions. Cogan disagreed with the
landlord’s contention that the general counsel’s power ended
when the board lost its quorum.  Cogan said at least three times during a March 1 hearing
that the appointments were made to avoid the Senate’s role in
consenting to nominations.  The labor board started this year with two members, which
isn’t enough to make decisions such as whether to file the
Brooklyn case. Obama then appointed Sharon Block,  Richard
Griffin  and  Terence Flynn .  ‘Pro Forma Sessions’  On Jan. 6, the U.S.  Justice Department  issued a memo that
“the convening of periodic pro forma sessions in which no
business is to be conducted” doesn’t preclude the president
from making recess appointments.  The issue of the appointments has come up in other cases.  Trade groups including the  National Association of
Manufacturers  on March 3 lost a bid to have the appointments
declared invalid in a federal lawsuit in  Washington . The groups
appealed that decision by U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson, who said they “attempted to shoehorn a challenge” to
the recess appointments into a case over a rule mandating that
companies notify workers of their rights to form a union.  On March 15, U.S. District Judge George B. Daniels in
 Manhattan  also ruled that a petition authorized by Solomon was
valid. In that case, the NLRB accuses a New York supermarket of
firing five workers for seeking to unionize.  Higher Wages  Renaissance, which owns Flatbush Gardens, a 59-building,
2,500-unit complex in the Flatbush neighborhood, said the Senate
never adjourned and that the president can’t make recess
appointments when the legislative body holds “pro forma”
sessions, which it said it did.  The Flatbush porters and handymen were frozen out of their
jobs in November 2010 after they refused to accept a pay cut of
at least 30 percent. The Service Employees International Union
Local 32BJ is seeking to have them returned to work at the
higher wages they were making while the dispute is resolved.  The labor board filed the court case on Jan. 25 saying
there was “reasonable cause to believe” that Renaissance
engaged in unfair labor practices and the lockout should end.  The union said in court papers that Renaissance is trying
to eliminate organized workers from the complex.  Cogan granted an injunction forcing Renaissance to bargain
in good faith with the union and reinstate the locked-out
employees, finding the NLRB made a reasonable showing that the
landlord engaged in unfair labor violations, including failing
to provide its complete financial information.  Previous Conditions  He ordered the workers back on the job under previous
conditions except for a 20 percent cut in pay. Cogan said that
it would be improper “to force Renaissance to resume paying the
wages that Renaissance has persistently contended it cannot
afford” and that the union showed indifference toward its need
to reduce costs.  “The judge’s decision to end a 16-month lockout and order
Renaissance Equity Holdings back to the bargaining table is
vindication for 70-plus workers in a David and Goliath type of
battle,” Hector Figueroa, secretary-treasurer of the union,
said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is Paulsen v. Renaissance Equity Holdings LLC, 12-
cv-350, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of  New York 
(Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 