-- Mobius Leads Saudi Bulls on Volatility: Riskless Return
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-03-28T14:05:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/mobius-leads-saudi-bulls-on-volatility-riskless-return.html
Money managers from  Mark Mobius  to
John Burbank are bullish on  Saudi Arabia , where stocks are
producing the world’s best risk-adjusted gains in 2012 with
lower volatility than longer-term U.S. Treasuries.  The BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING shows the Tadawul All
Share Index climbed 2.5 percent this year through yesterday
after adjusting for price swings, the biggest advance among
equity gauges in 73 nations, as oil rallied and speculation grew
that the world’s biggest crude exporter will remove restrictions
on foreign investors. Volatility in Saudi Arabia is the third-
lowest among the world’s 25 biggest markets and dropped below
that of the Bloomberg/EFFAS U.S. Government 10+ Year Index of
long-term bonds for the first time since 1996.  The Saudi gauge rose on 76 percent of trading days this
year as oil climbed more than 16 percent, financial stocks such
as  Allianz Saudi Fransi Cooperative Insurance Co. (ALLIANZ)  rallied, the
government boosted spending and investors speculated the country
will allow overseas money managers to take direct stakes in
local companies. While Shuaa Capital PSC predicts foreign
investment will lead to bigger price swings, Mobius and Burbank,
founder of hedge fund Passport Capital LLC, say the potential
for further gains outweighs the risks when the market opens.  “There are a lot of good, interesting stocks in Saudi
Arabia because it’s a very fast growing consumer market, young
population, high growth, and of course lots of wealth that’s
going to be distributed more and more,” Mobius, who oversees
about $44 billion as the Singapore-based executive chairman of
Franklin Templeton’s Emerging Markets Group, said in a March 23
phone interview. “It’s only within the last few years that we
have had holdings there and we continue to increase our
holdings.”  Falling Volatility  The  Tadawul (SASEIDX)  index rose 0.2 percent to 7,782.84 today.  Mobius, whose Luxembourg-based  Templeton Frontier Markets (TEMFMAU) 
Fund has climbed 18 percent this year and outperformed 89
percent of peers, currently invests in Saudi Arabia’s $408
billion stock market through notes issued by local banks or
brokers that are designed to track domestic shares.  Foreign investors outside the Gulf Cooperation Council
countries can’t purchase Saudi shares directly. Instead, they
access the market through derivatives, mutual funds or exchange-
traded funds, according to Khaled Khattaf, a managing director
at Nomura Holdings Inc.’s Saudi Arabia unit. The government
allowed citizens of the neighboring GCC states to trade shares
in 2007.  The risk-adjusted return is calculated by dividing total
return by volatility. The returns aren’t annualized.  Beating BRICs  The Tadawul index’s volatility, or the degree of daily
price-swing variation, has dropped to 9.1 this year from 20 in
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Only benchmark
stock indexes in Malaysia and Chile had lower volatility among
major markets tracked by Bloomberg in 2012.  The  Bloomberg/EFFAS Treasury (USG5TR)  index’s volatility slipped to
12 from 16 last year. Longer-term U.S. government bond yields
have climbed this year after data showing the world’s largest
economy is recovering. The Tadawul index has had a higher annual
volatility than the Treasury gauge every year since 1996,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Saudi stock index returned 22 percent this year
including dividends through yesterday, compared with a 13
percent gain in the MSCI All-Country World Index. Egypt’s EGX30
Index advanced 38 percent for the top gain among equity indexes
in  emerging markets .  Brazil ’s Bovespa added 17 percent for the
biggest increase among the so-called BRIC countries that also
include Russia, India and  China . On a risk-adjusted basis, the
Bovespa rose 0.9 percent, less than half the Tadawul index’s
gain.  Government Spending  Price swings in Saudi Arabia have diminished and shares
have rallied amid increased investor confidence that the
government will take steps to bolster economic growth, said
Burbank, who oversees about $3.8 billion as founder and chief
investment officer of Passport Capital, a multistrategy hedge
fund in  San Francisco .  The government announced a 2012 spending plan of 690
billion riyals ($184 billion), or 19 percent bigger than last
year’s target, on Dec. 26. That follows a $130 billion stimulus
plan to build homes and boost employment among the country’s 27
million people, measures unveiled in the first quarter of 2011
amid popular uprisings in Egypt and Tunisia.  Saudi Arabia, which holds the world’s largest proven oil
reserves, has more than $550 billion of foreign assets,
according to the country’s central bank.  Bullish Burbank  The nation’s gross government debt amounts to 6.1 percent
of gross domestic product, compared with a global average of 80
percent, according to the Washington-based  International
Monetary Fund . The economy may expand 3.6 percent this year
after growing 6.5 percent in 2011, according to IMF estimates.  “I’m just as bullish” after the rally, Burbank, who
invests in the Saudi market through notes and swaps, said in a
March 26 phone interview. “This is just the beginning. It’s the
belated recognition of the economic growth being faster and more
dependable, given the government having such little debt and
getting the resolve to redeploy oil surpluses.”  Burbank said high dividends make Saudi stocks attractive
relative to local  interest rates  and shares in other developing
nations. The Tadawul index has an estimated dividend yield of
3.4 percent, compared with a rate of about 0.6 percent on one-
year government debt and a projected payout of 3 percent from
the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Genuine Step’  Passport Capital plans to offer a new share class of its
global fund starting April 1 to give investors access to just
the Saudi stock market, according to a person familiar with the
matter who declined to be named because the information is
private. Passport, which slumped 18 percent in 2011, gained 3.7
percent this year through February, two people with knowledge of
the matter said last week.  Steve Bruce, a spokesman for the firm, declined to comment.  The Saudi Arabian Capital Market Authority has held
discussions with international banks to open the exchange to
foreign investors this year, three bankers familiar with the
matter said in October.  The market regulator said on Jan. 22 it will allow overseas
companies to list securities in  Riyadh . The move is a “genuine
step” towards removing restrictions on foreign investment, said
Ibrahim Masood, who helps manage about $400 million at
Mashreqbank PSC in Dubai.  Raid Qusti, a senior media officer at the Capital Market
Authority, declined to comment. Officials for the nation’s
bourse didn’t reply to e-mailed requests for comment from
Bloomberg News.  Speculative Gains  Investors who bought Saudi shares this year on speculation
the government will soon relax restrictions on foreign
investment may be disappointed, according to Slim Feriani, who
oversees about $800 million as the chief investment officer at
Advance Emerging Capital in  London .  “It sounds like they are nearly there, the concern is that
‘nearly there’ could be more than a year, in which case maybe
the market has run a bit ahead of itself,” said Feriani, who
accesses the Saudi market through local investment funds. “From
a timing point of view it’s a bit premature to price in a real
opening in the next few weeks or months.”  Some of Saudi Arabia’s smallest companies by market value
have led this year’s rally, a sign to Shuaa Capital’s Nadi Bargouti that the gains may be shortlived because speculators
are driving the market’s advance. The 30-day average value of
shares traded on the nation’s bourse has surged more than 150
percent this year, the second-biggest gain among the world’s top
40 markets after Dubai, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Not Sustainable’  Riyadh-based Allianz Saudi Fransi Cooperative Insurance,
with a market value equivalent to $439 million, has surged 200
percent this year for the top gain in the Tadawul index.  Saudi
Public Transport Co. (SAPTCO) , a Riyadh-based bus operator with a market
capitalization of $600 million, climbed 97 percent.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s largest
petrochemicals maker with a market capitalization of $87
billion, has gained 13 percent. Al-Rajhi Bank, a Riyadh-based
lender whose equity is valued at $33 billion, has increased 18
percent.  “The current low level of volatility is definitely not
sustainable” in the next few months, said Bargouti, head of
asset management at Shuaa Capital in Dubai. In the longer term,
volatility will move higher as foreign investors play a bigger
role in the market, Bargouti said.  Banks, Sabic  Saudi stocks may retreat should tensions between  Iran   and
western nations lead to a military conflict, said Yong Wei Lee,
who helps oversee about $1.2 billion as a senior  fund manager  at
Emirates NBD Asset Management in Dubai. Investor withdrawals
from assets at risk in such a conflict would overwhelm the
benefit from higher  oil prices , Lee said.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said March 4 he takes “no
options off the table,” including a “military effort,” to
stop the government in Tehran from obtaining a nuclear weapon.  Yasser Bu-Khamseen, a 30-year-old resident of Riyadh who
works in the investment industry, said he invests a portion of
his salary in the stock market almost every month. He’s avoiding
“speculative” stocks in industries such as insurance and
predicts petrochemicals companies and banks will benefit from
increased investment by foreign money managers and the nation’s
economic expansion.  Cheap Stocks  “I attribute the recent advance in the Saudi bourse to the
improved earnings outlook of major listed companies and the
strong speculation about the market being opened for direct
foreign investment,” Bu-Khamseen said in a phone interview.  Saudi Basic Industries, known as Sabic, is valued at 11
times estimated earnings, compared with a median of 13 times for
global peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Al-Rajhi
Bank (RJHI) ’s return on equity last year was 23 percent, twice as high
as the MSCI All-Country World Financials Index’s 11.3 percent
return on equity, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The macro and micro in Saudi Arabia continues to be
strong and as such we expect this volume increase to continue,”
Ahmed Beydoun, the Dubai-based head of equities for the  Middle
East  and North Africa at Deutsche Bank AG, said by e-mail.
“Stocks are still relatively cheap.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  