-- OCI Gains Most in 3 Weeks on Gavilon, Contract Wins: Cairo Mover
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-03-27T10:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/oci-gains-most-in-3-weeks-on-gavilon-contract-wins-cairo-mover.html
Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC) 
rose the most in three weeks after posting the highest amount in
building contract awards in almost four years and revealing it
was close to selling a stake in Gavilon Group LLC.  Orascom gained 2.6 percent, the biggest intraday rise since
March 6, to 257 Egyptian pounds at 11:25 a.m. in Cairo, valuing
the company at 53.2 billion pounds ($8.8 billion). The benchmark
 EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  increased 2.1 percent.  The sale of its 16.8 percent stake in Nebraska-based
Gavilon is “imminent,” Chief Executive Officer  Nassef Sawiris 
said by phone today. The company is also looking to divest a
13.5 percent holding in  Nigeria ’s Notore Chemical Industries
Ltd. which is preparing for an initial public offering.  “We can use the money toward growing the company,” said
Sawiris. Orascom had bought a 20 percent stake in Gavilon in
2008 for $340 million to boost its fertilizer and agricultural
supply business.  Orascom secured $1.58 billion in construction contracts in
the fourth quarter, including an $810 million agreement to build
the Egyptian Grand Museum.  “All the countries we’re operating in are accelerating
government infrastructure spending,” Sawiris said, referring to
the United Arab Emirates,  Saudi Arabia , Qatar and  Iraq . The
company’s construction backlog will continue to grow, he said.  Fourth-quarter profit fell 34 percent to $122.6 million
because of one-off charges including an early debt repayment,
the company said today in a statement on  its website . That
compares with the $172.1 million average of four  analyst
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Orascom said it expects to hold a shareholder meeting next
month to seek approval for splitting the company in two,
separating its construction and fertilizer businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  