-- OECD Says ECB Should Mull More Measures if Crisis Worsens
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-03-27T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/oecd-says-ecb-should-mull-more-measures-if-crisis-worsens.html
The  European Central Bank  should
consider providing more liquidity and commit to keeping rates
low for longer if the sovereign debt crisis threatens to choke
off an already fragile economic recovery, the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said.  “If the crisis were to re-intensify,” non-standard
measures “may need to be widened to support the monetary
transmission mechanism and maintain  price stability ,” the
Paris-based  OECD  said in a report published today. “Commitments
to maintaining low interest rates for a long period could also
be considered, although communication implications would need to
be assessed.”  The ECB has loaned banks more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) for three years at its  benchmark rate , which is
currently at a record low of 1 percent, to keep credit flowing.
With the 17-nation euro economy showing signs of stabilizing,
ECB policy makers have signaled they’re reluctant to add to
stimulus measures and started to talk about their eventual
withdrawal.  “While the effect of recent ECB measures is still
unfolding, the outlook for growth is unusually uncertain and
depends critically on the resolution of the sovereign debt
crisis,” the OECD said. “While effective policy action to
resolve the crisis could lead to a stronger than anticipated and
earlier recovery in confidence and investment, there are large
downside risks as the lack of effective policy action would open
the way to a severe recession.”  Economic Outlook  The ECB this month predicted the euro-area economy will
contract 0.1 percent this year and expand 1.1 percent in 2013.
The OECD today reiterated its November projections for growth of
0.2 percent this year and 1.4 percent next year.  Economists predict the Frankfurt-based ECB will keep
 interest rates  unchanged through mid-2013, a Bloomberg News
survey shows.  The region’s debt crisis has eased after the ECB’s
liquidity support reopened financial markets and European Union
leaders sealed a second Greek bailout package. Finance ministers
will this week discuss expanding the region’s financial backstop
to improve confidence in the single currency.  “Immediate action is required to ensure sufficient and
large-scale availability of a firewall to stop the dynamics of
runs against solvent sovereigns,” the OECD said. “The funds
should be available on a scale sufficient to withstand possible
future requests for financial assistance.”  “These possible needs could include estimated refinancing
needs of vulnerable euro-area countries of over 1 trillion euros
over the coming two years and contributions to the
recapitalization of euro-area banks,” the OECD said. “Although
it is unclear that funds on this scale would ever need to be
drawn down, the availability of credible firewalls may enhance
confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  