-- Oil Advances for Third Day as U.S. Economy Shows Strength
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-03-27T20:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/oil-steady-in-new-york-reversing-earlier-gain-of-0-4-.html
Oil climbed for a third day in New
York as reports showed strength in the  U.S. economy  and on
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will keep stimulative monetary
policies in place to bolster growth.  Crude rose 0.3 percent as property values in 20 U.S. cities
dropped at a slower pace and confidence among consumers in March
stayed near a one-year high. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
signaled yesterday that the central bank will continue economic
stimulus. Trading volume was near the lowest levels of the year.  “We’re searching for a catalyst to push us strongly one
way or the other,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again
Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy.
“The good economic news has been fully factored into the
price.”  Crude oil for May delivery rose 30 cents to $107.33 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since March 19. Futures have gained 8.6 percent this
year after increasing 25 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011.  Prices were little changed after the  American Petroleum
Institute  reported oil supplies rose 3.6 million barrels to
351.5 million last week. The May contract was down 1 cent at
$107.02 at 4:32 p.m. in electronic trading. It traded at $107.06
a barrel before the report.  Brent oil for May settlement fell 11 cents to end the
session at $125.54 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to
New York-traded West Texas Intermediate narrowed to $18.21 from
$18.62 yesterday. It reached a record of $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Economic Data  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of  home prices  in 20 cities
declined 3.8 percent from a year earlier, matching the median
forecast of 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, after
decreasing 4.1 percent in December.  The Conference Board’s confidence index dropped to 70.2
from a revised 71.6 reading in February that was higher than
initially reported, figures from the New York-based private
research group showed today. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a decrease to 70.  Oil also rose a day after Bernanke cited high levels of
long-term unemployment and wages below pre-crisis peaks. The
comments in a speech in Arlington, Virginia, added to
expectations that the Fed will keep  interest rates  low and may
take other measures to support the economy.  “The economy has been OK but not great,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of IAF Advisors, a Houston-based consulting
firm. “With the economic data coming in like this, Bernanke
made it clear that he would take action. We’re going to continue
to see significant monetary stimulus.”  Strategic Reserve  Futures dropped as much as 0.5 percent in intraday trading
after an Energy Department official said a release of oil from
the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve was possible. Charles McConnell, the acting assistant secretary for fossil energy,
said at a hearing in  Washington  that a withdrawal is “being
considered.”  Energy Secretary Steven Chu has made similar comments to
McConnell’s in recent weeks. President Barack Obama discussed
releasing emergency oil supplies with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  on March 14. No agreement was reached, according to
Cameron and  Jay Carney , the White House press secretary.  Oil in  New York  has traded from $102.25 to $110.55 a barrel
since Feb. 17 as Western countries have imposed sanctions on
Iran aimed at halting its nuclear program. The price in March
has ranged from $103.78 to $110.55.  “The market is in the doldrums right now,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in
Winchester, Massachusetts. “We’re waiting on more information
on the U.S. economy and for the next Iran headlines.”  Iran Production  Iran, the second-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 3.45 million barrels a day
last month, the lowest level since September 2002, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Saudi Arabia  is the leading
producer.  An Energy Department report tomorrow will probably show
that U.S. stockpiles  rose  to a six-month high last week,
according to a Bloomberg News survey.  U.S. crude inventories increased 2.55 million barrels, or
0.7 percent, to 348.8 million in the seven days ending March 23,
according to the median of 12  analyst estimates  in the survey
before tomorrow’s report. Supplies climbed after weather-related
delays along the  Gulf of Mexico  subsided.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 361,841
contracts at 4:32 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 284,980
contracts yesterday, less than half the average of the past
three months and the lowest level since Dec. 27. Open interest
was 1.55 million.  “Last week we moved more than a dollar each day,” said
 Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford, Connecticut. “Traders are leery after those quick
changes, which may explain the lack of volume this week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  