-- Oilseed Stocks to Fall on South American Dryness, Oil World Says
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-03-27T10:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/oilseed-stocks-to-fall-on-south-american-dryness-oil-world-says.html
Global stockpiles of 10 oilseeds
will plunge 18 percent and production will reach a three-year
low as dry weather cuts soybean output in  South America , Oil
World said.  Inventories of the oilseeds, including soybeans and
rapeseed, will drop to 72.4 million metric tons from 88.7
million tons a year earlier, the Hamburg-based researcher said
in a report today. Output will fall 2.9 percent to 439.6 million
tons as use of the oilseeds for cooking, fuel and  animal feed 
rises 3.1 percent, according to the report.  “Despite some demand rationing, there will still be a
substantial decline in world oilseed stocks this season,” Oil
World said. “The sharp decline of world stocks at the end of
this season is raising the dependence on increased oilseed
plantings and favorable weather in the Northern Hemisphere, as
well as on rebounding oilseed production not only in the U.S.,
but also in other countries in the summer and autumn.”  Soybeans have gained 15 percent this year on the Chicago
Board of Trade and rapeseed, or canola, has climbed 16 percent
on ICE Futures Canada in Winnipeg.  Palm oil  has advanced 9.8
percent on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange.  Dry weather in  Brazil , expected by the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  to be the biggest global soybean exporter, has cut
production of the oilseed, Oil World said. Growers in the U.S.
may shun soybeans this year and instead sow corn as favorable
weather promotes seeding of the grain, according to the report.  Competing With Corn  “Soybeans are fighting for acreage in the U.S.,” Oil
World said. “Weather conditions have become favorable in the
U.S. Midwest and Delta. At the moment there is concern that an
early start of corn plantings in the U.S. could result in an
insufficient expansion of the soybean area this spring.”  World production of rapeseed and canola, a lower-acid
version of the oilseed, may decline 1.8 percent to 59.6 million
tons on smaller harvests in the European Union,  India  and  China ,
according to the report.  Sunflower-seed output may rise 16 percent from last season
to a record 38.9 million tons, Oil World said. Cotton-seed
production may gain 10 percent to a record 47.2 million tons as
groundnut output falls by 200,000 tons, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 