-- Home Prices in U.S. Cities Fell at Slower Pace in January
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-03-27T13:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/home-prices-in-u-s-cities-decreased-at-slower-pace-in-january.html
Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities
dropped at a slower pace in January, pointing to stabilization
in the real estate market.  The S&P/Case-Shiller  index (SPX)  of property values in 20 cities
fell 3.8 percent from a year earlier, matching the median
 forecast  of 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, after
decreasing 4.1 percent in December, a report from the group
showed today in New York. Prices were little changed in January
from the prior month, the best performance since July.  Property values are steadying as a strengthening labor
market underpins housing demand, which may allow the industry
that precipitated the recession to contribute to growth this
year. Nonetheless, the recovery in sales may be restrained by
foreclosures that are putting more properties onto the market.  “We are starting to see a slightly less-negative
picture,” said Sean Incremona, a senior economist at 4Cast Inc.
in  New York , who correctly projected the decline. “We have seen
some slight progress from very depressed levels, but there’s
still a long, long way to go.”  Stocks were little changed. The Standard & Poor 500 Index
rose 0.1 percent to 1,417.66 at 9:42 a.m. in New York, after
yesterday reaching the highest level since 2008.  Home prices adjusted for seasonal variations were little
changed in January from the prior month, following a decrease of
0.5 percent in December. Unadjusted prices fell 0.8 percent from
the prior month.  Survey Results  Economists’ estimates for the year-over-year change in the
home price index for December ranged from declines of 4.5
percent to 3.3 percent, according to the survey. The Case-
Shiller index is based on a three-month average, which means the
January data were influenced by transactions in November and
December.  The December reading was previously reported as a year-
over-year drop of 4 percent.  The year-over-year gauge, begun in 2001, provides better
indications of trends in prices, the group has said. The panel
includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who
created the index.  Sixteen of the 20 cities in the index showed a year-over-
year decline, led by a 15 percent drop in Atlanta.  Detroit 
showed the biggest increase, with prices rising 1.7 percent in
January. There were no data available for  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina , due to delays in reporting, according to the release.  Eight cities made new post-slump lows, the report said,
including Atlanta,  Chicago ,  Cleveland ,  Las Vegas , New York,
 Portland ,  Seattle  and Tampa.  Confidence Improving  Recent reports indicate builder confidence is improving
even as sales stabilize. The National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo  sentiment  index in March held at the
highest level since June 2007 as the sales outlook climbed for a
sixth straight month.  Sales of previously owned houses held in February near an
almost two-year high, the real-estate agents’ group reported
last week. Purchases dropped 0.9 percent to a 4.59 million
annual rate from a revised 4.63 million pace in January that was
faster than previously estimated and the highest since May 2010.  Even with the decline last month, January and February
sales of existing homes marked the strongest start to a year
since 2007.  The number of Americans signing contracts to buy previously
owned homes fell 0.5 percent in February to 96.5 after a 2
percent increase the prior month, the National Association of
Realtors said yesterday in  Washington . January’s reading of 97
was the highest since April 2010.  Bernanke’s View  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke yesterday said
that while he’s encouraged by the decline in unemployment, the
central bank still needs to keep  interest rates  low to make
further progress.  Recent “better news” on the economy has also included a
“slight bit of encouraging news here and there in the housing
market” and strength in manufacturing, Bernanke said in
response to audience questions following a speech in Arlington,
Virginia.  Home foreclosures remain a concern for builders. Filings
fell 8 percent in February, the smallest year-over-year decrease
since October 2010, as lenders began working through a backlog
of seized properties, RealtyTrac Inc. said this month.  More Foreclosures  “February’s numbers point to a gradually rising
foreclosure tide,”  Brandon Moore , RealtyTrac’s chief executive
officer, said in a statement. “That should result in more
states posting annual increases in the coming months.”  Delinquencies are hurting sellers of both new and existing
homes.  KB Home (KBH) , the Los Angeles-based homebuilder that targets
first-time buyers, fell the most in almost nine months after it
reported a decline in orders and government data showed new-home
sales dropped in February.  “We are seeing signs that the overall housing market is
stabilizing and beginning to recover,”  Jeffrey Mezger ,
president and chief executive officer of KB Home, said in a
March 23 statement. “The pace of the recovery is uneven,
however. We expect that the housing market in general will
gradually strengthen as the economy continues to advance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  