-- Home Prices in 20 U.S. Cities Likely Fell at Slower Rate
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-03-27T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/home-prices-in-20-u-s-cities-probably-fell-at-a-slower-rate.html
Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities
probably fell at a slower pace in the year to January, another
sign of stabilization in the residential real estate market,
economists said before a report today.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
dropped 3.8 percent from January 2011, the smallest decline in
three months, after decreasing 4 percent in the previous 12
months, according to the median  forecast  of 32 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Consumer confidence  in March fell as
gas prices climbed, another report may show.  Property values are steadying as an improving job market
helps underpin home sales, allowing the industry that
precipitated the last recession to contribute to growth this
year. Nonetheless, the recovery in housing may be restrained by
foreclosures that are putting more properties onto the market.  “We’re seeing some signs of stabilization in the housing
market,” said  Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist at IHS Global
Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts . “Better employment is one
of the things that is absolutely essential for housing activity
to improve. We’re starting to see that.”  The S&P/Case-Shiller index, based on a three-month average,
is due at 9 a.m. New York time. Survey estimates ranged from
declines of 3.3 percent to 4.5 percent.  Home prices, after adjusting for seasonal variations, fell
0.3 percent in January from the prior month, according to the
Bloomberg survey median. That would be the smallest decline in
six months.  Better Gauge  The year-over-year gauges provide better indications of
trends in prices, the group has said. The panel includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who created the index.  Employment growth and rising incomes have made Americans
more optimistic, which may spur demand and help stabilize
prices. In February, the  unemployment rate  held at a three-year
low of 8.3 percent, while payroll gains capped the best six-
month run since 2006, according to Labor Department figures.  Builders have become more upbeat about the housing market.
The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment
index in March held at the highest level since June 2007 as the
sales outlook climbed for a sixth straight month.  Builder shares have improved as the market stabilized. The
 Standard & Poor’s  Supercomposite Homebuilder Index of 12
builders including Ryland Group Inc. and Lennar Corp. has
climbed 24 percent since the end of last year, compared with a
13 percent increase for the broader  S&P 500 Index .  Bernanke’s View  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke yesterday said that while he’s
encouraged by the decline in unemployment, the central bank
still needs to keep  interest rates  low to make further progress.  Recent “better news” on the economy has also included a
“slight bit of encouraging news here and there in the housing
market” and strength in manufacturing, Bernanke said in
response to audience questions following a speech in Arlington,
Virginia.  Still, higher gas prices are weighing on household
sentiment. The New York-based Conference Board’s consumer
confidence gauge, due at 10 a.m., probably fell to 70.1 this
month from a one-year high of 70.8 in February, the Bloomberg
survey median shows.  The  price  of a gallon of regular unleaded gas was $3.90 on
March 25, up 62 cents since the end of last year, according to
AAA, the nation’s largest automobile association. Paying more at
the pump may limit  consumer spending  on other items.  Companies such as  Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI) , operator of the
Red Lobster,  Olive Garden  and LongHorn Steakhouse chains, say
they’re already seeing cutbacks.  “Consumer sentiment today is mixed with decent job news,
but that’s offset certainly by a spike up in gas and food
prices,” Clarence Otis, chairman and chief executive officer of
the  Orlando , Florida-based firm, said on a March 23 conference
call. “If you look at today’s environment across the industry,
it is somewhat weaker than it was during the holiday and
immediate post-holiday period.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  