-- Hon Hai Posts Record Profit on IPhone Sales, Declining Costs
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-03-27T12:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/hon-hai-posts-record-profit-on-iphone-sales-declining-costs.html
Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , the
world’s largest contract manufacturer of electronics, posted
record quarterly profit as sales of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhones and
iPads climbed and costs for relocating factories dropped.  Fourth-quarter  net income  climbed 64 percent to NT$35
billion ($1.18 billion) from NT$21.4 billion a year earlier,
according to an e-mailed statement from the Taipei-based company
today. Profit beat each of the nine analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg, and the average NT$26.6 billion.  Hon Hai, flagship of the Foxconn Technology Group,
benefited from better-than-expected sales of Apple’s handheld
devices while costs for relocating manufacturing to inland China
decline as construction is completed. A new iPad, rising sales
of iPhones and a rebound in the computer market could be offset
by higher costs this year as the  company  continues to boost
wages amid labor inspections.  “Apple was a strength with the release of the new iPhone
while relocation expenses have already peaked and are now
declining,” said Hong Kong-based Gokul Hariharan of JPMorgan
Chase & Co., who rates Hon Hai overweight and is the second-best
ranked of 24 analysts tracked by Bloomberg. “The turnaround at
unit Foxconn International Holdings also helped boost their
bottom line.”  Record Sales  Consolidated sales climbed 13 percent to a record NT$1.07
trillion for the quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Full-year consolidated sales rose 15 percent to
NT$3.45 trillion, and net income grew 5.8 percent to NT$81.6
billion, Hon Hai said in an exchange filing today.  Founder Terry Gou cut his annual sales-growth forecast in
September 2010 to 15 percent from a 30 percent target that had
been in place for more than a decade as Hon Hai’s size
burgeoned. Revenue growth will be no less than 15 percent this
year, driven by  China  and  Brazil , he said Dec. 1.  Apple, which outsources its iPad assembly, most of its
iPhones and some of its MacBooks to Foxconn, posted record
revenue for the quarter ended Dec. 31 with 15.4 million iPads
sold, exceeding analyst estimates for 13.5 million units.  Foxconn International Holdings Ltd. (2038) , the Hong Kong-listed
maker of phones for  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  that’s majority owned by Hon Hai,
last week reported 2011 profit of $72.8 million, almost triple
the $24.5 million average of analyst estimates, after posting a
loss of $218.3 million a year earlier.  Margin Improvement  Slowing labor supply and increased government incentives
prompted Gou to begin expansion in central China, away from Hon
Hai’s main production base on the east coast and closer to its
workforce, a move that raised costs and cut  profit margins .  “We are positive on Hon Hai’s progress in margin
improvement,”  Kirk Yang , who rates the stock overweight at
Barclays Bank Plc in  Hong Kong , wrote in a March 7 report.
“Relocation to inland China should be gradually completed this
year, which means no more duplication of manpower and
facilities.”  Improved efficiency in making iPads and iPhones, incentives
and tax credits from the Chinese government and easier access to
labor inland will also help boost Hon Hai’s profits this year,
Yang wrote.  Foxconn raised base wages by up to 25 percent in February,
the company said in a Feb. 17 statement, doubling the salary of
a junior worker in Shenzhen to 1,800 yuan ($285) a month from
900 yuan three years ago.  Foxconn’s factories were audited by the Fair Labor
Association last month after Apple joined the Washington-based
human rights group. The manufacturer has “tons of issues”
while dramatic improvements have been made, FLA Chief Executive
Officer Auret van Heerden said in an interview last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 