-- Money Markets Signal Fed Rise in 2013, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-03-27T18:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/money-markets-signal-fed-rise-in-2013-credit-suisse-says.html
Money-market derivatives signal
traders expect the  Federal Reserve  will most likely lift its
 target rate  for overnight loans between banks in the second
quarter of 2013, according to Credit Suisse Group AG analysis.  The chance the Fed will begin raising borrowing costs as
early as 2012 is 12 percent, while an initial increase in 2013
or 2014 each carries a 24 percent probability, Credit Suisse
analysis using a  gamma probability  distribution of forward
overnight index swap rates shows.  Treasury yields  surged and money-market rates rose after
Federal Open Market Committee members raised their assessment of
the  U.S. economy  on March 13 while reiterating that borrowing
costs would probably stay low through at least late 2014. The
policy statement led money-market derivative traders to bring
forward the time when they predict the Fed will first lift its
target of zero to 0.25 percent.  “If you take the pricing in the futures market at face
value, it shows a gradual increase in the fed funds rate
starting in 2013,”  Carl Lantz , head of interest-rate strategy
at Credit Suisse Securities USA LLC in New York, said in a
telephone interview today. “However, the futures only show an
average of many possible paths for fed funds. Our model and the
use of the gamma distribution allow us to tease out the implied
path that is most likely.”  The implied speed of increases is 0.29 percentage point per
quarter, with the Fed’s target rate rising to 3.86 percent by
the end of the tightening cycle, according to Credit Suisse’s
analysis using the statistical method, which is commonly applied
to predict when an event will happen.  Less Liquid  The more conventional methods of observing Fed rate
expectations, which require the binary choice of either an
increase or no increase, using overnight index swap rates or
federal funds futures, is flawed at present in part because the
longer contracts are less liquid, according to a note published
March 23 by Lantz and Eric Van Nostrand, a Credit Suisse
interest-rate strategist. The use of options on fed funds
futures, which provides the ability for a range of
probabilities, is also lacking for the same reason.  “Official Fed policy suggests a long pause followed by a
tightening cycle,” Lantz and Van Nostrand wrote. The
conventional interpretation of “market pricing seems to expect
the first hike on a relatively shorter timeline followed by an
unusually gradual tightening cycle,” they wrote.  Overnight index swap rates are over-the-counter derivatives
in which one party agrees to pay a fixed rate in exchange for
the average of a floating central-bank rate over the life of the
swap. For U.S. dollar OIS, the floating rate is the daily
 effective federal funds  rate, which was 0.14 percent yesterday.  Interest-Rate Futures  Fed funds futures, which were first offered on the Chicago
Board of Trade in October 1988, show what traders bet the fed
funds effective rate will average over the life of the contract.
The implied yield on the November 2013 contract is 0.35 percent.
That’s up from an implied rate on the contract of 0.19 percent
two months ago.  The  fed funds effective rate  is a volume-weighted average
on trades by major brokers published by the New York Fed with a
one-day lag.  The Credit Suisse model also uses forwards on the gap
between the London interbank offered rate and OIS, known as the
Libor-OIS spread, derived in part from the Chicago-based CME
Group exchange’s Eurodollar futures contracts. These futures are
based on expectations for three-month dollar Libor, fixed daily
by the British Bankers’ Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  