-- Hong Kong’s Leung Defies Public With Visit, Anson Chan Says
-- B y   S u s a n   L i   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-03-27T05:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/hong-kong-s-leung-defies-public-with-visit-anson-chan-says-1-.html
Hong Kong  chief executive-elect
Leung Chun-ying’s visit to the Beijing Liaison Office yesterday
raised concerns over the role China would play in the city’s
next administration, former chief secretary Anson Chan said.  The visit “seems to be an act of defiance,” and showed a
lack of consideration to the public, Chan said today in a
Bloomberg Television interview. Leung was picked as the city’s
next leader on March 25 by a 1,193-member committee that
included tycoons, lawmakers and academics.  Leung is the last chief executive to be chosen by a narrow
group, with China having promised to introduce universal
suffrage by 2017. Some members of the election committee were
told by the Beijing Liaison Office to vote for Leung, according
to local newspapers, which would be against a  China  pledge to
let Hong Kong govern itself.  “Maybe it’s a taste of things to come,” said Chan, who
served Hong Kong’s last British governor  Chris Patten . “I think
he’s determined to govern according to his own style. And the
concern is that behind him, the central government, through the
Liaison Office, will be ruling Hong Kong.”  Prior to the vote, Leung, 57, was dogged by claims that he
is a secret member of the Chinese Communist Party.  Martin Lee ,
the co-founder of Hong Kong’s  Democratic Party , wrote an article
published in Next Magazine this month saying he believed Leung
has been an underground party member, an allegation that Leung
denied. The Basic Law, Hong Kong’s de-facto constitution, bans
the city’s leader from having any party affiliations.  One Country, Two Systems  Hong Kong residents enjoy civil liberties including a free
press and freedom of assembly not available in mainland China
under the “one country, two systems” formula that returned
Hong Kong to China in 1997.  The election campaign divided Hong Kong’s elites, with
Leung garnering 61 percent of the votes, compared with the more
than 80 percent obtained by incumbent  Donald Tsang . Tang had
also accused Leung of advocating the use of anti-riot police on
protesters in 2003, an allegation that Leung denied.  Lawmaker Emily Lau yesterday said Leung has a “very, very
tough task ahead” in uniting the city and obtaining support.
Chan said Leung may seek to rule with “an iron fist.”  Leung, the son of a policeman, founded his own surveying
company in 1993. He became Asia chairman and a director for
London-based DTZ Holdings Ltd. in 2006 following a merger
between the two companies. He has also served as a government
adviser.  Leung’s Team  “It’s a fact that CY is our next chief executive,” Chan
said today. “We should give him a chance. In the next few
weeks, we’ll see what kind of team he puts together, which will
give us an indication on how he will rule. I don’t at this stage
want to protest.”  Leung may appoint Carrie Lam, the current secretary for
development, as his next chief secretary, the Oriental Daily
News reported today, citing unidentified people.  “Carrie Lam is highly respected,” said Chan. “If he can
manage to persuade Carrie to stay with his team, that’s a very,
very positive signal.”  Leung said today he plans to focus on economic, livelihood
and housing issues, and that the implementation of Article 23,
an anti-subversion law, isn’t on his working agenda, according
to Hong Kong Commercial Radio.  “I think he’s sufficiently aware that this whole subject
is extremely sensitive and controversial,” said Chan. “He has
already said that he will consult before he decides how to
proceed.”  Former Chief Executive Tung Chee-hwa resigned after half a
million people protested in 2003 against the proposed anti-
subversion law, which they feared would curtail personal
freedoms.  Other than the appointments for his team, Leung needs to
“restore trust” with civil servants and reconcile the
different sectors of society, Chan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Li in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  