-- Ontario Freezes Wages, Scraps Tax Cuts to Balance Budget by 2017
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2012-03-27T20:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/ontario-freezes-wages-scraps-tax-cuts-to-balance-budget-by-2017.html
Ontario plans to freeze public-
sector wages and scrap corporate tax cuts to balance its budget
by 2017-18 as it tries to close  Canada ’s biggest provincial
shortfall.  The deficit in Canada’s most-populous province will fall to
C$15.2 billion ($15.2 billion) in the fiscal year that begins
April 1, down from C$15.3 billion in the current year, according
to  the budget  released in Toronto today. Absent the measures,
the gap would have ballooned to a record C$25 billion within
three years.  “Ontario needs to take strong action to balance the budget
and build a better future,” Finance Minister Dwight Duncan said
in the text of a  speech  presenting the 354-page report. “It
meets the needs of markets and meets the needs of Ontarians.”  Liberal Premier Dalton McGuinty is trying to reduce the
deficit to avoid a credit rating downgrade while winning support
for his budget from opposition lawmakers. The  New Democratic
Party  said it would review the budget before making a decision,
while the Progressive Conservatives plan to vote against it.  The government said it would pare outlays on teachers’
salaries, public servants and an electricity-rate subsidy to cut
spending by C$17.7 billion over three years. It will also freeze
the corporate income tax rate at 11.5 percent until the budget
is balanced. Ontario had planned to cut the rate to 10 percent
by the middle of next year, which would have lowered revenue by
C$1.5 billion over three years.  Credit Ratings  The widening budget gap and rising debt load threaten the
credit ratings of Canada’s biggest provincial economy at a time
when it’s relying on the  bond market  to extend debt maturities.
The province faces a rating downgrade by Moody’s Investors
Service if it doesn’t pare its debt and deficit. The burden of
debt is expected to peak at a record 42 percent of gross
domestic product by 2015, the budget shows. The ratio was 27
percent of GDP in 2007-08.  Ontario’s economy is forecast to grow 1.7 percent this year
and 2.2 percent in 2013. Private-sector economists expect growth
of 1.9 percent for 2012, according to the budget. The 2011-12
deficit is narrower than the C$16 billion  forecast  in November.  Even as Ontario’s deficit narrows, the government will need
to increase borrowing to reflect higher bond maturities in the
next few years. Borrowing will rise to C$35.6 billion next
fiscal year, from C$34.9 billion in 2011-12. Borrowing needs
rise to C$39.6 billion in 2013-14.  Ontario bonds have lost 1.9 percent this year compared with
a decline of 2.4 percent for provincial bonds in a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index. Moody’s cut its outlook on the
province to negative in December. Moody’s rates Ontario Aa1, its
second-highest level, two notches higher than  Standard & Poor’s .  Wage Freeze  As part of public-sector wide salary caps, the province
will propose cutting educators’ salaries for two years and wages
for  Members of Provincial Parliament  for an additional two
years. The budget also assumes no wage increases in upcoming
collective bargaining with 65,000 government employees. Wages
and payments would also be capped for doctors and executives at
hospitals, universities and school boards.  Senior couples earning more than C$160,000 would pay more
for  prescription drugs  under the proposed budget. Ontario will
also close “underutilized” jails in Chatham and Brantford and
the Toronto West Detention Centre.  The province plans to pool pension fund managers to reduce
costs, while forcing public-sector plans to lower future
benefits to cover any funding deficits. The government will also
propose that members of university pension funds match
contributions made by their employers within five years.  “The inescapable fact is that over half of the
government’s costs go to wages, benefits and pensions,”
according to the budget. “We will need to address the issue of
compensation.”  Property Taxes  Businesses will lose a planned cut on the portion of the
property tax levy that funds education. The Business Education
Tax will be held at an average of 1.33 percent, down from 1.85
percent in 2007. The tax freeze will save the government C$300
million a year by 2014-15.  The province forecast a 2.7 percent revenue increase, or
almost C$3 billion, in the next fiscal year. Revenue will rise
to C$112.2 billion in 2012-13, from C$109.3 billion this year.
Revenue is expected to grow at an annual rate of 3.5 percent
over the next three years.  Spending will rise 1.5 percent over the same period, with
projected expenses of C$126.4 billion in the next fiscal year.
The government aims to limit spending increases to 0.9 percent
each year by 2017.  Drummond Report  Other revenue generators include the sale of the head
office of the province’s alcohol monopoly, known as the Liquor
Control Board of Ontario, which will generate C$200 million in
profit.  The government plans to save C$3.2 billion in borrowing
by scrapping several infrastructure projects, including
expansions at hospitals such as the  Sunnybrook  Health Sciences
Centre in Toronto.  The province commissioned an independent report by former
Toronto-Dominion Bank Chief Economist Don Drummond on saving
measures that could be included in the province’s 2012 budget.  The Drummond report recommended Ontario overhaul its public
health-care system and scrap the Ontario Clean Energy Benefit,
which gives Ontarians a 10 percent rebate on electricity bills
at a cost of C$1.06 billion this fiscal year.  Instead, the government will retain the benefit except for
users -- mostly businesses -- consuming 3,000 kilowatt-hours per
month. The change will save on average C$125 million a year.  McGuinty won re-election for a third term Oct. 6 with a
minority government, which may trim policy options. His Liberal
party must rely on the help of at least two opposition
Progressive Conservatives or  New Democrats  to pass the budget or
face an election.  PC Rejects  “This budget stifles job creation,” said Conservative
Leader Tim Hudak. “The PC party cannot support this budget.”  New Democratic Party Leader Andrea Horwath said she’ll be
“talking to families” before making a decision.  “We’re committed to making this minority government work
as long as it provides results for people,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scanlan  at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 