-- Hoodies Don’t Kill Becomes Protest After Shooting
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-03-29T18:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/hoodies-don-t-kill-becomes-protest-slogan-after-martin-shooting.html
(Corrects name of city manager in penultimate paragraph in
story originally published March 27.)  Protests calling for further
investigation into the shooting of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin a
month ago have used a familiar garment as their rallying point:
the hoodie.  National Basketball Association star LeBron James and  his
teammates  on the  Miami Heat  as well as  rap  artist Sean Combs are
among celebrities who’ve joined a social media  campaign  rallying
“A Million Hoodies for Trayvon Martin.” More than 300,000
people have posted pictures of themselves in hooded sweatshirts
to Twitter, Instagram and Facebook, according to organizers.
Slogans on the photos include “We are all Trayvon” and
“Hoodies Don’t Kill, People with Guns Do.”  Martin, unarmed, black and wearing a hooded sweatshirt, was
shot Feb. 26 in Sanford,  Florida , by George Zimmerman, 28, a
Neighborhood Watch member who has claimed self-defense and
hasn’t been arrested. Protesters have seized on Zimmerman’s call
with a 911 operator, in which he describes Martin’s hoodie and
dubs him “real suspicious,” as racial profiling.  Viewing a person as dangerous because they’re in a hooded
sweatshirt is akin to being nervous about tinted windshields or
dark sunglasses because they make it difficult to identify a
person, said Lorraine Howes, a professor emerita at  Rhode Island 
School of Design in Providence, Rhode Island, where she teaches
a course on the history of dress.  “You could put a sinister aspect on anything that
conceals,” Howes said. “It’s not necessarily suspicious, it
all depends on the aspect that has been put on it.”  Medieval Roots  Hoodies trace their roots back to monk robes in Medieval
Europe, according to fashion historians, and were introduced in
the U.S. in the 1930s by  Hanesbrands Inc. (HBI) ’s Champion brand for
cold-weather work. The garment has become a modern staple of
casual apparel, with most major brands putting their own spin on
the hoodie, much as they have with denim or graphic T-shirts.
While  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   offers  a women’s Hanes fleece zip-up
hoodie for $13 online, Juicy Couture Inc.  sells  a Malibu
cashmere hoodie for $358 on its website.  “It’s now one of the more commonplace garments in the
wardrobe of the world,” said Daniel James Cole, an adjunct
assistant professor of fashion history at the Fashion Institute
of Technology in New York. “It’s also typically used for
branding -- think of the many hoodies that have the name of the
designer or company across the top. Just like jeans, there is a
hierarchy expressed in how expensive the garment is.”  Hooded sweatshirts gained popularity within hip-hop culture
in the 1980s and 1990s; on his “Ready to Die” album in 1994
the late rapper Notorious B.I.G. wrote: “It don’t make sense,
goin’ to heaven wit the goodie-goodies/Dressed in white, I like
black Tims and black hoodies.”  High-End Collections  The garment’s growing status prompted designers including
 Tommy Hilfiger  to add hoodies to their high-end collections,
reaching a larger audience, according to Howes.  “I would date the huge surge to the time that Tommy
Hilfiger became popular with both young white youths and black
youths,” she said. “The thing that happened with Tommy
Hilfiger is that instead of hip-hop clothing being very much in
one segment of the population, it became across the culture.”  Hoodies lost that urban association as they transitioned
“into more fashionable circumstances and less marginalized
ones,” Cole said, as companies such as  Gap Inc. (GPS) , the biggest
U.S. apparel chain, started selling the garments.  Mark Zuckerberg , the 27-year-old founder of Facebook Inc., frequently
sports a trademark outfit of a hoodie and jeans.  Hoodies have been an “important” part of  Aeropostale
Inc. (ARO) ’s core products for more than 10 years, making up “a
pretty large piece of the business overall,” said Kenneth Ohashi, a spokesman. Teens gravitate toward a garment they can
layer with other clothes and easily take on and off, he said.  Buffett Hoodies  In late spring of 2005, Russell Corp., the athletic
apparel-maker owned by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ,
said that it faced “an unprecedented shift in demand for the
hooded sweatshirt in place of the traditional crew neck
sweatshirts,” according to a conference call later that year.  The company was unable to keep up with demand, even after
retraining employees to make the more complex garments, because
“business just exploded,” Robert Koney, the company’s chief
financial officer at the time, said on the call.  Last week, Geraldo Rivera, a Fox News commentator, sparked
an outcry after saying Martin’s hoodie led to his death. On
March 22, Rivera  posted  to his Twitter account: “Trayvon killed
by a jerk w a gun but black & Latino parents have to drill into
kids heads: a hoodie is like a sign: shoot or stop & frisk me.”  Rivera, who has about 21,000 followers, subsequently wrote
that his own son disagreed with his position and today
apologized for any hurt he may have caused Martin’s parents.  Million Photos  The Million Hoodies campaign is seeking to reach 1 million
photos of people in hoodies to “show the world we are all
Trayvon,” according to its Facebook page, which has attracted
6,187 “likes.” Organizers are asking Twitter, Instagram and
Facebook users to post photos of themselves in the sweatshirts
with the hashtag “millionhoodies.” The group is fighting for
Zimmerman’s arrest.  Zimmerman, who hasn’t spoken publicly and is in hiding
because of death threats, told Sanford police that he shot
Martin after being punched in the nose and having his head
slammed into the sidewalk, said City Manager Norton Bonaparte
Jr. The account from Zimmerman, whose mother is Hispanic and
father is white, differs from that of Martin’s family, which
says the teen was followed and attacked.  Local officials said the state’s “stand your ground” law,
which relieves a citizen of responsibility to retreat when he
feels threatened in a public place, and which gives him the
right to “meet force with force,” prevented them from making
an arrest in the case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  