-- Total Plunges on Third Day of North Sea Gas Leak: Paris Mover
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-03-27T16:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/total-plunges-on-third-day-of-north-sea-gas-leak-paris-mover.html
Total SA (FP)  slumped the most in more
than three years as  Europe ’s third-largest oil company battles
to contain a gas leak in the U.K. North Sea.  Total shares slid 6 percent to 38.56 euros in Paris, the
steepest decline since December 2008.  “The situation is worrying,” Alexandre Andlauer, an
analyst at Alphavalue SAS, said by telephone. “There is
precedent after what happened with BP.”  Total evacuated the Elgin platform and production was
halted after a “well control problem” caused a leak on March
25. The French producer, the most heavily weighted stock on the
benchmark CAC 40 index, has flown in outside experts and
drilling a relief well to stem the leak could take six months.  “From initial reports, the situation doesn’t seem as
worrying as BP’s Macondo because Elgin isn’t as deep,” Andlauer
said. “If a relief well is what is needed, six months is a long
time to wait. The best thing is to avoid the stock.”  BP was the operator of the doomed Macondo well whose
blowout destroyed the Deepwater Horizon rig and killed 11
workers in April 2010.  As well as gas, about 23 metric tons of condensate, a type
of light oil, has been released from the leak above the water on
the platform,  Brian O’Neill , a Total spokesman in Aberdeen, said
today by telephone.  Total said the well causing the leak remained plugged and
gas was coming from a smaller reservoir nearer to the surface.
The leak may exhaust itself naturally, said David Hainsworth, a
health, safety and environment manager for the company.  “At this stage, the leak has not been located and a
timeframe to stop it remains unclear,” Bernstein Research
analysts including  Oswald Clint  wrote in a note. “A best case
is that the leak stops naturally within a number of days or
weeks. A worst case is that Total is forced to drill a relief
well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Farey in London at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  