-- Total Fights Leak as North Sea Rigs Evacuated on Blast Risk
-- B y   B e n   F a r e y
-- 2012-03-27T16:29:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/total-fights-leak-as-north-sea-rigs-evacuated-on-blast-risk-1-.html
Total SA (FP) ’s Elgin platform leaked
gas for a third day in the U.K. North Sea as neighboring rigs
were evacuated to guard against the risk of an explosion.  Total dropped the most since 2008 after  France ’s largest
oil producer said an emergency well may be needed to stem the
leak, an operation that would take at least six months.  Royal
Dutch Shell (RDSA)  Plc shut down the neighboring  Shearwater  field
after a two-mile exclusion zone was declared.  “A best case is that the leak stops naturally within a
number of days,” Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said in a note to
clients. “The worst case is that Total is forced to drill a
relief well.”  Total has flown in Wild Well Control Inc. to help battle
the leak and stopped work at a neighboring field to free up a
rig to drill a relief well. The Elgin-Franklin fields, about 140
miles (225 kilometers) east of Aberdeen in  Scotland , supply
about 15 percent of the Forties blend, one of the crudes used to
price the Brent benchmark for more than half the world’s oil.  The platform was evacuated after a blow-out on March 25
during an operation to abandon a well, David Hainsworth, a
health and safety manager for Total, said today by phone from
Aberdeen. Nobody was injured in the incident.  A vapor cloud was seen rising above the rig today and about
23 tons of condensate, a light crude oil, has been released,
Hainsworth said. The well causing the leak remained plugged and
gas was coming from a smaller reservoir nearer the surface, he
said, adding the leak may exhaust itself naturally.  High Pressure  “It’s unprecedented” in the North Sea, Jake Molloy,
regional organizer for RMT union, said in a phone interview from
Aberdeen. “High pressure gas flowing from a well with no means
of preventing it. We are in the realm of the unknown, comparable
to the Deepwater Horizon.”  BP Plc (BP/)  drilled a relief well to permanently plug the
Macondo well that leaked oil into the  Gulf of Mexico  for 87 days
in 2010 after blowout on the Deepwater Horizon rig killed 11
workers. The worst accident in U.K. waters was on the Piper
Alpha platform in 1988 that killed 167.  Total fell 2.45 euros, or 6 percent, to close at 38.56
euros, the biggest one-day drop since December 2008.  It’s a “serious incident,” Tom Whittles, an Edinburgh-
based spokesman for the Scottish government, said by phone.
Still, it won’t have a “strong environmental impact on the
area” as the condensate will probably evaporate, he said.  Growing Sheen  Condensate caused a sheen of 2 miles by 0.75 miles
yesterday that has grown since then, Total spokesman  Brian O’Neill  said. There is an exclusion zone in place of 2 miles for
shipping and 3 miles for aircraft.  The Elgin-Franklin fields produced a daily average of
61,386 barrels of condensate in November, according to the most
recent government data. That’s about 15 percent of all Forties
shipments that month, loading data show. Shareholders in both
fields include  Eni SpA (ENI) ,  BG Group Plc (BG/) ,  EON AG (EOAN) , Exxon Mobil Corp.,
 Chevron Corp (CVX) , Dyas AS and Summit Petroleum Ltd.  “The Forties crude-oil stream should be affected by the
problems that Total currently has,”  Olivier Jakob , managing
director of Zug, Switzerland-based Petromatrix GmbH, said today
in an e-mailed report.  Elgin produces 5.5 million cubic meters of gas a day and
Franklin 7.8 million cubic meters, according to Total.  Kinneil Terminal  Condensate from the fields is exported through the Forties
pipeline to Scotland’s Kinneil terminal. Gas is pumped via BP
Plc’s Unity Riser into the Bacton Seal terminal in eastern
 England , operated by Shell, according to Total’s website.  Forties (EUCSFORT)  is one of four  North Sea  oil grades that make up
the  Dated Brent (EUCRBRDT)  benchmark, which is used to price crude from the
 Middle East , Africa and  Russia . The other blends are Ekofisk,
Brent and Oseberg.  Summer gas at the U.K.’s National Balancing Point,
Britain’s gas-trading hub, rose 0.8 percent to 60 pence a therm,
according to broker data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
highest in a week and equal to $9.59 a million British thermal
units. A therm is 100,000 Btu.  The Elgin deposit, started in 2001, has a temperature of
about 200 degrees Celsius (392 degrees Fahrenheit), compared
with about 90 degrees at other North Sea deposits. Pressure is
almost four times that at similar fields, according to Total.  A remotely-operated submarine will be used at the site,
O’Neill said. No divers have yet been deployed and it’s not
clear when the submarine will arrive at Elgin.  Shell carried out a “partial evacuation” of staff from
its Shearwater oil and gas field as precaution, Ross Whittam, a
Shell spokesman, said today by telephone from  London . Shearwater
is about 4 miles (6.4 kilometers) from Elgin. Output from the
Scoter and Starling fields, which passes through the Shearwater
platform, hasn’t been affected, Whittam said.  Drilling operations at the Noble Hans Duel drilling rig
have also been suspended as a precaution, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Farey in London at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  