-- House Cybersecurity Bill Proposes Information Swaps
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-03-27T17:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/house-cybersecurity-bill-proposes-information-swaps.html
The U.S. government and companies
operating vital computer networks would be encouraged to share
information about cybersecurity threats under a bill introduced
today by  House Republicans .  Companies including  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ,  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA)  and Consolidated Edison Inc. would be offered incentives,
such as protection from lawsuits, in exchange for sharing cyber
threat information with the government, Representative Mary Bono Mack, a California Republican, said in a statement.  “Under our legislation, our nation’s best and brightest
minds will finally be freed to work hand-in-hand to share
information, develop safety protocols and put into place
critical early-warning systems,” Bono Mack said.  The bill is almost identical to legislation introduced
March 1 by Senate Republicans led by  John McCain  of Arizona,  Ken
Johnson , a Bono Mack spokesman, said in an e-mail. It serves as
a marker in the U.S. House of Representatives as Congress
debates how to strengthen computer defenses at banks, power
grids and telecommunications companies.  Lawmakers and regulators are pushing for cybersecurity
legislation following assaults last year on companies including
New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S. bank by
assets, and Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the
world’s largest defense company.  Legal Protections  Bono Mack introduced her bill with Representative Marsha Blackburn, a Tennessee Republican.  “It puts the private sector in the driver’s seat, instead
of relying on overly prescriptive government mandates that
hamper growth and weaken response capabilities,” Blackburn said
in a statement. “Incentive-based security works better than
heavy-handed mandates.”  The measure would let companies share and receive threat
data with each other and the government through any federal
cybersecurity center, including the  National Security Agency .
The military’s  U.S. Cyber Command  is housed under the National
Security Agency.  The bill offers companies incentives to encourage
information sharing, such as protection from civil, criminal or
antitrust lawsuits. The measure would exempt shared data from
public disclosure and preempt state laws regulating information
sharing.  Companies contracted by the government for
telecommunications or cybersecurity services would be required
to report cyber attacks related to those services to agencies,
according to the bill. The requirement wouldn’t apply to
companies already under contract on the date the bill would be
enacted -- a change from McCain’s bill.  Other Provisions  The Bono Mack bill would direct the Commerce Department to
issue mandates to ensure agencies are protecting data and
computers. The mandates are intended to help ensure agencies are
complying with the 2002 Federal Information Security Management
Act.  The bill would set criminal penalties for hacking vital
 computer networks , including systems that support gas and oil
delivery, water supply, electrical power delivery and banking
operations. Convicted offenders could face as much as 20 years
in prison.  Democratic Alternative  Senate Democrats and President Barack Obama’s
administration support an alternative bill introduced Feb. 14
that would place new requirements on companies to protect vital
computer networks.  That measure, introduced by Senator  Joe Lieberman , a
Connecticut independent, would give the  Homeland Security
Department  the ability to identify essential systems. The agency
would set regulations for operators of critical networks to
improve security, and companies would have to prove their
networks are secure or face penalties.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, plans
to bring the bill to the Senate floor for debate in the coming
weeks, although no specific date has been set.  Lieberman’s bill is  S. 2105 . McCain’s bill is  S. 2151 . Bono
Mack’s bill is H.R. 4263.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  