-- How the U.S. Became Banker to the Post-War World (Part 3)
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n   a n d   J a m e s   K w a k
-- 2012-03-27T23:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/how-the-u-s-became-banker-to-the-post-war-world-part-3-.html
Both the international monetary
system and American fiscal policy began to change in the 1960s.
The system developed at the United Nations Monetary and
Financial Conference, held in Bretton Woods,  New Hampshire , in
July 1944, fixed exchange rates to a dollar backed by gold. It
worked successfully for years. But it couldn’t last forever.  By 1960, foreign dollar holdings exceeded U.S. gold
reserves. The country was like a 19th-century bank that had
issued more notes than it had gold coins in the vault. In that
year’s presidential election, both Vice President Richard M. Nixon and Senator  John F. Kennedy  took pains to emphasize the
importance of maintaining gold reserves, which were seen as a
crucial element of national strength. As President Kennedy later
said: “Britain has nuclear weapons, but the pound is weak, so
everyone pushes it around. Why are people so nice to  Spain 
today? Not because Spain has nuclear weapons but because of all
those lovely gold reserves.”  The gold drain, in which foreign central banks turned in
dollars for gold, had been a constraint on fiscal policy. Big
budget deficits, it was feared, would increase aggregate demand,
raising imports and sending dollars overseas, which would
increase gold outflows even more. But presidents must balance
many priorities, and Kennedy was no exception. If gold reserves
were important, the  Cold War  was more important. He chose to
increase military spending.  Deficit Spending  Sustaining economic growth was also a top priority, and
Kennedy’s administration was the first to wholeheartedly embrace
deficit spending as a tool for managing the economy. In the
1930s, British economist  John Maynard Keynes  originally made the
case for stimulating a slow economy by increasing  government
spending  or cutting taxes. Either would put money in people’s
hands, increase overall demand and boost economic activity.  Kennedy’s advisers were confident that Keynesian demand
management could be used to fine-tune the economy by increasing
deficits during slowdowns and reducing them during booms. For
the first time in American history, a president was arguing that
deficits could be a good thing, and needn’t be used only in a
military or economic emergency.  Kennedy’s successor, Lyndon B. Johnson, also found that
some things were more important than a balanced budget: Faced
with the choice between guns and butter, he chose both. Johnson
oversaw America’s expensive commitment to the  Vietnam War  while
also expanding domestic social programs to fight poverty.  Spending wasn’t the only reason for the gold drain. The
inflation that contributed to gold outflows was also good for
the government’s balance sheet. After World War II, the U.S.
government was a major debtor and, like any debtor, benefited
from inflation. Modest but persistent inflation combined with
regulation of  interest rates  meant that real (inflation-
adjusted) interest rates were always low and often negative.
Since creditors’ interest payments didn’t keep up with
inflation, part of the debt was inflated away.  Vietnam War spending helped produce budget deficits
throughout most of the late 1960s and also contributed to
inflationary pressures, both of which reduced foreign central
banks’ appetite for dollars. Those banks began to worry whether
they would always be able to cash in $35 for an ounce of gold,
prompting a wave of gold purchases in March 1968. Negotiations
to reset exchange rates, which would have slowed the dollar
outflow, had little impact. The U.S. could have protected its
gold reserves, but only at the cost of hurting the economy -- a
price its leaders didn’t want to pay.  Breaking Point  In effect, the U.S. was the banker to the world, and it
faced a bank run. The breaking point came on Aug. 11, 1971.
President Nixon took the advice of Treasury Secretary John Connally and closed the gold window, refusing to convert dollars
into gold and abandoning the cornerstone of the  Bretton Woods 
system. Framing the announcement as a New Economic Policy, Nixon
added some tax cuts, a reduction in the number of federal
employees, a 90-day wage-and-price freeze, and a temporary 10
percent surcharge on imports. The era of gold was finally over.  After Nixon closed the gold window, the dollar was devalued
against other currencies, but the new exchange rates could not
be maintained against another run on the dollar in 1973. The
world abandoned the fixed-exchange-rate system for a floating-
rate system in which the value of a currency is set by supply
and demand, and the dollar depreciated further, leading Time
magazine to quip, “Once upon a very recent time, only a banana
republic would devalue its money twice within 14 months.”  But countries still needed reserves in part to intervene in
foreign  currency markets , and there was no discernible shift
away from the dollar as a reserve currency. In 1977, it still
accounted for about 80 percent of total identified foreign-
exchange reserves, and dollars held abroad in official reserves
increased by $91.3 billion from 1975 through 1981.  The 1970s was a rocky time for the U.S., particularly as
inflation increased and the dollar weakened. But predictions
that the end of Bretton Woods would mean permanently higher
inflation weren’t borne out. After becoming chairman of the
 Federal Reserve  in 1979, Paul Volcker tightened monetary policy
and, at the cost of higher unemployment, managed to squeeze
inflation down.  The next major test for the U.S. came in the 1980s.  Ronald Reagan  won the 1980 presidential election promising to cut
taxes, strengthen national defense and balance the budget by
slashing other government spending. His first major initiative
was convincing Congress to cut income-tax rates across the
board, with the top rate falling from 70 percent to 50 percent.
The largest  tax cut  in history combined with a severe recession
in 1981-1982 reduced government revenue from 19.6 percent of
gross domestic product in 1981 to only 17.3 percent in 1984.  Reagan Deficits  At the same time, government spending climbed, thanks to
increases in the defense budget, producing what were then the
largest peacetime deficits in history. These deficits, combined
with increasing current-account deficits, made the U.S. -- both
the federal government and the private sector -- increasingly
reliant on borrowing from other countries.  Under the Bretton Woods system, this would have been a
serious problem. Borrowing from overseas depended on foreign
investors’ willingness to hold dollars (or dollar-based assets),
which required confidence in the value of the dollar. But the
more dollars those investors accumulated, the less faith they
had that the U.S. would be able to maintain the gold standard at
$35 per ounce, until the entire system collapsed.  After Bretton Woods, however, every country still needed
foreign currency reserves to facilitate international trade, and
the dollar remained the reserve currency of choice. Large budget
deficits in the 1980s helped push up U.S. interest rates, which
made the dollar more attractive to international investors.
Convertibility into gold was no longer an issue to worry about.  At the time, economists and others wondered how long large
budget deficits and current-account deficits could be sustained.
Heated rhetoric about deficits became a constant theme in
 Washington . In 1990 and 1993, Presidents George H. W. Bush and
 Bill Clinton  pushed through legislation that cut spending and
increased taxes. As budget deficits narrowed through the decade
and America gained a reputation for stable growth and low
inflation rates, the dollar only became more attractive.  The new world, however, contained great risks. In the
1990s, foreign capital rushed into the newly industrialized
countries of East and Southeast Asia, fueling economic booms
that caused rapid increases in asset prices and currency values.
Cheap money encouraged companies to borrow heavily to invest in
risky projects, until the boom couldn’t be sustained without
infusions of new capital.  Asian Crisis  The  International Monetary Fund , a product of the Bretton
Woods conference, made emergency loans to several Asian
countries during the crisis. The money came with numerous
conditions that made the IMF deeply unpopular in certain parts
of the world, reinforcing a stigma associated with borrowing
from the IMF that had been developing for decades. The lesson
for many emerging-market countries was that they never wanted to
have to borrow from the IMF again.  Attempts to stop the private sector from borrowing too much
foreign capital, however, have had limited success. So central
banks around the world protect themselves by building up large
war chests. Some countries, notably  China , accumulate dollars as
a way of suppressing the value of their own currencies. China’s
huge trade surplus with the U.S. gives it a surplus of dollars,
but if it traded them for yuan on the open market, that would
increase the value of the yuan, making it harder to export
goods. Instead, it invests those dollars in U.S. Treasury bonds
and other dollar-denominated assets.  Ultimately, the instability of the global economy increases
demand for safe assets, and there is still no safer asset than
U.S. Treasury bonds. But how long will dollar pre-eminence last
-- and what happens to the sustainability of American budget
deficits when it ends?  (Simon Johnson and  James Kwak  are authors of “13 Bankers”
and co-founders of The Baseline Scenario, a blog on economic and
public policy. Johnson is also a Bloomberg View columnist. This
is the last of three excerpts from their new  book , “White House
Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It
Matters to You,” to be published by the Knopf Doubleday Group
on April 3. The opinions expressed are their own.  Read Parts 1 
and  2 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on China’s  clean-coal
technology , Ireland’s  economic woes  and Syria’s  muddled
opposition . William Pesek on  Japan’s workplace discrimination .
 Margaret Carlson  on  Trayvon Martin and Al Sharpton . Meghan
O’Sullivan on  Iraq’s economic salvation . Clive Crook on the
writings of a  potential World Bank president.  And  Peter Orszag 
and Peter Diamond on  Mitt Romney’s Social Security plan .  To contact the writers of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu 
James Kwak at  jkwak@law.harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Paula Dwyer at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  