-- Parcells’ Coaching Return With Saints Is Possible, Payton Says
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-27T16:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/parcells-coaching-return-with-saints-is-possible-payton-says.html
Sean Payton of the  New Orleans 
Saints said it’s possible  Bill Parcells  will be the team’s
interim coach while Payton is suspended for the National
Football League season.  Payton, a former assistant under Parcells, said today that
he speaks regularly with the two-time Super Bowl-champion coach
with the  New York Giants . He said the relationship was similar
to that of a child and parent.  “I’ll have a chance to see Bill and I normally would any
time I’m in this area,” Payton said in a televised briefing
with reporters at the NFL owners meetings in  Palm Beach ,
 Florida . “I think we’d be considering all options, to be fair,
and do our homework on each option before making a decision.”  Payton was suspended for the 2012 season by NFL
Commissioner  Roger Goodell  last week because of his role in
allowing and covering-up a Saints bounty program that included
financial bonuses for injuring opposing players. The punishment,
the stiffest ever imposed on an NFL team and its leadership,
included a $500,000 fine, the loss of two draft picks and a
half-season suspension for team General Manager Mickey Loomis.  Payton, 48, said today that any decision on the Saints’
coaching situation might be pushed back depending on whether the
team decides to appeal the suspensions. ESPN reported yesterday
that Payton had spoken with Parcells about coaching the Saints
this season.  Payton said he and Parcells have a “dialogue” in which he
regularly seeks advice. He said talking with the former coach
this week would be “pretty normal.”  ‘Adviser and Parent’  “The specifics in regards to him coaching, and I’ve read a
lot of the reports, that would be something that Mickey and I
and our owner and Bill would deal with at a later time,” Payton
said. “Right now it’s been more as an adviser and a parent, and
that’s what he’s been to me.”  Parcells, 70, is the only coach to lead four different NFL
franchises to the playoffs. He was 172-130-1 in 22 seasons, and
coached the Giants to  Super Bowl  victories following the 1986
and 1990 seasons.  Payton “sought my counsel on some of the aspects of the
situation in New Orleans,” Parcells told the New York Daily
News.  This season’s Super Bowl is set for the Saints’ home field,
the Superdome, in February 2013.  Parcells last coached the  Dallas Cowboys  from 2003 to 2006,
when Payton served as quarterbacks coach and assistant head
coach for the first three years.  “He’s a great teacher, certainly I’m biased having worked
with him, and he’s a Hall of Fame head coach,” Payton said.
“There are also some things set up in the framework of our
program that would be exactly how he would have set those things
up had he been the head coach back in ‘06. So there is some
carry over that way.”  Saints Apologies  Payton, Loomis and former Saints defensive coordinator
 Gregg Williams , who received an indefinite ban, all apologized
for their roles in the bounty program after the league announced
the penalties. Payton said the past week has been challenging
and looks forward to when he can rejoin the Saints.  “The biggest challenge is, this is potentially the first
of 39 years where you’re not directly involved in football for a
season,” Payton said. “But that being said, I look forward to
getting back in this position and I look forward to winning.
We’ll do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  