-- Paris Is Europe Health IPO Hub With Most Sales in 20 Years
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-03-28T17:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/paris-is-europe-health-care-ipo-hub-with-most-sales-in-20-years.html
France ’s fourth health-related
company to sell shares in an initial public offering this year
starts trading in Paris tomorrow, bringing the first quarter’s
tally to the most in at least two decades.  Unlike the U.K., Germany and Switzerland, which have seen a
drought of such stock sales, French biotechnology or medical
companies are lining up to issue stock thanks to a pool of
dedicated health-care funds, an accessible market for small
stocks and tax breaks that have spawned such startups.  DBV
Technologies SA (DBV) , which is developing peanut and milk allergy
treatments with patches rather than injections, priced its sale
of 4.57 million shares today.  “France is one of the rare countries where you can still
get biotech and med-tech IPOs done,” says Christian Finan, who
heads  equity capital markets  at Bryan, Garnier & Co. in Paris,
an underwriter of health-care IPOs. “Investors here have an
appetite for these assets and are willing to look at them even
in a difficult IPO environment if they are of quality.”  This year,  Adocia SAS (ADOC) , which has an accord with Eli Lilly &
Co. to develop and market so-called ultra-rapid insulin;  EOS
Imaging SA (EOSI) , a maker of devices for three-dimensional views of
the body, and  Intrasense SAS (ALINS) , a medical-imaging software maker,
raised about 70 million euros ($93 million). Their lackluster
stock performance isn’t deterring others.  SuperSonic Imagine , a maker of ultrasound imaging machines,
and  Vexim SA , a French producer of implants to treat vertebral
fractures of the spine, are among companies considering IPOs.  French Momentum  Four out of the five IPOs in France in the first quarter
were by health-related companies.  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , Dexia SA
and Gilbert Dupont are among the lead managers of the sales.  Overall, the French health IPO record has been promising.
Of the 10 such IPOs in France in 2010 and 2011, only Tekka, a
dental-implant maker, has fallen sharply, trading 71 percent
below its IPO price. Shares of  Carmat SAS (ALCAR) , which is developing
an artificial heart, have more than quintupled. Novagali Pharma
SA was last year acquired by Japan’s Santen Pharmaceutical Co.  “Momentum has clearly been picking up in France in the
biotech and med-tech sectors,” says Andre Choulika, founder and
chief executive officer of Paris-based  Cellectis (ALCLS)  SA, a DNA
researcher. “It’s not the same in other European countries.”  The companies have benefited from tax breaks for corporate
research expenses, with the main fiscal measure seen by French
entrepreneurs as key to the funding of innovation in biotech in
a 2011 Ernst & Young LLP survey, says Franck Sebag, a Paris-
based partner for the accounting firm.  “France has had pretty strong-willed policies for
companies investing in innovation,” says Sebag. “This de facto
helps biotech companies.”  Dedicated Funds  France also has health-care venture funds such as Paris-
based  Sofinnova Partners , an investor in DBV Technologies, and
 Edmond de Rothschild Investment Partners , which owns a stake in
EOS Imaging. Societe Generale,  Bryan Garnier  and  Invest
Securities  have been building their health-care coverage.  The 2005 creation of NYSE Alternext for small and medium-
sized businesses with easier requirements for biotech and
medical-device companies facilitated trading of their shares.  In the U.K., investors burned by a drop in shares of
companies such as  Renovo Group Plc (RNVO)  and  Antisoma Plc (ASM)  may be wary
of biotech companies.  Renovo, a developer of skin treatments that went public in
2006, today  trades  93 percent below its June 2007 peak levels.
Antisoma, which develops cancer treatments, closed at a high of
256.49 pence on March 7, 2000. It now trades at 1.75 pence.  ‘No Interest’  Cellectis’s Choulika said he is struck by the lack of
interest in the U.K. and in other European countries. “Our
roadshows in the U.K. raise no interest,” he said. “There’s
more interest for Cellectis in the U.S. There is some interest
in Switzerland, a bit in Scandinavian countries, but interest is
very limited in Germany and almost non-existent in the U.K.”  There have been no health-related IPOs this year in Germany
or  Switzerland  and one in the U.K.  Truffle Capital, a venture-capital firm based in Paris,
brought three companies to market in 2010, including Carmat.  “People were telling us we were crazy, that these IPOs
would not be successful, that it was impossible to do IPOs in
France,” recalls Philippe Pouletty, the co-founder of Truffle
Capital. “They were wrong.”  Shaky equity markets shouldn’t deter a company from tapping
the market if its business plan is sound, the management good
and historical shareholders are willing to invest, he said.  ‘Yes, We Can’  “You cannot remain seated on a chair, waiting to see
whether things will get better, if markets will start rising
again,” he says. “You have to say, ‘Yes, we can.’”  DBV sold shares at 8.86 euros each, the bottom of the range
that the company had sought. The stock begins trading tomorrow.  There are about 300 French biotech and med-tech companies,
said Choulika, who also heads  France Biotech , an industry
association. Some of them would be “good IPO candidates,” he
said, citing Cerenis Therapeutics SA as an example.  Based in Toulouse, France, and  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan ,
Cerenis’s main product candidate is a compound that may treat
 heart disease  and high cholesterol. Jean-Louis Dasseux, its
founder and CEO, said in an interview last year he may consider
funding options including an IPO in 2013.  Vexim  is close to a decision on an IPO in April, Truffle
Capital’s Pouletty has said. The firm owns a majority stake in
Vexim, which is based in Balma, France.  SuperSonic Imagine is “working” on its own IPO plans,
Jacques Souquet, the company’s founder and CEO, said in a March
14 interview. He declined to give any details.  Glut Worries  “I hope the momentum won’t break because too many
companies opt for an IPO without being ready for it,” Choulika
says.  The size of the offers in France remains unimpressive, said
Kristelle Kerforn, a director of health-care mergers and
acquisitions at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank.  “We’re talking of relatively small amounts of money,”
Kerforn says. “We don’t expect a very active market.”  Still, there’s plenty of interest out there, said Remi Soula, head of business development and scientific adviser at
Adocia, the developer of experimental diabetes treatments.  “French people always had an obsession for innovation, but
for years TGV trains or Rafale airplanes were the rage,” he
said. “They seem more passionate about life sciences these
days. We’re really benefiting from that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  