-- PDVSA Unit to Take Stakes in Ventures to Supply Worker Fund
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-03-27T23:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/pdvsa-unit-to-take-stakes-in-ventures-to-supply-worker-fund-1-.html
Petroleos de Venezuela SA  will
create a new subsidiary called PDVSA Social that will take a
minimum 4 percent stake in oil joint ventures and use dividends
to pay debt owed to public workers in President  Hugo Chavez ’s
government.  The fund, which will also receive an oil extraction tax
paid by minority partners in oil ventures, will issue bolivar-
denominated notes called “Petro Orinocos,” that will be used
to pay down debt to state workers, Chavez said today.  “This will allow workers to reap the benefits of our oil
industry,” Oil Minister and president of PDVSA Rafael Ramirez
said today during the meeting with Chavez in Cuba broadcast on
state television. “PDVSA isn’t giving up ownership of the joint
ventures or privatizing the industry as some people have
suggested.”  Chavez, who is seeking re-election in October elections as
he battles an undisclosed cancer, is creating the workers funds
and drafting a new labor law ahead of the campaign that
officially begins in July. Chavez said he’ll have to change the
central bank law to allow the funds to sell U.S. dollars
received from oil operations. The fund will sell the dollars
through the bank’s currency market, known as Sitme, to receive
local currency to pay interest and principal on the bolivar
notes.  Workers who receive the bolivar notes as payment for labor-
related debt from the government, will be able to sell the
instruments through the Public Securities Exchange in a
secondary market after a two-year waiting period, Chavez said.  “All of this implies a change of several laws,” Chavez
said. “We’re preparing all of this to celebrate Worker’s Day on
May 1.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  