-- Pentagon to Seek More Funds for Israel’s Missile Defenses
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-03-27T20:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/pentagon-to-seek-more-funds-for-israel-s-missile-defenses.html
The Pentagon will request
additional funds from Congress to buy missile-defense systems
for Israel, the U.S. Defense Department’s spokesman said.  The funds are on top of $205 million requested last year to
buy more of the Iron Dome systems designed to intercept short-
range rockets and mortar rounds fired at Israeli cities,
spokesman  George Little  said today in an e-mailed statement.  “During the rocket attacks earlier this month, the Iron
Dome system played a critical role in Israel’s security,”
Little said. “When nearly 300 rockets and mortars were fired at
southern Israel, Iron Dome intercepted over 80 percent of the
targets it engaged, saving many civilian lives.”  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  has faced questions from
both Democratic and Republican lawmakers about the Pentagon’s
funding commitments. Members of Congress have asked why the
Pentagon’s fiscal 2013 budget seeks $99.8 million for Israel’s
missile defenses, a reduction from the $106 million the
administration requested last year and the $216 million that
Congress provided.  Republican Representatives Howard “Buck” McKeon of
 California , chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, and
Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of  Florida , head of the House Foreign
Affairs Committee, wrote Obama Feb. 14 that they were “deeply
concerned” about the administration’s request “at a time of
rising threats to our strongest ally.”  McKeon said in a statement today that he was “pleased that
the president now acknowledges the need to increase funding to
counter a deadly threat, and I look forward to working together
to identify the additional resources necessary to help defend
our Israeli friends.”  The  Iron Dome  is made by Rafael Advanced Defense Systems
Ltd., which says on its website that it was started as part of
 Israel ’s Ministry of Defense and incorporated in 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  