-- Petroplus Refinery, Takefuji Loans, Elpida Delisting: Bankruptcy
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-03-27T12:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/petroplus-refinery-takefuji-loans-elpida-delisting-bankruptcy.html
Potential buyers for Petroplus
Holdings AG’s  Coryton (BPCOCRUD)  oil refinery in the U.K. will visit the
site in the coming weeks, according to a local member of the
European Parliament.  “There are a number of interested parties,” Richard Howitt, an MEP for the east of  England , said by phone. “We need
to advance the bids.”  Indicative offers from investors will have to be submitted
by April 2, Howitt said in a statement.  Petroplus filed for insolvency in January after lenders
froze credit lines at the end of 2011. Morgan Stanley, KKR & Co.
and AtlasInvest agreed last month to supply crude to the 220,000
barrel-a-day Coryton plant near London as part of a so-called
tolling arrangement for an initial period of three months.  That agreement is extendable, Howitt said. There’s pressure
to get a long-term solution, he said.  The Coryton facility was scheduled to have a shutdown in
late 2012, the company said in November. “Preparations for the
turnaround are continuing,” Howitt said.  Final bids for Petroplus’s Cressier refinery in  Switzerland 
must be submitted by the end of March, Brigitte Umbach-Spahn,
the administrator at Wenger Plattner, a  law firm  in Zurich, said
last week in an e-mail.  Petroplus is in talks with as many as 10 potential buyers,
a local Swiss government official, said in January. “Some very
big companies are interested,” Thierry Grosjean, head of the
canton of Neuchatel’s economy department, said Jan. 24, without
identifying the potential buyers.  The Cressier facility has the capacity to process 68,000
barrels of crude a day.  LyondellBasell Sells $3 Billion in Bonds to Fund Debt Buyback  LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) , the chemical maker that
emerged from bankruptcy in 2010, sold $3 billion of bonds to buy
back higher-cost debt.  The world’s third-biggest independent chemical company
issued $2 billion of seven-year, 5 percent notes that priced to
yield 337 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries and
$1 billion of 12-year, 5.75 percent bonds that yielded 323 basis
points more than government debt, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Proceeds will help fund a tender offer for the firm’s
8 percent senior secured notes due in 2017 and 11 percent bonds
maturing in 2018, the Rotterdam-based company said in a
statement.  LyondellBasell is refinancing as management seeks to lift
its  credit ratings  from junk status and to cut interest expenses
to below $200 million from about $800 million in 2010, according
to a Feb. 22 presentation.  Standard & Poor’s  raised the chemical
maker’s corporate credit rating to BBB-, the lowest step of
investment-grade.  “This is an additional play to move into the investment-
grade level and refinance into lower rates,” Wen Li, an analyst
at CreditSights Inc. in  New York , said in a telephone interview.
“If the economy continues at the current pace, and they
continue to make huge amounts of profit and move their  capital
structure  in a way to appease the rating agencies, they should
be able to.”  LyondellBasell filed for  bankruptcy protection  in January
2009 when it ran short of cash as demand for chemicals and
plastics plummeted during the worst recession in seven decades.  Takefuji Owner J Trust Plans to Triple Monthly Consumer Lending  J Trust Co. (8508) , the Japanese financial services company that
bought bankrupt  Takefuji Corp. (8564) , aims to more than triple
consumer lending to 5 billion yen ($60 million) a month by
tapping client data acquired in the deal.  Lopro Corp., J Trust’s lending unit, plans to initially
lend 1.5 billion yen a month under the Takefuji brand starting
this month, J Trust Chief Executive Officer Nobuyoshi Fujisawa
said in an interview on March 21. He declined to comment on when
the company would reach the monthly target.  Fujisawa in December beat  South Korea ’s A&P Financial Co.
to buy Takefuji for 25.2 billion yen, almost tripling J Trust’s
consumer loans outstanding to 37 billion yen. J Trust on March 1
completed the purchase of Takefuji’s assets, including data from
more than 8 million borrowers, without inheriting liabilities
such as obligations to refund overcharged interest to customers.  “Our acquisition of Takefuji is a big asset that allows us
to draw our consumer-lending business picture,” he said. “From
the huge amount of client data, we should be able to find
potential customers and grow our lending.”  J Trust’s  shares  have almost tripled on the Osaka
Securities Exchange since Dec. 28, when Takefuji named the
Japanese company as the winning bidder. J Trust has taken over
24 billion yen of recoverable loan assets from Takefuji,
Fujisawa said.  Elpida Shares Close at 1 Yen Before Delisting on Bankruptcy  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665)  closed at 1 yen in  Tokyo  trading before
a delisting that will wipe out shareholders in a company that
was  valued  at more than $1.1 billion before it filed for
bankruptcy last month.  The chipmaker, whose customers include  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , will be
delisted after seeking court protection with 448 billion yen
($5.4 billion) of  liabilities  last month. Elpida, which went
public in November 2004, failed after  losses  in the past five
quarters, exacerbated by falling  chip  prices and a rising yen,
left it unable to repay debt.  The last Japanese maker of dynamic random access memory, or
DRAM, chips sought court protection after slowing personal-
computer sales cut prices for its products and the strong
Japanese currency eroded earnings from overseas. Customers may
have to pay more for chips if Elpida is liquidated, as the
industry would lose 12 percent of capacity, according to
TrendForce Corp., a Taipei-based research company.  IAG May Purchase American Airlines Stake, Sunday Times Says  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) , owner of
British Airways, may buy a stake in  American Airlines (AMR1)  to pre-
empt a similar move by a rival, the  Sunday Times reported ,
without saying how it obtained the information.  IAG has been prompted to consider the step as  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC)  and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  also may bid for AMR Corp.’s
American, according to the report. IAG Chief Executive Officer
William Walsh is weighing several options, the Times said.  “We have no comment on the report, as we don’t comment on
rumor or speculation,”  Andy Backover , an AMR spokesman, told
Bloomberg by e-mail. “IAG has been a very supportive partner
throughout this process and has consistently expressed a strong
vote of confidence in our business plan for a successful
restructuring.”  Laura Goodes, a spokeswoman for London-based IAG, declined
to comment when reached on March 25 by phone.  Fort Worth , Texas-
based American and British Airways are the biggest carriers in
the Oneworld airline alliance.  -- With assistance by Charles Mead in New York, Nidaa Bakhsh and
Mathew Carr in  London , Naoko Fujimura, Shigeru Sato and Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo. Editor: Anthony Aarons  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 