-- Pfizer Rises After Goldman Raises Potential for Full Breakup
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-03-27T20:23:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/pfizer-rises-after-goldman-raises-possibility-of-full-breakup.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, rose to its highest price in more than four years
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts said the company may go
beyond the divestiture plans it has already announced.  Pfizer climbed 1.5 percent to $22.50 at the close in  New
York , the highest value since $22.55 in February 2008. The
 shares  have increased 8.3 percent since July 6, the day before
Pfizer Chief Executive Officer Ian Read said the New York-based
company was exploring strategic alternatives for its animal
health and nutrition businesses.  Read, at a recent meeting with Goldman analysts, indicated
he may be willing to further split up the company after selling
or spinning off those two units,  Jami Rubin , a Goldman analyst,
wrote in a note to investors.  “We see these moves as first steps in a potential full-
scale breakup,” akin to the split now taking place at  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT) , Rubin wrote.  Abbott, based in Abbott Park, Illinois, said Oct. 19 it
plans to divide into two publicly traded companies, with one
focused on drug development and the other on products including
medical devices,  infant formula  and generics.  Rubin said a further breakup would be dependent on Pfizer’s
success in getting new, brand-name drugs approved by U.S.
regulators. “If the pipeline is successful and drives
meaningful top-line growth, management will want to separate the
businesses so investors can better value the pharma business,”
Rubin said in her note. She said that a breakup could happen by
2015.  ‘Value Creation’  “Ultimately, our decisions will be driven by value
creation for the businesses and delivering the greatest after-
tax value for our shareholders over time,”  Ray Kerins , a Pfizer
spokesman, wrote in an e-mailed response to questions about the
Goldman report.  Read previously said he intends to create more detailed
financial reports for the generic and brand-name products, to
help investors better understand the two units.  Of Pfizer’s $67.4 billion in 2011  revenue , $18.5 billion
fell under “established products” or “emerging markets.” The
animal health and infant nutrition units that Pfizer is
currently divesting had $6.32 billion in sales last year.  The Goldman report said Abbott’s share jump “will likely
pressure other CEOs to consider similar strategies if the sum of
the parts is greater than the whole,” Rubin said in the note.
“Our recent meeting with PFE’s CEO  Ian Read  suggests he is open
to all options to unlock  shareholder value , including
considering going further in divesting non-core assets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  