-- Philippine Peso Climbs on Remittance Outlook; Bonds Advance
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-03-27T08:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/philippine-peso-advances-most-in-a-week-on-remittance-outlook.html
The Philippine peso climbed the
most in a week on speculation funds sent home by citizens based
abroad will rise to meet payments for school fees. Bonds rose.  The currency extended its 2.1 percent gain this quarter
after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday
U.S. monetary policy needs to focus on creating jobs, boosting
investor appetite for emerging-market assets. Remittances, which
make up about 10 percent of the Philippine economy, increased
5.4 percent in January from a year earlier to $1.6 billion, the
central bank said on March 15.  “Everyone is expecting remittances to come in because of
the school enrolment season,” said Lito Mercado, head of
trading at Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. in  Manila .
“Bernanke’s statement signals that  interest rates  will stay low
and that will help global growth.”  The peso closed 0.3 percent stronger at 42.92 per dollar,
the biggest increase since March 19, according to Tullett Prebon
Plc. It has advanced 2.2 percent this quarter. The currency’s
one-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate
swings used to price options, was unchanged at 5.75 percent.  The Bureau of the Treasury rejected all bids for seven-year
bonds at an auction today to prevent borrowing costs from rising.
The government has a “comfortable cash position” and the
market was offering “unrealistic rates,” Treasurer  Roberto Tan 
told reporters. The Treasury will release the second-quarter
sale schedule by March 29 and it may not offer 20-year bonds in
the coming quarter, Deputy Treasurer Eduardo Mendiola said today.  The yield on the 6.375 percent government bond due January
2022 declined five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to
5.40 percent, reversing a five-basis point increase earlier,
prices from Tradition Financial Services showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  