-- Cuba Dismisses Calls for Political Change During Pope’s Visit
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2012-03-27T18:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/pope-stands-by-cubans-striving-for-change-amid-economic-hardship.html
Cuba’s government ruled out
political change in the communist island as  Pope Benedict XVI ,
who is visiting the country, urged them to look for alternatives
to Marxism and said he was praying for those people who’ve been
denied freedoms.  “In Cuba, there won’t be political reform,” Marino
Murillo, vice president of the  Council of Ministers , told
reporters in front of a poster of the pope today in Havana. The
Caribbean nation “is in the process of carrying out the Cuban
economic model that will make our socialism sustainable.”  Since arriving in Cuba yesterday, the pope has been greeted
by enthusiastic supporters at his every stop as he vows to
revive faith and offers support for political and economic
change. Before traveling to what pollsters call Latin America’s
 least devout  nation, he criticized Marxism as outdated and urged
Cubans to seek out new models.  While the Roman Catholic Church has steadily gained
influence in Cuba since Pope  John Paul II ’s 1998 visit, the
results of its campaign for greater economic, political and
spiritual freedom have been mixed. After securing the release of
dozens of political prisoners in recent years, it stood by as
President  Raul Castro ’s government rounded up dissidents last
week and helped evict protesters seeking refuge in a church. The
pope and Cuban president are due to meet today.  Speaking at a church in Santiago de Cuba today, the pope
said he was praying for “those who suffer, who are deprived of
liberty, separated from their loved ones or who are going
through serious moments of difficulty.”  Protester Hit  Security pulled away a man who tried to approach the pope
shouting “down with communism” during a Mass yesterday. Images
broadcast on Colombian TV network RCN showed him being hit in
the face several times by the crowd, once with a gurney by a man
wearing a Red Cross vest.  Federico Lombardi, a Vatican spokesman, told reporters that
the incident lasted only one or two minutes.  “We know that there are people here that are part of the
opposition and that aren’t in agreement with the government,”
Lombardi said. “There’s a right for people to express their
opinions, but there also is the right not to be disturbed in
one’s religious activities.”  On arrival in Havana today, the pope was greeted by ballet
dancers performing on the runway. He will hold an open-air Mass
tomorrow in Revolution Square, where  Fidel Castro  used to lead
anti-American rallies. While in the capital, it’s also possible
he’ll have a private audience with the former president though
no such meeting is planned, Lombardi said.  Chavez Speculation  Venezuelan media have also speculated about the possibility
of a papal visit for President  Hugo Chavez , who is on the island
receiving radiation treatment for cancer. Lombardi said no such
meeting had been requested, though the self-declared 21st
century socialist revolutionary is free to attend Mass like
anyone else.  President Raul Castro yesterday welcomed the pope, who
turns 85 next month, by declaring Cuba’s respect for religion.
He said the government shares values with the church, and said
capitalism was suffering from a “systemic crisis” fueled by
“excessive selfishness in opulent societies.”  The pope made similar comments, deploring a global economy
that was experiencing a “deep moral and spiritual crisis”
fueled by excessive selfishness.  Since  John Paul ’s groundbreaking visit, the church has
gained influence with Cuba’s government that’s normally reserved
for allies like Venezuela and  Brazil .  Back to the Pews  Cubans have also started returning to the pews after Castro
declared Christmas a holiday in the once officially atheist
nation. Still, only half of the nation’s 11.2 million people
identify themselves as Catholics compared with 85 percent in
 Mexico , according to a 2011 study by the Washington-based Pew
Research Center’s Forum on Religion and Public Life.  Most of the church’s work has been behind the scenes. Its
role has gained importance since Fidel started in 2006 to
relinquish control to his brother, who then began easing state
control of the economy to allow Cubans to seek self-employment
in basic professions and buy and sell property for the first
time since the revolution. Among other activities, the church
runs courses teaching accounting and other business skills.  While the door is shut to political change, Murillo, the
architect of recent economic policies, said that Cuba has
studied modifications made by  China ,  Vietnam  and  Russia  to their
economies with an eye to further reforms.  “We’ve done it with the aim of learning and understanding
the economic concepts those countries have applied, which
doesn’t automatically mean we’re going to copy what others
did,” Murillo said.  Economic Woes  The calls for economic change come amid a decline in the
price of nickel, the country’s biggest export, and a slowdown in
tourism as  Europe ’s debt crisis damps global economic growth.
Cuba’s gross domestic product expanded 2.5 percent last year,
according to the  United Nations ’ Economic Commission for  Latin
America  and the Caribbean, compared with 4.3 percent  growth  for
the region.  Pressure has been building on the Vatican to speak out
against repression by the Castro government.  State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said March 19
that the U.S. would like to see the pope call on the Cuban
government to release political prisoners. She said the
detention of 70 activists from the Ladies in White a week before
the pope’s arrival was “reprehensible.”  About 30 members of the group, made up of wives and
relatives of jailed dissidents, attended Mass yesterday in
Havana, reiterating their request for a one-minute audience with
Benedict.  On March 13, a separate group of 13 activists occupied a
church in  Havana  to demand an audience with Benedict only to be
evicted two days later with the archdiocese’s support.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Havana at  cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 