-- Pro-Romney PAC Killing Machine With Attack Ads
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-03-27T19:38:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/pro-romney-pac-killing-machine-with-attack-ads.html
A new ad airing today in the run-up
to the April 3 Wisconsin primary replays footage of  Rick Santorum  saying he doesn’t “care what the  unemployment rate ’s
going to be” and accuses him of voting against national right-
to-work legislation.  It’s the latest attack spot sponsored by Restore Our
Future, a so-called super-political action committee supporting
 Mitt Romney , aimed at derailing Santorum’s candidacy in
Wisconsin by running more than 1,884 attack ads that the former
Pennsylvania senator’s campaign says are misleading.  The commercial fits a pattern that has become a defining
feature of the 2012 Republican presidential primary race. Since
the contests began, Restore Our Future has spent $35 million on
commercials attacking Santorum and  Newt Gingrich , the former
U.S. House speaker, the two candidates who have come closest to
knocking Romney out of front-runner status, according to the
Washington-based Center for Responsive Politics, which tracks
political money. The super-PAC has spent just $1.1 million
promoting Romney, the data shows.  “They need to demonize and destroy, they need to slash and
burn their opponents,” said  David Johnson , a Republican
strategist from Atlanta who worked on former Senator Bob Dole’s
presidential bid in 1988 and is unaffiliated with any candidate
this cycle. “That’s the only way Romney can win” because he
has “no base of support,” he said.  3 Majority-Vote Wins  In the 29 states holding primary competitions thus far,
Romney has gotten a majority only three times: in his home state
of Massachusetts; in  Virginia , where Santorum and Gingrich
weren’t on the ballot; and in Idaho. In  Nevada , he got 50.1
percent support among caucus attendees.  In contrast to the super-PAC, Romney’s campaign has spent
$11.8 million on broadcast ads, according to the CRP. The
campaign has aired 12,817 spots, almost all of them positive,
since January of 2011, according to CMAG.  The Romney commercial run most often is called “Moral
Responsibility” and touts his commitment to be a strong
financial steward for the nation. Another ad calls Romney a
“man of steadiness,” citing his 42-year marriage to Ann
Romney, his lifelong membership in the same church and his
employment at Bain Capital LLC for 25 years.  Both the Romney campaign and Restore Our Future declined to
comment through their spokeswomen, Andrea Saul and Brittany
Gross.  ‘Troubling’ Ads  John Brabender , a Santorum senior adviser, called the pro-
Romney super-PAC ads “troubling,” particularly since they are
aimed at Republicans. “Why in the world didn’t he spend his $35
million running ads against Obama instead of brutally attacking
Republicans?” Brabender said.  The pro-Santorum political action committee, the Red, White
and Blue Fund, today is hitting back with an ad in  Wisconsin 
highlighting Romney’s “job-killing taxes and fees” as governor
of Massachusetts, a $1 billion debt and his health-care plan
that was a “blueprint for Obamacare.” That ad also leaves out
the fact that Romney has said the law was a state-specific
solution and that he would repeal Obama’s law if elected
president.  In Wisconsin, and elsewhere, the campaign ads illustrate
the role that super-PACs are playing in presidential elections
after the  Supreme Court  ruled in 2010 that independent third
parties have a constitutional right to raise and spend as much
as they want on political ads.  Role of Super-PACs  In the case of Santorum and Gingrich, wealthy donors to
their friendly super-PACS, including the pro-Gingrich Winning
Our Future, have helped keep them in the race when their own
fundraising faltered. Restore Our Future has helped Romney by
ensuring neither of those candidacies gained momentum.  The only court stipulation is that the groups can’t
coordinate their activities with a campaign. Candidates found a
way around that hurdle by dispatching aides to operate them.
Restore is run by former Romney advisers, including Charles R. Spies, who was Romney’s general counsel in the 2008 Republican
primary. Its board of directors includes Carl Forti, who was
political director four years ago.  “The way they function is essentially a parallel
presidential campaign,” said  Anthony Corrado , a political
scientist at Colby College in Waterville, Maine. “The notion
that these PACs are independent is nothing more than a legal
technicality.”  Restore Backers  The pro-Romney group’s leading contributor last month was
Houston homebuilder Bob Perry, according to Federal Election
Commission records. Perry helped fund the Swift Boat Veterans
for Truth ads that attacked Democratic presidential nominee John Kerry’s Vietnam War service in the 2004 race. Restore’s ads are
being made by Larry McCarthy, who in 1988 produced the “Willie
Horton” ad that linked a murderer to Democratic nominee Michael Dukakis, a former  Massachusetts  governor, a smear even
Republicans said was unfair.  Since Jan. 1 of last year, Restore has aired the same 16
negative ads 41,612 times in the major media markets of primary
states from Michigan to  Florida  and Colorado, according to data
provided by CMAG.  The committees backing Gingrich and Santorum ran 8,172 and
8,121 negative spots, respectively, according to data from CMAG.  Restore concentrated its firepower first on Gingrich in
Florida after his Jan. 21 victory in South Carolina and then on
Santorum in  Ohio  after his wins in Colorado and Minnesota on
Feb. 7.  Convicted Felons Ad  Another commercial sponsored by Restore accuses Santorum of
voting with former Senator  Hillary Clinton  in favor of granting
voting rights to violent convicted felons. The charge that
Santorum supported voting rights for convicted felons was
repeated 2,671 times before the Ohio March 6 primary.  Santorum confronted Romney about the ad in a debate in
 South Carolina  on Jan. 16, saying it gave the impression that he
allowed felons in prison to vote. Santorum said he supported
voting rights only for people who had served their sentences.  He also pointed out that Massachusetts gives voting rights
to felons who have served their time and that Romney never tried
to change it. Romney said he was dealing with a Democratic
legislature and opposed voting rights for felons who are
released.  Like the felons ad, the latest spot running in Wisconsin
about Santorum’s opposition to right-to-work laws doesn’t tell
the full story.  Right-to-Work  Santorum has said that when he was a senator he voted to
allow states to determine their own right-to-work laws, which
prohibit agreements requiring employee union membership as a
condition of employment. He’s also said that, as president, he
would sign a national right-to-work law.  A CMAG analysis as of March 7 found one of the anti-
Santorum ads, titled “Values,” has aired a total of 4,650
times, making it the fourth-most-run spot of the campaign
season, including those in support of President Barack Obama.  That commercial criticizes Santorum for voting to raise the
nation’s borrowing limit five times. Santorum did vote to raise
the debt ceiling -- though he was joined by most of his
Republican colleagues in granting the authority to a Republican
president.  In March 2006, he was one of 52 Republicans to do so,
including Senators Jon Kyl and Mitch McConnell, now the
chamber’s top two Republicans, and former Senator Bill Frist,
then majority leader. Only four Republicans opposed it.  Ohio Results  In all, Restore ran 3,313 ads in the 10 days before Ohio’s
March 6 vote, compared to 722 by the pro-Santorum PAC. Santorum
lost narrowly to Romney, by four-fifths of a percentage point.  “He did the same thing in  Michigan  and Mississippi and
every place,” said Brabender. “In Gingrich’s case, he did
basically knock him out of the race.”  After his South Carolina win, Gingrich went into Florida’s
Jan. 31 race in a dead heat with Romney, according to a
 Quinnipiac University (78104MF)  poll conducted Jan. 19 to 23. In the final
days before the primary, Restore ran five different ads in the
state’s major media markets, every one of them attacking
Gingrich and rated as negative by Kantar.  “Overnight a storm rained dollars on the television,”
said  Susan MacManus , a University of South Florida political
scientist. “They had a big impact,” said MacManus, who also
serves as a Tampa television station analyst.  Gingrich Pelosi Ad  “Newt has more baggage than the airlines,” one of the ads
said, citing consulting fees he earned from government-backed
mortgage lender  Freddie Mac . It also claims Gingrich joined with
top House Democrat, Nancy Pelosi, to grant $60 million to a
United Nations program supporting  China ’s “brutal one-child
policy.”  China’s one-child policy refers to the country’s efforts to
limit population growth to one child per couple and human rights
advocates say it has led to forced sterilizations and abortions.  PolitiFact Florida, a project by the Tampa Bay Times, rated
the claim “pants on fire,” or completely inaccurate. While
Gingrich did co-sponsor a resolution with Pelosi to propose
funds for the UN Population Fund, the bill prohibited using any
of it for involuntary sterilization or abortion.  Romney won 46 percent to Gingrich’s 32 percent, walking
away with all 50 of Florida’s delegates. Gingrich picked up no
more than 13 percent of the vote in the next four contests.  To contact the reporter on this story: Heidi Przybyla in
Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  