-- Providence Bankruptcy Seen as Unavoidable on Budget Gap
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-03-28T22:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/providence-bankruptcy-seen-as-unavoidable-on-budget-gap.html
Providence (1055MF) ,  Rhode Island ’s capital
and biggest city, probably will seek bankruptcy court protection
to deal with a  budget deficit ,  Robert Flanders , the state-
appointed receiver for nearby Central Falls, said yesterday.  “I don’t see how they can get out of it without going
there,” said Flanders, a former state  Supreme Court  justice and
a partner at Hinckley, Allen & Snyder LLP in Providence. He put
Central Falls into bankruptcy in August and has since torn up
contracts with city workers and cut pension benefits.  Providence Mayor Angel Taveras has put pressure on  Brown
University  and other nonprofit organizations to help close a
budget gap of at least $20 million, while Governor Lincoln Chafee is pressing lawmakers for action on measures to curb
municipal pension costs. Unsustainable retiree expenses helped
push  Central Falls (1058MF)  into insolvency. Moody’s Investors Service
cut Providence debt a step to Baa1, third-lowest investment
grade, this week citing its “strained” finances.  “Bankruptcy is not the preferred option for restoring
Providence’s fiscal health; it is the last option, and I will do
everything in my power to prevent it from happening,” Taveras
said in a statement in response to a request for comment on
Flanders’ remark. “I respectfully disagree with Judge Flanders
that bankruptcy is unavoidable.”  More Common  Chapter 9 bankruptcy may become more common in the near
future, Flanders said in an interview before a Bond Buyer
conference on distressed cities in Philadelphia. Once municipal
officials become aware of how useful a tool court protection can
be, it will be hard to resist, he said, suggesting as many as 20
cities a year may take the option, if it’s open to them.  “Cities are starting to challenge what they’re going to
pay and not pay,” said Jon Schotz, a portfolio manager with
$400 million in munis under his control at Saybrook Capital LLC
in  Santa Monica , California, during a panel discussion at the
conference. “It’s going to be a bit of a new world over the
next three to four years.”  Entering bankruptcy remains a rare move by municipalities.
Since 1937, 635 municipalities have sought Chapter 9 protection,
according to  James Spiotto , a lawyer with Chapman & Cutler LLP
in  Chicago . Some states prohibit communities from doing so.  Something to Avoid  Legal analysts consider bankruptcy as something to be
avoided at all costs. Governments already have the tools they
need to deal with debt and budget issues, Richard L. Sigal, who
teaches public finance at the University of Connecticut Law
School and is a partner at Hawkins Delafield & Wood LLP in New
York, said during a panel discussion at the conference.  Chapter 9 is “a lawyer’s heaven and doesn’t seem to be
worthwhile,” said Sigal, who helped resolve  New York City ’s
fiscal crisis in 1975. Even Orange County,  California , the
biggest municipal bankruptcy before Jefferson County,  Alabama ,
entered Chapter 9 last year, could have gotten its finances in
order by borrowing, he said.  “Bankruptcy is never a desirable option,” Chafee said
yesterday in a statement. “It has broad implications and
consequences in terms of bond assessments, property values, and
negative national perception.”  “That is why the state of Rhode Island is taking every
possible step to help our municipalities -- including our
capital city of Providence -- avoid bankruptcy,” Chafee said.  Hard Choices  Many municipalities are at risk of defaulting on their
debts, said  William Rhodes , a partner at Ballard Spahr LLP who
moderated a conference panel discussion. Some community leaders
must choose between paying bondholders and maintaining vital
services, such as police and fire protection, he said.  Flanders cited the need to keep paying the  Central Falls 
workforce as a reason to seek bankruptcy. Once under the court’s
wing, he cut the city’s workforce by 32 percent and trimmed
pensions by as much as half, while continuing to pay debts.  “The decision to file Chapter 9 is not the cause of the
municipality’s dire financial condition -- it’s the remedy,”
Flanders said. “Do you want to die an inevitable financial
death by being unable to meet your obligations and defaulting,
or do you want to get right financially by coming up with a plan
of reorganization?”  In Providence, Taveras rebutted Flanders’ view of the
situation for his city.  No Central Falls  “Providence is not Central Falls,” Taveras said. “We’ve
already accomplished much in our work to put Providence back on
firm financial ground.”  A Providence bond maturing in January 2021 traded today at
97.57 cents on the dollar, yielding 4.84 percent, compared with
109.71 cents on the dollar, or 3.25 percent, on Jan. 3.  Naomi Richman, a Moody’s managing partner in public
finance, said she is monitoring how municipal-bond issuers view
bankruptcy. In the 1980s, the stigma attached to seeking court
protection declined for companies and has more recently started
to fade for individuals who take that step, she said during a
panel discussion.  Whether the perception of municipal bankruptcy will also
change is “something we’re watching and cautious about because
you can see more if there is a perception that the outcome is
favorable,” she said.  “Central Falls’ bankruptcy came with painful experiences
for residents, employees, and retirees -- lessons that should
discourage anyone from thinking bankruptcy is a quick, easy fix
to complex financial problems,” Chafee said. “Bankruptcy
should be pursued only when there are no other options, and I
will continue to push for passage of my legislative package so
that other municipalities do not go the way of Central Falls.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  