-- PTTEP Seeks East Africa Assets to Triple Output, Anon Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-03-28T03:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/pttep-seeks-east-africa-assets-to-triple-output-chief-anon-says.html
PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP) 
said its planned $1.8 billion acquisition of  Cove Energy Plc (COV) 
will act as a platform to explore natural-gas deposits in East
Africa that will help triple the Thai company’s output by 2020.  “Cove is an opportunity for us to gain an entry,” Chief
Executive Officer Anon Sirisaengtaksin said in an interview at
his office in Bangkok. “We are not just looking for this
transaction. We are more strategically looking in East Africa.”  Beyond  Mozambique , where Cove has a share in one of the
largest gas discoveries in a decade, PTTEP is seeking larger
reserves in Tanzania and  Kenya , Anon said. East Africa offers a
new source of gas supply for  Asia , where China and  India  are the
world’s fastest-growing major economies. Eni SpA of  Italy , BG
Group Plc of the U.K. and Statoil ASA of Norway also discovered
natural gas off Mozambique and Tanzania.  “East Africa is a resource-rich region that could
significantly help increase petroleum reserves for PTTEP,”
Nalinrat Kittikumpolrat, an analyst at Asia Plus Securities Pcl
in Bangkok, said by phone. “Still, it will take at least seven
years before the project makes a contribution.”  Bangkok-based PTTEP,  Thailand ’s biggest publicly traded
explorer, plans to boost production to 900,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day by 2020 through acquisitions and the expansion
of projects in  Australia , East Africa, North America and
Southeast Asia, Anon said. Thailand imports about half of the
1.8 million barrels of oil equivalent it consumes each day,
according to data from the Energy Policy and Planning Office.  ‘Hot Spot’  East Africa is a “hot spot” with the potential for
significant natural-gas discoveries, Anon said yesterday.  PTTEP shares have gained 5.9 percent this year, compared
with a 7.2 percent advance in the 63-member  Bloomberg World Oil
& Gas Index. (BWOILP)  The stock fell 0.6 percent to 178.5 baht as of
10:09 a.m. in Bangkok. Thailand’s benchmark SET Index, which is
up 17 percent this year, was down 0.3 percent.  The company last month offered 1.1 billion pounds ($1.8
billion) for London-based Cove, beating a 992.4 million-pound
bid by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  for the African explorer. Cove
holds 8.5 percent of a block off Mozambique where  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC)  found as much as 30 trillion cubic feet of gas,
enough to justify production of liquefied natural gas for Asian
markets.  Mozambique’s government is assessing how much tax will be
paid on the sale of Cove’s stake in the Rovuma basin, Mineral
Resources Minister Esperanca Bias said on March 1. PTTEP is
“now waiting for this clear resolution before we would be able
to move on,” Anon said.  Oil Sands  PTTEP may also buy assets including tight oil -- or oil
from shale formations -- in  North America  or stakes in LNG
projects that would supply the fuel to its parent company, PTT
Pcl, Anon said, without naming any acquisition targets.  In November 2010, PTTEP bought 40 percent of Stavanger,
Norway-based Statoil ASA’s oil sands project in  Canada  for $2.28
billion, the biggest acquisition by a Thai company. More
purchases are likely, even if the company’s bid for Cove proves
successful, Anon said.  “Each time we are going to make a decision we would have
at least 40 deals in the deal-flow, and we will screen and only
select one or two each year,” he said. “This will ensure you
will not make a mistake and ensure you have quality of the new
asset acquired.”  PTTEP may sell long-term hybrid bonds and is considering
other capital-raising proposals to finance acquisitions, Anon
said, without giving details. Debt won’t exceed 0.5 times the
company’s equity, Anon said.  Fiscal Flexibility  “We have the liquidity to support this new investment” in
Cove, Anon said. “But to move on and make ourselves more
flexible, a funding plan is important. So we are working to
ensure we would be ready at any time to intercept these new
opportunities.”  PTTEP has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.4 times, compared
with more than 1 for many of its global peers, Asia Plus’s
Nalinrat said. The company has 111.2 billion baht of debt,
including 79.2 billion baht of bonds and loans maturing in the
next four years, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “With its discipline in avoiding increasing its debt,
PTTEP may have to increase equity,” Nalinrat said.  The explorer has 41 oil and gas projects worldwide, and has
said it plans to spend about $20 billion on expansion by 2016.
The company’s net income rose 2.1 percent to 44.7 billion baht
last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  