-- Quest Software Sued Over Insight’s $2 Billion Buyout Offer
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-03-27T19:03:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/quest-software-sued-over-insight-s-2-billion-buyout-offer-1-.html
Quest Software Inc. (QSFT) , the  Aliso
Viejo , California-based provider of  business software  for
managing and protecting data, was sued by an investor contending
a $2 billion buyout offer by Insight Venture Partners is
“inadequate.”  The offer is “preferential” to New York-based Insight and
“detrimental” to shareholders, the Central Laborers’ Pension
Fund said in the complaint filed today in Delaware Chancery
Court in Wilmington.  “The fact that the company’s stock is trading above the
offer price is a strong indicator that the market views the
offer price as inferior to the inherent value of the company’s
stock,” the pension fund said in the complaint.  Quest has traded above the $23-a-share offer every day
since the company announced March 9 that it would sell itself to
Venture Partners, which also owns stakes in Twitter Inc. and
Zumba Fitness LLC. The offer represents a 13 percent premium  to
Quest’s average 20-day stock price, which compares to an average
premium of 17 percent on more than 1,000 applications-software
acquisitions in the past five years, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Quest is worth $26 to $28 a share, the pension fund said in
its complaint, citing a March 12 report by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The fund is seeking to represent all shareholders in its bid for
a court order barring the deal.  Tom Johnson , an outside spokesman for Quest, had no
immediate comment.  Quest rose 1 cent to $24.01 at 2:54 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have gained 29 percent
this year.  The case is Central Laborers’ Pension Fund v. Quest
Software Inc., CA7357, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  