-- Transocean Biggest Winner From 28% Jump in Oil Rig Rates: Energy
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-03-28T20:29:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/transocean-biggest-winner-from-28-jump-in-oil-rig-rates-energy.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the deep-water rig
owner that’s trailed competitors in the stock market since its
equipment burned and sank in the 2010 Gulf of Mexico  oil spill ,
is set to benefit the most this year from a surge in demand.  Rental rates for ultra-deep-water rigs, the world’s most
complex and expensive drilling vessels, should climb 28 percent
to a record $714,000 a day by the third quarter from about
$560,000 currently, according to estimates by Ole Slorer, an
analyst at Morgan Stanley who dubs the move a “super spike.”  Transocean, the world’s biggest owner of offshore rigs,
will have more units available for leasing than rivals through
2013. That positions the Swiss company better to supply vessels
that can cost $600 million each to explorers from  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  to  BP Plc (BP/)  that are leading the search for crude miles
below some of the world’s deepest oceans.  “Our long-term outlook for ultra-deep-water is very, very
robust,” Transocean Chief Executive Officer Steven Newman told
investors March 26 at the Howard Weil Energy Conference in  New
Orleans . Demand can only grow as explorers must book rigs
further into the future to get their wells drilled, he said.  The stock has  led peers  this year with a gain of 40
percent, cutting its loss since the April 20, 2010, oil spill at
BP Plc’s Macondo well to 42 percent. That’s still the biggest
decline of any offshore driller in the period.  Transocean fell 2 percent to $53.66 at the close in  New
York . Crude oil for May delivery declined 1.8 percent to $105.41
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since March 22. Prices are up 6.7 percent this year.  ‘Monster Rate’  The Vernier, Switzerland-based company surprised investors
by taking rates back to near-record territory on March 15 when
it announced a two-year contract with an undisclosed operator at
about $650,000 a day.  The contract could climb to about $695,000 if the renter
opts to continue the lease after the first two years, said
Charles Minervino, an analyst at Susquehanna International
Group. The record, set last year, is $703,000 a day, according
to IHS Petrodata, which didn’t disclose the owner.  James Crandell , an analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co., called
the Transocean contract a “monster rate” in a note to
investors the next day.  The company will more than double earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization over the next year, beating
its peers, as some of the claims for liability in the Gulf spill
were set aside and more of its rigs go to work at higher rates,
according to  data from analysts  compiled by Bloomberg.  Recession Slump  After going on a buying spree to bulk up its fleet,
Transocean was stuck with more out-of-work rigs than its peers
during the recession, said  Brian Uhlmer , an analyst at Global
Hunter Securities in Houston. The driller couldn’t get contracts
on some of its new rigs during the downturn, or re-sign rigs as
contracts expired.  Demand for offshore rigs had cooled amid the worst global
recession since World War II, coupled with falling oil prices
and a freeze on drilling in the  Gulf of Mexico  as the U.S.
government decided on new safety rules after the BP spill.  Rates tumbled to about $400,000 a day in mid-2010 from
records of about $600,000 a day in 2008.  Transocean owned the $365 million Deepwater Horizon rig
that was destroyed in the explosion that triggered the BP spill.
Transocean’s Ebitda over the past 12 months fell 54 percent, the
worst among peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cashing In  As demand revives with accelerated drilling in the U.S.
Gulf and off the coasts of Brazil and Africa, Transocean now has
the most rigs available to cash in on rising rates, said  Scott Gruber , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein.  Out of its fleet of 132, Transocean has five of the high-
tech drill ships waiting for work, and nine with contracts
ending within the next 12 months, Gruber wrote in a March 20
note to investors. Two more are expected to leave the
construction yard starting in 2013.  Exxon,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and BP are among major energy
companies exploring increasingly hostile environments as the
world’s easiest-to-tap fields dry up. Some of the biggest recent
discoveries have been in water more than a mile deep in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico and buried under layers of rock-like salt off the
coasts of Brazil and West Africa.  ‘New Ferraris’  To reach those resources, companies such as Transocean,
 Ensco Plc (ESV)  and  Noble Corp. (NE)  are being asked to provide rigs with
sturdier equipment and better technology that can safely handle
the greater depths and more difficult conditions. The vessels
can take three years to build and carry a price tag of more than
$600 million each.  Rental rates for the most modern deep-water rigs, which
 Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s Slorer calls the “new Ferraris” of the oil
world, should remain above $600,000 a day through the second
quarter of 2014, he told investors on a webcast last month after
publishing a research note titled the “Imminent Offshore Rig
Rate ‘Super Spike.’”  Those prices justify operators’ decisions, some made before
the oil spill, to build more rigs, said Pete Miller, chief
executive officer at  National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV) , in an
interview at the Howard Weil conference.  Seadrill Ltd. (SDRL) , the second-largest owner of ultra-deep-water
rigs, can recoup its $600 million investment in new vessels in
five years based on dayrates of $550,000, Chief Executive
Officer Alf Thorkildsen told investors today at the Howard Weil
conference.  “The market, I have not seen better than what we have
today in deep water,” Thorkildsen said.  ‘Party Mode’  The race to lock up the best rigs available will lift all
deep-water rig owners and suppliers, James C. West, an analyst
at  Barclays Capital  in New York, said in an interview.  “We’re definitely getting towards party mode,” he said of
the atmosphere among deep-water drillers.  National Oilwell Varco, the largest provider of drilling
rig gear to the deep-water vessels, is expected to supply at
least 85 percent of the equipment for new rig construction,
according to a March 16 analyst note from Dahlman Rose & Co.  Some drilling contractors are waiting to lease their rigs
as rates climb higher, said Miller, National Oilwell Varco’s
CEO. At least one rig owner may be holding out for $700,000 a
day, he said.  “I would argue if you’re getting $600,000 a day, you’re in
tall cotton,” Miller said.  The Three R’s  Rowan, a new entrant to the deep-water market, has three
new rigs under construction. The rigs, named the Reliance, the
Resolute and the Renaissance, are being built in the Hyundai
Heavy Industries Co. shipyard in South Korea and will roll out
beginning in late 2013.  J.  David Anderson , an analyst at JP Morgan, estimates the
rigs could snag rates around $700,000 a day.  Noble, the Geneva, Switzerland, driller, will roll out five
new drill ships in 2013 and 2014. Noble recently announced
agreements with Shell, including a three-year letter of intent
for its Jim Day rig to work at about $530,000 a day, and the
newer rigs could fetch more.  Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc. (DO) , based in Houston, is
seeking contracts for two of its four deep-water rigs under
construction. Diamond may benefit by putting to work more of its
so-called mid-water fleet, which operate in water less than
5,000-feet deep, at higher prices as the industry’s highest-
rated rigs are sold out, Slorer wrote.  Legal Liability  Some of the concerns about legal liability weighing on
Transocean were cleared in January when a New Orleans district
judge ruled that Transocean doesn’t have to pay compensatory
damages in pollution-related economic loss lawsuits related to
the BP oil spill.  The company still faces hundreds of claims by businesses
and coastal property owners for potential punitive damages, as
well as a suit brought by the U.S. claiming violations of
federal pollution laws.  Transocean said Feb. 27 it’s set aside $1 billion to pay
for potential spill claims, less than the $5 billion that had
been priced into the stock, according to Bernstein’s Gruber.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  