-- Trayvon Martin Confronted His Shooter, City Reports
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-03-29T18:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/trayvon-martin-was-killed-after-confronting-shooter-city-says.html
(Corrects city manager’s name in first paragraph of story
originally published March 27.)  George Zimmerman told police in
 Sanford (13549MF) , Florida, that he shot Trayvon Martin after being
punched in the nose and having his head slammed into the
sidewalk, said City Manager Norton Bonaparte Jr.  Bonaparte confirmed an Orlando Sentinel report yesterday
that detailed Zimmerman’s side of story. Zimmerman, whose mother
is Hispanic and father is white, claimed self-defense in the
Feb. 26 shooting of Martin, an unarmed, black 17-year-old, and
hasn’t been arrested.  Zimmerman, 28, hasn’t spoken publicly and is in hiding
because of death threats. The disclosure of his post-shooting
statement to police is the first significant airing of his
version of events.  The case has prompted rallies across the nation, a hearing
in  Washington  today and, residents say, fractured this city of
54,000 about 20 miles (32 kilometers) north of Orlando. Martin’s
family and hundreds of marchers, including civil rights
activists Jesse Jackson and Al Sharpton, have called for
Zimmerman’s arrest.  “He needs to be put on trial,” Tracy Martin, Trayvon’s
father, told the Sanford City Council yesterday. “He needs to
be given a sentence by a jury of his peers.”  Encounter by Night  On the rainy night of the shooting, Martin was walking to
his father’s fiancee’s house after buying Skittles and an
Arizona iced tea at a convenience store.  Zimmerman, a Neighborhood Watch member suspicious because
of burglaries, was driving to a grocery store when he saw Martin
walking through the gated community, according to the account
verified by Bonaparte. He started following the teenager on foot
and called police to report a suspicious person, according to a
recording authorities released. Zimmerman described Martin as
black, acting strangely and perhaps on drugs.  A dispatcher told Zimmerman to stop following Martin, and
to wait for officers to arrive.  Zimmerman told police he had been walking back to his SUV
when Martin approached from behind and asked Zimmerman whether
he had a problem. Zimmerman said no. Martin then said, “Well,
you do now” and punched Zimmerman in the nose, according to the
account Bonaparte confirmed.  What They Heard  Zimmerman told police he fell and that Martin got on top of
him and began slamming his head into the sidewalk. A police
report notes that Zimmerman was bleeding from the nose and back
of the head. Zimmerman said he began yelling for help “but no
one would help me,” according to the incident report.  Martin’s family has said it was in fact the teenager
shouting, his voice captured on a 911 recording. Their attorneys
have an affidavit from his girlfriend saying that the time of
the shooting, she was on the phone with Martin, who was worried
that he was being followed. She said a man asked Martin what he
was doing in the neighborhood before she heard a tussle and lost
the connection.  Fox 35 in  Orlando  interviewed a neighbor, whom the
television station identified only as “John,” who said he
witnessed Martin “beating up” Zimmerman. Zimmerman, the man
said, called out for help.  The witness said when he looked outside again, Martin was
dead. Zimmerman had shot Martin once in the chest.  Force Meets Force  Local officials said the state’s “stand your ground” law,
which relieves a citizen of responsibility to retreat when he
feels threatened in a public place, and which gives him the
right to “meet force with force,” prevented them from making
an arrest in the case.  Martin, a resident of Miami Gardens, was 250 miles (402
kilometers) from home visiting his father after being suspended
from school for having a baggie that contained marijuana
residue, said Ryan Julison, a Martin family spokesman.  In October, Martin was suspended after being found with
jewelry and a screwdriver that a school security staffer
described as a “burglary tool,” the Miami Herald reported.  Miami-Dade School District spokesman Rolando Martin
declined to release the report, citing confidentiality under the
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act.  Martin said a friend gave him the jewelry, according to the
Herald report. He wasn’t disciplined because of the discovery,
but was suspended for writing graffiti.  A lawyer for the family, Benjamin Crump, told the newspaper
that Martin’s parents knew nothing of the jewelry, that he
didn’t believe the incident occurred and that, in any event, it
is “irrelevant.”  Trouble at Home  Zimmerman, who is studying criminal justice, was arrested
in 2005 on charges of battery on a police officer and resisting
arrest with violence, according to the New York Times. Those
charges were dropped.  That same year, he was accused of pushing his ex-fiancee,
according to a Sentinel report. In competing court petitions,
the woman accused Zimmerman of slapping her in the past, while
Zimmerman claimed that she was the aggressor in the fight,
according to the newspaper.  The U.S.  Justice Department  last week opened a civil-rights
inquiry into the killing.  Today, House of Representatives Democrats will hold an
unofficial hearing on  Capitol Hill  addressing the shooting. The
forum starts at 3 p.m., Matt Morgan, a spokesman for
Representative  John Conyers  of  Michigan , the top Democrat on the
House Judiciary panel, said in an e-mail yesterday.  At a news conference today in Sanford, Bonaparte said the
city and Justice Department were creating a process to handle
citizen complaints about the Sanford Police Department.  “The Police Department has faced some challenges in the
past few years,” acting police Chief Darren Scott said.  Scott declined to answer questions about the case.  “It is not in the Police Department’s hands right now,”
Scott said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Sanford at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  