-- RBS Rate Traders Sat With Libor Setter, Fired Banker Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-03-27T09:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/rbs-rate-traders-sat-with-libor-setter-fired-employee-tan-says.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s
interest-rate traders were seated with one of the main rate
setters in its  London  office to share information, and discussed
rates on conference calls, a fired trader said.  Tan Chi Min, let go over accusations he manipulated the
London interbank offered rate, made the claims in court papers
filed with the Singapore High Court on March 23. Tan, who sued
RBS for wrongful dismissal, has accused the bank of using an
internal probe into Libor manipulation to find scapegoats after
condoning such behavior.  Regulators worldwide are investigating whether banks
attempted to manipulate rates including Libor, the basis for
$360 trillion of securities around the globe. The probes have
called into question whether the banks can be trusted to set the
rates with minimal regulatory oversight. Investigators have
sought information from lenders including RBS,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and Deutsche Bank AG.  Paul White , RBS’s principal rate setter for yen Libor, and
Tan’s team in London were “specifically seated together” in
the London office to “facilitate the sharing of information and
workload,” Tan, the bank’s former head of short-term interest-
rate trading for the yen, said in court papers.  Dismissed  White, who was based in London, was also dismissed as part
of the bank’s Libor probe, two people briefed on the matter said
last month. He hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing by regulators.
Contact numbers for White couldn’t be located through the
Internet or directory assistance.  Sometime in August or September 2011, RBS’s head of
compliance Sim Suh-Ting sent an internal e-mail to Robert Brennan and Todd Morakis “to the effect that it was acceptable
for a trader to request the SOR rate setters that the SOR be set
at a specific level,” Tan said in his filing, referring to
swap-offer rates.  Morakis, who was Tan’s manager, also orally confirmed to
him around October that “the practice of requesting to change
the rate Libor is common in every rate setting environment in
the banking industry,” Tan said in the filing.  Patricia Choo, a Singapore-based RBS spokeswoman, declined
to comment on behalf of Sim, Brennan and Morakis and on Tan’s
claims. Tan’s lawyer Suresh Nair declined to comment.  ‘Resource Person’  Tan said he was treated as a “resource person” on yen
Libor and was frequently asked by RBS’s yen traders about the
level at which the rate was likely to be set, with no indication
that this was outside his scope of duties, according to his
court filing.  Discussions on rate inputs were held via electronic
messages, telephone calls and regular meetings in RBS’s offices
in  Singapore ,  Tokyo  and London, Tan said. Rate requests were
also sometimes made during daily conference calls held at 4:30
p.m. Singapore time among the bank’s yen traders and managers,
according to his court filing.  The  Monetary Authority of Singapore  said March 8 regulators
elsewhere have sought its help with probes into the possible
manipulation of global  interest rates . It didn’t identify the
bodies.  The U.S. is conducting a criminal investigation into
suspected manipulation of benchmark rates including Libor, the
 Justice Department  said in a letter to a federal judge that was
made public earlier this month. The European Union, U.K.’s
Financial Services Authority and the Financial Services Agency
in  Japan  have started probes as well.  Bonus Owed  RBS, the U.K.’s largest government-owned bank, said it
fired Tan because he tried to improperly influence the bank’s
rate setters from 2007 to 2011 to persuade them to offer Libor
submissions that would benefit his trading positions, according
to the bank’s court papers in January. Tan is seeking to recoup
$1.5 million in bonuses and 3.3 million RBS shares that he says
he’s owed.  Libor is generated through a daily survey of firms
conducted on behalf of the  British Bankers’ Association  in which
banks are asked how much it would cost them to borrow from one
another for 15 different time periods, from overnight to one
year. A predetermined number of quotes are excluded and those
left are averaged and published for individual currencies
including dollars, euro, yen and Swiss francs before noon.  The case is Tan Chi Min v The Royal Bank of  Scotland ,
S939/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  