-- RBS Gains After Talks With Middle East Investors on Stake
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-03-27T15:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/rbs-gains-in-london-after-u-k-holds-talks-to-sell-part-of-stake.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
gained after the U.K. government held talks with potential
investors including Middle Eastern sovereign wealth funds about
a sale of some of its 82 percent stake in the lender.  The  shares  rose 3.3 percent to 28.67 pence in  London ,
giving the bank a market value of 31.6 billion pounds ($50
billion). The government paid an average 50.2 pence a share for
its stake, when it injected 45.5 billion pounds into the
Edinburgh-based lender from 2008 in the costliest rescue of any
bank in the world.  The government made presentations to investors in countries
including Abu Dhabi, two people with knowledge of the situation
said yesterday. The discussions are at an early stage and no
deal is imminent, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private.  The government could start selling its stake in RBS at a
loss, Jim O’Neil, head of market investments at U.K. Financial
Investments Ltd., which manages the government’s holding in the
bank, commented to a House of Commons Treasury committee on
March 14.  “Reports of a potentially significant share sale to  Abu
Dhabi  have already been watered down, with no imminent
developments anticipated,”  Ian Gordon , a banking analyst at
Investec Ltd. in London wrote in a note to clients today. “That
said, it is no secret that RBS’s determined and energetic
investor relations team reach far and wide in their quest to
broaden -- and eventually normalize -- the company’s ownership
structure.”  Amanda Staveley, a U.K. financier that helped Abu Dhabi
invest in Barclays Plc in 2008, is advising the emirate on a
possible deal with RBS, Reuters reported earlier, without saying
where it got the information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  