-- Treasuries Rally as U.S. Prepare Two-Year Note Auction
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-03-27T16:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/treasuries-stay-lower-ahead-of-u-s-home-price-report.html
Treasuries rose as the government
was poised to sell $35 billion in two-year securities at the
highest yield since July and reports showed declines in  consumer
confidence  and  home prices .  U.S. 30-year bonds advanced as the  Federal Reserve 
purchased $1.97 billion in longer-term debt. Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said continued credit expansion by
central banks will produce accelerating global inflation and
slower growth.  “You’ll have reasonable demand for the auction; I don’t
think it’ll be a problem,”  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader
in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc., said in a
telephone interview. “Those were very aggressive levels we were
at, and we’ve come off them marginally.”  Yields on  30-year bonds  declined two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.32 percent at 12:17 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent
securities due in February 2042 rose 14/32, or $4.38 per $1,000
face amount, to 96 13/32.  Benchmark 10-year note yields dropped four basis points to
2.21 percent. They touched 2.19 percent, the lowest level since
March 14. Ten-year yields increased two basis points yesterday
and have climbed 24 basis points in March in what would be the
biggest gain since December 2010.  Yields on two-year notes in pre-auction trading were 0.350
percent, the most since July 29. The securities drew a yield of
0.310 at the last two-year auction on Feb. 21.  Bernanke on Accommodation  Treasuries fell yesterday as Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
buoyed investor risk appetite by saying accommodative policy is
still needed to reduce joblessness.  “Further significant improvements in the  unemployment rate 
will likely require a more rapid expansion of production and
demand from consumers and businesses, a process that can be
supported by continued accommodative policies,” Bernanke said
Arlington, Virginia.  Volatility declined yesterday for a fourth day. Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE index , which measures Treasury
price swings based on options, fell to 85.6. It reached 93.3 on
March 20, the highest this year. The volume of Treasury trades
handled through ICAP Plc, the biggest broker between banks, fell
yesterday to about $159 billion, the lowest since Jan. 9.  Treasuries have lost 1.4 percent in 2012, their biggest
quarterly decline since the last three months of 2010, according
to indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  ‘Wake-Up Call’  “Today’s trade is a follow-up from yesterday’s Bernanke
speech,”  Ray Remy , head of fixed income in New York at Daiwa
Capital Markets America Inc., one of the 21 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed, said in a telephone interview. It’s
“another wake-up call to the market that the head of the Fed
has no interest in raising rates until such point as he sees the
economy growing strongly.”  U.S. debt securities fell on March 13, when the central
bank increased its assessment of the economy while reiterating
its pledge to keep borrowing costs low at least until late 2014.  Gross said in his monthly investment outlook posted on
Pimco’s website today that the world’s bigger manager of bond
funds favors shorter-duration and inflation-protected debt as
well as dividend-paying equities with a preference for
developing markets.  Inflation-linked Treasuries have lost 1.3 percent this
month as of March 26, compared with 1.2 percent decline for
Trasuries overall, according to Bank of American Merrill Lynch
indexes. Inflation-protect  U.S. government debt  returned 14.1
percent last year while Treasuries gained 9.8 percent.  ‘Must Take Risk’  “When  interest rates  cannot be dramatically lowered
further or risk spreads significantly compressed, the momentum
begins to shift, not necessarily suddenly, but gradually yields
moving higher and spreads stabilizing or moving slightly
wider,” Gross, the founder of Pimco, wrote. “In such a mildly
reflationary world, unless you want to earn an inflation-
adjusted return of minus 2 percent to 3 percent as offered by
Treasury bills, then you must take risk in some form.”  Today’s Treasury sale is the first of three offerings this
week totaling $99 billion in two-, five- and seven-year notes.  Investors at the last two-year note auction on Feb. 21  bid 
for 3.54 times the amount of available debt last month, versus
the average of 3.53 for the past 10 auctions.  Indirect bidders, 
the category of buyers that includes foreign central banks,
purchased 35.8 percent, the most since November.  The government is scheduled to sell $35 billion of five-
year notes tomorrow and $29 billion of seven-year securities on
March 29.  Fed Purchase  The Fed bought Treasuries today due from February 2036 to
May 2041 under a plan announced in September to cap borrowing
costs by replacing $400 billion of shorter maturities in its
holdings with longer-term debt.  Treasury investors in a weekly survey by JPMorgan Chase &
Co. reduced expectations that prices of Treasuries would rise,
increasing so-called neutral positions to the highest level
since Feb. 21.  The percent of “net longs” dropped to 4 percent in the
week ended yesterday, from 10 percent last week, while the
number of outright neutrals in the firm’s “all clients” survey
rose to 66 percent, JPMorgan wrote in a report today.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 3.8 percent from a year earlier, matching the median
forecast of 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, after
decreasing 4.1 percent in December, a report from the group
showed today in  New York . Prices were little changed in January
from the prior month, the best performance since July.  The Conference Board’s confidence index dropped to 70.2
from a revised 71.6 reading in February that was higher than
initially reported, figures from the New York-based private
research group showed today. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a decrease to 70.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  