-- Treasuries Climb as U.S. Auctions $35 Billion of Two-Year Notes
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-03-27T21:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/treasuries-rise-as-u-s-sells-35-billion-of-two-year-notes.html
     March 27 (Bloomberg) --  Treasuries (USGG3YR)  rose as the highest pre-
auction yields since July spurred stronger-than-average demand
at a government sale of $35 billion in two-year securities and
reports showed declines in  consumer confidence  and  home prices .  The offering drew a yield of 0.340 percent, compared with a
forecast of 0.349 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of seven of
the  Federal Reserve ’s 21 primary dealers. The U.S. will sell $64
billion in five- and seven-year notes tomorrow and the next day.
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today policy makers don’t rule
out any further options to boost economic growth.  “The auction went very well, and should extend to the rest
of the week’s auctions given the sentiment,” said  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate strategist in New York at BNP Paribas
Securities SA, which as a primary dealer is obliged to bid at
Treasury offerings. “There is less risk appetite, which is
beneficial for bonds. Going into quarter-end and month-end,
there is more reluctance to take on risk position because people
want to play it safe.”  The  yield  on the 10-year note dropped six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 2.18 percent at 5:37 p.m.  New York 
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It has fallen
21 basis points in March, headed for the biggest monthly gain
since December 2010. The price of the 2 percent securities
maturing in February 2022 advanced 18/32, or $5.63 per $1,000
face amount, to 98 3/8.  Current  two-year note  yields dropped two basis points to
0.32 percent, a two-week low. Two-year notes being sold today
yielded 0.345 percent in pre-auction trading.  Below Moving Average  Benchmark 10-year yields fell back below their 200-day
moving average today, indicating this month’s slump in bond
prices may be coming to a close. The yields dropped as low as
2.1729 percent in New York, compared with today’s 200-day moving
average of 2.1805 percent, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. The yields rose above the average on March 14 for the
first time since July.  “This idea that the bond rally is dead or high yields
await investors imminently is incorrect,”  Dan Greenhaus , chief
global strategist at the broker-dealer BTIG LLC in New York,
said in a telephone interview. “As today shows, not everybody
believes that the bond bear market began yesterday.”  Treasuries fell yesterday as Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
buoyed investor risk appetite by saying accommodative policy is
still needed to reduce joblessness.  No Tightening  “They’re going to continue to be very accommodative until
unemployment really comes down, which has opened the eyes of
investors that there’s not going to be any tightening from this
Fed,”  Brian Edmonds , head of  interest rates  at the primary
dealer Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “That’s the correction that we’ve seen.”  Bernanke said in a broadcast interview scheduled to air
later today that economic recovery in the U.S. isn’t assured.  “It’s far too early to declare victory,” Bernanke said,
according to a transcript of an interview with ABC News anchor
Diane Sawyer provided by the network. “The recent news has been
good. But I think we need to be cautious and make sure this is
sustainable.”  Another round of debt purchases remains “on the table,” he
said. “We don’t take any options off the table,” he said.  The 10-year break-even rate, a gauge of the outlook for
consumer prices over the next decade derived from the yield
difference between 10-year notes and Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, decreased for a fifth day, the longest
since August. It touched 2.32 percentage points after reaching a
seven-month high of 2.45 percentage points on March 20. The
average over the past year is 2.19.  Volume Surges  The volume of Treasury trades handled through ICAP Plc, the
biggest broker between banks, climbed for the first time in four
days, reaching about $286 billion today. It fell yesterday to
about $160 billion, the lowest level since Jan. 9.  At today’s two-year note auction, the  bid-to-cover ratio ,
which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of
securities offered, was 3.69, versus an average of 3.53 for the
past 10 sales.  Indirect (USB2IBA%)  bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 34.3 percent of the notes, compared
with an average of 32.1 percent for the past 10 sales. Direct
bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place their bids
directly with the Treasury, purchased 21.4 percent of the notes,
the most since April 2010, versus an average of 13.3 percent at
the past 10 sales.  The Treasury will sell $35 billion of five-year notes
tomorrow and $29 billion of seven-year debt on March 29.  Dudley on Europe  Turmoil in global financial markets continues “to pose
significant downside risks to the economic outlook,” Fed Bank
of New York President  William Dudley  said. While  Europe  has made
progress tackling its debt crisis, if economic conditions in the
region were to “weaken significantly,” demand for U.S. exports
would drop, he said today in testimony to a House Financial
Services subcommittee.  Treasuries have lost 1.4 percent in 2012, their biggest
quarterly decline since the last three months of 2010, according
to indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said today
continued credit expansion by central banks will produce
accelerating global inflation and slower growth.  Gross, the founder of Pimco, said in his monthly investment
outlook on Pimco’s website that the world’s bigger manager of
bond funds favors shorter-duration and inflation-protected debt
as well as dividend-paying equities with a preference for
developing markets.  Thirty-year bonds rose as the Fed bought $1.97 billion of
Treasuries today due from February 2036 to May 2041 as part of a
plan to cap borrowing costs by replacing $400 billion of shorter
maturities in its holdings with longer-term debt.  Long-Bond Yields  Long-bond  yields  fell four basis points to 3.30 percent and
touched 3.28 percent, the lowest level since March 14.  Treasuries rose earlier as the Standard & Poor’s/Case-
Shiller index of property values in 20 cities fell 3.8 percent
in January from a year earlier, after decreasing 4.1 percent in
December. Prices were little changed from the prior month, the
best performance since July.  The Conference Board’s  confidence index  dropped to 70.2
this month from a revised 71.6 reading in February, figures from
the New York-based private research group showed today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  