-- Redwood Sells Fifth Mortgage Bonds Since 2008 as Sales Thaw
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D e R e z a
-- 2012-03-28T14:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/redwood-sells-second-mortgage-bonds-of-2012-in-slow-sales-thaw.html
Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT)  sold bonds tied
to about $325 million of new home loans in the fifth offering of
securities without government backing since the market froze in
2008, according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  The company sold a $163.6 million, top-rated portion
yesterday to yield 1.8 percentage points more than benchmark
swap rates, said the person, who declined to be identified
without authorization. The  Mill Valley , California-based company
placed similar debt at a spread of 1.9 percentage points in its
first transaction this year in January.  Redwood’s offerings since the financial crisis, the only
ones in the market, have been backed by about $1.6 billion of
loans. Issuance peaked at $1.2 trillion in each of 2005 and 2006
before the market collapsed as foreclosures soared and home
values plunged. Government-supported programs and bank demand
restraining  interest rates  on loans are helping to erode the
potential profits for issuers that seek to make money from
retaining the lowest-ranking portions.  “We’ve reverse engineered a lot of the transactions and
prefer the return on equity, in terms of the risk-reward, of
pre-existing mortgage-backed securities,”  MFA Financial Inc. (MFA) 
President William Gorin said in a March 23 telephone interview.
His New York-based real estate investment trust buys both agency
mortgage bonds and non-agency debt lacking government backing.  May Be ‘Early’  The so-called credit enhancement, or protection against
defaults for investors, on the top-rated portion of the Redwood
deal fell to 7.2 percent from 8.3 percent in the January
offering, according to reports from  Fitch Ratings . That change,
and tighter spreads, potentially increase the returns to the
lowest-ranked slices.  “We believe mortgage securitization will play a very
significant role” as the U.S. seeks to reduce the market share
of government-supported bond guarantors Fannie Mae and  Freddie
Mac , said  Michael McMahon , managing director of  investor
relations  at Redwood, which is also a REIT. “We may be a bit
early in rebuilding our conduit, but we have made significant
progress in the number of clients we’re buying loans from and
we’re very happy with the results.”  McMahon declined to comment on the specific transaction
yesterday. The offering was managed by Barclays Plc, after
Credit Suisse Group AG led the previous three sales, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Redwood specializes in so-called jumbo mortgages, which are
larger than what’s allowed in government-supported programs,
currently as much as $729,750 for single-family properties in
some areas. For Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans with the lowest
costs for borrowers with 20 percent down payments, limits range
from $417,000 in most places, to $625,500.  Loan-to-Value  Government-supported lending accounted for 88 percent of
new mortgages and home-equity loans last year, with other debt
of more than $417,000 representing 8.7 percent of the total,
according to newsletter  Inside Mortgage Finance . That jumbo
share rose to 9.3 percent last quarter as  Fannie Mae  and Freddie
Mac loan limits fell.  In yesterday’s deal, the underlying 30-year fixed-rate
loans have balances that average $895,998, loan-to-value ratios
of 63.5 percent and borrower credit scores that average 768 on a
scale from 300 to 850, according to a “pre-sale” report by
Kroll Bond Rating Agency.  Kroll and Fitch assigned top grades to $305 million of the
debt, making it more attractive to investors such as banks,
which hold loss less capital against higher-ranked securities.  The spreads weren’t attractive enough to entice TCW Group
Inc. to consider buying, said Bryan Whalen, co-head of mortgage
bonds at the Los Angeles-based firm, which oversees $124 billion
of assets.  “We’re not really ratings-driven, so we find better value
in the legacy paper,” he said in a March 23 telephone
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net , or
Christopher DeReza in New York at 
 cdereza1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  