-- Resolution Falls in Trading After Missing 2011 Estimates
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-03-27T16:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/resolution-falls-in-trading-after-missing-2011-estimates-1-.html
Resolution Ltd. (RSL) , Clive Cowdery’s
insurance investment firm, said full-year profit missed
analysts’ estimates after stripping out a one-time accounting
gain. The shares fell the most in four months.  The company’s Friends Life division’s operating profit rose
to 681 million pounds ($1.1 billion) in 2011 from 275 million
pounds a year earlier, the Guernsey, Channel Islands-based firm
said today in a statement. Excluding 404 million pounds of one-
time gains, that missed the 559 million-pound  estimate  of six
analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  An accounting change allowing the firm to book “profit
that would have otherwise been recognized in later years” made
up about half of the exceptional gains, Finance Director Jim Newman said on a call with reporters today. The rest of the
gains were due to cost-cutting and lower claims, he said.  Resolution, which was started in 2008 to buy and merge
financial firms using money raised from money managers, built
Friends Life by acquiring life insurers  Friends Provident ,  Axa
SA (CS) ’s U.K. life operations and Bupa Health Assurance Ltd.  The stock dropped 2.4 percent to 268.2 pence in London
trading, its biggest fall since Nov. 23., valuing the company at
3.7 billion pounds.  “At first glance a slightly worse than expected set of
results,”  Marcus Barnard , a London-based analyst at Oriel
Securities Ltd. with a hold rating on the stock, wrote in a note
to clients. Operating profit “benefited from 404 million pounds
of reserving changes and one-off items, which compares with
expectations of 229 million pounds.”  Loss After Tax  The company made a loss after tax of 31 million pounds,
compared with a profit of 820 million pounds a year earlier, it
said in the statement. Profit in 2010 was boosted by so-called
fair value gains on its acquisitions, which are reduced in
subsequent years, Newman said.  The European debt crisis and uncertainty about the European
Union’s solvency rules have hampered Resolution’s ability to
sell the combined firm, which it plans to offload in the next
two years.  Resolution may divide Friends Life into a company writing
new policies and another managing its books of old policies in
run-off by early 2014, it said in the statement today. The two
publicly traded companies would be separate, it said.  “We are determined to realize an exit for our shareholders
and we don’t want to rely entirely on market driven events so we
need to have self-managed option,” Chief Executive Officer John
Tiner said on the call with reporters.  The plan is “hardly earth-shattering,”  Eamonn Flanagan , a
Liverpool-based analyst at  Shore Capital Group Ltd. (SGR)  with a hold
rating on the stock, wrote in a note to clients today. It
contributed to a “subdued results statement” with “the merger
and acquisition market hardly conducive to the group’s plans to
drive the acquisition strategy,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 