-- Rio, BHP Lose Faith in Diamonds Even as Prices Rise: Commodities
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-03-28T16:37:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/rio-bhp-lose-faith-in-diamonds-even-as-prices-rise-commodities.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  and  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  are looking to exit the diamond industry even as prices
head for a fourth year of gains, because they see little
prospect of repeating the dominance they hold in iron ore.  Rio is considering options for its  diamond mines  because
they may no longer fit with strategy and they don’t have the
required scale, the London-based company said yesterday. BHP
Billiton Ltd. has sought bids for its diamond assets.  BHP and Rio, which together accounted for about 16 percent
of global diamond production by value in 2010, have failed to
match the output of industry leaders  De Beers  and OAO Alrosa of
 Russia . That contrasts with the position in  iron ore , where
along with  Brazil ’s Vale SA, they have a market share of about
63 percent, according to estimates from Bloomberg Industries.  “They can’t get the scale they want,” said Ed Sterck, an
analyst at BMO Capital Markets. “Diamonds don’t really fit with
the modus operandi of the big diversified majors and it’s always
been a bit of an anomaly that they’ve stuck with it.”  Rough-diamond prices rose 24 percent last year after two
consecutive annual gains of 32 percent as producers struggled to
keep pace with consumption. That advance could be prolonged as
stagnant production fails to satisfy surging demand from China
and  India .  The use of diamonds may grow at double the pace of supply
through 2020 because of an expanding middle class in the two
Asian countries, according to Bain & Co., the consulting firm.  Botswana Gems  De Beers, 45 percent-owned by London-based  Anglo American
Plc (AAL)  and the operator of the world’s biggest diamond mine in
Botswana, produced 31.3 million carats in 2011. Rio produced
11.4 million carats last year.  The review comes after Rio last month took a $344 million
one-time charge for the diamond business to reflect higher costs
for the $2.1 billion expansion of the Argyle mine in  Australia .
The company, which last year generated 78 percent of its net
income from iron ore, is expanding output of the steelmaking raw
material in Australia’s Pilbara region more than 50 percent by
next year.  “The diamonds market outlook is very positive, with demand
growing strongly and lack of new discoveries limiting supply,”
Harry Kenyon-Slaney, chief executive officer of Rio’s diamonds
and minerals unit, said in yesterday’s statement. “We have a
valuable, high-quality diamonds business, but given its scale we
are reviewing whether we can create more value through a
different ownership structure.”  Canada, Zimbabwe  Rio operates the Argyle mine and has a 60 percent stake in
Diavik in  Canada  and a 78 percent holding in Murowa in  Zimbabwe .
Rio unearthed a 12.76 carat pink diamond at the Argyle mine last
month, the biggest ever discovered in Australia.  “Despite the admission of a strong outlook on diamond
market fundamentals, it seems clear that the division is more of
a distraction than material benefit,” said Cailey Barker, an
analyst at Numis Securities Ltd.  BHP, based in Melbourne, announced its review in November,
saying some or all of its diamond assets, including the Ekati
mine in Canada, may be sold because they have limited growth and
may no longer fit its strategy of investing in “large, long-
life” assets.  Harry Winston Diamond Corp. (HWD)  and groups led by KKR & Co. and
Apollo Global Management LLC are in talks to buy the Ekati mine,
two people with knowledge of the matter said this month.  ‘Lacks Scale’  Diamond producers have struggled to find new large mines to
replace aging assets. Production at many of the world’s biggest
mines is falling as supplies of more accessible diamonds near
the surface are depleted. De Beers’s Orapa mine in Botswana
began output in 1971, while its Jwaneng project, the world’s
largest diamond mine by production value, and Rio’s Argyle
started in 1982. The last major mine to enter production was
Rio’s Diavik in 2003.  The diamond business “lacks scale for  Rio Tinto , requiring
the company either get bigger or get out,” Deutsche Bank AG
analysts told clients yesterday. “Getting big enough to be
meaningful for Rio Tinto will be difficult, so divestment
becomes a logical option.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  