-- Rio Tinto Weighing Sale of Diamond Assets as Part of Review
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-03-27T06:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/rio-tinto-considering-sale-of-diamond-assets-as-part-of-review.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s third-
largest mining company, is considering selling its diamond
assets because the mines may no longer fit its strategy, joining
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  in a similar sale process.  The company has begun a review of the business, which may
take “some time,’ London-based Rio said today in a statement.
The unit may be worth $2.56 billion, according to a valuation
this month by Bank of America Corp.  The review comes after Rio last month took a $344 million
one-time charge for the diamond business to reflect higher costs
for the $2.1 billion expansion of the Argyle mine. The company,
which last year generated 78 percent of its net income from  iron
ore , is expanding output of the steelmaking raw material in
Australia’s Pilbara region by more than 50 percent by next year.  ‘‘It makes sense to divest the diamond business because
they need to focus on their increased spending on the other
bigger projects,” said Stan Shamu, a Melbourne-based market
strategist at IG Markets. “Rio’s main business is iron ore and
copper.”  Rio gained 0.6 percent to close at A$64.10 in Sydney
trading, while the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index added 0.9
percent. BHP rose 0.7 percent.  “We have a valuable, high-quality diamonds business, but
given its scale we are reviewing whether we can create more
value through a different ownership structure,” Harry Kenyon- Slaney, chief executive officer of Rio’s diamonds and minerals
unit, said in the statement. “We regularly review our
businesses to ensure they remain aligned with  Rio Tinto ’s
strategy of operating large, long-life, expandable assets.”  ‘Cash Drains’  Rio and BHP should spin off their diamond units because
they are “major cash drains,” Citigroup Inc. said in a report
in September. “They are cash-intensive and if floated they
would have a higher multiple than currently exists within a
larger mining house,” the Sept. 14 report said.  BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, announced its
review in November, saying some or all of its diamond assets,
including the Ekati mine in  Canada , may be sold because they
have limited growth and may no longer fit its strategy of
investing in “large, long-life” assets.  Rio operates the Argyle mine in  Australia  and has a 60
percent stake in Diavik in Canada and a 78 percent holding in
Murowa in Zimbabwe. Rio’s  diamond business  accounted for 2
percent of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, Bank of America’s  Peter O’Connor  said in a March
19 report. Diamonds delivered net earnings of $10 million last
year, according to Rio’s annual results.  Diamond Price  Diamond prices jumped 22 percent last year, as measured by
the Rapaport Diamond Trade Index.  De Beers , the supplier of
about a third of the world’s rough diamonds, reported a 27
percent increase in sales last year on higher demand for the
luxury gems in the U.S.,  China  and  India .  Harry Winston Diamond Corp. (HW)  and groups led by KKR & Co. and
Apollo Global Management LLC are in talks to buy BHP’s Ekati
diamond mine in Canada, said two people with knowledge of the
matter this month. The sale may fetch $500 million to $750
million and an agreement could be struck in about a month, said
the people, who declined to be identified as the process is
private.  The Ekati project, which produces about 11 percent of the
world’s diamonds by value, according to BHP’s website, is near
the Rio’s Diavik mine, 40 percent-owned by  Harry Winston .  “Things like diamonds and also the industrial minerals
really are just a distraction more than anything for Rio,” said
 Mark Taylor , an analyst at Morningstar Inc. “It’s very
difficult to say who might buy the assets. They’re not really
expandable, not world-class assets.”  Rio may spin off the assets into a separate listing and
maintain a stake, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  