-- Rio Tinto Opens India Center to Roll Out New Mining Technologies
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-03-27T08:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/rio-tinto-opens-india-center-to-roll-out-new-mining-technologies.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s third-
largest mining company, opened an innovation center in  India  to
help roll out new mining technologies including driverless
trucks and drills to boost efficiency and productivity.  The center, a joint venture with iGATE Patni in Pune, in
western Maharashtra state, takes advantage of the large number
of skilled engineers in India, and will help with the
implementation of Rio’s mining innovations across different
regions and product groups, Karen Halbert, a spokeswoman for
London-based Rio, said by phone.  Rio last month announced plans to spend $518 million on the
first driverless long-distance trains to haul  iron ore  from its
 Western Australia  mines to ports, with the first automated train
scheduled to run in 2014. The group already operates five
driverless iron ore haulage trucks in the Pilbara region.  “This partnership will enable us to move our innovations
from concept stage to reality more efficiently through the work
of a dedicated team of specialized engineers,” John McGagh,
Rio’s head of innovation, said in an e-mailed statement. The
center, which opened today, will help adapt automation systems
already in place in Western Australia’s Pilbara “across our
network of mines.”  Rio’s joint venture partner iGATE Patni is a joint brand of
 iGATE Corp.  and  Patni Computer Systems Ltd. (PATNI) , according to the
statement.  Mining companies are seeking to boost productivity as
mineral grades fall and ore bodies are located in increasingly
remote areas, while the industry faces a worker shortage as
companies expand operations globally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  