-- Romney Gains Backers as Party Leaders Push to End Race
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-03-27T15:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/romney-gains-backers-as-party-leaders-push-to-end-race.html
Republican leaders across the
party’s ideological spectrum are lining up behind front-runner
 Mitt Romney  in an escalating effort to conclude the presidential
primary battle and close ranks before the general election.  Even as Rick Santorum vowed from the steps of the U.S.
 Supreme Court (1000L)  to continue his challenge to Romney, calls for an
end to the contest echoed yesterday across Capitol Hill. Some
Republicans fear a prolonged fight could damage their party’s
prospects in November.  “Every day we continue to have a protracted primary is one
less day you can get prepared for the big race in November,”
Senator Johnny Isakson, a Georgia Republican who hasn’t endorsed
a candidate, said in an interview.  A series of elected officials, business leaders and party
activists have raised similar concerns in recent days, urging
Republicans to unite around Romney, the former  Massachusetts 
governor, to avoid further damaging the standing of their
nominee against President Barack Obama in the November election.  “With all due respect to my fellow conservative leaders
determined to oppose Governor Romney, that is not a worthy
endeavor,”  Al Cardenas , chairman of the American Conservative
Union, wrote in an opinion article for the Daily Caller  website 
yesterday. “It’s time to unite behind a worthy presidential
candidate, build our organization and raise the resources
necessary to defeat the liberal electoral machine.”  ‘Grueling Primary’  The American Conservative Union, founded almost 50 years
ago by magazine editor and syndicated columnist William F. Buckley Jr., sponsors the annual Conservative Political Action
Conference in  Washington  that draws an array of Republican
activists.  Joining Cardenas in backing Romney were Senator  Mike Lee  of
 Utah , a favorite of anti-tax Tea Party activists; Representative
Kevin McCarthy of  California , the third-ranking House
Republican; and Carly Fiorina, former chief executive officer of
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   “After a long and grueling primary, it is clear that Mitt Romney is the best candidate to face President Obama,” McCarthy
said in a statement that called on Republicans to “unite and
work together” to win the White House.  Romney is well within reach of securing his party’s
nomination, leading his rivals in delegates, fundraising and
endorsements.  Betting on Romney  After winning a 12-point victory in the March 20 Illinois
primary, Romney has 568 delegates of the 1,144 needed to secure
the nomination, according to an Associated Press tally. Santorum
trails with 273, followed by former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich 
with 135 and Representative Ron Paul of  Texas  with 50.  “If I was asked to put $100 down today, I’d be putting it
on Romney,” Senator Dean Heller, a Nevada Republican who
doesn’t plan to endorse a candidate, said in an interview.  Though he lags in delegates, Santorum has won 11 of the 32
primary contests, largely on the strength of his support among
lower-income and born-again Christian voters. His most recent
win came in Louisiana’s March 24 primary, in which he defeated
Romney by 22 percentage points.  That victory fueled Santorum’s effort to continue his
campaign. Although most of April’s primaries are in regions
favorable to Romney, Santorum is seeking a breakthrough in
 Wisconsin . The state’s Republican electorate is more rural and
working-class than in most of the Midwest, and he plans to
campaign there during much of the next week as he seeks a win in
the April 3 contest.  Santorum Push  “Of course, Governor Romney’s supporters are going to want
everybody out of the way,” Santorum said yesterday, dismissing
the calls for him to withdraw from the race.  Romney, 65, is the heavy favorite to win the other two
April 3 primaries, in Maryland and Washington, D.C. The next
round of ballots will be cast on April 24 in  Rhode Island (BARI) ,
 Connecticut ,  New York  and Delaware -- where Romney is favored --
and in  Pennsylvania , which Santorum, 53, represented in the
House and Senate.  Santorum is increasingly hitting Romney on what he and some
other Republicans argue is the front-runner’s main political
vulnerability: his support as governor of Massachusetts of a
state law similar to the health-care measure Obama pushed
through Congress.  ‘Worst Candidate’  Two years after distaste for the federal overhaul that
helped fuel the Tea Party surge that swept Republicans to a U.S.
House majority, Santorum contends that, with Romney as the
party’s nominee, no similar burst of energy will help to topple
Obama.  Santorum appeared outside the  Supreme Court  yesterday to
press that case after the justices heard the first day of
arguments on whether to overturn the health-care law. He said
Romney is “the worst person” to try to debate the topic
against Obama.  “He’s the worst candidate to go against  Barack Obama  on
the most important issue of the day,” Santorum said, echoing
comments he frequently makes on the campaign trail.  Gingrich, 68, and Paul, 76, have also vowed to remain in
the race. In an interview with  CNN  yesterday, Gingrich repeated
his description of Romney as “the weakest front-runner in
modern times.”  Internal Strife  Republican lawmakers said the internal strife among
Republican candidates could hurt the eventual nominee.  “This election is either going to be about Obama, or it’s
going to be about our nominee,” Senator Pat Roberts, a Kansas
Republican who hasn’t backed any of the candidates, said
yesterday in an interview. “The key is to make it about Obama,
who must be forced to defend his record, as opposed to pointing
fingers at the nominee. The sooner we get to that point, the
better off we’ll be.”  Senator  Ron Johnson , a Wisconsin Republican, said yesterday
in an interview that “the conclusion that most people are
making” is that Romney will be the nominee.  The fresh round of attacks came as Romney escalates their
efforts to rally Republicans around his candidacy.  During a campaign appearance in California yesterday,
Romney touted his recent endorsements, including last week from
former Florida Governor Jeb Bush, the son and brother of former
presidents.  Sole Appearance  The event at a medical device company in San Diego was the
sole public appearance planned for Romney during a four-day
visit to the state. Most of his time will be spent at
fundraisers.  During a March 22 fundraising trip to Washington, D.C.,
Romney spent several hours making private appeals to Republican
lawmakers.  His efforts earned praise -- though not quite a full
endorsement -- from Senator Jim DeMint of  South Carolina (BKSC) , a
leader of the Tea Party movement.  “What we got from him is a sense of urgency that our
country’s in trouble and we need some real leadership,” DeMint
told reporters.  Some Romney supporters have gone even further, depicting
the Republican race as essentially over.  “Everybody in the Republican Party of significance
understands this is over except for Rick Santorum,” said former
New Hampshire Governor John Sununu.  Santorum shot back, decrying what he termed an “elitist
pattern” by Romney’s campaign.  “Half the country hasn’t even voted yet,” Santorum said
in a statement. “Quite frankly, it’s disturbing to hear that
the Romney camp feels those people who support someone else are
insignificant.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  