-- PT Borneo’s Tan Named Bumi Chairman After Rothschild-Bakrie Spat
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-03-27T16:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/rothschild-ousted-as-bumi-co-chairman-as-tan-takes-over-post.html
Samin Tan, president director of
Indonesian coal supplier PT Borneo Lumbung Energi & Metal, was
appointed chairman of  Bumi Plc (BUMI)  as  Nathaniel Rothschild  stepped
down as co-chairman following a boardroom dispute last year.  Tan, whose PT Borneo bought a 23.8 percent stake in Bumi in
January from Indonesia’s Bakrie Group, was appointed yesterday,
Bumi said today in a statement. Rothschild, who helped found
London-listed Bumi last year, will remain on the board as a non-
independent director. Chief Executive Officer Ari Hudaya was
replaced by Nalin Rathod.  Ties between Rothschild and then chairman Indra Bakrie
became frayed last year after Rothschild issued public a letter
to Hudaya calling for a “radical cleaning up” of the Bakrie
family’s Indonesian unit, PT Bumi Resources. The two biggest
shareholders, the Bakries and PT Borneo, last month called for
an extraordinary general meeting to oust Rothschild, Hudaya and
others before dropping the plan less than two weeks later.  “Bumi is a textbook self-help story, a stock with a
complex holding structure and an oppressive debt burden, but
underpinned by tier-one operating assets,”  Richard Knights , an
analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd., wrote in a note yesterday.  The delivery of a clear corporate strategy by Tan “could
go a long way to putting the board disputes of 2011 behind the
company and begin re-rating,” Knights said.  Bumi rose 0.1 percent to close at 697.5 pence in London.  The company said it’s considering restructuring to simplify
the group. A potential merger of PT Berau Coal Energy and Bumi
is being studied, Tan and Rathod said on a conference call.  Ground to Cover  Bumi also said today it appointed Scott Merrillees as chief
financial officer to replace Andrew Beckham. “The management
changes will strengthen our team and also increase the presence
of key executives in  London ,” Tan said in the statement.  The company today reported full-year underlying earnings of
$33 million and posted a net loss of $319 million. Underlying
profit in the first half was $54 million.  “The group has some ground to cover to establish
confidence with investors in the business, starting with a
revamped executive team,”  Canaccord Genuity  said in a note.  Rothschild, the only son of U.K. financier  Jacob Rothschild , raised 707.2 million pounds ($1.1 billion) with
former  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  executive  James Campbell  in July 2010
under plans to buy a mining asset for as much as $5 billion.  Bumi completed a $3 billion deal last year to acquire
stakes in two coal producers in  Indonesia , the world’s largest
exporter of power station coal. Bumi owns about 85 percent of
Berau and a 29 percent stake in PT Bumi Resources.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  