-- Russia to Ditch Friends of Syria Meeting, Warns of Meddling
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-03-27T15:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/russia-to-ditch-friends-of-syria-meeting-warns-of-meddling-1-.html
Russia  said it won’t take part in
the second meeting of nations in the Friends of Syria group in
Istanbul on April 1 and criticized the effort for undermining
 Kofi Annan ’s mission to broker peace in the country.  “Its participants aren’t looking for dialogue that could
put an end to the conflict,” Foreign Ministry spokesman
Alexander Lukashevich told reporters in Moscow today, adding
that Russia skipped the group’s Feb. 24 meeting in Tunis for the
same reason. “On the contrary, it may pave the way for external
interference.”  Efforts to resolve the yearlong conflict have so far
failed, with Russia and  China  twice blocking United Nations
Security Council resolutions aimed at removing President Bashar al-Assad.  Syria  accepted the six-point peace plan proposed by
Annan, a joint UN-Arab League envoy, who urged Assad to
immediately implement provisions including a cease-fire.  The Syrian National Council, the leading alliance of
opposition groups, said it will lobby Friends of Syria for
weapons and recognition when the group of about 70 nations
reconvenes in Istanbul.  Russian President Dmitry Medvedev today said it’s
“shortsighted” to think that ousting Assad will resolve the
country’s conflict. Annan’s mission to Syria is the “last
chance” to prevent civil war in the country, Medvedev told
reporters today at the conclusion of a two-day nuclear security
summit in Seoul.  Stronger international efforts are needed “now more than
ever” to support Annan’s mission, Lukashevich said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in  Seoul  at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  