-- Russia Stocks Rise for Third Day as Urals Crude Near 1-Week High
-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-03-27T08:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/russia-stocks-rise-for-third-day-as-urals-crude-near-1-week-high.html
Russian stocks advanced for a third
day as Urals crude, the country’s main export, traded near a
one-week high.  The 30-stock  Micex (MICEX)  index climbed 0.1 percent to 1,566.07 as
of 11:57 a.m. in Moscow, after earlier rising as much as 0.6
percent and retreating 0.2 percent. Power distributor IDGC
Holding rose to the highest price since March 20, while United
Co. Rusal, the world’s biggest aluminum producer, dropped for a
fourth day.  Russian stocks are set to extend their best start to a year
since 2008 in the second quarter as tensions with  Iran  drive oil
prices higher and  Vladimir Putin  accedes to the presidency,
according to Societe Generale SA and  Alfa Bank . Urals crude, the
main Russian oil blend, climbed 0.4 percent to $122.36 per
barrel yesterday, the highest price in a week, after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said continued monetary
stimulus will be needed to bolster employment in the world’s
largest economy.  “People look at  Russia  as an oil country, if everything is
good with oil, the market will grow,” Natalia Orlova, the
Moscow-based chief economist at Alfa Bank, Russia’s biggest
private lender, said by phone. “Domestic reforms may add to
that growth, but the main market growth will be determined by
 oil prices .”  Rosneft, Lukoil  OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  and  OAO Lukoil (LKOH) , Russia’s two largest oil
companies, gained 0.1 percent to 212.55 rubles and 0.1 percent
to 1,850.40 rubles respectively. Smaller rival OAO
Surgutneftegas jumped 0.6 percent to 31.18 rubles.  The dollar-denominated RTS index was little changed at
1,713.60. The gauge will reach 1,900 by the end of June, Alfa’s
Orlova said.  Brent crude , the oil type that underpins prices for
Urals, will rise as much as 1.8 percent to $127.50 in the second
quarter of 2012, according to Paris-based Societe Generale.  “We still expect oil to have an upside at this point, and
that could really keep driving the Russian market up,” said
Rebecca Cheong, a New-York-based equity-derivatives strategist
at  Societe Generale . “In the short term, oil will have more to
do with keeping the market up than Putin’s reforms. Iranian
production and exports are expected to fall on European and U.S.
sanctions that should go into effect by July 1.”  Iran, the second-biggest oil producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 3.45 million barrels a
day last month, the lowest level since September 2002, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. and European sanctions aimed
at forcing Iran to halt its nuclear program have spurred threats
from the Persian Gulf nation to shut the  Strait of Hormuz , a
transit route for a fifth of the world’s oil.  IDGC Holding rose 2 percent to 3.54 rubles. Rusal lost 0.5
percent to 216.60 rubles. OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender,
gained 0.4 percent to 100.42 rubles.  Third Term  Putin will start his third term as president on May 7
following a campaign in which he pledged to boost pensions and
support for small business as well as reverse “repressive”
state policies. The former KGB officer also said he’d continue
with plans to reduce government stakes in state-run companies
and tackle corruption.  “In the second quarter we’re going to get a lot more of
the very positive domestic momentum, new agenda, new promises,
some delivery of political reforms, measures against corruption,
these are all taken positively by investors,”  Chris Weafer ,
chief strategist at Troika Dialog, the investment banking unit
of state-run lender OAO Sberbank, said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s New York headquarters yesterday.  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, climbed 2.4 percent to $32.09 yesterday,
the biggest one-day advance since March 8. The RTS Volatility
Index, which measures expected swings in the index futures, fell
0.7 percent to 31.61.  The Micex is the cheapest of the benchmark indexes for BRIC
countries, trading at about 6.1 times earnings estimated by
analysts. That compares with about 9.8 for the Shanghai
Composite Index and 15.3 for the BSE India Sensitive Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  