-- Russian Stocks Retreat From One-Week High on U.S. Economy Data
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-03-27T16:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/russia-stocks-move-between-gains-and-losses-on-u-s-data-crude.html
Russian stocks retreated from a
one-week high as oil, the country’s main export revenue earner,
fell after confidence among U.S. consumers dropped and shares of
energy companies retreated.  The 30-stock  Micex (MICEX)  index slid 0.7 percent to 1,554.28 at
the close in Moscow, erasing an earlier gain of as much as 0.6
percent. OAO Rosneft, the country’s biggest oil producer, lost
0.9 percent, while OAO Severstal, the Russian steelmaker,
retreated 1.8 percent.  The Conference Board’s consumer confidence index in the
U.S. dropped to 70.2 in March from a revised 71.6 reading in
February that was higher than initially reported. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a
decrease to 70. Urals crude,  Russia ’s main export earner,
snapped two days of gains, sliding 0.2 percent to $122.10 a
barrel.  “Investors appear to be trying to push the market higher
toward the end of the quarter on any more-or-less positive
news,” Slava Smolyaninov and Leonid Slipchenko, analysts at
UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow, wrote in an e-mailed note.  Russian stocks rose the most in two weeks yesterday after
Deutsche Bank AG said former Yukos Oil Co. billionaire  Mikhail
Khodorkovsky  has a “50-50” chance of winning an early release
and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said continued
monetary stimulus will be needed to bolster employment in the
world’s largest economy.  Driving Market Up  The RTS Index fell 0.8 percent to 1,699.68 today. The
dollar-denominated gauge will reach 1,900 by the end of June,
according to  Alfa Bank .  Brent crude , the oil type that underpins
prices for Urals, will rise as much as 1.8 percent to $127.50 in
the second quarter of 2012, according to Paris-based  Societe
Generale  SA.  “We still expect oil to have an upside at this point, and
that could really keep driving the Russian market up,” said
Rebecca Cheong, a New-York-based equity-derivatives strategist
at Societe Generale. “In the short term, oil will have more to
do with keeping the market up than Putin’s reforms. Iranian
production and exports are expected to fall on European and U.S.
sanctions that should go into effect by July 1.”  Iran, the second-biggest oil producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 3.45 million barrels a
day last month, the lowest level since September 2002, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. and European sanctions aimed
at forcing  Iran  to halt its nuclear program have spurred threats
from the Persian Gulf nation to shut the  Strait of Hormuz , a
transit route for a fifth of the world’s oil.  Third Term  Rusal, the world’s biggest aluminum maker, lost 0.3 percent
to 216.88 rubles.  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , Russia’s largest lender, fell
2.2 percent to 97.84 rubles.  Putin will start his third term as president on May 7
following a campaign in which he pledged to boost pensions and
support for small business as well as reverse “repressive”
state policies. The former KGB officer also said he would
continue with plans to reduce government stakes in state-run
companies and tackle corruption.  “In the second quarter we’re going to get a lot more of
the very positive domestic momentum, new agenda, new promises,
some delivery of political reforms, measures against corruption,
these are all taken positively by investors,”  Chris Weafer ,
chief strategist at Troika Dialog, the investment banking unit
of state-run lender OAO Sberbank, said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s New York headquarters yesterday.  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, fell 1.3 percent to $31.68. The  RTS
Volatility Index (RTSVX) , which measures expected swings in the index
futures, dropped 3.1 percent to 30.87.  The Micex is the cheapest of the benchmark indexes for BRIC
countries, trading at about 6.1 times earnings estimated by
analysts. That compares with about 9.8 for the Shanghai
Composite Index and 15.3 for the BSE India Sensitive Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  