-- Sarkozy Gets Little Boost From Handling of Toulouse Killings
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-03-28T11:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/sarkozy-gets-no-poll-boost-from-handling-of-toulouse-killings.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ,
who scored high marks in surveys for his handling of the
Toulouse-area shootings this month, has failed to translate them
into decisive support as elections approach.  Socialist challenger  Francois Hollande , whose lead narrowed
in the past week, would still beat Sarkozy by 54 percent to 46
percent in the run-off May 6, three separate polls yesterday and
one today showed. Three of the polls showed the gap narrowing
from 56 percent to 44 percent two weeks ago.  The polls were the first after police on March 22 killed
Mohamed Merah a self-declared jihadist who murdered three
paratroopers, and slayed three children and a French-Israeli
teacher at a Jewish school in a nine-day shooting spree.
Although the French were gripped by the live coverage of Merah’s
32-hour siege before he was brought down in a shootout, the
polls show that their main focus when it comes to voting remains
on jobs and salaries.  “There’s that old electoral expression ‘It’s the economy,
stupid,’ and in the current crisis the economic situation trumps
everything else,” William Keylor, a professor of modern French
history at  Boston University , said in a phone interview. “It
was an isolated event, and the public is not going to make a big
switch in their intentions.”  The Labor Ministry said March 26 that the number of French
jobseekers rose in February for the 10th month to 2.87 million,
a 12-year high. The  unemployment rate  is near 9.8 percent.  No Insecurity  A BVA poll yesterday showed that only 8 percent of the
electorate listed ’’security’’ as a major influence on their
voting decision, well behind purchasing power at 42 percent and
unemployment at 30 percent. Eighty-one percent said the Toulouse
events weren’t an important element in their voting choice.  The BVA poll for newspaper Le Parisien, involved 890 people
questioned on March 26. No margin of error was given.  “There isn’t always a correlation between the emotional
and media impact of an event and its political impact,” Gael Sliman, director of polling company BVA, said in e-mailed
comments. “Insecurity remains a secondary preoccupation.”  Still, Sarkozy has announced a series of security-related
measures since the Toulouse events. Seeking to combat the
radicalization of Muslim youth, he said he’ll ban hard-line
clerics from entering  France . He said he’ll criminalize
frequenting Internet sites of groups that support terrorism.  Terrorists  “The law considers those who frequent pedophilia sites to
be pedophiles, so we can consider those who frequent sites that
apologize for terrorism to be terrorists,” he has said at three
election rallies so far this week.  He speaks near Versailles this evening.  At the rallies, Sarkozy has condemned those who criticized
the police actions in Toulouse, and said France must better
control its borders. At the same time, he’s assured France’s
Muslim citizens they won’t be tarred by Merah’s actions.  “The dynamic is on our side,” Sarkozy said in an
interview with  Paris Match  published today. “My confidence
doesn’t come from the polls or the commentators. It comes from
the reaction of the French. I’ve never felt such a mobilization
of the French people.”  A poll released March 23 said 74 percent of the French
think Sarkozy had the “appropriate attitude” to the Toulouse
drama, compared with 56 percent for Hollande. Seventy-one
percent thought Sarkozy handled the situation well, according to
the TNS-Sofres poll that questioned 1,016 people.  Sarkozy is better rated by voters to handle security and
control immigration, while Hollande is seen as better able to
boost growth, create jobs, and boost salaries.  Secondary Issue  “The Toulouse events should have worked to Sarkozy’s
advantage but it hasn’t worked out that way,” Keylor said.  Sarkozy has blamed Socialist challenger Hollande for not
having voted the country’s most recent terror laws.  Hollande, who toured the island of  Corsica  over the
weekend, blamed Sarkozy for not having improved security during
his five-year mandate and promised to fight gangs and petty
criminals, who he said help feed terrorism with guns and money.  BVA’s Sliman said Sarkozy’s handicap is that the issues
that he’s better rated on are secondary issues for most French.  The first round of the election will be held on April 22,
with the top two candidates facing off in a second round May 6.  The three polls on voter intention released yesterday were
from Ifop, Ipsos, and  Harris Interactive .  Today’s poll was from Opinionway for Le Figaro magazine and
cable news channel LCI, and involved 1,148 people questioned
March 26-27, with a margin of error between 2 and 3 percentage
points.  Opinion Polls  The biweekly Ifop Fiducial poll for Europe 1 radio, Paris
Match and Public Senat was carried out March 22 to 25 among a
sample of 1,769 people. The margin of error is about 2.1
percentage points.  The Harris poll for La Chaine Parlementaire television
station involved 1,231 people questioned March 22 to 26. The
Ipsos poll for Le Monde questioned 978 people on March 23 and
24. No margin of error was given.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  