-- Sarkozy to Bar Radical Clerics as Toulouse Probe Expanded
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-03-27T10:49:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/sarkozy-to-bar-radical-muslim-clerics-as-toulouse-probe-expanded.html
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , seeking
to combat the radicalization of French Muslim youth, said he’ll
ban hard-line clerics from entering France as investigators
deepened a probe into whether the Toulouse killer acted alone.  Sarkozy’s response to the murders hasn’t helped him
narrow the gap against Socialist Francois Hollande, with the
presidential vote less than a month away, three polls today
showed. Sarkozy announced the ban measure as investigators
yesterday reviewed the activities of the killer’s brother
Abdelkader Merah before the attacks that left seven people in
the Toulouse area, including three Jewish children, dead.  Abdelkader helped his 23-year-old brother Mohammed Merah
steal the scooter used to escape from the sites of the attacks,
bought his helmets, and was located by his mobile-phone network
near the Jewish school several times in the days before the
shootings,  France  2 television reported, citing police
officials. Abdelkader was indicted by an anti-terror judge on
charges of complicity on March 25. He denies any involvement.  “There are still gray areas in this investigation, which
has just started,” Frederic Pechenard, the head of the national
police, said in an interview yesterday on RTL Radio, adding that
investigators are still unsure whether Merah  acted alone .  Sarkozy said yesterday he’d prevent Yusuf al-Qaradawi, a
Muslim theologian with a widely watched Al Jazeera television
program, from entering France for a conference next month. He
today called on called on television stations not to broadcast
the video of the killings. The gunman filmed all his attacks,
with the content of the camera “extremely explicit,” the French
prosecutor investigating the case said last week.  Clampdown  The president, has announced a series of measures since
police on March 22 killed the self-declared jihadist Frenchman
who murdered three soldiers and slayed three children and a
teacher at Jewish school in a nine-day shooting spree.  Sarkozy has said he’ll criminalize frequenting Internet
sites of groups that support terrorism. “The law considers
those who frequent pedophilia sites to be pedophiles, so we can
consider those who frequent sites that apologize for terrorism
to be terrorists,” he said.  The clampdown comes as Paris prosecutors March 25 opened a
formal investigation against Abdelkader, 29, saying in a
statement that “serious and corresponding signs” showed he
might have helped the killer. If found guilty, he could be
imprisoned for life, France 2 said.  Abdelkader through his lawyer has denied early reports that
cited him saying he was proud of his younger brother’s acts. He
denied playing any role in the killings or being aware of his
brother’s plans.  Campaign Fodder  Mohamed Merah, who was of Algerian descent, was shot dead
at his Toulouse house by the police on March 22 after a 32-hour-
long siege. His deadly attacks, which put the presidential
campaign on hold for three days, are now being debated.  Sarkozy has blamed Socialist Challenger Hollande, who is
leading in the polls, for not having voted the country’s most
recent terror laws. The first round of the election will be held
on April 22, with the second round set for May 6.  A BVA poll published today by Le Parisien showed that
security is not a top priority for the French; purchasing power
and unemployment are. Recent polls show Sarkozy gaining in the
polls for the first round, while remaining about eight points
behind Hollande in a potential run-off.  Hollande would beat Sarkozy by 54 percent to 46 percent in
the run-off, according to both a Harris Interactive poll and an
Ipsos survey. In both cases, the previous poll showed a 56
percent to 44 percent gap. A biweekly Ifop Fiducial poll for
Europe 1 radio, Paris Match and Public Senat showed Hollande
would win a head-to-head race 54 percent to 46 percent. The last
survey gave him a 54.5 percent to 45.5 percent lead.  Blame Game  Hollande, who toured  the island of Corsica  over the
weekend, blamed Sarkozy for not having improved security during
his five-year mandate and promised to fight gangs and petty
criminals, who he said help feed terrorism with guns and money.  “It is unworthy to question the work of the security
forces who risked their lives,” Sarkozy said at a rally near
Orleans in central France yesterday. “The French can be proud
of the work of their intelligence services and their police.”  State prosecutor  Francois Molins  disclosed at a press
conference March 22 that intelligence officers had questioned
Merah in late 2011 about his two trips to Afghanistan and
 Pakistan . Molins said that since he didn’t travel with any
terror networks it wasn’t clear if he ever did any terrorism
training. Merah told intelligence officials that his trips had
been for tourism, and had photos to back up his claims.  ‘Lone Wolf’  “It was the worst combination: he was what we call a lone
wolf and belonged to no terror networks,” Ange Mancini,
France’s national intelligence coordinator, told  Le Parisien 
March 25. “Every year, several dozen French citizens visit
Afghanistan and Pakistan. We are watching the French people who
go there,” he said, adding that the police could not ”watch
everyone all the time.”  Pechenard, the police chief, told Journal du Dimanche that
” thousands of young  French people” have gone to countries
including  Afghanistan , Pakistan, Yemen and  Egypt  for religious
training, and “it’s not illegal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  