-- HSBC Sells $2 Billion of 10-Year Bonds at Lower Relative Yield
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-03-27T22:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/hsbc-sells-2-billion-of-10-year-bonds-at-lower-relative-yield.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  raised $2 billion
selling 10-year notes at a lower relative yield than in its last
sale four months ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The world’s second-largest lender by market value issued
the 4 percent notes to yield 190 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries, Bloomberg data show. That compares with a
285 basis-point spread on $900 million of 4.875 percent debt
maturing in January 2022 that HSBC sold in November.  HSBC joined UBS AG and  MetLife Inc. (MET)  in selling debt today
as issuance of corporate bonds worldwide reaches $1.1 trillion
this quarter, the fastest start to a year since 2009, Bloomberg
data show. Investor confidence is being buoyed by loan programs
by the  European Central Bank  to combat the region’s debt crisis,
an agreement with lenders in the U.S. to end federal and state
probes into abusive foreclosure practices and results of the
 Federal Reserve ’s so-called stress tests on banks, according to
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s Edward Marrinan.  “Banks have led a powerful rally in corporate credit,”
Marrinan, a Stamford, Connecticut-based macro credit strategist
at RBS, said in a telephone interview. “It’s been near-ideal
market conditions for borrowers, and increasingly for financial
institutions.”  Average yields on financial debt worldwide have declined to
3.83 percent as of March 26 from 4.62 percent on Nov. 14, the
date of the prior HSBC bond sale, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data.  UBS (UBS) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, sold $2 billion of five-
year covered bonds denominated in U.S. dollars and New York-
based MetLife, the biggest U.S. life insurer, borrowed $1.5
billion in fixed- and floating-rate notes, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  