-- Scene Last Night: Netrebko, Kooyker, Ziff, Rossum, Macklowe
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-03-27T13:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/scene-last-night-netrebko-kooyker-ziff-rossum-macklowe.html
Emmy Rossum , an actress in the
Showtime series “Shameless,” who attended the  Metropolitan
Opera ’s new production of “Manon” last night, recalled her own
turn on that stage as a kid.  “I used to sing here in the children’s chorus,” Rossum
said. “I once dropped a shoe into the orchestra pit. I think it
fell on a trombone. We were sitting on the edge of the stage -
maybe it was ‘Falstaff’? -- and the shoe just fell off. It was
too big.”  The performance last night had no wardrobe mishaps. The
Belle Epoque frocks on stage were a highlight of the dark
production, the work of Laurent Pelly, who also directed the
Massenet opera.  As for guests, the fact that Rossum’s magenta gown fit very
well wasn’t a surprise, since fashion house  Yves Saint Laurent (YSLG) 
had underwritten the gala benefit and dressed her and several
other actresses for the evening.  January Jones  turned heads in her backless, long-sleeved
gown with a small metal chain-link design on the bodice.
Sweeping an errant strand of silky blond hair off her face, the
“Mad Men” star greeted Ingrid Sischy, a contributing editor of
Vanity Fair, and Cindi Leive, editor of Glamour on the Grand
Tier.  Hedge Fund  Not too far away and drawing a little less attention were
Willem Kooyker, founder, chairman and chief executive of
Blenheim Capital Management LLC, a commodities hedge fund, and
Roberto Paula, general manager of the Brazilian bank Bradesco,
who said the only thing he envies about the state-owned Banco do
Brasil is that Gisele Bundchen appears in its television
commercials.  David Koch , co-owner and executive vice president of  Koch
Industries , shared a table with Mercedes Bass, hard to miss in a
bright red sheath,  Howard Stringer , chairman and chief executive
of Sony Corp., and Barbara Walters.  Met Opera  chairman Ann Ziff spoke briefly, thanking the
chief executive officer of Yves Saint Laurent, Paul Deneve, for
the company’s five years of support and noting the event had
raised more than $1.3 million.  As guests finished off their sauteed sole, regular ticket-
holders arrived and picked through merchandise tables offering
paperbacks of Abbe Prevost’s 18th-century novel “Manon Lescaut,”
the inspiration for the opera, and recordings by  Anna Netrebko ,
the Russian diva who sang the part of the doomed teenager too
besotted with material things.  Adrienne Arsht, a Met Opera board member in a cobalt-blue
 Yves Saint Laurent  gown, and Julie Macklowe, who left  hedge
funds  to found her cosmetics company  vBeaute , both wore
waterproof mascara just in case they cried at the end.  Afterwards, Met sponsor Louis Roederer Champagne presented
Netrebko with a gift meant to be saved for another occasion: a
bottle of Louis Roederer Cristal, the design of which was
created in 1876 for Czar Alexander II of  Russia .  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 