-- Scene in D.C.: Frederick Beinecke, Inouye, Allan McArtor
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-03-27T14:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/scene-in-d-c-frederick-beinecke-inouye-allan-mcartor.html
Celebrating the 100th anniversary
of the Japanese gift of cherry blossom trees to Washington, the
Imperial Household Agency of  Japan  is lending the capital some
more-stylized flora.  Last night the  National Gallery of Art  hosted a gala
reception in honor of the opening of that loan, a monthlong
exhibition titled “Colorful Realm: Japanese Bird-and-Flower
Paintings by Ito Jakuchu (1716-1800).”  National Gallery trustee Frederick Beinecke, the president
of Antaeus Enterprises Inc., said he had to make the trip from
his home base in  New York  for the rare and short-lived show
because “you’re never going to see anything like this.”  Another National Gallery trustee, Sharon Percy Rockefeller
-- whose husband, Senator  Jay Rockefeller , the West Virginia
Democrat, was “tied up in the Senate” -- marveled at the
“extraordinary” art work, especially a scroll with a preening
peacock.  Senate business did not prevent Rockefeller’s colleague
Senator Daniel Inouye, the Hawaii Democrat, and his wife, Irene Hirano, from coming out.  Allan McArtor, chairman of  Airbus Americas (0131059D)  Inc., who
watched a Buddhist ceremony bless the exhibition, said people in
his industry are often seen as “engineers and policy wonks, but
we do have a softer side, a cultural side.”  Airbus,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Nikkei Inc. are among the
exhibition’s major sponsors.  Pearls and Bracelets  Ann Nitze, a private  art dealer , proudly announced that her
elegant black dress, which she accessorized with a pearl
necklace, was made by Japanese designer Hanae Mori.  For those who didn’t come accessorized, Yoriko Fujisaki,
the wife of Japanese Ambassador Ichiro Fujisaki, handed out
plastic white bracelets with small pink cherry blossoms.  Susie Nemazee, the wife of British Ambassador Peter Westmacott, also meandered through the exhibition.  After the guests mingled in the galleries, they went
upstairs to the building’s West Garden Court where champagne was
served with a signature blossom. Kyoko Okamoto played soothing
koto solos.  A buffet dinner of Japanese cuisine was served in the West
Sculpture Hall amid giant displays of cherry blossoms and small
arrangements of peonies.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
StephanieGreen in  Washington  at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 