-- Sealy Shareholder H Partners Demands Answers on KKR Fees
-- B y   J o h n   H e l y a r   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-03-27T23:37:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/sealy-shareholder-h-partners-demands-answers-on-kkr-fees.html
H Partners Management LLC, the
second-largest  shareholder  of  Sealy Corp. (ZZ) , stepped up its
confrontation with the mattress maker over its declining market
value and payments to KKR & Co., its biggest investor.  H Partners, in a letter today to Sealy’s nominating and
corporate governance committee, posed questions concerning what
it called “the payment of millions of dollars in questionable
fees to KKR.” The New York-based investment firm earlier this
month proposed appointing a representative to the board and
replacing three directors with KKR affiliation with new members,
steps Sealy rejected.  “If you fail to comply with our demands then we intend to
withhold support for Sealy’s incumbent directors,” H Partners
said in the letter signed by partners Usman Nabi and Arik Ruchim. The firm isn’t running a competing slate of directors in
an election set for the company’s April 18 annual meeting,
according to the letter.  Gemma Hart, an spokeswoman at Brunswick Group for Trinity,
North Carolina-based Sealy, declined to comment, as did  Kristi Huller , a spokeswoman for KKR in New York.  H Partners in the letter asked why independent directors
authorized “at least $9.7 million in payments to KKR for
advisory services only two years after paying $11 million to
terminate” such services from the private-equity firm. Other
questions in the letter focused on whether Sealy made “large
undisclosed payments to KKR” and why disclosure of payments to
KKR is “inconsistent.”  Earnings Report  H Partners holds a 15 percent stake in Sealy, after adding
almost 864,500 shares on March 20, according to a filing with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. KKR, which took
Sealy private in 2004, owns 45 percent of the company, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sealy went public in 2006.  The company today reported  net income  from continuing
operations of $1.6 million, or 1 cent a share, in the first
quarter ended Feb. 26. That compared with profit of $130,000, or
zero cents, a year earlier, and exceeded the average estimate of
a loss of 2 cents a share by seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales increased 2.2 percent, to $312.3 million.  On March 23, Gary E. Morin, chairman of the nominating and
corporate government committee, rejected H Partners’ demand for
board changes.  Bond Underwriter  “The board is composed of strong, highly qualified and
committed members,” Morin wrote in a letter. Morin also
rejected H Partners’ contention that Sealy’s board is dominated
by KKR, saying five of nine directors meet  New York  Stock
Exchange guidelines as independent.  In today’s letter, H Partners said Morin “failed to
explain why almost 90 percent, or $1.3 billion, of value has
disappeared since Sealy’s IPO in 2006.” It also reiterated
complaints about the company’s governance and KKR’s transparency
and added a new one.  H Partners cited an August 2010 investor presentation by
KKR highlighting its “profitable” underwriting business, with
one example being fees generated as underwriter of $350 million
of Sealy first lien bonds issued in 2009.  “We have found no disclosure of any payment to KKR for its
role as ‘underwriter’ of the first lien bonds,” the letter
said.  KKR, run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , bought Sealy
for $1.5 billion from an investment group that included Bain
Capital LLC. KKR paid $5.78 a share for the bedding maker and
took it public two years later for $16 a share.  Sealy closed today at $1.88, down 2 cents, in New York
trading. The earnings were released after the end of regular
trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Helyar in Atlanta  at 
 jhelyar@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  