-- SEC Sues Former United Commercial Bank Executive Cinderey
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-03-28T00:35:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/sec-sues-former-united-commercial-bank-executive-cinderey-1-.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued former United Commercial Bank Vice President
John Cinderey, accusing him of creating false records tied to
the defunct San Francisco-based bank’s evaluation of loan risks.  United Commercial, a unit of  UCBH Holdings Inc (UCBHQ) ., was seized
by regulators in November 2009. It failed following the 2008
credit crisis and caused a $2.5 billion loss to the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp.’s insurance fund, according to the SEC.
Cinderey, 64, was in charge of the bank’s commercial banking
division, the SEC said.  Cinderey, taking orders from his superiors during the
financial crisis, “misstated and omitted material information
in documents provided to the bank’s independent auditors,” the
SEC said in its complaint filed today in federal court in  San
Francisco . Cinderey “altered memoranda addressing the risks
associated with certain large loans and the potential losses the
bank faced from the loans,” which auditors relied on, according
to the complaint.  Three former executives at the bank were sued by the SEC
last year over claims they misled investors by concealing at
least $65 million in loan losses before the lender collapsed.  In its suit filed in October, the SEC claimed United
Commercial Bank’s chief executive officer, Thomas Wu, worked
with Chief Operating Officer Ebrahim Shabudin and senior officer
Thomas Yu to hide impaired assets from auditors, causing  UCBH
Holdings (UCBHQ)  to understate 2008 operating losses.  Cinderey’s lawyer, Mary McNamara, didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Cinderey,
12-01519, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California 
(San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  