-- Senegal’s Stability Bolstered by Wade’s Decision to Stand Down
-- B y   A m a n d a   F o r t i e r   a n d   R o s e   S k e l t o n
-- 2012-03-27T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/senegal-s-stability-bolstered-by-wade-s-decision-to-stand-down.html
Senegal ’s political stability,
hindered by violent protests against  Abdoulaye Wade , will be
bolstered by the leader’s decision to concede defeat and hand
power to his former ally, Macky Sall, after an election.  “After some early concerns over the conduct of the
incumbent, a peaceful and transparent second round and the
readiness of Wade to concede will improve the democratic
standing of Senegal and bolster investor confidence,” Anna
Osborne, senior analyst at Bath, U.K.-based Maplecroft, a risk
analysis company, said in an e-mailed note yesterday.  Wade, 85, conceded defeat after results from the March 25
election showed Sall with more than 50 percent of the vote in at
least 10 of Senegal’s sub-regions, according to figures
published by state-owned Agence de Presse Senegalaise, or APS.
The West African nation’s Court of Appeal may give the outcome
today, Isa Sall, spokesman for the electoral commission, said by
phone from Dakar, the capital.  “This ballot will certainly mark a further step toward
consolidating the democratic gains and political stability of
Senegal,” said Koffi Sama, former prime minister of Togo and
head of the Economic Community of West African States’ observer
mission. “There were no major obstacles or incidences” during
the vote, he told reporters in Dakar yesterday.  Eurobonds  A peaceful transition will support Senegal’s $500 million
Eurobonds, which it sold last May, while boosting the country’s
institutional credentials and reputation for political
stability,  Samir Gadio , an emerging-markets strategist with
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in  London , said in an e-mailed note.  The yield on the bonds, due in 2021, dropped 56 basis
points, or 5.6 percent, to a record low of 7.484 percent late
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It took only a few hours for Wade to admit he had lost,
as early results showed that he was trailing by a wide margin,”
Gadio said. “By doing so, Wade is also probably attempting to
secure his legacy, which has been somewhat tarnished by the
third term bid.”  Wade faced protests in Dakar and elsewhere against his
attempt to extend his 12 years in office after his candidacy was
approved by the Constitutional Court in January. Demonstrators
claimed his bid for a third term violated a law that limits
presidential tenures to two. At least nine people died in
clashes with police during the protests, according to  Amnesty
International .  “It’s like we won the  World Cup ,” Oumar Kante, a 33-year-
old unemployed computer technician, said in Dakar yesterday.
“It was smart for Wade to give up before it got worse for
him.”  New Era  A runoff was held after Wade fell short of the majority
needed to win in the first round on Feb. 26, taking 34.8 percent
of the vote. Sall, a 50-year-old who served as Senegal’s prime
minister from 2004 to 2007, won 26.9 percent. Protests against
Wade halted after observers said the first-round vote was mainly
transparent and as the opposition rallied around Sall.  “A new era begins for Senegal,” Sall said late on March
25, according a statement published on APS’s website. “The
electorate voted in calm and serenity. Their maturity is a
source of pride for all of us.”  Sall’s coalition, called Benno Bokk Yakaar, or Grouping of
Forces for Change in the Wolof language, includes 12 of the 14
candidates who ran in the first round. It brought together
civil-society groups that organized the anti-Wade protests, such
as Y’en a Marre and Mouvement 23, as well as Grammy award-
winning singer Youssou N’Dour, whose candidacy was invalidated
by the  Constitutional Court  on a technicality.  “These elections show grandeur on the part of both Wade
and the Senegalese people,” said Oumar Diallo, a lawyer with
the Dakar-based human rights group  Raddho , which took part in
the anti-Wade protests before the first round. “It will be an
interesting time for the country, as we renew our political
system and change perspectives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Skelton in Bamako via Accra at 
 rskelton7@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Fortier in Dakar via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  