-- Simor Signals Steady Hungarian Rates as IMF Delay Raises Risk
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-03-27T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/simor-signals-steady-hungarian-rates-as-imf-delay-raises-risk.html
Hungary ’s central bank is poised to
keep the European Union’s highest main interest rate unchanged
for several quarters as the government’s failure to start talks
on a bailout loan damages the country’s risk assessment.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank left the  two-week deposit rate  at 7
percent for a third month yesterday and raised its inflation
forecast for this year and next. Policy makers discussed a
quarter-point rate increase as well as lowering borrowing costs
by 25 basis points, central bank President Andras Simor said.  “The  base rate  needs to be kept unchanged at this level
for several quarters to reach the inflation target, according to
projections,” Simor said, referring to the central bank’s
latest economic outlook, published yesterday. Hungary would be
able to lower rates “if Hungary’s risk assessment markedly
improved or if no deterioration in inflation risks occurred.”  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , who’s battling to avert a
recession, asked the EU and the  International Monetary Fund  for
a bailout in November as the forint fell to a record low and the
country’s credit rating was cut to junk. Four months later,
talks have yet to start as Hungary has failed to show that
independent institutions such as the central bank are free of
government influence.  The forint has weakened 1.8 percent against the euro since
reaching its strongest level in five months on Feb. 21 as
investors question the government’s commitment to an IMF deal.
The currency has advanced 8 percent this year after a 15 percent
decline in the second half of 2011.  ‘Intensified Pressure’  “The delay of the talks and the risk of intensified
pressure on local assets ahead of the deal will likely deliver
unchanged rates until late 2012 when inflation starts to decline
and a loan agreement is likely to be finalized or within
reach,”  Eszter Gargyan , a Budapest-based economist for
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  wrote in an e-mailed note yesterday.  The cost of insuring state debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps rose to 544 basis points
on March 23, the highest close in a month, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The
swaps traded at 535 basis points yesterday.  The central bank, which targets 3 percent inflation, raised
its consumer-price forecast for this year and next. It sees the
2012 rate at 5.6 percent, up from a previous estimate of 5
percent, and at 3 percent next year, rather than a 2.6 percent
earlier forecast.  ‘Doesn’t Justify’  “The current inflation outlook doesn’t justify a rate
increase, however, a deterioration in  international investor (TII) 
sentiment may bring one about,” said Istvan Horvath, director
at the Budapest investment management unit of  KBC Groep NV. (KBC)   Any rate cut will hinge on the inflation outlook and an
improvement in investors’ perception of risk associated with
Hungary, Simor said yesterday, adding that the signing of the
financing agreement and its timing are factors influencing
monetary policy.  Some amendments made to Hungary’s disputed central bank
bill, one of the issues blocking aid talks, show progress while
“on some matters there has been no progress at all and on some,
what’s happening isn’t exactly what’s needed in our opinions”
Simor said.  Hungarian rates contrast with record low borrowing costs
elsewhere in eastern  Europe . Czech policy makers have kept the
 benchmark  rate at 0.75 percent, a quarter-point less than the
 European Central Bank ’s main rate, since May 2010. Romania has
cut rates three times since November to a record 5.5 percent to
guard against Europe’s debt crisis, while Poland left rates at
4.5 percent for a ninth month on March 7.  Growth Effect  Polish central bank Governor Marek Belka in a March 26
interview signaled he’s prepared to wait before raising  interest
rates  to avoid the risk of having to reverse the move should the
economy slow.  Hungary’s  economy  will expand 0.1 percent this year,
unchanged from a previous forecast, and will grow 1.5 percent in
2013, rather than an earlier projection of 1.6 percent, the bank
said in its updated Inflation Report yesterday.  The government has scaled back its projection for economic
growth this year, maintaining that the country will probably
avoid a recession,  Mihaly Varga , Orban’s chief of staff, said
Feb. 20. The Cabinet’s estimate ranges between stagnation and
0.5 percent growth.  Simor also said the country needed an IMF agreement as soon
as possible to help lower borrowing costs. The yield on the 10-
year government bond rose to 9.1 percent on March 23, a two-
month high, before dropping to 8.82 percent yesterday, according
to generic prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Orban’s Policies  Hungary was the first EU nation to obtain an IMF bailout in
2008 after investors sold the assets of the bloc’s most-indebted
eastern member. Orban shunned renewing the aid after coming to
power in 2010, pursuing what he called “unorthodox” economic
policies that included nationalizing private-pension funds and
forcing lenders to take losses on foreign-currency loans.  OTP Bank Nyrt., the country’s largest lender, reported its
first quarterly loss in three years in the three months ended
Dec. 31. Foldhitel es Jelzalogbank Nyrt., the nation’s second-
largest mortgage lender, had its second consecutive quarterly
loss in the same period.  Forward-rate agreements, used to bet on three-month
interest rates in three months’ time, traded less than 10 basis
points above the Budapest Interbank Offered Rate, indicating no
change in rates next quarter. Nine-month FRAs traded 28 basis
points below Bubor, signaling a quarter-point reduction by year
end.  “At the moment, we still think monetary easing may come
sometime in the second half of 2012, but uncertainty is high
about the timing,” Zoltan Arokszallasi, an economist at  Erste
Group Bank AG (EBS)  in Budapest, wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  