-- Sinopec’s Fu Says $2 Billion Joint Bid for China Gas ‘Fair’
-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 2012-03-27T03:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/sinopec-s-fu-says-2-billion-joint-bid-for-china-gas-fair-1-.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) ,
which jointly bid for China Gas Holdings Ltd. with  ENN Energy
Holdings Ltd. (2688)  for HK$15.3 billion ($2 billion), said the offer
is “fair” and reflects the company’s value.  “We cannot pay a price that’s higher than market
valuation,” Fu Chengyu, chairman of Sinopec, as China Petroleum
is known, said in Hong Kong yesterday. “We are held responsible
for our shareholders’ interests as well.”  China Gas, which supplies to 20 mainland provinces,
rejected the HK$3.50-a-share bid in December, saying it’s
opportunistic and fails to reflect the company’s value. Sinopec,
expecting strong growth in its natural gas production in the
years to come, is seeking direct access to end users, Fu told
reporters at a briefing.  The acquisition would pit Sinopec against  PetroChina Co. (857) ,
which has “monopolized” the country’s gas-distribution market
through its own production and its listed Kunlun Energy Co.
unit, said Wu Fei, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Bocom
International.  Buying China Gas, whose shareholders include SK Holdings
Co. and Fortune Oil Plc, would give Sinopec and ENN access to
its 6.6 million residential customers and 42,000 industrial and
commercial users in the world’s second-biggest economy.  The bid proposed on Dec. 13 was at a premium of 25 percent
to the closing  price  of HK$2.80 the day before. China Gas has
advanced 33 percent since to HK$3.71 in Hong Kong as of 11:16
a.m. local time.  Overseas Deals  Sinopec and its parent  China  Petrochemical Corp. are
ramping up domestic and overseas oil and gas production to
counter losses from selling diesel and gasoline at state-
mandated prices. Fu has led the companies to bid for $9.3
billion in overseas deals since he joined the group in April
last year.  In November, Sinopec Group, as China Petrochemical is
known, agreed to pay $5.2 billion for a stake in a unit of Galp
Energia SGPS SA to explore for oil off the Brazilian coast.  Fu also bought Calgary-based explorer Daylight Energy Ltd.
in December and a stake in five Devon Energy Corp. exploratory
oil projects in the U.S. in January, building on the $8.8
billion purchase of Addax Petroleum Corp. in June 2009, China’s
biggest overseas energy acquisition to date.  Before joining Sinopec, Fu masterminded $17.6 billion in
global acquisitions at  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest offshore
energy explorer, even as his $18.5 billion bid for Unocal Corp.
in 2005 failed after drawing political opposition in the U.S.  Sinopec has gained 15 percent in Hong Kong trading in the
past year, compared with the 9.2 percent drop in the  Hang Seng
Index . The stock rose 0.7 percent to HK$8.83 as of 11:17 a.m.  New Deadlines  Fourth-quarter profit at Sinopec slumped 23 percent to 11.8
billion yuan ($1.9 billion), missing estimates, as fuel-price
increases in China last year lagged behind gains in global crude
costs. Full-year net income rose 2 percent to 73.2 billion yuan,
also less than expected by analysts.  Sinopec and ENN on March 19 extended the deadline for
completing negotiations to May 15 from March 31, and ENN said it
would dispatch a circular on the bid to its shareholders by
April 30.  That followed from an earlier delay in February to
circulate the notice. ENN, listed in Hong Kong, had said it
needed more time to prepare the information and complete its
2011 earnings results. The stock rose 3.4 percent to HK$27.65 as
of 11:18 a.m.  The delays are “extremely frustrating,”  China Gas (384) 
President Eric Leung said on March 20. “This new timetable
allows ENN and Sinopec five months to formalize an offer, and
yet they still retain the right to extend this even further.”  Unhappy Workers  China Gas said almost 4,000 employees signed letters
opposing the offer. The workers are concerned the takeover may
hurt the operations of the company and the development of the
gas industry in China, according to a Feb. 3 filing to the Hong
Kong stock exchange.  “I think many employees didn’t understand the situation,
and many were affected by rumors that we may lay off workers,”
Fu said. “If you check our records, we’ve never laid off
workers after acquisitions. We develop our business through
growth, not by laying off workers.”  Sinopec and ENN made the hostile approach after the
target’s shares slumped following the arrest of two senior China
Gas officials in December 2010 for suspected embezzlement. The
mainland gas supplier subsequently removed the men from its
board and dismissed one of them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  