-- SolarWorld U.S. Head Says Final China Tariffs Will Be Higher
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-03-27T21:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/solarworld-u-s-head-says-final-china-tariffs-will-be-higher.html
Final U.S. tariffs for Chinese
solar-energy equipment makers will be higher than the
preliminary levies of as much as 4.73 percent imposed last week,
said Gordon Brinser, president of  SolarWorld AG (SWV) ’s U.S. unit.  The initial penalty “does not cover the full extent of the
harm” caused by Chinese subsidies and unfair product pricing,
Brinser said yesterday in an interview in  Washington . The
decision was “just one of four steps,” he said, though “a
good step forward.”  The U.S. International Trade Commission, acting on a
complaint by SolarWorld, found in December that American
companies had been harmed by Chinese subsidies and by producers
from the Asian nation selling their products at below cost in
the U.S., a practice known as dumping.  The Commerce Department will make a preliminary
determination on anti-dumping tariffs on May 17 and a final
ruling on countervailing duties in June. Brinser declined to
estimate the level of tariffs that will eventually be imposed.  The Chinese government uses cash grants, raw-material
discounts, preferential loans, tax incentives and currency
manipulation to boost exports of solar cells, according to
SolarWorld’s Oct. 19 complaint to the trade commission and the
Commerce Department.  SolarWorld Complaint  In the complaint, SolarWorld and six other domestic
producers asked for 100 percent tariffs to counter the alleged
dumping. They didn’t specify a remedy for the unfair subsidies.  While Brinser acknowledged that among U.S. solar-power
companies there is “a coalition out there that oppose the
case,” he said his company has a “broad base of support”
within the industry.  The Commerce Department on March 20 told Suntech Power
Holdings Co., the world’s largest solar-panel maker, to pay a
2.9 percent tariff and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  to pay 4.73 percent to
make up for subsidies they received from  China ’s government. All
other Chinese solar-equipment firms were told to pay 3.61
percent. The duties are retroactive to 90 days before the
ruling.  “This could have been a lot worse,” Aaron Chew, an
analyst at Maxim Group LLC, said after the decision was
announced. Chew said some people expected a tariff as high as 10
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  