-- Some Justices Question Health Law’s Constitutionality
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   L a u r i e   A s s e o
-- 2012-03-27T20:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/some-justices-question-health-law-s-constitutionality.html
U.S. Supreme Court justices hinted
they might strike down President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law
as the court’s Republican appointees suggested Congress went too
far by requiring Americans obtain insurance or pay a penalty.  On the second of three days of arguments in the historic
case, justices’ questions indicated they might split 5-to-4,
with the court’s five Republican appointees joining together to
overturn the law.  Justice  Anthony Kennedy  said the measure is unlike others
the court upheld previously because it tells individuals they
“must act.” Kennedy, who most often occupies the court’s
ideological middle ground, said, “That changes the relationship
of the government to the individual in the very fundamental
way.”  The law would extend coverage to 32 million people and
revamp an industry that accounts for 18 percent of the  U.S.
economy . The court hasn’t overturned a measure with such
sweeping impact since the 1930s, when it voided parts of
 Franklin D. Roosevelt ’s New Deal, the package of economic
programs enacted in the 1930s in response to the Great
Depression.  The court probably will rule in late June, months before
the November election. A ruling against the measure would give
ammunition to Obama’s Republican challengers, who have said the
law should be repealed.  Republican Appointees  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Managed Health Care
Index of 12 insurance companies rose 0.2 percent when the market
closed.  The Obama administration needs the vote of at least one of
the five Republican appointees on the nine-member court to
uphold the law. Four of them -- Chief Justice  John Roberts  and
Justices Antonin Scalia,  Samuel Alito  and Kennedy -- challenged
U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, interrupting him
repeatedly as he pressed his case for upholding the law.  “I don’t think the challengers could have hoped to have
had a better day and I don’t think the government realistically
could have had a more distressing day,” said  Tom Goldstein , an
appellate lawyer whose Scotusblog website tracks the court.
Bloomberg Law sponsors the blog.  Roberts directed three-quarters of his approximately 20
questions to Verrilli. Roberts said the health plan would
“require people who are never going to need pediatric or
maternity services to participate in that market.”  ‘Huge Subsidy’  Roberts and Kennedy also questioned the arguments of two
lawyers challenging the statute. In one question, Kennedy
suggested the health-care market might be one-of-a-kind.  Young people are “uniquely, proximately very close to
affecting the rates of insurance and the cost of providing
medical care in a way that is not true in other industries,”
Kennedy told Michael Carvin, the lawyer for a business trade
group. “That’s my concern in the case.”  Alito called the insurance requirement and penalties a
“huge subsidy” from young, healthy people who don’t want
coverage to those who need a lot of health care. He cited an
estimate that people targeted by the mandate consume an average
of $854 per year in health-care services, comparing it with the
estimated $5,800 annual price for a individual insurance policy
in 2016.  Bolstering Government’s Case  On several occasions, the court’s Democratic appointees
jumped in to bolster Verrilli’s case. Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  on multiple occasions said Congress was trying to
address the problem of uninsured people shifting their health-
care costs onto others.  “The problem is that they are making the rest of us pay
for it,” she said.  As the justices heard two hours of arguments, hundreds of
opponents of the law gathered near the court at an event
sponsored by a Tea Party-affiliated group. They carried signs
with slogans such as “One Big Lie” and “Don’t Tread on Me”
and chanted, “Hey, hey, ho, ho, Obamacare has got to go!”  The courtroom was packed for a second straight day.
Spectators included Attorney General Eric Holder and at least
eight U.S. senators, including Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell .  Verrilli contended that Congress can require people to buy
insurance under its constitutional power to regulate interstate
commerce, including the health-care market.  ‘Enduring Problem’  People who don’t buy health insurance and can’t afford to
pay for their care are guaranteed emergency-room treatment when
they need it, Verrilli said. People who have insurance are
subsidizing them, he said.  The law “addresses a fundamental and enduring problem in
our health care system and our economy,” he said.  Scalia indicated he was skeptical.  “The federal government is not supposed to be a government
that has all powers,” Scalia said. “It’s supposed to be a
government of limited powers.”  At another point, Scalia said the administration’s argument
would let Congress “make people buy broccoli.”  Ilya Shapiro, senior fellow in constitutional studies at
the  Cato Institute , a Washington group that urges smaller
government, attended the arguments and said he watched Scalia’s
face.  The justice was “scowling and grimacing in disbelief” at
Verrilli’s arguments, he said.  Thomas Silent  The fifth Republican-appointed justice,  Clarence Thomas ,
asked no questions, as is his practice. He has previously voted
to put tight limits on Congress’s power under the commerce
clause.  Paul Clement , a lawyer for the 26 states challenging the
law, called it “an unprecedented effort by Congress to compel
individuals to enter commerce in order to better regulate
commerce.”  Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  suggested the federal government
can require people to buy insurance ahead of time “because you
can’t buy it at the moment you need it.”  The justices questioned Verrilli on whether Congress could
force people to buy things such as food or burial insurance.  “Can the government require you to buy a cell phone
because that would facilitate responding when you need  emergency
services ?” Roberts asked.  Light Moment  Ginsburg rejected Alito’s concern that healthy people would
have to subsidize the sick.  “That’s how insurance works,” she said. Later, she said,
“People who don’t participate in this market are making it much
more expensive for the people who do.”  The session included one light moment, when Justice Elena Kagan started to ask Carvin a question and then stopped to let
him complete a thought. When she again tried to interject,
Breyer cut her off and began asking Carvin a minutes-long series
of questions.  When he finished, Breyer told Carvin, “Go back to Justice
Kagan. Don’t forget her question.”  Kagan, the court’s newest justice, quipped, “I’ve
forgotten my question,” causing the courtroom to explode with
laughter.  “See what it means to be the junior justice?” she added
with a smile.  During yesterday’s opening session, the justices suggested
they will reject an argument that they can’t consider the case
until the penalty is imposed in 2015.  Republican Challengers  Obama’s Republican challengers all oppose the measure and
say they want to undo it. Former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  appeared outside the court yesterday and attacked  Mitt Romney , who signed a similar state law when he was governor of
 Massachusetts . Romney is the “worst person” to debate the
health law with Obama, Santorum said.  The six hours of arguments spread over three days are the
most the court has heard in a case in 44 years.  Tomorrow, the last day, the justices will consider what
should happen to the rest of the law if they invalidate the
insurance requirement. The court also will take up whether the
law, by expanding the Medicaid program, unconstitutionally
coerces states into spending more on health care for the poor.  The fate of the insurance requirement will turn partly on
the court’s interpretation of the constitutional provision that
lets Congress regulate interstate commerce. The justices’
opinions in previous cases only hint at how they may apply it to
the insurance requirement.  Government’s Argument  The government says that every American is already part of
the interstate market for health care and that the mandate
requires them to get coverage to pay for treatment they will
eventually need. The challengers say Americans who fail to buy
insurance can’t be regulated because they aren’t engaged in
commerce. Congress has never before required people to purchase
something, they say.  Upholding the mandate, opponents say, would mean Congress
could force consumers to buy any product for the sake of
stimulating the economy. Instead of providing cash incentives to
buy new cars and boost the  auto industry , as the government did
in 2009, Congress could have required everyone above a certain
income level to buy a new car, they say.  The Obama administration and its allies say the auto and
health-care industries aren’t the same. Uninsured people
consumed $118 billion in health-care services in 2008 and paid
only 37 percent of those costs, the administration says. Those
costs are passed from care providers to insurers to
policyholders, ultimately increasing the average premium for
insured families by $1,000 a year, the government says.  The government also says the individual mandate will keep
policy premiums in check by giving insurers millions of new,
low-cost customers. Otherwise, prices would soar because the law
also requires insurers to accept applicants with pre-existing
conditions and charge them the same rates as other
policyholders, the government says.  Of the four federal appeals courts to rule on the health-
care law, two upheld it, one declared the insurance mandate
unconstitutional and the fourth said the Anti-Injunction Act
made a judicial review premature.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  