-- Sony’s Hirai Stakes Reputation on Restoring TVs to Profit
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-03-28T03:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/sony-s-incoming-president-hirai-to-run-home-entertainment-unit.html
Sony Corp. (6758) ’s incoming President
 Kazuo Hirai  put himself in charge of the company’s unprofitable
TV unit, staking his reputation on ending eight years of losses.  Sony,  Japan ’s biggest  electronics exporter , abolished two
divisions at its main electronics unit and promoted three
executives, the  company  said in a statement yesterday. The
changes, effective April 1 when Hirai takes over as chief
executive officer, are aimed at speeding up  management 
decisions, said Satsuki Shinnaka, a spokeswoman.  Hirai, 51, who’s been credited for making the PlayStation
game business  profitable , is bringing in a new team as he seeks
to turn around the TV business that’s forecast to lose money for
an eighth consecutive year. Hirai has vowed “painful” steps to
cut costs and turn around a company facing a fourth straight
annual loss amid consumers increasingly flocking to devices from
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  for movies and games.  “You can’t just expect any hero to show up and resolve
Sony’s problems,” said  Shiro Mikoshiba , an analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in Tokyo.  The Tokyo-based  company’s shares gained  2.2 percent to
1,780 yen at the midday trading break in the city. The shares
have jumped 29 percent this year, compared with a 23 percent
rise for Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung and a 52 percent
advance for Cupertino, California-based Apple.  Reshuffle  Sony named Shoji Nemoto, 55, to oversee the company’s
technology strategy and its digital imaging and solution units.
Kunimasa Suzuki, 51, will be in charge of product strategy,
mobile phones and personal computers. Tomoyuki Suzuki, 57, was
named to oversee Sony’s chip and device solution businesses.  The maker of Bravia TVs and Vaio computers is abolishing
the consumer products and services group, which handled consumer
electronics, and the professional device and solutions group,
which handled business-use products and components. Sony is
creating a medical business unit, to be run by Executive Deputy
President  Hiroshi Yoshioka , who oversaw the professional device
and solutions group.  Hirai, who worked in Sony’s music and entertainment
divisions, edged out three other candidates with engineering
backgrounds for the top job at the company that was a
trendsetter in the 1980s. Hirai will succeed  Howard Stringer ,
70, who will become chairman of the board after a shareholders
meeting in June.  Top Job  Soon after he was named for the top job last month, Hirai
reaffirmed his commitment to TVs. The world’s No. 3 maker has a
sales target of 20 million sets for the year ending March 31,
though the business may lose between 220 billion yen ($2.7
billion) and 230 billion yen.  Televisions are important as an output device, Hirai said
last month. “Withdrawing or shrinking would cut a link for
customers to experience” Sony content, he had said.  Hirai was born in  Tokyo  on Dec. 22, 1960. He grew up in
Japan and the U.S., graduating from the International Christian
University in Tokyo in 1984 with a bachelor’s degree in liberal
arts.  After graduation, he joined a joint venture set up in Tokyo
by Sony and CBS Inc. The business later became Sony Music
Entertainment Inc., Sony’s main music unit.  TV Turnaround  Hirai has already  taken action  on turning around the TV
business. Last year Sony exited a panel-making venture with
Samsung. The sale of the stake in the venture to the South
Korean company will save about 50 billion yen in cost at Sony’s
TV operation.  “Hirai appears to be a person of action as he’s already
shown his issue-solving ability in halting investments in the
SLCD venture,” said  Yuji Fujimori , Tokyo-based analyst at
Barclays Plc, referring to the venture with Samsung.  The maker of Bravia TVs has lost ground to Samsung and  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570) , both of which sell TVs profitably. Sony and
fellow Japanese television makers Sharp Corp. and  Panasonic
Corp. (6752)  have been crippled by the strengthening yen, which forced
Sharp to predict a record 290 billion-yen loss this year.  Besides reforming the TV unit, Hirai needs to break down
internal barriers and deliver new products that can win back
consumers, Nomura’s Mikoshiba said.  “Sony still has silos. Each section is looking at a
different direction and that’s why Sony is struggling to catch
up with Apple and Samsung,” Mikoshiba said. “Hirai needs to
bring Sony-like products that everyone would want to buy to
revive the company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  