-- Soros Insider-Trade Appeal Rejected by Human Rights Court
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-03-27T18:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/soros-appeal-of-insider-trading-case-rejected-by-echr-high-court.html
Billionaire investor  George Soros 
lost a challenge to his 2002 insider-trading conviction, with
the  European Court of Human Rights ’s Grand Chamber refusing to
review whether  France  had violated his rights.  The court declined to hear Soros’s appeal it said in a
 statement  today, without providing any reasoning. Soros, 81, was
convicted by Paris courts in 2002 for using inside information
about  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  in his trading. He argued that French
market regulations weren’t clear enough to hold him responsible.  As “a famous institutional investor, well-known to the
business community and a participant in major financial
projects,” Soros should have been “particularly prudent” in
ensuring he was obeying insider-trading laws, the Strasbourg,
France-based European court said in its October decision.  In the French case, Soros was ordered to repay 2.2 million
euros ($2.93 million) he’d made from the share purchase and
subsequent sale after judges found he’d acted with the knowledge
that the bank might be a takeover target. The fine was reduced
after a 2007 decision by France’s supreme court to about 940,000
euros.  “Mr. Soros continues to maintain that he did not engage in
improper trading,” his lawyer,  Ron Soffer , said today. The
Grand Chamber’s refusal is “regrettable” given that three of
the judges in the lower chamber wrote a “strong” dissent, he
said.  While prosecutors filed criminal charges, French stock
market regulators didn’t pursue Soros, saying insider-trading
laws were too vague to determine whether he’d broken them.  “The conviction is so old it has been expunged pursuant to
French law,” Soffer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  