-- South Korean Manufacturer Confidence Climbs to 6-Month High
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-03-28T00:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/south-korean-manufacturers-confidence-rises-to-six-month-high.html
South Korean manufacturers’
confidence rose to the highest level in six months on signs that
the outlook for global growth is improving.  An  index  measuring expectations for April climbed to 85
from 84 for March, the Bank of Korea said in a statement in
 Seoul  today. A measure of expectations at  non-manufacturing
companies  advanced to 82 from 80.  Progress in containing  Europe ’s debt crisis has buoyed
confidence, along with improvements in the  U.S. economy  and
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaling that an
accommodative monetary policy may continue. South Korea’s
consumer sentiment index rose to a four-month high, a central
bank report showed yesterday.  “Broad sentiment and economic conditions are apparently
improving, which will likely reduce any odds of an interest rate
cut and buoy the won,” said Lee Sang Jae, a senior economist at
Hyundai Securities Co. in Seoul. “The first quarter of this
year will be a bottom and the economy will likely gain pace from
the second quarter, with the European crisis easing and major
economies picking up.”  The Bank of Korea left its benchmark rate unchanged at 3.25
percent on March 8 for a ninth straight month, saying that
downside risks to growth persist while inflation expectations
remain high. Consumer inflation moderated to a 14-month low of
3.1 percent in February, within the central bank’s target range.  The  International Monetary Fund  predicts “modest growth in
the U.S., mild recession in Europe and a continuation of a
comfortable level of growth in Asia with a soft landing in
 China ,” David Lipton, first deputy managing director, said in
Seoul yesterday.  The business survey, conducted from March 14 to March 21,
was based on responses from 1,614 manufacturers and 882 non-
manufacturers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  