-- South Africa May Delay Raising Key Rate as Inflation Eases
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-03-28T07:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/south-africa-may-delay-raising-lending-rate-as-inflation-eases.html
South Africa ’s central bank may
keep borrowing costs unchanged tomorrow for a record 16 months
after inflation slowed in February, easing concern that price
pressures may be spreading in the continent’s largest economy.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor  Gill Marcus ,
will leave the benchmark rate at 5.5 percent, according to all
18 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Marcus is due to announce
the decision in a televised press conference that begins at
about 3 p.m. local time in the capital,  Pretoria .  The  Reserve Bank  has kept the  repurchase rate  at the lowest
level in more than 30 years, since November 2010, to support the
economy’s recovery as the debt crisis in  Europe  worsened. Marcus
may have room to postpone raising  interest rates  after inflation
unexpectedly eased last month to just above the 3 percent to 6
percent target band.  “The favorable inflation rate has changed the tone,”
Thabi Leoka, head of macroeconomic research for South  Africa  at
Standard Bank Group Ltd., Africa’s biggest lender, said in a
phone interview from Johannesburg. Slowing inflation “reduces
pressure” to raise rates and makes it more likely policy makers
will reduce inflation forecasts, she said.  Investors are paring bets the central bank will raise rates
this year. The yield on the forward-rate agreement contract due
in nine months dropped 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point,
to 5.98 percent since the February inflation data was released
on March 22.  ‘Generalized’ Inflation  The statistics office said  inflation  unexpectedly slowed to
6.1 percent from 6.3 percent in January, compared with the 6.4
percent median estimate of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Prior to the data, Marcus said inflation pressures may be
becoming “more generalized” as demand in the economy picks up,
adding to expectations the bank may be preparing to raise
interest rates. Spending in the economy rose an annualized 5.1
percent in the fourth quarter, the fastest pace in more than a
year, the Reserve Bank said on March 19.  The inflation figure provides “better room from what they
had at the last meeting,” Jeffrey Schultz, an economist at  Absa
Group Ltd. (ASA) , South Africa’s largest retail bank, said in an
interview in Johannesburg. “It will be a slightly easier
decision to make.”  Marcus said on March 15 the inflation rate will probably
drop below 6 percent by the end of the year. Absa forecasts the
rate will remain outside the target range in 2012, reaching 6.3
percent by December.  ‘Cost-Push’ Inflation  Until the governor’s comment that price pressures may be
spreading in the economy, the central bank’s view was that
inflation was being driven by “cost-push” factors, such as
rising food and energy costs.  “We see no core demand-side pressures,” Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura Plc in  London , said in a note
to clients. “We believe there is some limited evidence of real
wage and energy price pass-through into  core inflation , but not
demand effects.”  The Reserve Bank has kept rates unchanged to support the
economy as its forecasts growth will slow to an estimated 2.8
percent this year from 3.1 percent in 2011. The government says
it needs growth of 7 percent a year to meet its target to cut
the  jobless rate  to 14 percent by 2020. Unemployment is 23.9
percent, the highest of 61 nations tracked by Bloomberg.  The central bank kept the benchmark rate unchanged for 13
months to June 2006.  The rand gained 6.2 percent against the dollar this year,
helping to keep price pressures in check. The currency dropped
0.1 percent to 7.6179 at 9:20 a.m. Johannesburg time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  