-- U.S. and African Union Voice Concern About Sudan Clashes
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-03-28T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/south-sudan-says-sudan-bombed-oil-field-as-bashir-cancels-summit.html
The U.S. and the  African Union 
expressed concern about the conflict between Sudan and  South
Sudan  after planes bombed an oil field in the newly independent
southern state and a meeting between the two countries’ leaders
was canceled following border clashes.  Jean Ping , the Chairman of the Commission of the African
Union (AU), observed “with very deep concern the escalating
security situation along the border between Sudan and South
Sudan, where there has been an outbreak of fighting between the
military forces of Sudan and South Sudan. This includes ground
fighting on both sides of the border and aerial bombardment,”
Ping said in a statement yesterday.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called the fighting
“deeply distressing” and urged both sides to work together to
halt the violence. “We think that the weight of responsibility
rests with Khartoum, because the use of heavy weaponry, bombing
runs by planes and the like are certainly evidence of
disproportionate force on the part of the government in
Khartoum,” Clinton told reporters in  Washington  yesterday.  Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir called off a planned
April 3 meeting with his South Sudanese counterpart,  Salva Kiir ,
because of the fighting, Foreign Ministry spokesman al-Obeid
Murawih said yesterday by phone from Khartoum. The leaders were
due to meet in South Sudan’s new capital, Juba, to sign
agreements on protecting the rights of citizens in both
countries and on border demarcation.  Possible Split  “I think it’s possible that there is a split in
Khartoum,” Jonah Leff, an analyst with the Geneva-based Small
Arms Survey, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“However, Bashir was never comfortable with the idea of
arriving on Juba soil, so I doubt he thought twice about
canceling the trip.”  South  Sudan  on March 26 accused Sudan’s military of bombing
its forces in the disputed area of Jaw along the border between
Unity state and the north’s Southern Kordofan state. South
Sudan’s army spokesman, Philip Aguer, also reported fighting
around the oil-rich area of Heglig.  Sudanese army spokesman Al-Sawarami Khaled denied on March
26 that his forces attacked Jaw and reported “minor clashes”
between the armies.  There was no apparent damage to the oil field that was
attacked in South Sudan’s Unity state, the state’s information
minister, Gideon Gatpan, said yesterday by telephone. Khaled,
the spokesman for Sudan’s army, had his phone switched off when
called seeking comment.  Still Welcome  South Sudan’s government spokesman, Barnaba Marial Benjamin, said yesterday Sudan had not yet informed the
authorities in Juba of its intention to cancel the summit.
Bashir was still welcome, he said.  Benjamin told reporters in Juba that “hawks” within
Sudan’s government were responsible for inciting attacks in
order to derail the  peace process  and prevent Bashir from
visiting South Sudan to meet with Kiir.  The countries have been embroiled in disputes over oil,
borders and citizenship rights since the south gained
independence in July, assuming control of three-quarters of the
formerly united country’s crude output of 490,000 barrels a day.  The crude is pumped mainly by  China National Petroleum
Corp. (CNPZ) ,  Malaysia ’s  Petroliam Nasional Bhd. (PET)  and India’s ONGC
Videsh Ltd.  Members of al-Bashir’s ruling  National Congress Party  (NCP)
are probably bitter about losing control of the oil, Leff said.  “I can imagine that a large proportion of the NCP do not
want to negotiate over the riches that they once controlled,”
he said. “I would expect for them to continue using aggressive
means to recapture the borderlands.”  Two Accords  One of the two accords the presidents had agreed to sign
would have required the formation of a joint committee and
technical team to manage and implement border demarcation.  Pagan Amum, the south’s chief negotiator, told reporters in
Juba on March 25 that the meeting could open the way for a deal
to resume crude production, which South Sudan halted in late
January after accusing Khartoum of stealing its oil.  Khartoum said it confiscated the crude to make up for fees
owed by the landlocked south for use of a pipeline and
processing facilities in its territory.  Sudan and South Sudan signed a non-aggression pact last
month aimed at easing border tensions and stopping support to
militia groups on either side of the border. The agreement has
failed to prevent border clashes, and both sides claimed rebel
militia groups took part in the March 26 attacks.  ‘Continued Fragility’  “What this latest episode does show is the continued
fragility of the North-South relationship, and once more
demonstrates that even with formal agreements in place, volatile
situations can deteriorate very rapidly,” Aly Verjee, a senior
researcher with the Nairobi-based  Rift Valley Institute , said in
an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.  About 1,700 southerners traveling to their newly
independent homeland in more than 100 vehicles were trapped in
Heglig when fighting erupted along the border, the  United
Nations ’ acting humanitarian coordinator for South Sudan, Yasmin
Haque, said yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions.  “We have reports of gunshot wounded patients, mostly
soldiers, having been received in the Bentiu hospital in Unity
today,” she said. “We are trying to confirm if there have been
any civilian casualties.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South Sudan at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  