-- spain house price update
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-03-27T09:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/spain-house-price-update.html
Prices for Spanish  homes  fell 3.4
percent in the first quarter from the previous three months as
the euro area’s fourth-largest economy shrank and reduced
mortgage lending crimped demand, according to Idealista.com.  Sellers cut asking prices for existing homes by an average
of 2.9 percent in Barcelona, 1.9 percent in Madrid and 2.2
percent in Valencia, Idealista,  Spain ’s largest property
website, said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Prices have continued to fall due to difficulty in
obtaining mortgage financing,” said  Fernando Encinar , co-
founder of Idealista. “Legislation passed by the government in
February to push banks to provision for real estate will result
in similar declines over the remaining quarters of the year.”  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is battling to turn around a
slump in the real-estate industry. His government forecasts an
economic contraction of 1.7 percent this year that will push
Spain’s unemployment rate, the European Union’s highest, to 24.3
percent. The government passed a decree in February forcing
Spanish banks to make deeper provisions for losses linked to
real estate in an effort to push down prices and boost sales.  Lenders, which have about 175 billion euros of what the
Bank of Spain terms troubled property assets, will have to take
about 50 billion euros in provisioning costs or capital charges
under the government plan.  Since peaking in 2007,  home prices  in Barcelona, Madrid and
Valencia have fallen 29.6 percent, 21 percent and 30 percent,
respectively, Idealista said. Idealista based its findings on
the analysis of 271,763 existing homes for sale
across Spain.  Spanish residential mortgages fel1 for the 21st month in
January, dropping 41.3 percent from a year earlier, the National
Statistics Institute in  Madrid  said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  