-- Spanish Economy Enters Second Recession, Bank of Spain Says
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-03-27T13:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/spanish-economy-enters-second-recession-bank-of-spain-says-1-.html
Spain ’s economy is suffering its
second recession since 2009, the Bank of Spain said, a
development that obstructs the government’s efforts to reorder
public finances as it prepares the budget for this year.  “The most recent information for the start of 2012
confirms the prolongation of the contraction in output,” the
Madrid-based central bank said in its monthly bulletin today.  Spain’s gross domestic  product  declined 0.3 percent in the
fourth quarter of last year, less than two years after emerging
from the last recession. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  will
present his 2012 budget on March 30, amid growing pressure from
investors and European peers to rein in the deficit, which was
8.5 percent of GDP last year.  The spending plan, his first since coming to power in
December, won’t increase tax on consumption nor cut civil
servants’ salaries, Rajoy said today in  Seoul . The previous
administration slashed wages of public workers by an average 5
percent in 2010.  Rajoy, who leads the pro-business People’s Party, hasn’t
said where he will cut spending, even as he pledged today to
present a budget that is “very austere.”  Concern about the country’s ability to tackle the euro
area’s fourth-largest budget deficit hurt demand for Spanish
notes at an auction today as the Treasury sold less than its
maximum target of 3 billion euros.  Bond Yields  The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond was 5.356
percent at 1:40 p.m. in Madrid, 14 basis points lower than a 12-
week high of 5.494 percent reached on March 22.  Spain is considering allowing regional governments to issue
debt jointly to save 1 billion euros a year in borrowing costs
and enable the regions to regain access to funding, Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos said today.  Spain’s three largest regions, Catalonia, Valencia and
Andalusia, that together account for 42 percent of its economy,
are shut out of financial markets. The spread between Catalan
and Spanish debt maturing in 2020 was more than 4 percentage
points today.  De Guindos said the country’s economic situation will
remain “very difficult” until the end of the first half. The
government forecasts a stabilization after the second quarter
and some improvement by the end of the year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  