-- Stanford’s Taylor Says Fed Activism Puts Independence at Risk
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-03-27T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/stanford-s-taylor-says-fed-activism-puts-independence-at-risk.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s aggressive
monetary policy is “endangering” the independence of the
central bank, Stanford University economist  John Taylor  told
members of the Joint Economic Committee today.  Taylor testified at a committee hearing on a bill written
by Representative  Kevin Brady , a Texas Republican, that would
alter the structure and goals of the  Federal Reserve System .
Known as the “Sound Dollar Act of 2012,” the bill would move
the Fed to a single goal of stable prices, eliminating a second
mandate to balance that with full employment. It would also
amend the Federal Reserve Act to give all 12 district presidents
a vote on  Federal Open Market Committee , instead of five today.  “This is about getting the role of the Federal Reserve
right going forward,” Brady said in an interview. “I don’t
think, looking ahead, that the Fed should be balancing mandates.
It should have a clear one from Congress.”  The bill, which has 28 co-sponsors Brady said, would
require support from the House Financial Services Committee,
which has oversight authority over the Fed. No hearing at the
House committee has been scheduled yet, Brady said.  The legislation shows the continuing interest by some
members of Congress to further constrain the central bank, which
will celebrate its 100th anniversary next year. The Senate’s
ranking Republican,  Mitch McConnell , and House speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, asked Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
in a September letter to “resist further extraordinary
intervention in the  U.S. economy .”  Benchmark Rate  U.S. central bankers have held the benchmark  lending rate 
near zero since 2008 and purchased $2.3 trillion in bonds,
including mortgage-backed securities, to spur growth.  “The discretionary interventions of the Federal Reserve
have been ratcheted up in such unprecedented ways in recent
years that they raise fundamental questions about the future of
monetary policy,” Taylor said in his testimony.  “The fact that the Fed can, if it chooses, intervene
without limit into any credit market -- not only mortgage backed
securities but also securities backed by automobile loans, or
even  student loans  -- raises more uncertainty, and of course
raises questions about why an independent agency of government
should have such power,” Taylor said in prepared testimony. The
Stanford economist was a U.S. Treasury undersecretary for
international affairs from 2001 to 2005, and in prior years
served on the President’s Council of Economic Advisers.  Lawmakers also heard testimony from former Fed Governor
 Laurence Meyer , who was on the central bank’s board from June
1996 to January 2002.  ‘Clearly Partisan’  “Some of the provisions of this bill appear to me clearly
partisan,” Meyer said in prepared testimony. “Please recognize
that the greatest threat to the stability of long-term inflation
expectations is an assault on the independence of the Fed’s
monetary policy decisions.”  He said the expansion of the Fed’s balance sheet to $2.9
trillion in total assets does “not risk soaring inflation”
because the central bank has the tools to drain bank reserves
when necessary. Meyer said he prefers retaining the Fed’s dual
mandate.  Meyer said he also opposed giving the Fed’s 12 presidents a
permanent vote on monetary policy since they are “appointed by
unelected and unrepresentative boards” while the members of the
board of governors are nominated by the president of the U.S.
and confirmed by the Senate. His opposition was echoed in
testimony by  William Poole , a former president of the St. Louis
Fed who would have had a permanent vote on monetary policy under
the legislation.  ‘Worked Satisfactorily’  “Current arrangements have worked satisfactorily and the
clarity of ultimate political control from Washington is
appropriate,” Poole, who also testified at the hearing, said in
prepared remarks. Poole is a senior fellow at the Cato
Institute, a scholar in residence at the University of  Delaware 
and an adviser to Merk Investments LLC.  Poole said he “strongly” supported the legislation’s push
to restrict the Fed from purchasing assets other than U.S.
Treasury securities for the central bank’s System Open Market
Account. Without this restriction, the Fed can venture into
policies that ought to be the responsibility of Congress, he
said.  “The bottom line is that use of the credit resources of
the U.S. government should be decided by Congress and not by an
appointed body such as the Federal Reserve,” Poole said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 