-- Stasi’s Secret Quest for Czar’s Amber Room Cost Millions
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-03-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/stasi-s-secret-quest-for-czar-s-lost-amber-room-cost-millions.html
The Amber Room in the Catherine
Palace of Tsarskoye Selo near  St. Petersburg  was known as the
Eighth Wonder of the World before it was dismantled and shipped
off in crates by German troops during World War II.  Designed by the German Baroque sculptor Andreas Schlueter
and crafted by Russian and German workers in Prussia, its first
home was Berlin’s royal palace, where Peter the Great of  Russia 
exclaimed in wonder at it. King Friedrich Wilhelm I, courting
Russia’s help in defending Prussia from the Swedes, gave the
amber panels to the czar, who first installed them in the Winter
Palace at St. Petersburg in 1717.  In 1755, the Amber Room moved to the Summer Palace at
Tsarskoye Selo. There it stayed until June 1941, when the
invading German army packed it up and sent it west.  Erich Koch, the regional Nazi chief in East Prussia,
emerged victorious in the ensuing tussle among leading Nazi art
looters for the booty, and ordered it to be transported to
Koenigsberg, now Kaliningrad. It was put on temporary display in
the royal palace. After suffering superficial damage in a fire
in 1944, the panels were packed into boxes once more.  From 1945 onwards, history gives way to myths and
conspiracy theories, lies and educated guesses, half-memories
and wild rumors. The German historian Mario Morgner investigated
the files of the Stasi, the East German spy agency, to delve
into its own secret quest for the Amber Room.  Codenamed “Pushkin,” the Stasi operation cost millions of
marks, spanned decades and turned up little more than a pair of
gumboots and a rusty weapon.  Morgner has put his findings in a book, “Geheimsache
Bernsteinzimmer,” (Secret File Amber Room), published by
 Tauchaer Verlag  and priced 9.95 euros ($13.25).  He spoke in a phone interview from Rodewisch, a village
south of Leipzig near the Czech border and the Ore Mountains.  Hickley: Why was the Stasi so convinced that the Amber Room
survived and could be found?  Morgner: The Stasi was convinced right until 1989 that it
still existed and conducted an extensive search. There were two
alternative theories -- one was that it left Koenigsberg with
Erich Koch’s private art collection, the other was that it was
hidden in the mountains of East Prussia. There was no evidence
to support either theory; it was just speculation.  Hickley: That Stasi search was thorough and expensive,
according to your book. Why was East  Germany  so determined to
find the Amber Room?  Morgner: It would have been a political triumph for East
Germany. From a propaganda point of view, it would have helped
to promote its self-image as the better Germany. It was a matter
for the state, whereas in the west, only private treasure
seekers took up the search.  Conman  Hickley: Your book tracks five men the Stasi thought may
have known something about the Amber Room, including one who was
clearly a conman and a liar.  Morgner: Yes, Manfred Keiluweit is to me the most
fascinating character in the story. He came up with information
no one else had, yet it all seemed lacking in credibility on
closer inspection.  Hickley: Did the Stasi actually conduct secret excavations
for the treasure as well as questioning people?  Morgner: Oh, yes. There were about 120 locations that were
opened up -- old mines, depots, etc., mainly in the Ore
Mountains. Nothing much was found except for old rubber boots
and rusting weapons. No trace of the Amber Room.  Hickley: What do you think happened to it?  Morgner: I think it stayed where it was -- in Koenigsberg,
most likely, or perhaps in eastern Prussia.  3-D Puzzle  Hickley: After 65 years, would there be anything left?  Morgner: It would probably be a huge 3-D puzzle,
interesting for art historians to look at to see the
craftsmanship, but probably impossible to put back together
again. The amber itself is indestructible. It can burn and it
darkens with time, but it doesn’t decay.  Hickley: Is it possible that someone knew where it was all
along, and sold it piece by piece? Could women around the world
unknowingly be wearing jewelry made of the Amber Room?  Morgner: In the 1950s and 1960s, the Stasi talked to lots
of East German jewelry makers and sellers to find out whether
large quantities of amber had appeared on the market. That
proved not to be the case.  Hickley: Your book contains tips for treasure seekers --
what they should examine more closely, what may be red herrings.
Are there still so many people looking for the Amber Room?  Morgner: There are treasure seekers all over Germany. Some
groups work more intensively, others more part-time. They
stretch from  Saxony  over to Bavaria, where there are a couple of
groups who work in secret, and all the way down to  Austria .  Yet no one so far has been able to explain, with evidence,
how the Amber Room would have come to this region -- no
documents have yet come to light. Of course, there may be some
still hidden away in an archive.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 