-- Stockland Shares Drop After Profit Forecast Cut: Sydney Mover
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-03-27T05:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/stockland-shares-drop-after-profit-forecast-cut-sydney-mover.html
Stockland,  Australia ’s third-
biggest property trust by market value, dropped to the lowest in
more than five months after cutting its full-year earnings
forecast.  The  shares  dropped 4.5 percent to A$3 at the close of
trading in Sydney, the lowest since Oct. 6 and the second-
largest decline on the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index today.  Profit in the year ending June 30 will be 30.5 cents a
share, down from an earlier forecast of 31.6 cents, the Sydney-
based company said today in a statement to the Australian stock
exchange.  The reduction “highlights the significant impact a weaker
residential market can have on group earnings,” analysts led by
John Meredith at Morgan Stanley wrote in an e-mailed note.
“With weaker conditions persisting and no interest rate relief
for now coming through, we believe this heightens the risk of
asset impairments by fiscal year 2012 results in August.”  Slower sales from a stalling housing market, mortgage rate
increases by banks and prolonged wet weather have pushed
settlements expected in 2012 into the next fiscal year, the
company said today in the statement. Sales for the rest of this
fiscal year will continue to be slow, it said.  “We started to see, in the first week of March, a marked
shift in buyer sentiment,”  Stockland (SGP)  Managing Director Matthew Quinn said today on a conference call. Any potential rate cuts
by the central bank would be “unlikely to achieve any increase
in sales that would result in settlements this financial year.”  Stockland shares have fallen 6 percent this year, compared
with a 6 percent gain in the benchmark.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  