-- Strauss-Kahn Charged With ‘Non-Existent Crimes,’ Lawyer Says
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-03-27T15:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/strauss-kahn-charged-with-non-existent-crimes-lawyer-says-1-.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn , former head
of the  International Monetary Fund , didn’t commit a crime and
will fight charges brought against him by French judges tied to
a probe of a prostitution ring, his lawyer said.  “These are non-existent crimes” under French law, his
lawyer  Henri Leclerc  said at a press conference in Paris today.
“All that he is really being accused of is a libertine
existence, which is shocking. This is an injustice and an attack
on personal liberty.”  Strauss-Kahn will appeal restrictions imposed on him
against discussing the case in the press to a court overseeing
investigations and the idea that the criminal code covers his
libertine behavior, his lawyer said.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, was charged yesterday in the Northern
French city of Lille in the so-called Carlton affair, named for
the local hotel where the prostitution investigation began. He
is accused of actively participating in the ring, organizing sex
parties. The charge could result in a sentence of as long as 20
years in prison and 3 million euros ($4 million) in fines under
the French  penal code .  Strauss-Kahn denied knowing the women were prostitutes, so
the only reason for reproach is a moral one, not a criminal one,
Leclerc said at a press conference in Paris today.  “There is no serious way to show that Strauss-Kahn knew
these young women were being paid,” he said, adding the women
were told by the men paying them not to tell anyone they were
hired. “There was no act of enabling prostitution, just a
classic relation between a man and a prostitute.”  Paying for sex is legal in  France . Procuring prostitutes
for someone else isn’t.  Friends of Friends  Strauss-Kahn attended two to three “libertine parties” a
year, with “friends and women who were friends of his
friends,” Leclerc said. “Young women dressed in seductive
clothing at a party” aren’t necessarily giving away that
they’re prostitutes.  The charges followed a closed-door meeting yesterday
between Strauss-Kahn and the three judges leading the probe. The
former presidential hopeful was ordered not to contact other
people involved in the case, including the eight other people
charged, witnesses and the press, according to a statement by
Lille prosecutors. He was released on a 100,000-euro bond.  In addition to disputing the criminality of the behavior,
Leclerc described the ban on speaking to the media about the
case as an attack on his human rights.  U.S. Case  The former IMF managing director gave up his post last year
after being arrested in  New York  on charges he sexually
assaulted a hotel maid. Local prosecutors dropped that case
because of concerns about his accuser’s credibility and Strauss-
Kahn returned to France, where he faced a separate accusation of
attempted rape, which was also dropped.  Tomorrow, a hearing in New York state court in the Bronx is
scheduled in the civil suit of Nafissatou Diallo, the maid who
said Strauss-Kahn tried to rape her. His lawyers asked New York
State Supreme Court Justice Douglas E. McKeon to dismiss the
case, arguing Strauss-Kahn should have diplomatic immunity.  His lawyers declined to comment today on how the French
case could impact the U.S. lawsuit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at   hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  