-- Strategic Oil Use Would Have Small Impact on Gasoline, IHS Says
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-03-27T20:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/strategic-oil-use-would-have-small-impact-on-gasoline-ihs-says.html
Releasing crude from the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve would have a limited impact in lowering U.S.
gasoline prices, James Burkhard, managing director at IHS-
Cambridge Energy Research Associates, told lawmakers.  The Obama administration should leave the emergency
inventory for supply disruptions, such as a loss of output tied
to tensions over  Iran’s nuclear program , Burkhard said in
remarks prepared for a House Committee on Energy and Commerce
hearing tomorrow.  “If the SPR is used to influence the price of gasoline, it
is a blunt instrument with limited prospects for a lasting
impact,” Burkhard said in remarks posted on the committee
website. “The original purpose of the SPR was not to manage
prices -- an extremely daunting challenge even under benign
conditions -- but to help address a major oil supply disruption
from the Persian Gulf.”  The committee led by Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan
Republican, will consider a bill tomorrow forcing the
administration to plan for increased oil production on federal
lands when withdrawing oil from the inventories.  The U.S. continue to weigh using the stockpile an option to
ease potential supply restrictions, Charles McConnell, acting
assistant secretary for fossil energy at the Energy Department,
said today.  Democrats led by Representative Ed Markey of  Massachusetts 
urged the use of emergency inventories to “prevent a runaway
increase in prices,” according to a letter he sent with Rosa DeLauro of  Connecticut  and  Peter Welch  of Vermont to President
Barack Obama on March 16.  The average price for unleaded gasoline at the pump climbed
about 19 percent so far this year to $3.90 a gallon yesterday,
according to AAA  data .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  