-- Subprime Bulls Trim Bets as Rally Raises 2011 Specter: Mortgages
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-03-28T14:29:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/subprime-bulls-trim-bets-as-rally-raises-2011-specter-mortgages.html
A rally in the mortgage securities
that blew up in the crash of 2008 is leading firms to trim bets
in the $1.1 trillion market for home-loan bonds without
government backing after similar gains a year ago evaporated.  Some of the securities are up 12 percent this year, and
have been outperforming the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index,
 corporate bonds  and gold. Western Asset Management Co. and Pine
River Capital Management LP have sold after starting 2012 among
the most bullish on the debt. In last year’s rally, the notes
gained the same amount to peak in February before crashing as
 Europe ’s fiscal crisis curbed risk-taking across markets.  “The memory of what happened after the first quarter of
2011 is still fresh, so the natural instinct is to take some
chips off the table after such a strong rally,” said Alex Cha,
a partner at hedge fund 400 Capital Management LLC in New York.
“Compared to the beginning of the year, all risky assets are
more susceptible to re-pricing lower should we start getting
macro noise again.”  Investing in non-agency mortgage securities has proven
profitable this year after concern eased that Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis would spiral out of control, the Federal Reserve
sold $19.2 billion of debt underscoring demand and Wall Street
banks started adding to inventories after dumping notes in 2011.
Bondholders are wary of a repeat of last year’s rout with German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  this week citing “fragility” in  Spain 
and  Portugal  and Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  saying improvement
in the job market may not be sustained.  ‘Intense Rally’  Western Asset, which oversees about $443 billion, is paring
investments in non-agency securities after “an intense rally,”
said Paul Jablansky, co-head of the Pasadena, California-based
firm’s mortgage group. The Legg Mason Inc. unit is replacing the
debt with notes such as high-yield corporate bonds, he said.  The firm probably sold more than $1 billion in face value
of the securities last week, according to  Empirasign Strategies 
LLC in New York. The provider of information on securitized-debt
trading based that assessment on auction lists from dealers and
public reports on the firm’s holdings.  Jablansky, who declined to comment on any sales, said the
firm continues to hold more non-agency securities than other
managers amid signs that  housing  is nearing a bottom.  “While we think the market is long-term attractive, we’ve
taken this opportunity to rebalance a little bit and realize
some gains,” Jablansky said in a March 19 telephone interview.  Pine River Reduces  Pine River told investors in its $2.2 billion fixed-income
hedge fund in a letter this month that “we have gradually
reduced our exposure to lock in gains.”  The Minnetonka, Minnesota-based firm continues to see
potential upside, “especially relative to corporate credit,”
it said in the letter.  Asset-Backed Alert  reported the contents
on March 23.  Steve Kuhn, the firm’s head of fixed-income trading,
declined to comment. It gained 8.5 percent in the first two
months of the year with non-agency securities representing its
largest investments, according to the letter.  Typical prices for the most-senior bonds tied to option
adjustable-rate mortgage rose to 57 cents on the dollar last
week from 51 cents in December, according to Barclays Plc data.
That compares with 65 cents in February 2011 and the record low
of 33 cents in 2009.  Bonds backed by Alt-A ARMs rose to 52 cents on the dollar,
from 48 cents in December. That debt had fallen from 68 cents,
after rising from 35 cents in 2009. Fixed-rate prime-jumbo bonds
climbed to 91 cents from 89 cents, matching last year’s high
reached after an advance from 63 cents in 2009.  Flip Properties  Option ARMs allow borrowers to pay less than the interest
they owe by increasing their balances. Alt-A loans often went to
borrowers who didn’t document pay or planned to flip properties,
while jumbo mortgages are larger than allowed in government-
backed programs, currently $417,000 in most places.  The  S&P 500  gained 11.6 percent this year through last
week, assuming reinvested dividends, while U.S. corporate bonds
returned 2.9 percent and gold advanced 6.3 percent.  Mortgage debt has climbed even as  home prices  set new lows
since beginning to collapse in 2006. An S&P/Case-Shiller index
of property values in 20 cities dropped in January to the lowest
since December 2002, down 34.4 percent from July 2006, a report
yesterday showed. Recent  declines  are slowing, pointing to
stabilization.  Potential Challenges  Potential challenges loom from several million homes in the
“ shadow inventory ” tied to defaulted or delinquent loans that
may be sold, said Youriy Koudinov, a director in structured-
finance research at New York-based TIAA-CREF, the $441 billion
manager of retirement accounts for employees of non-profits.
Mortgage servicers are also increasing their use of principal
reductions when reworking loans, which may either damage or
benefit bondholders, he said.  While Europe’s debt crisis has been contained after the
 European Central Bank  extended 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion)
of loans to banks, stresses in the market remain. The three-
month London interbank offered rate has held at about 0.47
percent every day in March, after sliding from this year’s high
of 0.58 percent on Jan. 3.  “Investors need to be cautious when the market begins to
base return expectations on scenarios that may not price in a
material probability of adverse-performance outcomes,” Koudinov
said. ‘We cannot be focused only on the positives.”  AIG Rescue  This year, those included the  Federal Reserve  Bank of New
York selling assets assumed in its rescue of insurer American
International Group Inc. The transactions fetched about $10
billion, according to disclosures by the central bank.  In contrast, the New York Fed last year helped spark a rout
in credit markets when it began auctioning off the bonds. The
selloff intensified as investor concern grew that Europe’s debt
crisis would infect bank balance sheets globally.  Buying and selling in the debt, which seized up last year
when investment banks cut inventories amid the sovereign default
concern and pending regulatory changes to increase capital, has
also revived.  Total trading  averaged  $3.3 billion per day this year
through last week, compared with $1.7 billion in the second half
of 2011, according to data reported to regulators and compiled
by Empirasign.  Improved liquidity is helping an Apollo Global Management
LLC real estate investment trust adjust its holdings.  “We’ve taken advantage of the strong bid provided by the
market to upgrade certain of our non-agency positions as we
swapped into some bonds with an even more stable profile than
what we had owned,” Apollo Residential Mortgage Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Michael Commaroto said on a March 7 conference
call with analysts.  Adding to Bets  While Neuberger Berman Group LLC’s Tom Sontag has also sold
a few individual notes that “had run up in price perhaps a bit
too much,” he’s adding to bets on the bonds in most accounts he
oversees. The Chicago-based bond manager prefers them to high-
yield alternatives such as speculative-grade corporate debt, he
said.  “Would you rather buy bonds with an 8 percent yield that
takes into account the fact that you are going to have losses,
or a 7 percent yield that assumes perfection,” Sontag said.
“To me it doesn’t say screaming sell,” he said.  Loss-adjusted yields in “base scenarios” among senior
non-agency bonds range from 12 percent for some option ARM debt
to 4.5 percent for certain prime-jumbo bonds, according to Bank
of America Corp. analysts, who wrote in a March 25 report that
“despite our improved expectations for the housing market, we
feel that most of the sectors are at or near fair value.”  Yields on government-backed agency mortgage securities
average 2.79 percent, with U.S. speculative-grade company debt
at 7.2 percent, according to Barclays index data.  MFA Persists  MFA Financial Inc. (MFA) , the New York-based REIT that invests
in both agency and non-agency mortgage debt, hasn’t changed the
mix as a result of the gains in the latter securities, President
William Gorin said.  “Even with the change in prices we prefer the non-agency
because of the absolute yield differential,” Gorin said in a
telephone interview.  Most of the recent selling in the non-agency market has
come from mortgage specialists, while much of the interest in
purchasing the debt has come from private-equity funds and
“yield buyers” such as insurers, 400 Capital’s Cha said.  While Cha declined to comment on his firm’s investments, he
said that “on an absolute basis, and certainly on a relative
basis, this sector continues to look attractive.”  There’s a “disparity” of approaches being taken by  hedge
funds  that target the debt after the rally, said Troy Gayeski,
who helps invest approximately $3 billion of client money in the
vehicles as senior portfolio manager at SkyBridge Capital LLC in
 New York . Many are reducing positions or adding to hedges, such
as bets that stocks or corporate bonds will suffer, and are
doing so in a “marginal” way, he said.  Others “that are not quite as long are making an argument
that the market got demolished last year, and it still has a lot
of room to run,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  