-- Suzlon Cash Crunch Worsens as Edison Payment Trails Debt
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-03-28T10:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/suzlon-cash-crunch-worsens-as-edison-payment-trails-debt.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ’s ability to
repay $700 million of debt may be worse than expected after U.S.
customer  Edison International (EIX)  said the earliest it’ll pay off a
contract with the turbine-maker is next year.  Suzlon, the third-biggest wind-turbine maker by sales, said
last month that it hoped to recoup a $206 million payment from
Edison before June when the first of its  foreign-currency
convertible bonds  matures. Edison’s latest 10-K filing said the
soonest that could happen is next February.  “Suzlon’s cash crunch seems more severe than expected,”
Charanjit Singh, alternative energy analyst in Bangalore for
HSBC Bank Plc, said yesterday. Singh estimates the company may
fall short by as much as 30 billion rupees ($592 million) in
repaying $700 million of debt due over the next 12 months.  Edison Mission Group, the unit that bought Suzlon turbines,
and Suzlon declined in e-mails over the last week to elaborate
on whether Edison may pay part of the $206 million to Suzlon
prior to February, saying the agreement is confidential.  “On the broader issue of managing our debt, we continue to
be confident of meeting all our obligations,” Suzlon said
yesterday in an e-mail.  The payment issue centers over Edison’s 240-megawatt Big
Sky wind farm in  Illinois , financed by Suzlon with a loan in
October 2009 that has a “final maturity” in 2014, according to
its Feb. 29 filing. Early repayment could happen “as early as
February 2013,” Edison said.  Attempts to Collect  Suzlon has been trying to collect from Edison since at
least May 2010, when Chief Financial Officer  Robin Banerjee  said
payment was expected later that year. Questioned by analysts on
Feb. 13, Kirti Vagadia, head of corporate finance, said Suzlon
may collect “even in this quarter.”  The company may face $389 million in bond redemptions this
year if investors holding its convertible notes choose not to
swap them for shares. The stock closed today 72 percent below
the conversion price of the zero-coupon bond due June.  Suzlon may have 7.5 billion rupees less than it needs to
pay bondholders in June, HSBC’s Singh said. That’s based on
Suzlon’s  cash flow  excluding that of its German unit Repower
Systems SE.  The yield on that note rose 3.4 percent today, according to
data from Cantor Fitzgerald LP. Suzlon shares closed at their
lowest in a month, declining 2 percent to 26.9 rupees in Mumbai.  Sell a Stake?  Suzlon may seek options to raise cash such as selling a
stake in other businesses or getting dividends or advances from
Repower, Singh said yesterday. Suzlon can’t tap 750 million
euros in financing raised by Repower on Feb. 29 to pay off debt,
Repower said in an e-mail last week to Bloomberg News.  Suzlon plans to raise $100 million selling “non-core”
assets, Vagadia said. The company has $100 million of cash and
expects $250 million more in free cash flow from operations over
the next 12 months excluding the Edison payment, he said.  The Pune-based company has met  France ’s Alstom SA, General
Electric Co. and  Siemens AG (SIE) , which may bid for Suzlon’s Repower
Systems SE unit, the Wall Street Journal reported on March 15.  Alstom and Suzlon denied the report. Siemens won’t buy
Repower, Siemens board member Michael Suess told the Journal on
March 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  