-- Sweden Will Need to Follow EU on Capital Rules, Nordea CEO Says
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-03-27T14:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/sweden-will-need-to-follow-eu-on-capital-rules-nordea-ceo-says.html
Sweden will need to comply with any
potential European Union decisions when setting  capital
requirements , the head of  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  said.  Sweden in November told its four biggest banks to target
higher capital buffers than those set by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  and to reach the goals six years earlier
than Basel’s 2019 deadline. The government has said tighter
standards are needed to ensure taxpayers are protected from the
risk of losses.  “If the EU takes a decision everyone will have to comply,
also the ones with lower ratios will have to come up,” Chief
Executive Officer  Christian Clausen  said today in an interview
in Oslo. “Of course everyone will have to comply.”  Sweden has proposed its banks bring their core Tier 1
capital ratios -- a measure of financial strength -- to at least
10 percent of their risk-weighted assets by next year. That
ratio needs to rise by 2 percentage points by 2015. Basel sets a
minimum target of 7 percent by 2019, while the EU has a 9
percent target for this year.  The 12 percent ratio will be an “excessive burden on the
economy,” Clausen said. The Stockholm-based bank, in a new
forecast issued today, predicted the largest Nordic economy will
contract 0.3 percent this year amid an export slump.  Talking 10%  “The rest of  Europe  is talking about 10 percent right
now,” he said. “The discussion among finance ministers is to
put a maximum of 10 percent right now and if that goes through,
most countries in Europe will agree on that.”  Sweden will be able to impose stricter capital standards on
its own, according to Jonatan Holst, a spokesman at the
country’s Financial Supervisory Authority. Regardless of what
the EU decides, the country can use powers under so-called
pillar 2 to force banks to set aside more capital to reflect
risk, he said by phone.  Pillar 2 allows regulators to assess risk based on possible
future losses.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josiane Kremer at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net  