-- Swiss Stocks Decline as U.S. Consumer Confidence Slides
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-03-27T15:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/swiss-stocks-advance-before-report-on-u-s-house-prices.html
Swiss stocks  declined for the sixth
time in seven days, led by losses in  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  and  Nestle SA (NESN) ,
after a report showed confidence among U.S. consumers dropped
this month.  Holcim, the world’s second-largest cement maker, sank 3
percent after selling treasury stock. Nestle, the biggest food
maker, slipped 0.4 percent.  Basilea Pharmaceutica (BSLN)  jumped 6
percent after Helvea AG said the company may enter a partnership
with another drugmaker on an antibiotic.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of  Switzerland ’s largest
and most actively traded companies, fell 0.2 percent to 6,269.38
at the close in Zurich. The gauge has still  rallied 5.6 percent 
this year as U.S. economic reports beat estimates and optimism
grew that the euro area’s debt crisis can be contained. The
broader Swiss Performance Index also lost 0.2 percent today.  “We’ve gotten to a point with the markets where there’s a
bit of resistance setting in,” said  Mike Lenhoff , head of
research at Brewin Dolphin Securities Ltd. in London. Investors
“realize they’ve done very well on the back of positive news
flow, but that can only take them so far.”  The number of shares changing hands on the SMI was 8.5
percent lower than the 30-day average, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The New York-based Conference Board’s U.S. consumer
confidence index dropped to 70.2 in March from a revised 71.6
reading in February that was higher than initially reported. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called
for a decrease to 70.  U.S. Housing  House prices  in 20 U.S. cities fell at a slower pace in
January. The  Standard & Poor’s/Case-Shiller index  dropped 3.8
percent from a year earlier, matching the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  A gauge of Swiss  consumer demand  declined for a second
month in February, UBS said. The consumption indicator, which
signals developments about three months ahead, slipped to 0.87
points from a revised 0.93 points in January. UBS had previously
reported a January reading of 0.92 points.  Holcim dropped 3 percent to 59.30 francs, the largest
decline in three weeks. The company raised 296 million francs
($327 million) by selling a 1.5 percent stake of treasury stock
at 59.25 francs a share to improve its finances.  Nestle, the biggest stock in the SMI, retreated 0.4 percent
to 56.75 francs.  Basilea jumped 6 percent to 52.05 francs after Olav Zilian,
an analyst at Helvea, said the Swiss drugmaker may enter a
partnership with a large pharmaceutical company such as
GlaxoSmithKline Plc or a mid-sized one such as Cubist
Pharmaceuticals Inc. on an experimental antibiotic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  