-- Assad’s Acceptance of UN Plan Will Be Tested by Actions
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-03-28T08:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/syria-s-assad-accepts-kofi-annan-s-un-backed-plan-for-cease-fire.html
Western diplomats cast doubt on
whether Syrian President Bashar al-Assad will deliver on his
acceptance of United Nations envoy  Kofi Annan ’s peace plan.  The violence continued with opposition groups reporting 70
people killed yesterday, as the special Mideast coordinator for
the UN said the death toll from a year of unrest exceeds 9,000.  “We will judge Assad’s sincerity and seriousness by what
he does, not by what he says,” Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday. “If he is ready to bring this dark
chapter in Syria’s history to a close, he can prove it by
immediately ordering regime forces to stop firing and begin
withdrawing from populated areas.”  Hours after Annan received a letter of agreement from
Assad’s government yesterday, ambassadors from the UN Security
Council spoke about the six-point peace plan, which includes
demands for a UN-supervised cease-fire, secure access for
humanitarian missions and a Syrian-led transition to democracy.
Annan, who is scheduled to brief the council April 2, called on
Assad to put his plan “into immediate effect.”  “We have to remain cautious,”  Germany ’s ambassador to the
UN, Peter Wittig, told reporters. “Syria has in the past a
history of credibility gaps.”  Gerard Araud , the French envoy,
said that when trusting Assad’s word, the “proof of the pudding
is in the eating.”  9,000 Dead  Efforts to resolve the yearlong conflict have so far
failed, with Russia and  China  twice blocking resolutions in the
15-member council against Assad, whose battle to preserve his
family’s four-decade hold on power has killed more than 9,000
Syrians, according to the estimate yesterday by Robert Serry,
the UN special coordinator for the Middle East peace process.  Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  told reporters
on a flight from  Seoul  to Tehran that he doesn’t believe Assad
will implement the Annan plan, Hurriyet reported today. During a
meeting in the South Korean capital,  Turkey ’s premier also
pressed Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  to help end the
violence in Syria, according to the Istanbul-based newspaper.  Erdogan arrived in Tehran today for talks with top Iranian
officials that will include discussions on the Persian Gulf
country’s nuclear program, the official  Islamic Republic News
Agency  reported.  Political Prisoner Release  In  Washington , Clinton told reporters that Assad should
fulfill all elements of Annan’s plan, which includes allowing
international aid workers unfettered access, releasing political
prisoners, permitting the international news media unobstructed
access and beginning a “legitimate political process that leads
to a democratic transition.”  If that happens, she said, Annan has pledged to work with
the regime’s opponents “so that there won’t be violence coming
from opposition forces.”  Britain’s Foreign Secretary  William Hague  also expressed
doubts about Assad’s intentions. “We will continue to judge the
Syrian regime by its practical actions, not by its often-empty
words,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  Morocco’s UN Ambassador Mohammed Loulichki, currently the
only Arab representative on the council, said he hoped “this
will be the beginning of some dynamic that will trigger good
news.”  “It’s a step forward,” Russian Deputy Foreign Minister
Gennady Gatilov said in a Twitter message. “Now it’s the
opposition’s turn.”  Intense Campaign  Opposition reports from  Syria  say that government forces
killed 70 people in continuing fighting yesterday. That included
40 in the northwestern opposition stronghold of Idlib and five
in the suburbs of Damascus, according to the Local Coordination
Committees, an opposition group.  Assad promised in a visit to the district of Baba Amr in
Homs that the residential area, which witnessed an intense
military campaign, will be rebuilt. The Syrian leader was shown
on state television ordering swift work to restore normality in
the city.  Assad may eventually be forced to stand down, Annan told
reporters on March 26 in Moscow, “but it’s not up to me, it’s
up to the Syrians.” Medvedev said it’s “shortsighted” to
think that ousting Assad will resolve the country’s problems.  Russia won’t take part in an April 1 meeting in Istanbul of
Western and Arab nations on Syria, Foreign Ministry spokesman
Alexander Lukashevich told reporters in Moscow yesterday. The
self-described Friends of Syria group has urged stronger
international efforts to support Annan’s mission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  