-- Syria Cease-Fire Deal Is Flawed, but U.S. Should Back It
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-27T23:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/syria-cease-fire-deal-is-flawed-but-u-s-should-back-it.html
Syria ’s President Bashar al-Assad
on Tuesday accepted a United Nations-backed plan to end the
bloodshed he is inflicting on his country.  The plan is a lowest common denominator, repugnant to
Syria’s opposition and one of several proposals Assad has
accepted over the past year, only to ignore them. It’s also the
best option available.  A good vantage point from which to gauge Syria’s options
Tuesday was a hotel in a suburb of Istanbul, where Turkey and
Qatar had corralled more than 300 members of Syria’s fractious
opposition. The message they received was clear: Unite, because
if you don’t, it’s hard to see how the outside world can do much
to help you on April 1 when the Friends of Syria group meets to
discuss next steps.  Uniting turned out to be tough. The delegates tried to
agree on a National Covenant, it took hours longer than
expected, and ethnic Kurdish delegates walked out, unwilling to
sign a document that didn’t offer more explicit recognition,
equality and protections to Kurds. Their message was clear: Yes,
more than 8,000 people have been killed over the past year, but
unless clear guarantees are in place for minorities, things
could get a whole lot worse after the regime falls.  That is the heart of the problem in Syria: As appalling as
Assad’s butchery has become, as badly as the world may want to
help stop it and bring him to justice, there aren’t enough tools
available right now to ensure that, in a country riven by
sectarian and ethnic tensions, the outcome of more active
intervention isn’t even worse. That goes for Syria itself, and
for the wider region, so long as Assad retains the support of
Russia and  Iran .  We’ve argued before that arming the opposition would only
escalate the conflict and casualty rate, with little prospect of
defeating Assad’s military on the ground. So what about a Libya-
style international intervention from the air, as U.S. Senator
 John McCain  has urged?  This month, when the Pentagon’s top brass appeared before a
hearing of the Senate Armed Forces Committee to talk about
Syria, the answers from Secretary of Defense  Leon Panetta  and
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Martin Dempsey
made it all too clear why the U.S. military is reluctant to act.  First, unlike in Libya there is no United Nations Security
Council resolution to support intervention. Second, Syria has a
large stockpile of chemical and biological weapons that could
disappear in a likely breakdown of order -- Dempsey assessed
that risk at 100 times greater than in  Libya . Third, Syria’s air
defenses are five times more sophisticated than Libya’s and are
concentrated in densely populated areas, making civilian
casualties inevitable. Fourth, Syria’s military is better
trained, better equipped and more disciplined than Muammar
Qaddafi’s loyalists were. And fifth, Syria’s opposition -- an
archipelago of 100 armed groups, with no central command -- is
even less united than was Libya’s.  That leaves us with the plan drawn up by former UN
Secretary General  Kofi Annan , which critically if perhaps
cynically has been accepted by Russia and  China  and, on Tuesday,
by Assad. It calls for a cease-fire on both sides, withdrawal of
heavy weapons by the government and access for news reporters,
among other terms.  Success remains a long shot, given Assad’s appalling record
and the gulf of mistrust that separates him from his opponents.
The opposition members in Istanbul on Tuesday were deeply
skeptical and disgusted by Assad’s tour of a sanitized Baba Amr,
the suburb of Homs that Syria’s military cleared after a
sustained shelling that caused as many as 100 civilian
casualties a day.  The U.S. and its allies should do everything they can to
support the Annan plan. But they should also prepare for the
possibility of failure. President  Barack Obama  should quietly
order up the detailed, exhaustive preparations for deployments
that Panetta and Dempsey said would be the next step in making
intervention an option. Those preparations could help focus
Assad’s mind, and those of his supporters in Moscow, on the
consequences of diplomatic failure.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on China’s  clean-coal
technology , Ireland’s  economic woes  and Syria’s  muddled
opposition . William Pesek on  Japan’s workplace discrimination .
 Margaret Carlson  on  Trayvon Martin and Al Sharpton . Meghan
O’Sullivan on  Iraq’s economic salvation . Clive Crook on the
writings of a  potential World Bank president.   Peter Orszag  and
 Peter Diamond  on  Mitt Romney’s Social Security plan . And  Simon
Johnson  and  James Kwak  on how the U.S. became  banker to the
world .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 