-- Syria Must Back UN Plan Acceptance With Action, Clinton Says
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-03-27T19:43:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/syria-must-back-un-peace-plan-acceptance-with-action-correct-.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said she was skeptical about news that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has agreed to a six-point peace plan proposed by United
Nations envoy  Kofi Annan .  “Given Assad’s history of over promising and under
delivering that commitment must now be matched by immediate
actions,” Clinton said at a State Department press conference.
“We will judge Assad’s sincerity and seriousness by what he
does, not by what he says.”  The peace plan includes demands for a UN-supervised cease-
fire, secure access for humanitarian missions and a Syrian-led
transition to democracy.  Clinton said that the U.S. and allies would be “working
urgently” to lay out the concrete steps they expect to see by
April 1, when the so-called “ Syria  Contact Group” will meet in
Istanbul to discuss the ongoing violence.  The Syrian opposition would be expected to take steps as
well, Clinton said. Annan has pledged to work with the various
groups opposed to Assad “so that the bloodshed ends,” Clinton
said.  “I’m hoping that by the time I get to Istanbul on Sunday,
we will be in a position to acknowledge steps that the Assad
regime and the opposition have both taken,” Clinton said.  The top U.S. diplomat called on the Syrian president to
release political prisoners, permit peaceful political activity,
allow the news media unfettered access to the country and begin
a “legitimate political process that leads to a democratic
transition.”  First, though, Clinton said that if Assad really is “ready
to bring this dark chapter in Syria’s history to a close, he can
prove it by immediately ordering regime forces to stop firing
and begin withdrawing from populated areas.”  Annan will brief the  Security Council  on the peace plan and
Assad’s agreement to it on April 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  