-- U.K. Gilts Advance Amid Bank of England Bond-Buying Speculation
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-03-27T16:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/u-k-pound-slips-before-report-that-may-show-retail-sales-fell.html
U.K. gilts rose as a  Bank of
England  policy maker said inflationary pressures remain low,
buoying the case for extending asset purchases to nurse the
economic recovery.  The advance pared 10-year bonds’ first quarterly drop in a
year. Gilts stayed higher even as a report showed  retail sales 
improved last month. Spare industrial capacity will weigh on the
country’s “very muted” domestically generated inflation
pressures, Bank of England policy maker  David Miles  said in a
speech yesterday in Arlington, Virginia. Governor  Mervyn King 
said he was open-minded on whether more stimulus was needed. The
pound climbed above $1.60 for the first time since November.  “The market believes there’s still willingness to do a bit
more even though they own a lot of gilts already,” Lyn Graham- Taylor, a fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in
 London , said of the central bank’s asset-purchase program.  Yields on the 10-year  gilt  fell seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 2.26 percent at 5:08 p.m. London time,
leaving it 23 basis points higher this year. The 4 percent bond
due March 2022 gained 0.685, or 6.85 pounds per 1,000-pound
($1,596) face amount, to 115.395.  A gauge of annual sales growth was at zero this month, from
minus 2 in February, the London-based  Confederation of British
Industry  said today. The median prediction of 11 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was minus 5.  King Comments  Gilts stayed higher as King said economic output may fall
in the second quarter due to an extra public holiday.  King told lawmakers in Parliament’s upper house today in
London that he didn’t know if more easing is going to be needed.  “We do make a fresh judgment each month,” he said. “We
are prepared to change our mind each and every month. If we were
to do more it would be in conventional gilt purchases.”  Investors remained concerned that the euro-area outlook may
dent market sentiment, the U.K. central bank’s chief economist
 Spencer Dale  said in a Quarterly Bulletin published today.  Demand for investments “perceived to be more liquid or
carrying less credit risk” helped to keep gilt yields low, the
Bank of England said in the report. There was “little market
reaction” to the decision by Moody’s Investors Service to
change the outlook on the U.K.’s Aaa credit rating to negative
from stable, the bank said.  Pound Gain  U.K. debt securities returned 14 percent in the past 12
months, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. They rose
as investors sought a refuge from the euro-region’s debt crisis
and as the U.K. economy contracted in the fourth quarter,
fueling bets the central bank may add to its bond purchases.  The pound reached its strongest level in more than four
months versus the dollar amid speculation the government may be
selling its stake in  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc . Sterling
was little changed at $1.5971, after being as high as $1.6001.
It was 0.2 percent stronger at 83.51 pence against the euro.  “M&A talk is a factor,”  Marc Chandler , global head of
currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in  New York ,
wrote in a client note, referring partly to speculation British
officials held talks with potential investors including Middle
Eastern sovereign-wealth funds about a sale of some of its 82
percent stake in RBS.  The government made presentations in countries including
 Abu Dhabi , two people with knowledge of the situation said
yesterday. The discussions are at an early stage and no deal is
imminent, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the talks are private.  Sterling has gained 1.1 percent in the past six months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar weakened 0.8 percent
and the euro slid 2.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  