-- U.K. Stocks Drop, Led by Energy Companies; BG Group Falls
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-03-27T16:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/u-k-stocks-advance-as-bank-shares-rally-on-rbs-talks.html
U.K. stocks  dropped, erasing an
earlier advance for the benchmark FTSE 100 Index, as energy
companies declined after a gas leak at Total SA’s North Sea oil-
and-gas rig continued for a third day.  BG Group Plc (BG/)  lost 2.9 percent after the gas leak at the
French company’s Elgin platform led to the evacuation of other
rigs in the area. Resolution Plc and Wolseley Plc both lost more
than 2 percent after reporting earnings.  Compass Group Plc (CPG)  fell
as the caterer’s outlook disappointed investors.  The FTSE 100 dropped 33.15, or 0.6 percent, to 5,869.55 at
the close in London after earlier rising as much 0.7 percent.
The broader FTSE All-Share Index slid 0.5 percent, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index rose 0.1 percent.  “The 180-degree turn by the market proves that there is
still a lack of conviction from investors to push the market to
new highs for the year,” said  Angus Campbell , head of market
analysis at Capital Spreads in London. “Energy stocks were one
of the main drags on the indices.”  The FTSE 100 rallied yesterday after German business
confidence unexpectedly rose and U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said continued accommodative monetary policy is
still needed. The gauge has gained  5.3 percent  so far this year,
boosted by the  European Central Bank ’s 1 trillion euro ($1.3
trillion) loans to the region’s lenders.  North Sea Rigs  BG Group dropped 2.9 percent to 1,475 pence. Total’s Elgin
platform leaked gas for a third day in the U.K.’s  North Sea ,
prompting neighboring rigs to be evacuated to guard against the
risk of an explosion.  The Elgin-Franklin fields produced a daily average of
61,386 barrels of condensate in November, according to the most
recent government data. Shareholders in both fields include BG
Group, Eni SpA, EON AG, Exxon Mobil Corp., Chevron Corp, Dyas AS
and Summit Petroleum Ltd.  Royal Dutch Shell Group Plc fell 1.2 percent to 2,223 pence
as crude declined on reports that the U.S. is considering a
release from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. BP Plc dropped 2.2
percent to 471.35 pence and Cairn Energy Plc slid 2.2 percent to
333.3 pence.  Resolution dropped 2.4 percent to 268.2 pence even after
the insurance investment firm more than doubled full-year
operating profit to 681 million pounds, topping the median
analyst estimate of 559 million pounds.  Analysts at Berenberg said full-year results were “very
disappointing” as headline numbers beat consensus only with the
help of one-time items.  Resolution also said it may split its Friends Life division
into two to allow the company to make an exit from its U.K. life
insurance project without finding a buyer.  Wolseley, Compass Group  Wolseley Plc (WOS)  slid 3.3 percent to 2,435 pence after the
world’s largest supplier of heating and plumbing products
reported first-half net income and sales that were in line with
analyst estimates. The company said growth trends were slightly
lower since the end of the first half.  Compass Group declined 2.5 percent to 651 pence after the
world’s largest catering company said the current “economic
uncertainty” may continue to put pressure on like-for-like
volumes in some regions in the second half.  The company reiterated its full-year expectations but said
it expects no improvement in profit margins during the first
half of this year.  RBS Stake Sale  Elsewhere,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  gained 3.3
percent to 28.67 pence after the government was said to have
held talks with investors, including Middle Eastern sovereign
wealth funds, about a potential stake sale.  Two people with knowledge of the talks said the U.K. had
made presentations to investors in countries including  Abu
Dhabi . Talks are at an early stage and no deal is imminent, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the
discussions are private.  “Similar rumors have circulated before regarding
sovereign-wealth investment in RBS,” said  Mike Trippitt , a
London-based analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. “On balance, we
see the sale of a smaller stake to sovereign-wealth funds at
below the average in-price as a positive for the shares. An
investment should provide a floor for the share price.”  RBS trades for little more than half the price the
government paid when it bailed out the lender in 2008. The  BBC 
reported yesterday that the Treasury is in talks to sell as much
as a third of its 82 percent stake in RBS to Abu Dhabi, without
saying where it got the information.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  climbed 2.1 percent to 944.5 pence after the
copper producer reported 2011 earnings per share that beat
analysts’ estimates and sales that were in line with forecasts.  Afren Target  Afren Plc (AFR)  rallied 3.4 percent to 135.5 pence after the oil
producer said it plans to reach production of 100,000 barrels of
oil equivalent a day by 2017. The target is “easily
achievable,” said Chief Executive Officer Osman Shahenshah.  Qinetiq Group Plc (QQ/)  rose 2.5 percent to 149.6 pence after
reaching a pact with trustees of its  pension plan  to reduce its
funding deficit and improve the security.  Babcock International Group Plc (BAB)  jumped 3.2 percent to 800
pence after the defense and engineering contractor said it was
confident in meeting full-year forecasts, saying key markets
remain strong.  PZ Cussons Plc dropped 9.8 percent to 301.3 pence after the
company said that continuing tension in  Nigeria  will result in
“the group’s overall performance being some way below
expectations.” Numis Securities Ltd. downgraded the shares to
reduce, the equivalent of a sell rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  