-- U.K. High-Speed Rail Link Wasn’t Value for Money, Watchdog Says
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2012-03-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/u-k-high-speed-rail-link-wasn-t-value-for-money-watchdog-says.html
Britain’s first high-speed rail
link, running from London to the Channel Tunnel, has failed to
provide value for money for taxpayers, the government’s spending
watchdog said.  Net costs to the taxpayer from the line, known as HS1, will
total 10.2 billion pounds ($16.3 billion) by 2070, the  National
Audit Office  in London said in a report published today. Savings
on journey times will produce a benefit of 7 billion pounds over
the same period, the NAO said.  “On these measures we would conclude that the project is
not value for money,” the watchdog said. While other benefits
haven’t been quantified and some can’t be measured, the
Department for Transport “would need to demonstrate that these
benefits are going to be at least 8.3 billion pounds, giving a
higher contribution than originally expected, to achieve the
benefit-cost ratio of 1.5 to 1 estimated in 1998.”  The first high-speed line was completed in 2007 at a cost
of 6.2 billion pounds. It carries trains including the Eurostar
Group Ltd. link from  London  to Paris and Brussels and commuter
trains between London and Kent, with 18.1 million passengers
last year. The concession to run the line was sold to a group
led by Canadian investment funds for 2 billion pounds in 2010.  The government approved a plan in January to build a high-
speed rail link from London to Birmingham, opening in 2026, and
on to Manchester and Leeds in 2032-33. It’s seeking private-
sector and European Union funding to help meet the 32.7 billion-
pound cost. Ministers say the line will boost the capacity of
the rail network, slash journey times and ease overcrowding on
existing routes, as well as allow northern cities better access
to the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  