-- U.S. Seeks to Dismiss Convictions of Bribe Sting Defendants
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-27T20:44:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/u-s-seeks-to-dismiss-convictions-of-bribe-sting-defendants-1-.html
U.S. prosecutors asked a judge to
dismiss the convictions of three men who pleaded guilty in a
foreign-bribery sting, a month after abandoning the case against
19 others charged in the same alleged conspiracy.  The  Justice Department , in a filing today in U.S. District
Court in  Washington , said an earlier ruling by U.S. District
Judge Richard Leon throwing out conspiracy charges against other
defendants in the case should “apply equally” to Jonathan
Spiller, Haim Geri and Daniel Alvirez.  “The government has concluded that further prosecution of
the Gabon-related charges against defendants Spiller, Geri and
Alvirez is unlikely to be successful,” prosecutors said in the
filing.  Leon suggested at a hearing today that he would grant the
request. He ordered the parties to submit additional filings on
how to dispose of the guilty pleas.  “I’m pleased to see the government made the right
decision,” he said.  At the request of prosecutors, Leon on Feb. 21 dismissed
the indictment accusing 19 security-industry officials of
planning to make payments to a federal agent posing as a
representative of the West African nation of Gabon to secure a
stake in a fake $15 million deal for weapons and security gear.  Guilty Pleas  Spiller, Geri and Alvirez, who were arrested with the
others, pleaded guilty to the conspiracy and cooperated in the
case. They had not been sentenced.  Alvirez also pleaded guilty to a conspiracy charge in
another case. Prosecutors asked for that charge to be dismissed
as well.  It was the first time the government used a sting operation
involving undercover techniques to charge violations of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The case was dropped after the
government failed to win convictions of 10 people who went to
trial.  “This outcome was the right thing to do by everyone’s
standpoint,” Alvirez’s lawyer, Asa Hutchinson, said in an
interview.  Geri’s lawyer, Eric Bruce of Kobre & Kim LLP, said in a
statement that “it would have been a grave injustice” for his
client “to be branded a felon as a result of this failed sting
operation.”  ‘Painful Episode’  Spiller, in a statement, said he was glad “this painful
episode in my life is now over.”  The case, the biggest U.S. prosecution of individuals
accused of foreign bribery, stemmed from a three-year
investigation involving an informant who had pleaded guilty in
an earlier bribery case. Investigators recorded phone calls and
videotaped meetings with  Federal Bureau of Investigation  agents
posing as representatives of Gabon, sub-Saharan  Africa ’s fifth-
biggest oil producer.  The government said the defendants agreed to pay a
$3 million commission for the business, half of which they were
told would be paid to the country’s defense minister.  The government’s case was put together through Richard Bistrong, a former executive from Armor Holdings Inc. He pleaded
guilty in 2010 to bribing officials of the  United Nations  and
the Netherlands to obtain contracts for body armor and pepper
spray, according to court papers. He has yet to be sentenced.  Recorded Meetings  Bistrong identified possible targets for the government,
according to court papers. Working with the FBI, he recorded
phone and in-person meetings with the defendants. He also
introduced them to an FBI agent posing as a representative for
Gabon’s defense minister.  Bistrong, in testimony given during the second trial,
admitted to having a cocaine addiction and to filing false tax
returns and other crimes.  Defense lawyers said the lead FBI agent shared cigars,
gifts and meals with Bistrong, compromising the investigation.
The relationship was documented in  text messages  and e-mails
shown to the jury.  During today’s hearing, Leon said the government had until
April 26 to decide whether to make additional cases using
Bistrong. Bistrong, who faces as long as five years in prison,
should be sentenced this summer, he said.  “He’s had a lot of time out there making lots of money
with the government’s permission,” Leon said. “The time has
come, I think. He has to pay his debt to society for what he’s
done.”  The case is U.S. v. Goncalves, 09-cr-00335, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  