-- U.S. Tax-Evasion Probes Said to Slow as Prosecutors Transfer
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-03-27T19:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/u-s-tax-evasion-probes-said-to-slow-as-prosecutors-transfer.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  has
lost almost 30 percent of its tax prosecutors in the past month,
slowing a U.S. crackdown on offshore banks that enabled tax
evasion, according to four people familiar with the matter.  Twenty-five of the 95 prosecutors in the tax division left
headquarters in Washington for six-month “details” with U.S.
attorneys around the country, and another three took permanent
assignments, according to the four people, who declined to be
identified because they aren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Many of the lawyers handled cases involving foreign banks
or financial advisers suspected of helping U.S. clients cheat on
taxes, the people said. The transfers came amid criminal probes
of at least 11 Swiss financial institutions, including  Credit
Suisse (CSGN)  Group AG, with the tax division leading or assisting each
prosecution.  “To move one-third of these people from that effort will
significantly compromise such enforcement at the very time it is
needed to deal with the huge amounts of offshore cases coming to
the tax division,” said Nathan Hochman, a former assistant
attorney general who oversaw the tax division under President
 George W. Bush .  The prosecutors “have significant experience, training and
knowledge when it comes to the enforcement of tax laws
pertaining to overseas accounts,” said Hochman, now a partner
at Bingham McCutchen LLP in  Santa Monica ,  California .  Identity Theft  The division also investigates identify theft, illegal tax
shelters and other crimes, while approving every tax case filed
by the 94 presidentially appointed U.S. attorneys serving the
Justice Department around the country.  “Offshore non-compliance by U.S. taxpayers remains a top
priority for the Justice Department’s Tax Division,” said
 Charles Miller , a Justice Department spokesman. “We will
continue to pursue those cases vigorously.”  The offshore tax crackdown has expanded since 2007, when
the Justice Department and the  Internal Revenue Service  began
focusing on Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN) , the largest Swiss bank. UBS
avoided U.S. prosecution in 2009 by admitting it aided tax
evasion, paying $780 million and handing over data on 250
accounts. It later disclosed information on about 4,450 more
accounts.  Prosecutors have since filed criminal charges against at
least 21 foreign bankers, advisers and attorneys and at least 40
U.S. taxpayers. The clients’ banks included UBS; Zurich-based
Credit Suisse, the second-largest Swiss bank; and London-based
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest bank, prosecutors said.  Credit Suisse Probe  On July 15, Credit Suisse said it was a target of a
criminal probe over former cross-border private-banking services
for U.S. customers. Six days later, seven current and former
Credit Suisse bankers were indicted on a charge of conspiring to
help U.S. clients evade taxes through secret accounts. That case
was led by prosecutors in the Eastern District of Virginia.  Prosecutors in the Manhattan-based Southern District of  New
York  secured an indictment on Feb. 2 against Wegelin & Co., the
270-year-old private bank that was the first Swiss lender
criminally charged.  The IRS said 30,000 U.S. taxpayers with offshore accounts
have avoided prosecution since 2009 by entering a limited
amnesty program, paying back taxes and saying who helped them
hide their accounts from authorities. Hundreds of taxpayers in
the program gave prosecutors information that has helped build
criminal cases against bankers and advisers.  Moving prosecutors “slows the whole process down
considerably,” said Robert Katzberg, a white-collar defense
attorney at Kaplan & Katzberg in New York.  ‘No Substitute’  “You have fewer personnel going through all of the
potential charges and the enormous amount of evidence that’s
been obtained over the last three years,” Katzberg said.
“While the Southern District of New York has been very, very
active in a lot of these things, that’s no substitute for the
tax division in  Washington  quarterbacking these cases.”  Tax attorney Scott D. Michel said reducing the Tax Division
workforce is poor policy because tax enforcement helps bring
money back to the  U.S. Treasury .  “The Tax Division is one of the few parts of the U.S.
government that probably makes a profit,” said Michel of Caplin
& Drysdale in Washington.  The prosecutors left under a program offered on Jan. 13 by
the Justice Department, which said it would “detail” as many
as 100 attorneys and support staff to the U.S. attorney’s
offices through Sept. 30, or the end of the fiscal year.  Hiring Freeze  The move was intended to help the offices “address their
short-term workforce needs resulting from the department’s
ongoing hiring freeze,” according to a memo by H. Marshall Jarrett of the Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys. The U.S.
attorneys weren’t obligated to hire prosecutors permanently,
according to the memo.  Another memo listed 155 attorney positions available around
the country through the program. Lawyers could help on cases
involving narcotics, immigration, organized crime, child
trafficking and major frauds, according to the memo.  The subject arose at a March 20 hearing before the Senate
Finance Committee’s economic growth and fiscal responsibility
subcommittee, which examined identity theft and  tax fraud .  Senator  Richard Burr , a North Carolina Republican, asked
about the impact of the moves on the department’s effort to work
with the IRS to combat identity fraud.  ‘Redoubled Our Efforts’  “We’ve redoubled our efforts to offer resources from the
Tax Division to U.S. attorneys in terms of prosecutors and
information about how these schemes are working in other
jurisdictions,” testified Ronald A. Cimino, deputy assistant
attorney general for criminal matters in the tax division.  “Do you think it’s wise to divert a significant portion of
the criminal component of the tax division to deal with a non-
tax issue?” Burr asked.  “What we in the tax division did, senator, is to place for
six months our prosecutors and our civil litigators -- there are
actually both -- of the numbers that you referred to across the
country,” Cimino said. “In part, when this was done, some of
them are working more on their own cases in the jurisdiction.”  President  Barack Obama ’s second nominee to succeed Hochman
as tax division chief, Kathryn Keneally, a New York-based
partner at Fulbright & Jaworski LLP, has yet to win Senate
confirmation. An earlier choice, Mary L. Smith, was blocked by
lawmakers who said she lacked experience in tax law. Keneally,
who was approved by the Judiciary Committee in December, hasn’t
received a vote from the full Senate.  The job is an important one, Hochman said.  ‘Leadership Role’  “It serves a leadership role within the organization, a
political role in lobbying for additional resources for the
division and a symbolic role in promoting the tax division’s
mission to the general public,” Hochman said. “Not having
someone in that role for that period of time undermines the tax
division’s mission.”  Jeffrey Neiman, a former Justice Department prosecutor who
worked on the UBS case, likened the transfers to getting rid of
half a baseball team on the eve of the championship.  “Between the government’s recent efforts to crack down on
offshore  tax evasion  and the identity-theft epidemic plaguing
the IRS, criminal tax enforcement is at a critical point,” said
Neiman, who now practices in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 