-- Consumer Confidence in U.S. Holds Close to One-Year High
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-03-27T20:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/u-s-consumer-confidence-in-march-holds-close-to-one-year-high.html
An improving job market helped keep
 consumer confidence  close to the highest level in a year in
March as a growing number of Americans said they planned to buy
cars, homes and appliances.  The Conference Board’s  index  was 70.2 this month, in line
with the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, down from a
revised 71.6 reading in February, according to the New York-
based research group. Another report today showed  home prices 
dropped at a slower pace in January, signaling stabilization in
housing that may begin to brighten moods.  The best six months of job growth since 2006, unemployment
at a three-year low, and stock-market gains are giving Americans
the means to withstand higher costs at the  gas pump . A pickup in
buying plans this month shows a sustained optimism may keep
driving  consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent
of the economy.  “It’s a tug of war -- the labor market versus gasoline
prices,” said  Carl Riccadonna , senior U.S. economist at
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York. “We are close to
that key psychological level of $4 a gallon. Assuming gas prices
don’t shoot to the moon, consumers will keep spending.”  Stocks fell after the figures failed to encourage investors
after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced to an almost
four-year high. The  S&P 500 (SPX)  fell 0.3 percent to 1,412.52 at the
close in New York.  Economists’ Estimates  The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a decrease in the confidence index to 70. Estimates
ranged from 66 to 77 after a previously reported 70.8 reading in
February. The measure averaged 53.7 during the recession that
ended in June 2009.  The Conference Board’s gauge of  present conditions 
increased to 51 in March, the highest since September 2008, from
46.4 a month earlier. The share of respondents who said this
month that jobs were  plentiful  climbed to 9.4 percent, also the
highest since September 2008, from 7 percent.  Sarah Gudernatch, 28, was able to find work before she
graduated with her master’s degree from  Columbia University  in
December. She started with San Francisco-based Sustainable
Brands in January.  “I went on a total shopping spree the other weekend and
spent $500 on clothes,” Gudernatch said. “I hadn’t updated my
wardrobe all throughout grad school since I always wore t-shirts
and jeans to class.”  Consumer confidence in France unexpectedly jumped by the
most in almost five years in March as the euro region’s second-
largest economy prepares for a possible change of government.  French Election  A measure of sentiment rose to 87 from 82 in February,
national statistics office Insee said in Paris today. Economists
forecast an unchanged reading, according to the median of 16
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The gain was the biggest
since May 2007, when  Nicolas Sarkozy  won  France ’s presidency
promising to bolster household purchasing power.  Elsewhere in  Europe , market research company GfK SE
predicted that its gauge of German consumer confidence will slip
from a 12-month high in April. U.K. retail sales were unchanged
in March from a year earlier, and stores expect conditions to
worsen next month amid rising unemployment and higher energy
prices, the  Confederation of British Industry  said.  In the U.S., employment growth is starting to shore up
housing demand, which may allow the industry that precipitated
the recession to contribute to growth this year. The S&P/Case-
Shiller index of  property values  fell 3.8 percent in January
from a year earlier following a 4.1 percent decrease the month
before, the group said today in  New York .  Payrolls Increase  Payrolls increased by 227,000 in February, the third month
of gains in excess of 200,000, Labor Department data show. The
 unemployment rate  held at a three-year low of 8.3 percent
following five consecutive declines. Worker pay jumped in the
last six months of 2011 by the most in almost five years,
according to data from the Commerce Department.  Stock-market gains are adding to the wealth of Americans.
The  S&P 500  climbed yesterday to the highest level since May
2008 and is up almost 13 percent this year through yesterday.  At the same time, rising fuel costs leave consumers less to
spend on other goods. A gallon of regular unleaded gasoline has
increased to a 10-month high of $3.90 as of yesterday, according
to AAA, the nation’s largest automobile association.  “You’ve got a mixed picture right now because the jobs
news is actually positive but you do have the spikes in gasoline
and food,” said Clarence Otis, chief executive officer of
 Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI) , in a March 23 conference call.  Restaurant Meals  The Orlando, Florida, operator reported a 2.3 percent
increase in traffic at its Red Lobster,  Olive Garden  and
LongHorn Steakhouse brands during the third quarter and expects
a 2.5 percent to 3 percent increase in same-store sales this
year.  Buying plans improved in March, today’s Conference Board
figures showed. More Americans said they expected to purchase
cars, homes and major appliances in the next six months.  The Conference Board’s gauge of  expectations  for the next
six months fell to 83 from 88.4.  The proportion expecting their incomes to rise over the
next six months climbed to a three-month high of 15.8 percent
from 15.5 percent. The number projecting better business
conditions in the next six months increased to 19.2 percent in
March, the highest since April 2011.  Among other measures of confidence, the Bloomberg monthly
expectations gauge climbed to a one-year high in March. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of
consumer sentiment fell this month to the lowest level this
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  