-- U.S. House Panel Approves Bill Limiting Swaps-Regulation Reach
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-03-27T22:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/u-s-house-panel-approves-bill-limiting-swaps-regulation-reach.html
The U.S.  House Financial Services
Committee  approved legislation to limit the international reach
of Dodd-Frank Act derivatives rules that banks said would hurt
their ability to compete with foreign-based rivals.  The bipartisan measure, approved by a 41-18 vote at a
committee meeting in  Washington  today, would restrict the 2010
law’s clearing, trading and collateral regulations from applying
to trades between foreign-based affiliates of U.S. banks and
their overseas clients.  “This bill seeks to do something very, very narrow,” said
Representative Jim Himes, the Connecticut Democrat who is co-
sponsor of the  bill . “The notion that this is creating an
unregulated environment for anybody is flat-out wrong.”  Lawmakers in the Republican-led House acted after  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  argued
that applying the rules to their overseas branches would hurt
their ability to compete with rivals based outside the U.S. The
legislation would need passage by the full House and Senate
before it could be sent to President  Barack Obama  for final
approval. Neither chamber has scheduled a vote.  Dodd-Frank’s derivatives provisions were enacted as
Congress sought to limit risk in the $708 trillion global swaps
market after unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit
crisis. The  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  and  Securities
and Exchange Commission , the agencies assigned to write the
rules, have yet to release proposals for defining their reach.  ‘Eviscerate Our Ability’  Applying Dodd-Frank margin requirements to overseas swaps
would “eviscerate our ability to serve clients overseas and
cede the global market to foreign competitors,” JPMorgan
Associate General Counsel Don Thompson said at a  Financial
Services Committee  hearing Feb. 8. The  International Swaps and
Derivatives Association Inc.  and  Institute for International
Bankers  also backed the House measure.  An amendment to give the SEC and CFTC authority to impose
margin and other requirements on trades with non-U.S. clients if
they present systemic risks was rejected by the committee.
Representative  Barney Frank , the Massachusetts Democrat who co-
wrote the 2010 law that bears his name, sponsored the amendment
to provide a safety net even if the norm would be that it wasn’t
necessary.  It would be a “very very grave error” to not have such a
backstop, he said before the vote. “The bill as it is presented
to us leaves us no residual authority to step in,” Frank said.  Indemnification  The House panel approved by voice vote legislation that
would repeal Dodd-Frank’s requirement that foreign governments
indemnify swap data repositories and U.S. regulators for
litigation costs. The SEC has urged Congress to repeal the
provision, saying it would inhibit access to market data.  Foreign regulators lack authority to provide the
indemnification, which could lead to fragmentation of market
information, Ethiopis Tafara, the SEC’s head of international
affairs, told lawmakers on March 21.  “This bill is an important first step in helping to
develop a global trade repository system to support systemic
risk management and oversight,” Dan Cohen, managing director
and head of government relations for the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp., said in an e-mail after the vote. DTCC provides
clearing, settlement and information services for financial
instruments including over-the-counter derivatives, according to
its website.  The panel also approved the Emergency Fiscal Solvency Act,
which would require the  Federal Housing Administration  to set a
minimum annual mortgage premium. It would ban lenders with high-
default rates from participating in FHA programs, and would
force fraudulent lenders to repay FHA losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  