-- TUI Jumps After Gains in Asian Shipping Shares: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-03-27T15:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/tui-jumps-after-gains-in-asian-shipping-shares-frankfurt-mover.html
TUI AG (TUI1) , the travel company which
owns a stake in container line Hapag-Lloyd AG, jumped the most
in almost two months in  Frankfurt  trading, boosted by gains in
shares of Asian shipping companies such as  China  Cosco Holdings
Co. and  China Shipping Development (1138)  Co.  TUI  jumped  as much as 7.1 percent, the steepest intraday
advance since Feb. 1, and traded up 6.6 percent to 5.77 euros as
of 4:53 p.m. in Frankfurt. China Cosco rose 8.3 percent and
China Shipping Development climbed 7.9 percent in  Hong Kong .  Shipping stocks are cheap amid expected increases in
container rates, Timothy Ross and Davin Wu, analysts at Credit
Suisse Group AG, wrote in a report today. Liner operators are
likely to perform best in the near term, with the next rise in
rates scheduled for April 1, they said.  The biggest foreign trading partner of Hapag-Lloyd’s home
port of Hamburg is China, which accounted for 3 million standard
containers, or 35 percent of total container volume, last year.
 Singapore  and South Korea are the port’s third and fifth-most
important foreign trading partners, respectively. Hapag-Lloyd
accounted for about half of all containers in Hamburg last year.  Hapag-Lloyd said on March 21 that it had a net loss last
year after a price war in the industry prevented it from passing
on soaring fuel costs to customers.  TUI, owner of  Europe ’s largest travel company, is selling a
17.4 percent stake in Hapag-Lloyd to investor group Albert
Ballin for 475 million euros ($633 million) to focus on tourism.
TUI may divest its remaining 22 percent holding in an initial
public offering or sell the stake to third-party investors, it
said Feb. 14. The company postponed a planned IPO for Hapag-
Lloyd last year because of turmoil in global equity markets.  The  Albert Ballin  investment group, which comprises the
city-state of Hamburg’s government, Klaus-Michael Kuehne, Signal
Iduna, Hanse-Merkur, M.M. Warburg & Co. and HSH Nordbank AG, is
Hapag-Lloyd’s majority shareholder and will own about 78 percent
of the shipping company after the deal has been completed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  