-- Hundreds Protest Health-Care Law Amid Skepticism at Court
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-03-27T20:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/hundreds-protest-health-care-law-amid-skepticism-at-court.html
Hundreds of protesters carrying
“Don’t Tread on Me” flags and shouting “Freedom” rallied
near the U.S.  Supreme Court  against the Obama administration’s
health-care overhaul, while inside a majority of the justices
challenged the constitutionality of the law’s keystone
provision.  Bearing signs that read “One Big Lie” and “We already
have too many bureaucrats,” the demonstrators today chanted,
“Hey, hey, ho, ho, Obamacare has got to go.” They gathered
outside the U.S. Capitol, facing the court building, at an event
sponsored by Americans for Prosperity, a Tea Party-affiliated
group.  “This isn’t about health care; it’s about freedom,” said
Senator  Ron Johnson , a Wisconsin Republican. “Far too many
Americans are trading their freedom for a false sense of
economic security.’  Five Republican-appointed justices hinted they might strike
down the law backed by President  Barack Obama . They directed
pointed questions at the administration’s chief courtroom
lawyer, who defended the central provision of the law that
requires Americans to obtain insurance or face fines.  That mandate is what prompted Thomas Bird to drive eight
hours from Bradford,  New Hampshire , to take part in the
demonstration.  On his red plaid shirt, Bird wore a button that said “non-
compliant,” underscoring his pledge not to get health insurance
if the court upholds the law.  Buying a Chevy  “If they tell us we have to buy insurance, what are they
going to tell us to buy next? Chevy Volts?” Bird said.  Bird, 52, held a flag saying “Liberty or Death” and a
placard that quoted French-Algerian writer Albert Camus: “The
welfare of humanity has always been the alibi of tyrants.”  An employee of a gun shop, Bird said he doesn’t have health
insurance. He opened his mouth, pointed to a cracked tooth and
said he couldn’t afford to go to the dentist to get it fixed.  Earlier, chanting and singing supporters of the health law
massed at the steps of the Supreme Court. Rose Jaffe, 23, said
she was there to protect women’s health-care services and rally
against Republican efforts to roll back abortion rights.  “I feel the government affecting the choices I have with my
body is very scary,” Jaffe said.  Camped Out  Rachel Thomas, 25, is getting her master’s in public health
from Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia and drove down
last night to camp out for a chance at being in the room at the
court.  “This dictates what I can do” with the degree “and I
wanted to be a part of it,” said Thomas, who supports the law.  By afternoon, the opponents organized by Americans for
Prosperity outnumbered supporters of health-care overhaul.
Republican Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota  and
Senator  Rand Paul  of  Kentucky  spoke against the law at their
rally, urging them to call their members of Congress.  The court probably will rule in late June, just months
before the November election. A decision against the measure,
while gratifying to the protesters, could energize Democrats
concerned over the direction of the high court. There are four
Democratic- appointed justices and five named by Republican
presidents.  Expanding Medicaid  Tomorrow, the final day of three days of arguments on the
law, the justices will consider what should happen to the rest
of the statute if they invalidate the insurance requirement. The
court also will hear arguments on a provision that expands the
Medicaid program. States say it unconstitutionally coerces them
into spending more on health care for the poor.  The law’s opponents say they believe the government lacks
the authority or expertise to take a primary role in health
care.  Before today’s rally, Janis Haddon of Atlanta said the
government will make the health-care system worse. “They can’t
even run the post office,” she said. “How can they run health
care?”  A retired school teacher, Haddon, 65, said she didn’t like
being forced into Medicare and off the insurance she received
through her husband’s company, a distributor of generators and
other electrical equipment.  The law doesn’t require those who are insured by their
employer to give it up.  Mickey Mouse Gloves  Haddon wore puffy  Mickey Mouse  white gloves that she got
when she visited Disney World in  Orlando ,  Florida , three weeks
ago. On each finger she had written, “No!”  A friend, Judy Burel, 63, of Duluth, Georgia, said she is
concerned the law would accelerate the rising costs of her
family’s cabinetmaking business, Chattahoochee Kitchen and Bath
Inc.  The law has given insurers the power to jack up costs for
small businesses, Burel said. Premiums recently have risen
$2,000 annually for each of the company’s 10 employees, she
said.  “To keep the costs down, we had to increase our
deductible” that an employee pays, Burel said. “It’s just
tough out there.”  After a career in social work in  Dallas , Joyce Bennett
retired with health problems, including bad kidneys, high  blood
pressure  and hypoglycemia. Now living in Baltimore, Bennett, 58,
came to the rally because she said her Medicare coverage will be
weakened by the legislation.  One of her chief concerns is that health care will be
rationed, said Bennett, who may need a new kidney in the next
few years.  “I’m going to be put on the back burner for a kidney”
while younger patients get preference for the organ, Bennett
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  