-- United Technologies’ Goodrich Bid Faces In-Depth EU Probe
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-03-27T09:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/united-technologies-faces-in-depth-eu-probe-over-goodrich-bid.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  faces an
in-depth probe by European Union regulators into its bid to buy
 Goodrich Corp. (GR)  for $16.5 billion amid concerns the deal may harm
competition for engine controls and AC power generators.  The European Commission extended its deadline to rule on
the deal until Aug. 9 to examine it in greater detail, according
to an e-mailed statement. The company said it remains confident
the purchase will close by mid-year.  “The aviation equipment industry is already concentrated
and is characterized by high barriers to entry,”  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust commissioner,  said  in the statement.
“We need to make sure that competition is preserved and
incentives to innovate remain. We must also prevent a rise in
input prices for aircraft and engine manufacturers as well as
other aviation equipment suppliers.”  United Technologies , which has aviation brands including
Sikorsky helicopters and Pratt & Whitney engines, agreed to buy
Goodrich in September, adding a maker of aircraft landing gear
and jet-turbine casings to take advantage of a record surge in
commercial plane orders. The Hartford, Connecticut-based company
is making its first big purchase since buying Sundstrand Corp.
in 1999 for $4 billion.  “The phase II in the EU is not surprising, it is part of
the normal regulator review process,” spokesman  John Moran  said
by e-mail. “We continue to work with the EU and other
regulatory authorities and continue to expect a mid-year
closing.”  Goodrich, based in Charlotte,  North Carolina , is the
world’s biggest manufacturer of landing gear, and its products
include nacelles, the casings that house jet engines, and de-
icing systems used on planes.  The commission said the deal also raises concerns over
“the removal of Goodrich as an independent supplier of fuel
nozzles and engine controls, as well as in the area of
aftermarket services.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 