-- Universal Music Said to Plan Sale of Three Music Catalogs
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-03-27T07:54:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/universal-music-said-to-plan-sale-of-three-music-catalogs.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music  Group
plans to sell three music-publishing catalogs ahead of its EMI
acquisition, said a person with knowledge of the situation.  Universal Music hired  Bank of America   Merrill Lynch (MER)  to sell
classical, Christian and German schlager catalogs, said the
person, who wasn’t authorized to talk publicly. A sale may raise
as much as $200 million, the person said.  Universal Music, the world’s biggest record company, said
in November it would sell non-strategic assets to help finance
its $1.9 billion acquisition of EMI’s recorded music business
from Citigroup Inc. Universal Music also plans to sell real
estate holdings in France and  Germany  that are leased to other
companies, the person said.  Representative for Universal and Vivendi couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  The music catalogs have drawn 12 bidders including KKR &
Co.-controlled BMG Rights Management, according to The Financial
Times, which reported the decision earlier today.  Vivendi today rose 0.3 percent to 14.06 euros in Paris
trading at 9:44 a.m. The stock has declined 17 percent this
year. Universal Music, based in  Santa Monica ,  California , is
seeking U.S. and European approvals to complete its EMI
acquisition.  Regulatory Probe  Citigroup Inc. (C)  agreed to sell EMI Group’s recorded-music
and publishing businesses in separate transactions for a
combined $4.1 billion. Universal will buy EMI’s record labels,
home to Katy Perry and Coldplay. A Sony Corp.-led group that
includes billionaire David Geffen said it will pay $2.2 billion
for the publishing unit.  Universal faces an in-depth probe by European Union
antitrust regulators amid concerns the EMI deal may harm
competition.  The European Commission extended its deadline to rule on
the deal until Aug. 8, to examine it in greater detail,
according to an e-mailed statement last week.  Warner Music Group, an unsuccessful bidder for EMI, will
lobby in the U.S. and  Europe  against the sale of the company to
Universal, retiring Chairman Edgar Bronfman Jr. has said.  The commission’s initial investigation into the merger
showed that the combined firm would be “almost twice the size
of the next largest player” on the EU market, the regulator
said March 23.  Impala, a group of independent record labels, has said EU
regulators should block both the Vivendi deal as well as Sony’s
bid for the music publishing unit because they would increase
prices and reduce competition in the music industry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net 
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net 
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  