-- Huntington Ingalls Carrier Costs Must Be Curbed, Mabus Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-03-27T20:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/huntington-ingalls-carrier-costs-must-be-curbed-mabus-says-1-.html
Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII) 
and the Navy must show “significant improvement” in containing
costs for the USS Gerald R. Ford aircraft carrier before its
2015 delivery date, according to U.S. Navy Secretary Ray Mabus.  “The Navy is conducting a line-by-line review” of all
remaining anticipated expenditures “to identify further
opportunity to reduce cost and to mitigate risk,” Mabus wrote
in a letter dated yesterday to Senator  John McCain , the senior
Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee.  Mabus outlined steps the service and its largest
shipbuilder are taking to stem costs that McCain says have
increased at least 18 percent to $12.3 billion. The estimate
includes the construction contract held by Huntington Ingalls,
new designs for a nuclear reactor to power the ship and an
electromagnetic aircraft-catapult system as well as an upgraded
radar and survivability features.  The carrier, which is almost 40 percent complete, is the
first ship in a $40 billion carrier program calling for an
almost complete redesign from the Nimitz class it is replacing.  McCain has begun to question the carrier program, and
Huntington Ingalls’s performance, much as he has  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, the Pentagon’s costliest
defense program.  McCain has said he wants the Senate committee to review the
Navy’s initial construction-funding request for the second
carrier in the class, the CVN-79. McCain also has requested a
U.S. Government Accountability Office review of plans to build
three Ford-class carriers.  “It appears that you do not now have a plan to prevent
future increases,” McCain said in a letter to Mabus on March
22.  ‘Unique Challenges’  Huntington Ingalls spokeswoman Beci Brenton said in an e-
mailed statement that “we continue to see improvements in our
performance on the carrier.  ‘‘Although this is a first-in-class ship with the unique
challenges, we anticipate we will increase efficiencies and
continue to retire risk in the three years that remain until
delivery,’’ Brenton said.  Huntington Ingalls of  Newport News ,  Virginia , is scheduled
to report tomorrow its first full-year earnings after its
spinoff from  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  Analysts on a conference
call for investors may question the company’s cost-control steps
and impact that overruns have had in reducing fees to the
company.  Mabus wrote McCain that an unspecified amount of fees have
already have been retracted ‘‘consistent with contractor
performance.’’  ‘Inadequate Accountability’  The single biggest contributor to cost increases ‘‘has been
contractor and government procurement material cost overruns,’’
Mabus said. ‘‘These issues trace to lead-ship complexity’’ and
the overlap of construction with the development of key systems,
he said.  There was ‘‘inadequate accountability,’’ primarily during
the advance procurement period in 2002 to 2008, he said.  The ‘‘systemic material procurement deficiencies’’ must be
corrected for the CVN-79, Mabus said.  Mabus indicated much of the vessel’s complexity and
associated cost increases stemmed from a 2002 Pentagon decision
to introduce on one carrier all of the technology that was to be
spread over three vessels -- from a new reactor and propulsion
system to the electromagnetic aircraft-launching system and
radar.  ‘‘Today we are confronting the cost impacts of these
decisions made more than a decade ago,’’ Mabus said.  Defense Secretary  Donald Rumsfeld  decided to accelerate the
technologies in 2002 as part of his agenda to ‘‘transform’’ the
military.  Huntington Ingalls fell 20 cents to $37.90 at the close in
New York trading and declined 3.4 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  