-- Turkish Central Bank Keeps Rates Same to Fight Inflation
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-03-27T15:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/turkish-central-bank-keeps-rates-same-to-fight-inflation.html
Turkey ’s central bank kept its
interest-rate corridor unchanged after a reduction in the top
rate last month caused the lira to plunge.  The Ankara-based lender left the benchmark one-week repo
rate, the floor of the corridor, at 5.75 percent, matching all
11 forecasts in a Bloomberg  survey . The maximum rate on
overnight loans was also unchanged at 11.5 percent, the bank
said on its website today, in line with predictions by five of
six economists.  The central bank’s surprise cut to the ceiling in February
led to a drop of as much as 4.5 percent in the lira. The
currency’s decline in the past year helped push inflation to a
three-year high. Governor Erdem Basci, who says the rates
corridor he adopted last year allows him to vary policy almost
daily in line with conditions, used that flexibility last week
to push borrowing costs higher and bolster the currency.  “Market developments did not allow a narrowing of the
corridor,” said  Inan Demir , chief economist at Finansbank AS in
Istanbul, in a report before the decision. “The lira
underperformed most emerging-market peers until Basci reversed
his stance.”  ‘Additional Tightening’  The central bank also reduced the amount of liras it lends
in regular repo actions, and increased the amount of lira
reserves that banks are allowed to hold in gold. Overall, the
measures “would raise the weighted average cost of funding,”
Istanbul-based lender  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK)  said in an e-
mailed note.  The central bank said today that it is “applying
additional tightening to prevent developments in short-term
financial elements from impacting expectations,” adding that
“additional monetary tightening may be repeated as needed.”  Basci said last week that the central bank will maintain a
policy of “controlled tightening,” and halted repo auctions at
the benchmark rate. The measure pushed funding costs for banks
to 9.25 percent from about 7.5 percent a month earlier,
according to Finansbank’s estimates.  The lira fell 0.2 percent to 1.7883 per dollar at 6:55 p.m.
in Istanbul, extending its one-week rebound to 2 percent. The
currency, the worst performer globally in 2011 with an 18
percent drop against the dollar, has gained 5.7 percent this
year.  Inflation, Growth  Yields on two-year benchmark  bonds  fell 6 basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 9.48 percent. They were about 9
percent when the central bank cut the rate corridor ceiling last
month.  Inflation (TUCPIY)  slowed to 10.4 percent in February from 10.6
percent in January, the highest since 2008. The central bank
says it expects a slowdown after this month.  Turkish ministers including premier  Recep Tayyip Erdogan 
have pressed for low rates to support the government’s growth
target of 4 percent for the $735 billion economy, which grew at
about twice that pace last year. The median forecast of ten
economists surveyed by Bloomberg is 2.6 percent.  Slower growth in output, credit and prices “support the
idea that the additional tightening should be temporary,” Sinan Goksen, head of research at Ekspres Invest brokerage in
Istanbul, said in a report today before the decision. “Further
global easing is still a possibility and may support lower
interest rate environment in Turkey in the period ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  