-- Vacation Trips May Shrink as Gasoline Price Climbs, AAA Reports
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-03-27T13:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/vacation-trips-may-shrink-as-gasoline-price-climbs-aaa-reports.html
Rising U.S. gasoline prices will
probably prompt Americans to visit tourist sites closer to home
and limit their itineraries, travel adviser AAA said.  Mark Brown, executive vice president for the non-profit
group with more than 53 million members, told a House Natural
Resources Committee hearing that its members were making
adjustments as gasoline approached $4 a gallon.  “Members are not canceling their vacation driving plans at
this time, but may scale back the distances and the number of
destinations,” Brown said in written testimony distributed
before today’s hearing in Washington.  As oil and gasoline prices rise,  House Republicans  and the
 energy industry  have urged President Barack Obama’s
administration to increase oil production and approve building
 TransCanada Corp’s (TRP)  Keystone XL pipeline from  Canada  to limit
dependence on unstable supplies from the  Middle East .  Crude oil advanced more than 8 percent this year, and the
average price for unleaded gasoline at the pump climbed about 19
percent to $3.90 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA  data .  Sam Gilliland, chief executive officer of  Sabre Holdings
Corp (TSG) ., the largest U.S.-based global air-fare distribution
system, told the committee the U.S. needs to support vehicles
using natural gas and electric power to limit the impact of
rising oil prices.  “Even if we produce more domestic oil and use less, our
nation will still be subject to the price volatility inherent in
the global oil market,” Gilliland said in prepared remarks.
“We must fundamentally break oil’s stranglehold on the
transportation sector.”  More than half of Americans who plan to travel by car this
summer said further gasoline-price increases would make them
take fewer trips or spend less on meals, shopping and
entertainment, Gilliland said, citing data from the U.S. Travel
Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  