-- Volcker Shift, Securities-Suit Deadlines, Biomet: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-03-27T11:50:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/volcker-shift-securities-suit-deadlines-biomet-compliance.html
After a four-month lobbying blitz
led by firms including Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) , there are signs that the fight
over the Volcker rule may be shifting in Wall Street’s favor.  U.S. regulators and lawmakers are signaling they’re
receptive to delaying and revising their plan, named for the
former  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Paul Volcker , to stop banks from
making speculative trades on their own accounts. Representative
Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat and co-author of the 2010
law mandating the ban, urged regulators last week to simplify
their first draft, while a bipartisan group of senators proposed
pushing back its effective date.  Banking executives have long seen the Volcker rule as one
of the most threatening parts of the Dodd-Frank regulatory
overhaul, an assault on a lucrative line of business. To make
their case in Washington, banks and trade associations have been
pressing a coordinated campaign to get regulators from five
federal agencies to scale back the draft of the proprietary-
trading rule issued in October, according to public and internal
documents and interviews. They recruited money managers,
industrial companies, municipal officials and foreign
governments to their side.  Some banks recommended consultants and law firms to help
clients write letters arguing that the proposed language defines
proprietary trading too broadly. Partnering with trade
associations, the banks also commissioned studies, tested
messages with focus groups, distributed talking points and set
up a phone hotline for Capitol Hill staffers.  At a  House Financial Services  panel on Jan. 18, agency
heads including Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary
Schapiro  spoke of the challenge they faced writing a rule to end
risky practices without crimping the flow of capital. Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said in a Dallas speech this month
that there was “absolutely some work to do” on the provision.  JPMorgan spokesman  Jennifer Zuccarelli , Credit Suisse
spokesman Jack Grone and Goldman Sachs spokesman David Wells
declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  CFTC Will This Week on High Frequency Trading; INCTAD Study  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission will hold a
meeting March 29 of the Technology Advisory Committee on
automated, high frequency trading, the agency said in a
statement.  The public meeting also will mark the first gathering of
the new Automated and High Frequency Trading Subcommittee, which
will focus on crafting suggestions on a definition of high
frequency trading. The subcommittee, which will be headed by
CFTC’s chief economist  Andrei Kirilenko , will hold several
meetings this year.  Separately, an increase in high-frequency trading in
commodities is boosting the short-term correlation between
prices for raw materials, including oil and food, with stocks
and other assets, a study found.  Commodities have developed a correlation with U.S. stock
markets at periods from one second to five minutes with the
advance of high-frequency trading, which uses algorithms to
analyze markets and execute orders, according to a study by
Geneva-based economic affairs officers David Bicchetti and
Nicolas Maystre at the  United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development .  High-frequency trading became more prevalent with technical
innovation and introduction of full electronic trading, and also
as investors opted for more active strategies, according to a
 copy  of the forthcoming UNCTAD discussion paper posted on the
Munich Personal RePEc Archive on March 20.  U.S. Regulators to Overhaul Supervision of Leveraged Loans  The three top U.S. banking regulators will issue tougher
guidelines for high-risk, high-yield loans, and asked yesterday
for public comment on the proposed rules.  “While there was a pull-back in leveraged lending during
the crisis, volumes have since increased, while prudent
underwriting practices have deteriorated,” the Federal Reserve,
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency said in a release in Washington.  Regulatory agencies have boosted their surveillance of
financial-market and bank-lending trends to avert the emergence
of asset bubbles that may lead to financial turmoil. While
guidance isn’t enforceable, it details acceptable standards and
provides examiners in routine bank exams with a rationale for
targeting leveraged loans for tougher oversight.  Debt agreements “have frequently included features that
provide relatively limited lender protection, including the
absence of meaningful maintenance covenants,” the  agencies
said .  The regulators said the “vast majority” of community
banks shouldn’t be affected because they have little exposure to
leveraged loans. Comments on the proposal must be submitted by
June 8.  For more, click here.  EU Said to Consider Compromise Proposals on Transaction Taxes  European Union officials are considering a financial-
transaction tax deal that leaves out the most controversial
elements of current proposals and offers more flexibility in
applying the levy, an EU official said.  EU nations may consider approaches that apply to fewer
products, such as excluding bonds and derivatives, and that
operate within national borders, said the official, who declined
to be identified because the information is confidential. That
contrasts with a current plan, put forward by the EU’s
regulatory arm, which would tax companies in their home country
regardless of where trades took place.  Finance ministers may discuss the transaction tax at a
meeting in Copenhagen this week, said Preben Aamann, a spokesman
for Denmark, which holds the EU’s rotating six-month presidency.
The commission’s initial proposal would use some of the tax’s
revenue to support the EU budget. If all 27 EU nations agree on
a narrower plan than the current proposal, it would keep alive
the prospect of raising revenue for the broader economic union,
the EU official said.  EU Ratings Rotation Plan Said to Face Possible Rejection  European Union finance ministers may scrap  plans  to force
companies to rotate the credit-ratings companies they use on
concerns that the measure may harm investor confidence and
increase market volatility.  Denmark, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU,
will seek an agreement by ministers this week on whether to
delete the proposal, according to two people familiar with the
matter who couldn’t be cited by name because the talks are
private.  Michel Barnier , the region’s financial services chief,
proposed the rotation rule last year as part of a draft law to
toughen regulation of the industry amid concerns that some
ratings decisions had exacerbated the region’s fiscal crisis.
The U.K., Germany and Spain are among more than 10 EU nations in
favor of removing the requirement from the law and possibly
discussing it again when rivals to the so-called big three of
Fitch Ratings Ltd., Moody’s Investors Service Inc. and  Standard
& Poor’s  may have increased their market share and resources,
according to one of the people.  Under Barnier’s plan, companies would be expected to change
the company they pay to rate their credit every three years. The
time limit could be extended if a business hires more than one
ratings company.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Bats Blaming Code in IPO Stirs Concern on Market Complexity  The software error that derailed the initial public
offering of  Bats Global Markets Inc. (BATS) , where 11 percent of all
U.S. stock trading occurs, rattled investors concerned about the
growing complexity of financial markets.  Joe Ratterman, the chief executive officer, canceled the
March 23 IPO after a computer malfunction kept Bats from trading
on its own platform and forced a halt in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s
biggest company by market value. Transactions in Apple and
trades for more than 1 million Bats shares were later canceled.  While engineers at the third-largest U.S. exchange owner
reacted in seconds to restore order, the failed debut
highlighted concerns about electronic exchanges at a time when
regulation of financial markets is increasing after the worst
crisis since the Great Depression. New venues have helped cut
the proportion of shares changing hands on the  New York Stock
Exchange (NYX)  and Nasdaq Stock Market in the corporations they list
to less than 26 percent from at least 80 percent in 1997.  Daniel Hawke, an official with the SEC’s enforcement
division, said last month that the agency is examining trading
practices that gained dominance in the past decade amid the
shift to automation. Regulators are weighing the benefits of
electronic markets and exchange competition, which sped up
executions and cut commissions for individuals, against
technology concerns linked to faster trading and connections
between venues.  Ratterman said scrapping the deal reflected its
responsibility as a self-regulatory organization to maintain
fair and orderly trading.  For more, click here.  RBS Rate Traders Sat With Libor Setter, Fired Employee Says  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s interest-rate traders
were seated with one of the main rate setters in its  London 
office to share information, and discussed rates on conference
calls, a fired trader said.  Tan Chi Min, let go over accusations he manipulated the
London interbank offered rate, made the claims in court papers
filed with the Singapore High Court on March 23. Tan, who sued
RBS for wrongful dismissal, has accused the bank of using an
internal probe into Libor manipulation to find scapegoats after
condoning such behavior.  Regulators worldwide are investigating whether banks
attempted to manipulate rates including Libor, the basis for
$360 trillion of securities around the globe. The probes have
called into question whether the banks can be trusted to set the
rates with minimal regulatory oversight. Investigators have
sought information from lenders including RBS, Citigroup Inc.
and  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   Paul White , RBS’s principal rate setter for yen Libor, and
Tan’s team in London were “specifically seated together” in
the London office to “facilitate the sharing of information and
workload,” Tan, the bank’s former head of short-term interest-
rate trading for the yen, said in court papers.  White, who was based in London, was also dismissed as part
of the bank’s Libor probe, two people briefed on the matter said
last month. He hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing by regulators.
Contact numbers for White couldn’t be located through the
Internet or directory assistance.  Tan’s lawyer Suresh Nair declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Courts  Investment Bank Dispute Ordered Reconsidered by High Court  The  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  told a lower court to reconsider
deadlines for some securities lawsuits, in a dispute about
whether investment banks must face accusations that they
manipulated dozens of initial public offerings.  The 8-0 ruling yesterday is a partial victory for seven
Wall Street firms, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , whose units were among the defendants in the case.  The ruling ordered lower courts to reconsider how long an
investor can wait before filing lawsuits seeking to hold
underwriters and corporate insiders accountable for “short
swing” trades, those involving stock held for less than six
months. Under federal securities law, insiders with large enough
holdings must give back any profits from short-swing trades.  The high court overturned part of a decision by the 9th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which said a two-year time limit
for lawsuits over short-swing profits doesn’t begin until
corporate insiders disclose the transactions in regulatory
filings.  The justices split 4-4 on whether the law permits any
extension of the deadline beyond two years after the stock-sale
profits are realized. Chief Justice John Roberts, without giving
a reason, didn’t participate in the case. The tie vote on that
part of the case leaves intact the portion of the lower court
decision that permits extensions of the deadline under some
circumstances.  The justices sent the case back for further proceedings to
determine what those circumstances may be, under rules that
permit extensions of a statute of limitations in situations
where a defendant has fraudulently concealed wrongdoing.  The justices told a federal appeals court to consider
whether shareholder Vanessa Simmonds had enough information
about the alleged wrongdoing that she should have filed suit
sooner.  In addition to Simmonds, other defendants include units of
Citigroup Inc.,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DB) ,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Bank of America Corp. , as well as
Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs.  The case is Credit Suisse v. Simmonds, 10-1261.  Biomet to Pay $22.9 Million to Settle U.S. Bribery Claims  Biomet Inc., (BMET)  a closely held maker of medical devices,
agreed to pay $22.9 million to settle U.S. accusations that it
bribed foreign doctors to win business, the government said.  Biomet, based in Warsaw, Indiana, will pay a $17.3 million
criminal fine to the U.S. Justice Department and $5.6 million to
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the SEC said
yesterday in a statement.  The SEC sued Biomet under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
yesterday in federal court in Washington. The regulator alleged
the company and four of its subsidiaries from 2000 to 2008 paid
bribes to doctors in Argentina, Brazil and  China .  Bill Kolter, a spokesman for Biomet, declined to
immediately comment on the settlement or bribery allegations.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Biomet Inc., 12-00454, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  EU Should Win Lagardere Stake Sale Challenge, Court Aide Says  European Union regulators should win an appeal against a
court ruling that annulled  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s sale of a 60 percent
stake in a French publisher to  Wendel (MF) , a court aide said in a
non-binding opinion.  The EU’s Court of Justice, which gives nonbinding
decisions, should overturn a 2010 judgment that said the
European Commission didn’t properly review the sale of the
Editis stake to Wendel, France’s largest publicly traded
investment firm, said the court’s advocate general Jan Mazak in
a legal opinion.  Interviews  Shilling Says U.S. Banks Becoming ‘Financial Utilities’  Gary Shilling, president of  A. Gary Shilling & Co. , talked
about the outlook for U.S. financial stocks.  Shilling spoke with Mark Crumpton on Bloomberg Television’s
“Bottom Line.” (Shilling is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Germany Will Work With Banks on BaFin Supervisor Nomination  Germany plans to work with the country’s banks on devising
a process for nominating overseers for financial markets
regulator BaFin, Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said
yesterday at a conference in Berlin.  BaFin’s supervisory body never saw the need to interfere
with regulation and banks don’t want to be BaFin’s “sole
financiers” if they are removed from their position as
overseers, Uwe Froehlich, president of the Bundesverband der
Deutschen Volksbanken und Raiffeisenbanken, said yesterday at
the conference.  Citigroup Lines Up Managers for Japan Unit After Rule Breaches  Citigroup Inc. (C)  lined up executives to lead Japanese
operations as the third-biggest U.S. bank by assets seeks to
restore its reputation in the country following regulatory
breaches.  Peter Eliot will become chief executive officer of the
Japan holding company in June, according to a person with
knowledge of the appointment who declined to be identified
because it hasn’t been announced publicly. Kazuya Jono will join
the company from  Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. (8318)  to become
president of the banking unit in the same month, the person
said.  Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit is trying to restore
Citigroup’s standing in Japan, where regulators punished the New
York-based lender for at least the third time in seven years in
December. The selections of Eliot and Jono follow the
resignation of Darren Buckley from both roles in January.  Mika Nemoto, a spokeswoman for Citigroup in Japan, declined
to comment. The appointments were reported earlier today by the
Nikkei newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 