-- Solars Slide on Prospect Italy to Cut Subsidies: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-03-27T23:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/web-stocks-rise-on-consumption-boost-prospects-china-overnight.html
Solar stocks led a decline in
Chinese shares traded in  New York  on speculation that Italy will
follow  Germany  in cutting subsidies to the industry, dimming the
outlook for global installations.  LDK Solar Co. tumbled the most in four days while  Trina
Solar Ltd. (TSL)  dropped to a two-week low. The  Bloomberg China-US
Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese shares in the U.S. lost
0.3 percent to 105.42 yesterday, falling for the first time in
three days. China Petroleum & Chemical Corp.,  Asia ’s largest
refiner, traded at its biggest discount to  Hong Kong  shares in
three months.  Italy, the world’s second-largest solar market, is
proposing to cut its industry subsidy by 50 percent, Citigroup
Inc. technology analyst  Timothy Arcuri  said in a research note
e-mailed yesterday, citing a first draft of the European
nation’s fifth energy plan that the bank had obtained. Germany,
the biggest solar market, will reduce aid to the industry by as
much as 29 percent from April 1.  “Solar stocks’ trading reacted to the news on the subsidy
cut in  Italy  where solar sales normally offer manufacturers
higher margins,” Chris Kettenmann, an analyst at Miller Tabak &
Co LLC in New York said by phone yesterday. “The reductions in
subsidies in Germany and Italy would be absorbed by cost cutting
at Chinese solar makers.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., retreated 0.2 percent to
$37.25, after climbing the most in two weeks on March 26.  ‘Significant Slowdown’  LDK, a solar wafer producer based in Xinyu in Jiangxi
province, slid 5.4 percent to $4.24, the biggest daily drop
since March 21. Trina, China’s fifth-largest solar-panel
supplier based in Changzhou in the eastern Jiangsu province,
lost 2.7 percent to $7.44, the lowest level since March 12.
Suntech Power Holdings Co., the world’s largest solar-panel
maker, sank 1.6 percent to a two-week low of $3.05.  The cost of photovoltaic subsidies in Italy is higher than
Citigroup had estimated, Arcuri said, citing the Italian energy
document. The plan indicates “a significant slowdown in the
market, and the ongoing ad-hoc nature of cuts in Germany and
Italy means financing for big projects in  Europe  will remain
challenging,” analysts led by Arcuri wrote in the report.  American depositary receipts of  China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp. (SNP) , known as Sinopec, retreated 0.9 percent in its first
decline in three days, to $112.40 as oil futures rose for a
third day on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The ADRs, each
representing 100 common shares in Sinopec, traded 1.3 percent
 below  its Hong Kong stock, the biggest discount since Dec. 19.  The company, Asia’s largest refiner, added 0.8 percent to
HK$8.84 in Hong Kong, or $1.14 per share, while shares climbed
0.1 percent to 7.45 yuan in Shanghai trading, the equivalent of
$1.18.  Sinopec Output  The refiner plans to boost oil output in western China and
increase exploration for unconventional resources including gas
from shale formations, it said in a statement March 26, as
fourth-quarter profit dropped 23 percent, missing the
mean forecast of seven analysts, on refining losses.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 0.1 percent to a six-
week low of 2,347.18 yesterday.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  for Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong added 2.1
percent, snapping a nine-day slump, to 10,811.07.  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , China’s biggest Internet
bookseller known as Dangdang, jumped 9.5 percent to $8.17, the
highest level since Jan. 27.  Dangdang, Vipshop  Andy Yeung, a New York-based analyst for Oppenheimer & Co.
 raised  Dangdang to outperform from market-perform yesterday,
indicating he expects it to gain more than the market. Yeung set
a price target of $9.50 over the next 12 to 18 months. Wallace Cheung, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Credit Suisse AG, also
lifted Dangdang’s price target to $9 from $8.60, while
maintaining an outperform rating.  Dangdang’s ADRs have jumped 86 percent this year because
investors prefer the company over less cash-rich e-commerce
businesses as credit conditions in  China  tighten, according to
Tian X Hou, founder and chief executive officer of T.H. Capital
LLC, a research firm focusing on U.S.-listed Chinese stocks.  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS) , a Guangzhou-based online discount
retailer, raised 39 percent less than was targeted on March 23
in the first initial public offering by a Chinese company in the
U.S. in seven months. The shares fell 2.1 percent to $4.60
yesterday.  The e-commerce industry is “showing signs of improvement
as difficult funding conditions in the past year begin to
curtail irrational price wars and aggressive promotions,”
Oppenheimer’s Yeung wrote in a research note yesterday.
“Dangdang is one of the favorite e-commerce brands, a top five
business-to-consumer website that reaches 16 million to 20
million users per month. Dangdang has under-monetized its user
base and traffic.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  declined 0.3 percent to
1,412.52 after the Conference Board’s consumer confidence index
dropped to 70.2 from a revised 71.6 reading in February, failing
to encourage investors after the gauge advanced to an almost
four-year high earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  