-- Wells Fargo Must Face Class Action Over Securities Lending
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B e t h   H a w k i n s
-- 2012-03-27T21:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/wells-fargo-must-face-securities-lending-class-action-lawsuit.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  must face a group
lawsuit by institutional investors that claim the bank marketed
a risky securities-lending program as safe.  U.S. District Judge Donovan W. Frank in  St. Paul ,
Minnesota, certified the suit as a class action today, finding
that common issues predominated, including whether Wells Fargo
“knew or should have known that the investments it selected did
not comport with investment mandates.” These issues “will
likely turn on substantially the same evidence for the class as
a whole,” Frank said in a 21-page decision.  The lawsuit, filed in 2010 by the City of Farmington Hills
Employees Retirement System, a Michigan pension fund, on behalf
of more than 100 other institutional investors, claimed breach
of fiduciary duty and fraud. The investors sought permission to
pursue the case against Wells Fargo as a group.  Wells Fargo “touted” its securities-lending program “as
a highly-secure way for its institutional clients to maximize
portfolio returns,” according to the complaint. Instead, the
pension fund said, “Wells Fargo invested a substantial portion
of the collateral in extremely risky securities.”  The investors also claimed that Wells Fargo concealed
 investment performance  from class members to prevent them from
exiting the securities-lending program.  ‘Categorically Denies’  Wells Fargo will “appeal the decision immediately,” Laura Fay, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco-based company, said in
an e-mail. “Wells Fargo categorically denies the allegations
made in this lawsuit and will vigorously defend.”  Securities lending is a practice whereby investors lend
stock or other investments to banks or brokers. In return, the
bank places cash collateral on behalf of the investor into
short-term investments until the shares are eventually returned.
It had been traditionally viewed by pension funds and
foundations as a low-risk investment.  The securities lending program had 132 participants, Peter Binkow, lead attorney for the plaintiffs, said in an interview.
Several are suing on their own, he said.  A class action is superior to multiple individual suits in
promoting “the interests of judicial economy and efficiency,”
Frank said today. “Class members who may not otherwise have the
means to litigate their claims will likely benefit greatly from
a class action, and a class action will ensure that class
members who are otherwise unaware that they possess a claim will
have their rights represented.”  Lost Verdict  Wells Fargo lost a jury verdict in 2010 of about
$30 million to four  Minnesota  nonprofits making similar claims
about the securities-lending program. The St. Paul state court
verdict has been appealed, Fay said.  In that case, the  Minnesota Workers’ Compensation
Reinsurance Association  and three charitable foundations sued in
2008, claiming the bank failed to disclose the deteriorating
value of the investments until it was too late and blocked them
from getting out of the program.  The class action is City of Farmington Hills Employees
Retirement System v. Wells Fargo Bank NA, 10-cv-04372, U.S.
District Court, District of Minnesota (St. Paul).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Hawkins in Minneapolis at  hawkins@visi.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  