-- Wheat-Quality Concern May Spur Iranian Imports, Macquarie Says
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-03-27T12:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/wheat-quality-concern-may-spur-iranian-imports-macquarie-says.html
Concern about the quality of  Iran ’s
wheat crop may lie behind indications of higher imports of the
grain into the country, according to Macquarie Group Ltd.  Iran plans to buy as much as 3 million metric tons of
wheat,  India ’s Agricultural and Processed Food Product Export
Development Authority said on its website. That would be more
than a fifth of the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s estimate
for this year’s Iranian harvest. The U.S. made its biggest sale
of wheat to Iran since 2008, the USDA said March 1.  “The only reason I can justify Iran having massive imports
is that they’re preparing for a quality problem in a couple of
months,” Christopher Gadd, a London-based analyst at Macquarie,
said by phone today.  Iranian wheat production may fall 11 percent this year to
13.75 million tons as imports almost double to 1 million tons,
according to the USDA. Higher wheat imports also may enable
Iran’s government to control unrest over food prices that
sparked riots in the Arab world and led to the ouster of leaders
in nations including  Egypt , Gadd said in a report last month.  Gadd also pointed to sanctions by the U.S. and European
Union against Iran aimed at curbing the Middle East nation’s
nuclear program. They may “limit the number of banks globally
that are willing to offer letters of credit” for grain trading
in Iran, he said.  Domestic Output  The sanctions exclude raw materials used in  food 
production. Increasing domestic production of goods is the best
way to counter the measures’ effects, Supreme Leader Ayatollah
Ali Khamenei told Iranians last week as they began almost two
weeks of celebrations for Nowrouz, the start of the Iranian
calendar year.  About 400,000 tons of mostly Russian and Ukrainian grain
sat in ships outside Iranian ports as buyers were unable to pay
because of the sanctions, Gadd said. The grain was mostly sold
to other importers at a “deep” discount, he said. Malaysia and
 Indonesia  stopped supplying Iran with vegetable oils because of
worries about receiving payment.  “Letters of credit have become scarce for the grains trade
as EU banks have pulled away from Iran,” Gadd said in the
report. “This has left it increasingly difficult for private
Iranian traders to source replacement grains.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 