-- Wisconsin Recall ’Fatigue’ Distracts Voters From Primary
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-03-27T20:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/wisconsin-recall-fatigue-distracts-voters-from-primary.html
Political yard signs and bumper
stickers are plentiful in Wisconsin these days. They just don’t
carry the names  Mitt Romney  or  Rick Santorum .  Wisconsin Republicans are more focused on protecting their
governor,  Scott Walker , from recall than on the April 3
presidential primary in their state. Romney and Santorum have to
convince party activists to focus some attention on them rather
than solely on trying to protect Walker’s job in the recall
election tentatively set for June 5, a vote triggered by anger
over anti-union legislation the governor signed last year.  “The attention of most of the voters is on the state
recall,” said Don Taylor, the Republican chairman in Waukesha
County, a suburban area west of Milwaukee that’s a party
stronghold. “There isn’t a lot of attention right now on the
presidential primary.”  Voters are suffering from “complete political fatigue”
from the drama that has played out around Walker, Taylor said.
“We’re all sick and tired of it, but we know how important it
is.”  Poll Results  A poll released today by the Milwaukee-based Marquette
University Law School shows Romney leading Santorum among likely
Republican primary voters, 39 percent to 31 percent. U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  had 11 percent and former U.S.
House Speaker Newt Gingrich 5 percent.  To win on April 3, Romney needs to cut into Santorum’s
support among working-class and rural voters, whose proportions
are greater in Wisconsin, according to exit polls, than in
Illinois, where the former Massachusetts governor scored a 12-
percentage-point victory March 20. Restore Our Future, a
political action committee supporting Romney, has already poured
more than $800,000 into  television advertising  in the state.  A win for Santorum is critical to keep his underdog
campaign credible ahead of a three-week break before the next
round of primaries that includes  New York  and  Pennsylvania .  Former Wisconsin Governor Tommy Thompson, a Republican who
hasn’t endorsed in the presidential race,  told  reporters last
week that “if Senator Santorum can’t do well in  Wisconsin , it’s
over.”  The latest figures in the Marquette poll are a reversal
from those in a similar survey in mid-February. In that poll,
Santorum led Romney in Wisconsin by 16 percentage points. The
new poll was conducted March 22-25 and has an error margin of
plus-or-minus 5.4 points.  Unpredictable State  The  Wisconsin (BEESWI)  contest will play out in a state with a
tradition of unpredictable political crosscurrents.  Wisconsin elected Republican Joseph McCarthy to the Senate,
where his anti-communist campaign in the 1950s ended the careers
of some Americans accused of having links to the party.
President  Barack Obama  won Wisconsin by 14 percentage points in
2008; two years later Republicans won the governor’s office and
both chambers of the state legislature, and defeated Democratic
incumbent Senator  Russ Feingold .  Tea Party activists were an important constituency behind
Republican  Ron Johnson ’s Senate win and the movement, which
promotes a smaller role for the federal government, remains a
force.  Republican Leaders  Three of the biggest names in Republican politics today
call Wisconsin home: Walker, Republican National Committee
Chairman Reince Priebus and House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , whose proposed overhaul of Medicaid and Medicare has
become a Democratic rallying cry.  In the recall fight, Romney, 65, and Santorum, 53, are
aligning with Walker. Yet getting too close to the governor, who
hasn’t endorsed any of the presidential candidates, could be
damaging for the eventual Republican nominee in November. A
quarter of the state’s voters in  2008  were part of a union
household.  The campaign for Wisconsin will play out amid an
 unemployment rate  of 6.9 percent, below the national average of
8.3 percent.  At stake are 42 of the 1,144 delegates needed to win the
Republican nomination. The statewide winner will get 18
delegates and the rest will also be awarded winner-take-all
based on the outcome in each of eight congressional districts.  Santorum will be seeking to break Romney’s Midwestern
victory streak in a state where the demographic mix of voters is
more favorable to him than it was in neighboring  Illinois .
Wisconsin is more like  Michigan  and  Ohio , where Santorum held
Romney to wins of 3 percentage points and 1 percentage point,
than it is to Illinois.  Santorum Visit  Santorum campaigned in the state on March 24 in a quest to
win over voters like Bruce Cook, a retired lift truck mechanic
who lives in Racine County and has a pro-Walker bumper sticker
on his motorcycle.  “It’s a toss-up for me between Santorum and Romney,”
Cook, 63, said late last week while eating an omelet at the
Castlewood Restaurant in Sturtevant, Wisconsin. “I like
Santorum’s Christian values and upbringing, but he sometimes has
a problem of engaging his mouth before his brain.”  Racine County is a fading industrial area squeezed between
the suburbs of  Milwaukee  and the sprawl that creeps north from
the Chicago metropolitan area. It’s filled with the kind of
working-class voters, those without college degrees or those who
earn between $25,000 and $100,000, Santorum won in earlier state
contests.  No Degrees  In 2008, 61 percent of Republican primary voters in
Wisconsin didn’t have a college degree, according to  exit polls .
That’s higher than the 55  percent  who cast Republican ballots in
Ohio’s March 6 primary, and the  51 percent  of voters with no
college degree in Illinois.  The size of Wisconsin’s working-class vote could be an
advantage to Santorum, who beat Romney 39 percent to 34 percent
among Ohio Republicans without a college degree.  Santorum’s biggest base of support has been evangelical
Christians, a group that represented 38 percent of the 2008
primary vote in Wisconsin, compared with 47 percent in Ohio
earlier this month. Rural voters made up 41 percent of voters in
the primary four years ago, compared with just 11 percent on
March 20 in Illinois.  Romney Courts Wealthy  For Romney, more affluent suburban areas will be critical,
as they were for him in Illinois, Ohio and Michigan this year.  Restore Our Future, the pro-Romney PAC, had spent an
estimated $832,200 through yesterday to air ads 1,884 times on
broadcast stations in the Milwaukee area and elsewhere,
according to New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks
advertising. All have been anti-Santorum.  Romney’s campaign has chimed in with 457 broadcast
television ads, at an estimated cost of $146,150, according to
CMAG. The majority of the spots have attacked Santorum.  A pro-Santorum PAC -- the Red, White and Blue Fund -- began
airing ads in the state today, CMAG reported. No cost estimates
are yet available.  Waukesha County, the third-most populous in the state and
the county with the highest median  household income , is such an
important area that Romney’s campaign was shopping for  office
space  there last week in the same strip mall that houses the
local party’s offices.  The county provided 12 percent of the statewide Republican
vote in the 2010 general election and that proportion tends to
be even higher in primary elections.  At Waukesha County Republican headquarters late last week,
volunteers were busy working the phones in support of Walker.
Among them was Chris Maurer, 62, who said the recall has
mobilized Republican voters.  “The Democrats have energized people,” he said, referring
to the petition drive they organized to force Walker into a
recall election. “They unleashed a torrent of people who never
got involved other than to vote.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Waukesha, Wisconsin at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  