-- World Leaders to Strengthen Nuclear Security: Statement Text
-- B y
-- 2012-03-27T09:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/world-leaders-to-strengthen-nuclear-security-statement-text.html
Following is a reformatted version
of a joint declaration of leaders attending the 2012  Seoul 
Nuclear Security Summit in the South Korean capital today.  We, the leaders, gathered in Seoul on March 26-27, 2012, renew
the political commitments generated from the 2010 Washington
Nuclear Security Summit to work toward strengthening nuclear
security, reducing the threat of nuclear terrorism, and
preventing terrorists, criminals, or other unauthorized actors
from acquiring nuclear materials. Nuclear terrorism continues to
be one of the most challenging threats to international security.
Defeating this threat requires strong national measures and
international cooperation given its potential global political,
economic, social, and psychological consequences.  We reaffirm our shared goals of nuclear disarmament, nuclear
nonproliferation and peaceful uses of nuclear energy.  Committed to seeking a safer world for all, we also all share
the objective of nuclear security. We recognize that the Nuclear
Security Summit is a valuable process at the highest political
level, supporting our joint call to secure all vulnerable
nuclear material in four years. In this regard, we welcome the
substantive progress being made on the political commitments of
Participating States since the Washington Summit.  We stress the fundamental responsibility of States, consistent
with their respective national and international obligations, to
maintain effective security of all nuclear material, which
includes nuclear materials used in nuclear weapons, and nuclear
facilities under their control, and to prevent non-state actors
from acquiring such materials and from obtaining information or
technology required to use them for malicious purposes. We
likewise recognize the fundamental responsibility of States to
maintain effective security of other radioactive materials.  We reaffirm that measures to strengthen nuclear security will
not hamper the rights of States to develop and utilize nuclear
energy for peaceful purposes.  Noting the essential role of the  International Atomic Energy
Agency  (IAEA) in facilitating international cooperation and
supporting the efforts of States to fulfill their nuclear
security responsibilities, we further stress the importance of
regional and international cooperation, and encourage States to
promote cooperation with and outreach activities to
international partners.  Noting the Fukushima accident of March 2011 and the nexus
between nuclear security and nuclear safety, we consider that
sustained efforts are required to address the issues of nuclear
safety and nuclear security in a coherent manner that will help
ensure the safe and secure peaceful uses of nuclear energy.  We will continue to use the Washington Communiqué and Work Plan
as a basis for our future work in advancing our nuclear security
objectives. At this Seoul Summit, we agree that we will make
every possible effort to achieve further progress in the
following important areas.  Global Nuclear Security Architecture  1. We recognize the importance of multilateral instruments that
address nuclear security, such as the Convention on the Physical
Protection of Nuclear Material (CPPNM), as amended, and the
International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear
Terrorism (ICSANT). We therefore encourage the universal
adherence to these Conventions. We urge states in a position to
do so to accelerate their domestic approval of the 2005
Amendment to the CPPNM, seeking to bring the Amendment into
force by 2014. We acknowledge the important role of the  United
Nations  (UN) in promoting nuclear security, support the UN
Security Council Resolutions 1540 and 1977 in strengthening
global nuclear security, and welcome the extension of its
mandate. We will strive to use the IAEA Physical Protection of
Nuclear Material and Nuclear Facilities (INFCIRC/225/Rev.5)
document and related Nuclear Security Series documents, and
reflect them into national practice.  2. We recognize the contributions since the 2010 Summit of
international initiatives and processes such as the Global
Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism (GICNT) and Global
Partnership against the Spread of Weapons and Materials of Mass
Destruction, within their respective mandates and memberships.
We welcome the wider participation in the GICNT and the Global
Partnership and value its extension beyond 2012. Noting the
importance of strengthening coordination and complementarity
among nuclear security activities, we welcome the proposal of
the IAEA to organize an international conference in 2013. We
welcome contributions from the industry, academia, institutes
and civil society that promote nuclear security.  Role of the IAEA  3. We reaffirm the essential responsibility and central role of
the IAEA in strengthening the international nuclear security
framework, and recognize the value of the IAEA Nuclear Security
Plan 2010-2013. We will work to ensure that the IAEA continues
to have the appropriate structure, resources and expertise
needed to support the implementation of nuclear security
objectives. To this end, we encourage States in a position to do
so and the nuclear industry to increase voluntary contributions
to the IAEA’s Nuclear Security Fund, as well as in-kind
contributions. We also encourage continued IAEA activities to
assist, upon request, national efforts to establish and enhance
nuclear security infrastructure through its various support
programs, and encourage States to make use of these IAEA
resources.  Nuclear Materials  4. Recognizing that highly enriched uranium (HEU) and separated
plutonium require special precautions, we reemphasize the
importance of appropriately securing, accounting for and
consolidating these materials. We also encourage States to
consider the safe, secure and timely removal and disposition of
nuclear materials from facilities no longer using them, as
appropriate, and consistent with national security
considerations and development objectives.  5. We recognize that the development, within the framework of
the IAEA, of options for national policies on HEU management
will advance nuclear security objectives. We encourage States to
take measures to minimize the use of HEU, including through the
conversion of reactors from highly enriched to low enriched
uranium (LEU) fuel, where technically and economically feasible,
taking into account the need for assured supplies of medical
isotopes, and encourage States in a position to do so, by the
end of 2013, to announce voluntary specific actions intended to
minimize the use of HEU. We also encourage States to promote the
use of LEU fuels and targets in commercial applications such as
isotope production, and in this regard, welcome relevant
international cooperation on high-density LEU fuel to support
the conversion of research and test reactors.  Radioactive Sources  6. Taking into account that radioactive sources are widely used
and can be vulnerable to malicious acts, we urge States to
secure these materials, while bearing in mind their uses in
industrial, medical, agricultural and research applications. To
this end, we encourage States in a position to do so to continue
to work towards the process of ratifying or acceding to the
ICSANT; reflect into national practices relevant IAEA Nuclear
Security Series documents, the IAEA Code of Conduct on the
Safety and Security of Radioactive Sources and its supplementary
document on the IAEA Guidance on the Import and Export of
Radioactive Sources; and establish national registers of high-
activity radioactive sources where required. We also commit to
work closely with the IAEA to encourage cooperation on advanced
technologies and systems, share best practices on the management
of radioactive sources, and provide technical assistance to
States upon their request. In addition, we encourage continued
national efforts and international cooperation to recover lost,
missing or stolen sources and to maintain control over disused
sources.  Nuclear Security and Safety  7. Acknowledging that safety measures and security measures have
in common the aim of protecting human life and health and the
environment, we affirm that nuclear security and nuclear safety
measures should be designed, implemented and managed in nuclear
facilities in a coherent and synergistic manner. We also affirm
the need to maintain effective emergency preparedness, response
and mitigation capabilities in a manner that addresses both
nuclear security and nuclear safety. In this regard, we welcome
the efforts of the IAEA to organize meetings to provide relevant
recommendations on the interface between nuclear security and
nuclear safety so that neither security nor safety is
compromised. We also welcome the convening of the High Level
Meeting on Nuclear Safety and Security initiated by the UN
Secretary-General, held in  New York  on 22 September 2011. Noting
that the security of nuclear and other radioactive materials
also includes spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste, we
encourage States to consider establishing appropriate plans for
the management of these materials.  Transportation Security  8. We will continue efforts to enhance the security of nuclear
and other radioactive materials while in domestic and
international transport, and encourage States to share best
practices and cooperate in acquiring the necessary technologies
to this end. Recognizing the importance of a national layered
defense against the loss or theft of nuclear and other
radioactive materials, we encourage the establishment of
effective national nuclear material inventory management and
domestic tracking mechanisms, where required, that enable States
to take appropriate measures to recover lost and stolen
materials.  Combating Illicit Trafficking  9. We underscore the need to develop national capabilities to
prevent, detect, respond to and prosecute illicit nuclear
trafficking. In this regard, we encourage action-oriented
coordination among national capacities to combat illicit
trafficking, consistent with national laws and regulations. We
will work to enhance technical capabilities in the field of
national inspection and detection of nuclear and other
radioactive materials at the borders. Noting that several
countries have passed export control laws to regulate nuclear
transfers, we encourage further utilization of legal,
intelligence and financial tools to effectively prosecute
offenses, as appropriate and consistent with national laws. In
addition, we encourage States to participate in the IAEA Illicit
Trafficking Database program and to provide necessary
information relating to nuclear and other radioactive materials
outside of regulatory control. We will work to strengthen
cooperation among States and encourage them to share information,
consistent with national regulations, on individuals involved in
trafficking offenses of nuclear and other radioactive materials,
including through INTERPOL’s Radiological and Nuclear Terrorism
Prevention Unit and the World Customs Organization.  Nuclear Forensics  10. We recognize that nuclear forensics can be an effective tool
in determining the origin of detected nuclear and other
radioactive materials and in providing evidence for the
prosecution of acts of illicit trafficking and malicious uses.
In this regard, we encourage States to work with one another, as
well as with the IAEA, to develop and enhance nuclear forensics
capabilities. In this regard, they may combine the skills of
both traditional and nuclear forensics through the development
of a common set of definitions and standards, undertake research
and share information and best practices, as appropriate. We
also underscore the importance of international cooperation both
in technology and human resource development to advance nuclear
forensics.  Nuclear Security Culture  11. Recognizing that investment in human capacity building is
fundamental to promoting and sustaining a strong nuclear
security culture, we encourage States to share best practices
and build national capabilities, including through bilateral and
multilateral cooperation. At the national level, we encourage
all stakeholders, including the government, regulatory bodies,
industry, academia, nongovernmental organizations and the media,
to fully commit to enhancing security culture and to maintain
robust communication and coordination of activities. We also
encourage States to promote human resource development through
education and training. In this regard, we welcome the
establishment of Centers of Excellence and other nuclear
security training and support centers since the Washington
Summit, and encourage the establishment of new centers.
Furthermore, we welcome the effort by the IAEA to promote
networking among such centers to share experience and lessons
learned and to optimize available resources. We also note the
holding of the Nuclear Industry Summit and the Nuclear Security
Symposium on the eve of the Seoul Nuclear Security Summit.  Information Security  12. We recognize the importance of preventing non-state actors
from obtaining information, technology or expertise required to
acquire or use nuclear materials for malicious purposes, or to
disrupt  information technology  based control systems at nuclear
facilities. We therefore encourage States to: continue to
develop and strengthen national and facility-level measures for
the effective management of such information, including
information on the procedures and protocols to protect nuclear
materials and facilities; to support relevant capacity building
projects; and to enhance cyber security measures concerning
nuclear facilities, consistent with the IAEA General Conference
Resolution on Nuclear Security(GC(55)/Res/10) and bearing in
mind the International Telecommunication Union Resolution 174.
We also encourage States to: promote a security culture that
emphasizes the need to protect nuclear security related
information; engage with scientific, industrial and academic
communities in the pursuit of common solutions; and support the
IAEA in producing and disseminating improved guidance on
protecting information.  International Cooperation  13. We encourage all States to enhance their physical protection
of and accounting system for nuclear materials, emergency
preparedness and response capabilities and relevant legal and
regulatory framework. In this context, we encourage the
international community to increase international cooperation
and to provide assistance, upon request, to countries in need on
a bilateral, regional, and multilateral level, as appropriate.
In particular, we welcome the intent by the IAEA to continue to
lead efforts to assist States, upon request. We also reaffirm
the need for various public diplomacy and outreach efforts to
enhance public awareness of actions taken and capacities built
to address threats to nuclear security, including the threat of
nuclear terrorism.  We will continue to make voluntary and substantive efforts
toward strengthening nuclear security and implementing political
commitments made in this regard. We welcome the information on
the progress made in the field of nuclear security since the
Washington Summit provided by the participants at this Seoul
Summit. The next Nuclear Security Summit will be held in the
Netherlands in 2014.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at +81-3-3201-7553 or  canstey@bloomberg.net 
