-- World Leaders Vow to Secure Loose Nuclear Material by 2014
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-03-27T09:20:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/world-leaders-pledge-to-secure-loose-nuclear-material-by-2014.html
World leaders pledged to secure all
vulnerable nuclear material by 2014 and to boost security to
keep the ingredients for atomic weapons out of the hands of
terrorists.  U.S. President  Barack Obama , his Russian counterpart  Dmitry Medvedev  and leaders from more than 40 nations set out the goals
in a communiqué at the conclusion of a two-day nuclear security
summit in Seoul.  Countries will accelerate swapping out high-enriched
uranium, the key ingredient in nuclear bombs, for low-enriched
uranium at research facilities vulnerable to sabotage or attack,
according to the non-binding document. The leaders promised to
share more information on smuggling and atomic stockpiles. They
first pledged to clean up loose material in 2010.  “I would not characterize these as small steps,” U.S.
Secretary of Energy Steven Chu said today at a press briefing in
the South Korean capital. “We are working very aggressively.
There’s actually a lot of action happening. The world is
actually becoming a more secure place.”  The six-page communiqué, drafted over the course of a year
by nuclear envoys from participating countries, focuses on steps
that countries can take to secure nuclear material. Early drafts
of the document showed that some nations wanted to recognize
international legal agreements, like the Nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty, as essential to the fight against
terrorism. That language was scotched in the week before the
summit convened.  ‘Non-State Actors’  The communique called on countries to “maintain effective
security of all nuclear material, which includes nuclear
materials used in nuclear weapons, and nuclear facilities under
their control, and to prevent non-state actors from acquiring
such materials and from obtaining information or technology
required to use them for malicious purposes.”  “I would have liked to hear an overall plan for improving
nuclear-material security worldwide in a uniform way,” said
Kenneth Luongo, who with the  Department of Energy  helped secure
atomic material in  Russia  after the Soviet Union disintegrated.
“We need something that’s a lot better across the board.”  Kazakhstan , Russia and the U.S. said in a statement at the
summit they would finish cleaning up nuclear-weapons material
from the former Soviet Union’s Semipalatinsk nuclear-bomb test
site.  Belgium ,  France ,  South Korea  and the U.S. said in a
separate statement that they’re working to create new low-
enriched uranium fuel.  ‘Effective Veto’  “The downside of multilateral negotiation is that you’re
always going to devolve to the lowest common denominator,” said
Miles Pomper, a senior researcher at the Center for Non-
Proliferation Studies, in an interview today in Seoul. “The
countries with the least incentive to make progress have an
effective veto.”  Obama said today at the summit that there are “still too
many bad actors” in the world trying to get their hands on
nuclear material, which could result in a terror attack that
kills large numbers of people. The U.S. leader inaugurated the
first nuclear security summit in Washington DC in 2010.  “These dangerous materials are still vulnerable in too
many places,” he said. “It would not take much, just a handful
or so of these materials, to kill hundreds of thousands of
innocent people and that’s not an exaggeration, that’s the
reality that we face.”  The legacy of the  Soviet Union ’s breakup, inadequate atomic
stockpile controls and the proliferation of nuclear-fuel
technology mean the world has lost precise count of atomic
material, which could be used to make a weapon.  Weapons-Grade Material  There are at least 2 million kilograms (4.4 million pounds)
of stockpiled weapons-grade nuclear material left over from
decommissioned bombs and atomic-fuel plants, according to the
International Panel on Fissile Materials, a nonprofit Princeton,
New Jersey research institute that tracks nuclear material.
That’s enough to make at least 100,000 new nuclear weapons on
top of the 20,000 bombs already in weapon-state stockpiles.  Some nations wanted the summit to “affirm that full and
effective implementation” of nuclear treaties “has a vital
role in promoting international peace and security,” according
to a previous draft of the statement, which was written on Feb.
21 and obtained by Bloomberg News.  North Korea  dropped out of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Treaty in 2003 while  Iran  has been accused of violating its
statutes by seeking an atomic-weapons capability. They didn’t
attend the summit. Other nations like  India ,  Israel  and  Pakistan 
aren’t members of the treaty and did attend.  “The scope that was agreed in this summit is a bit
small,” Chang Sang Ku, president of the Korea Institute of
Nuclear Nonproliferation and Control, who is a Korean delegate
to the  Seoul  Nuclear Security Summit, said in an interview.
“But considering that security issues should be approached in
collaboration with global partners, we can say that we have
achieved meaningful outcomes on technical matters.”  The next summit on nuclear security will be held in the
Netherlands in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Seoul at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  