-- Xstrata Wins Approval for Biggest Australian Coal Mine
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-03-27T06:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/xstrata-wins-court-approval-for-australia-s-biggest-coal-mine.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the world’s largest
exporter of power-station coal, won court approval to build the
A$6 billion ($6.3 billion) Wandoan coal mine in  Australia  that
opponents say threatens the  Great Barrier Reef .  Carmel MacDonald, president of the Land Court of
Queensland, ruled today that opponents hadn’t proved the mine
would cause environmental harm justifying it being blocked.  “It is difficult to see from the evidence that this
project will cause any relevant impact on the environment,”
MacDonald wrote in the 148-page ruling posted on the court’s
 website .  Environmentalists argued in court that mine approvals
should take into consideration the long-term effects of
exporting coal and burning it, as well as the immediate impact
in the project vicinity. A victory by environmental group
Friends of the Earth would have made it more difficult for
companies including  Vale SA (VALES)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , which have
about 30 mines in development in Queensland, to get approvals.  The burning of coal from the Wandoan mine in  power plants 
in China and elsewhere will contribute to  greenhouse gases 
linked by scientists to global warming and damage the Great
Barrier Reef, Friends of the Earth argued in court in August.  Xstrata Evidence  MacDonald cited expert evidence presented by Xstrata that
said if it doesn’t mine the coal, demand for the  fossil fuel 
will be met by mines elsewhere and the impact on the environment
won’t change.  Bradley Smith, a spokesman for the Brisbane chapter of
Friends of the Earth, said the group is considering appealing
the ruling.  Xstrata Coal Queensland Chief Operating Officer Reinhold
Schmidt said the court ruling acknowledges the company has
“followed a thorough and rigorous environmental assessment and
review process.”  Xstrata won initial state approval for the mine, about 350
kilometers (220 miles) northwest of Brisbane, in November 2010
and federal approval in March of last year.  The mine’s initial capacity is intended to be 23 million
metric tons a year, expanding to 63 million tons, Xstrata said
in an e-mailed statement last month.  ‘Economic Benefit’  The project will have a “very significant economic
benefit” for the region, creating 1,700 jobs and providing
governments with about A$3.7 billion of royalty payments over
the 30-year life of the mine, Xstrata’s lawyer David Jackson
said during the trial. Xstrata will also pay about A$500 million
a year in port charges, to ship the coal abroad, he said.  The company said it’s spending A$250 million on reducing
pollution from the project.  Xstrata owns 75 percent of the project, with  Itochu Corp. (8001) 
and  Sumitomo Corp. (8053) , each holding a 12.5 percent stake. The
companies are studying options for the project’s development,
Xstrata said.  The exported coal will create as much as 1.3 billion tons
of  carbon emissions  over 30 years, or 0.15 percent of annual
global emissions, Smith said during the trial.  Those emissions will contribute to  climate change , which
has already harmed the Great Barrier Reef, Smith said.  “Upward of A$1 billion could be lost to local Queensland
communities every year from climate impacts on the Great Barrier
Reef,” he said.  The marine park stretches more than 3,000 kilometers along
the Queensland coast. The coral reef is longer than the Great
Wall of  China  and the only living thing on earth visible from
space, according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  