-- Yields Less Than Italy’s Signal Indonesia Exiting Junk: Economy
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-03-27T03:56:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/yields-less-than-italy-s-signal-indonesia-exiting-junk-economy.html
Indonesia  and the Philippines, able
to raise funds at a lower cost than Italy, may be poised to get
the highest credit ratings since the 1997 Asian financial crisis
as the nations step up efforts to boost investment.  Officials from  Standard & Poor’s , the only company to grade
Indonesia’s debt as junk, are visiting the largest economy in
Southeast Asia this week after raising the nation’s bonds to BB+
a year ago, according to the  Finance Ministry . Philippine
Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said March 23 that he’s
confident about getting a rating upgrade after meeting with S&P
last week.  “Asian economies, including the Philippines and Indonesia,
have finally shaken the effects of the Asian financial crisis,”
said  Frederic Neumann , co-head of Asian economic research at
HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong Kong. “This period thus marks the
return to high rates of growth.”  Emerging markets, with budget deficits at 1.7 percent of
gross domestic product in Indonesia and 3.8 percent in the
Philippines in 2009 compared with the Euro area’s 6.4 percent,
are winning rating boosts even as developed markets from  Europe 
to the U.S. get downgrades. Borrowing costs for the two
Southeast Asian nations have fallen 0.6 of a percentage point
this year as plans to boost investment in roads and rail systems
support growth prospects amid faltering global demand.  Yields Narrow  The  extra yield  investors demand to own Indonesia’s dollar
bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  has narrowed 61 basis points
this year, or 0.61 percentage point, to 1.89 percentage points
as of March 26, while that for the  Philippines (JPSSEMPH)  has fallen by 62
points to 1.76 percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI+ Indexes. They compare with the  additional yield  of
3.16 percentage points to buy emerging-market dollar-denominated
debt instead of U.S. securities.  Indonesia’s dollar bonds due May 2021 are trading at 3.79
percent while Philippine dollar debt due January 2021 is trading
at 3.44 percent, compared with 6.25 percent for  Italy ’s dollar
notes due September 2023 and 4.12 percent for Russia’s dollar
notes due April 2020, according to prices from  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc.  and compiled by Bloomberg. S&P rates Russia
two steps above Indonesia and three levels higher than the
Philippines.  Ratings upgrades could underscore confidence in the
Southeast Asian economies’ resilience as a slowdown in  China ’s
growth adds to the threat to Asian expansion, which has already
been crimped by Europe’s debt crisis.  Chinese Profits  Chinese industrial companies had their first January-
February  profit  decline since 2009 as slowing exports and a
government campaign to cool property prices damped earnings, a
report showed today. Net income dropped 5.2 percent from a year
earlier to 606 billion yuan ($96 billion), the National Bureau
of Statistics said on its website.  In contrast, a report showed South Korean  consumer
confidence  rose to the highest level in four months, buoyed by
signs of improvement in the  U.S. economy  and progress in
containing Europe’s crisis. The sentiment index rose to 101 in
March from February’s 100, the Bank of Korea said.  The global economic outlook is improving, though “severe
downside risks remain,” International Monetary Fund Deputy
Managing Director Naoyuki Shinohara said today in Bangkok,
adding that emerging economies need to “stay vigilant for the
spillover from advanced economies.”  Asian economies will experience only a modest slowdown in
growth as domestic demand remains resilient, supported by strong
employment and high capacity utilization, he said. The Asian
economy as a whole will expand by 5.9 percent this year, with
growth accelerating to 6.4 percent in 2013, while the economy of
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations will grow by 5
percent this year and 5.5 percent in 2013, he said.  French Confidence  Reports in Europe may show consumer confidence rose in
March in  Finland  while holding steady in  France , according to
Bloomberg surveys. The Netherlands will report final GDP data
for the fourth quarter after a preliminary estimate showed the
economy contracted 0.7 percent from the previous three months.
Turkey and Hungary may keep  interest rates  unchanged, Bloomberg
surveys showed.  In the U.S., the Conference Board’s release today may show
its consumer confidence index was little changed at 70.1 this
month after reaching a one-year high of 70.8 in February, a
survey median showed.  Presidents Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono in Indonesia and
Benigno Aquino in the  Philippines  have both won upgrades from
 Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service in the past year as
they pledged to contain their budget deficits, fight corruption
and woo investment to spur economic growth. The two companies
have brought Indonesia to investment grade, while the
Philippines remains one step behind at Fitch and two steps below
at Moody’s.  Credit Default Swaps  Five-year credit-default swap contracts on Philippine debt
traded at 141 basis points on March 26 and 161 for Indonesia,
according to data provider CMA, which compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. The contracts insure
debt against non-payment, and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. That compares with 370 basis points for Italy
and 422 points for  Spain .  “I’m hopeful that S&P will raise Indonesia’s rating within
this year, which will bring in foreign investors again,” Ezra Nazula, Jakarta-based head of fixed income who helps manage 24
trillion rupiah ($2.6 billion) at PT Manulife Asset Management,
said in a March 20 interview. “It will be a plus point for
Indonesia if the government can show that they are willing to
increase the fuel prices and reduce the subsidies’ burden on the
budget.”  Raising Prices  Indonesia’s plan to raise diesel and petrol prices to 6,000
rupiah per liter from 4,500 rupiah is subject to approval by
lawmakers. The country must raise fuel prices to curb a subsidy
bill that threatens to sap funds from pivotal health, education
and road and port building programs, National Economic Committee
Vice Chairman M. Chatib Basri said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in  Hong Kong  on March 23.  Ratings changes aren’t necessarily accompanied by
corresponding moves in bond prices. Instead of falling in value
after S&P stripped the U.S. of the top AAA sovereign rating,
Treasuries rallied and the government’s borrowing costs fell to
record lows. While stocks fell, wiping $2.5 trillion from the
market value of global equities on the first trading day after
S&P on Aug. 5 cut the U.S. by one level to AA+, the gain in
benchmark 10-year government notes sent yields down almost a
quarter percentage point, to 2.32 percent.  Asian Crisis  Still, a rating upgrade would endorse Indonesia’s efforts
to move its economy out of the shadows of the 1997-98 Asian
financial crisis, when it needed a bailout from the IMF.  The nation’s parliament approved a land-acquisition bill in
December that will allow Yudhoyono’s administration to
accelerate road, port and airport projects. The government is
also setting up a new financial market regulator that is due to
start operating in January 2013, supervising capital markets,
insurers, pension funds and other non-bank institutions.  In the Philippines, Aquino is seeking $16 billion of
investments in projects including roads in the capital and
airports in the provinces to upgrade the nation’s
infrastructure.  Indonesia’s $707 billion economy has expanded more than 6
percent for five straight quarters, weathering a decline in
global demand that has hurt growth across  Asia . The Philippine
economy grew 3.7 percent last quarter from a year earlier.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  