-- Zoomlion Ends Slump After Unit-Sale Reassurance: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-03-27T03:44:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-27/zoomlion-ends-slump-after-unit-sale-reassurance-hong-kong-mover.html
Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science &
Technology Co. (1157)  headed for the first gain in seven trading days
after reassuring investors about the planned sale of a
sanitation-equipment unit that’s its fastest-growing business.  The company rose as much as 6.2 percent in Hong Kong, the
biggest intraday jump since March 9. It had declined 12 percent
through yesterday after saying March 15 it would sell 80 percent
of the unit, which makes street-sweepers and garbage trucks,
possibly to a group backed by executives including its chairman.  A regulator has told Zoomlion that there should be at least
five independent bidders in the auction for the unit, said Liu Rong, an analyst at  China  Merchants Securities, citing a
Zoomlion conference call yesterday. The Changsha, Hunan
province-based company wants to sell the business as there is
little overlap with its main construction-equipment divisions
and because the unit is set to add capital-intensive sanitation
services, it said in an e-mailed reply to Bloomberg News
questions.  “Greater details on the bidding process has helped to ease
market concerns about the transaction,” Liu said. “The company
also explained more clearly their vision for the sanitation
unit.”  Zoomlion (1157) , China’s biggest cranemaker, expects to raise at
least 3.2 billion yuan ($507 million) from the sanitation-unit
stake sale. The  company  has barred competitors from bidding for
unit and said that buyers must pay in cash.  The stock was up 5.8 percent at HK$10.58 as of 11:04 a.m.
It had fallen for six days starting on March 19.  The drop reflected “investors’ concern about the
executives’ interest in the transaction,” said Stanley Yan, a
Shanghai-based analyst at  Masterlink Securities Corp. (2856)  It created
“an overhang on the company’s business outlook.”  Bond Offering  Zoomlion is also working on plans for a debt offering. The
company is talking to investors about a five-year U.S. dollar
bond, which may yield about 7 percent, a person familiar with
the matter said today. They asked not to be identified because
the details are private.  The company expects to price the sale earlier next month,
it said in reply to questions today. It’s too early to comment
further, it said. The cranemaker hasn’t said how much it plans
to raise. Macquarie Group Ltd. analysts Saiyi He and Summer Xia
said earlier this month that it may be as much as $1.5 billion.  Sanitation Investments  The sanitation unit requires as much as 1.5 billion yuan
for capital investments, as much as the companywide total for
last year, Ge Wenjie, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., said
in a note, citing the Zoomlion call. The unit will expand in
areas such as running incinerators and sewage plants, Zoomlion
said.  “We can’t support the rapid development of both the
construction-machinery and sanitation-equipment businesses at
the same time,” it said. “The company has no further  capital 
and other resources to support this unit.”  Zoomlion (1157)  had 16 billion yuan of cash and cash equivalents
at the end of last year, down from 18.76 billion yuan a year
earlier.  The sanitation unit’s  sales  rose 59 percent last year to 3
billion yuan. That compares with a 51 percent rise to 21.2
billion yuan for the construction-equipment business and a 41
percent rise to 15.6 billion yuan for crane-making operations.  Zoomlion has “dispelled investors’ concerns associated
with the disposal to a certain degree,” said Nomura’s Ge, who
rates the company neutral. The sanitation business “is largely
different from that of construction machinery.”  The company expects to sell the sanitation unit for at
least 11 times 2011 earnings, it said. Its own  Hong Kong  shares
trade at about 8 times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chairman-Backed Bid  Zoomlion Chairman Zhan Chunxin and other executives will
join with Hony Capital Ltd. to bid for the sanitation-unit
stake, according to Zoomlion. The managers would own less than
20 percent following a successful bid, Zoomlion said yesterday.  A successful bid by the executives-backed group would
benefit Zoomlion by smoothing the transition, the company said
yesterday. The  management  involvement may also draw investment
that will help the unit expand, it said. The business already
makes about 60 percent of China’s road sweepers, limiting its
potential for growth without diversification, Zoomlion said.  The crane-maker expects companywide sales growth to slow to
35 percent this year from 44 percent in 2011 because of cooling
domestic demand for cranes and concrete pumps. The company is
also planning to expand overseas, including building plants in
the U.S. and  Japan , to help spur sales.  Fitch Ratings Ltd. gave  Zoomlion (1157)  a BBB- rating, its lowest
investment grade, following the announcement on the planned bond
offering.  Standard & Poor’s  separately rated the crane-maker
BB+, its highest non-investment grade. The two ratings companies
both gave the crane-maker stable outlooks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  