-- ‘Downton’ Butler Wages War With Shiny Forks; Sleazy Cheadle: TV
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-01-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/-downton-butler-wages-war-with-shiny-forks-sleazy-cheadle-tv.html
At Downton Abbey, polishing silverware
is nothing short of a battle cry.  “Keeping up standards is the only way to show the Germans
that they will not beat us in the end,” head butler Carson (Jim
Carter) says in Season 2 of “ Downton Abbey ,” a popular British
series that’s been transported to PBS.  The first season all but perfected the upstairs-downstairs
genre of period drama, that British conflagration of erudition,
class division, sumptuous acting and impeccably-dressed
historical soap opera. Now, World War I (and its aftermath) keeps
the seven new episodes pulsing with home-front melodrama and
high-stakes romance.  “Downton,” created by Oscar-winning screenwriter Julian Fellowes (“Gosford Park”), is set on a sprawling Yorkshire
estate owned by the well-born Grantham family but run by a small
army of butlers, footmen, cooks and maids.  The sophomore season begins in 1916 while Matthew (Dan
Stevens), a handsome middle-class cousin, is off fighting for
king and country at the Battle of the Somme. (He stands to
inherit the whole Grantham shebang because there are no direct
male heirs.)  Given a few days R&R, Matthew heads home to Downton, where
men are in short supply during wartime. Even Thomas (Rob James-
Collier), the scheming footman, is on the front lines, no less
duplicitous in the trenches than he was under the sheets.  Back home, the women are either resisting social change or
embracing it.  Scandalous Affair  Free-spirited Lady Sybil (Jessica Brown-Findlay) opts for
volunteerism and a hunky Irish chauffer (Allen Leech). Her plain,
bitter sister Edith (Laura Carmichael) is learning to drive
(shocking!). And Mary (Michelle Dockery), whose longing for
Matthew is star-crossed, is mired in a loveless engagement to a
social-climbing newspaper tycoon.  Even the working stiffs, ever protective of their hidebound
servant traditions, are dusting their way into a new age.  Bates,
the married valet (Brendan Coyle), and housemaid Anna (Joanne
Froggatt) go public with an affair that could bring scandal to
the household.  Resistance is mostly left to Downton’s aging Violet (a
magnificent  Maggie Smith ). As room at the estate is converted
into a makeshift hospital and convalescent center for wounded
vets, the appalled Dowager Countess sniffs, “Amputation in the
dining room? Resuscitation in the pantry?”  Smith packs an entire epoch into a line like that, her
withering tone beautifully capturing the high dudgeon (and high
camp) that makes “Downton Abbey” so delightful.  “Downton Abbey” airs Jan. 8 at 9 p.m.  New York  time. Rating:
***1/2  ‘House of Lies’  Don Cheadle’s likability is the only saving grace of “ House
of Lies ,” Showtime’s crude new comedy/drama about high-powered
management consultants.  Based loosely on Martin Kihn’s best-seller “House of Lies:
How Management Consultants Steal Your Watch and Then Tell You the
Time,” the half-hour series sketches its corporate fixers with
the quick, brash and vulgar strokes of  HBO ’s “Entourage.”  Cheadle’s Marty Kaan (pronounced “con”) is the consultant
who’ll try anything for a client, including, on occasion,
honesty.  “America [bleeping] hates you,” he tells the head of a New
York City bank.  Creator/writer Matthew Carnahan softens Marty by giving him
both a conscience and a young son who auditions for the Olivia Newton-John role in a school production of “Grease.”  But the repetitive plots -- will Marty satisfy the client?
How about the client’s wife? -- aren’t compelling, and swimming
with these sharks offers little more than Cheadle’s toothsome
grin.  “House of Lies” airs Jan. 8 at 10 p.m. New York time.
Rating: **  “Absolutely Fabulous”  “There’s a new disease,” says Edina Monsoon, the uber-
fashionista of “ Absolutely Fabulous ” who worshipped Lacroix and
made “sweetie darling” the 1990s’ endearment of choice. “It’s
called Kardashians.”  Twenty years after its BBC debut, “Ab Fab” is back for a
trio of anniversary specials.  Times might have changed, but Patsy ( Joanna Lumley ), Eddy
(Jennifer Saunders) and her uptight daughter Saffron (Julia Sawalha) haven’t. Even the best sitcoms calcify, their characters
repeating old jokes that play to diehards.  Still, the performances are as sharp as ever, and the first
half-hour episode (written by Saunders) does a clever job of
reuniting the bickering women.  “Absolutely Fabulous” airs Jan. 8 on BBC America and Logo at
10 p.m. New York time. Rating: **1/2  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 