-- Africa Drilling May Boost Supply-Ship Rates
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-01-05T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/africa-drilling-may-boost-supply-ship-rates.html
Bourbon SA (GBB) , owner of the biggest
fleet of supply and crew ships for the oil industry, expects
improved demand and higher rates for vessels this year and next
as explorers develop offshore projects in Asia and West Africa.  “If oil prices remain high enough for investment, we will
see growth in 2012 and 2013,” Chief Executive Officer Christian Lefevre, 54, said in an interview in Paris. “We could see
vessel utilization rates in 2013 at levels last seen in 2007.”  Lefevre, a graduate of the French Merchant Marine National
School who took the CEO position a year ago, plans to return the
Paris-based company to profit this year while expanding the
fleet by about a third by 2015. Bourbon bolstered its building
program last year, even amid overcapacity in the global market
and delays by  oil companies  in starting new offshore projects,
on anticipation explorers would choose more modern vessels.  The company declined 33 percent in Paris trading last year
on concern the European debt crisis would hurt demand and after
a first-half loss because of weakness in the dollar. The shares
have advanced for the past  three months (GBB)  as an improving outlook
for the  U.S. economy  and the threat of conflict in the  Middle
East  helped push oil prices back above $100 a barrel.  Bourbon’s average vessel utilization rate was 83.8 percent
in the first nine months, compared with 79.5 percent the prior
year and 89 percent for the supply fleet in 2009. Deepwater
vessel utilization rates will “easily rise by 5 percent” and
rates also improve in shallow waters, according to Lefevre.  ‘Very Optimistic’  The company, with about a quarter of West Africa’s market,
had suffered from slumping  oil prices  and delays in development
of offshore projects, reversing a boom as crude peaked in 2008.  “The years 2009 and 2010 were hard; there has been
improvement in 2011, which we would have liked to have been
faster, but we are very optimistic for the coming year,” said
Lefevre, who had experience in West Africa working as an officer
at Compagnie Chambon, a Marseille port-towing company bought by
Bourbon in 1992. The company serviced offshore platforms in West
Africa operated by Elf-Aquitaine SA, later bought by Total SA.  “We used to go up the Zaire River at night in supply boats
to get drilling water for the oil platforms,” Lefevre said.  In January 2011, he took over as Bourbon CEO from Chairman
Jacques de Chateauvieux, who had headed the company since 1977.  Wind Turbines   Bourbon, founded in 1948 by sugar plantation families on
the French island of Reunion, sold assets including sugar mills,
shopping malls and bulk carriers under de Chateauvieux to focus
on oil-services shipping. Its clients include Exxon Mobil Corp.,
Chevron Corp., BP Plc and Total SA and oil-services companies
such as CGG Veritas, Saipem SpA and Technip SA. Vessels in the
subsea division, whose average daily rental rates reached
$33,822 in the third quarter, are used to test  oil wells .  Bourbon has moved into offshore wind turbine installations,
winning contracts to help lay underwater cables off  England ,
 Germany  and  Portugal . The company also plans to bid for orders
for energy projects offshore Indonesia and  Malaysia  as part of
its  Asia  expansion and possible new developments off the coasts
of Angola and  Ghana , Lefevre said in the interview.  In contrast, Bourbon is moving cautiously in the expanding
Brazilian market, where state-controlled Petroleo Brasileiro SA
is tapping the largest discoveries in the country’s history in
the so-called pre-salt region in deep waters off the coast.  “We are very cautious on  Brazil  because of costs,
regulatory constraints and difficulties getting crews,” Lefevre
said. “We aren’t prepared to fight on price to win contracts.”  Local Brazil  Brazil requires oil companies to use locally produced goods
and services as the country seeks to more than double oil output
by 2020, spurring companies such as Technip SA and Vallourec SA
to invest in domestic equipment-making installations. Bourbon’s
ships are mostly developed in  China  by Sinopacific Shipbuilding
Group in which de Chateauvieux is an investor. Brazilian vessels
are 50 percent costlier and lower quality, according to Lefevre.  Under a $2 billion expansion plan, Bourbon plans to own 600
ships by 2015, up from 436. It’s the third expansion since 2006,
when the company had about 260 vessels and will lead to average
annual sales growth of 17 percent in the offshore division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  