-- Hague Urges More Freedom in Myanmar in Highest-Level U.K. Visit Since 1955
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-01-05T14:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/hague-urges-freer-myanmar-in-highest-level-u-k-visit-since-1955.html
William Hague  urged Myanmar’s
government to build on steps toward greater freedom and
democracy during the first visit by a British foreign secretary
since 1955, holding out the prospect that European Union
sanctions may be lifted in return.  The release of some political prisoners, increased freedom
for the media and changes to the law to allow Aung San Suu Kyi’s
National League for Democracy to take part in elections in April
are positive steps that could lead to improved relations, Hague
said in an e-mailed statement after meeting with President Thein Sein, Foreign Minister Wanna Maung Lwin and Lower House Speaker
Shwe Mann.  “I emphasised the importance the British government
attaches to the reforms that the Burmese government has
undertaken in the last six months, and my sincere hope that
there will be further progress in the weeks and months ahead,”
Hague said. “I made clear that the British government stands
ready to respond positively to evidence of further progress
towards that lasting improvement in human rights and political
freedom that the people of  Burma  seek.”  Hague is the highest ranking U.K. official in half a
century to visit Myanmar, run since 1962 by a repressive
military regime that still exerts control through a new civilian
government.  Clinton Visit  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  visited the
resource-rich southeast Asian country in November and said Dec.
2 she was “cautiously hopeful” about President Thein Sein’s
efforts to ease political repression and end the nation’s
international isolation. U.S. and EU sanctions in place for more
than two decades have left Myanmar dependent on neighbors  China ,
 India  and  Thailand , which have poured more than $25 billion into
ports,  power plants , and oil and gas pipelines.  Hague, who held talks with senior government ministers
before meeting with Suu Kyi and other opposition leaders during
the two-day visit, said he wants to see the release of more
political prisoners, free and fair elections and steps toward
stopping fighting in ethnic regions.  The U.K., the biggest aid donor to Myanmar with 185 million
pounds ($289 million) passed to the country through non-
governmental organisations over three years, will meet with its
EU partners to set benchmarks for the lifting of sanctions after
Hague’s visit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  