-- Makeup of Leading Economic Indicators Index in U.S. to Change
-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s
-- 2012-01-05T15:57:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/makeup-of-leading-economic-indicators-index-in-u-s-to-change.html
For the first time since 1996, the
components of the U.S. leading economic indicator index will
change, according to the New York-based Conference Board.  Gone will be the inflation-adjusted  money supply , the
Institute for Supply Management’s supplier deliveries gauge, the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s measure of consumer
expectations and the Commerce Department’s orders for non-
defense capital goods, the private research group said in a
statement.  Replacing the money supply will be the Conference Board’s
own Leading Credit Index, which aggregates measures of the yield
curve, interest-rate swaps and the  Federal Reserve ’s senior loan
officer survey. The ISM’s supplier deliveries gauge will give
way to the group’s index of new orders.  Instead of using one measure of  consumer confidence , the
Conference Board will include an equally weighted average of the
Michigan sentiment expectations reading and its own measure.
Finally, the capital goods component will be replaced by the one
that excludes commercial aircraft.  The Conference Board called it “the first major overhaul”
of the LEI since 1996, when the group took over responsibility
for the business cycle indicators program from the  Bureau of
Economic Analysis  at the Commerce Department. The changes
respond to structural changes in the  U.S. economy  and are aimed
at making the LEI a better predictor of peaks and troughs in the
business cycle, the Conference Board said.  The new index will start with the December number coming
out on Jan. 26, the group said, and readings will be revised
retroactively to 1990.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Torres in Washington at 
 Ctorrres2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  