-- Alcoa Earnings Estimates Plunge After Aluminum Drop: Commodities
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-01-05T22:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/alcoa-estimates-plunge-most-since-2008-after-aluminum-decline-commodities.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA)  earnings estimates have
plunged the most in three years as analysts’ expectations mount
that the biggest U.S. aluminum producer may even record a
fourth-quarter loss.  Net income will tumble 96 percent to 1 cent a share from 21
cents a year earlier, according to the average of 18 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 88 percent less than the
average projection from a month ago. Nine of the 12  estimates (AA) 
compiled within the last 28 days are for New York-based Alcoa to
post a loss in the fourth quarter.  The average price of aluminum was 11 percent lower in the
quarter from a year earlier after global growth decelerated amid
a sovereign-debt crisis in Europe and government action to
control inflation in China. Supply is exceeding demand and
inventories have soared, leaving some smelters unprofitable at
current metal prices. Alcoa said today it would close 12 percent
of its smelting capacity amid falling prices.  “You have 40 to 50 percent of global capacity under water
at these levels,” Kuni Chen, an analyst with CRT Capital Group
LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , who has a “buy” rating on Alcoa,
said in an interview.  Alcoa fell 1 percent to $9.36 at the close in New York. The
stock slumped 44 percent last year, the second-biggest decline
on the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  after Bank of America
Corp.’s 58 percent drop. Alcoa, which is typically the first
company in index to report earnings, is scheduled to publish its
results after the close of trading on Jan. 9.  Commodities Drop  Mike Belwood, an Alcoa spokesman, declined to comment on
earnings ahead of the announcement.  Net income of 1 cent a share would represent New York-based
Alcoa’s worst quarter since the fourth quarter of 2009, when it
posted a 22-cent loss.  The decline in the average of estimates for the fourth
quarter of 2011 is the steepest since those made for the fourth
quarter of 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Back
then, the consensus view deteriorated to a 6-cent loss from a 7-
cent profit 30 days earlier, after commodity prices tumbled amid
a recession in the U.S. and  Europe .  Aluminum for delivery in three months on the  London  Metal
Exchange, the benchmark price on the world’s largest metals
bourse, averaged $2,115 a metric ton in the fourth quarter. The
metal traded at $1,956 on Dec. 14, a 17-month low and 30 percent
less than the 2011 high of $2,803 on May 3. Aluminum fell 1.4
percent to $2,036 in London today.  ‘Seen the Bottom’  Prices this year aren’t likely to retrace the decline seen
in the second half of 2011, according to the average of 11
analysts’ price estimates. Aluminum will average $2,354 a ton in
2012, the data show.  “We’ve seen the bottom but it’s unclear exactly when it
starts to go up meaningfully,” said Lloyd O’Carroll, an analyst
at Davenport & Co., in Richmond,  Virginia , who rates Alcoa a
“buy.”  The company said today it will permanently close its
smelter at Alcoa,  Tennessee , and two of six idled potlines at
its Rockdale, Texas, plant, eliminating 291,000 metric tons of
annual production capacity. An additional 240,000 tons of
curtailments will be announced “in the near future.”  Alcoa said it will take a charge of $155 million to $165
million, or 15 to 16 cents a share, in the fourth quarter.  Production Surplus  Global aluminum output exceeded demand by 953,516 tons in
the first three quarters of 2011, according to  data (.ALSURP)  compiled by
Bloomberg Industries. Inventories of the metal stored in
warehouses monitored by major commodity exchanges rose 9.7
percent last year and stood at 5.19 million tons yesterday, the
data show.  “Certainly by the middle of 2012 you’d see more supply
come out” if prices stay at current levels, CRT’s Chen said.  “You have started to see production slowing in  China  in
the last couple months,” he said. “That’s encouraging for the
year ahead.”  Energy costs at Chinese smelters are about $1,000 for each
ton of aluminum produced, the highest in the world, Bloomberg
Industries said in September. The cost of power represents about
30 percent of smelting costs, Bloomberg Industries analysts said
in November.  The average price of crude oil futures rose 10 percent in
the quarter from a year earlier. Other production costs also
increased:  Caustic soda (ICSDELMD) , which is used to produce alumina from
bauxite, jumped 11 percent on Nov. 25 from a year earlier,
according to the most recent data from ICIS-LOR.  Integrated Producer  Alcoa is a fully integrated producer of aluminum, which is
used in beverage cans, aircraft and window frames. It mines
bauxite, an ore that contains aluminum, and refines it into
alumina, the raw material used by aluminum smelters. As well as
selling primary aluminum to industrial users, Alcoa makes
products from the metal, such as can sheet and components for
cars and planes.  The company isn’t alone in feeling the pressure from lower
prices and higher costs. Russia’s United Co. Rusal, the world’s
biggest aluminum company, will post a 45 percent decline in
fourth-quarter earnings, according to estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld  in October forecast
aluminum demand will double by 2020. The company is constructing
a $10.8 billion mining, refining and rolling complex in  Saudi
Arabia  with the Saudi Arabian Mining Co. to take advantage of
cheaper electricity supplies derived from natural gas. The first
commercial production is scheduled for next year.  “I think management is doing what they can to continue to
move lower on the cost curve but obviously that takes longer,”
Chen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  