-- Taliban Guerrillas Execute 15 Captured Pakistani Guards in Revenge Killing
-- B y   A n w a r   S h a k i r   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-01-05T12:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/taliban-guerrillas-execute-15-captured-pakistani-guards-in-revenge-killing.html
Taliban guerrillas executed 15
kidnapped members of a  Pakistan  paramilitary force that guards
the country’s northwestern border region in a major blow to
government efforts to pursue peace talks with the militants.  The Frontier Constabulary troops were killed to avenge a
recent army operation that left several militants dead,
including a prominent commander, Ehsanullah Ehsan, a spokesman
for the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan, said by phone from an
undisclosed location. The men were taken captive during a Dec.
22 attack on a security base, Ehsan said.  Qasim Khan, a senior official at the force’s headquarters
in the city of Peshawar, confirmed the killings by telephone. A
spokesman for Pakistan’s tribal region, Kifayatullah Durrani,
said the men’s bodies had been found in Shawa, a town in North
Waziristan, a rugged mountainous district which borders
 Afghanistan  and is the main stronghold of militants fighting
Pakistan’s army.  The deaths will hinder efforts by Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani ’s government to negotiate with militants behind
attacks that the New Delhi-based  South Asia Terrorism  portal
says have killed almost 9,000 civilians and security personnel
since 2009. Gilani in October convened a conference of political
leaders that advocated a conciliatory approach to the guerrillas
amid public pressure to end the war.  U.S. Alliance  “These killings show that hardliners within the Taliban
plan to continue their fight,” said  Rashid Khan , a professor of
international relations at the University of Sargodha in central
Pakistan. “This is a setback to any peace efforts which were
going on between Taliban and the government. The army will find
it hard to justify negotiations when its soldiers are getting
killed.”  The country’s main opposition party, the Pakistan Muslim
League faction led by the former prime minister  Nawaz Sharif ,
and  Imran Khan , a former cricketer and an emerging force in
Pakistani politics, have called for talks with the Taliban and
an end to the government’s alliance with the U.S.  Leaders of Taliban factions in Pakistan agreed at a recent
meeting to end attacks that risk killing civilians and stop
kidnapping for ransom while increasing their strikes against the
country’s security forces, The News daily reported Jan. 3. They
would also continue to support cross-border raids on NATO forces
fighting in Afghanistan, the report said.  Since 2004, when Pakistan began military offensives against
the  Taliban movement  then beginning to take control of the
border zone with Afghanistan, several peace deals have been
negotiated, often collapsing within months.  Court Probe  Gilani and President Asif Ali Zardari have been weakened by
a confrontation with the army that has ruled Pakistan for half
its 64 years since independence. A commission formed by
Pakistan’s Supreme Court is investigating claims that Zardari
sought U.S. assistance to help prevent an army coup as the
military stood humiliated by the American strike that killed
 Osama bin Laden  in a garrison town north of Islamabad in May.
That account has renewed tensions between civilian leaders and
army chiefs, who have backed the court probe.  Khan, who captained Pakistan’s 1992 world champion cricket
team, has shed years of political irrelevance to draw crowds in
excess of 100,000 people to rallies in Lahore and Karachi, his
popularity spurred by a stance that Pakistan should pull out of
its security pact with the U.S.  Pakistan cut its growth forecast for an economy battered by
floods and militant violence to 3.6 percent from 4.2 percent for
the year through June 2012. Policy makers plan to boost growth
from 2.4 percent in the year ended June 30, one of Pakistan’s
weakest expansions in a decade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anwar Shakir in  Peshawar , Pakistan at 
 ashakir1@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  