-- Malta Lures Hedge Funds With 300 Days of Sunshine
-- B y   J e r e m y   K a h n
-- 2012-01-10T15:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/malta-lures-connecticut-hedge-funds-with-300-days-of-sun-aided-by-eu-rules.html

(Corrects 27th paragraph to show that required checks are annual
in story originally published on Jan. 5.)  Erik Nelson was working in  Stamford ,
Connecticut, as a research analyst at FMG USA LLC, the U.S. arm
of FMG, a fund of funds specializing in emerging and frontier
markets, when his bosses called him into a meeting in September
2009.  They had recently moved FMG’s corporate headquarters to
Malta from  Bermuda  and now they wanted Nelson, 27 at the time,
to head up the new office. “I’ll have to think about it,”
Nelson replied. Then he went home and tried to find Malta on a
map.  Three months later, the young American touched down on the
rocky, sun-drenched island in the middle of the  Mediterranean
Sea , joining a wave of hedge-fund executives washing up on
 Malta ’s shores, lured by low taxes, cheap labor and a coveted
address inside the European Union, Bloomberg Markets magazine
reports in its February issue.  As of early November, the number of funds located in Malta
had grown to more than 500 with 8 billion euros ($10.7 billion)
under management from 165 funds with less than 5 billion euros
under management in 2006, according to the Malta Financial
Services Authority, or MFSA.  While that’s not much compared with Luxembourg, which has
more than 143 billion euros under management across more than
700 hedge funds and funds of hedge funds, the number of funds in
Malta and the amount of their assets are expanding.  Since the end of 2010, the number of funds increased almost
30 percent and their total assets were up nearly 15 percent as
of early December.  Demanding Transparency  Malta has also begun to win business from more-established
fund jurisdictions. The island has benefited from a growing
demand by investors for transparency as well as from fears among
hedge funds that the EU was becoming increasingly hostile to
firms based outside of it.  In 2010, nine companies from the British Virgin Islands,
seven from the  Cayman Islands  and six from Luxembourg switched
their legal domicile to Malta, according to the MFSA.  In addition, at least a dozen large U.K. hedge funds and
funds of hedge funds have shifted part of their operations,
including accounting and  investor relations , to Malta.  These include Clive Capital LLP, which has about $4 billion
under management, Comac Capital LLP, which has $5.2 billion
under management, the $1.2 billion commodities and energy hedge
fund BlueGold Capital Management LLP and the $2.8 billion fund-
of-funds company Liongate Capital Management LLP.  Many of these larger hedge funds, while serviced from
Malta, remain legally domiciled elsewhere, so those assets
aren’t counted in Malta’s official tally.  Strategic Location  If they were, the total amount of money managed by Malta-
based companies would be as high as 80 billion euros, estimates
James Farrugia, director of investment services at the Maltese
law firm Ganado & Associates.  The growth of Malta’s fund industry has been so rapid that
Prime Minister Lawrence Gonzi says he worries whether Malta,
with a population of just 414,000, has enough accountants and
financial analysts to keep up with demand.  Invasions, friendly or otherwise, are nothing new to the
Maltese. Phoenician sailors, Roman centurions, Arab traders,
pirates and Norman mercenaries were all drawn to the island’s
natural harbors and strategic location between  Europe  and North
Africa.  The Knights of St. John, a Catholic military order
popularly known as the  Knights of Malta , ruled the island for
more than 250 years beginning in the early 16th century.  Baroque Palazzos  The legacy of their trading wealth can be glimpsed in the
baroque palazzos and lavishly decorated churches of Valletta,
Malta’s compact, walled capital city.  Napoleon conquered Malta en route to  Egypt  in 1798. Two
years later, the British fleet seized it from the French and
remained until the islanders were granted independence in 1964.  The British left three bequests that have been critical to
Malta’s rise as a financial hub. One is the English language,
which gives the island an advantage over some other popular fund
locations. The vast majority of Maltese speak it fluently, along
with the island’s second official language, Maltese, which is
similar to Arabic yet written in Latin script.  Another legacy is English commercial law, which Andre
Zerafa, a lawyer at Ganado & Associates, says was grafted onto
the island’s civil law system. “The Maltese Companies Act is
roughly based on English company law principles from the U.K.
Companies Act,” Zerafa says.  Finally, there’s Malta’s “Anglo-Saxon” work ethic, as
fund managers describe it.  ‘Beer Drinkers’  “They definitely work more like beer drinkers than wine
drinkers,” says Andrew Frankish, the director of client
relations for  IDS Group , a South African fund services company
that set up offices in Malta in 2010.  A 125-square-mile (324-square-kilometer) island with scarce
natural resources, Malta has had to think creatively to attract
investment. In 1988, Malta introduced business-friendly low
taxes.  Today, while companies pay a nominal income tax rate of 35
percent, refunds can reduce that to 5 percent or less for most
foreign-owned corporations. Most  capital gains  and dividends
aren’t taxed.  Business friendly doesn’t mean offshore in the sense of
being lightly regulated.  “We want to be a financial center of the highest
reputation possible,” Gonzi says during an interview, sitting
beneath the 20-foot-high (6-meter-high) ceilings of the Auberge
de Castille, a palazzo that once belonged to the Knights of St.
John and now serves as his office.  Preferring Transparency  In the late 1980s, before it joined the EU, Malta tried
positioning itself as an offshore haven. In addition to low
taxes, it offered foreign companies total confidentiality and a
laissez-faire regulatory regime.  In the mid-1990s, the country reversed course, bringing its
regulations in line with the EU ahead of becoming a member state
in 2004. Among other requirements, Malta demands audited annual
financial statements and background checks for fund owners and
directors.  Since the early days of the financial crisis, with
investors preferring transparency to secrecy, Malta’s regulatory
scrutiny and accountability have become selling points.  At the time, some offshore hedge funds instituted rules
prohibiting investors -- from individuals to pension funds --
from withdrawing their money. Because the hedge funds were based
in offshore jurisdictions, the aggrieved investors had little
recourse as they endured losses in their accounts.  Range of Funds  “At the beginning of 2008, we started to see investor
sentiment changing,” FMG’s Nelson says. “Regulation, liquidity
and transparency were becoming real factors in the decisions
that investors were making.”  Nelson says that change prompted FMG -- which has about
$200 million under management across a range of funds that
invest in markets from  Brazil  to  Iraq , to Mongolia -- to shift
its headquarters to Malta.  FMG has also shifted Chief Investment Officer Andrew
Jameson, an Englishman who was living in Geneva, to Malta,
becoming one of the first foreign fund companies to relocate
investment strategists to the island.  For Malta, the influx of hedge funds has been a boon. The
firms’ profits feed into the local economy, as do the legal and
accounting fees the companies generate. Total income from
financial services constituted about 12 percent of the island’s
gross domestic product of 6.2 billion euros in 2010.  Government Goal  While the government takes in relatively little direct
revenue from fund companies because of the island’s low taxes,
the firms have boosted employment on Malta, along with spending
on everything from  office space  and hotel rooms to restaurants
and transportation.  The government’s goal is for financial services to become a
pillar of the economy, accounting for 25 percent of Malta’s GDP
by 2015.  Malta has a way to go, says Joe Seet, a senior partner at
Sigma Partnership, a consulting and accounting firm in  London 
that advises hedge funds.  “If someone wanted to do something more than a
straightforward long/short fund, Malta may not be the right
place because the legal advisers, the auditors, the fund
administrators and the directors don’t really have deep
experience compared to Dublin and Luxembourg,” Seet says.  Due Diligence  Joe Bannister’s job is to change that perception.
Bannister, 66, a former biochemistry professor with a doctorate
from Oxford University, has headed the  MFSA  for more than a
decade. He says the MFSA is approachable, not pliable.  “We do extensive due diligence,” Bannister says. “No due
diligence, no license.” He says the MFSA has turned funds down.
It has declined to license funds focused on exotic investments
such as racehorses or professional athletes.  In other instances, Bannister says, the MFSA is likely to
turn away inexperienced fund operators unless they have a well-
known institution as a major shareholder.  Malta’s adoption of the euro in 2008 gave a lift to the
island’s ambitions as a hedge-fund center by eliminating a layer
of foreign-exchange costs. So did the prospect of a change to EU
hedge-fund regulation called the  Alternative Investment Fund
Managers Directive (AIFMD) .  As first proposed in April 2009 by the European Commission,
the AIFMD would have allowed only fund managers headquartered in
the EU to market funds within the bloc, barring funds based in
the Caymans or  Switzerland , not to mention the U.S., from
raising money in the EU.  Shut Out  The prospect of being shut out of Europe frightened many
managers into seeking an EU address, says Chris Bond, head of
global banking and markets business at the Maltese arm of  HSBC
Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   In the end, as published in 2011, the AIFMD opened the door
to funds outside the EU as long as their managers were located
in “well-regulated” jurisdictions.  Malta’s small size is a weakness as well as a strength,
according to the prime minister. Gonzi says he worries that
hedge-fund demand will exhaust the island’s talent pool.  Andrew Manduca, chairman of Maltese business for Deloitte
LLP, says the professional services firm already has had to
recruit English-speaking accounting graduates from the
 Philippines  to fill vacancies.  To encourage more talented expatriates to move to the
island, in 2010 Malta introduced a 15 percent individual tax
rate, down from 35 percent, for certain categories of financial
professionals earning more than 75,000 euros a year.  Competitive Advantage  Outside of major financial centers such as London, Malta’s
chief competitors for hedge-fund business within the EU are
Luxembourg and Ireland.  Malta has a competitive advantage, says Peter Hughes, group
managing director in London for Apex, an international fund
administration company that has offices in some 23 countries,
including Malta. He says it costs about 20,000 euros to set up a
fund management company in Malta -- about half of what it would
cost in Luxembourg.  Luxembourg and Dublin are not openly concerned.  “We have no major, short-term worry about our market
position,” says Marc Saluzzi, chairman of the  Association of
the Luxembourg Fund Industry .  Likewise, Gary Palmer, chief executive officer of the  Irish
Fund Industry Association , dismisses any threat to Ireland’s 40
percent global market share in hedge-fund administration.  Ireland’s funds industry has bounced back from the 2008
financial crisis, which damaged the reputation of the country’s
bank regulators and saw the assets of hedge funds based in the
country fall 14 percent over the course of a year.  ‘Unrivaled Breadth’  As of November, those assets were up 23 percent from 2007.  “Ireland has unrivaled breadth and depth of experience
across the widest range of investment structures and
strategies,” Palmer says.  Paul Keegan, a hedge-fund senior analyst who’s originally
from Ireland and now lives in Malta, has more than investment
structures on his mind when he stares out his office window at
the imposing bastions, church steeples and red-tiled roofs of
Valletta.  Keegan spent 10 years in London working for  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) 
and Merrill Lynch Investment Management before he decided to
move to Malta in 2010 with his wife and two sons, both under 5
years old.  “With a young family, we decided that life outside of
London was more appealing,” Keegan says.  300 Days of Sunshine  Keegan works at Finisterre Capital LLP, a $1.75 billion
hedge fund with offices in London, Malta and Westport,
Connecticut. Finisterre moved its parent company to Malta from
the Caymans in 2009.  Rather than just registering the business in Malta for tax
reasons, however, Finisterre has also moved important operations
to the island.  Keegan heads a Malta-based team that works with others in
London on fund performance analysis, trade settlements, investor
relations and financial reporting.  Frode Foss-Skiftesvik, one of Finisterre’s founders, says
the fund probably saves 40 percent by performing those tasks in
Malta rather than in London or Westport.  Keegan says adjustment to life on Malta is easy. U.K.
newspapers and British television are ubiquitous. Public
telephone booths are even the same iconic red ones found in
Britain.  Keegan doesn’t miss London’s weather. Malta averages 300
days of sunshine per year. And he and his wife are building a
house on the island, something he says they could never have
afforded to do in London, where they lived in a two-bedroom
apartment.  Bustling Bars  Two years after setting foot on Malta, Erik Nelson shares
Keegan’s enthusiasm for the place. Strolling along the harbor in
Sliema, a section of Malta’s northeast coast known for its
bustling bars and restaurants, Nelson says he doesn’t regret
leaving  Connecticut .  Nelson’s apartment is a two-minute walk from FMG’s offices.
He plays squash. He sails. He goes spearfishing.  “I’m a big water sports guy,” Nelson says. “Here, I can
walk out my front door, cross the road and jump in the water.”  He says if he gets “rock fever” and feels he has to get
off the island, the rest of Europe is just a short flight away.
As long as Nelson comes back to the rock, Malta’s government
will be happy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Kahn in London at 
 jkahn21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net .
To write a letter to the editor, send an e-mail to
 bloombergmag@bloomberg.net  