-- America’s Spoiled Voters, in Iowa and Elsewhere: Michael Kinsley
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-01-05T00:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/america-s-spoiled-voters-in-iowa-and-elsewhere-michael-kinsley.html
Six days ago, the Rick Santorum boom
was still a glint in  Mike Allen ’s eye. In a Des Moines Register
 poll  published the weekend before the Iowa caucuses, 41 percent
of respondents said they weren’t sure whom they were going to
support.  And these were people who expressed an intention to attend
a caucus. They had an inclination. But, like diners poring over
the menu at a fancy restaurant, they might yet change their
minds.  Indeed, if the polls are to be believed, many Iowa voters
must have changed their preferences multiple times over the past
few months, as the electorate as a whole (to lower the tone of
the metaphor) seemed to pick up one cantaloupe after another,
always looking for perfection, never finding it, putting the
melon back and reaching for another. The fruit that started at
the bottom of the bin -- Santorum -- got a big squeeze at the
end.  There is at least one difference, of course, between
choosing what to eat from the bounty of this country and
choosing among politicians clamoring for your vote: In the
restaurant, or with the cantaloupes, you are probably looking
for the best among a variety of appealing options. At the
caucuses, or in the voting booth, you are probably seeking the
least objectionable among a group of undesirables.  Plenty of Variety  At least that’s how  Iowa  Republican voters  apparently saw
it . To a non-Iowa non-Republican, it doesn’t look that way. It
looks as if Iowa Republicans had an embarrassment of riches to
choose from, including every variety of right-wing fruitcake,
from libertarian through evangelical; every degree of Washington
experience, from a former speaker of the House to a fellow who
can’t remember the names of Cabinet departments he intends to
eliminate; and all sorts of family values, from one candidate
who has seven children to one who has had three wives. All these
options, sandwiched in the polls between two reasonably normal
moderate Republicans: throwbacks to the days when primaries were
a road test for candidates, looking for one who might
conceivably win, rather than loyalty exams sponsored by the
various tendencies of modern conservatism.  All of these candidates pushed their positions and
arguments, and offered their physical presence, to Iowans for
the better part of a year. They spent tens of millions of
dollars telling people where they stand. Yet almost half of
those who intended to participate in a caucus said, just a few
days before the voting started, that they may still change their
minds.  What more information could they need? What did they think
might happen on Monday or Tuesday to clarify the choice for
them? Why the furrowed brows, the pulled chins? It’s partly, I
guess, a form of preening encouraged by political polls. Being
undecided makes you seem interesting. Being decided makes you
seem dull. You are no longer of any interest to the campaigns
and candidates -- even to the candidate you support.  Is there any other democracy on earth where the voters are
as spoiled as they are in the U.S.? Especially, of course, in
certain states, such as Iowa and  New Hampshire , where the old
joke is literally true about the citizens who say they haven’t
yet formed an opinion about a candidate because they’ve only met
the fellow a few times. But even voters in the rest of the
country -- if their votes have any relevance at all after the
residents of Iowa and New Hampshire have their say -- are
coddled in many ways.  Greatest on Earth  Consider just a couple. The conventions of political
rhetoric in other nations don’t ordinarily require candidates to
assure their audiences that they are the greatest people on
earth, or possibly the greatest people in all of history, as
every politician seeking national office in the U.S. must. There
have been nations, of course, whose politicians have used this
kind of talk and meant it -- often with tragic results. For
Americans, all this talk of greatness is more of a tic or a
habit than a guide to action.  I’m not worried about a slide into fascism. Still, it’s
unattractive. The U.S. is a pretty great place, where billions
of people around the globe would probably move in three seconds
if they could. But the more we go on and on about this, the less
true it is, and the harder it becomes to make it more true.  More generally, modern American politicians almost never
use their campaign rhetoric to deliver bad news or to challenge
the citizenry. Every problem we have (to the extent that such a
wonderful nation as ours could have any problems) can be solved
-- solved easily -- by a  tax cut  for you or a tax increase for
someone else. America’s problems today are not all that
different from those of  Europe . But the rhetoric is completely
different.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told Germans on New Year’s
Eve that  Europeans faced  the “harshest test in decades.” 2012,
she said, “will no doubt be more difficult than 2011.”  “Austerity” is what every European politician says is
necessary. Have any of this year’s Republican presidential
candidates (save  Ron Paul ) used this word, except dismissively
or with a sneer? Has President  Barack Obama ? This is partly
because of a legitimate debate in the U.S. about how much
austerity is needed, if any. But if and when a dose is needed,
the American politician will have a hard time administering it -
- and the American voter will be completely unprepared for the
sting.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor of this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 