-- Lampert Fund Cuts AutoZone Stake as Clients Pull Money Amid Sears Losses
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-01-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/lampert-hedge-fund-slashes-autozone-stake-as-hedge-fund-clients-pull-money.html
Edward Lampert ’s hedge fund cut its
stake in  AutoZone (AZO)  Inc. late last month to meet client
redemptions amid a series of setbacks at  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) ,
one of its biggest and highest-profile investments.  ESL Investments Inc., the firm run by Lampert, distributed
about $1.02 billion worth of AutoZone stock to investors in
connection with the closing of one investment partnership and
the restructuring of another, according to a regulatory filing
yesterday. The Greenwich, Connecticut-based firm also used
$351.4 million of shares in AutoZone and  AutoNation Inc. (AN)  as
payment in kind to meet year-end redemptions from its main fund,
ESL Partners LP, the filing showed.  Lampert has been selling AutoZone and AutoNation shares
while holding onto his entire stake in Sears, a strategy that
could leave his main hedge fund further concentrated in the
 Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based retailer. AutoZone rose 19
percent last year and AutoNation shares gained 31 percent, while
Sears shares plummeted 56 percent.  Sears, the nation’s largest department store chain,
announced last week that it would close as many as 120 locations
after sales at stores open more than one year declined 5.2
percent during the eight weeks ended Dec. 25. The company said
it would book as much as $2.4 billion in noncash expenses to
write down the value of good will and deferred tax assets, a
step companies often take after determining that future profits
will be insufficient to make use of such assets before they
expire.  An ESL representative in Lampert’s office yesterday
referred a telephone call to Steven Lipin, an outside spokesman,
who declined to comment.  Fund Performance  Lampert formed ESL in 1988 after working on the merger
arbitrage desk of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  under  Robert Rubin ,
who would go on to become U.S. Treasury Secretary under former
President  Bill Clinton . While the firm doesn’t disclose assets
under management, its primary fund, ESL Partners LP, has raised
a total of $9.16 billion since 1989, according to a filing with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  ESL Partners produced average annual returns of about 25
percent during its first 14 years, according to two people
familiar with the fund who requested anonymity because the
information is confidential. It stumbled in 2007 and 2008 with
declines of 27 percent and 33 percent, respectively, the people
said.  The fund gained 55 percent in 2009 and 16 percent the
following year, only to decline 4 percent during the first nine
months of 2011, the people said. The benchmark Standard & Poor’s
500 Index fell about 8.7 percent, dividends included, over the
same period last year.  Shutters Acres Partners  Lampert’s firm held 4.95 million AutoZone shares, or 12.6
percent of the outstanding stock, according to an  SEC filing 
dated Dec. 30. That’s down from 8.54 million shares, or 21.7
percent, in the previous filing a day earlier and 14.8 million,
or 33.8 percent, in December 2010.  The decline stemmed in part from the “restructuring” of
ESL Investors LLC, which was formed in 1999, according to
Delaware state records. As part of the restructuring, ESL
Investors distributed 1.16 million AutoZone shares to its
“investment member,” the filing said.  In addition, ESL disclosed it was shuttering Acres Partners
LP, an investment partnership formed in 1996 that held about
1.98 million AutoZone shares. Acres distributed all of the
shares on a pro-rata basis to its partners in connection with
the closing.  Cuts Stake  ESL Partners, Lampert’s primary fund, distributed 450,484
AutoZone shares and 5.56 million AutoNation shares to “limited
partners that elected in 2011 to redeem their interests” in the
fund, according to the filings. The redemptions cut ESL’s stake
in AutoNation to 52.5 percent from 56.4 percent of the auto
retailer’s shares outstanding. The fund didn’t distribute any of
its Sears shares to meet redemptions, according to a separate
filing Jan. 3.  AutoZone rose 2.2 percent to close yesterday at $326.96 in
 New York  trading. AutoNation fell 6.8 percent to $33.26 in New
York.  AutoZone, based in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , and AutoNation,
located in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida , have boosted revenue from
parts and services for aging U.S. cars as demand for new
vehicles tumbled during the recession, according to Brian Sponheimer, an analyst at Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New York.  Auto Sales Rise  After bottoming at sales of 10.4 million vehicles in 2009,
U.S. vehicle sales rose to an estimated 12.7 million last year
and may reach 16 million over the next three or four years,
Sponheimer said in a telephone interview yesterday. Vehicles
sales averaged about 16.5 million a year from 1997 through 2007,
he said.  “As these cars have aged, it required more extensive
repairs that helped companies like AutoZone increase their
average ticket and comparable-store sales,” Sponheimer said.
“AutoNation has done an outstanding job within their parts and
service business, which constitutes well over 50 percent of a
dealership’s gross profit on average.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  