-- Manchester United May Join Chase for Bolton’s Cahill, Sun Reports: Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-01-05T10:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/manchester-united-may-join-chase-for-bolton-s-cahill-sun-reports-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Cahill Chase  Manchester United  may join the chase for Gary Cahill, who’s
failed to work out a contract with Chelsea, the  Sun said .  Bolton agreed to a 7 million-pound fee ($11 million) with
Chelsea last week for the England defender, who is seeking a
salary of 100,000 pounds per week, 30,000 pounds more than the
Blues are offering, the Sun said.  United manager  Alex Ferguson  has said he won’t spend in
this month’s transfer period unless the right player becomes
available, but may make a move with his defense hit by injury,
the newspaper said.  Samba Boost  Tottenham’s pursuit of Blackburn defender Christopher Samba
has been bolstered by the news that Rovers manager Steve Kean
must sell to finance any moves, the  Daily Express  said.  Spurs manager  Harry Redknapp  plans to offer 8 million
pounds, as well as considering offers for Sebastien Bassong, the
Express said. Kean may cash in on Samba, Junior Hoilett and
Steven Nzonzi to help his relegation fight, the newspaper said.  Tomkins Bid  Newcastle has made a 4 million-pound offer for West Ham
defender James Tomkins, the  Daily Star  said.  Magpies manager  Alan Pardew  has already had two bids,
including one for 2.5 million pounds, rejected and his hopes
were raised yesterday after Tomkins told West Ham he wants to
leave, the Star said.  Two Defenders  Queens Park Rangers has made offers for defenders James Collins and Nedum Onuoha, the  Daily Mirror  said.  QPR manager  Neil Warnock  made a 3 million-pound bid for
Aston Villa’s Collins and offered 2.5 million pounds for
Manchester City’s Onuoha, the Mirror said.  Scouting Cavani  Chelsea has sent scouts to watch Napoli striker Edinson
Cavani at least five times as the club seeks a potential
replacement for Didier Drogba, the  Daily Mail  said.  Representatives of the 24-year-old Uruguayan, who is rated
at 35 million pounds, have made inquiries to the Premier
League’s big clubs to gauge their interest in a summer move, the
Mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 