-- Mandela’s Party Falters as Fighting Splits Century-Old ANC in South Africa
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-01-05T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/mandela-s-party-falters-as-fighting-splits-anc-in-south-africa.html
South  Africa ’s ruling  African
National Congress  is battling to contain internal rifts over
economic policy and leadership posts as Africa’s oldest
political movement marks its centenary.  The party of Nobel Peace Prize winners  Nelson Mandela  and
Albert Luthuli has won more than 60 percent support in every
election since the first all-race vote in 1994. That monopoly
over power in Africa’s largest economy belies mounting
instability in the ANC as militant youth groups and labor unions
vie for control ahead of party elections in December.  ANC Youth League leader  Julius Malema , who is fighting his
suspension from the party, ridiculed President Jacob Zuma in
songs at a provincial party rally last month as the league
switched its support to Deputy President Kgalema Motlanthe.
 Zwelinzima Vavi , general-secretary of the Congress of South
African Trade Unions, said on Dec. 13 corruption is a “cancer”
eroding the ANC, the labor group’s alliance partner.  “I don’t think the ANC is as strong organizationally as
what it was five or 10 years ago,” Susan Booysen, a political
analyst at the Johannesburg-based University of Witwatersrand,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s become factional warfare”
within the party’s ranks.  The divisions have impeded the ANC from taking a decisive
stand against Malema’s call for the state to nationalize mines
and banks, or overhauling  labor laws  that the  International
Monetary Fund  says discourage hiring.  ‘Ascent of Populism’  Eurasia Group, a New-York-based risk analysis company,
identified  South Africa  in a Jan. 3 report as one of the top 10
geopolitical areas with potential for instability in 2012
because of the “ascent of populism” within the party and the
leadership struggle.  “While politics seems to be maturing in many  emerging
markets , politics in South Africa increasingly stands in the way
of economic growth,” Anne Fruhauf, Eurasia’s Africa analyst,
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “Zuma’s need to
maintain alliances will make it difficult to decisively deal
with controversial debates, like the nationalization of mines.”  Zuma, 69, is under pressure from labor unions, the ANC
Youth League and the public to boost jobs in an economy where
one in four people are without work. The  National Treasury 
estimates gross domestic product needs to expand 7 percent a
year, more than double this year’s expected rate, to cut the
 unemployment rate  to 14 percent by 2020.  Smaller Decline  Reaction from investors to the political conflict has been
mixed. The benchmark  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  has dropped
about 16 percent in the past year, when measured in dollars, less 
than a 19 percent decline in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)   Gwede Mantashe, the ANC’s secretary-general, dismissed the
notion that the cohesion of the ruling party or alliance was at
risk, saying its signed-up membership had grown to more than 1
million from 621,000 in 2008.  “That is not an implosion, that is an expansion,” he said
in a telephone interview from Johannesburg. “The organization is
intact. It has normal organizational problems. You fight for
maximum unity in any organization. No political party will not
have its own dynamics and some factions that pull in one
direction or another.”  Those factions were on display last month, when rival
groups contested leadership posts in Malema’s home province of
Limpopo. Cassel Mathale, an ally of the youth leader, was
elected regional head of the ANC.  The ANC in Limpopo adopted a resolution to support
nationalization of mines even though the party is still
investigating whether it’s an option. Zuma told business leaders
in October that nationalization is a debate within the ANC and
not government policy.  Most in the World  London-based  Anglo American Plc (AGL) ,  Australia ’s  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  of Zug,  Switzerland , own mines in South
Africa, the world’s biggest producer of platinum and chrome.
Citigroup Inc. in April 2010 valued the country’s mineral
resources at $2.5 trillion, the most of any nation.  The ANC is holding a rally it says will attract more than
100,000 people in Mangaung, in the central Free State Province,
on Jan. 8, the date the party was created 100 years ago. The
celebrations, including a gala dinner and a golf day, will be
attended by 46 heads of state, including Zimbabwean President
Robert Mugabe and Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan . Zuma
will outline the party’s policy priorities for the year in his
keynote address.  The ANC’s predecessor, the South African Native National
Convention, in 1912 united tribal chiefs, black leaders,
churches and civil rights groups in a fight for the rights of
the country’s black majority during white segregationist rule.
The name was changed to ANC in 1923.  Apartheid Resistance  It mounted campaigns against laws that forced blacks from
their land and compelled them to carry permits to enter areas
reserved for whites. The ANC was banned in 1960 and began a
campaign of sabotage against government targets the next year.
Most of its leadership was arrested, including Mandela, who
spent 27 years in prison, or went into exile.  Popular resistance to apartheid and economic sanctions
forced the white government to the negotiating table and the ANC
was legalized in 1990. It took power under Mandela four years
later, winning 62.6 percent of the vote.  Party unity began to erode in December 2007, when Zuma won
control of the party from  Thabo Mbeki , Mandela’s successor, with
backing from the unions and the Youth League. Mbeki was ousted
as president of the country in 2008 after a court suggested he
pressured prosecutors to pursue corruption charges against Zuma.
A group of Mbeki’s allies, led by former ANC Chairman  Mosiuoa Lekota , then quit the ANC to form the Congress of the People,
which won 7.4 percent of the vote in 2009 elections.  “The ANC’s history has been completely eroded and been
diminished in the eyes of many people,” Smuts Ngonyama, a COPE
lawmaker and former head of the presidency in the ANC, said in a
telephone interview from Johannesburg. “There is less tolerance
of divergent views.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 