-- Landslide Kills 25 in Philippine Mining Town Hit by Storm
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2012-01-05T10:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/landslide-kills-25-people-in-philippines-storm-ravaged-island-of-mindanao.html
A landslide struck the storm-ravaged
Philippine island of Mindanao, killing 25 miners and adding to
destruction that has led to criticism of President  Benigno Aquino ’s leadership as the government vowed to investigate.  The slide that occurred early this morning left about 150
people missing, most of them family members of gold miners,
according to a 1 p.m. report from the  National Disaster Risk
Reduction and Management Council . The calamity in the town of
Pantukan in Compostela Valley province “wiped out several
shanties and houses,” Southern Mindanao Police Deputy
spokeswoman Gretchin Cinco said in a mobile-phone message.  Authorities are still struggling to help more than 400,000
people in Mindanao needing assistance after Tropical Storm Washi
hit on Dec. 17, killing 1,257 in the region. Aquino spokesman
Edwin Lacierda promised an investigation into why people living
in areas prone to landslides weren’t evacuated.  “This is totally unacceptable,” Lacierda told reporters
today. “There will be an investigation, and of course there
will be some accountability.”  Senator Aquilino Pimentel, whose party endorsed Aquino in
2010 elections, said in a statement earlier this week that local
and national officials didn’t coordinate effectively to warn of
the coming storm. The National Disaster Risk Reduction and
Management Council said on its website today 101 people were
still missing from the Dec. 17 floods and rains, not counting
the landslide.  Contaminated Water  Three people have died from leptospirosis, a bacterial
infection that spreads in water contaminated with rat urine, it
said. At least 171 people are being treated for leptospirosis as
almost 8,000 families contend with poor sanitation inside
cramped evacuation centers, the agency said in the  report today.   “This has been a yearly problem,” Ateneo de  Manila 
University political science professor Benito Lim said in a
telephone interview in Manila today, referring to the
government’s poor response to calamities. “We see that our
political leaders are only interested in handing out charity
bags and they think they have done their jobs.”  Local media have focused on Aquino’s attendance of a
Christmas party on Dec. 18 as the death toll mounted. Aquino’s
spokesman, Ricky Carandang, said by telephone the following day
that the chief executive attended the gathering held for his
security staff for “a few minutes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  