-- LanzaTech to Convert Acquired Ethanol Plant for Biochemicals
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-01-05T03:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/lanzatech-to-convert-acquired-ethanol-plant-for-biochemicals.html
LanzaTech NZ Ltd., a closely held
biofuels company backed by billionaire  Vinod Khosla , will
convert a U.S. cellulosic ethanol plant it bought from Range
Fuels Inc. to produce chemicals from biomass.  The $5.1 million deal completed on Jan. 3 provides
LanzaTech with its first plant, Chief Executive Officer Jennifer Holmgren said yesterday in a telephone interview.  “We have been doing a lot of work on steel mill gases and
other gases to ethanol mostly, but in the laboratory we have
shown that we can make chemicals,” Holmgren said. “We don’t
have any assets where we can control the feedstock that are
large and are able to help us scale up,” she said.  Auckland, New Zealand-based LanzaTech is developing a
 process  that uses proprietary microorganisms to convert carbon
monoxide-containing gases from  steel mills , oil refineries and
chemical plants into ethanol and chemicals. It’s also working
with the U.S. Department of Energy on making jet fuel.  The Range plant, located in Soperton, Georgia, was sold
Jan. 3 at a fraction of the financial support it received. The
U.S. Department of Agriculture required a  foreclosure sale 
following Range’s default a year ago on an $80 million loan
guarantee the agency offered during George W. Bush’s
administration. The plant was also supported by more than $160
million in venture funding and part of a separate $76 million
grant the Department of Energy awarded under Bush.  While LanzaTech will use the facility to make biochemicals,
it has partnerships in Asia focused primarily on converting
steel mill gases into ethanol with seven of the global Fortune
500 companies, Holmgren said.  The company has established joint ventures to build plants
at steel mills owned by Baosteel Group Corp., China’s largest
manufacturer, and  Shougang Group , the fourth-largest, Holmgren
said.  Other companies exploring the use of its technology include
Indian Oil Corp.,  LCY Chemical Corp. (1704) ,  Posco (005490) , Mitsui & Co., and
 Harsco Corp. (HSC) , Holmgren said. An initial 100,000 gallons-a-year
demonstration plant at one of Baosteel’s mills near Shanghai is
complete and will be commissioned later this year, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  