-- Hard-line U.S. Policy Tips Iran Toward Belligerence: Vali Nasr
-- B y   V a l i   N a s r
-- 2012-01-05T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/hard-line-u-s-policy-tips-iran-toward-belligerence-vali-nasr.html
The latest warning by  Iran , that a
U.S. aircraft carrier that recently transited through the  Strait
of Hormuz  should not do so again, is a sign to the West that
should be well-observed. It tells us the regime in Tehran is
ready for a fight.  Tensions between Iran and the U.S. are so high, a
conflagration could be tripped off without either country
intending it. This latest spiral of hostility began after the
U.S. and its European allies responded to the  International
Atomic Energy Agency ’s report on Iran’s nuclear activities by
imposing and threatening additional, tougher sanctions. New U.S.
measures may drastically cut Iran’s oil revenue.  That, in turn, may threaten the Iranian regime’s hold on
power. Predictably, then, the ruling clerics are responding with
shows of strength to boost solidarity at home. And they can be
counted on to accelerate  Iran’s nuclear program , which they see
as a deterrent to foreign intervention.  To escape this self-defeating outcome, the Western powers
should imagine how the situation looks from Tehran.  In recent months, Iranian protesters have brazenly attacked
the U.K. Embassy in Tehran. Iran has claimed to have downed a
U.S. drone, put on 10-day war games simulating attacks on U.S.
ships, and threatened to push oil prices to $250 a barrel and to
close the  Strait of Hormuz , through which about 20 percent of
all oil trade passes.  Changed Stance  This defiance marks a change. Until recently, Iran had
absorbed economic pressure from abroad. It had remained silent
in the face of covert operations aimed at slowing the progress
of its nuclear program, brushing off the destructive Stuxnet
computer worm, apparently a joint U.S.-Israeli project. But the
government has been embarrassed and unnerved by multiple
assassinations of its scientists and by suspicious explosions at
its military facilities. One blast killed the general charged
with developing Iran’s missile program. The attacks have shaken
the country’s security forces.  The ruling clerics are also worried about the impact of
economic sanctions, which have greatly reduced Iran’s access to
global financial markets, created shortages of imported items,
and increased inflation and unemployment. The rial has fallen to
its lowest point against the dollar, and capital is fleeing the
country at an alarming rate. The government has been forced to
scrap numerous infrastructure projects, especially in the oil-
and-gas sector.  These hardships have caused popular discontent. The next
set of sanctions may bring street protests. Iran’s rulers fear a
repeat of the demonstrations of 2009. They now see the U.S.
policy on Iran -- of toughening sanctions and also, at the
 United Nations , addressing Iran’s human-rights record and
support for terrorism -- as one aimed at regime change.  That makes attaining nuclear weapons of critical importance
to the clerics. Without such weapons, Iran could face the Libya
scenario: economic pressure causing political unrest that
invites intervention by foreign powers that feel safe enough to
interfere in the affairs of a non-nuclear-armed state. The more
sanctions threaten Iran’s internal stability, the more likely
the ruling regime will be to pursue nuclear deterrence and to
confront the West to win the time Iran needs to reach that goal.  It wasn’t preordained that Iran would opt for battle. For
much of the past year, its leaders have debated how best to deal
with Western pressure. The alleged plot to assassinate the Saudi
ambassador in  Washington , which U.S. officials uncovered in
October and blamed on Iran, suggests a faction has been making
the case for direct confrontation with the West. But President
 Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  had hoped the September release of two
Americans, hikers arrested by Iranian authorities and charged as
spies, would shield Iran from further pressure and even create a
diplomatic opening with the U.S. on the eve of his trip to the
UN. Instead, Ahmadinejad went home empty-handed.  ‘Serious Concerns’ Articulated  Subsequent events seem to have settled the policy debate in
Tehran. They included the accusations by the U.S. in the
Washington plot; a UN report critical of Iran’s record on human
rights; the IAEA report articulating “serious concerns” about a
possible Iranian nuclear-weapons program; and the ensuing fresh
sanctions.  By a remarkable unanimous vote, the  U.S. Senate  passed a
bill imposing sanctions on foreign financial institutions
engaged in oil-related transactions with Iran’s central bank,
which would greatly hinder that country’s ability to sell its
oil. Reluctant to go that far, President  Barack Obama  opposed
the bill and instead signed a slightly amended measure that gave
the U.S. administration six months to enforce the sanctions if
it judges they could cause oil prices to soar. Iran has
interpreted sanctions that hurt its oil exports, which account
for about half of government revenue, as acts of war. If there
are new, mysterious attacks on Iranian scientists or military
facilities, the climate for conflict will be that much hotter.  Obama administration officials think Iran is weak and
isolated. They focus on the country’s shambolic economy, its
faltering relations with  Europe , and the effect the Arab Spring
has had in turning public opinion in the  Middle East  against
Iran.  But Iran’s rulers have a different outlook. Here’s what
they see: The U.S. and Europe are economically weak and
extremely vulnerable to high  oil prices .  China and Russia have
broken  with the U.S. and Europe over Iran. The U.S. is hastily
leaving  Iraq  and abandoning the war in  Afghanistan . U.S.
relations with  Pakistan  are unraveling.  Iran’s rulers believe the new Middle East is a greater
strategic challenge to the U.S. than to Iran. For the U.S., the
region will be far less pliable under rising Islamists than it
was under secular dictators. As those Islamists take control of
governments from  Morocco  to  Egypt , new opportunities arise for
Tehran to forge diplomatic and economic ties.  Consequently, the Iranian regime thinks it can counter
international pressure on its nuclear activities long enough to
get to a point of no return on a weapons program.  Rather than discourage this aggressive Iranian position,
U.S. policy is encouraging it, making a dangerous military
confrontation more likely. There are no easy options for dealing
with Iran, but not persisting in a failing strategy is a good
place to start.  (Vali Nasr is a Bloomberg View columnist, a professor of
international politics at the Fletcher School of Law and
Diplomacy at  Tufts University  and a senior fellow in foreign
policy at the  Brookings Institution . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Vali Nasr at  vali.nasr@tufts.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Lisa Beyer at   lbeyer3@bloomberg.net . 