-- Arizona Medical-Pot Suit Dismissed by Judge Seeing No Prosecution Threat
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-01-05T22:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/arizona-medical-pot-suit-dismissed-by-judge-seeing-no-prosecution-threat.html
A U.S. judge dismissed a lawsuit
asking the court to decide whether  Arizona  could carry out its
medical-marijuana law without subjecting state workers to
federal charges.  Arizona Governor Jan Brewer claimed the voter-approved
measure contradicted federal law and put state employees, who
are charged with approving medical-marijuana dispensaries, at
risk of prosecution. Her administration refused to approve
dispensary applications pending the outcome of the lawsuit.  In her ruling yesterday, U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton
in Phoenix said the state failed to establish a “genuine threat
of imminent prosecution.”  Bolton gave the state 30 days to amend and refile the
complaint. Brewer hasn’t decided whether she will renew the
case, her spokesman, Matthew Benson, said. Benson called the
ruling a “tremendous disappointment.”  “What the federal court has essentially said is that it
won’t hear the state’s lawsuit until we have an employee who is
either prosecuted or notified that they face imminent
prosecution for their part in facilitating Proposition 203,”
Benson said in a telephone interview, referring to the ballot
initiative that legalized medical marijuana. “That is an
untenable position for any state employee.”  Charles Miller , a spokesman for the U.S. Justice
Department, said in an e-mail that the agency wouldn’t comment
on the ruling.  Fifteen States  Arizona and 15 other states have legalized the use of
marijuana for medical purposes in violation of federal law.
Brewer filed her lawsuit against the federal government and
would-be dispensary operators after U.S. attorneys in other
states said state employees wouldn’t be immune from federal
prosecution. The suit asked the court to decide whether federal
law nullifies the state statute or if the Arizona measure
protects state workers from federal prosecution.  Arizona’s  law , approved in November 2010 by a margin of
fewer than 5,000 votes, created a system of dispensaries to be
regulated by the state health department and capped at 125
statewide. Patients are barred from growing their own marijuana
if they live within 25 miles of a dispensary.  Grow Your Own  Brewer and Attorney General Tom Horne, who both publicly
opposed the measure, filed the lawsuit five days before the
state was set to begin accepting applications from would-be
dispensary operators in May. The move opened the door for
patients and caregivers to grow their own marijuana. So far, the
state  has approved  18,000 medical marijuana patients, of which
15,000 are allowed to grow their own pot, according to the
Health Services Department website.  Joe Yuhas of the Arizona Medical Marijuana Association said
voters wanted a regulated dispensary system and never intended
to have thousands of patients growing their own pot. His
organization of would-be clinic operators will consider suing in
state court if Brewer’s administration doesn’t move forward with
the dispensaries, he said.  “We would hope that our state leaders will now recognize
it is time to stop wasting taxpayer dollars in an effort to
thwart the will of the voters and move ahead with full
implementation of the initiative,” Yuhas said in a telephone
interview.  The case is State of Arizona v. U.S., 11-cv-1072, U.S.
District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  