-- Markets Embrace Supercommittee Deficit Failure, Prudential’s Krosby Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-01-05T14:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/markets-embrace-supercommittee-deficit-failure-prudential-s-krosby-says.html
Congress’s failure to agree on
$1.5 trillion of deficit reductions in November was met with
relief among investors because the economy got more time to
heal, according to Prudential Financial Inc.’s  Quincy Krosby .  “The markets are truly relieved that we’re not getting the
cuts and the commensurate pullback of economic growth that would
have come from the committee doing its job,” Krosby, chief
market strategist at Prudential Annuities, said yesterday at a
conference in  New York . “It’s buying time for growth.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has increased 7.1 percent
since the so-called supercommittee said Nov. 21 that it was
unable to reach an agreement on deficit cuts. Corporate bonds
have gained 1 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  While the panel’s collapse is set to trigger $1.2 trillion
of automatic cuts, the failure to compromise on deeper
reductions avoids removing government support for the economy
prematurely, according to Krosby, who joined Prudential in 2009
after working at The Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. and
representing the U.S. to the  International Monetary Fund .  “We will have to pay at some point, but hopefully when we
do pay, the underlying growth is stronger,” she said. “We’re
buying time. Buying time is actually good.”  Treasuries have returned 0.2 percent since the
congressional committee’s negotiations ended in a stalemate and
returned 9.8 percent last year, the biggest gain since 2008,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Bond Market ‘Fine’  “Despite all this, the fixed-income market, the Treasury
market, appears to be fine,” said Krosby.  The lack of an agreement by the committee, created in
August under the Budget Control Act that raised the nation’s
borrowing limit, means across-the-board spending cuts to
domestic and defense programs are set to take effect starting in
January 2013.  Both major political parties blamed each other for the
stalemate, with Democrats saying Republicans wouldn’t relent on
taxes and Republicans accusing Democrats of rejecting an offer
to raise revenue along with spending cuts.  S&P cut the U.S. credit rating to AA+ on Aug. 5, citing
political wrangling that failed to put the nation’s finances on
a sustainable path. While  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors
Service have maintained their top rankings, they have lowered
their outlooks on the debt to negative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  