-- Marvell Advances After Analyst Predicts Google TV Windfall
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2012-01-05T22:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/marvell-advances-after-analyst-predicts-google-tv-windfall-1-.html
Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  shares
rose 7.3 percent after Nomura Securities International Inc.
predicted that a new agreement to supply chips to Google TV
devices may boost sales.  Marvell may get $30 million to $50 million from Google TV
shipments in 2012, Romit Shah, an analyst at Nomura in  New York ,
said today in a report. Though sales volume isn’t large yet, the
platform is “worth monitoring,” he said. Marvell announced the
partnership earlier in the day, saying that its Armada chip had
been designed into a new generation of Google TVs, which will
debut at next week’s  Consumer Electronics Show  in  Las Vegas .  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s biggest Internet-search company,
created the Google TV project in 2010 in a bid to gain a bigger
foothold in consumers’ living rooms. It develops software for
the effort and relies on manufacturers, such as Sony Corp., to
create TVs and equipment that work with the technology.  “Marvell and Google have teamed up to change home
entertainment forever -- transforming the TV into the command
center for our connected lifestyle,” Weili Dai, Marvell’s co-
founder, said today in a statement. “This is a major
breakthrough movement.”  Marvell shares rose to $15.23 at the close in New York,
bringing its 2012 advance to 10 percent. The stock had tumbled
25 percent in 2011.  Intel’s Role  Google TV is designed to make television viewing more like
Web surfing, with easier ways to search for content. Marvell’s
chips, which also go into mobile phones and computers, will help
Google TV devices deliver audio, video and Web content that’s
optimized for TV viewing. Google TV hardware has relied on  Intel
Corp. (INTC) ’s Atom chips, though the companies don’t have an exclusive
agreement.  Intel, the world’s largest chipmaker, has backed away from
the TV market in recent months. The company said in October that
it was ending an effort to get its processors into televisions,
though it will still supply chips to set-top boxes.  Apple Inc. also looks to popularize Internet television.
The company sells a device called Apple TV that helps people
access their digital content on a TV. Apple is developing its
own television set as well, people familiar with the matter said
last year.  While Internet TVs have yet to generate “real volumes,”
they could eventually threaten traditional television, Shah said
in his report. He has a “neutral” rating on Marvell shares.  “As more streaming content shifts to the Internet, Google
TV and Apple TV have the potential to cannibalize traditional
set-top boxes in our homes,” Shah said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in  San Francisco  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  