-- Stocks in U.S. Reverse Declines as Bank Shares Jump; Treasuries, Euro Fall
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-01-05T21:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/asia-stocks-aussie-drop-on-europe-concern.html
Most (.TOTALAD)  U.S. stocks rose, reversing an
early slump, as banks and technology companies rallied and
employment data bolstered optimism in the economy. Treasuries
fell, while the euro and commodities dropped.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.3 percent to
1,281.06 at 4 p.m. in New York after losing as much as 0.9
percent. About three shares rose for every two that fell on U.S.
exchanges. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slipped 2.72 points,
or less than 0.1 percent, to 12,415.7. Ten-year Treasury yields
gained two basis points to 2.00 percent. Banks led European
stocks lower as the euro weakened to a 15-month low versus the
dollar and Italian, Spanish and French bond yields rose. Sugar
and natural gas led a drop in commodities.  Equities  recovered (SPX)  from losses triggered by reduced
earnings forecasts at companies including Target Corp. and J.C.
Penney Co. and borrowing costs climbed at a French debt auction.
Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Sun Trust Banks
Inc. gained as Deutsche Bank AG said fourth-quarter results
should include some “encouraging signs.” ADP Employer Services
said companies added 325,000 workers last month, the highest in
records going back to 2001.  “We’re starting to see better data in the U.S. as opposed
to the obsession with Europe that we’ve seen all of last year,”
 Donald Selkin , chief market strategist at National Securities
Corp. in New York, said in a telephone interview. “Now you can
see that there’s a separation between what’s happening here,
which is better, and Europe, which is still projected to go into
recession.”  Banks Rally  All but one of 24 stocks in the KBW Bank Index rose,
sending the gauge to its highest level since October as Bank of
America surged 8.6 percent to lead gains. Banks also climbed on
speculation the Obama administration may introduce a nationwide
mortgage-refinancing program. Bank of America slipped 2.2
percent in extended trading after an administration official
with knowledge of the matter said the White House has no plans
for refinancing program.  The refinancing speculation was fueled in part by a Jan. 4
note from Jaret Seiberg, a policy analyst at the Washington
Research Group. He theorized that President  Barack Obama  could
install a housing advocate at the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency , which regulates  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac .  ‘Encouraging Signs’  Fourth-quarter earnings reports from the largest U.S. banks
should include some “encouraging signs” including accelerating
loan growth, higher mortgage revenues and improving credit,
Deutsche Bank analyst  Matt O’Connor  said in a note to clients.
JPMorgan is scheduled to release earnings on Jan. 13, the first
major bank scheduled to report results.  The six largest lenders may post an average profit increase
of 57 percent this year, according to 184 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Improved trading results, more
investment-banking deals, expense-cutting measures and lower
credit costs will lead to the increase in earnings that didn’t
materialize last year, analysts say, helping financial shares
rebound after they were the worst-performing industry in the
U.S. in 2011.  Technology companies in the  S&P 500  increased 0.5 percent.
LSI Corp. rallied 7.7 percent, the most since July, after the
maker of chips used in computer disk drives was raised to
“outperform” from “neutral” at Wedbush Securities.  Gap Inc., Target Corp. and Kohl’s Corp. slid at least 1.8
percent as each reported December same-store sales that trailed
analysts’ estimates after mistiming promotions or running out of
inventory during the  holiday shopping season .  Earnings Season  Alcoa Inc. is scheduled to mark the unofficial start of the
fourth-quarter earnings season on Jan. 9. Profit at S&P 500
companies rose 6.2 percent during the September-December period,
according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg, which
would mark the slowest growth since the third quarter of 2009.  ADP Employer Services said payrolls grew by 325,000 last
month, topping the median economist forecast for growth of
178,000 jobs. Applications for U.S. jobless benefits fell 15,000
last week to 372,000, Labor Department  figures (INJCJC)  showed. The
median estimate of 38 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
forecast 375,000 claims. The average over the past four weeks
declined to the lowest level in more than three years.  The data comes before tomorrow’s payrolls report from the
Labor Department, which is forecast to show the  U.S. economy 
generated 155,000 jobs last month, according to the median
estimate. Another report today showed the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s index of U.S. non-manufacturing industries, which
account for about 90 percent of the economy, rose to 52.6 in
December from 52 a month earlier.  ‘Kick in the Face’  “The recent economic data has been a kick in the face to
the bears,” Tom Mangan, who helps oversee $3 billion at James
Investment Research Inc. in Xenia,  Ohio , said in a telephone
interview. “Too much bad news is already in the market in a lot
of different sectors and stocks,” he said. “So the market
continues to have a firm tone to it.”  The S&P GSCI Index of commodities slumped 1.3 percent as 20
of the 24 materials it tracks declined. Natural gas led losses,
sliding to a two-year low, after a government report showed a
widening U.S. surplus. Oil fell for the first time in three
days, slipping 1.4 percent to $101.81 a barrel, as U.S.
inventories increased. Sugar tumbled 5.3 percent as weather
conditions improved for  Brazil ’s cane crop, the world’s largest.  The  Stoxx 600 Index (SXXP)  fell 0.9 percent, extending yesterday’s
0.6 percent drop. UniCredit SpA slid 17 percent to the lowest
level since 1992, plunging for a second day after yesterday
announcing plans to sell shares in a rights offer at a 43
percent discount.  Benchmark indexes in  Italy  and  Portugal  declined more than
2.9 percent and  France ’s CAC-40 Index slid 1.5 percent.  Euro Weakens  The euro weakened against 14 of 16 major peers. The shared
currency slid as much as 1.3 percent to $1.2771 and lost as much
as 0.8 percent to 98.48 yen, an 11-year low. The dollar
strengthened against 15 of 16 major peers, weakening only
against the Taiwanese dollar.  The yield on France’s 10-year bond rose four basis points
to 3.35 percent. The  extra yield (.FRANGER)  investors demand to hold French
10-year debt instead of benchmark German bunds increased 10
basis points to 149 basis points, the highest since November.  France sold 7.96 billion euros ($10.2 billion) of debt,
with 10-year borrowing costs rising in the country’s first bond
auction of the year as credit-rating companies threaten to cut
the nation’s AAA grade.  Italy’s 10-year yield rose 15 basis points to 7.09 percent,
while the rate on Spanish bonds of similar maturity increased 20
basis points to 5.64 percent.  Bailout Bonds  Europe ’s bailout fund is losing its appeal as a bond issuer
after investors ordered about 4.5 billion euros ($5.8 billion)
of its 3 billion euros of notes compared with demand of nine
times on its first deal a year ago. That’s after the European
Financial Stability Facility offered investors a yield spread
almost seven times what it paid to sell 5 billion euros of
securities last January, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Hungarian stocks fell for a third day, sending the BUX
index down 2.1 percent. The average yield on Hungarian 12-month
bills jumped to 9.96 percent from 7.91 percent at the last sale
of the same maturity on Dec. 22, according to auction results on
the state debt management agency’s Bloomberg page.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  