-- Asian Currencies Weaken as Europe Debt Crisis Concern Deters Risk-Taking
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-01-05T09:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/asian-currencies-weaken-as-europe-debt-crisis-concern-deters-risk-taking.html
Asian currencies weakened, led by the
Philippine peso and Thailand’s baht, as concern Europe’s debt
crisis will worsen damped demand for emerging-market assets.  The  Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index (ADXY)  fell for a second
day after UniCredit SpA, Italy’s biggest bank, said it will sell
shares at a 43 percent discount to the Jan. 3 closing price to
raise capital. Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said
yesterday the economy could collapse as early as March if the
country doesn’t accept income cuts needed to secure more
international aid. The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index of shares lost
0.7 percent. India’s rupee and Indonesia’s rupiah gained.  “Europe’s debt concern reverses the risk-on mood and makes
the dollar stronger,” said Norawit Suparinayok, a foreign-
exchange trader at Bangkok Bank Pcl. “Asian currencies may be
weaker against the dollar.”  The peso dropped 0.5 percent to 43.982 per dollar as of
5:27 p.m. in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. Thailand’s
baht weakened 0.4 percent to 31.62, while Malaysia’s ringgit
declined 0.3 percent to 3.1475.  France plans to sell as much as 8 billion euros ($10.3
billion) of debt today as credit-rating companies threaten to
cut the nation’s AAA rating.  Fitch Ratings  cut the country’s
credit outlook on Dec. 16 on the “heightened risk of contingent
liabilities” from the euro-region crisis.  Standard & Poor’s 
placed the ratings of 15 euro nations, including  France  and
Germany, on review for possible downgrades on Dec. 5.  Yuan Reference Rate  The yuan dropped after the central bank lowered its daily
reference rate by the most since November amid concern the
European debt crisis will cool demand for Chinese goods.  The People’s Bank of China set the fixing 0.18 percent
weaker, the biggest reduction since Nov. 15, at 6.3115 per
dollar. Global economic growth prospects are dim and downside
risks are escalating, Zhu Min, deputy managing director at the
 International Monetary Fund , said in Singapore today.  “The lingering European debt crisis will harm China’s
exports and the central bank is taking account of this,” said
Kenix Lai, a Hong Kong-based currency analyst at Bank of East
Asia Ltd.  The yuan fell 0.1 percent to 6.3017. The currency is
allowed to trade 0.5 percent on either side of the daily fixing.  Rupee Rises  The rupee gained for a third day on speculation the central
bank will cut interest rates to support a slowing domestic
economy, attracting capital inflows. The currency appreciated
0.2 percent to 52.8550.  Overseas investors boosted holdings of Indian shares by $54
million in the first two days of this week, exchange data show.
 Reserve Bank  of  India  Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said today
that the nation’s current cycle of monetary tightening has
“peaked.” The bank boosted interest rates 13 times in the last
two years to curb inflation. India’s factory output shrank 5.1
percent in October from a year earlier, government data showed
last month.  “There are expectations of inflows,” said Naveen Raghuvanshi, a trader at Development Credit Bank in Mumbai.
“But developments in Europe will also drive the currency.”  The rupiah reversed earlier losses of as much as 0.7
percent and gained 0.2 percent to 9,115. South Korea’s won slid
0.3 percent to 1,152.56 and the  Singapore dollar  fell 0.4
percent to S$1.2927. The  Taiwan dollar  gained 0.1 percent
NT$30.266.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net 
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  