-- Titanic Cache Heads to Auction on 100th Anniversary of Voyage
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-01-05T20:35:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/massive-titanic-cache-heads-to-auction-on-100th-anniversary-of-voyage.html
When explorer Paul-Henri Nargeolet
first dove to the ocean floor surrounding the wreck of the RMS
Titanic, he found a debris field that “looked like a flea
market,” he said.  “In one spot there were a lot of things from the kitchen -
- pots, pans, dishes. Over there were cases of wine and
champagne,” Nargeolet said in an interview today. “The
suitcases, we found almost everywhere.”  Now the objects that Nargeolet recovered -- more than 5,000
of them -- are going on sale in a manner bearing little
resemblance to a flea market. Guernsey’s auction house will
offer the objects in one lot on April 11, the centennial of the
start of luxury liner’s fateful first -- and last -- voyage. The
sale will take place at the Intrepid Air & Space Museum in
 Manhattan .  An appraisal in 2007 valued the objects and the
intellectual property associated with them at $189 million.  The seller is  Premier Exhibitions Inc. (PRXI) , known for traveling
shows such as “Bodies.” Premier owns RMS Titanic Inc., which
recovered the objects.  “We’re looking for a steward,” said Brian Wainger,
spokesman for Premier.  “Many, many tens of millions have been put into the
recovery and conservation of objects, and we’ve done everything
at museum-quality standards,” he continued. “But we are a
public company and we recognize this is probably better situated
in private hands. We want a third party with the same commitment
we have, and better resources.”  No Stealing  The Atlanta-based company wants to pass along the artifacts
as well as its responsibilities at the wreckage site. The
company serves as chief monitor of the site, guarding against
pillagers. About 50,000 objects still remain on the debris
field.  “If we got 10 good plates of a certain kind, then we left
the others,” Nargeolet said.  The collection includes red-and-white plates used by third
class passengers, blue-and-white plates used by those in second
class, and blue-and-gold plates used by those in first class.  A philanthropist, a museum or a private company are all
potential buyers, said the president of Guernsey’s, Arlan Ettinger, who noted that the final bidder must be approved by
the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of  Virginia ,
under Judge Rebecca Beach Smith.  Nargeolet said he would be happy to take the winning bidder
on a dive to the wreckage site.  To contact the writer on this story:
 Amanda Gordon  in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 