-- Audi Seeks to Pass Other German Brands in U.S.
-- B y   C h a d   T h o m a s   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-01-05T23:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/audi-adding-models-for-u-s-in-bid-to-grab-lead.html
Audi will add models to feed U.S.
passion for sedans and sport-utility vehicles and gain ground on
market leaders  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG. (BMW)   Audi will use the  Detroit  motor show next week to unveil a
concept “Vail” version of the compact Q3 SUV for the U.S.
market and plans to build a sedan version of the A3 hatchback
after the newest model comes to market this year, Chief
Executive Officer Rupert Stadler said in an interview.  U.S. growth is critical to efforts by Audi, the top seller
in western  Europe  and  China , to replace  BMW (BMW)  as the world’s
largest luxury-car maker by 2015. The  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  brand took a
step forward last year by delivering more cars worldwide than
Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz for the first time. In the U.S., BMW and
Mercedes sell more than twice as many cars as  Audi (VOW3) .  “The next pillar of the market that we have to conquer is
the  United States ,” Stadler said in  London  yesterday. “We see
opportunities in the SUV and sedan segments.” The Ingolstadt,
Germany-based company also plans to bring back the A2 compact
car, a model it discontinued several years ago, he said.  Audi will begin producing cars in  North America  by 2015,
building 150,000 vehicles as a first step, Stadler said. BMW and
Mercedes are already making SUVs in the U.S. and the Audi CEO
said he’ll be looking also at assembling SUVs or sedans in the
region. Local production would give the carmaker, which Stadler
said is now profitable in the U.S. after years of losses, a
natural hedge of $2 billion to $2.5 billion.  Small-Car Contest  The competition among the top three luxury-car brands has
heated up, with Audi’s growth prompting Daimler CEO Dieter Zetsche to set a goal of retaking the top spot that it lost to
BMW in 2005. To back up its pursuit, the Stuttgart, Germany-
based manufacturer is rolling out a line of five sportier small
cars, including a coupe and a sport-utility vehicle, to target
Audi-leaning buyers like Bo Tang.  The 33-year-old purchasing manager for an energy company
was eyeing an A3 wagon, which starts at 21,100 euros ($27,000),
at a dealership in  Frankfurt  in late December after earlier
considering a Mercedes B-Class. The Audi’s power, value and
styling gave it an edge over the van-like Mercedes compact.  “For the same price, there are better possibilities” than
a 26,000-euro B-Class, said Tang, who is looking to upgrade from
her Mini. “The Audi A3 is just more comfortable and seems to be
better quality than the B-Class. You also get more horsepower
for your money.”  Not No. 3  Mercedes (DAI)  is hoping to get a second chance at customers like
Tang this year after it introduces the A-Class, a sporty
hatchback that will take on Audi’s A3 and BMW’s 1-Series. The
carmaker is building an 800 million-euro factory in  Hungary ,
where labor costs are a fifth the level in  Germany , to be more
competitive in the compact segment and counter Audi’s ties with
Volkswagen.  Small cars are critical to Mercedes’s comeback strategy.
Audi sold about 80,000 more cars than Mercedes in 2011. The new
Mercedes models are projected to narrow Audi’s lead to about
40,000 this year, according to data from IHS Automotive. The
forecasting group predicts Audi will slip back to third in 2013.  “It’s impossible to tell our customers, employees and
investors that we accept being No. 3,” Daimler’s Zetsche said
in a September interview. By not confronting the competition,
“we were running the risk that our people assume it’s a law of
nature that we grow slower than BMW and Audi.”  To underscore its ambitions, Audi will also introduce an
updated version of the best-selling A4 in  Detroit . The entry-
level sedan will feature cleaner-running engines and sportier
styling in an effort to compete with BMW’s overhauled 3-Series,
which goes on sale in February. Mercedes will debut the revamped
SL roadster at the show.  Super Bowl Campaign  “They were never considered as cool as BMW and Benz,”
said  Jesse Toprak , an automotive analyst with TrueCar.com, a
 Santa Monica , California-based website that tracks industry
trends. “Their brand image simply wasn’t strong enough
domestically in the U.S., and if you look at the luxury market,
that’s what buyers buy: image.”  Boosted by Super Bowl ad campaigns and high-profile
placements in blockbuster movies such as  Iron Man , Audi’s brand
is getting stronger, Toprak said.  The improved prospects mean that  AutoNation Inc. (AN) , the
largest U.S. car retailer, is making new Audi dealerships a
priority, opening three in the second half of 2011 for a total
of five, said Marc Cannon, a spokesman for the  Fort Lauderdale ,
Florida-based company, which has 17 Mercedes locations and 13
BMW dealers.  ‘Limited Availability’  “In the past, Audi has had limited availability,” Cannon
said. “Consumers’ decisions have really just come down to who’s
got the best availability at the time.”  Mercedes (DAI)  has an image issue of its own. With the oldest
customers among the top-three luxury brands -- 54 on average
compared with 48 for Audi, according to San Diego-based market
researcher  Strategic Vision  -- its reputation as an older
person’s car could hamper its goal of attracting younger
drivers. Audi has captured that market with sportier vehicles
such as the R8 and TT that pushed design limits and helped lift
the brand.  “Of course we are thinking about that type of car,”
Stadler said. “In the next decade, we will have to think about
the next icon in the Audi brand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Reiter at   creiter2@bloomberg.net . 