-- Barnes & Noble Falls After Projecting Wider Full-Year Loss
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-01-05T21:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/barnes-noble-falls-after-projecting-wider-full-year-loss-1-.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , the largest U.S.
bookstore chain, fell the most in four months after forecasting
a wider annual loss than analysts projected and saying it may
spin off the Nook e-reader business, its fastest-growing unit.  Barnes & Noble  tumbled (BKS)  17 percent to $11.24 at 4 p.m. in
New York, for the largest decline since Aug. 19. The shares rose
2.3 percent last year.  The fiscal 2012 loss may be as much as $1.40 a share, the
New York-based company said in a statement. The retailer
previously  forecast (BKS)  a loss of as much as 50 cents a share. The
average estimate of six analysts was 59 cents.  Increased investing in the Nook business and lower-than-
expected sales of its  Nook Simple Touch  device led to the
lowered forecast, Barnes & Noble said. The company has been
sacrificing profits to build its digital business as more
consumers read electronic books.  The Nook business is “the one remaining growth driver for
this company,” said Peter Wahlstrom, an analyst for Morningstar
Investment Services in  Chicago . “Now they’re talking about
getting rid of that one growth driver. That changes the value of
the business.”  Total sales of Nook devices surged 70 percent during the
holiday-shopping period, according to the statement. Sales on a
comparable basis in the Nook business, including digital content
and hardware devices and accessories, rose 43 percent to $448
million during the nine-week period ended Dec. 31. Store sales
rose 2.5 percent to $1.2 billion.  Investor ‘Drumbeat’  Since first offering the Nook in November 2009, the company
has introduced three more devices as well as digital content and
accessories. Sales in the Nook division may total $1.5 billion
in the fiscal year ending April 30, the company said.  The performance of the Nook and calls from investors to
increase  shareholder value  led to the decision to consider a
spinoff, Chief Executive Officer William Lynch said in a
telephone interview today.  “Talking to investors, we heard a drumbeat for this,”
Lynch said. “We don’t feel the value of the asset is being
reflected in the stock.”  Lynch declined to comment on when a decision on the Nook
unit will be made or how a transaction might be structured.  The challenge for the retailer has been investing in a
digital business that competes with  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , which have much more money to spend on product development
and talent, according to  Michael Souers , a New York-based
analyst for  Standard & Poor’s . Amazon’s Kindle device, which was
introduced in 2007, is the best-selling e-reader in the U.S.,
where the company sells the most digital books.  ‘Tough Environment’  “Amazon really can afford to subsidize that part of their
business and Barnes & Noble can’t,” Souers said. “It’s a
really tough environment for them.”  Liberty Media Corp. (LCAPA) , controlled by billionaire  John Malone ,
invested $204 million in Barnes & Noble in August after dropping
its earlier bid to buy the bookseller. Barnes & Noble also
gained customers after Borders Group Inc., once the second-
largest U.S. book chain, sought  bankruptcy protection  and
liquidated last year.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will be as much as $180 million for the fiscal
year. The company previously projected as much as $250 million.  Revenue for the fiscal year will be as much as $7.2
billion, the company said. Souers projected $7.25 billion.  ‘Red Flag’  “They’ve invested so much, and they couldn’t grow sales
more than analysts were projecting,” Souers said. “That’s a
red flag.”  Barnes & Noble plans to boost sales of the Nook and digital
content by expanding overseas in the next two months, Lynch
said. Discussions are being held with publishers, retailers and
technology companies in international markets.  Comparable-store sales during the holidays at the chain’s
more than 700 stores rose 3.4 percent. Revenue from physical
books sold at stores increased 4 percent, the first sales growth
in five years, according to the statement.  “That’s a positive, but that business is still dying a
slow death,” Souers said.  That leaves investors hoping that the Nook business will
continue to grow against better-financed competitors, Wahlstrom
said. That environment and a reduction in its Ebitda forecast
gives a spin off more credence because the company needs to
raise capital to keep up with Amazon.  “They go against deep-pocketed companies,” Wahlstrom
said. “It’s an uphill battle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  