-- Bayer Judge Postpones First Yaz Trial, Orders Birth-Control Cases Mediated
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-01-05T17:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/bayer-judge-postpones-first-yaz-trial-orders-birth-control-cases-mediated.html
Bayer AG (BAYN) ,  Germany ’s largest
drugmaker, won’t face the first trial next week over claims its
birth-control pills caused blood clots after a judge appointed a
mediator in hopes of settling the cases.  U.S. District Judge David Herndon in  Illinois  last week
postponed the Jan. 9 trial of a lawsuit accusing Bayer and some
of its units of misleading women about the health risks of its
Yasmin family of birth-control pills. The case was the first of
more than 10,000 suits over injuries allegedly caused by the
drugs, which include the Yaz contraceptive.  Instead, Herndon ordered Bayer and lawyers for women suing
the company to meet with mediator  Stephen Saltzburg , a George
Washington University law professor, to explore the possibility
of “settlements in this litigation,” the judge said in a Dec.
31 order.  Bayer’s contraceptives generated $1.58 billion in sales in
2010, making them the Leverkusen, Germany-based company’s
biggest-selling drugs after  Betaseron,  a multiple sclerosis
medication. The contraceptives, which contain the hormone
drospirenone, have been the focus of regulators who question
their safety.  “While continuing to defend the litigation, the company is
engaged in mediation and settlement discussions,” Rosemarie Yancosek, a Bayer spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement
today.  Bayer rose 1.5 percent to 52.27 euros in Frankfurt trading.
The shares have fallen 3.8 percent during the past 12 months.  FDA Scrutiny  Last year, the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  warned
that women taking the pills were 74 percent more likely to
suffer blood clots than women on other low-estrogen
contraceptives. The FDA examined data on more than 835,000 women
who took pills containing drospirenone, including Bayer’s Yasmin
line of birth-control pills, according to the FDA report.  Bayer’s Yasmin was the No. 4 oral contraceptive in the U.S.
last year with 4.6 percent of the market as of September,
according to data from  IMS Health .  Since 2009, the German drugmaker has faced a wave of suits
in courts across the U.S. alleging the birth-control pills
caused sometimes fatal blood clots. Lawyers suing the drugmaker
cited FDA reports of at least 50 deaths tied to the pills from
2004 to 2008.  The cases filed in federal courts were consolidated before
Herndon in  East St. Louis, Illinois , for pretrial information
exchanges.  ‘Outside the Courtroom’  Herndon scheduled a series of trials for early this year so
juries could begin weighing claims that Bayer and its units
marketed Yaz and other contraceptives as safer than rivals’
products while knowing they posed a higher risk of clots.  After Bayer officials protested that so-called bellwether
trials wouldn’t provide much guidance on the validity of
plaintiffs’ claims, Herndon called in Saltzburg as a mediator,
Michael Papantonio, a Pensacola, Florida-based lawyer for women
suing Bayer, said earlier this week. He was slated to be one of
the lead lawyers for Kerry Sims, whose case was scheduled to
begin Jan. 9.  “Bayer didn’t want to go to trial and the judge decided to
see whether they wanted to seek a solution outside the
courtroom,” Papantonio said. “He’s giving both sides a chance
to be creative.”  AstraZeneca Mediation  Starting in 2010, Saltzburg served as a mediator in suits
against London-based drugmaker  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  over its  Seroquel 
antipsychotic medicine. The company later set aside more than
$600 million to resolve more than 26,000 claims and Saltzburg
won praise for his work in that litigation.  “He’s a smart and hardworking individual who doesn’t just
push to settle cases at any price,” said  Michael Kelly , a
lawyer who represented AstraZeneca in the Seroquel cases and
worked with Saltzburg.  The law professor “has a strong sense of right and wrong
and he works to come up with a fair valuation on the cases that
everyone can live with,” said Kelly, chairman of McCarter &
English, a  Newark , New Jersey-based law firm.  Herndon hasn’t set a time limit on Saltzburg’s mediation
efforts, Papantonio said. If the talks falter, the judge is
prepared to reset Yaz cases for trial, the lawyer said.  “We’re ready to try cases, but we’re also willing to talk
if Bayer wants to make a good-faith effort,” Papantonio said.  Bayer also was slated to face Yaz trials in state court in
Philadelphia this month. A judge put the first case on hold
while the Pennsylvania Supreme Court decides whether to hear a
procedural issue, Mark Robinson , a lawyer for women suing the
company over the contraceptives, said earlier this week.  The case is In re Yasmin and Yaz (Drospirenone) Marketing,
Sales Practices and Product Liability Litigation, 09-md-02100,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Illinois (East St.
Louis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  