-- Best Buy Gaining 59% as Cash-Rich Retailer Invites LBO: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-01-05T22:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/best-buy-seen-appreciating-59-as-cash-rich-retailer-invites-lbo-real-m-a.html
For private equity buyers looking for
a retailer that throws off the most cash, there’s no bigger
bargain than  Best Buy (BBY)  Co.  After losing almost a third of its market value in 2011,
the world’s largest seller of consumer electronics was valued at
just 3.6 times its  free cash flow (BBY) , the cheapest of any retailer
worth more than $1 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Best Buy, one of the five  worst-performing (S5RETL)  retail
stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index last year, also
reached its cheapest valuation relative to earnings.  While same-store sales have fallen in five of the past six
quarters as demand for televisions slumped and competition from
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. intensified, Best Buy
can still enrich leveraged buyout firms after generating $2.44
billion in free cash in the past year, Telsey Advisory Group and
Morningstar Inc. said. The $8.21 billion company could get at
least $37 a share in a takeover, according to Thornburg
Investment Management, 59 percent more than its price yesterday.  “Now would be the time, if I were private equity, to be
dusting this off,”  Joe Feldman , a New York-based analyst at
Telsey, said in a telephone interview. “They generate a ton of
free cash. From a valuation standpoint, it does look like an
attractive candidate for a takeout.”  Susan Busch, a spokeswoman for Richfield, Minnesota-based
Best Buy, declined to comment on the decrease in its value or
whether the company has been approached about a sale.  Today, Best Buy climbed 0.9 percent to $23.44 in New York.  Relative Value  Last year, Best Buy fell 32 percent, more than all but
three retailers in the  S&P 500 , the benchmark gauge of American
common equity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. On
average,  U.S. retail stocks (S5RETL)  rose 2.9 percent in 2011.  With Best Buy ending at $23.23 yesterday, it traded at
about 3.6 times its  cash from operations (BBY)  after deducting capital
expenses of $6.46 a share, the data show. That’s less than a
quarter of the industry’s median of 17.6 times.  The retailer was also  valued (BBY)  at 2.8 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the past 12
months, the lowest level since at least 1990, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “By any valuation approach you want to use, it looks
inexpensive,”  Matt Arnold , an analyst for St. Louis-based
Edward Jones & Co., said in a telephone interview.  Best Buy, which sells everything from mobile phones to TVs
and  dartboards  at its more than 4,000 locations, has fallen as
shoppers sought bigger discounts on the same items from online
merchants such as Amazon in  Seattle  or at Bentonville, Arkansas-
based  Wal-Mart (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer.  ‘Must-Have’  The company has also been hurt by a lack of must-have
electronics items, according to Brian Nagel, a New York-based
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. The company’s  same-store sales (BBY) 
decreased for five straight quarters before rebounding 0.3
percent in the three months ended Nov. 26.  “Best Buy has basically contended with a really tough
product cycle and increased competition over the last few
years,” he said in telephone interview. “These online
retailers are selling products for a lot cheaper, and that’s
difficult for Best Buy to contend with. The stock has been so
weak because of those factors.”  Best Buy’s slump may now attract private equity funds
because it still produces more free cash than any comparable
retailer and has more cash than  debt (BBY) , according to R.J. Hottovy,
director of consumer research at Chicago-based Morningstar.  Takeout Price  A buyout firm could close more stores, shrink the size of
other Best Buy locations and replace management to cut costs and
help it compete with merchants such as Amazon, he said. In
April, Best Buy said it planned to reduce the square footage in
its U.S. “big-box” stores by 10 percent in the next three to
five years to lower costs by as much as $80 million annually.  “With regard to private equity, this is a situation that
might make some sense,” Hottovy said in a telephone interview.
“It does have a solid free  cash flow  profile and this is a
situation where Best Buy may benefit from a more dynamic
 leadership (BBY)  group, a group that understands the evolving dynamics
of the consumer electronics retail business.”  One obstacle an LBO firm could face is resistance from Best
Buy Chairman Richard Schulze, who founded the company and owns
about 20 percent of its  stock (BBY) , according to Bradley Thomas, an
analyst with KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. in New York.  “I would be surprised if he would support the more short-
sided and financially-oriented approach that an LBO investor
would be looking to generate,” he said.  Still, with the additional cost cuts and earnings a private
equity firm could potentially wring out, Best Buy may command at
least $37 a share in a buyout, or $13 billion, according to Di Zhou, a  Santa Fe , New Mexico-based analyst at Thornburg, which
oversees $70 billion in assets and owned Best Buy stock at the
end of September. Zhou based her estimate on analysts’ average
 earnings projections (BBY)  and a multiple of 10 times.  “Some of the things we see, private equity firms could see
as well,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 