-- Bids Double Offers on Tax-Exempt Debt as RBI Says Rates Peak: India Credit
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-01-06T05:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/bids-double-offers-on-tax-exempt-debt-on-rate-peak-india-credit.html
India ’s individual investors, lured
by yields at about the highest since 2008, offered to buy more
than twice the amount of tax-exempt bonds sold by state-run
companies as a central banker said  interest rates  have
“peaked.”  National Highways Authority of India and Power Finance
Corp. received 335 billion rupees ($6 billion) of bids from
private investors for the 140 billion rupees being sold to
finance government improvements, underwriters said. The notes
yield as much as 8.3 percent, compared with the 7.55 percent
that Indian Railways Finance Corp. offered in October, when it
sold the nation’s first public issue of tax-free debt.  “The hope that we are now at the top of the rate cycle
adds to investor interest and tax-free and tax-deductible bonds
offer better implied yields,” S.J. Balesh, a Mumbai-based
senior director at Infrastructure Development Finance Co., or
IDFC, said in an interview on Jan. 3. “There is more retail
interest because of the high yields offered.”  Investors want to lock in yields as Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn signaled yesterday that the  Reserve Bank  of India’s
 benchmark (INRPYLD)  rate won’t rise from the current 8.5 percent. India’s
repurchase rate compares with 0.25 percent in the U.S. and 1
percent in the  euro zone  after policy makers sacrificed growth
last year to rein in price increases in a nation where the
average person lives on less than $2 a day. The inflation focus
meant that 10-year government bond  yields (GIND10YR)  rose 65 basis points
in 2011 while the  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  of shares fell 25 percent.  Bond Bids  IDFC, based in Mumbai, plans to issue tax-deductible bonds
“soon,” according to Balesh.  National Highways Authority, the road builder known as
NHAI, got 245 billion rupees of bids for its 100-billion rupee
debt issue that comprises 10- and 15-year maturities, G. Suresh,
the company’s chief general manager for finance, said in an
interview on Jan. 4.  Power Finance (POWF) , which aims to raise 40 billion rupees from
10- and 15-year debt, has received bids for more than 90 billion
rupees, according to Ashish Agarwal, executive director at A.K.
Capital Services Ltd., one of the arrangers. Both the NHAI and
Power Finance notes are rated AAA by Standard & Poor’s Indian
unit, Crisil Ltd.  Rating, Returns  Indian Railway Finance Corp., the funding arm of the
nation’s rail ministry, hired arrangers for a sale of tax-exempt
bonds that may begin as soon as this month, according to a
person with direct knowledge of the matter who declined to be
identified because the terms weren’t set.  Trinath Behera, New Delhi-based general manager for bonds
at Indian Railway Finance, said in an interview yesterday that a
date for the issue hadn’t yet been decided.  The tax breaks on the bonds mean that investors may lock in
returns of as much as 12 percent, 3.7 percentage points more
than the yield on 10-year government debt, according to Mumbai-
based Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd., one of the arrangers of the NHAI
issue.  “The bonds are also benefitting from their top rating, as
they are issued by government-backed companies,” Paritosh Kashyap, a Mumbai-based executive vice president at Kotak
Mahindra Bank, said in an interview on Jan. 4. The demand for
the bonds shows that “the retail market is developing and
investors are getting more educated about their investment
options,” he said.  Economy Slows  Investors in the government debt market are betting that
the central bank will cut borrowing costs in 2012 as the economy
slows. Food prices fell 3.36 percent in the week ended Dec. 24
after increasing 0.42 percent the previous week, commerce
ministry data showed yesterday.  Industrial output (INPIINDY)  shrank 5.1
percent in October from a year earlier, the first contraction
since June 2009, government data showed last month.  The yield on the government’s benchmark 8.79 percent note
due in November 2021 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 8.34 percent today, according to the central bank’s
trading system. The yield has dropped 23 basis points this
month.  The  yield (BCOPAAA0)  on 10-year bonds issued by top-rated Indian
companies was 9.34 percent yesterday, after touching 9.8 percent
in November, the highest level since 2008.  The  difference (GIND10YR)  in yields between Indian securities due in a
decade and similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries has shrunk 9 basis
points this month to 635 basis points. Rupee-denominated notes
returned 6.7 percent in the past year, according to indexes
compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc. Indonesian debt returned 19.2
percent, the most among Asian markets monitored by the lender.  No ‘Win-Win’  Allowing state-run companies to sell tax-free bonds isn’t a
“win-win proposition” for the government, according to Mumbai-
based A.K. Capital Services Ltd., one of the arrangers for the
Power Finance sale.  “The bonds hurt the exchequer as the government is missing
out on a heavy amount of taxes,” Ashish Agarwal, a New Delhi-
based  executive director  at A.K. Capital, said in an interview
on Jan. 4. This may make the  finance ministry  “circumspect”
about allowing companies to sell more tax-free bonds in the
financial year starting April, especially as the  economy slows (INQGGDPY) ,
he said.  The rupee advanced 0.4 percent to 52.7550 per dollar today
after the RBI’s Gokarn said policy makers are “very concerned”
about the currency’s 16 percent depreciation last year.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting the debt of  State Bank  of India,
considered a proxy for the nation, has surged to 393 basis
points from 153 basis points a year earlier, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in privately negotiated markets. The
swaps pay the buyer face value for the underlying securities
should a company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  India’s benchmark Sensex stock index fell for a third day
today, dropping 0.7 percent. The index’s slide last year was the
worst since 2008.  Investor demand for tax-free bonds will continue to be
“amazing,” according to Mumbai-based IDBI Federal Life
Insurance Co. that oversees about $430 million.  “The yield is so attractive that eligible investors would
not let go of this opportunity,” Aneesh Srivastava, the Mumbai-
based chief investment officer at IDBI Federal, said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  