-- BlackRock Sees U.S. Growth as High as 2.5%
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2012-01-05T17:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/blackrock-says-u-s-economy-to-post-growth-despite-great-idle-.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
money manager, said the  U.S. economy  may grow as much as 2.5
percent this year even as  Europe  faces a recession after failing
to solve its sovereign-debt crisis.  The U.S. may expand 2 percent to 2.5 percent next year,
Robert C. Doll, BlackRock’s chief equity strategist, said today.
 Russ Koesterich , chief investment strategist for the New York-
based firm’s iShares unit, forecast expansion of 1.75 percent to
2.5 percent. Both said Europe may enter a recession.  “In 2012, the big swing factor for the world economy will
be the success of the continuing effort to fix Europe’s debt and
credit issues,” Doll said. “Failure to advance this effort
could be disastrous.”  BlackRock forecasts are more optimistic than those of rival
Pacific Investment Management Co., which last month predicted
U.S. growth of 0 percent to 1 percent. Recent reports have shown
the economy strengthened at year-end, with an index of  consumer
confidence  rising and the pace of firing declining.  BlackRock, which manages $3.3 trillion globally, hasn’t
published a firm-wide forecast and individual units can have
differing outlooks.  ‘Great Idle’  “The most recent measures indicate that growth in the
U.S., other developed countries and emerging markets is
stabilizing, albeit at a below trend level,” Koesterich wrote
today in his outlook for the year. “The global economy in 2012
will likely remain in its ’Great Idle,’ with slow, positive
growth and an economic crisis avoided.”  Bill Gross , chief investment officer of Newport Beach,
California-based Pimco, wrote yesterday that the global markets
and economies are at “great risk” and that the financial
markets are “slowly imploding.” In a reversal from last year,
Gross recommended that investors find ways to hedge their bets,
including investing in U.S. Treasuries and the dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  