-- Blackhawks Carcillo, Flames Bourque Suspended by NHL; Tortorello Fined
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-01-05T05:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/blackhawks-carcillo-flames-bourque-suspended-by-nhl-tortorello-fined.html
Chicago Blackhawks  forward Daniel Carcillo was suspended for seven games and Calgary Flames
forward Rene Bourque was banned for five for illegal challenges
on National Hockey League opponents this week.  Carcillo will forfeit $66,158 in pay for knocking Edmonton
Oilers defenseman Tom Gilbert into the boards on Jan. 2, the
league said on its website last night. Bourque, 30, will lose
$203,252 in salary for hitting  Washington Capitals  forward
Nicklas Backstrom in the head with his elbow the next day.  Carcillo, 26, will sit out today’s game against
Philadelphia and will be allowed to return to the ice on Jan. 18
against Buffalo. Bourque’s suspension rules him out of today’s
game against  Boston . He’s eligible to play again against  San
Jose  on Jan. 17.  As repeat offenders, each players’ fine goes to the
Players’ Emergency Assistance Fund.  Backstrom, 24, yesterday underwent inconclusive concussion
testing before participating in an off-ice workout with his team.
He’s listed as day-to-day by the Capitals while team doctors
monitor his head injury.  New York Rangers coach John Tortorella was also fined by
the league for accusing referees of conspiring with the league
and NBC to push the 2012 Winter Classic into overtime or a
shootout.  Tortorella was fined $30,000 for his remarks after the
Rangers beat the  Philadelphia Flyers  3-2 on Jan. 2, the New York
Times reported. The NHL didn’t disclose the amount of the fine
in a statement on its website.  “There is no acceptable explanation or excuse for
commentary challenging the integrity of the League, its
officials or its broadcast partners,” NHL Senior Executive Vice
President of Hockey Operations Colin Campbell said in the
statement.  Tortorella apologized before the fine was revealed.  “I tainted the Classic,” he told reporters. “It was
wrong with my sarcasm and frustration and I apologize to
everyone involved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  