-- BMW Beats Mercedes to Take Lexus’s U.S. Top-Selling Luxury Title
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-01-05T16:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/bmw-projected-to-beat-mercedes-in-u-s-2011-luxury-vehicle-sales.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW
brand outsold  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz last month to cement
its victory as the top luxury brand in the U.S. for 2011.  BMW’s sales rose 15 percent to 26,834 in December compared
with a year earlier, the Munich-based automaker said today in a
statement. With total 2011 sales at 247,907, BMW outsold
Mercedes by 2,715 vehicles.  “BMW Group sales momentum has been increasing all year and
this new burst of  consumer confidence  filled our dealer
showrooms putting” BMW “over the top,” Ludwig Willisch, chief
executive officer of BMW of  North America , said today in a
statement.  The battle between BMW and Mercedes to replace  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus as the top luxury brand in the U.S. after 11 years
was helped by a lack of the Japanese automaker’s production
following the March earthquake and tsunami in  Japan .  The competition was so intense between BMW and Mercedes
that each side refused to release their sales results yesterday
until the other went first, two people familiar with the
situation said. Other automakers announced December and full-
year U.S. sales yesterday.  Researcher Autodata Corp. released estimates yesterday for
the manufacturers using “credible industry sources,” Autodata
said in an e-mail. Autodata’s results showed BMW in the lead.  Ultimately, Mercedes went first, releasing its results on
PR Newswire at 8:56 a.m. New York time. BMW followed posting its
release on its  website  about 11 a.m.  Mercedes U.S. deliveries, aided by a refreshed C-Class
sedan and redesigned M-Class sport-utility vehicle, rose 28
percent to 25,701 vehicles in December, Mercedes said in its
statement. Deliveries of Mercedes vehicles for the year rose 13
percent to 245,192 in the U.S.  The results exclude Daimler’s Mercedes Sprinter and
Freightliner vans, and Smart cars and BMW’s Mini brand, which
aren’t  luxury vehicles . The 2011 full-year figures also exclude
sales of the Maybach brand.  ‘Unusual’ Delay  While some automakers in the past have delayed releasing
monthly results, “this is unusual,”  Jesse Toprak , an industry
analyst with TrueCar.com, a  Santa Monica , California-based
website that tracks auto sales, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “I don’t really recall this happening from two
automakers who are clearly going head-to-head against each
other. It’s too much of a coincidence.”  Lexus sales fell 8 percent to 25,355 last month and 13
percent to 198,552 to end the year, the Toyota City, Japan-based
brand said.  Industrywide sales rose 10 percent to 12.8 million,
Autodata estimated.  Tight Race  While BMW had led the sales race going into December, its
lead over Mercedes had narrowed to 1,600 after November.  Both automakers increased incentives in November and
carried forward customer discounts into December, according to
Ivan Drury, an industry analyst with Edmunds.com, a Santa
Monica, California-based website that tracks automotive
discounting.  Mercedes increased incentive spending in November by 39
percent compared to a year earlier and BMW’s incentives rose 25
percent, according to Autodata. Many of those discounts and
incentives are on the C-Class and 3-Series, which are the
automakers’ top sellers.  Rivals have noticed the discounting.  “They’ve been outspending us -- even with some relatively
newer products,” Kurt McNeil, Cadillac’s vice president of
sales, said yesterday in a telephone interview. BMW has offered
$400 to $600 a car more than the  General Motors Co. (GM)  brand, he
said, and Mercedes’s discounts exceeded Cadillac’s by more than
$1,000. “They’ve been bringing it from an incentive
standpoint.”  Cadillac sales for the year rose 3.7 percent to 152,389,
the Detroit-based automaker said. In December, deliveries fell
2.7 percent to 16,259.  Mercedes surged after BMW ended the third quarter leading
its German rival by 7,817 vehicles sold in the U.S.  New Vehicles  Two new products by Mercedes, a refreshed C-Class car and
M-Class sport-utility vehicle, arrived in showrooms in
September.  C-Class sales, which included a new two-door version of the
compact car, rose 88 percent in October and 113 percent in
November compared with the same months a year earlier. The C-
Class’s direct competitor at BMW, the 3-Series, saw sales
declines of 9 percent and 15 percent in October and November,
respectively.  A new version of the 3-Series is being introduced next year
and  Jim O’Donnell , then-head of BMW’s U.S. operations, had
warned in August that Mercedes could gain ground as BMW wound
down the old version.  Compact Discounts  Both automakers increased incentive spending on their
compact offerings in November, according to Autodata.  Mercedes’s average incentive spending per C-Class rose to
$4,234 that month from $3,122 in October. The average incentive
spending on that vehicle for the year through November was
$3,516 compared to $3,237 a year earlier.  BMW’s incentive spending on average rose to $4,289 per 3-
Series last month from $3,367 in October, according to Autodata.
For the year through November, spending on that vehicle averaged
$3,167 compared to $3,370 a year earlier.  Lease deals are important in selling compact luxury cars
because many customers shop by monthly payment, Drury of Edmunds
said. In November, 65 percent of Mercedes’s C-Class buyers were
lease customers, as were 60 percent of BMW’s 3-Series customers,
according to Edmunds data.  “The main one that people think about is what am I paying
per month, they kind of forget sometimes that some of these
leases require $4,000, $5,000 down,” Drury said.  BMW advertised last month 3-Series monthly lease payments
on its website as low as $299 for shoppers with good credit.
Mercedes has deals as low as $349 per month for its C-Class, its
website said. BMW spent on average of $5,236 in incentives on 3-
Series leases while Mercedes spent $2,385 on C-Class leases in
November, Edmunds said.  No ‘Kitchen Sink’  “We increased our incentive spend but we did not throw the
kitchen sink at the month of November,” Steve Cannon, then-vice
president of marketing for Mercedes in the U.S., said during a
Dec. 1 interview. He has since been named chief executive
officer of Mercedes’s U.S. operations. Incentives are “in-line
with what we always do for our year-end event,” he said.  In November, Mercedes began offering the ability to pull
current customers out of their leases as much as eight months
early to get them into new vehicles, such as the C-Class, Bernie
Moreno, a Mercedes dealer near  Cleveland , said last month in an
interview.  “Before they only used to waive three or four payments,”
he said of Mercedes. Now he can call up a customer with the new
lease offer and, Moreno said, “what happens is that customer
who maybe would’ve considered a BMW and Audi, they get the bug
to buy a car now but BMW isn’t going to waive their eight
Mercedes payments. So, we keep them in a Mercedes.”  More Competition  This year, BMW and Mercedes will probably see greater
competition from  Lexus  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi, Edmunds’s Drury
said.  “I don’t think it should be so clear cut,” Drury said of
the luxury race this year. “I’m picturing that the sales taken
from Lexus and Audi should break up some of the closeness going
on.”  Mark Templin , head of U.S. Lexus sales, said yesterday that
the brand will grow about 20 percent this year with new
products. “We expect to be the fastest growing luxury brand in
the industry,” Templin said in a conference call. “We’ll have
a huge volume swing especially because of the launch of nine new
vehicles. it gives us a big push this year.”  U.S. deliveries of Audi, the premium brand of Wolfsburg,
Germany-based Volkswagen, rose 20 percent to 12,655 vehicles
last month, the company said in a statement. The brand’s sales
for the year rose 16 percent to 117,561 last year, helped by the
revised A6 sedan.  Porsche, Others  Porsche AG, the Stuttgart-based automaker, sold 1,834
vehicles in the U.S. last month, a 29 percent decrease, the
company said in a statement yesterday. U.S. sales for the year
rose 15 percent to 29,023.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s Infiniti sold 98,461 vehicles last year,
4.8 percent fewer than in 2010, the Yokohama, Japan-based
company, said in a statement. Deliveries in December fell 12
percent to 10,990.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , based in  Tokyo , said in a statement that
sales for its Acura brand fell 15 percent to 13,129 last month.
The brand, also hindered by the Japanese disasters, saw U.S.
sales fall 7.7 percent for the year to 123,299.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  sold 8,403 Lincolns in December, a 4.3
percent increase from a year earlier, according to a statement
from the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker. The brand’s sales
finished the year down 0.2 percent to 85,643 U.S. sales.  Land Rover deliveries rose 20 percent to 38,099, while
Jaguar sales dropped 8 percent to 12,276, the brands said in an
e-mailed statement. They are owned by Mumbai-based Tata Motors
Ltd.  BMW’s Willisch in a November interview reiterated that he
expected his brand to finish on top in 2011.  “Competition is tough,” he said. “If you’re in the No. 1
position, everyone else would like to be in your place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  