-- BOE Says U.K. Lenders Expect to Tighten Criteria on Loans
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-05T12:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/boe-says-banks-expect-to-toughen-loan-criteria-on-market-strains-economy.html
U.K.  banks (F3BANK)  expect to toughen the
criteria on loans to companies and households in the first
quarter because of strains in wholesale funding markets, which
may impede investment and economic growth.  “Lenders expected a tightening of credit-scoring criteria
for granting” mortgages and a “tightening of covenants on
loans to large and medium-sized companies,” the Bank of England
said in its fourth-quarter Credit Conditions Survey published in
London today. “Developments in the euro area and their impact
on banks’ funding conditions would be a key determinant of
credit availability over the coming quarter.”  Data from the central bank yesterday showed  mortgage
approvals (UKMSVTVX)  were little changed in November, underlining the
fragility of the housing market. The  Bank of England  said in
December that risks to U.K. financial stability from the euro-
area sovereign debt crisis have increased and “stronger
action” is needed to make banks more resilient to potential
shocks so that they can continue to lend.  “Although lenders expected a small increase in overall
credit availability in the coming three months, factors such as
the economic outlook and tighter wholesale funding conditions
were expected to impact negatively on credit availability,” the
Bank of England said today.  Services Growth  A separate report today showed U.K. services strengthened
in December, with an  index (PMITSUK)  for the industry rising to a five-
month high of 54 from 52.1 in November. Related surveys earlier
this week showed that factory and building activity also
improved last month.  The reports suggest that the recovery “regained some
momentum at the very end of last year,” said  Vicky Redwood , an
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “However, we
expect this to be short-lived -- not least because of the
prospect of continued weak bank lending, as highlighted by
today’s Bank of England’s Credit Conditions Survey.”  Today’s Bank of England survey also showed that  mortgage
demand (UKMSVTVX)  fell in the fourth quarter and banks expect a further
decline in the current three months. Demand for loans from small
companies will probably drop in the first quarter after it fell
“sharply” in the fourth quarter. For large and medium-sized
companies, loan demand will also probably decline in the current
quarter, the central bank survey said.  Household Income  On mortgages, lenders said they expected the proportion of
loan applications being approved to fall in the current quarter
as a result of the tighter credit-scoring criteria. Some banks
have “revised down expectations for households’ disposable
incomes and hence the affordability of taking out new secured
loans,” the survey said.  The Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee said last
month that while the impact of the euro crisis on the cost of
loans had so far been “relatively muted,” if funding stresses
persist “credit conditions could be expected to tighten
materially in 2012.”  A gauge of demand for mortgages fell to minus 21.2 in the
fourth quarter from 15.3 in the previous three months, the Bank
of England said. The expectations index for the first quarter
was minus 6.8. A measure of mortgage availability fell to 1.9 in
the fourth quarter from 8.4.  For companies, the index of credit availability rose to 11
in the fourth quarter from 3.9. The first-quarter measure was
8.1. Demand for loans from medium-sized companies was at minus
1.6 in the fourth quarter and minus 9.2 for the current quarter.
Demand among large companies was 1.5 in the fourth quarter and
minus 5.2 in the first three months of 2012.  The BOE survey was taken among U.K. lenders between Nov. 22
and Dec. 13. It also showed that an index of default rates on
mortgages fell to minus 24.4 from minus 12.3. A gauge of losses
from defaults rose to 14.6 from minus 0.8. The expectations
index on losses for the next three months was at 9.7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  