-- Boeing Betrays Wichita After Winning Tanker Deal, Mayor Says
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n ,   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-01-05T21:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/boeing-betrayal-stirs-wichita-after-city-helped-win-tanker-bid-mayor-says.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s decision to shut down
its Wichita,  Kansas , plant after more than 80 years betrayed
public officials who helped the planemaker win a U.S. Air Force
contract for midair refueling tankers, the city’s mayor said.  Boeing didn’t consult with city officials or ask for
financial incentives to stay put before announcing its decision
yesterday to close the  Wichita (10557MF)  plant with 2,160 workers before
2014, Mayor Carl Brewer said in a telephone interview. The
company had indicated that winning the tanker work last year
would support 7,500 local jobs, he said.  “They weren’t totally honest with us,” said Brewer of
Boeing, which has benefited from about $4 billion of municipal
bonds and hundreds of millions of dollars in tax relief. “We
thought the relationship was a lot stronger.”  Wichita’s loss may be a harbinger of reductions for cities
and states around the nation that depend on defense industry
employers as budget deficits squeeze Pentagon spending. Cuts of
as much as $1 trillion may be made over a decade under a
congressional deal to extend the U.S. debt ceiling last year.  “Before we had euro-zone contagion concerns, expectations
were that the budget was going to be stable,” said  Peter Arment , a defense industry analyst with Sterne Agee & Leach.
“Now we’re looking at a  defense budget  that has to reestablish
a new baseline, meaning a meaningful cut. We’re seeing the
realities of that played out, unfortunately, in Wichita.”  Boeing chalked up the move to changing industry economics.  Company Town  For Wichita, a community of more than 382,000 known as a
general, commercial and military aviation center for almost a
century, Boeing’s pullout may damage “a key part of the city’s
psyche,” said Lon Smith, executive director of the Kansas
Aviation Museum in the city. At one time, Boeing employed 40,000
locally, Smith said.  “It’s hard to go anywhere in this city and find people who
haven’t worked for Boeing or don’t have family who worked for
Boeing,” Smith said. “Boeing was a huge factor in this town.”  The manufacturer played a big role in the lives of some
residents of the city.  “I like to say that Boeing has helped pay for every piece
of food I’ve eaten since I was six months old,” said Judy
Swisher, a 71-year-old retired Boeing worker who spent 29 years
with the company. Her father and son also worked there.  “It was a good company to work for,” she said. “It’s
really going to be hard on Wichita.”  Long History  The company’s sprawling works made B-29 bombers during
World War II, B-52s as the Jet Age unfolded and modified
aircraft to serve as the president’s Air Force One in recent
years. In 2005, Boeing sold its local commercial plants, forming
 Spirit AeroSystems Holdings Inc. (SPR)   “We all hope Spirit will take over the plants,” Swisher
said, taking a break from shopping at a Disabled American
Veterans thrift store not far from the plant. “They have more
customers and are more diversified than Boeing.”  While the maker of commercial airframes and wing parts
added 1,000 workers last year worldwide and plans to continue
growing, a Spirit spokesman in Wichita said there was no special
push to pick up Boeing employees. The company supplies parts to
Boeing, such as the front section for airliners.  “There are some cross-overs in the skills that we need,
but not as much as most people probably think,” said Ken Evans,
the spokesman. “There’s a great difference between military
modification work and commercial first production.”  Previous Cuts  Other planemakers in Wichita have also pared jobs in recent
years, including Textron Inc.’s Cessna, which fired 7,500
employees, or about half its workforce, in 2009, while
Bombardier Inc. cut 820 from its Learjet factory in the city.
Wichita is known as the “Air Capital of the World,” reflecting
the presence of manufacturers such as Hawker Beechcraft.
 European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. (EAD) ’s Airbus unit also has
an engineering center in the area.  The community and state have taken steps to retain the
Boeing’s aircraft works and jobs. Since 1979, Wichita has issued
more than $3.5 billion of industrial revenue bonds to help
Boeing finance plants and facilities, city figures show. The
manufacturer has received $650 million in property-tax relief.  Less Trust  “Boeing is a poster child for corporate tax incentives,”
state Representative Jim Ward, a Wichita Democrat, said in a
statement. Kansas will be “less trusting” in awarding such
benefits in the future, Ward said. Boeing got sales- and
property-tax breaks and infrastructure investment “at every
level of government.”  The Kansas congressional delegation and other state and
local officials rallied around the Chicago-based company last
year to help it win the tanker contract. Boeing beat EADS in
February to land a $3.5 billion order for the first 18 aircraft,
extending its role as the sole supplier of the planes to the  Air
Force  since 1948. The work was up for grabs since at least 2002.  The company said it would locate the resulting jobs in
Wichita, according to Brewer, the mayor.  “We put up a huge fight to help them win that tanker
program,” said Brewer. “We wanted those jobs, but they weren’t
totally honest with us about whether we would get them.”  Broken Promise  Jim McNerney, Boeing’s chairman and chief executive
officer, “promised me” that if the company won the tanker
contract, it would stay in Wichita, U.S. Senator Pat Roberts, a
Kansas Republican, said yesterday in a statement. Others at the
meeting in his office included then-Senator  Sam Brownback , a
Republican who is now the state’s governor.  “The chairman again promised the entire delegation the
work would remain in Wichita just last February,” Roberts said.  Boeing didn’t plan to close the local operation when Kansas
politicians lobbied to help Boeing win the contract, Mark Bass,
a vice president in the company’s defense unit, told reporters
on a conference call yesterday in response to questions about
what city and state leaders were told. He said the new work
won’t make up for expiring projects in Wichita, where labor,
facilities and infrastructure costs aren’t competitive, and that
would make planes made there unaffordable for the Air Force.  Changes in the defense market in the past 18 months altered
Boeing’s plans, Bass said, and while a reevaluation of Wichita’s
viability included government incentives, they “weren’t a
driver” in that process. The company had said it would build
the tankers at its Everett,  Washington (STOWA1) , plant, which assembles
767 jets. Wichita was to make required military modifications.  Jobs to Move  Bass said 800 jobs will move from the Kansas site to
 Oklahoma City , as many as 400 will go to  San Antonio  and 100 to
the area around  Seattle . The company plans to sell its Wichita
property, with 97 buildings.  About 400 workers facing job losses are members of the
International Association of Machinists & Aerospace Workers,
according to Kathy Petersen, president of the union’s Lodge 839.
Much of the production is going to a nonunion shop in  Texas .  “Boeing is always something Wichita counted on,” said
Petersen, an industry worker for 25 years, some with Boeing.
“If you say Wichita and you say aircraft, you say Boeing.”  The loss may cost the local economy $1.5 billion in forgone
wages over 10 years, said Jeremy Hill, director of Wichita State
University’s Center for Economic Development and Business
Research. Another 8,200 jobs may be at risk, depending how much
Boeing’s suppliers are affected by the move, he said.  “I think the workers are getting ripped off,” Boeing
retiree Swisher said. “I know a lot of people who are still
working there who aren’t old enough to retire.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in  Dallas  at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
David Mildenberg in Wichita at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  