-- BofA Gains on Speculation of U.S. Mortgage Refinancing Beyond HARP Program
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-01-05T22:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/bofa-gains-on-speculation-of-u-s-mortgage-refinancing-beyond-harp-program.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the second-
biggest U.S. lender, surged the most in two months of trading
amid speculation that the U.S. may introduce a new mortgage
refinancing program.  The bank rose 50 cents, or 8.6 percent, to $6.31 at 4:15
p.m. in  New York , then forfeited some of the gain in late
trading after an Obama administration official who asked for
anonymity denied speculation that the White House is considering
a trillion-dollar plan to refinance home loans.  “There’s a lot of speculation about the big refinance wave
coming from Washington,” said Todd Hagerman, an analyst in New
York with Sterne Agee Group Inc., in a telephone interview.
“That being said, there are a lot of existing roadblocks to the
refinance boom occurring in the near future.” For now, even if
there is a change in public policy, “you’re not going to see
any impact whatsoever on the banks,” he said.  Lenders are grappling with costs stemming from loose
lending practices that led to the housing market’s  collapse (HOMFCLOS) .
Bank of America, which acquired subprime lender Countrywide
Financial Corp. in 2008, plunged 58 percent last year as refunds
and settlements tied to faulty mortgages mounted at the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based company.  Regions Financial Corp. and SunTrust Banks Inc. also rose
more than 4 percent in trading today, and the 24-company KBW
Bank Index added 2.2 percent. Bank of America sold for less than
$5 on Dec. 19. Measured at the close, today’s gain was the
company’s  biggest advance (BAC)  since Oct. 27 and the best showing in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average . The stock retreated 2.4
percent to $6.16 at 4:35 p.m. New York time.  Refinancing Program  The speculation was fueled in part by a Jan. 4 note from
Jaret Seiberg, a policy analyst at the Washington Research
Group. He theorized that President  Barack Obama  could install a
housing advocate at the  Federal Housing Finance Agency , which
regulates  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac .  “That could lead to a mass refinancing program for agency-
backed mortgages that would go well beyond the existing HARP
program,” Seiberg wrote, referring to the Home Affordable
Refinance Program, a federal effort to help distressed
borrowers. “That could hurt agency mortgage-backed securities
pricing and result in higher financing costs going forward. Yet
it also could be a big boost for the  economy (USURTOT)  and housing going
into the election.”  HARP helps borrowers refinance mortgages that don’t qualify
under traditional criteria because the property value has
dropped. Seiberg didn’t respond to phone calls and e-mails
requesting comment.  James Pethokoukis, a blogger from the  American Enterprise
Institute , a free-market think tank in  Washington , picked up on
the Seiberg report, predicting a “January surprise” from the
White House. He estimated that such a program could cost
$1 trillion over the next decade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  