-- Booming Mexico-U.S. Trade Buoys Kansas City Southern: Freight
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-01-05T05:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/booming-mexico-u-s-trade-buoys-kansas-city-southern-freight.html
Kansas City Southern railcars are
rumbling over the Rio Grande as record trade between Mexico and
the U.S. buffers the railroad from a slowing global economy.  Escalating shipping and labor costs in world manufacturing
centers such as  Asia  have encouraged companies including  Nissan
Motor Co. (7201)  and DuPont Co. to shift capital spending to Mexico.
Many of the goods produced by their investments will head to the
U.S., the destination for about 80 percent of Mexico’s exports.  Cross-border merchandise  trade  totaled $341 billion by the
end of September, about 18 percent higher than it was at the
same point in 2010, according to the most recent data from the
 Bureau of Transportation Statistics  in  Washington . The increase
will help Kansas City Southern, the only U.S. railroad with a
wholly owned Mexican subsidiary, weather the effects of a
possible European recession as the 125-year-old company seeks to
take business away from trucks traversing the border.  “This is the best organic growth story in the U.S. rail
network,” said Matt Troy, an analyst at Susquehanna Financial
Group in  New York . He estimates  Kansas City Southern (KSU)  revenue
will rise two to three times faster than similar regional
railroads for “several years.” “The combination of bringing
manufacturing capacity back from Asia and the potential for
highway share conversion creates a very strong one-two punch.”  Gunfighter Generation  Traffic at the  company (KSU)  founded in 1887, the same year
American gunfighter Doc Holliday died, increased 9.2 percent in
2011 through mid-December, Troy said, citing data from the
Association of American Railroads. That’s about two to three
times the growth at other North American railroads, he said,
adding that car loadings at Kansas City Southern have exceeded
their pre-recession peak in 2006, unlike the rest of the
industry.  Risks for Kansas City Southern include a possible recession
in the U.S. or new federal regulations. A reduction in volume on
its rails due to any prolonged weakness in the economy would
leave the company vulnerable because a unionized workforce makes
cost-cutting difficult, Troy said.  Also, “there’s increasing sensitivity toward pricing
power,” Troy said. “The risk would be if Washington were to
take a more proactive role in examining how rails price their
business.” Drug-related violence in Mexico hasn’t affected
Kansas City Southern’s operations, Chief Financial Officer
Michael Upchurch said at a Sept. 13 conference in  Chicago .  The company’s shares have  gained (KSU)  18 percent since June 30,
while the Standard & Poor’s  Railroads Index (S5RAIL)  has fallen 1.6
percent in the same period. Troy, who has a “positive” rating
on Kansas City Southern, said “you can check the box for every
type of investor.”  Room to Grow  As its plans in Mexico progress, the carrier has more room
to grow, can increase profitability and will probably soon offer
a dividend, he said.  Mexico accounted for about 45 percent of Kansas City
Southern’s $1.57 billion in revenue in the first nine months of
2011, according to company  filings . The company’s Mexican
carloads increased 15 percent to mid-December from the beginning
of 2011, Troy’s data show.  The fifth-largest U.S. railroad by revenue can cross the
border without having to hook up to a new engine, as is the case
with trucks, because of its counterpart, Kansas City Southern de
Mexico.  It also owns the rail bridge at Laredo,  Texas , where the
largest share of goods flow across the border between the two
countries. The railroad provides the only service at the Port of
Lazaro Cardenas on the west coast of Mexico, which is scheduled
to be expanded to compete with  California .  Union Pacific  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the largest U.S. railroad by revenue,
also carries goods to and from Mexico, using Ferrocarril
Mexicano SA de CV, of which it owns a portion. It relies on
Kansas City Southern, which moves almost half of Union Pacific’s
Mexican shipments, according to company  reports .  Traffic should continue to pick up as America’s southern
neighbor boosts factory output, according to Neal Deaton, an
analyst at BB&T Capital Markets in Charlotte,  North Carolina ,
who has a “buy”  rating (KSU)  on Kansas City Southern. Almost 80
percent of shipments cross the border by land, the
transportation bureau’s data show.  “There’s been a strong manufacturing renaissance in Mexico
over the last four to five years, and it’s only getting
stronger,” Deaton said in a phone interview.  Producers are seeking to move supply chains closer to end
markets as transportation costs rise and because they’ve seen
how much disasters like  Japan ’s tsunami can set back business,
he said. Cheap manufacturing and a growing number of engineers
also support the renewed pickup, according to Mexican Economy
Minister Bruno Ferrari in an Aug. 19 interview.  Wage Differences  While  China ’s wages are still below those of some other
developing nations, they’ve been increasing at a faster rate.
Chinese manufacturing labor  compensation  rose 106 percent from
2004 to 2008 on a U.S. dollar basis, data from the U.S. Labor
Department show.  Mexican factory  wages  rose 23 percent in the five years
through 2008, and were lower than that year-end peak in 2010.
The Labor Department says the figures for China “are not
directly comparable with estimates for other countries” because
the country’s published statistics on wages often don’t follow
international standards.  “Mexico is eclipsing China as a very attractive source of
imports into the U.S. and what we’re seeing is that labor costs
between Mexico and China are converging,” Kansas City Southern
treasurer Michael Cline said at a Dec. 2 finance conference in
Orlando, Florida.  Foreign Investment  Mexico attracted more than $400 million in investment each
from automakers Yokohama-based Nissan,  Germany ’s  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,
Japan’s  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  and Detroit-based  General Motors Co. (GM) 
in 2011.  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  in August announced plans to build an
$800 million factory in the central Mexican city of Celaya.  DuPont, the world’s biggest maker of titanium-dioxide
pigment, said last year that it will spend $500 million to boost
production of the ingredient used in paints. The Wilmington,
Delaware-based company said some of the increase will come from
an expansion in Altamira, Mexico, around 2014.  As more goods originate in Mexico, Kansas City Southern is
trying to poach a bigger share of the $260 billion worth of
goods that crossed the border by truck in 2010. Auto parts are
second only to grain as the biggest commodity it moves across
the border, and Kansas City Southern expects to get business
through greater shipments of vehicles and shipping containers,
Patrick Ottensmeyer, executive vice president of sales and
marketing, said in a phone interview.  Between 2.5 million and 3 million trucks cross the border
into markets that Kansas City Southern could serve in the
eastern half of the U.S., Ottensmeyer said. The company
currently handles about 1 to 2 percent of that market, he said.  Victoria-Rosenberg Line  The railroad is rehabilitating the Victoria-Rosenberg line,
a 90-mile stretch of track in Texas that offers a more direct
route from across the border. And it has invested in the
Meridian Speedway, which connects the eponymous town in
 Mississippi  with Dallas, along with a logistics center near
Houston.  “We have invested to build a franchise,” Ottensmeyer
said. “We’re having very good conversations with almost every
railroad, and they all want to participate in the growth that’s
happening in  Mexico . They really have to use us to do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  