-- Brown Seeks 7% California Spending Boost
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-01-06T00:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/brown-calls-for-7-california-spending-increase-paid-for-by-higher-taxes.html
California (STOCA1)  Governor  Jerry Brown 
proposed $92.6 billion in spending for the year starting in
July, an increase of about 7 percent, which will count on voters
approving $7 billion of higher taxes in November.  The spending plan foresees a deficit of $9.2 billion
through the next 18 months. Almost half of that is in the
current fiscal year, he said. He called for $4.2 billion in
cuts, mostly to welfare and programs for the poor. If the tax
increase isn’t passed, Brown’s plan would cut another $4.8
billion in support for public schools and community colleges.  “The  state of California (STOCA1)  is a very generous, compassionate
political jurisdiction,” Brown said. “When we have to cut
spending,  that spending is going to come from programs that are
doing a lot of good. It’s not nice. We don’t like it. But the
economy and tax statutes of  California  make just so much money
available.”  Brown, a 73-year-old Democrat, wants to raise income taxes
on individuals making at least $250,000 a year to 10.3 percent
from 9.3 percent, and would boost sales levies to 7.75 percent
from 7.25 percent.  The most-populous state cut aid last year to universities,
shifted responsibility for nonviolent prisoners to counties and
dissolved local redevelopment agencies. Last month, Brown had to
make $1 billion in additional cuts he built into the current
year’s budget after revenue fell below his estimates.  Early Release  Brown had been scheduled to release his general-fund budget
Jan. 10, but was forced to unveil it today after it was
inadvertently posted to the Finance Department’s website.  The spending plan assumes the state will sell about $5.2
billion of municipal bonds through December, said Brown’s
finance chief, Ana Matosantos.  California is  Standard & Poor’s  lowest-rated state, at A-,
six levels below AAA. Moody’s Investment Service grades it A1,
four steps below the top rating, tied with  Illinois (STOIL1)  for the
worst  credit rating  among states.  California debt yields about 1.11 percentage points more
than top-rated municipal debt, compared with a peak  yield spread (165M10Y) 
in the past year of 1.47 percentage points in June, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  