-- BTA Creditors Seek Coupon Payment Before Restructuring Talks
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-01-05T14:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/bta-creditors-demand-coupon-payment-in-appeal-to-kazakh-state.html
Senior bondholders said Kazakh state-
controlled  BTA Bank (BTAS)  must pay a coupon due Jan. 1 and ensure that
its board contains creditor directors before they’ll discuss the
lender’s proposal for a second restructuring in as many years.  A group of unidentified creditors made the demands in a
Dec. 30 letter to BTA, the Kazakh central bank and the  National
Welfare Fund Samruk-Kazyna (SKKZ) , which owns 81.5 percent of the
Almaty-based lender. The letter was sent by New York-based law
firm Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, which represents the bondholders.  “The credibility of  Kazakhstan  in the international
financial markets will be affected by the failure of the bank
and Samruk-Kazyna to honor their obligations in respect of the
bank’s senior notes, as well as the bank’s other debt
obligations,” Dewey & LeBoeuf said on behalf of the creditors.
The  law firm  provided a copy of the letter to Bloomberg News.  BTA’s press office declined by e-mail to comment on the
letter. Yuriy Cherkasov, an Astana-based spokesman for Samruk-
Kazyna, declined to comment immediately, as did Gulnar
Ertlesova, an Almaty-based spokeswoman for the  central bank .  BTA’s dollar-denominated notes due in 2018 rose to 18.76
cents on the dollar at 7:39 p.m. Almaty time, sending the yield
to 68.909 percent. That compares with the record 78.412 percent
the bonds yielded on Dec. 3 and 8.859 percent in October 2010.  Rating Cut  BTA Chairman Anvar Saidenov proposed a second restructuring
in a Dec. 23  letter  to shareholders to stave off bankruptcy. The
bank may not have enough cash to make the next interest payment
due “on certain of its indebtedness,” he said. In September,
the bank said it faced a $150 million coupon payment in January.
BTA will begin talks with investors on the proposal in
 Singapore ,  London  and  New York  on Jan. 10.  A default by BTA is “probably imminent,”  Fitch Ratings 
said on Dec. 23, after the bank said a second restructuring was
“ urgently needed .” Fitch cut BTA’s credit rating by two steps
to C, which signals imminent default. The lender defaulted on
$12 billion of debt in 2009 and won creditor approval for a
restructuring plan last year.  The Kazakh central bank said on Dec. 22 that BTA’s
restructuring proposal is a “sensible measure” given the
lender’s losses and widening capital deficit. Samruk-Kazyna
 supports  BTA’s proposal and backs restructuring part of its
debt, Deputy Chief Executive Officer Aidan Karibzhanov said the
same day.  Government Funding  “They could have avoided restructuring had they
implemented their business plan, managed to reduce their
interest payments on government-related funding and managed to
clean up the bad bank while growing the good bank,” Mariya Gancheva, an analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities International
Plc, said by e-mail.  Under the terms of a  trust deed  that covers the bonds due
in 2018 and 2021 that are mentioned in Dewey & LeBoeuf’s letter,
BTA “fails to pay any amount of principal or interest in
respect of the notes when the same becomes due and payable and
such default continues for a period of 10 business days.”  In the letter, Dewey & LeBoeuf said the bondholder group
expected payment to be made on Jan. 3.  BTA’s nine-person board of directors, which included
creditor representatives Maarten Leo Pronk and Christoph
Schoefboeck, decided last month to call a  shareholders’ meeting 
on Jan. 26 to vote on the restructuring proposal. Pronk later
resigned from the board.  ‘Valid Decisions’  “We understand that one of the two directors nominated on
behalf of creditors has resigned and that the second may wish to
do so,” Dewey & LeBoeuf said in the letter.  It’s “critical that the board of directors includes
creditor directors in accordance with the bank’s charter and the
deed poll executed by Samruk-Kazyna on Aug. 20, 2010, in
connection with the initial restructuring in order for the board
of directors to make any valid decisions,” the law firm said on
behalf of the senior creditors’ group.  The group said Saidenov’s proposal “directly contradicts”
public statements by Samruk-Kazyna and the Kazakh government on
their commitment to support BTA. “In addition, it appears that
there may have been material misstatements in the bank’s
financial statements and other financial information presented
at the time of the initial restructuring.”  Gene Zolotarev , founder and chairman of Geneva-based wealth
management company Maximus Capital SA, said his clients hold a
“sizeable position” in BTA debt, went through the first
restructuring and were “forced to accept highly unfavorable
terms.”  “And now this?” Zolotarev said by e-mail. “I sincerely
hope that these cynical plans to dump this mess on the
bondholders are met with a tsunami of outrage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  