-- Bullard Says Fed ‘Very Close’ to Consensus on Inflation Target: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-01-05T15:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/bullard-says-fed-very-close-to-consensus-on-inflation-target-tom-keene.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said that policy makers at the central
bank may be nearing consensus about clearly stating their goals
for the rate of inflation.  “I think we’re very close to having inflation targeting in
the U.S.,” Bullard said in a Bloomberg Radio interview today.
“This may be the opportunity to get something done that
everyone on the committee can rally around.”  “I think it would come in the form of some kind of
statement from the committee that would name a target but would
also reiterate some of the things we’ve said over the years
about how keeping inflation low and stable contributes to great
economic performance overall,” Bullard said, referring to the
policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee .  Fed officials decided at their December meeting to publish
their own expectations for monetary policy in the future. Those
forecasts will be made public for the first time following the
Fed’s Jan. 24-25 meeting. A subcommittee of Fed policy makers is
working on a draft statement of the central bank’s “longer-run
goals and policy strategy.”  Bullard, in the interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt, said that such a statement
should focus more on inflation than unemployment.  The Fed “should not tie monetary policy decisions
explicitly to the  unemployment rate  because the unemployment
rate is a somewhat mysterious economic variable,” Bullard said,
citing the experience of  Europe  over the last two decades where
unemployment for the region has not fallen below 7 percent.  Gaining Strength  The  U.S. economy  is gaining strength in the new year,
Bullard said.  “We had a surprisingly weak first half for 2011 but a lot
of the temporary factors that kept the first half of 2011 down
reversed in the second half of 2011,” he said. “Now the most
logical prediction for 2012 is to say that that increase will
continue and we’ll see more strength in 2012 than we saw in the
second half of 2011.  Like a GDP growth rate of 3 to 3.5
percent.”  “I think most forecasters are a bit too pessimistic,”
said Bullard, 50, who became president of the St. Louis Fed in
2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  