-- Billionaire Burkle Said in Deal to Buy Relativity Media Stake From Elliott
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-01-06T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/burkle-said-to-be-in-accord-to-acquire-relativity-media-stake-from-elliott.html
Billionaire  Ron Burkle  agreed to buy
Elliott Management Corp.’s minority stake in Relativity Media
LLC, the independent film studio run by Ryan Kavanaugh,
according to two people with knowledge of the situation.  The sale price is in the hundreds of millions of dollars,
said one person, who declined to be identified because the deal
hasn’t been announced. Elliott, a New York-based hedge fund,
will continue to hold a small stake, said one of the people.  The accord ends a fraying partnership with Elliott that
allowed Kavanaugh, Relativity’s 37-year-old chief executive
officer, to build the Los Angeles-based film studio. Elliott
said on Jan. 4 that Michael Joe, who oversaw the Relativity
stake, was leaving as the fund reduces its movie focus.  Kavanaugh has been seeking a buyer for Elliott’s stake
since last year, as well as additional financing.  Last year,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  led a group considering a
$700 million deal for Elliott’s stake in Relativity, the website
TheWrap reported in May.  If completed, the Relativity purchase would become Burkle’s
second entertainment investment in 2012. Y Entertainment Group,
part of his Yucaipa Cos., acquired Artist Group International,
according to a statement yesterday. The New York-based group
books concerts for Billy Joel,  Rod Stewart  and Metallica. The
terms weren’t disclosed.  Burkle, 59, invested $200 million in Relativity in November
to help release the film “Immortals,” TheWrap said. He backed
an unsuccessful bid in 2010 by Harvey and  Bob Weinstein  to buy
the Miramax studio back from Walt Disney Co.  Peter Truell , a spokesman for Elliott Management, the New
York-based hedge fund, had no immediate comment. A Relativity
spokesman declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  