-- Canadian Dollar May Rise to Two-Month High Against Yen, RBS’s Sinche Says
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-01-05T20:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/canadian-dollar-may-rise-to-two-month-high-against-yen-rbs-s-sinche-says.html
Investors should buy the Canadian
dollar against yen as the  U.S. economy  improves and the outlook
for  Japan  dims, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  The Canadian currency, also known as the loonie, may
strengthen to 79.5 yen within three months, according to Robert Sinche, global head of foreign-exchange strategy at RBS in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . The last time the Canadian dollar traded
at that level was on Oct. 31.  “We think the Canadian dollar has some good upside,
particularly versus the yen,” Sinche said in a telephone
interview. He recommends buying the loonie at 75.75 yen and
selling if there is a two-day close below 74.55 yen.  The Canadian dollar was little changed at 75.74 yen at 3:31
p.m. in Toronto. It touched 74.73 yen on Jan. 2, the lowest
level since Nov. 28.  A break of the 100-day moving average, currently at 76.09
yen, and “well-established trend-line resistance” at 76.39 may
occur in the weeks ahead, setting the stage for a test of the
200-day moving average at 79.67, Sinche wrote in a research note
to clients today. Resistance refers to the upper boundary of a
trading range, where orders to sell a currency may be clustered.  The Canadian dollar may get some support from rising
 interest-rate (CABROVER)  expectations if economic data improve, while the
 Bank of Japan  is on “perma-hold,” Sinche said in the phone
interview.  Fair-Value Model  The firm’s fair-value model, which takes into account the
five-year bond yield difference,  oil prices  and the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, also indicates the Canadian dollar has room to
rise against the yen.  The 12-month average of Japan’s  trade balance (JNBPTRD)  is at its
lowest level since at least 1993, and the current-account
surplus is moderating, weakening the outlook for the yen,
according to Sinche. The upside for the currency is “extremely
limited, if any exists at all,” he wrote.  U.S. economic  growth (INJCJC)  momentum bodes well for Canadian
exports and provides a “positive backdrop” for the Canadian
dollar, Sinche wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  