-- Canadian Dollar Falls to One-Week Low on Crude Oil Drop, European Turmoil
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-01-05T22:17:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/canadian-dollar-falls-as-crude-oil-declines-volatility-rises-in-europe.html
Canada ’s dollar slid to a one-week
low versus its U.S. counterpart as crude oil fell and rising
bond yields in  France , Spain and  Italy  signaled renewed concern
some euro-area nations may struggle to fund themselves.  The Canadian currency fell as much as 1 percent before
paring its drop as U.S. stocks gained. Employers added 20,000
jobs in December after net losses in the previous two months,
according to economists before tomorrow’s jobs report.  “There’s lot of euro-zone concerns coming into focus,”
said  Mary Nicola , a currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in  New
York , in a telephone interview. “If you look at what’s been
performing well, the U.S. dollar has come up” against the other
major currencies.  The Canadian currency, also known as the loonie,
depreciated 0.7 percent to C$1.0198 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m.
Toronto time. One Canadian dollar buys 98.06 U.S. cents. It
touched C$1.0226, the weakest level since Dec. 29.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, dropped 1.9
percent to $101.32 a barrel in New York. Canada derives about
half of its export revenue from the sale of raw materials,
including crude.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.3 percent after
earlier falling 0.9 percent. The S&P/TSX Composite Index was
little changed.  Canada’s currency also pared losses after  Statistics Canada 
reported that industrial product prices unexpectedly rose 0.2
percent in November and factory raw-material prices advanced 3.8
percent, more than seven times the median forecast of 11
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Ivey Index  The Ivey purchasing managers’ index rose to 63.5 in
December on a seasonally adjusted basis, following a November
reading of 59.9, the University of Western Ontario business
school said today. The reading is a seven-month  high (IVEYSA) . Readings
of more than 50 indicate purchasing by governments and companies
advanced. The index’s employment measure rose in December to 60,
the highest since February, from 49.4 in the prior month.  Two-year Canadian government bond yields were little
changed at 0.95 percent. The extra yield over U.S. Treasuries
narrowed to 70 basis points, the smallest spread in a week.  Canada will sell C$3.5 billion ($3.4 billion) of bonds
maturing in May 2014 on Jan. 11, the central bank said on its
 website  today.  Prior Auction  The previous auction of two-year debt on Nov. 9 fetched an
average yield of 0.967 percent and a coverage ratio, the amount
bid for every unit of debt sold, of 2.497 times. The average
ratio over the past five two-year auctions is 2.48 times.  Investors should purchase the Canadian dollar against the
yen because the Japanese currency may weaken as “concern grows
about how strong it is overall,” said Kit Juckes, head of
foreign-exchange research at Societe Generale SA, in an e-mail
message. “Speculation of intervention will resurface, and while
2012 may be a repeat of 2011 in the sense that a low-yield world
is not compatible with a much weaker yen, January can see the
yen soften.”  Central banks and governments intervene by arranging
purchases or sales of currencies to influence the  exchange rate .  The loonie dropped 0.2 percent to 75.61 yen today after
earlier falling 0.5 percent. It dropped on Oct. 4 to 72.16 yen,
the lowest level since February 2009.  U.S. Employment  The Canadian currency also pared its decline versus the
greenback after a report from Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP
Employer Services showed stronger-than-forecast growth in
America’s company employment last month.  “The  U.S. economy  is stabilizing and showing signs of
tepid growth,” said Firas Askari, head of  currency trading  at
Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, in an e-mail
message. “That’s good for Canada and the loonie overall.  Europe 
is still a traffic accident in slow motion.”  France sold 7.96 billion euros ($10.2 billion) of debt,
with 10-year borrowing costs rising in the country’s first bond
auction of the year as credit-rating companies threaten to cut
the nation’s AAA grade.  Askari predicted the Canadian dollar will trade in a range
of C$1.0050 and C$1.0400 over the next six weeks.  With gains of 1 percent over the past month, Canada’s
currency is the sixth-best performer after the yen, the
greenback, the dollars of  Australia  and  New Zealand  and the
pound among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The loonie is the worst performer
over 12 months, having dropped 2.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  