-- CapitaMalls Says China Easier Than India to Conduct Development Business
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-01-05T02:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/capitamalls-says-china-easier-than-india-to-conduct-development-business.html
India’s real estate market is tougher
compared with  China  as the pace of doing business in the country
is slower, according to  CapitaMalls Asia Ltd. (CMA)   The retail property unit of CapitaLand Ltd., Southeast
 Asia ’s largest developer, has 2 percent of its assets in India,
said Lim Beng Chee, chief executive officer at CapitaMalls.
China makes up 42 percent of its S$6.67 billion ($5.2 billion)
assets, the biggest after its home market in Singapore.  “Compared to China, we think there is scope for the pace
of doing business in India to be accelerated,” Lim said in an
e-mailed response to queries. “In China, decisions and policies
are centrally driven and as such, the pace of development has
been very rapid. India, on the other hand, has a market economy
and greater decentralization in decision-making, which has
resulted in the pace of development being a bit slower.”  CapitaMalls, which started in China with a Shanghai project
in 2003, now has 42 shopping centers in the country with plans
to open seven this year, and another seven starting in 2013, it
said in an exchange filing yesterday. In  India , the developer
began operations in 2006, and has two properties with plans to
open seven new malls starting next year, it said.  In India, “we note that the government has also put on
hold plans to liberalize the country’s retail sector,” Lim
said.  Retail Protests  The Indian government’s attempts to open up the retail
sector to foreign investment last month have been stymied by
protests from allies and opposition parties. The Congress party-
led government’s legislative agenda has stalled in the past year
after corruption scandals, including one linked to a 2008 sale
of mobile-phone airwaves, sparked protests on the streets and in
parliament.  Asia’s third-largest economy expanded 6.9 percent from a
year earlier, the smallest advance in more than two years,
government data on Nov. 30 showed. The Indian currency is the
worst performer in Asia in the past year as the widest current-
account deficit among the major economies in the region spurred
outflows amid concerns the European debt crisis is deepening.  Property sales have slumped in India’s biggest cities as
the  Reserve Bank  of India  raised (INRPYLD)  borrowing costs 13 times by
3.75 percentage points since March 2010 to cool inflation.
Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao refrained from increasing
the benchmark  repurchase rate (INRPYLD)  on Dec. 16 for the first time in
eight meetings and said Dec. 22 that the pace of growth this
financial year may be slower than an estimated 7.6 percent.  India Retail Fund  CapitaMalls said its investment in India is through its
S$880 million CapitaRetail India Development Fund, which it has
a 45.45 percent stake. The company has partnered with the
Prestige Group, a south India-based developer, for retail
projects in the southern cities, and tied up with Advance India
Projects Ltd. for its developments in North India.  The developer opened two malls in India, one in the
southern city of Bangalore and the other in Udaipur in the north
of the country. The occupancy rates for the two properties
average was 96.1 percent as of September, according to the
exchange filing, in which it called India an “emerging star.”  CapitaMalls will focus on three key markets, which include
 Singapore , China and  Malaysia , Lim said. The developer is
looking for investment opportunities in  Japan , which is an
attractive market for the company, Lim said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  