-- Cattle Beat Gold as Safest Commodity Return in ’11 as Price Swings Widened
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-01-05T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/cattle-beat-gold-as-safest-commodity-return-in-11-as-price-swings-widened.html
Feeder-cattle futures provided the
safest returns of all commodities including gold in the second
half of 2011, when adjusted for volatility, as high feed costs
and drought led to smaller herds and record prices.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Feeder Cattle Total Return Index
rose 2.45 percent in the six months ended Dec. 31 with
volatility of 13.6, for a risk-adjusted return of 0.18 percent,
the highest per unit of price swings among 24 commodities
tracked by S&P, data compiled by Bloomberg show. While gold
gained more, touching a record $1,923.70 an ounce on Sept. 6,
the higher volatility of the metal’s total-return index left its
adjusted gain at 0.147 percent.  Commodities rose to a 29-month high in April before
 Europe ’s widening debt crisis sent the GSCI Total Return Index
down 24 percent by October, fueled by price swings that left
only seven raw materials with positive risk-adjusted returns. As
gold futures fell 3.4 percent in the fourth quarter, its first
drop since 2008, feeder cattle reached a record last month as
the U.S. herd shrank and beef exports surged.  Cattle were “one of the best-performing out of any
commodity last year, and the reason for that, of course, was the
herd liquidation,” Patricia Mohr, an economist and commodity
specialist at ScotiaBank Group in Toronto, said in a telephone
interview. “At the end of last year, gold lost some ground
because of the renewed strength in the  U.S. dollar ,” and
volatility increased as economic concern mounted, she said.  Beef Supply  Feeder cattle are about a year-old and weigh 500 pounds
(227 kilograms) to 800 pounds when they are sold to feedlots,
where they eat mostly corn for several months until they reach
about 1,200 pounds and are shipped to beef processors.  The S&P GSCI Live Cattle Total Return  Index (SPGCLCTR) , which tracks
the price of slaughter-ready animals, advanced 2.39 percent in
the second half of 2011, with volatility of 15.4 that gave it a
risk-adjusted return of 0.155 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That was ahead of the ratio of price to
volatility for gold, which ranked third among GSCI commodities.  Cattle prices may continue to “hold up quite well” during
2012 as beef demand is improving globally, while supplies will
be slow to rebound, because it takes the animals about two years
from birth to reach slaughter-ready weight, Mohr said.  The worst drought ever in  Texas , the biggest U.S. producer,
destroyed pastures last year and forced ranchers to cull their
herds. The U.S. cattle population was 92.582 million head at the
start of 2011, the smallest for that date since 1958, government
data show. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  will release its
2012 herd estimate on Jan. 27.  Feeder-Cattle Rally  Feeder-cattle futures on the  Chicago  Mercantile Exchange
reached a record $1.508 a pound on Dec. 28, with the most-
actively traded contract surging 20 percent in 2011. Slaughter-
ready cattle futures, also traded in Chicago, climbed to a
record $1.25675 a pound on Nov. 10, finishing up 12 percent for
the year.  “You’ve got the whole issue of the expanding middle class
around the world and increasing protein in diets, so that’s
going to translate into more grain consumption, and ultimately
that has put support under beef,” said  Sal Gilbertie , the
president of Teucrium Trading LLC, which sponsors exchange-
traded funds for commodities ranging from natural gas to corn.
“Food trumps jewelry. The last thing people will ever do is let
themselves be hungry.”  The price gains for both cattle contracts outpaced the 10
percent advance last year for gold, which posted an 11th
straight annual gain.  Negative Return  The S&P’s Total Return Index of 24 commodities had a risk-
adjusted return in the second half of minus 0.159 percent, after
the gauge dropped 3.78 percent during the period with volatility
of 23.772. The S&P GSCI Silver Total Return Index, which
calculates the return to investors of holding a position in the
commodity, was the most-volatile during the second half of 2011
at 55.59, followed by nickel and lead.  Commodity investments may become more volatile in 2012 as
central banks grapple with how to support economies globally,
while demand for raw materials including industrial metals and
energy may weaken if Europe enters a recession, said  Michael Pento , the president of Pento Portfolio Strategies in Holmdel,
 New Jersey .  Some members of the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee are
leaning toward additional quantitative easing to support the
economy, minutes from the group’s November meeting showed. Euro-
region economic confidence probably dropped to the lowest in
more than two years in December, according to a Bloomberg
survey.  “Volatility is going to be off the charts in 2012 for
precious metals and commodities in general,” Pento said.
“We’ll have very, very slow growth worldwide, and we’ll see
stagflation persisting in the U.S. and Europe and in other
countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  