-- Chilean Peso Weakens as Europe Concerns Sap Appetite for Risk
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-01-05T14:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/chilean-peso-weakens-as-europe-concerns-sap-appetite-for-risk.html
Chile ’s peso declined for the first
time in six days as fresh concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will
deepen pulled down copper prices and reduced demand for higher-
yielding assets such as emerging-market currencies.  The peso slid 0.2 percent to 512.38 per  U.S. dollar  as of
11:41 a.m. in Santiago from 511.24 yesterday.  Copper, which accounts for more than half of Chile’s
exports, fell as much as 1.3 percent in  New York . Stocks and the
euro fell on concern Europe’s debt crisis will spread after
borrowing costs rose at French and Hungarian bond auctions.  “Copper’s weaker, the euro is falling and stocks are
falling, so there’s strong external depreciative pressure,”
said  Osvaldo Cruz , an economist at Banco de Credito e
Inversiones in Santiago.  Economic activity in Chile expanded 4 percent in November,
the central bank said today, matching the median forecast of 15
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The government continues to
target 5 percent growth this year, although the goal now appears
“harder” to achieve, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said
today. Deceleration is still in range of previous estimates, he
said on a conference call from Paris.  The National Statistics Institute will publish consumer
price inflation for December tomorrow.  The inflation forwards market is pricing in an annual price
rise of 4.1 percent in December, faster than the upper limit of
the central bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent tolerance range.
Forwards suggest inflation will then slow to reach the bank’s 3
percent target in May, according to Bloomberg calculations.  Larrain said today that a cut in  interest rates  would be
“reasonable” as growth slows. Policy makers considered a
quarter-point rate cut to 5 percent on Dec. 13, before voting
unanimously to keep borrowing costs unchanged, the minutes of
the meeting showed. Larrain participates in the central bank’s
monetary policy committee, without having the right to vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  