-- China Will Boost Consumption Amid Global Slowdown, Commerce Minister Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-05T16:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/china-to-boost-consumption-amid-global-slowdown-chen-says-1-.html
China  will roll out measures to boost
consumption this year as it strives to meet challenges posed by
a global slowdown, Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said.  The government is studying policies to encourage spending
on energy-saving products, and will take other measures
including the promotion of online shopping and tourism, Chen
told the ministry’s annual works conference, according to a
 statement  posted on its website yesterday.  Policy makers have cut taxes to spur consumption and help
sustain growth in the world’s second-largest economy as  Europe ’s
debt crisis clouds the outlook for exports and a property
crackdown damps investment at home. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said Jan.
3 that business conditions may be “relatively difficult” this
quarter.  “Chinese policy makers will be under tremendous pressure
to speed up rebalancing reforms and to roll out pro-consumption
policies in 2012,” Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based economist with
Societe Generale SA, said in a note this week.  Chen’s speech didn’t specify any measures, although the
 China Daily  said Jan. 4 they may include subsidies for purchases
of vehicles and household appliances. The newspaper cited former
Assistant Commerce Minister Huang Hai.  “While the world economy will recover slowly, downward
pressures have increased markedly,” Chen said, according to the
statement. “The situation is serious and complicated.”  Narrowing Surplus  The ministry will promote steady export growth this year
and expand trade with  emerging markets , Chen said. Export tax
rebate policies will be kept “basically stable” and repayment
of rebates will be speeded up, he said.  China’s  trade surplus (CNFRCBAL)  may have narrowed to about $160
billion last year, or about 2 percent of gross domestic product,
the ministry said in a separate statement yesterday. That
compared with $181.5 billion, or 3.1 percent, of GDP in 2010,
according to Chinese government data.  Export growth (CNFREXPY)  in November slowed to 13.8 percent, the
weakest pace since gains resumed in December 2009 after the
global financial crisis, excluding distortions caused by the
Lunar New Year holiday. Retail sales rose a more-than-estimated
17.3 percent in the same month.  The ministry will encourage companies to invest and make
acquisitions overseas, Chen said. China will also increase
imports of energy products, raw materials, technologically
advanced equipment, key components, and consumption goods this
year, he said.  The government will “steadily” open the education and
medical services industries to overseas investors, and will set
up a system to review and monitor acquisitions by foreign
companies that may affect the country’s security, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  