-- China-South Korea Summit to Focus on Free Trade Accord, North’s Success
-- B y   S h i n h y e   K a n g   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-01-06T01:38:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/china-s-korea-summit-to-focus-on-free-trade-north-succession.html
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak 
and Chinese President  Hu Jintao  will consider a free-trade
agreement at a summit next week that will also include
discussion of North Korea’s leadership succession.  “Both sides basically share the view that a free trade
agreement between  South Korea  and China is needed,” South
Korean Foreign Minister Kim Sung Hwan said at a briefing in
Seoul yesterday. Lee’s three-day trip begins Jan. 9, and he and
Hu will also discuss how to “work together for the sake of
peace and stability on the Korean peninsula,” his office said
in a statement.  The summit takes place three weeks after the death of North
Korean dictator  Kim Jong Il  and the ascension of his son Kim Jong Un as leader. The regime, which relies on  China  to prop up
its economy, said Dec. 30 that relations with South Korea won’t
improve as long as Lee is president and threatened a “sea of
fire” for his administration.  China has failed to persuade North Korea to return to six-
nation negotiations aimed at getting it to abandon its nuclear
weapons program. The U.S., South Korea and  Japan  have urged the
Chinese to put more pressure on the government in Pyongyang,
which said in November it was making progress in building a
light-water atomic reactor and in producing low-enriched
uranium.  “Mutual Interest”  “China and South Korea have a mutual interest in peace and
stability on the Korean peninsula, but may disagree on how  North
Korea  reforms, opens up and denuclearizes to achieve that,”
said Yoon Deok Min, a professor at South Korea’s state-run
Institute of  Foreign Affairs  and National Security. “The North
Korean variable is expected to be isolated from the FTA
discussion, because China and South Korea’s economic relations
are too important to both to jeopardize.”  Tensions have risen since Lee reversed his predecessor’s
stance of engagement with North Korea, and 50 South Koreans died
in attacks in 2010. Lee said yesterday his government “truly
values” North Korea and isn’t seeking its demise.  “North Korea should quickly abandon the anachronistic idea
of reunifying under communism,” Lee said, according to a
statement on the president’s website. “We don’t seek immediate
reunification through absorption and do not aim nor try to make
the North collapse.”  The two countries technically remain at war since the
 Korean War  ended in 1953 without a peace treaty.  ‘Further Reinforce’  North  Korea  late yesterday responded to Lee’s offer of “a
window of opportunity” for dialogue with a vow to “further
reinforce” its status as a nuclear-weapons state.  “As long as the enemy is persistent in his moves for
aggression, the DPRK will further reinforce the position of the
nuclear-weapons state to protect its dignity and sovereignty,”
the Committee for Peaceful Reunification of Korea said in a
statement carried by the official Korean Central News Agency.
DPRK is an acronym of North Korea’s formal name, the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea.  Hu may boost aid to North Korea to strengthen Kim Jong Un’s
hand in consolidating power after the death of his father. China
is seeking to prevent instability that could prompt an influx of
refugees crossing over the 880-mile (1,416-kilometer) border it
shares with North Korea.  China accounted for 79 percent of North Korea’s 2009
 international trade (CHEXKP) , according to the Seoul-based Korea Trade-
Investment Promotion Agency. China provides almost 90 percent of
energy imports and 45 percent of the country’s food, the New
York-based Council on Foreign Relations said in a 2009 report.  Lee will also meet with Chinese Prime Minister  Wen Jiabao ,
in a visit that underscores deepening economic ties between the
two countries. Exports to China, South Korea’s largest market,
increased 16 percent to $129.8 billion in 2011 from a year ago,
according to government data.  China hopes Lee’s visit will elevate the two countries’
strategic partnership “to a new level,” Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hong Lei said at a briefing yesterday in Beijing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shinhye Kang in  Seoul  at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  