-- CIBC Leads Canadian Banks for Mergers, Ousting Goldman Sachs
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-01-05T05:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/cibc-leads-canadian-banks-for-mergers-ousting-goldman-sachs.html
CIBC (CM)  led Canada’s investment banks in
advising on Canadian mergers last year, ousting foreign firms
such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley from the
top-three spots for the first time in at least a dozen years.  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s investment bank worked
on 38 deals valued at $36.1 billion, including advising Equinox
Minerals Ltd. on its sale to Barrick Gold Corp., according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ’s BMO Capital
Markets was second, followed by  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ’s  RBC
Capital Markets .  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was fourth and Toronto-
Dominion Bank was fifth.  Canadian companies were involved in 2,300 announced
takeovers valued at $177.5 billion last year, down 11 percent
from almost $200 billion in 2010, according to Bloomberg data.
The figures are as of yesterday and subject to change as more
deals are recorded.  “It was a reasonable year for M&A activity, but certainly
below where we’ve seen in terms of a peak in the market,”  Mike Boyd ,  CIBC (CM) ’s head of mergers and acquisitions, said in an
interview from Toronto. “I expect we’ll see a stronger year for
M&A in 2012.”  Last year was the first time in at least a dozen years that
Canadian banks blocked foreign firms from a top-three spot for
advising on Canadian takeovers, Bloomberg data show. In 2010,
New York-based Goldman Sachs ranked first, followed by Zurich-
based UBS AG and London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC) , with BMO Capital
Markets in fourth. Morgan Stanley, based in  New York , ranked No.
1 in 2009.  CIBC Surge  Canada’s dominance may be in part due to an increase in
mining deals last year, said Peter Buzzi, head of mergers in
Canada with RBC Capital, a unit of Canada’s largest bank.  “U.S. firms are less active on the mining side on a
relative basis to the Canadian firms because it’s never been a
sector in the U.S. that’s been significant,” said Buzzi, 51,
whose firm moved up from sixth spot in 2010. “That’s really one
industry where the Canadian investment banks dominate
globally.”  Andrea Rachman , a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, declined to comment. Pen Pendleton,
a spokesman for  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the sixth-largest U.S. bank,
also declined to comment.  Barrick Takeover  RBC advised Barrick on its $7.81 billion takeover of
Equinox, Canada’s biggest mining deal in 2011 and the second-
largest takeover involving a Canadian company last year. Other
mining deals in 2011 included Cliffs Natural Resources Inc.’s
$4.48 billion agreement to buy Montreal-based Consolidated
Thompson Iron Mines Ltd., and Eldorado Gold Corp.’s agreement
last month to buy European Goldfields Ltd. for about $2.54
billion.  CIBC, the top adviser in 2008, jumped to No. 1 from ninth
in 2010, according to Bloomberg data. BMO Capital Markets, a
unit of Canada’s fourth-biggest bank, cracked the top three for
the first time in more than a decade.  “We achieved record M&A revenues in our business last year
in  Canada  and in the  United States ,” William Butt, 49, head of
global investment and corporate banking at BMO Capital, said in
an interview in Toronto. “Our overall M&A revenues are the
highest we’ve ever seen in our firm.”  Two of Canada’s three largest announced deals involved
Canadian pension funds, with Canada Pension Plan Investment
Board the country’s most acquisitive firm. Canada Pension, the
country’s second-biggest retirement fund, was involved in 19
deals valued at $15.8 billion, including a bank-and-pension
fund-led bid to buy Toronto Stock Exchange owner TMX Group Inc.
and the sale of Skype Technologies SA to Microsoft Corp.  Skype Sale  The $8.5 billion Skype sale in October was Canada’s largest
deal, according to Bloomberg. Canada Pension, which more than
tripled its $300 million Skype investment in two years, was
among a group of Skype investors that included U.S. private
equity firm Silver Lake Management LLC.  Canada’s third-largest deal was the $5.73 billion takeover
of Kinetic Concepts Inc. by Apax Partners LLP, along with Canada
Pension and Public Sector Pension Investment Board, which closed
in November.  “We’re going to continue to see private equity funds and
pension funds be more active, given the strength in the debt
markets and the relatively lower cost of capital for them,”
said Boyd of CIBC, a unit of Canada’s fifth-biggest bank.  Top Acquirers  The average disclosed deal size was $132 million and the
average premium was 30 percent, according to Bloomberg data.
Canadian companies were the top acquirers in their own country,
representing $118.6 billion of the deals, followed by U.S.
firms, which invested $51 billion in Canadian companies, the
data show.  Mergers and acquisitions may pick up in 2012, with more
deals and larger transactions because corporate balance sheets
are in “good shape” and capital to fund takeovers is available
at a low cost, Boyd said.  “The Canadian economy is still performing relatively well,
despite the challenges in  Europe  and elsewhere,” Boyd said.
“We’re continuing to see demand in interest for the resource
sectors in Canada, both mining and oil and gas.”  This year will be “a strong year” though not a record for
Canadian takeovers, Andre Hidi, head of global mergers and
acquisitions for BMO Capital Markets, said in an interview.  “The sectors that have been busiest over the last couple
of years are, quite frankly, likely to continue, and that’s
mining and metals,” Hidi, 51, said. “There’s probably going to
be more breadth across sectors including financial services,
media, consumer, retail, industrial and power.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  