-- Citigroup, MF Global, Gupta, UBS, Chevron in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-01-05T12:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/citigroup-mf-global-gupta-ubs-chevron-pfizer-in-court-news.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Singapore unit sued
Hong Kong-based hedge fund manager Raghavendran Rajaraman,
seeking to recoup $1.03 million in trading losses the bank says
he incurred after gold fell from a record high in September.  Rajaraman had $19.2 million worth of gold in his account on
Sept. 23 which the bank sold, along with other collateral, on
Sept. 26 “in the face of a rapidly deteriorating market,”
leaving a $1 million shortfall, according to a Nov. 18 lawsuit
filed with the Singapore High Court. The first closed hearing is
scheduled for Jan. 27.  Gold plunged 11 percent in September, the most since
October 2008, after futures reached a record $1,923.70 an ounce
on Sept. 6. The bank liquidated Rajaraman’s account after it
reached a so-called forced sell level and got his authorization,
according to court papers. Gold for February delivery in  New
York  was at $1,601.30 an ounce at 9:55 a.m. Singapore time.  Rajaraman works with hedge fund 3 Degrees Asset Management
and was a currency options trader with Citigroup in Singapore
until 2007, according to the lawsuit.  He hasn’t filed his defense and didn’t return three calls
to his mobile-phone. Richard Healy, Rajaraman’s lawyer at
Oldham, Li & Nie, declined to comment.  “We intend to pursue the case and it’s inappropriate for
us to comment further,” said Citigroup’s Singapore-based
spokesman Adam Abdur Rahman.  Citigroup breached its agreement by closing his account
without prior notice, according to an Oct. 7 letter from Oldham,
Li & Nie to the bank’s lawyers including William Ong at Allen &
Gledhill LLP.  “As a direct consequence of the bank’s breach,” Rajaraman
suffered a $1.7 million loss, representing his collateral,
according to the letter. He incurred a further $1.03 million
loss as the bank prematurely liquidated the account instead of
waiting for 24 hours after the account reached the force-sell
level, Rajaraman’s lawyers said in the letter.  The case is Citibank Singapore Ltd. v Raghavendran
Rajaraman S826/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  Life Partners Sued by SEC for Fraud in Life Settlement Deals  Life Partners Holdings Inc. (LPHI)  and three top executives are
facing U.S. regulatory claims that they defrauded shareholders
by systematically understating risk related to the firm’s
purchases of life insurance policies.  Jan. 3 the Securities and Exchange Commission said Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Brian D. Pardo, President and
General Counsel R. Scott Peden and Chief Financial Officer David
M. Martin participated in a scheme that misled investors about
the firm’s profit potential.  “The senior-most executives at Life Partners concealed
significant risks to the business, manipulated financial
statements with improper accounting, and knowingly profited from
their misconduct by executing insider trades based on
information that was not available to the public,” David
Woodcock, director of the SEC’s Fort Worth Regional Office, said
in a statement Jan. 3.  The company, which buys rights to death benefits from
policyholders in exchange for lump-sum payments, knowingly
underestimated life expectancies used in transactions from 2007
to 2011, the SEC said in its  statement . Pardo sold $11.5 million
of stock and Peden sold shares valued at $300,000 while privy to
inside information, the agency said.  “It is very disappointing that the SEC has chosen to
pursue litigation over issues that we believe have no merit and
financial presentation issues that we do not believe are
material,” Pardo, who owns more than 50 percent of the firm’s
shares, said in a statement. “We intend to vigorously defend
ourselves against these meritless claims.”  Calls to the company seeking further comment Jan. 3 and
yesterday weren’t returned. Peden didn’t respond to a telephone
message left at a residential listing under his name in Woodway,
Texas. A listing couldn’t be found for Martin.  For more, click here.  Quanta Sues AMD Over Microchips for Notebook Computers  Quanta Computer Inc. (2382) , the world’s largest contract maker of
notebook computers, sued  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  for breach
of contract, alleging the chipmaker sold defective products.  AMD and its ATI Technologies Inc. unit sold chips that
didn’t meet heat tolerances and were unfit for particular
purposes, Taoyuan, Taiwan-based Quanta claimed Jan. 3 in a
federal court filing in San Jose, California. The chips were
used in notebooks Quanta made for  NEC Corp. (6701)  and caused the
computers to malfunction, according to the filing.  “Quanta has suffered significant injury to prospective
revenue and profits,” the company said in the complaint. Quanta
is seeking a jury trial and damages, according to court papers.  “AMD disputes the allegations in Quanta’s complaint and
believes they are without merit,” Sunnyvale, California-based
AMD’s spokesman, Michael Silverman, said in an e-mailed message.  “AMD is aware of no other customer reports of the alleged
issues with the AMD chip that Quanta used, which AMD no longer
sells,” Silverman said. “In fact, Quanta has itself
acknowledged to AMD that it used the identical chip in large
volumes in a different computer platform that it manufactured
for NEC without such issues.”  The case is Quanta v. Advanced Micro Devices, 12-cv-12,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Halliburton Denies Destroying Evidence in BP Oil Spill Case  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  denied BP Plc’s accusation that engineers
destroyed testing evidence to keep it from being used in
litigation over the Gulf of Mexico rig blast that triggered the
worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history.  BP and Halliburton are suing each other over whose actions
caused the Macondo well to explode off the Louisiana coast in
April 2010. BP asked U.S. District Judge Carl Barbier of New
Orleans to sanction Halliburton last month, alleging the
cementing services firm hid or destroyed unfavorable testing
evidence.  Halliburton said in a filing yesterday that engineers
followed company policy to discard the testing results and
materials because the tests were “performed on lab stock that
remains available today.” Halliburton also said tests on cement
samples like those used in the well showed the formula was
stable.  Halliburton’s engineers turned over notes and testified
under oath that tests showed “a stable foam was observed after
the slurry was conditioned -- a critical fact that BP continues
to ignore,” Donald Godwin, Halliburton’s lead trial lawyer,
said in a filing in federal court in New Orleans.  “We stand by our motions and the arguments we made in
prior papers,”  Daren Beaudo , a spokesman for BP, said in an e-
mail in response to Halliburton’s filing.  BP and Halliburton have been fighting about the cement job
Halliburton provided to seal the well against leaks, based on
BP’s design specifications. Halliburton used an innovative
foaming cement formulation that critics claim wasn’t right for
the Macondo formation. As a result, BP claims the contractor’s
work was flawed, while Halliburton maintains BP provided faulty
information.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  MF Global Plaintiffs Compete to Lead Lawsuit Against Corzine  Plaintiffs including funds and retirement systems are
competing to lead a lawsuit against Jon Corzine,  MF Global
Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s former chief executive officer, over the
collapse of the commodity brokerage.  Corzine is the defendant in at least nine lawsuits before a
federal judge in Manhattan that seek compensation for losses
from the company’s bankruptcy, according to court papers.  U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  has been combining the
cases into one, saying they make similar claims that Corzine and
other company officials made misleading statements about MF
Global’s financial condition before its Oct. 31 Chapter 11
filing.  Banyon Capital Master Fund Ltd., Virginia and Arkansas
retirement systems and the Building Trades United Pension Trust
Fund all filed separate requests in court yesterday to serve as
lead plaintiff. Yesterday was the deadline for such requests,
according to court papers.  Andrew Levander, a lawyer for Corzine, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the filings.  The Virginia Retirement System, which wants to lead the
suit together with Canada’s Province of Alberta, said in a
filing the two together lost more than $19 million on MF Global
stock and debt.  They asked court approval of their hiring law firms
 Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossman LLP (142230L) , whose cases include a
shareholder suit against  BP Plc (BP/)  directors and managers, and
 Labaton Sucharow LLP , as co-lead counsel for investors suing
Corzine.  Corzine, the former governor of New Jersey, and senior MF
Global officers touted the company’s internal financial controls
and liquidity levels in statements that were “materially
misleading or untrue,” according to a Nov. 3 complaint filed in
Manhattan federal court by Joseph DeAngelis on behalf of himself
and other MF Global shareholders.  DeAngelis also named Henri Steenkamp, the New York-based
company’s chief financial officer, and  Bradley Abelow , its
president.  MF Global filed for bankruptcy listing $41 billion in
assets after making bets on European sovereign debt and getting
margin calls. The holding company is the parent of a futures
brokerage that is being liquidated in a separate court
proceeding.  The main case is DeAngelis v. Corzine, 11-cv-7866, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Rajat Gupta Seeks to Have Some Insider-Trading Counts Thrown Out  Rajat Gupta, the former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director
charged with insider trading as part of the Galleon Group LLC
probe, asked a judge to dismiss some of the counts against him.  The government’s indictment focuses on two instances in
which the U.S. said Galleon co-founder Raj Rajaratnam traded on
information he allegedly received from Gupta, though it
“improperly uses those two instances to create five purportedly
separate substantive securities-fraud charges,” according to
Gupta’s filing in federal court in Manhattan.  “The five substantive securities fraud counts in the
indictment, because they stem from just two purported unlawful
acts, repeatedly charge what are, at most, two alleged
offenses,” according to the filing Jan. 3. Gupta asked the
judge to consolidate the charges or order prosecutors to choose
which to pursue.  In a separate filing Jan. 3, Gupta asked that prosecutors
be barred from using wiretap evidence. The government intends to
present a “circumstantial case” based on the timing of alleged
telephone calls between Gupta and Rajaratnam and recordings the
U.S. obtained by wiretapping Rajaratnam’s cell phone, according
to the filing.  Gupta’s lawyers said the court’s rejection of a similar bid
by Rajaratnam to bar the intercepts as evidence during his trial
was incorrect. Federal laws restricting use of wiretaps don’t
permit them in investigations of suspected insider trading,
according to Gupta’s filing.  Gupta, who also sat on the board of Procter & Gamble Co.
and led McKinsey & Co., was indicted by a federal grand jury in
October on five counts of securities fraud and one count of
conspiracy to commit securities fraud for passing inside
information to Rajaratnam. Gupta also faces a lawsuit filed by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Ellen Davis, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in Manhattan, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment
on the filings after regular business hours yesterday.  Rajaratnam, 54, was convicted in May of directing the
biggest insider-trading ring in a generation. His 11-year prison
term was the longest sentence ever handed down for such a crime
and the culmination of a four-year nationwide probe of insider
trading.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  CFTC Asks Court to Dismiss Challenge to Position Limits Rule  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  asked a
federal appeals court to dismiss a challenge by two Wall Street
groups to its rule that limits commodity speculation, one of the
financial industry’s highest-profile efforts to weaken last
year’s Dodd-Frank law.  The CFTC filed its request yesterday in the U.S. Court of
Appeals in Washington, arguing the appeals court doesn’t have
jurisdiction to consider the lawsuit. The agency said that the
district court must first consider a challenge to the rule.  The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc. 
and  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association  filed
lawsuits in two federal courts in Washington last month, arguing
that the CFTC used a flawed analysis of Dodd-Frank when it
decided to impose the restrictions. The associations also said
the CFTC failed to properly weigh the rule’s costs and benefits.  In response to questions from the district court judge, the
groups said last month they didn’t oppose putting the district
court case on hold while the appeals court considers the
challenge.  The case is International Swaps and Derivatives Association
v. CFTC, 11-01491, is U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia (Washington).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Stanford’s Defense Experts Paid, Ordered to Remain on Case  R. Allen Stanford’s defense experts were ordered to
continue defending the former financier in a $7 billion
investment fraud case by a U.S. appellate court that also agreed
to pay their back wages, according to court filings.  All of Stanford’s non-attorney experts quit last week after
appellate judges controlling the former billionaire’s taxpayer-
funded defense budget said they would limit and withhold the
experts’ compensation until after conclusion of his trial, set
to begin Jan. 23 in Houston federal court.  “It would be neither feasible nor economical to obtain a
replacement to perform the services Marcum was expected by
counsel to provide,” Circuit Judge Edith Jones, the chief of
the U.S. Court of Appeals in New Orleans, said in a letter
yesterday to Marcum LLP, one of the expert contractors that
resigned last week from Stanford’s defense team.  Jones issued similar orders and agreements to pay overdue
invoices to two other expert-services contractors to keep them
working on Stanford’s defense. Accumyn Consulting and the Worley
Group had also resigned last week over non-payment of bills
dating back to September, according to court filings.  Ali Fazel, Stanford’s lead criminal-defense attorney, said
the defense was hampered by the resignation of all expert-
services contractors on Dec. 30, after the appellate court
balked at paying their bills. Jones, in her letters yesterday,
said billings by Marcum and Accumyn feature “hourly rates
significantly in excess of the rates payable under the Criminal
Justice Act to even the most experienced attorneys.”  Stanford, 61, has been in custody as a flight risk since he
was indicted in June 2009 on charges of defrauding investors
through allegedly bogus certificates of deposit at his Antigua-
based Stanford International Bank. He denies any wrongdoing.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  Ex-UBS Wealth CEO Failed to Act on Risk Failures, FSA Says  John Pottage, the former chief executive officer of  UBS
AG (UBSN) ’s wealth-management unit in the U.K., didn’t heed warning
signs that risk controls in the division were ineffective before
an unauthorized trading loss was discovered, the U.K.’s finance
regulator said.  Pottage, now a senior executive at the bank’s headquarters
in Zurich, should have started a review of controls after a
client-money breach, a payment fraud, and other failings were
discovered, the Financial Services Authority said in court
papers. He also should have done an “adequate initial
assessment” of the unit’s controls after becoming CEO, a lawyer
for the FSA said at a trial in  London  yesterday.  Pottage’s actions constituted a regulatory breach, FSA
lawyer Andrew Hochhauser said in the first day of closing
arguments in the case, where the ex-CEO is challenging a 100,000
pound ($156,000) fine. The case is the first time the regulator
has sought to penalize an executive for oversight failures.  Pottage said in court papers he worked to improve systems
and controls in the unit when he started as CEO in September
2006 and doesn’t deserve a fine. Pottage, who moved to Zurich
amid the FSA probe, denies the charge that he should’ve acted
sooner than he did to review weaknesses in the systems and
controls, and “is supported in that denial by UBS,” his
lawyers have said.  Pottage testified during the three-week hearing that he was
“confused” by the regulator’s attempt to fine him and that he
thought it didn’t understand his role at the bank. He said
during a meeting with the regulator in 2009 that he was
“concerned that the interviewer thought the CEO was a fully
empowered individual.”  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Chevron Bid to Dismiss $18 Billion Award Rejected in  Ecuador   Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s effort to overturn an $18 billion judgment
against it was rejected by an Ecuador appeals court in a lawsuit
alleging the company is responsible for chemicals spilled in the
Amazon River basin more than 20 years ago.  The “adverse ruling” upholding the lower-court judgment
was issued by a panel of three judges in the Provincial Court of
Justice of Sucumbios in Lago Agrio, Ecuador, Chevron said in an
e-mailed statement Jan. 3.  Chevron appealed a February ruling that it was responsible
for chemical-laden wastewater dumped in jungle land from 1964 to
about 1992 by Texaco Inc., which Chevron acquired in 2001.  The “decision is another glaring example of the
politicization and corruption of Ecuador’s judiciary that has
plagued this fraudulent case from the start,” Chevron said in
its statement. The company “does not believe that the Ecuador
ruling is enforceable in any court that observes the rule of
law.”  The appeals court ratified the February ruling “in all of
its parts, including the conviction for moral reparation or its
alternative and costs,” according to the decision.  Chevron is still reviewing the ruling and hasn’t decided
what it will do next, Kent Robertson, a spokesman for the San
Ramon, California-based company, said Jan. 3 in a phone
interview. He said the company “has a procedural right to seek
clarification and amplification from the court that issued this
ruling.”  Chevron can also appeal the decision to the next level of
Ecuador’s judiciary, Robertson said.  Karen Hinton, a spokeswoman for lawyers representing the
Ecuador residents who sued Chevron, said in an e-mailed
statement, “The decision by an independent appellate court is
yet further confirmation of Chevron’s extraordinary greed and
criminal misconduct in Ecuador.”  For more, click here.  Pfizer Must Pay $45 Million in Prempro Cases, Court Rules  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  must pay more than $45 million in damages to
two women who blamed the company’s menopause drugs for their
breast cancers, an appeals court ruled.  Connie Barton and Donna Kendall, two Illinois women who
sued Pfizer units Wyeth and Pharmacia & Upjohn over their
menopause medications, deserved both compensatory and punitive
damages over the companies’ handling of the drugs, a panel of
the Pennsylvania Superior Court ruled Jan. 3.  “We are very disappointed with the court’s decisions in
these cases and continue to believe there was no basis in fact
or law for the jury verdicts,” Chris Loder, a spokesman for New
York-based Pfizer, said in an e-mailed statement. Pfizer
officials will ask the Pennsylvania Supreme Court to review the
lower court’s findings, he said.  More than 6 million women took Prempro and related
menopause drugs to treat symptoms including hot flashes and mood
swings before a 2002 study highlighted their links to cancer. At
one point, Pfizer and its units faced more than 10,000 lawsuits
over the medications.  “This is a great way to start 2012 for these two brave
women,”  Zoe Littlepage , one of Barton’s lawyers, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. Under the appellate ruling,
Barton would get a total of $11.2 million while Kendall would
get $34.3 million, Littlepage said.  At the height of the litigation, Pfizer faced more than
10,000 claims that its menopause drugs caused breast cancer,
according to lawyers for former users. Those lawsuits included
more than 8,000 cases consolidated in federal court in Arkansas
and suits in state courts in Pennsylvania, Nevada and Minnesota.  The company has begun settling some suits and has set aside
$840 million so far to resolve cases, officials said in
November. Pfizer has resolved about 46 percent of the pending
Prempro suits, officials said.  The case is Barton v. Wyeth Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
040406301, Court of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County,
Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  For more, click here.  Ex-LyondellBasell Employee Gets 7-Year Sentence in Kickbacks  Ex- LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB)  employee Jonathan Paul
Barnes was sentenced to seven years in prison on fraud and
money-laundering charges in a kickback scheme involving oil
shipments to the company’s Texas refinery.  Barnes, 56, was sentenced yesterday in Houston federal
court by U.S. District Judge Sim Lake, who also ordered Barnes
to pay $82 million in restitution, federal prosecutors said in a
statement.  Barnes pleaded guilty in March to accepting about $20
million in kickbacks while managing marine chartering for
Lyondell’s Houston refinery from 2007 to early 2010.  He acknowledged running a scheme that overcharged
Lyondell’s Houston subsidiary roughly $82 million on oil
shipments from Venezuela, according to court papers. He was
assisted by two oil traders, Bernard Langley, 54, of the U.K.,
and Clyde Meltzer, 65, of Houston and Livingston, N.J. Both have
pleaded guilty to funneling kickbacks to Barnes and are awaiting
sentencing in April.  “The United States has already seized assets purchased
with proceeds from the kickback fraud that are valued at
approximately $20 million,” Kenneth Magidson, the U.S. Attorney
for Houston, said in the statement.  The seized assets included real estate in Houston, Florida
and upstate New York and “more than 15 luxury and classic
vehicles including a 1957 Cadillac once owned by Frank Sinatra,
a boat and numerous pieces of high-end jewelry,” Magidson said.  “The kickback scheme was uncovered during an internal
audit, which raised questions about certain marine chartering
costs which appeared to deviate from the industry norm,” David
Harpole, Lyondell’s Houston spokesman, said in an e-mail in
response to yesterday’s sentencing.  He said that when an
internal investigation disclosed apparent kickbacks, the company
“took immediate steps to address the matter,” including firing
Barnes and referring the matter for criminal investigation by
the Justice Department’s Houston division.  Rusty Hardin , Barnes’s lawyer, didn’t respond to a call
seeking comment on yesterday’s sentence.  The case is U.S. v. Barnes, 4:10-cr-0787, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Florida Foreclosure Lawyer Stern Sued by DJSP Enterprises  David Stern, the Florida foreclosure lawyer who profited
off the state’s housing bust before losing his biggest clients,
was sued by a partner company that claims it was damaged by
Stern’s foreclosure practices.  DJSP Enterprises Inc. (DJSP) , which took on the non-legal
foreclosure-processing services of Stern’s law firm and depended
on his referrals, said in a copy of a complaint included in a
regulatory filing dated Jan. 3 that Stern concealed his business
was “systematically engaging in unlawful and fraudulent
conduct” in foreclosures.  Those practices jeopardized Stern’s relationships with his
biggest clients, including banks and government mortgage
companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and the viability of his
law firm and DJSP, according to the complaint.  DJSP said the complaint was filed Jan. 3 in Broward County,
Florida. The filing of the suit couldn’t be immediately
confirmed with the court.  Jeffrey Tew, a lawyer for Stern, said his client would
fight the claims. Stern’s law firm has stopped handling
foreclosure cases, according to Tew.  “We don’t think the allegations are well founded,” he
said in a phone interview.  Lehman Brokerage Trustee Seeks $24.3 Million for Four Months  The trustee liquidating the  Lehman Brothers Inc. (LEHMQ)  brokerage
is seeking $24.3 million in fees for himself and his law firm
for the four months through June, plus expenses of about
$299,916.  James Giddens, who also is liquidating the  MF Global Inc. (MF) 
broker-dealer, asked a judge to approve the fees for Lehman work
Jan.3in his eighth request in the three years since the Lehman
parent filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history. Prior fees
and expenses approved for the trustee and his firm,  Hughes
Hubbard & Reed LLP (1218L) , total $145.6 million, according to a filing
yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  Giddens worked 468 hours at $891 an hour for $417,255 in
fees during the four-month period, out of more than 51,000 hours
billed by the firm, according to the filing.  Giddens plans to start paying the Lehman brokerage’s
remaining customers, mostly hedge funds and institutions, early
next year from available assets of $18.3 billion, he said last
month. He didn’t say how much money customers can expect, only
that his goal was to make “a significant” payment. Large
payouts must await the resolution of remaining disputes over
claims filed against the defunct brokerage, he said.  By law, Giddens must share the assets equally among
customers. He has gathered $23.7 billion to pay customers from
settlements, litigation and negotiations with banks and other
business partners, according to court records. He is holding $3
billion of the total in reserve for a court fight with  Barclays
Plc (BARC) , which in 2008 bought North American businesses of the
brokerage’s parent, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The Lehman brokerage liquidation is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 