-- Comcast-Disney Pact Signals More Deals Aimed Against Netflix
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-01-05T21:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/comcast-s-disney-pact-signals-more-pay-tv-deals-aimed-at-fighting-netflix.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s rights agreement with
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  may become the template for how pay-TV companies
strike deals with programmers to defend their subscriber base
against online rivals such as Netflix Inc.  The largest U.S. cable carrier and Disney yesterday reached
a 10-year accord giving Comcast’s customers access to live and
on-demand content on computers, smartphones and tablets. The
deal lets Comcast subscribers watch real-time programming on ABC
and cable networks including Disney Channel, ABC Family, ESPN
and ESPN2 outside of the home for the first time.  Comcast benefits from the accord because it motivates
customers to keep their subscriptions, said  Craig Moffett , a
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst in New York. The deal hurts
 Netflix (NFLX)  and Hulu LLC, whose competitive advantage of offering
content over the Internet will erode, he said.  “Comcast and Disney just made a lot of top-shelf content
available out of the home for ‘free’ with a subscription to
cable,” Moffett said. “That can’t be good news for the
companies that hope to charge customers for the same
functionality.”  The six largest U.S. pay-TV companies lost a net 711,000
video subscribers in the first nine months of 2011 amid gains by
Netflix, Hulu and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , which deliver movies and TV
programs over the Internet for free or a fraction of what cable
companies charge. Disney and Comcast, together with  News Corp .
and  Providence Equity Partners , are investors in Hulu.  ‘Logical Progression’  The accord will give Comcast customers access to the Disney
content “in the coming months,” said John Demming, a Comcast
spokesman, without giving a specific date. It’s a “major step”
for the evolution of so-called TV Everywhere, a concept giving
pay-TV customers access to programming anywhere, said Bryan Kraft, an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in New York.  “This is where the industry is going,” Kraft said in an
interview. “You’re going to see more agreements that allow
distribution of content both inside and outside the home. It’s
the logical progression.”  Netflix  declined (NFLX)  1.4 percent to $79.30 at the close in  New
York . Comcast added 0.9 percent to $24.95.  Netflix is a complement to cable TV, said  Steve Swasey , a
spokesman for the company. Its subscribers will still be able to
“enjoy the ease of use, low cost and vast catalog of TV shows
and movies available” even as cable companies strike broader
deals for online rights, he said.  Different Apps  Netflix ended the third quarter with 23.8 million U.S.
subscribers. The Los Gatos, California-based company will report
fourth-quarter earnings and customer totals on Jan. 25.  Comcast had 22.4 million video subscribers and 17.8 million
broadband customers as of Sept. 30. The Philadelphia-based
company sees the agreement “as a template for other deals”
it’s negotiating, Neil Smit, president of Comcast Cable, said in
an interview yesterday.  Comcast differentiates itself from smaller cable rivals
including  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) 
by allowing customers to watch programming out of the home on
its Xfinity TV application. The app has been downloaded
7 million times, Chief Financial Officer Michael Angelakis
said today at a conference.  Time Warner Cable and Cablevision’s mobile apps only give
subscribers access to in-home live viewing. Comcast is probably
paying more to give customers access anywhere, according to
analysts.  Disney, based in Burbank,  California , may receive
$22 billion to $25 billion for ESPN programming alone over the
10 years, said Derek Baine, an analyst at SNL Kagan. The deal
marks the first time Disney-branded cable channels will stream
content to pay-TV customers using mobile devices and computers.
ESPN already had such agreements with 40 million pay-TV homes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  