-- Cordray: CFPB Starts Nonbank Firm Oversight
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-01-05T22:49:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/consumer-bureau-starts-oversight-of-nonbank-firms-cordray-says.html
The U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau will begin supervision of mortgage servicers,
payday lenders and student-loan companies in an immediate
expansion of its authority under the Dodd-Frank Act, agency
Director  Richard Cordray  said in a Washington speech.  The agency will begin dealing face-to-face with nonbank
firms “that often compete with banks but have largely escaped
meaningful federal oversight,” Cordray said today at the
 Brookings Institution  in Washington during his first speech
since President  Barack Obama  used a recess appointment to give
him the bureau’s top job.  “This is an important step forward for protecting
consumers,” Cordray said in a statement on the bureau’s
website. “Holding both banks and nonbanks accountable to
consumer financial laws will help create a fairer, more
transparent market.”  Dodd-Frank, the financial-regulation overhaul that created
the consumer bureau, authorizes the bureau to begin immediate
supervision of mortgage originators and servicers, private
student lenders and payday loan firms once a director was in
place, according to the statement. The agency can now supervise
these firms “regardless of size,” according to the statement.  In June the consumer bureau began the process that must
lead to a proposal by July 21 of this year on precisely which
nonbank financial firms will be supervised. The bureau began
supervision of the largest banks on July 21 last year, its first
official day of work and the first anniversary of Dodd-Frank’s
enactment.  Enforcement  Cordray, who ran the bureau’s enforcement unit before being
named director, said the agency has taken over “a number of”
investigations from other federal regulators that ceded consumer
protection roles on July 21. The bureau has also started its own
investigations, said Cordray, who was  Ohio ’s attorney general
before joining the agency in 2010.  “Some may be resolved through cooperative efforts to
correct problems,” Cordray said of the cases. “Others may
require enforcement actions to stop illegal behavior.”  He said the bureau will do its work with “our nose to the
grindstone” amid criticism of Obama’s decision to bypass Senate
confirmation to put him in the job.  Cordray said Raj Date, the former bank executive who has
been de facto head of the bureau since July, will serve as his
deputy director.  Kent Markus, who had been Cordray’s deputy for enforcement,
will now head up that department, according to an e-mailed
statement from the bureau. Markus was previously the chief legal
counsel to former Ohio Governor Ted Strickland. He also served
as a counselor to former U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 