-- Consumer Loan Delinquencies Fell in Third Quarter, ABA Says
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-01-05T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/consumer-loan-delinquencies-fell-in-third-quarter-aba-says.html
U.S. consumer-loan  delinquencies (DELQUS30)  fell
in the third quarter for the first time in 2011 as consumers
benefited from improving job and housing markets, the  American
Bankers Association  said.  Overall delinquencies in eight loan categories decreased to
2.59 percent of all accounts in the three months ended Sept. 30
from 2.88 percent in the preceding quarter, the ABA said today
in its Consumer Credit Delinquency Bulletin.  The survey, which defines delinquency as a late payment
that is 30 days or more overdue, found that home-equity loan
delinquencies fell to 4.12 percent in the third quarter, from
4.38 percent three months earlier as the housing market moved
closer to stabilization,  James Chessen , the ABA’s chief
economist, said in a statement.  “Subtle improvements in the economy such as lower gas
prices and a better job market have reduced some of the stresses
facing consumers,” Chessen said.  In two categories -- credit cards and home equity lines of
credit -- delinquencies increased slightly in the third quarter.
Credit card late payments ticked up to 3.25 percent of all
accounts, from 3.22 percent, and home-equity  credit line 
delinquencies increased to 1.93 percent of all accounts, from
1.91 percent in the second quarter.  “Improvement in delinquencies over the next year hinges on
the housing market, which still poses an enormous challenge to
continued economic growth,” Chessen said. “Job creation and
income growth are also a must if we hope to see delinquencies
continue to fall.”  The U.S. unemployment rate increased to 8.7 percent in
December from 8.6 percent the prior month, the lowest since
March 2009, according to the median forecast of 62 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey before the Labor Department data is
released on Jan. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  