-- Cordray at CFPB, Fed Housing Study, Bank Sarasin, UBS Failure: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-01-05T12:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/cordray-at-cfpb-fed-housing-study-bank-sarasin-compliance.html
President  Barack Obama  installed
 Richard Cordray  as head of the  Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau  with a recess appointment yesterday, testing the limits
of his executive authority to fill the post without Senate
approval.  Cordray, speaking at the airport in Cleveland, where he was
accompanying the president to a speech on the economy, said he
would be “100 percent focused” on protecting the American
consumer. Cordray is the former attorney general of  Ohio .  Obama nominated Cordray to be the bureau’s first director
in July, almost one year after enactment of the Dodd-Frank
financial regulatory law creating the agency. Republicans
blocked Cordray’s confirmation by the Senate last month. Putting
him in the job yesterday may set up an election-year court fight
between the White House and Congress.  The president’s decision drew quick criticism from Senate
Republican leader Mitch McConnell, who said in a statement that
Obama “arrogantly circumvented” the American people and
upended “long-standing” practices that limited recess
appointments.  The Constitution gives a president the power to make
appointments when the U.S. Senate is in recess. To keep Obama
from appointing officials after Congress started a holiday break
last month, congressional Republicans refused to adopt a
resolution to formally adjourn and senators have appeared every
three days for a brief pro forma session.  Obama’s press secretary,  Jay Carney , cited a legal opinion
by the White House counsel’s office that determined the Senate
was in recess and not conducting any business.  Without a director in place, the consumer bureau can’t
supervise and regulate non-bank financial firms, such as
mortgage originators and payday lenders.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Bernanke Sends Congress Fed Study of Options to Lift Housing  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke sent a staff study
on the U.S. housing market to House and Senate committees
yesterday discussing policy options to help clear away one of
the biggest drags on the economy.  “The challenge for policy makers is to find ways to help
reconcile the existing size and mix of the housing stock and the
current environment for housing finance,” according to the
paper sent to members of the  Senate Banking Committee  and the
House Financial Services Committee. “Fundamentally, such
measures involve adapting the existing housing stock to the
prevailing tight mortgage lending conditions.”  The Fed chairman said policies that would help resolve the
slumping housing market could include programs to ease the
conversion of foreclosed properties to rental properties.
Avoiding foreclosure through “a broad menu” of loan
modifications could also help minimize foreclosures, he said.  A policy of no action at all means “the adjustment process
will take longer and incur more deadweight losses, pushing house
prices lower and thereby prolonging the downward pressure on the
wealth of current homeowners and the resultant drag on the
economy at large,” Bernanke said in the 26-page paper released
by the Federal Reserve Board yesterday.  Bank Bonus, Capital Rules Are 2012 Priorities for EU Agency  The European Union’s top bank regulator will focus on
developing tougher rules for lenders’ capital, bonuses and
liquidity this year.  The  European Banking Authority  will use data on bankers’
bonuses “for the design of the technical standards that it will
develop in 2012-2013,” the agency said in a  document  posted on
its website yesterday. The London-based EBA will make rules for
banks to hold “better quality capital” as part of the region’s
implementation of global standards known as Basel III.  The EBA told banks last month to raise 114.7 billion euros
($147.3 billion) in fresh capital by the end of June as part of
measures introduced to respond to the euro area’s sovereign-debt
crisis. Lenders should look to bolster reserves by cutting
bonuses, retaining earnings or issuing shares, it said.  The EBA’s predecessor, the Committee of European Banking
Supervisors, set bonus rules in December 2010 that limited
upfront cash payouts to around a quarter of the total bonus to
link incentives to the long-term performance of the firm.  Banks were quizzed on the number of employees who make more
than 1 million euros as part of the data collection exercise
this year.  The authority will also collect information to develop
rules for a maximum leverage ratio by 2015, and draft
definitions and impact studies for liquidity regulations.  Compliance Action  Sarasin Says Employee Disclosed Hildebrand Currency Buy  Bank Sarasin & Cie. AG (BSAN) , the Basel, Switzerland-based
private bank, said it fired an employee who passed data on
currency trades by the family of Swiss National Bank Chairman
Philipp Hildebrand to a political opponent. The data allegedly
showed the sale of 500,000 Swiss francs for dollars by
Hildebrand’s wife on Aug. 15.  Matthias Wabl reported from Zurich on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse” with Maryam Nemazee.  For the video, click here and click here, and see
Interviews section, below.  Google Decision Hasn’t Been Made by EU’s Antitrust Regulator (1)  European Union regulators haven’t decided whether they
should file a formal complaint against  Google Inc. (GOOG)  over possible
discrimination against rivals in search results, the EU’s
antitrust chief said.  EU Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia’s statement was
published on the European Parliament’s website in Brussels
yesterday.  The EU is investigating Google over claims it discriminated
against other services in its search results and stopped some
websites from accepting rival ads.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is among
companies that asked the agency to examine the Mountain View,
California-based search engine.  The Association of Spanish Newspaper Publishers is the
latest to complain to regulators about Google’s behavior, saying
on Dec. 23 that Google “abuses its dominant position” by using
news content without paying for it.  If news providers opt out of appearing in Google’s search
results, they effectively “disappear from the Internet,” the
association said. It declined to comment further today.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, declined to
immediately comment.  The commission is still considering whether to treat the
Spanish letter as a formal complaint, said a press officer who
couldn’t be identified in line with official policy.  Courts/Tribunals  Ex-UBS Wealth CEO Failed to Act on Risk Failures, FSA Says  John Pottage, the former chief executive officer of  UBS
AG (UBSN) ’s wealth-management unit in the U.K., didn’t heed warning
signs that risk controls in the division were ineffective before
an unauthorized trading loss was discovered, the U.K.’s finance
regulator said.  Pottage, now a senior executive at the bank’s headquarters
in Zurich, should have started a review of controls after a
client-money breach, a payment fraud, and other failings were
discovered, the Financial Services Authority said in court
papers. He also should have done an “adequate initial
assessment” of the unit’s controls after becoming CEO, a lawyer
for the FSA said at a trial in  London  yesterday.  Pottage’s actions constituted a regulatory breach, FSA
lawyer Andrew Hochhauser said in the first day of closing
arguments in the case, where the ex-CEO is challenging a 100,000
pound ($156,000) fine. The case is the first time the regulator
has sought to penalize an executive for oversight failures.  For more, click here.  Rajat Gupta Seeks to Have Some Insider-Trading Counts Thrown Out  Rajat Gupta, the former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director
charged with insider trading as part of the Galleon Group LLC
probe, asked a judge to dismiss some of the counts against him.  The government’s indictment focuses on two instances in
which the U.S. said Galleon co-founder Raj Rajaratnam traded on
information he allegedly received from Gupta, though it
“improperly uses those two instances to create five purportedly
separate substantive securities-fraud charges,” according to
Gupta’s filing in federal court in  Manhattan .  “The five substantive securities fraud counts in the
indictment, because they stem from just two purported unlawful
acts, repeatedly charge what are, at most, two alleged
offenses,” according to the filing Jan. 3. Gupta asked the
judge to consolidate the charges or order prosecutors to choose
which to pursue.  In a separate filing Jan. 3, Gupta asked that prosecutors
be barred from using wiretap evidence. The government intends to
present a “circumstantial case” based on the timing of alleged
telephone calls between Gupta and Rajaratnam and recordings the
U.S. obtained by wiretapping Rajaratnam’s cell phone, according
to the filing.  Gupta’s lawyers said the court’s rejection of a similar bid
by Rajaratnam to bar the intercepts as evidence during his trial
was incorrect.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in Manhattan, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment
on the filings.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Citigroup Sues Hedge Fund Manager in Singapore Over Gold Losses  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Singapore unit sued Hong Kong-based hedge
fund manager Raghavendran Rajaraman, seeking to recoup $1.03
million in trading losses the bank says he incurred after gold
fell from a record high in September.  Rajaraman had $19.2 million worth of gold in his account on
Sept. 23 which the bank sold, along with other collateral, on
Sept. 26 “in the face of a rapidly deteriorating market,”
leaving a $1 million shortfall, according to a Nov. 18 lawsuit
filed with the Singapore High Court. The first closed hearing is
scheduled for Jan. 27.  The bank liquidated Rajaraman’s account after it reached a
so-called forced sell level and got his authorization, according
to court papers.  Rajaraman works with hedge fund 3 Degrees Asset Management
and was a currency options trader with Citigroup in Singapore
until 2007, according to the lawsuit. Rajaraman isn’t a 3
Degrees employee, Moe Ibrahim, founder of the hedge fund, said
in a phone interview.  He hasn’t filed his defense and didn’t return three calls
to his mobile-phone. Richard Healy, Rajaraman’s lawyer at
Oldham, Li & Nie, declined to comment.  “We intend to pursue the case and it’s inappropriate for
us to comment further,” said Citigroup’s Singapore-based
spokesman Adam Abdur Rahman.  Citigroup breached its agreement by closing his account
without prior notice, according to an Oct. 7 letter from Oldham,
Li & Nie to the bank’s lawyers including William Ong at Allen &
Gledhill LLP. Rajaraman’s lawyers said in the letter that he
suffered a loss of $1.7 million as a “direct consequence of the
bank’s breach,” as well as further losses by prematurely
liquidating the account.  The case is Citibank Singapore Ltd. v Raghavendran
Rajaraman S826/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  Deloitte Shanghai Unit Ordered to U.S. Court in SEC Probe  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd. was ordered to appear in
a U.S. court after rejecting a demand by the Securities and
Exchange Commission for documents related to an investigation of
Deloitte’s former client,  Longtop Financial Technologies Ltd. (LGFTY)   U.S. Magistrate Judge Deborah Robinson ruled yesterday that
D&T Shanghai must explain in court why it hasn’t complied with a
subpoena issued in May seeking documents that the regulator
claims are “critical” to its probe of possible fraud at
Longtop, a financial software maker based in Hong Kong.  She didn’t rule on whether D&T Shanghai must comply with
the subpoena.  Michael Warden, a lawyer for D&T Shanghai, wrote in a July
8 letter to the SEC that  China  law prevented his client from
turning over documents.  Warden didn’t immediately respond to telephone or e-mail
messages seeking comment on yesterday’s ruling.  Longtop said in May that D&T Shanghai quit because of
errors in the company’s financial records. The SEC also began an
investigation. In July, the SEC and the  Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board  met with counterparts in China to
discuss cross-border oversight.  D&T Shanghai resigned as Longtop’s auditor after
discovering numerous improprieties during the year ended March
31, 2011, according to the SEC.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd., 11-mc-00512, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia ( Washington ).  Interviews/Speeches  Dugan Says Regulatory Uncertainty Worst Thing for Banks  John Dugan, partner at  Covington & Burling LLP  and former
U.S. comptroller of the currency, talked about government
financial regulations. While there are “very significant
regulatory costs” coming out of Dodd-Frank, the “worst thing
facing banks right now is the uncertainty” of the regulation.  Dugan spoke with  Erik Schatzker  and Stephanie Ruhle on
Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.” John Kanas, chief
executive officer of  BankUnited Inc. (BKU) , also spoke.  For the video, click here.  Levitt Says Money Market Funds Need More Transparency  Arthur Levitt, former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, said the SEC “is going to move to force
money market funds to reveal exactly what they are worth on a
daily basis.”  Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and
Tom Keene on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Germann Says Hildebrand Must Restore Confidence in SNB  Hannes Germann, a lawmaker in the upper house of parliament
from the  Swiss People’s Party , talks about Phillip Hildebrand’s
tenure as head of the Swiss National Bank after his wife
purchased dollars in August.  Germann speaks from Zurich with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse.”  For the video, click here, and for more, see Compliance
Action, above.  Comings and Goings  Societe Generale Says It Plans to Eliminate 1,580 Bank Jobs  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , France’s second-largest lender, plans
to cut about 1,580 jobs at its corporate and investment bank,
about 10 percent of the unit’s total, as the sovereign debt
crisis crimps revenue.  The reductions include 880 voluntary departures in France,
where most of the division’s employees are based, and 700 job
cuts in other countries, spokeswoman Laetitia Maurel said by
telephone yesterday. The bank still plans to hire 2,500 people
in France this year as it expands its consumer bank, the Paris-
based lender said in a statement yesterday.  Societe Generale is eliminating jobs as banks prepare for
regulations on minimum capital levels and the sovereign-debt
crisis persists, threatening revenue from trading and investment
banking. Financial firms globally announced more than 200,000
job losses in 2011, up from about 58,000 in 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 