-- Cotton Harvest in India Seen Missing Estimate on Lower Yield
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-01-05T09:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/cotton-output-in-india-may-miss-estimates-as-rains-hurt-yields-group-says.html
Cotton production in  India , the
world’s second-biggest grower, will be less than forecast after
unseasonal rains areas cut yields, a textile-mill group said.  The harvest may reach 32.5 million bales to 33 million
bales of 170 kilograms each in the year that started Oct. 1,
D.K. Nair, secretary-general of the Confederation of Indian
Textiles Industry, said in a phone interview from New Delhi.
That compares with 35.6 million bales estimated by the  Cotton
Advisory Board  on Nov. 15 and 34.5 million bales predicted by
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  on Dec. 31.  A smaller Indian crop may support in prices, which slumped
56 percent from a record $2.197 per pound on March 7 in  New York 
on expectations of bigger global harvests. Global production
will be a record 123.42 million bales of 218 kilograms each this
crop season, the USDA said on Dec. 9.  “Although the area is higher, yields have come down
because of bad weather,” Nair said yesterday. “There has been
some crop loss in  Andhra Pradesh  because of rains and there were
problems in Maharashtra.”  The area under cotton climbed 9.9 percent to 12.2 million
hectares (30.1 million acres) from a year earlier, according to
the board. Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh states are the second-
and third-largest growers.  “Prices will see some upside on lower Indian output, but
gains will be capped as production globally is on the higher
side,” Vandana Bharti, vice president for research at SMC
Comtrade Ltd., said by phone from  New Delhi .  Chinese Demand  Cotton for March delivery was little changed at 95.80 cents
a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York at 3:03 p.m. in Mumbai.
Futures slumped 37 percent last year, the most since 2004.  Overseas sales may be about 8 million bales this year, 14
percent higher than a year earlier, after the government freed
exports, Nair said.  “There is good export demand from  China  as it’s building
reserves,” he said. Exporters may have registered with the
trade ministry to ship 4.4 million bales since Oct. 1, he said.  China’s imports (US11IMCN)  may climb to 3.3 million metric tons in the
year ending July 31 from 2.7 million tons a year earlier, Terry
Townsend, executive director of the  International Cotton
Advisory Committee , said on Nov. 7.  “China is looking to build its reserves in most
commodities and may boost Indian purchases when the new crop
arrivals pick up around March-April,” Vimala Reddy, analyst at
Karvy Comtrade Ltd., said from Hyderabad. A decline in the
Indian currency to a record last month may keep some buyers
away, she said.  India’s rupee was  Asia ’s worst performer last year,
reaching a record low of 54.305 a dollar on Dec. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  