-- Credit Suisse’s Sohn Said to Plan Hedge Fund This Year
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-01-05T20:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/credit-suisse-s-albert-sohn-said-to-start-hedge-fund-for-bank-s-clients.html
Albert Sohn, the former head of
securitized products at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , plans to start a
hedge fund this year within the bank’s asset-management unit,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Sohn, 41, is planning to oversee money for the Swiss bank’s
clients and will be joined by Gary Buchalter, Amar Sujanani and
Alok Verma, said the person, who asked not to be named because
the information is private. Steven Vames, a New York-based
spokesman for Credit Suisse, declined to comment on the plans.  Sohn’s former division was among those that thrived in 2009
and 2010 as markets recovered from the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression, and then struggled last year as
 Europe ’s sovereign debt woes curbed risk-taking, depressing
prices and trading volumes. Sohn, who’s worked at Credit Suisse
for 18 years, this month moved to the bank’s alternative
investments unit within the asset-management group, reporting to
Jonathan McHardy, according to a memo sent to employees.  Under Sohn, Credit Suisse underwrote the only two sales
last year of bonds tied to new U.S. residential mortgages
without government backing, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The firm also ranked as the second-largest packager
of mortgage securities into new bonds in the first nine months
of 2011, trailing Barclays Plc, according to newsletter Asset-
Backed Alert.  Fundraising Challenge  Credit Suisse,  Switzerland ’s second-largest bank, in
October announced plans to shut a unit that originated U.S.
commercial mortgages to be packaged into securities, informing
about 50 employees their jobs were likely to be eliminated, two
people briefed on the matter said at the time.  A month later, the bank said its “securitized products
results remained weak as further declines in bond prices led to
continued low client activity and additional valuation
reductions” on bonds in its inventory.  Brian Chin, who’s worked at the bank since 2003, replaced
Sohn, according to the memo. Dow Jones reported Chin’s move
yesterday.  Credit Suisse is starting the fund as losses last year
across the industry make fundraising more challenging. The
number of new hedge funds declined to 265 in the third quarter
from 280 in the second quarter, according to Hedge Fund Research
Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  