-- CVC, Nordic, Bain, BC Said to Mull Bids for Sweden’s Ahlsell
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-01-05T17:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/cvc-nordic-bain-to-mull-bids-for-ahlsell.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. is among a
handful of buyout firms being sounded out for their interest in
Ahlsell AB, a Swedish construction products supplier, ahead of a
possible auction this year, three people familiar with the talks
said.  Ahlsell’s owners,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Cinven Ltd,
have granted some information and access to private equity firms
Nordic Capital Svenska AB,  Bain Capital  LLC and  BC Partners  Ltd.
as well, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the talks are private. Cinven and Goldman Sachs may decide this
month to start a formal sale, which could raise about 1.5
billion pounds ($2.3 billion) depending on the bidders’ price
indications, expected Tuesday, they said.  Cinven, the British buyout firm that owns the Pizza Express
restaurant chain, is trying to return cash to investors as it
seeks 5 billion euros ($6.4 billion) for a new buyout fund. The
London-based firm last year sold its remaining stake in  Amadeus
IT Holding SA (AMS) , the flight-reservation provider that went public
last year, and disposed of Swedish diagnostics company Phadia AB
to  Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (TMO)  for 2.5 billion euros. It had
to postpone initial offerings for Avio SpA, an Italian maker of
engines for airplanes and rockets, and the Dutch cable company
Ziggo BV until this year as stock markets tumbled, people with
knowledge of the decision said previously.  Officials at Goldman Sachs, Cinven, Bain Capital and BC
Partners declined to comment, while another at CVC couldn’t
comment immediately. A representative of Nordic couldn’t be
reached.  2006 Buyout  Cinven and Goldman Sachs bought Stockholm-based Ahlsell in
2006 for 1.2 billion euros, according to  Cinven’s  website. The
company, which distributes heating and plumbing products and
other construction equipment in the Nordic region,  Russia  and
Eastern Europe, had revenue of 19.3 billion kronor ($2.8
billion) and earnings before interest, taxes and amortization of
1.25 billion kronor in 2010, according to Ahlsell’s website.  Ahlsell’s operating margin climbed to 7.4 percent of sales
from 6.4 percent in the first nine months of 2011, and revenue
rose 5.2 percent. The company had net debt of 8.79 billion
kronor at the end of June.  Wolseley Plc (WOS) , the Zug, Switzerland-based distributor of
plumbing products, is unlikely to pursue a deal, the people
said. A representative of Wolseley declined to comment.  Private equity firms are struggling to revive dealmaking
partly because debt financing from banks has become scarcer and
more expensive as the European sovereign debt crisis deepens.
They announced $123.5 billion of leveraged buyouts globally in
2011, down 14 percent from the year before, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. This was 78 percent less than in 2007,
before the financial crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeauput@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  