-- Dana Gas $1 Billion Sukuk Yield Surges to Record on Debt Repayment Concern
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-01-05T12:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/dana-gas-1-billion-sukuk-yield-surges-to-record-on-debt-repayment-risk.html
Dana Gas PJSC’s (DANA)  Islamic bond yield
surged to a record after the company failed to provide details
on how it plans to repay the $1 billion of sukuk due in October.  The yield on the 7.5 percent Shariah-compliant notes jumped
504 basis points, or 5.04 percentage points, to 45.4 percent at
4:41 p.m. in Dubai. The price sank to 75.56 cents on the dollar.
Dana Gas shares fell 2.2 percent, the most in more than a week,
to 44 fils after plunging 38 percent last year.  The company’s board yesterday considered updates on its
stake in  Mol Nyrt. (MOL)  as well as on financing projects in  Egypt  and
the  United Arab Emirates , Dana Gas  said  today, without giving
further details. Dana Gas’s unlisted parent Crescent Petroleum
Co. owns 3 percent of Mol,  Hungary ’s largest oil refiner,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We would have expected something from the management on
the refinancing of the sukuk,” Atul Gharde, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at SJS Markets Ltd., said in an e-mail. “But times are
difficult for them, especially since political tensions in  Iraq 
and Egypt continue to negatively impact the company.”  Dana Gas, with  most of its output (DANA)  coming from Egypt and the
Kurdish region of northern Iraq, said in November it is in talks
with banks for advise on refinancing the sukuk, financial
strategy and plans to list the company’s exploration and
production business on the London Stock Exchange. Islamic bonds
comply with the religion’s ban on paying and receiving interest.  ‘External Financing’  The sukuk is yielding more than 10 times the average rate
on Islamic debt in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council,
which includes  Saudi Arabia  and the U.A.E., the HSBC/NASDAQ
Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index shows. The yield on the region’s
debt rose one basis point yesterday to 4.28 percent.  “We are still unable to see a repayment strategy using the
company’s internal resources, which means that external
financing is key," Abdul Kadir Hussain, chief executive officer
at Mashreq Capital DIFC Ltd., said by phone interview. ‘‘We need
a well enunciated plan by the company before buying it.’’  Sharjah, U.A.E.-based Dana Gas is owed about $200 million
by Egypt’s government related to natural-gas sales, Chief
Executive Officer Ahmed al-Arbeed said in November. Unrest in
Egypt last year led to the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak ,
draining 44 percent of its foreign reserves and slowing economic
growth in the fiscal year that ended in June to 1.8 percent from
5.1 percent.  Production in Egypt fell 4.6 percent in the third quarter
to the equivalent of 3.72 million barrels of oil, as it slowed
drilling ‘‘in order to balance capital expenditure with the
collection of accounts receivable,’’ Dana Gas said in November.  Mol’s shares fell 2.7 percent to 16,345 forint at 1:43
p.m. in Budapest. The Budapest Stock Exchange Index, in which
Mol has a 33 percent weighting, weakened 2.5 percent to
16,155.02.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  