-- Dementia’s Earliest Signs May Be Apparent Long Before Old Age, Study Finds
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2012-01-05T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/dementia-s-first-signs-appear-long-before-old-age-study-finds.html
The most unwelcome sign of aging,
cognitive decline, may begin as young as 45, researchers found.  Scores on memory, reasoning and fluency tests fell starting
in the mid-to-late 40s in a  study  of more than 7,000 U.K.
government workers, said researchers led by Archana Singh-Manoux
at  France ’s Centre for Research in Epidemiology and Population
Health in Villejuif, near Paris. The findings were published
online today in the British Medical Journal.  The deterioration became more dramatic as people aged, the
researchers found. Pinpointing when cognitive decline begins is
important because treatment is more likely to work when memory
and reason first start to wane, they said. Most dementia studies
focus on people 65 and older and future research should look at
younger groups, wrote Francine Grodstein, an associate professor
of medicine at  Brigham and Women’s Hospital  in  Boston , in an
 editorial  accompanying the study.  “This finding potentially has profound implications for
prevention of dementia, and public health,” Grodstein said.
“Efforts to prevent dementia may need to start in adults as
young as 45.”  Scientists in the U.K., France and the U.S. followed 5,198
men and 2,192 women participating in the  Whitehall II study , a
health-research project so called because those recruited worked
at government offices in and around Whitehall in  London .  Vocabulary Tests  All the office workers were between 45 and 70 when the
cognitive study began. Over a decade, the participants were
 tested  three times on memory, reasoning, vocabulary and fluency.  For men and women ages 45 to 49, reasoning declined 3.6
percent over a decade, the study found. Men ages 65 to 70
experienced a 9.6 percent drop, while women in that age group
had a 7.4 percent decrease, the researchers said. Vocabulary was
the only area where test scores didn’t fall, they said.  The findings may not apply to the general population, since
Whitehall II participants are mostly men and mostly white-collar
workers with fairly stable jobs, the researchers said. Further
study is needed, they said.  “ Life expectancy  continues to increase, and understanding
cognitive aging will be one of the challenges of this century,”
the researchers wrote. “Better understanding of both adverse
and healthy cognitive aging trajectories might help the
identification of early risk factors,” which may include
obesity and cardiovascular disease, they said.  The study was funded by the European Science Foundation,
the U.S. National Institutes of Health, the BUPA Foundation, the
Academy of  Finland , the  U.K. Medical Research Council  and the
British Heart Foundation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  