-- Dendreon Surges After Fourth-Quarter Revenue for Provenge Triples
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-01-05T21:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/dendreon-surges-after-fourth-quarter-product-revenue-triples.html
Dendreon Corp. (DNDN) , maker of the
prostate-cancer drug Provenge, rose the most in almost three
years after saying fourth-quarter revenue for its only product
more than tripled from a year earlier.  Dendreon gained 40 percent to $10.62 at the close of
trading in New York, the biggest single-day increase since April
2009. Fourth-quarter gross revenue was about $82 million, the
Seattle-based biotechnology company said in a statement today.
An average reimbursement time for physicians of less than 30
days helped sales, Dendreon said.   Provenge was approved in April 2010 as the first therapy in
the U.S. that trains the body’s immune system to attack cancer
cells as if they were a virus. The treatment, which costs
$93,000, was cleared for patients with advanced cases of the
disease after the company’s three-year effort to persuade the
 Food and Drug Administration  to back the medicine.  “These results in the fourth quarter obviously exceeded
our expectations, and I think it was really driven by increased
physician interest in prescribing Provenge,” Mitchell Gold,
Dendreon’s chief executive officer, said today in an interview.  Because the drug is the first of its kind, doctors need
time to get comfortable prescribing the treatment and to
understand the reimbursement system, Gold said.  “Once they do, they tend to get be able to utilize it more
broadly in their practice,” he said.  Exuberance  “There’s a lot of exuberance today,” said  Joseph Pantginis , an analyst for  Roth Capital Partners  in New York, in
a telephone interview. “The most important thing is that people
are gathering some comfort because they look like they’re on the
right track with regard to reimbursement. That had been a major
overhang.”  The short reimbursement period means that doctors are more
likely to use the expensive treatment, Pantginis said.  Full-year gross revenue from Provenge was about $228
million, the company said.  A decision by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services to cover the infusion costs associated with the use of
Provenge also helped sales, the company said. The agency
oversees Medicare, the U.S. health program for the elderly and
disabled, and Medicaid, the plan for the poor.  Growth is coming from an increase in new accounts, said
Robyn Karnauskas, an analyst with Deutsche Bank in  New York , n a
note to investors. Dendreon expects to add as many sites
providing Provenge this year as in 2011, Karnauskas said. About
615 sites have either infused the product or have patients
scheduled for their first infusion, the company said today.  “A large source of the surprise here is because they
signed up more accounts than probably they, or anyone,
expected,” said David Nierengarten, a San Francisco-based
analyst with Wedbush Securities Inc., in an interview. “But the
repeat business here is not going to sustain this kind of
quarter-over-quarter growth in the future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  