-- Glaeser: Don’t Count on Housing Market to Lead Recovery
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-01-05T00:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/don-t-count-on-housing-market-to-lead-recovery-edward-glaeser.html
What will the New Year bring for
housing markets? Prediction is a perilous business, but history
and basic housing economics suggest that price changes will stay
modest, and that construction will increase only slowly. The
best that can be said about the current market is that it offers
abundant affordability and that the broader economic recovery
doesn’t depend on a big housing rebound.  The most recent  S&P/Case-Shiller  housing-price data show a
second month of seasonally adjusted price declines. The overall
20-city index dropped about 3.4 percent from October 2010 to
October 2011, after falling less than one percentage point
during the previous year. In nominal terms, the 20-city index is
at the lowest point since March 2003, and in real terms, we’re
below where we were in October 2001.  When it comes to housing prices, it hasn’t just been a lost
decade: Many metropolitan areas have had two lost decades. In
nine out of the 19 Case-Shiller cities with data going back to
1991, real prices are lower today than they were 20 years ago.
In four of those areas -- Atlanta,  Cleveland ,  Detroit  and  Las
Vegas  -- real prices dropped more than 15 percent over that
period.  The disparate nature of those four cities reminds us that
it is possible to lose big on housing in rapidly growing cities,
such as Atlanta and Las Vegas, and in declining cities, such as
Cleveland and Detroit.  Price Gains  Prices always reflect the interaction of supply and demand,
and whenever supply is high relative to demand, prices will be
low. In Cleveland and Detroit, supply is high because the cities
were built up during an earlier era, when the  industrial Midwest 
seemed to have a rosier future. In Atlanta and Las Vegas, supply
is abundant because there are few limits on new construction,
and builders  overestimated future demand . The cities that have
experienced significant price gains are those that have either
strong economies or pleasant amenities; either can boost demand,
as can serious natural or regulatory restraints on housing
supply.  The biggest winners over the past two decades are Denver,
 Boston ,  Portland  and  New York . The California cities would also
look better if 1991 hadn’t followed their late 1980s boom.  History suggests that 2012 will see neither a big housing
rebound nor a second crash. After the last housing collapse,
which first bottomed out in April 1991, prices stayed almost
perfectly flat for about six years. The Case-Shiller 10-city
index was only 2.3 percent higher, in nominal terms, in April
1997 than it had been six years earlier, which meant that real
prices had fallen by an additional 13 percent even after the
first trough.  Home sellers are often loath to take  nominal losses , and
that means they can sit on their property for years, keeping
prices from dropping further in a market that otherwise offers
enough inventory to prevent any major price upswing. Looking
ahead, price swings in many markets will be limited by housing
supply. In places such as Atlanta, Dallas and Phoenix, there are
armies of home builders who would be delighted to supply housing
once prices tick upward. Elastic supply always limits price
growth -- a market truth that should have deterred more home
buyers in Las Vegas and Phoenix six years ago.  Yet housing supply also puts something of a lower limit on
 home prices , at least in growing areas. Even in today’s
depressed labor market, housing can’t be built for free and much
of America is still growing. The  Census reports  that the U.S.
had more than 240,000 more housing units in the third quarter of
2011 than it did six months earlier, and about 1 million more
units than 24 months earlier.  Anemic Growth  That qualifies as anemic growth by historical standards,
but it is still more than nothing, and to have any growth at
all, prices must stay high enough to cover construction costs.  Moreover, the next year should have slightly more
construction activity than 2009 and 2010, because the number of
new households has finally started growing. During the great
housing boom from 2004 to 2006, builders completed about  1.9
million units annually , but the number of new households
increased, on average, only by about  1.33 million  each year.  The mismatch between supply and demand helps explain why
the inventory of vacant homes rose by almost  3 million units 
from 2005 to 2008. New construction was always going to be slow,
as the country worked its way through that housing glut, but
during the recession, the rate of new housing formation also
plummeted. As the number of  young adults  living with their
parents increased, the number of new households fell below
 400,000 per year , less than the number of housing units being
built. Despite two years of building fewer than 800,000 homes a
year, the overall number of vacant homes has barely fallen.  The single best fact of 2011 for the  construction industry 
is that the rate of household formation finally began
recovering. The Census reported an increase of more than  1
million households  from 2010 to 2011, and if that continues, the
U.S. will finally begin working through its excess housing
inventory. Enough new households will ultimately create
sufficient demand to bring back the construction industry, even
if it won’t bring back boom-level prices.  Given that this housing decline is likely to be with us for
a while, it makes sense to look for the bright sides. Most
obviously, low prices mean increased  affordability (AFFD) . Everyone
enters the world “short” housing -- that is to say, everyone
at some point needs a place to live -- and low home prices help
consumers in the same way as low oil and food prices. For
homeowners, it’s wise to think of housing as a hedge against
increases in the price of a critical human need. Certainly, the
value of homes dropped, but so has the cost of obtaining
housing.  It is a popular mantra, even among some economists, that
the economy cannot recover until the housing market does, but I
can’t imagine how either economic theory or history justifies
that connection. Housing prices remained at 1991-crash levels
through most of the good years of the mid-1990s. There is a
tendency to spend some  housing wealth , but that wealth isn’t the
only driver of consumer demand. The current drop in the
 unemployment rate  wasn’t produced by rising housing prices, and
a sustained recovery depends far more on the fate of banks in
 Frankfurt  than on home values in Atlanta.  The biggest gift of the housing bust, however, should be
wisdom. We should learn the folly of bribing Americans, through
the home-mortgage interest deduction and the implicit subsidies
offered by  Freddie Mac  and  Fannie Mae , to borrow as much as
possible to bet on the vagaries of housing prices.  We should recognize that big leveraged bets on housing
carry big risks. We also should recognize the folly of believing
real-estate professionals, and other interested parties, who
tell us that investing in housing is a sure path to wealth.  Housing prices go down as well as up and they always have.
You should never buy a house because you’ve been convinced that
it is a great investment. In almost half of the  Case-Shiller (SPCS20Y%) 
markets, prices didn’t even keep up with inflation over the past
two decades.  You should buy a house only if you have found a home that
gives you the space and neighbors you need to live a good life.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  