-- Drug Approvals Hit a Seven-Year High in 2011 on Improved Data
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-01-05T16:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/drug-approvals-in-u-s-reached-a-seven-year-high-in-2011-on-improved-data.html
U.S. approvals of new drugs hit a
seven-year high last year as pharmaceutical companies responded
to regulators’ demands for better safety data and avoided last-
minute requests for more information.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared 30 new treatments
in 2011 compared with 21 the year before, a Bloomberg review of
agency records shows.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  GlaxoSmithkline Plc (GSK) 
each had three products approved after no company had more than
one medicine cleared in 2010.  More frequent approvals may help drugmakers overcome a rash
of patent expirations. At least 21 medicines will lose a
combined $11.5 billion in revenue as a result of patent
expirations in 2012, including Paris-based  Sanofi (SAN)  and  Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s anti-clotting treatment Plavix, projected to
see $4.5 billion in lost sales, according to Bloomberg
Industries. Drugmakers will generate more than $4 billion in
2012 from products that were introduced in 2010 and 2011.  “I think people have realized that FDA has gotten more
difficult and they’re improving what they turn in,” said  Yaron Werber , an analyst with Citigroup Inc. in New York, in a
telephone interview.  Bloomberg tracked approvals from an FDA database of “new
molecular entities” that excludes blood products and new
vaccines. The 30 drugs cleared last year were the most since 36
were cleared in 2004.  Yervoy, Xarelto  Compounds approved in 2011 included New York-based
Bristol’s  Yervoy , the first drug cleared to prolong the lives of
people with advanced skin cancer that uses patients’ immune
systems to attack tumors, and New Brunswick, New Jersey-based
J&J’s  Xarelto , the second in a new class of anti-clotting
therapies for people with irregular heartbeats.  The agency also cleared Benlysta, developed by London-based
Glaxo and Rockville, Maryland-based  Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI) 
The compound is the first treatment for lupus, a debilitating
autoimmune disorder, in 50 years.  The novel design of the drugs give the agency more
flexibility evaluating them, said  Janet Woodcock , the FDA’s
director of drug evaluation.  “There’s a whole range of things that are novel,”
Woodcock said. “That’s what we hope to keep seeing going
forward.”  2007 Powers  Congress expanded the FDA’s oversight powers in 2007 after
the agency was slow to react to heart risks associated with
Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’ s painkiller
Vioxx and Glaxo’s diabetes pill Avandia. The FDA has since
raised standards for safety and efficacy data required from
companies, Werber said.  Companies meeting the criteria “are starting to see the
fruits of their labor” after years of spending heavily on
product research and development with little reward, said
Michael Meyers, chief executive officer of Arcoda Capital
Management in  New York , in a telephone interview.  “I think the companies are being a lot more selective
around where do they invest their own resources and where can
they make the most impact,” Paul Huckle, Glaxo’s chief
regulatory officer, said by telephone.  The FDA also is holding advance consultation with companies
on what data should be included in drug applications to avoid
having to make last-minute requests for more information on how
a compound works, said Les Funtleyder, a portfolio manager with
the Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, in a telephone interview.  Fewer Data Requests  Pharmaceutical companies filed 29 novel drug applications
with FDA last year as of Nov. 30, compared with 22 in 2010,
according to  John Jenkins , the agency’s director of new
medicines. Nineteen of the 30 therapies approved in 2011 were
cleared without requests for more data, said  Sandy Walsh , an
agency spokeswoman, in an e-mail. In contrast, regulators
approved about half of the 21 treatments in 2010 on the first
try.  The pace of approvals this year may be influenced by the
pace of Congressional efforts to renew the system that allows
pharmaceutical companies to pay user fees for product
evaluations. The  drug industry  and the FDA struck a deal last
year to extend reviews two months in exchange for additional
discussions while a medicine is being tested. Congress must pass
the deal by Oct. 1, when the current user-fee system expires.  New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  leads drugmakers with 85
products in development, followed by Basel, Switzerland-based
 Roche AG (ROG)  with 83 and Sanofi with 79, Meyers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 