-- Dubai, Fujairah Ports Are Busy as Usual Amid Iran’s Hormuz Passage Threat
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-01-05T18:40:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/dubai-fujairah-ports-busy-as-usual-amid-threat-to-close-strait-of-hormuz.html
Dubai’s commercial port of Jebel Ali
and terminals in Fujairah on the eastern coast of the United
Arab Emirates operated normally today amid recent threats by
 Iran  to block shipments through the nearby  Strait of Hormuz .  “If the Hormuz Strait was shut, it will affect business,”
Jim Williams, Middle East and North Africa Engineering Manager
at Aesseal, which makes pump seals for the oil and gas industry,
said in an interview in Jebel Ali today. “There will always be
alternative routes, even if at more cost.”  Iran threatened last month to shut the Strait of Hormuz, a
transit point for a fifth of oil traded worldwide, if sanctions
are imposed on its crude exports in response to its nuclear
program. It began naval exercises in the waterway on Dec. 24,
according to the  Islamic Republic News Agency .  Greece  this week
lifted its objections to a European Union embargo that may be
adopted Jan. 30.  At the DP World Ltd.-operated Jebel Ali port southwest of
Dubai, cranes handle containers from cargo vessels moored at a
number of docks, moving them to storage facilities operated by
Jebel Ali Free Zone FZE. Hundreds of identical, newly-
manufactured cars are lined up along exit roads while trucks
carrying prefabricated cabins make their way into Jebel Ali
where they’ll be used as offices for overseas companies
expanding in the region.  Shipping operations continued as normal in ports across the
United Arab Emirates, OPEC’s fifth-biggest producer, said Nikos Varvaropoulos, a Dubai-based official at Optima Shipbrokers Ltd.
“So far, everything is okay,” he said.  Port of Fujairah  At the port of Fujairah on the  Gulf of Oman , the biggest
shipping fuel terminal in the  Middle East , activities were
normal, as work continued on the construction of crude and fuel
storage terminals.  Tensions related to the threats of shutting the Strait of
Hormuz boosted shipping fuel rates in Fujairah. Prices for 380-
centistoke  marine bunker fuel (BUNKFU38)  were at $719.50 a metric ton in
Fujairah today. That’s up 6 percent from $678.50 a week ago.  Shipping through the Strait of Hormuz itself, from food to
petrochemicals and auto parts, is carrying on as usual,
according to Transport Intelligence Ltd., a logistics consultant
in Wiltshire,  England . “Things are running normally so far,”
Chief Executive Officer John Manners-Bell said by phone today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Jebel Ali, Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony DiPaola in Fujairah,  United Arab Emirates  at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  