-- Dutch Storms Disrupt Schiphol Flights, Rotterdam Shipping; Farms Flooded
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-01-05T13:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/dutch-evacuate-people-cattle-as-flood-threatens-northern-towns.html
The Dutch authorities are taking
measures to prevent flooding across the country amid storms that
have delayed flights, disrupted shipping at Rotterdam and led to
evacuations of cattle and livestock.  Most flights at Amsterdam’s Schiphol airport are being
delayed and some have been canceled as high winds limit the
number of available runways, according to the  airport website .
Some ships have been unable to enter or leave  Rotterdam ,
 Europe ’s biggest port. People and cattle are being evacuated in
the northern province of Groningen after heavy rain raised water
levels in the canals that crisscross the low-lying country.  “Much rain has fallen in a short time, resulting in very
high water levels,” the Groningen fire department said on its
 website  today. High winds are limiting the discharge of water
from the canals into the sea.  The Netherlands, a delta where the Rhine and the Meuse flow
into the North Sea, is at risk of flooding when rivers and sea
levels rise at the same time, a government advisory commission
said in 2008. About 11 million people, the majority of the Dutch
population, live in areas threatened by higher water levels.
About 65 percent of gross domestic product is generated there.  Dikes along the  North Sea  and the Wadden Sea are being
closely monitored after a high-water alert was issued due to the
extreme weather conditions. The Royal Netherlands Meteorological
Institute,  KNMI , forecast wind speeds gusting to 110 kilometers
(85 miles) an hour.  Rhine Waters  Water levels in the Rhine have also been swelled by
continuing rainfall. The Dutch Inland Water Information Center
forecast that the river’s level at the town of Lobith on the
German border would to rise to 14 meters (46 feet) above  sea
level  on Jan. 9 from 12.26 meters today.  Police closed down an area west of the city of Groningen,
147 kilometers northeast of Amsterdam. About 100 people live in
40 houses, including 10 farms, in the Tolberter Petten polder,
which could be flooded to a depth of as much as 1 meter if the
dikes break, the ANP newswire said.  Pilot services in Rotterdam’s port will be restricted until
tomorrow afternoon. Large ships can request that a pilot be sent
by helicopter if possible and some smaller ships can be guided
remotely, port spokesman Minco van Heezen said by telephone
today. Two ships are waiting to enter the harbor and 11 vessels
are unable to leave, he said.  Container Disruption  Container handlers such as APM Terminals Rotterdam are
being forced to stop work at times due to the weather, Van
Heezen said.  Ferry services to islands off the northern Dutch coast have
been restricted or suspended, operator  Doeksen  said on its
website.  Nederlandse Aardoliemaatschappij BV, owned by  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , halted two unmanned gas-
production sites in the region, adding that the measure won’t
affect Dutch supplies.  Interpolis, a unit of the biggest Dutch insurance company,
Achmea BV, said it received about 2 million euros in claims for
wind and rain damage in the first week of 2012 from both
individuals and agricultural companies.  Rising water levels are also threatening the Groninger
Museum in the provincial capital and its current exhibition
about fashion designer Azzedine Alaia. The museum, designed by
architect Alessandro Mendini and reopened in 1994, doesn’t need
to evacuate any art works yet, according to a posting on its
 Twitter  account.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Ludden at   jludden@bloomberg.net . 