-- Insurers Profit From Health Law They Fought Against
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-01-05T21:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/health-insurer-profit-rises-as-obama-s-health-law-supplies-revenue-boost.html
Insurance companies spent millions of
dollars trying to defeat the U.S. health-care overhaul, saying
it would raise costs and disrupt coverage. Instead, profit
margins at the companies widened to levels not seen since before
the recession, a Bloomberg Government study shows.  Insurers led by  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the biggest by membership,
recorded their highest combined quarterly net income of the past
decade after the law was signed in 2010, said Peter Gosselin,
the study author and senior health-care analyst for Bloomberg
Government. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Managed Health-Care Index
rose 36 percent in the period, four times more than the  S&P 500 .  “The industry that was the loudest, most persistent critic
of this law, the industry whose analysts and executives
predicted it would suffer immensely because of the law, has
thrived,” Gosselin said. “There is a shift to government work
under way that is going to represent a fundamental change in
their business model.”  Health insurers contributed $86.2 million to the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce to oppose the law after Obama administration
officials criticized the plans for enriching themselves by
raising customer premiums.  “We remain very concerned that major health-care reform
provisions that go into effect on Jan. 1, 2014 will raise costs
and disrupt coverage for individuals, families, seniors and
small businesses,”  Robert Zirkelbach , a spokesman for  America’s
Health Insurance Plans , the industry’s Washington lobbyist, said
after reading the study.  Profit Margins  Still, the companies saw their average operating profit
margins expand to 8.24 percent in the six quarters since the
overhaul became law, compared with 6.88 percent for the 18
months before it was passed.  Quarterly earnings per share from continuing operations
between the third quarters of 2008 and 2011 jumped 29 percent,
and the results have on average beaten analyst estimates since
the first quarter of 2009. WellPoint, based in Indianapolis,
raised its 2011 earnings forecast in October after third-quarter
earnings of $1.77 a share beat by 10 cents, the average estimate
of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  At the same time, companies are changing their business
focus to gain from provisions in the law that will expand the
size of Medicaid, the $401 billion government health plan for
the poor. “Only by substantially reshaping their businesses can
they profit,” the study says.  Health-Care Overhaul  The report compares the 18 months before and after the
overhaul became law, Gosselin said. The companies studied are
WellPoint;  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , of Minnetonka,  Minnesota ;
 Aetna Inc. (AET) , of Hartford,  Connecticut ;  Humana Inc. (HUM) , in
Louisville,  Kentucky ; and Philadelphia-based  Cigna Corp. (CI)   The managed care  index (S5MANH) , which includes all of the companies
studied plus Coventry Health Care, rose less than 1 percent at
the close in  New York . WellPoint also increased less than 1
percent to $68.51.  Cynthia Michener of Aetna wouldn’t comment before reading
the complete study. Declining to comment were Tyler Mason, a
UnitedHealth spokesman and Phil Mann from Cigna, while
WellPoint’s Jill Becher referred questions to AHIP. Humana’s Jim
Turner said he wouldn’t speculate on the law’s effects ahead of
a Feb. 6 earnings call.  Commercial business now accounts for less than half of the
companies’ combined revenue for the first time in at least two
decades, according to the study. That’s partly a result of the
companies’ growing investments in plans that provide services to
Medicare and Medicaid patients, the report said.  Medicare Revenue  At the same time, quarterly revenue from Medicare, the $525
billion federal health program for the elderly and disabled,
increased by one third, to $16.39 billion, for the four insurers
that reported figures, the study shows. Medicaid revenue more
than doubled to $4.11 billion.  The companies run managed-care plans for Medicare that may
see revenue rise by $10 billion by 2015 as more  baby boomers 
retire, industry analysts have said. The insurers also
administer benefits for Medicaid, which is being expanded under
the health-care law starting in 2014 to cover more uninsured
people. States have turned to private plans to manage Medicaid
caseloads and help control health spending.  Health plans will be able to bid on an estimated $40
billion in state Medicaid contracts from now to 2014, the study
found.  The top five insurers have completed at least 10 deals to
add Medicare HMO’s or programs dealing with the chronically ill,
which usually involve Medicare or Medicaid enrollees. The deals
include UnitedHealth’s $2 billion purchase of XL Health Corp.
and Cigna’s $3.8 billion for  HealthSpring Inc. (HS)   The push toward government programs may prove to be a risky
wager, Gosselin said in an interview.  The  Supreme Court  will rule on the law’s constitutionality
this year and opponents of the law in Congress may target
individual provisions in the overhaul for budget cuts, he said,
Additionally, states may devise onerous rules for the way
coverage is sold to uninsured Americans, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 