-- ECB Cash Averts ‘Funding Crisis’ for Italy, Spain
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-01-05T10:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/ecb-cash-averts-funding-crisis-for-italy-spain-euro-credit.html
The  European Central Bank ’s
unprecedented cash injection is easing borrowing costs for
Italy,  Spain  and  Belgium , compensating for the lack of a
solution to the debt crisis and the risk of recession.  Two-year Italian yields (GBTPGR2)  have dropped by 50 basis points and
Belgian notes of the same maturity have declined by 22 basis
points since Dec. 21, when the ECB supplied banks with 489
billion euros ($636 billion) of three-year loans. Short-dated
Italian and Spanish debt outperformed AAA rated German and Dutch
securities during that period.  “Short-term borrowing costs have come down significantly
and that certainly helps to buy time,” said  Jens Nordvig ,
managing director of currency research at Nomura Holdings Inc.
in  New York . “Six weeks ago, it looked as if there was going to
be an imminent funding crisis, but that’s averted by the ECB’s
money injection.”  The ECB, led by President  Mario Draghi , cut its  key
interest rate (EURR002W)  last month for the second time in a quarter and
offered unlimited three-year cash at 1 percent to persuade
banks, saddled with deteriorating assets including bonds from
so-called peripheral  Europe , to keep providing credit to the
region. Some of that money is probably being invested in
sovereign debt, said Fabrizio Fiorini, who helps oversee $8
billion as chief investment officer at Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA
in Milan.  Recycled Cash  Italian notes maturing within three years handed investors
a 0.56 percent gain since Dec. 21, beating a 0.14 percent return
from German debt and a 0.2 percent advance for Finnish
securities, bond indexes compiled Bank of America Merrill Lynch
show. Spanish notes returned 0.78 percent. The  Stoxx Europe 600
Index (SXXP)  has risen 5.6 percent since the ECB allotted the funds.  “Some of the cash and the liquidity the ECB has provided
is likely to be recycled into peripheral debt,” Fiorini said.
“This should allow  Italy  and Spain to raise money at lower
borrowing costs, at least in the first quarter.”  Italy sold 9 billion euros of bills on Dec. 28 at about
half the rate of the previous sale in November. It auctioned
bonds due March 2022 the next day at an average yield of 6.98
percent, down from the 7.56 percent it paid at a Nov. 29 sale.  Belgium, whose credit rating was cut two steps by Moody’s
Investors Service on Dec. 16, raised more money than planned at
a Jan. 3 debt sale as borrowing costs fell to the lowest level
in 18 months. It sold 2.44 billion euros of three- and six-month
treasury bills, compared with a target of 2.2 billion euros.  Recession Risk  The European Commission cut its 2012 growth forecast by
more than half to 0.5 percent in November, while Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said yesterday that the
region is “on the brink of a recession of which one doesn’t yet
know its scope.” The euro posted its first back-to-back annual
losses against the dollar in a decade last year.  Standard & Poor’s  said Dec. 15 that it was reviewing the
credit ratings of 15 euro nations for a possible downgrade,
including AAA rated Germany and  France , citing “systemic stress
in the  euro zone .”  France sold 7.96 billion euros of bond maturing in 2021,
2023, 2035 and 2041 today, with borrowing costs rising in its
first auction of the year. The debt maturing in 2021 was sold at
an average yield of 3.29 percent, up from 3.18 percent in the
previous auction on Dec. 1.  With European leaders failing to come up with what German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  described as a “big-bang” solution to
the crisis, the ECB has taken unprecedented steps to prevent the
crisis from spreading. The 489 billion euros it lent to 523
banks last month exceeded the median estimate of 293 billion
euros in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The central bank
will offer a second three-year loan on Feb. 28. A report last
month showed its balance sheet swelled to a record 2.73 trillion
euros on increased lending.  Danger Zone  The central bank has also bought bonds to curb rising
yields. Italy’s 10-year borrowing cost topped 7 percent in
November, the level that prompted  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland
to seek bailouts, and has been stuck at about 6.9 percent this
week.  At 4.57 percent, Italy’s two-year funding cost is below its
six-month average of 4.69 percent, and down from more than 7.66
percent on Nov. 25. Spanish two-year yields of 3.48 percent have
dropped from more than 6 percent six weeks ago.  “If you look at short-dated Italian or Spanish bonds,
there is some evidence that the money from the ECB is being used
to buy these bonds,” said Mohit Kumar, head of European fixed-
income strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in  London . “The ECB’s role
is crucial in containing the crisis. It may have constraints it
needs to think of, but it’s not without policy tools.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  