-- Echo360 Pushes ‘Lecture Capture’ Tech into Classrooms from Qatar to the U.S.
-- B y   K a r e n   A .   F r e n k e l
-- 2012-01-05T18:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/echo360-pushes-lecture-capture-tech-into-classrooms-from-qatar-to-the-u-s-.html
     Two hundred students from all over the Arab world take
pharmacology classes in English at Qatar University, even
though it's a second language for most. To help them
understand the complex material, Dr. Peter Jewesson, a
professor and dean of the College of Pharmacy, equipped five
classrooms with technology to record lectures and sync them
with other materials, such as professors' PowerPoint slides
and notes on electronic whiteboards. The approach, known as
lecture capture, lets students watch lessons remotely on their
computers or return to study archived lectures after class.  Colleges have long been taping lectures, but in the last
half-decade, an industry has emerged to sell specialized
technology that captures many elements of a lesson to help
students learn outside the classroom. Some see it as a way to
teach people who have different learning styles, by letting
those who have trouble understanding or paying attention
return to the material at their own pace. Echo360, the Dulles
(Va.) company that equipped Qatar University's pharmacology
classrooms, has about 500 college clients in 29
countries, including the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology ,  Stanford University  and  New York University .  Roughly 10 companies make lecture capture
technology, including Cisco, Polycom, Qumu, Sonic Foundry and
VBrick. Some companies also target the corporate training
market in addition to or instead of academics. Echo360
distinguishes itself "because it offers the capture hardware
and also software for desktops,” says Aimee M. Roberts, an
analyst at business research and consulting firm  Frost &
Sullivan , “and is the only pure play in the education market
that does both.”  Here's how it works. Echo360 installs a special piece of
hardware in the back of a classroom that acts as a hub to
receive feeds from classroom video cameras, electronic
whiteboards and the lecturer's computer. Students can then
watch all the elements of a live lecture online, or they can
bookmark sections during class and review them later. The
pharmacology students at Qatar University embraced the
technology. “Because English is the language of choice in
academia and health-care delivery but a second language for
our students, we needed tools to help them overcome this
challenge,” Jewesson says.  Schools spent $60 million to $70 million on lecture
capture in 2011, Roberts estimates. While much of that is in
 North America , schools in  Europe  and the  Middle East  appear to
be buying lecture capture systems the fastest, followed by
 Asia  and  Latin America . Global spending on lecture capture has
increased about 19 percent annually in recent years, according
to Alan Greenberg, a partner at market research firm Wainhouse
Research. He expects that to reach 25 percent over the next
five years.  For now, however, only 8 percent of public universities
and about 4 percent of private four-year schools had adopted
lecture capture in 2011, according to the Campus Computing
Survey, a national poll of college technology officers. The
study's author, Kenneth C. Green, wrote in 2010 that "lecture
capture is in the early phase of what will likely be
widespread campus deployment." Fred Singer, Echo360's
48-year-old chief executive, says he expects the market to
"explode" in the next two to three years as more schools
evaluate the technology.  Echo360, spun off four years ago from video streaming
software maker Anystream to focus on the education market, has
raised $35 million in  venture capital . Singer says the
85-employee company has a backlog of orders and this year
expects nearly to double last year's $12 million in revenue.
Echo360 sells its hardware and renewable licenses for its
software, charging according to the number of an institution’s
full-time students. The average cost to install the systems in
five classrooms is $20,000, while the annual licensing fee can
be as low as $400 per classroom, says Singer.  Jewesson says lecture capture hasn't altered the way he
and others teach at Qatar University. “In reality, we’ve been
‘capturing’ lectures for decades, starting with
notes, transitioning to tape recorders, then on to rudimentary
software, and now more sophisticated software that captures
all electronic output, voice and the 'talking head.'" He
recognizes challenges to adoption, however, such as getting
faculty and students comfortable with their interactions being
recorded.  Roberts, the analyst, says measuring the benefits of
lecture capture is difficult. “You can’t track how people have
used content,” she says. “You can just monitor for how long.”
In classes with Echo360, Singer reports, nine out of 10
students take advantage of the technology—and 86 percent of
them report that  they understand course materials better as a
result.  Singer says Echo360 is betting on sales overseas to drive
growth, citing  China ,  Russia  and the U.K. as “big
opportunities.” The technology doesn't replace
teachers, though. Instead, he says, "it gives them choices on
how to use their time more efficiently."  To contact the reporter on this story: Karen A. Frenkel
at  kfrenkel@nyc.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: John
Tozzi at  jtozzi2@bloomberg.net 
