-- EFSF Bond-Yield Boost Fails to Halt Slide in Demand for $4 Billion Issue
-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-01-05T14:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/efsf-bond-yield-boost-fails-to-halt-slide-in-demand-for-4-billion-issue.html
Europe ’s bailout fund is losing its
appeal as a bond issuer after investors ordered about 4.5
billion euros ($5.8 billion) of its 3 billion euros of notes
compared with demand of nine times on its first deal a year ago.  That’s after the European Financial Stability Facility
offered investors a yield spread almost seven times what it paid
to sell 5 billion euros of securities last January, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The book on the EFSF bond is far from stellar at just 4
billion,” said  Padhraic Garvey , global head of developed-
country debt and rates strategy at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam,
said before the deal closed. “A much bigger cover would have
given the thing a better gloss.”  The new bond was the EFSF’s first three-year issue and
follows a Nov. 7 sale that was delayed because of volatility
caused by the euro region’s deepening sovereign crisis.  Standard
& Poor’s  said last month that the fund, which will use the
proceeds of today’s transaction to help finance the bailouts of
Ireland and  Portugal , may lose its top credit rating should one
of its AAA rated guarantors be downgraded.  The EFSF in Luxembourg said in a statement that the deal
attracted orders “close to” 4.5 billion euros. Christof Roche
declined to give the exact amount.  Success Target  The sale of bonds due February 2015 would have needed
orders of two to three times the issue size to be viewed as a
success, Garvey said. It had received 4 billion euros of orders
as of 9:30 a.m. in  London , 30 minutes before the books were due
to close, according to a banker involved in the transaction.  Book sizes have been declining since the EFSF’s first bond
sale in January 2011 attracted orders of 44.5 billion euros,
according to the fund’s website. It said it received more than 8
billion euros of bids for its 5 billion-euro issue of 2021 notes
last June, while the postponed 3 billion-euro sale of bonds due
2022 got orders for “in excess of” that amount in November.  The EFSF, which owes its top credit ratings to guarantees
from nations including France and  Germany , priced its new notes
to yield 40 basis points more than the benchmark swap rate,
according to the fund’s statement. Credit Suisse Group AG,
Deutsche Bank AG and Societe Generale SA managed the
fundraising.  That spread compares with the six basis-point margin the
fund paid to sell its July 2016 bonds on Jan. 25, 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Those 2.75 percent July
2016 bonds now have a yield spread of 45 basis points over
swaps, down from as much as 102 basis points in November,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  The increase in the issue spread “reflects the changing
market backdrop, the concerns over the swathe of potentially
imminent ratings downgrades within the  euro zone  which would see
the EFSF also lose its own gold-plated rating,” said  Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-income strategist at Rabobank
International in London. “Last January this stuff used to sell
like hot cakes. Now it’s certainly more challenging.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net ;
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  