-- EFSF Boosts Yield Spread By Seven Times to Sell $4 Billion Bonds
-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2012-01-05T10:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/efsf-pays-seven-times-yield-spread-of-year-ago-to-sell-4-billion-of-bonds.html
The European Financial Stability
Facility is selling 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) of bonds at a
yield spread of almost seven times its first issue a year ago
after euro-region sentiment worsened.  The bailout fund, which owes its top credit ratings to
guarantees from nations including France and  Germany , will price
its February 2015 notes to yield 40 basis points more than the
benchmark swap rate today, a banker involved in the deal said.
That compares with the six basis-point spread it paid to sell 5
billion euros of July 2016 bonds on Jan. 25, 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It reflects the changing market backdrop, the concerns
over the swathe of potentially imminent ratings downgrades
within the  euro zone  which would see the EFSF also lose its own
gold-plated rating,” said  Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-
income strategist at Rabobank International in London. “Last
January this stuff used to sell like hot cakes. Now it’s
certainly more challenging.”  The new bond is the EFSF’s first three-year issue and
follows a Nov. 7 sale that was delayed because of volatility
caused by the deepening euro-region sovereign crisis.  Standard &
Poor’s  said last month that the fund, which will use the
proceeds of today’s transaction to help finance the bailouts of
Ireland and  Portugal , may lose its top credit rating should one
of its AAA rated guarantors be downgraded.  The Luxembourg-based EFSF, overseen by euro-area members,
would need orders of two to three times the issue size for the
deal to be viewed as a success, according to Padhraic Garvey at
ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. It had 4 billion euros of bids as of
9:30 a.m. in London, a banker on the deal said.  The bailout fund’s existing 2.75 percent July 2016 bonds
now have a yield spread of 45 basis points over swaps, down from
as much as 102 basis points in November, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG and
Societe Generale SA are managing the new fundraising.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Martin in  London  at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  