-- Egypt Foreign Currency Reserves Plunge as Bond Yields Soar to Record High
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-01-05T14:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/egyptian-foreign-reserves-fell-to-18-1-billion-in-december-1-.html
Egypt ’s  international reserves (EGIRES)  fell
for a 12th month in December, sending  bond yields (JPSSGEGY)  to a record
high and fueling investor concerns about a currency devaluation.  Reserves declined to $18.1 billion from $20.2 billion in
November, the bank in Cairo said today on its website. They
stood at $36 billion a year ago, before the start of the revolt
that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak . Central bank support has
helped cushion the impact of political turmoil on Egypt’s pound.  “The acceleration in reserve loss is very alarming and
just pushes Egypt that much closer to a full blown balance of
payments crisis,” said Raza Agha, a senior  Middle East  and
North Africa economist at the Royal Bank of  Scotland  in  London .
“Clearly, the pace of reserve loss is not sustainable, and only
increases pressure on them to quickly get multilateral and
bilateral donors on board.”  Tourists and investors have shunned Egypt since protests
began almost a year ago. Political tensions persisted after
Mubarak’s February ouster, with frequent clashes between
demonstrators and security forces. While elections that began
more than a month ago for Egypt’s first post-Mubarak parliament
have been largely peaceful, renewed violence in December in
central Cairo left at least 17 people dead.  International investors sold $7.5 billion in Egyptian
treasury bills and bonds in the first nine months of 2011, as
borrowing costs surged to record levels.  ‘Orderly’ Market  The central bank said in a Dec. 6 statement that it
“continues to safeguard an orderly foreign-exchange market” as
it has since the inter-bank market started in December 2004.
Then-Deputy Governor Hisham Ramez said in June that the bank
hadn’t intervened in the foreign-exchange market since Feb. 8,
and doesn’t target a level for the pound.  The pound’s decline of 3.9 percent in 2011 was smaller than
most emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, including
those of  India ,  Turkey , Poland and  Brazil . It traded unchanged
at 6.0329 per dollar at 3 p.m. in Cairo today. Forward contracts
show investors expect a 15 percent drop over the next year.  Yields on the country’s benchmark dollar bonds maturing in
2020 jumped 18 basis points, or 0.18 percentage point, to a
record 8.25 percent. The government canceled an auction of
pound-denominated bonds on Jan. 2 as investors demanded yields
of more than 16 percent.  “It’s a bigger drop than the market had expected and
underscores the toll that political tensions continue to take on
the Egyptian economy,” said Simon Williams, the Dubai-based
chief economist for the Middle East and North Africa at HSBC
Holdings Plc. The drop will add to expectations that “the
Egyptian pound will weaken from here on.”  IMF Delay  Egypt has signaled it may resume talks with the
 International Monetary Fund  on a $3.2 billion loan that it
turned down in June. The government asked the fund to delay a
mission visit that was planned for this week “by a few weeks,”
Fayza Aboulnaga, minister of planning and international
cooperation, said on Jan. 2.  Even that sum “will not be enough at this reserve level to
turn around investors’ bearish views” and get investment
flowing back to Egypt, said Alia Moubayed, a London-based senior
economist at  Barclays Capital . The government must focus on
“restoring security which is necessary for the return of
tourists, growth and investments,” as well as reducing the
budget deficit and securing external funds, she said.  Prime Minister Kamal el-Ganzouri has complained that money
promised by Arab and Western countries hasn’t been delivered.
Egypt received $1 billion in aid from  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar,
out of at least $7 billion pledged by the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council, the premier said on Dec. 22. “Nothing has
arrived” out of $35 billion pledged for Egypt and  Tunisia  by
the Group of Eight major economies, he said.  The government says it’s working to rein in the  budget
deficit  and has raised energy prices for some industries by
about 33 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  