-- Lehman Seeks to Pay $2.6 Billion for Archstone Stake
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-01-05T21:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/lehman-seeks-option-to-buy-all-of-archstone-company.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. wants
to buy a 53 percent stake in Archstone held by  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  for $2.6 billion, even if a rival offer
is higher, the bankrupt firm told a judge.  Lehman, which has said it aims to sell Archstone for
$6 billion to help pay creditors, is first seeking to gain
control by buying the banks’ stake.  Sam Zell ’s  Equity
Residential (EQR) , Archstone’s rival in the apartment business, holds
an option to buy half of the banks’ stake in the company at a
still undetermined price.  Through the option, “EQR got the cheapest seat at the
table that it could,” Paul DeFilippo, a lawyer for  New York- 
based Lehman, said at a court hearing today before U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in  Manhattan . “It could exert
leverage to buy 100 percent of Archstone.”  Archstone is the largest real-estate asset of Lehman, which
is embarking on a $65 billion liquidation plan after three years
in  bankruptcy court . After agreeing to pay the banks
$1.3 billion for 26.5 percent of Archstone, Lehman is asking
Peck to rule that it has the right to take Zell’s option to the
rest of the banks’ stake at the same price.  Right to Sell  Joseph Frank, a lawyer for London-based Barclays, told Peck
that the banks have a right to sell their Archstone stakes at a
market price. If Zell values the second piece of their holding
at more money, Lehman should match his offer.  According to Frank, Lehman executives told directors at a
Dec. 8 board meeting that they expected to pay about
$1.4 billion for the second half of the banks’ stake, not
$1.3 billion.  “That was before Lehman sued us,” he said.  Lehman sued the banks on Dec. 15 for breach of contract,
saying they colluded to sell a stake to Zell’s company,
Archstone’s “largest competitor.”  “Lehman doesn’t like Equity Residential,” Frank said.
“If they want to keep the elephant out of the tent they can.
They just have to pony up.”  Bank of America has a contractual right -- and a duty to
its shareholders -- to take the highest price for its stake in
Archstone, which Lehman is trying to take away by setting a
ceiling of $2.6 billion, the bank’s lawyer Lawrence Friedman
told Peck.  The ceiling price isn’t necessary, he said.  ‘It’s Refundable’  “If a judge says the amount Lehman pays is too much, they
can get a refund. It’s refundable,” he said. “So how are they
directly damaged” by the option given to Zell?  By contrast, a delayed sale of the stake would “subject
the bank’s shareholders to continuing market risk,” Friedman
told Peck.  Zell’s Equity Residential took an option to invest in
Archstone because it shares the view that there is value in the
apartment company, even if its estimate is lower than the
$6 billion valuation of Lehman, a lawyer for Equity Residential
said.  The option ensured that Zell would have a second chance to
invest in Archstone if Lehman bought part of the banks’ stake,
said the lawyer, Craig White.  Equity Residential, an investor in multifamily housing, is
in the business “for the long haul,” White said. In that
sense, the Zell company’s interests differ from those of the
banks, which are eager to sell their stakes, he said.  Leveraged Buyout  Archstone, which Lehman acquired in a $22 billion leveraged
buyout with Tishman Speyer Properties LP, has ownership
interests in hundreds of apartment developments from  Washington 
and  New York  to  San Francisco . Lehman and the banks made loans,
which they later converted to equity after Archstone faltered in
the 2008 credit crisis.  Lehman holds 47 percent of the equity in Archstone.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The complaint is Archstone LB Syndication Partner
LLC v. Banc of America Strategic Venture Inc. (In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.), 11-02928, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 