-- Pennsylvania Fracking Site Gets U.S. Scrutiny After Complaints
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-01-06T05:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/epa-to-test-well-water-near-gas-fracking-sites-in-pennsylvania.html
Water from wells in a  Pennsylvania 
town near a gas-drilling site that used hydraulic fracturing
will be collected and sampled by U.S. regulators after residents
complained, the Environmental Protection Agency said.  Cabot Oil & Gas Co. (COG) , which in April 2010 said it settled
with state regulators over methane contamination in 14 water
wells in Dimock, Pennsylvania, has agreed to postpone its
drilling there.  “We will evaluate the sampling results and share them with
the residents,” Betsaida Alcantara, an EPA spokeswoman, said
yesterday in an e-mail. Residents gave the EPA information about
the water, although “there are gaps” in the data, she said.  A boom in gas production using hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, helped increase supplies, cutting prices 32 percent
last year, while raising environmental concerns about tainted
drinking water supplies. The EPA is studying the effects of
fracking on water and weighing nationwide regulations.  President  Barack Obama  has said increased drilling for
natural gas is a way to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil
and coal, which is more damaging to the environment when burned.
Officials in his administration have been cautious when
discussing possible health effects of fracking.  “Natural gas plays a key role in our nation’s clean-energy
future and the Obama administration is committed to ensuring
that the development of this vital resource occurs safely and
responsibly,” Alcantara said.  Wyoming  Tests  The EPA released a report on Dec. 8 tying chemicals in
groundwater in west-central Wyoming to fracking, the first time
it made that link.  Encana Corp. (ECA) , which was operating in that
area, said the EPA erred in its draft report.  In addition to the individual studies, the EPA is
undertaking a review of groundwater in fracking areas, and said
it will propose rules to force chemical makers to disclose
products used in the process.  The EPA study of drinking water is set to be completed in
2014.  Fracking is a process that injects water, sand and
chemicals into deep shale formations to free trapped natural
gas. The process accounts for about a third of the U.S. gas
supply, up from 14 percent in 2009, according to the U.S. Energy
Department.  Fracking permits are issued by states, the primary
regulators of oil and gas operations. Industry groups such as
the  American Petroleum Institute  have said regulation should
remain in the hands of state officials who are closest to local
concerns and know the most about differences in geology that
affect drilling.  A spokesman for Cabot, George Stark, didn’t return a
telephone and e-mail message.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  