-- Tesoro Posts Unexpected Loss as U.S. Crude Discount Shrinks
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-01-05T21:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/tesoro-had-unexpected-loss-as-u-s-crude-discount-evaporated.html
Tesoro Corp. (TSO) , the largest independent
refiner on the U.S. West Coast, said it lost 55 cents to 80
cents a share in the fourth quarter, missing analysts’ estimates
of profit, as discounts for U.S. crude oil shrank. The shares
plunged.  Hedging on derivatives and inventory challenges may have
contributed to the loss, Mark Gilman, an analyst with Benchmark
Co. LLC in  New York , said in a telephone interview today.
Gilman, who projected earnings of $1.99 a share, said the
factors Tesoro cited were not a surprise to analysts.  “In the margin environment that was in place in the fourth
quarter, they should have been profitable,” he said.  Tina Barbee, a Tesoro spokeswoman, declined to comment. The
company had $112 million of hedging gains in the third quarter,
Chief Financial Officer Scott Spendlove said in a Nov. 3
earnings call with analysts.  Prices for West Texas Intermediate crude, the U.S.
benchmark, and heavy California crude increased in the quarter,
causing losses in California and narrowing margins elsewhere,
San Antonio-based Tesoro said today in a statement. Analysts
projected net income of 73 cents a share, the average of nine
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  and Marathon Petroleum Corp. are
expected to report similar challenges related to higher crude
prices, said Cory Garcia, a Houston-based analyst for Raymond
James & Associates.  ‘Bleaker Picture’  “This paints a much bleaker picture for refiners all over
the country,” he said today in an interview. “No one thought
there would be a loss.”  Tesoro fell 5.9 percent to close at $22.60 in New York. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Oil & Gas Refining & Marketing Index (S5OILR) ,
which includes Tesoro and three other refiners, fell 3.9 percent
to $204.16.  The loss follows a six-fold rise in profit in the third
quarter as Tesoro benefited from discounts on U.S. crude to the
price of the global benchmark Brent crude. The spread between
Brent and WTI narrowed to $8 a barrel from $26 a barrel at the
end of the third quarter, Tesoro said.  “There’s another element to what happened here,” Sam Margolin, an analyst with Global Hunter Securities LLC, said in
an interview today. “The results were spectacularly bad in
 California .”  Western Refineries  Tesoro operates seven refineries in the western U.S. with
combined capacity of 665,000 barrels a day, according to its
website. Its two California refineries account for 40 percent of
capacity.  Prices for California crude were “unusually high,” Tesoro
said. The heavy oil traded at a discount of $1 a barrel to Brent
in the fourth quarter, compared with $7 a barrel a year earlier
and $12 a barrel in the previous quarter.  The  margin (CRKS321A)  between how much West Coast refiners pay for oil
and the price at which they sell fuel to consumers reached
negative 65 cents Nov. 25, a record low, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Analysts failed to predict the impact of higher prices for
California oil because sales of the heavy crude that crimped
Tesoro’s earnings are difficult to track, said  Raymond James ’s
Garcia.  A season of near-record profits for independent refiners in
2011 driven by lower-priced crude may have come to an abrupt
end, said Fadel Gheit, an analyst with Oppenheimer & Co.  For refiners, “2011 was an anomaly,” he said in a
telephone interview today. “It will never be repeated.
Refineries are shutting down in the U.S. and in Europe-- they
cannot compete.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston  at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  