-- Estonia’s Cabinet Approves Natural Gas Unbundling Bill
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-01-05T14:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/estonia-s-cabinet-approves-natural-gas-unbundling-bill.html
Estonia approved legal measures to
separate the ownership of gas sales and transmission by 2015 and
cut dependence on  Russia ’s  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) .  The measures, which require parliamentary approval, ban
owners of the transmission unit of AS  Eesti Gaas  from having gas
production or sales operations, the Economy Ministry said on its
website today. Failure will result in a fine on Eesti Gaas and
proceedings to nationalize the national  power grid , it said.
Eesti Gaas shareholders will use all options to protect their
interests, including courts, if needed, a company board member
said.  “The government is wrong in saying that Eesti Gaas’
ownership of transmission pipes is an obstacle to developing the
market,” said Eesti Gaas management board member Raul Kotov in
an e-mailed response to Bloomberg questions. “The Competition
Board has never made any complaints about restrictions to use of
our grid or that someone can’t join it.”  Estonia’s ruling Reform Party published plans in 2010 to
unbundle the gas industry and reduce dependence on Gazprom,
Eesti Gaas’s biggest owner and the sole supplier of gas to
Estonia, Latvia and  Lithuania . The government should nationalize
Eesti Gaas’s pipelines to create a functioning energy market,
grid operator Elering AS said in November.  Gazprom owns 37 percent of Eesti Gaas.  Germany ’s  E.ON AG (EOAN) 
has a 33.7 percent stake, Finland’s  Fortum OYJ (FUM1V)  has 17.7 percent
and Riga-based Itera Latvija owns 9.9 percent.  Above Estimates  Shareholders’ estimate for the price of the transmission
grid “significantly” exceed the Competition Board’s estimate
of 120 million euros ($154 million), according to a letter to
the government by Eesti Gaas Chief Executive Officer Tiit
Kullerkupp on Jan. 2, published on the State Chancellery’s
website.  Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are seeking EU support to
build a liquefied natural gas terminal in the region, saying
they’re being charged more for Russian gas imports than western
European countries and citing supply risks.  Estonia,  Finland  and Latvia weren’t required by the
European Union to unbundle their gas industry. The three
countries won exemptions from the 27-member bloc until they are
not directly connected to grids of other member countries.  “Compared with the time for seeking the exemption, the
situation on the natural gas market has changed both globally
and in the Baltic Sea region and now allows new opportunities to
develop the gas market already by 2015,” the ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  