-- MetroPCS, Leap Decline After Subscriber Data Miss Estimates
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-01-05T22:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/metropcs-drops-after-subscriber-gains-miss-analysts-estimates.html
MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  and  Leap
Wireless International Inc. (LEAP) , the regional U.S. pay-as-you-go
wireless carriers, declined after posting subscriber data for
the fourth quarter that missed some analysts’ estimates.  MetroPCS added 197,000 net new users in the period,
according to a statement today. Analysts predicted 223,000, the
average of five estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Leap said late
yesterday that monthly churn, or the rate at which users
defected, was as high as 3.9 percent, missing the 3.6 percent
estimate by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Larger rivals  AT&T Inc. (T)  and Verizon Wireless, which is
jointly owned by Verizon Communications Inc. and  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD) , last year introduced $50-a-month, so-called prepaid service
plans to expand in the growing pay-as-you-go market. Demand for
such lower-cost plans is increasing as consumers seek to save
money and skip signing into multiyear contracts.  MetroPCS’s “gross adds were worse than we thought, likely
due to more intense competition from the big guys,” John Hodulik, a UBS AG analyst, said in an e-mail. He rates the stock
“buy.”  MetroPCS  fell (PCS)  8.9 percent to $8.01 at the close in New York
time. Leap declined 7 percent to $8.56.  Monthly churn at Richardson, Texas-based MetroPCS fell to
3.7 percent from 4.5 percent in the third quarter. Chief
Financial Officer J. Braxton Carter told investors Dec. 6 that
he was seeing “very significant decreases in churn going into
the fourth quarter.” Hodulik predicted a churn rate of 4
percent.  Leap, based in  San Diego , said customer gains were about
175,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  