-- EU Renews Tariffs on Stainless-Steel Screws From China, Taiwan
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-01-05T13:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/eu-renews-tariffs-on-stainless-steel-screws-from-china-taiwan.html
The European Union renewed tariffs on
stainless-steel screws and bolts from  China  and Taiwan for
another five years to curb competition for EU manufacturers
including Italy’s  Bontempi Vibo SpA .  The EU reimposed the  import duties  as high as 27.4 percent
on stainless-steel fasteners, seeking to aid European producers
that also include Bulnava Srl of Italy,  Germany ’s Reisser
Schraubentechnik GmbH and France’s  Ugivis SA . The levies punish
Chinese and Taiwanese exporters for selling the fasteners in
 Europe  below cost, a practice known as  dumping .  “There is a likelihood of continuation of dumping on the
union market in case the current anti-dumping measures are
removed,” the 27-nation EU said in a decision today in
Brussels. The five-year renewal will take effect after being
published in the EU  Official Journal .  The combined Chinese and Taiwanese share of the EU market
for stainless-steel fasteners was 7.2 percent in the 12 months
through September 2010 compared with 6.9 percent in 2007,
according to the bloc. The anti-dumping duty rates are up to
23.6 percent for  Taiwan  and as high as 27.4 percent for China,
depending on the company.  The renewal is the outcome of an EU investigation opened in
November 2010, when the levies were originally due to expire.
The duties automatically stayed in place during the probe into
whether to prolong them.  EU Market Share  When it started the expiry review, the EU let lapse
separate anti-dumping duties on stainless-steel fasteners from
Indonesia, Thailand and Vietnam. Other countries that export
these fasteners to Europe include  India , the Philippines and
 Malaysia , whose combined share of the EU market was 36 percent
in the 12 months through September 2010 compared with 22.6
percent in 2007, according to the bloc.  “It appears that exporters in other third countries,
particularly India, the Philippines and Malaysia, have profited
from the existence of anti-dumping measures” against China and
Taiwan, the EU said today.  In January 2009, the EU imposed separate anti-dumping
duties as high as 85 percent on iron or steel fasteners from
China. That case, which excludes fasteners made of stainless
steel, prompted the Chinese government later that year to file
its first complaint against the EU at the  World Trade
Organization . In  December 2010 , the WTO ruled against aspects of
the European duties and gave the EU specific remedies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  