-- EU Says Hungary’s Central Bank Law Holds Key to Aid Talks
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-01-05T13:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/eu-says-hungary-s-central-bank-law-holds-key-to-aid-talks-1-.html
Hungary’s international aid talks
won’t resume until the government proves that a new law doesn’t
infringe on the independence of its central bank, the European
Union said.  The EU and the  International Monetary Fund  broke off
negotiations on the aid package last month after Hungarian Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  refused to abandon the central-bank law,
which came into force on Jan. 1 as part of a new constitution.
The Budapest-based Magyar Nemzeti Bank has said the new law
undermines its independence.  “We will decide whether the independence of the Hungarian
central bank is fully in line with EU treaties and then of
course we will be ready to open the formal talks with the
Hungarian authorities on the financial assistance they requested
last November,” Olivier Bailly, a spokesman for the EU, told
reporters in Brussels today.  Hungary is ready to negotiate with the EU and the IMF
“without conditions” and to “discuss everything at the
negotiating table,” Tamas Fellegi,  Hungary ’s chief negotiator,
told reporters in Budapest today. This “doesn’t mean we’re
ready to accept everything,” he added.  The aid talks hinge on the central-bank law, not on Hungary
altering other laws included in the constitutional changes that
have been criticized for breaching EU norms, Bailly said. Tens
of thousands of Hungarians protested in Budapest on Jan. 2
against the new constitution, which they said helps Orban extend
his influence over the central bank, the judiciary and the media
and changes election rules in his favor.  ‘Main Concerns’  The EU has “two main concerns” on the central-bank law,
Bailly said. Bank officials cannot “be in a position to have to
accept a mandate or instructions from politicians above them,”
he said. Secondly, “if one member of the European system of
central banks is not perceived by other members and the market
as independent, that creates a problem for the whole of the EU.”  “We need to have full assurance that the Hungarian central
bank is fully independent,” Bailly said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  