-- Euro-Zone Breakup Emerges as Buyer Risk in UniCredit’s Planned Stock Sale
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-01-05T13:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/euro-zone-breakup-emerges-as-buyer-risk-in-unicredit-s-planned-stock-sale.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  is telling investors
considering buying shares in the Italian lender’s 7.5 billion-
euro ($9.6 billion) rights offer they should weigh the
possibility that the euro may be abandoned.  “Concerns that the  euro zone  sovereign debt crisis could
worsen may lead to the reintroduction of national currencies in
one or more euro-zone countries or, in particularly dire
circumstances, the abandonment of the euro,” UniCredit wrote in
its  prospectus  published yesterday. A euro-area breakup could
have “a significant negative impact” on the lender, it wrote.  What began as a Greek deficit problem in 2009 has become a
threat to the international financial system amid investor
concern that nations including  Italy  may struggle to repay debt.
The breakup of the region’s currency is now “somewhat likely,”
said Paul Vrouwes, who helps oversee about 12 billion euros of
shares at ING Investment Management in  The Hague .  “In the past six months the possibility of a breakup has
risen significantly from an event that was not likely,” said
Vrouwes. “I expect more companies to add this risk factor” in
their offer documents, he said.  UniCredit officials in Milan declined to comment.  UniCredit Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  told
Italian daily  Il Sole 24 Ore  in an interview published today
that the abandonment of the euro is “unrealistic.”  UniCredit is the first of the five publicly traded Italian
banks that have sold stock in the past year to list a euro
breakup as a potential risk. The bank’s warnings to investors
also include the potential deterioration of access to liquidity
and the impact of interest rate swings.  Covering Bases  “Even if fairly remote, issuers need to cover all the
bases,” said Tom Troubridge, the London-based head of the
capital-markets group at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  UniCredit, which owns about 39 billion euros of Italian
 government bonds , is selling stock to boost capital and meet
regulatory requirements for a core Tier 1 capital ratio of 9
percent by June. A group of 26 securities firms led by Bank of
America Corp. and Mediobanca SpA have guaranteed the offering.  The debt crisis, now in its third year, saw Italian and
Greek bonds post their worst years on record in 2011 as  Europe ’s
financial woes intensified.  Greece , the first euro-zone nation
to agree a bailout, is still seeking a final agreement to write
off at least half of its debts in a so-called private-sector
involvement agreement.  Prime Minister Lucas Papademos yesterday told Greeks that
cuts in income are the only way to stay in the euro and get more
financing from international creditors to avert an economic
collapse that may otherwise come as soon as March.  “It makes sense to include a euro breakup as a scenario if
the markets into which you’re selling are sensitive to the
subject,” said Giovanni Bossi, CEO of Banca Ifis, an Italian
financial-services company. Investors in the U.K. and the U.S.
“are betting and attacking the euro.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  