-- Europe-U.S. Gasoline Cargo Falling, Ship Supply to Double
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-01-05T17:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/europe-u-s-gasoline-cargo-falling-ship-supply-to-double.html
European gasoline shipments to the
U.S. are set to plunge 21 percent in the next two weeks, and the
number of available ships for the route may almost double, a
Bloomberg News survey showed.  Traders and oil companies booked or intend to book 19
vessels for loading to Jan. 19, according to the median estimate
in a survey yesterday of six shipbrokers, one trader and one
owner, who all specialize in shipping the auto fuel. Two weeks
earlier, a total of 24 ships were hired to haul gasoline to the
U.S. from  Europe .  U.S. gasoline imports have fallen since the start of
December, declining 11 percent to 734,000 barrels a day for the
week ended Dec. 30, according to U.S. Department of Energy data.
Unemployment in the U.S. and less gasoline buying during the
winter months contributed to reduced demand for auto fuel
shipments from Europe, according to Ehsan Ul-Haq, senior
consultant at KBC Energy Economics in Walton-on-Thames,  England .  “Demand for gasoline is related to the state of the
economy, and unemployment is still high, so people are spending
money on other things rather than travel,” Ul-Haq said by phone
today. “Seasonally, this is one of the weakest times for
gasoline demand in the U.S.”  U.S. gasoline demand tends to peak during the so-called
driving season from the end of May to the first week of
September. The number of people  continuing (INJCSP)  to collect jobless
benefits fell by 22,000 in the week ended Dec. 24 to 3.6
million, according to the U.S. Labor Department.  Atlantic Ocean Cargoes  There are 31 vessels likely to be available for shipping
cargoes across the Atlantic Ocean, according to the survey.
That’s 94 percent more than the previous survey showed on Dec.
22. Daily returns on the Rotterdam-to-New York trade route
retreated 23 percent since Dec. 23, sliding to $16,990 today,
according to the London-based Baltic Exchange.  The ships, known in the industry as medium-range tankers,
would be able to carry about 5.98 million barrels of gasoline,
or 427,000 barrels a day, over the next two weeks. Of the
vessels chartered or due to be hired, 11 have been booked and 8
more are likely to be arranged, the survey showed. That’s 53
percent of the 809,000 barrels the U.S.  imported (DOEIMGAS)  daily over the
past year, according to the  Department of Energy .  The survey is based on so-called single-voyage, or spot,
charters and excludes loadings under longer-term contracts. It
assumes shipments to the U.S. East Coast from northwestern
Europe. Each  tanker (VSMVMRSP)  would normally haul about 37,000 tons of
gasoline, or 315,000 barrels.  The suspension of three Petroplus Holdings AG refineries
may curb gasoline supplies in Europe, and reduce the number of
shipments to the U.S., said Ul-Haq.  “Europe will need to keep some gasoline as Petroplus’s
refining capacity is reduced,” said Ul-Haq.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  