-- Euro-Region Industrial Orders Miss Estimates
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-01-05T10:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/euro-region-industrial-orders-miss-estimates.html
European industrial orders increased
less than economists estimated in October, adding to signs of a
deepening economic slump in the single-currency region.  Orders (EUNGEZM)  in the 17-nation euro region rose 1.8 percent from
September, when they dropped 7.8 percent, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today.  Economists (EUNGEZM)  had
forecast orders to increase 2.5 percent, the median of 11
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Producer-price
inflation (EUPPEMUY)  slowed to 5.3 percent in November from 5.5 percent in
the previous month, a separate report showed.  Cooling global growth, rising unemployment and budget cuts
from  Spain  to  Italy  may make it difficult for European
manufacturers to sustain order growth, pushing the economy
closer toward a recession.  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, said on Dec. 21 that it planned to cut jobs
to shore up earnings. Euro-region manufacturing output
contracted for a fifth straight month in December.  “Overall, the trend is likely to point downward,
supporting our view that euro-area gross domestic product will
contract for three consecutive quarters from the fourth quarter
of 2011,” said Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard
Chartered Bank in  London . Recent data “reinforce our view that
the economy is already in recession.”  Ships, Trains  The euro was little changed after the data were released,
trading at $1.2865 at 11:02 a.m. in Brussels, down 0.6 percent
on the day.  Euro-area orders rose 1.6 percent from a year earlier after
a similar increase in September, today’s report showed. Orders
for capital goods advanced 1.6 percent from September, when they
fell 8.1 percent. Orders for  durable consumer goods (EUCCEMU)  dropped 2.3
percent, while those for intermediate goods slipped 0.2 percent.
Total orders excluding heavy transport equipment such as ships
and trains fell 0.5 percent from the previous month.  The euro-region economy is showing increasing signs of
slowdown as a worsening fiscal crisis erodes investor confidence
and forces governments to cut spending. European  economic
confidence (EUESEMU)  probably dropped to the lowest in more than two years
in December, a Bloomberg survey shows. The European Commission
will release the report tomorrow.  Job Cuts  Euro-region unemployment rose to 10.3 percent in October,
the highest in more than a decade. Siemens will cut as many as
1,600 jobs at its health-care division.  Volvo AB (VOLVB) , the world’s
second-largest maker of commercial vehicles, said on Dec. 6 that
its Renault Trucks unit in  France  would scale back manufacturing
this year to counter an expected drop in orders.  Producer prices rose 0.2 percent from October, when they
increased 0.1 percent, today’s report showed. Energy costs rose
an annual 12.3 percent, while prices for intermediate goods rose
3.5 percent. Capital goods were 1.4 percent higher.  The  European Central Bank  will hold its next monetary
assessment on Jan. 12. The Frankfurt-based central bank has
extended unlimited bank loans, eased collateral rules and
resumed purchases of covered bonds to counter the fiscal crisis.
It also reversed last year’s two rate increases, cutting the
benchmark twice by 25 basis points to 1 percent, matching an
all-time low.  Erik Nielsen , global chief economist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , said
in an e-mailed note on Jan. 3 that he expects the euro-region
economy to shrink 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011
before expanding 0.1 percent in the current three-month period.  “Whether we get a technical recession during the winter or
not seems less important to me than whether we are now close to
bottom and about to head into a gradual improvement,” he said.
“We think we are close to the bottom.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  