-- Eva Zeisel Survived Stalin, Nazis, Created Beauty: Appreciation
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-01-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/eva-zeisel-survived-stalin-nazis-created-beauty-appreciation.html
Eva Zeisel, who died Friday at 105,
designed some of the 20th century’s most seductive objects and
survived its greatest horrors.  Arthur Koestler, her lifelong friend and sometime lover,
based his novel “Darkness at Noon” (1940) on her nightmare
experiences in  Russia .  Already at the top of her profession, Zeisel was working in
Moscow, when in 1936, she was falsely accused of being sent by
Trotsky in a plot to assassinate Stalin.  Imprisoned for 16 months, much of it in solitary
confinement, she attempted suicide, wrote poetry, constructed a
bra and played chess with herself.  After her surprise release (like Dostoyevsky, Zeisel
thought she was to be executed), she narrowly escaped the Nazis,
got married to her second husband in  England , and in 1938
arrived in  New York City .  Her ordeal could break an artist. But Zeisel emerged with
the modus operandi: “The playful search for beauty.”  Not Frail  In later years, Zeisel was lovely, wise, severe -- with her
white hair and strong yet delicate potter’s hands. She could
play the doddering old lady as easily as she could the shrewd
businesswoman, but her brilliant eyes betrayed no sense of
frailty.  She liked to spin a myth about herself. Denying certain
influences (such as that of Jean Arp), Zeisel presented her work
as wholly original. It was not. But it doesn’t matter.  Like Picasso, Zeisel absorbed the best of what was going on
around her, sometimes stealing designs and doing them better.  Her white “Museum” dinner service (1942-45), commissioned
by Eliot Noyes and designed for the  Museum of Modern Art , was an
improved remake of an earlier set by Trude Petri.  Refined, elegant, neoclassical, the “Museum” pieces
appear to bow slightly, like Greco-Roman columns, under the
weight of their contents.  Zeisel’s “Museum” service and her “Hallcraft Century”
dinner service (c. 1957) are among the most beautiful sets of
china made in the 20th century. With their tapered, rising tips,
the “Hallcraft Century” nesting bowls and serving platters
suggest the fluttering of wings and alighting birds.  I met Zeisel in the late 1990s, but it is primarily through
her work that I got to know her. This happens when you sit down
to a table enlivened by her dinnerware.  The Evening Meal  That’s where the magic unfolds -- where you sense both
Dionysian and Apollonian forces at work. Zeisel loved the daily
ritual of the evening meal, and she saw her dishes as major
players in that drama.  Unlike Mary and Russel Wright, Zeisel did not apply a
“style” to her dinnerware. She created an organic family of
forms, thematic variations within a set. Her dishes are
humorous, erotic and seductive, suggesting hybrids of plant,
animal and human forms. They relate to one another like members
of a family and invite you to pick them up and caress them.  Zeisel employs belly buttons and baby’s bottoms and
especially birds, whose open mouths pour cream into your coffee.
It is not surprising that while living in Emile Nolde’s Berlin
studio in her twenties, she belonged to a Dadaist cabaret called
“The Green Donkey,” which staged concerts of typewriters and
sewing machines.  She is best known for her biomorphic dishes that transcend
function to become abstract sculpture.  The famous “Town and Country” salt and pepper shakers
Zeisel designed for Red Wing (c. 1946) suggest a mother cradling
her child, an Arp sculpture and a pair of spent lovers.  Like Dancers  Zeisel’s hourglass-shaped candlesticks are poised like
ballerinas. Collapsible, interlocking wooden tables, reminiscent
of Romanesque carving, sea serpents and wild vegetation, convey
a baroque extravagance. “Rabbit Syrup Pitchers” seem to mold
to the palm of your hand.  Zeisel’s career fluctuated greatly. She was given a one-
person show at MoMA in 1946. In the late 1990s, semi-retired,
she was pushing her wares at the Rockland County Fair.  Some of Zeisel’s business ventures ended in the courtroom -
- she was difficult. But in the end, her work sustains her
reputation as a master designer.  Zeisel took to heart the Bauhaus dictum that the highest
form of industry is to mass produce works of art. Through her
nine-decade career, and long before IKEA and Pottery Barn, she
brought Modernism into the home, especially in the  United
States .  In her best designs, Modernist simplicity is never
reductive but, rather, the purest expression of beauty through
metaphor and an economy of means. To sit down at the table with
Zeisel’s china is not simply to dine but to engage with art.  See her work through Feb. 11 in New York City at  Schroeder
Romero & Shredder  in “Eva Zeisel: Important Works of 20th
Century Design.”  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund in New York at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 