-- Rajaratnam Got Tip From Gupta on P&G’s Folgers Sale, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-01-06T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/ex-goldman-director-gupta-says-u-s-case-undermined-by-rajaratnam-s-lies.html
Rajat Gupta , the former  Procter &
Gamble Co. (PG)  director indicted last year for insider trading,
illegally tipped now-convicted hedge fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam 
about P&G’s 2008 sale of Folgers Coffee Co. to  J.M. Smucker Co. (SJM) ,
federal prosecutors said.  J.M. Smucker, the Orrville, Ohio-based maker of jams and
other food products, bought Folgers for about $3 billion in June
2008. Prosecutors told U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in
Manhattan yesterday at a pre-trial hearing that the government
may file a superseding indictment against Gupta, also a former
director of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , by the end of the month.  Also yesterday, Rakoff said Gupta should “not be too
optimistic” about his request to bar Rajaratnam’s wiretapped
calls as evidence in the case.  Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , asked Rakoff to direct
prosecutors to provide more specific details about their case
against his client. Naftalis described as “vague” the
indictment filed in October which alleges Gupta passed tips
about Cincinnati-based Procter & Gamble, Goldman Sachs, and
other “companies.”  “In June 2008, Procter & Gamble sold its Folgers Coffee
business to J.M. Smucker,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard
Tarlowe told Rakoff in court yesterday. “The allegation is that
Mr. Gupta disclosed the information about that before it was
public to Mr. Rajaratnam.”  ‘No Evidence’  When asked by Naftalis to identify any other co-
conspirators in the case against Gupta or sources of illegal
tips, prosecutors said Gupta was the sole source of inside
information for any trading done by Rajaratnam.  “We have no evidence whatsoever that anyone other than Mr.
Gupta tipped Mr. Rajaratnam,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky said.  The U.S. will probably argue at the April 9 trial that
Rajaratnam told another person that Gupta gave him illegal tips,
defense lawyers said in a Jan. 3 filing. Gupta contends that
prosecutors are trying to make Rajaratnam a government witness
by using statements he made about his alleged sources of inside
information. Defense lawyers note that prosecutors at the same
time have challenged Rajaratnam’s veracity, and even called the
Galleon Group LLC co-founder a liar.  Gupta’s lawyers said they may argue that the government
can’t claim that Rajaratnam, convicted of directing the biggest
 insider-trading  scheme in a generation, is believable on
statements identifying Gupta as his source for illegal tips when
prosecutors have cast doubt on his truthfulness, as in their
comments disputing an interview Rajaratnam gave to  Newsweek
magazine .  Pressured Him  In the interview, published in October, Rajaratnam said
prosecutors pressured him to plead guilty to insider trading and
become an informant against Gupta. Afterward, a spokeswoman for
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan called his remarks
“inaccurate” and FBI spokesman  Jim Margolin  said comments
Rajaratnam attributed to agents were never uttered.  Now, Gupta is using the government officials’ denials as a
basis to ask a judge to order prosecutors to surrender documents
casting doubt on Rajaratnam’s truthfulness.  “Any such statement, in which the government expressed its
own doubts about Rajaratnam’s veracity -- or simply that he is
not to be trusted, even if stopping short of calling him a liar
-- would obviously be helpful to the defense,” Naftalis wrote
in the filing.  Prosecutors haven’t responded to Gupta’s document request.  Gupta, 63, who also led McKinsey & Co., was indicted in
October on accusations that he passed inside information to
Rajaratnam.  Five Counts  He was charged with five counts of  securities fraud  and one
count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud. If convicted, he
faces as many as 20 years in prison on each of the securities
fraud counts and as long as five years on the conspiracy charge.
He denies wrongdoing.  Rajaratnam, 54, who was convicted by a jury last year, is
serving an 11-year prison term.  The Gupta indictment cites three instances in which he
allegedly leaked tips to Rajaratnam. He’s accused of telling
Rajaratnam about  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s $5 billion investment
in New York-based Goldman Sachs in September 2008, about the
bank’s unexpected fourth-quarter loss that year, and about P&G’s
poor performance in late 2008.  The indictment cites close ties between the two men, saying
Gupta invested $2.4 million in at least two Galleon offshore
funds, put $10 million into a venture with Rajaratnam called
Voyager Capital Partners, and committed $22.5 million to a fund
they created to focus on  emerging markets  in  Asia .  Wiretapped Conversations  Gupta’s lawyers said they expect prosecutors to re-play at
least some of the wiretapped recordings of Rajaratnam’s
telephone conversations heard at his trial. In a call from Oct.
24, 2008, Rajaratnam told a colleague that he’d been tipped by a
source on the Goldman Sachs board about unanticipated losses. In
that call, Rajaratnam doesn’t name Gupta, who prosecutors
alleged was the source.  Rajaratnam also doesn’t identify Gupta on two other
wiretapped recordings that the government will probably play at
the April trial, Naftalis wrote.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Bharara; Margolin, the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  spokesman; and Naftalis declined
to comment on Gupta’s court filing.  Gupta’s document request was part of a wide-ranging legal
filing that asks Rakoff to bar prosecutors from using wiretaps
as evidence and to dismiss some counts. It also seeks an order
for the government to surrender “any information” showing that
Rajaratnam “boasted about or exaggerated his contacts” with
“prominent persons or his sources of information.”  Insight  The court filing provides insight into Gupta’s defense.  Unlike Rajaratnam’s case, “there are no wiretap recordings
of conversations in which Mr. Gupta passed material, non-public
information,” Naftalis wrote. Nor is there evidence that Gupta
traded on illegal tips or shared in illicit profits, he said.  Naftalis said he’ll challenge the use of a wiretapped call
from July 29, 2008, in which Gupta and Rajaratnam discussed
whether Goldman Sachs might buy a commercial bank. At
Rajaratnam’s trial, prosecutors cited the conversation as proof
that Gupta leaked news about Goldman Sachs. Naftalis said there
was already public speculation about Goldman’s possible purchase
of a bank, and the information on the wiretap wasn’t secret.  Rakoff yesterday noted that Judge Richard Holwell, who
presided over Rajaratnam’s case, ruled the wiretaps were
admissible.  “Realistically, if I were the defendant, I would not be
too optimistic about this motion,” Rakoff said.  ‘Four Daughters’  Naftalis also said the “relationship between the two men
deteriorated in 2008,” partly because Rajaratnam lost Gupta’s
$10 million investment in the Voyager fund.  In the  Newsweek  interview, Rajaratnam was quoted saying:
“They wanted me to plea-bargain. They want to get Rajat. I am
not going to do what people did to me. Rajat has four
daughters.”  According to Newsweek, Rajaratnam said FBI agent B.J. Kang,
the lead investigator on the case, told him, “Take a good look
at your son. You’re not going to see him for a long time,” and
added, “Your wife doesn’t seem so upset. Because she’s going to
spend all your money.”  Margolin said in an interview in October that statements
attributed to Kang and other agents were never spoken.  The cases are U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, and SEC v. Gupta,
11-cv-07566, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
 New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in Manhattan at
   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  