-- Exxon’s Shale Driller Tightens Drug Testing for Rig Workers
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-01-05T21:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/exxon-s-shale-driller-tightens-drug-testing-for-rig-workers.html
Union Drilling Inc. (UDRL) , the rig owner
hired by  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  to explore U.S. shale rock formations
for natural gas, toughened drug testing of rig workers in an
attempt to cut down on accidents.  Union is switching to hair-follicle tests from urinalysis
to detect drug use, Chief Executive Officer Christopher Strong
said at the Pritchard Capital energy conference in  San Francisco 
yesterday. The new protocol already has reduced emergency calls
from its drilling sites, he said, according to a transcript of
his presentation.  Energy producers exploring shale rock are facing increased
scrutiny from environmental regulators, landowners, lawmakers
and investors after intensive drilling techniques were linked to
water contamination and earthquakes. Drug abuse tends to be more
frequent among drilling crews than other oilfield workers, Roger
New, vice chairman of the Energy Training Council in Yukon,
 Oklahoma , said in an interview today.  “The screening process on new hires has really been ramped
up a lot,” Strong said. “We’re just not seeing nearly as much
hotline traffic about problems on the rigs.” He didn’t return a
call to his office in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , today.  The Macondo Effect  The industry is “more worried” about safety and liability
since BP Plc’s 2010 rig disaster at the Macondo well in the  Gulf
of Mexico  killed 11 workers and provoked a safety crackdown,
John Keller, an analyst at Stephens Inc. in Houston, said today
in a telephone interview.  “There’s a PR liability, if not a real liability, if some
guy’s stoned and messes up on a rig,” he said.  Drug use historically has been a problem among rig workers,
perhaps because of the lack of outside licensing requirements
that govern other jobs, such as truck driving, New said, whose
full-time job is safety manager with Oklahoma City-based Great
White Pressure Control.  “It’s hard work,” said  David Pursell , a former petroleum
engineer who’s now a managing director at Tudor Pickering Holt &
Co. in Houston. “The pool of folks who want to work in the
oilfield is narrower than a traditional manufacturing
operation.”  Fracking Shale  Union’s fleet of 51 land-based rigs focuses mostly on
horizontal drilling, the practice of cutting sideways through a
geologic formation to reach more gas or crude. Extracting fuel
from shale requires the use of horizontal wells and blasting
millions of gallons of high-pressure water, chemicals and sand
to break rock thousands of feet underground, a technique known
as hydraulic fracturing.  The number of rigs drilling  horizontal wells (BAKEHORZ)  in the U.S.
surged 23 percent in 2011, reaching 1,184 on Dec. 16, the
highest since at least January 1991, according to  Baker Hughes
Inc. (BHI) , an oilfield-services provider that tracks rig activity.  Union drills wells in several of the major U.S. shale
formations, including the Fayetteville region of Arkansas and
Oklahoma, and the Marcellus and Utica shales in Appalachia.  William Holbrook, a spokesman for Irving, Texas-based
Exxon, referred Bloomberg News to the company’s employee
handbook.  Drug abuse is grounds for termination and outside
contractors are required to follow the same zero-tolerance
policy, according to the handbook.  Union shares fell 2 percent to close at $6.43 in  New York .
The stock declined 14 percent in 2011 for its largest annual
drop since 2008. The company is 23 percent-owned by Metalmark
Capital LLC, a private-equity firm owned by Citigroup Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston  at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  