-- Fiat Boosts Stake in Chrysler to 58.5% After Reaching Its Efficiency Goal
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   L e n a   L e e
-- 2012-01-05T09:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/fiat-boosts-stake-in-chrysler-to-58-5-after-reaching-its-efficiency-goal.html
Fiat SpA (F)  expanded its controlling
stake in Chrysler Group LLC, meeting the final target set by the
U.S. government in the deal that rescued the U.S. carmaker from
bankruptcy and taking a step toward a planned merger.  Fiat’s holding increased to 58.5 percent from 53.5 percent
after the carmakers committed to produce a fuel-saving model in
the U.S., the companies said today. Fiat ended up paying about
$2 billion for the holding in the third-largest U.S. automaker.  The higher stake “represents repayment of the trust placed
in Fiat to introduce its fuel-efficient cars and engines to the
U.S. market,”  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of
Chrysler and Turin, Italy-based Fiat, said in a statement. “The
acquisition of a further 5 percent of Chrysler is a fundamental
step in completion of the integration between our two groups.”  Marchionne plans to merge the two carmakers by the end of
2014 to reduce costs and achieve a target of more than 100
billion euros ($129 billion) in revenue as he struggles to end
Fiat’s European losses, which analysts estimate at 800 million
euros a year. Achieving the final target completes the
reorganization plan set up by President  Barack Obama  in 2009.  Fiat’s larger stake, granted by the U.S. government, leaves
the United Auto Workers union’s retiree health-care trust, a
voluntary  employee (F)  beneficiary association, with the remaining
41.5 percent.  “Fiat should work on fixing  Italy  before considering a
final tie-up of Fiat and Chrysler,” said Erich Hauser, a Credit
Suisse analyst in  London , who’s ranked No. 1 by Bloomberg among
analysts who cover Fiat based on a one-year return of the stocks
they cover.  ‘Low Value’  A merger this year “would likely attribute a very low
value to Fiat meaning that the VEBA trust might end up with a
larger chunk of the combined entity,” Hauser said.  Fiat  rose (F)  as much as 1.8 percent to 3.82 euros in Milan
trading and was up 0.4 percent at 9:58 a.m. in Milan, valuing
the company at 4.7 billion euros. The stock lost 51 percent of
its value over the past 12 months, the  second-worst (SXAE)  performance
in the Euro Stoxx autos and parts index.  Marchionne said in November that neither the merger nor the
acquisition of the VEBA stake were on agenda for 2012.  Fiat first took a 20 percent stake in June 2009 following a
U.S. government bailout of the company. The Italian automaker
has boosted its shareholding by helping the company achieve
performance goals set under the agreement.  Fiat Platform  The final target was achieved after  Auburn Hills , Michigan-
based Chrysler met a fuel-economy test with a pre-production
version of the Dodge Dart sedan and pledged to begin commercial
assembly in the U.S., the carmakers said. The Dart is the first
Chrysler model based on a Fiat platform.  The Dodge Dart is scheduled to be unveiled at the  North
American International Auto Show  in  Detroit  on Jan. 9, Chrysler
said in its statement. The sedan will be produced at a Chrysler
assembly plant in Belvidere,  Illinois , the company said.  The compact sedan will be built on Fiat’s “compact wide”
platform, which is based on the architecture originally
developed for the Alfa Romeo Giulietta. Sharing parts between
models and brands is a key feature of the Fiat-Chrysler
makeover. Future models will cut costs by sharing as much as
two-thirds of the value of key parts with other cars in the
group’s lineup.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Lena Lee in Singapore at 
 llee42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  