-- Fight Over Union Law Has Indiana’s Legislature Mired in Quorumless Limbo
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-01-05T16:55:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/fight-over-union-law-has-indiana-s-legislature-mired-in-quorumless-limbo.html
A clash over labor rights in  Indiana (STOIN1) 
is taking shape in the state Capitol as  House Democrats  try to
stop a measure that would prohibit union contracts from
requiring that workers pay dues, a top priority for Governor
 Mitch Daniels  and fellow Republicans.  When the legislative session opened yesterday in
Indianapolis, Democrats remained in caucus, preventing the House
from conducting business. The opening-day maneuver recalled last
year’s session, when the Republican-dominated House shut down
for five weeks after Democrats fled the state in opposition to
bills restricting union rights. It extends battles over unionism
throughout the Midwest to a new arena: private businesses.  While the House is scheduled to convene today,
Democratic leader Patrick Bauer said yesterday his members would
return if public hearings on the bill are held throughout the
state, not just in the Capitol in Indianapolis.  “We refuse to let the most controversial public policy
bill of the decade be railroaded through and the public denied
fair and adequate input,” Bauer said in a statement.  “There is no urgency to schedule this bill for passage so
quickly,” he said.  The measure, which prohibits contracts at private work
sites from requiring workers to contribute to a union, is
scheduled for a committee hearing tomorrow.  Midwestern Rage  Some Republican governors and legislatures targeted
government-worker unions last year.  Wisconsin (STOWI1)  Governor  Scott Walker  provoked weeks of demonstrations in Madison when he
pushed curbs on collective-bargaining rights. That sparked
recalls of Republican legislators and a continuing effort to
oust Walker.  Ohio Governor  John Kasich , a Republican, pushed through
Wisconsin-like restrictions on public-employee unions and had
his effort overturned by voters in a November ballot proposal.  The Indiana bill, which targets unions that have contracts
with private businesses, is being advanced in the name of  job
creation .  “We’re missing between a quarter and a third of the
opportunities because the business has this as a prerequisite,”
Daniels said in an interview last month. “That’s a big matter
to us, a big deal. In this economy, a state like ours needs
every edge it can get.”  Union Resistance  Although 22 states have enacted the ban, none have in the
industrial Midwest, according to the National Right-to-Work
Legal Defense Foundation Inc.  Oklahoma (STOOK1)  was the last state to
enact a right-to-work law, in 2001. Democrats say the laws lower
paychecks for working families.  The average worker in a right-to-work state is paid $30,167
a year, or about $5,333 less than workers in states that don’t
have the rule, according to U.S. Labor Department data.  The  Indiana  State AFL-CIO, a union coalition, is running
television and radio ads attacking the bill. Nancy Guyott,
president of the state chapter, the bill would have an
“overwhelmingly negative impact on workers’ wages.”  The future of the bill rests on the actions of the
Democrats. Republican House Speaker Brian Bosma told the
Indianapolis Star that he hopes “common sense will prevail and
they’ll come back here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  