-- Five Rare Earths Crucial for Clean Energy Seen in Short Supply
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-01-05T19:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/five-rare-earths-crucial-for-clean-energy-seen-in-short-supply.html
Limited supplies of five rare-earth
minerals pose a threat to increasing use of clean-energy
technologies such as  wind turbines  and solar panels, a U.S.
Energy Department report found.  The substances -- dysprosium, terbium, europium, neodymium
and yttrium -- face potential shortages until 2015, according to
the report, which reiterates concerns identified a year ago.  The 2011 report studied 16 elements and related materials,
including nickel and manganese, which are used to make
batteries. The analysis of so-called critical elements began
after rare-earth prices jumped following imposition of export
restrictions in 2010 by  China , the world’s major producer.  “Diversifying the global supply chain is key,”  David Sandalow , assistant secretary for policy and international
affairs at the Energy Department, said today in Washington.
“Developing substitutes is also key.”  Demand for rare-earth materials has grown more rapidly than
that for commodity metals such as steel, he said.  Rare earths became a political and legislative issue after
China moved to reduce export quotas in July 2010 by 40 percent.
The country accounts for 95 percent of rare-earth production,
according to the Energy Department.  The Chinese government said late last month it was leaving
the export limits unchanged, and more production from companies
including  Greenwood Village , Colorado-based  Molycorp Inc. (MCP)  may
ease some supply concerns.  Falling Prices  While prices of rare earths fell in the second half of
2011, they remain volatile, leading some companies to search for
ways to consider reducing reliance on the minerals, the Energy
Department said.  The department is also researching how to use rare-earths
more efficiently, including through recycling, and to increase
production in the U.S. The department’s Advanced Research
Projects Agency--Energy has given about $31.6 million to 14
research projects to study ways to reduce or eliminate use of
rare-earth elements.  In Congress, at least a dozen bills have been introduced
supporting development of a domestic rare-earth industry,
including through U.S. loan guarantees, according to the Energy
Department report. None of the measures has passed.  “The biggest challenge is a permitting system that has
historically taken multiple years to go from exploration to
production,” Daniel McGroarty, president of Lonoke, Arkansas-
based  U.S. Rare Earths Inc. (UREE) , said in an interview.  The company has claims in Colorado, Montana and  Idaho , he
said.  Worldwide Demand  The five minerals most at risk of supply disruptions are
used to make wind turbines, solar panels, electric  car batteries 
and energy-efficient lights, according to the report. A 2007 law
requiring the phase-out of incandescent  light bulbs  may increase
demand for terbium, europium and yttrium, used in compact
fluorescent bulbs that comply with higher efficiency standards,
according to the report.  “While these materials are generally used in low volumes
relative to other resources, the anticipated deployment of
clean-energy technologies could substantially increase worldwide
demand,” the report said.  Smaller mining companies have difficulty raising the $100
million to $1 billion it takes to open a rare-earth ore mine,
while global mining companies are often not interested because
of the relatively small size of the $3 billion market and its
unpredictability, the report said.  The report also recommends greater emphasis on education
and job training.  “Strengthening the U.S. position across the supply chain
requires a capable workforce,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in  Washington  at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  