-- Forint Bonds Gain for First Time This Year as Hungary Seeks IMF Aid Accord
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-01-05T16:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/forint-bonds-gain-for-first-time-this-year-as-hungary-seeks-imf-aid-accord.html
Hungary ’s 10-year bonds rallied for
the first time this year after the government said it seeks a
deal as soon as possible to obtain aid from the  International
Monetary Fund  and European Union.  The yield on the  10-year notes (GHGB10YR)  fell 35 basis points to
10.475 percent by 5 p.m. in Budapest, the first decline since
Dec. 23, according to generic prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
10-year yield rose as high as 11.34 percent earlier today and
the state debt agency sold 78 percent of its target at an
auction of one-year Treasury bills.  Hungary needs a “quick” deal and is ready to discuss the
conditions, Tamas Fellegi, the minister assigned to lead the aid
talks, told reporters today. The cost of insuring Hungary’s debt
through credit-default swaps earlier reached an all-time high
and the forint touched a record low versus the euro after aid
negotiations broke off because of new laws that threaten to
undermine the independence of the central bank.  “The market had speculated on a failure of talks in recent
days, the government therefore decided to intervene verbally,”
Daniel Lenz, Frankfurt-based chief emerging-markets strategist
at DZ Bank AG, wrote in an e-mailed response to questions from
Bloomberg. “Actually the chance of the deal has been above 50
percent a week ago and still is. Nothing except for
communication has changed.”  Hungary’s international aid talks won’t start until the
government proves that the new law doesn’t infringe on the
independence of the central bank, European Commission spokesman
Olivier Bailly told reporters in Brussels today.  ‘Fully Compatible’  The central bank law is “fully compatible” with EU
regulations and the government will continue to respect the
Magyar Nemzeti Bank’s independence, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said in a letter sent to European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  and published by the ministry today.  The forint appreciated 0.2 percent to 319.82 per euro after
reaching a record low of 324.24 earlier today. Credit-default
swaps climbed to 739 basis points, heading for the highest close
on record, compared with 650 basis points on Jan. 3, data
provider CMA said.  The government sold 35 billion forint ($140 million) of
one-year bills today, 10 billion forint less than targeted, data
from the Debt Management Agency, known as AKK, on Bloomberg
show. The average yield rose to 9.96 percent, the highest since
April 2009, from 7.91 percent at the last sale of the same-
maturity debt on Dec. 22.  Today’s auction yield result was “poor” given the lack of
sufficient demand even 3 percentage points above the central
bank’s benchmark rate, Guillaume Salomon, a London-based
strategist at Societe Generale SA, wrote by e-mail today.  Sell-Off  “As long as there is no EU/IMF aid in store, forint assets
will continue to sell-off,” Salomon said.  Hungary, which became the first EU country to receive an
IMF-led bailout in 2008, shunned fresh aid in 2010 when  Viktor
Orban  took over as prime minister. Orban reversed his policy
last year when the state started struggling to raise funds at
debt auctions and the forint plummeted.  The EU’s most-indebted eastern member received its second
sovereign-credit downgrade to junk last month when  Standard &
Poor’s  followed Moody’s Investors Service in taking the country
out of the investment-grade category on Dec. 21.  The rebound in the forint supported by “more conciliatory
comments by the government on an IMF deal was met with the harsh
reality of a poor bond auction,”  Marc Chandler , global head of
currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman, and colleagues
wrote in a research report today.  Stocks Fall  The benchmark BUX stock index fell 2.1 percent as OTP Bank
Nyrt., the country’s largest lender, sank 2 percent and Mol
Nyrt., the biggest refiner, declined 1.8 percent.  Hungary will have to make payments on its 20 billion-euro
($26 billion) 2008 bailout this year, with instalments of about
700 million euros due in February and then the same amount at
quarterly intervals, plus 300 million euros in June and 500
million euros in each of September and December, according to
researcher  Capital Economics .  The country also has a 1 billion-euro bond maturing in
November and a smaller yen note due in July, according to data
on AKK’s website. Against that, the agency has deposits of 2.5
billion euros, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andras Gergely at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net  