-- Four Economists Come Together to Say ‘We Agree’: Business Class
-- B y
-- 2012-01-05T00:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/four-economists-come-together-to-say-we-agree-business-class.html
“If you laid all the economists in
the world end to end, they still wouldn’t reach a conclusion.”
This old joke still works because it reflects a common belief
that economists can’t agree on anything important. Yet the four
of us are part of a project that we believe will demonstrate
that this proposition is wrong.  Each week since late September, along with 37 other
economists at top universities, we have been answering questions
on major public policy issues. These include the predictability
of the stock market, the best design for health insurance and
the effect of  China ’s managed exchange rate. You can find our
answers (and sign up to be notified of future poll results)
 here .  Why are we taking the time to do this? Although we can’t
speak for the other distinguished panelists, the four of us are
tired of seeing our profession’s views misrepresented in policy
discussions.  We think there are two main reasons for the distortions.
The first is the conventions of journalism itself: Although
there are notable exceptions, most journalists have limited
training in economics, and those who edit the articles often
have even less. Hence, out of an understandable but misguided
sense of fair play, there is a bias toward wanting to show both
sides of an issue. When, for example, an economist tells a
journalist the equivalent of 1+1=2, the writer, in an effort to
provide “balance,” will often include a quote from someone who
says that 1+1=3.  Fringe Views  Second, editorial boards don’t want wishy-washy, hedged
opinions. As a result, op-ed pages are more likely to publish
someone advocating an unequivocal position than someone who
offers a more nuanced argument. This favors fringe views. A
position that sounds new, yet is completely untested, is all the
more enticing to editors, so long as it appears to challenge
mainstream views.  We don’t claim that there is research-based consensus among
economists on all important policy questions. But even when
there is broad agreement (say, 1+1=2), the news media rarely
makes it clear that such a consensus exists.  To overcome this problem, we rely on a phenomenon that is
often called the “wisdom of crowds” effect. It is based on the
observation that the collective judgment of a diverse group of
people about a question is almost always better than the answer
of any single person from the group. (Think of the accuracy of
the “Ask the Audience” lifeline in the game show “Who Wants
to Be a Millionaire.”)  The four of us exemplify the breadth and diversity of the
panel. Our expertise covers micro- and macroeconomics; we
received our doctorates over the course of two decades and have
each been at our four respective institutions for more than 20
years; we have edited major journals and held positions in the
major professional society for economists; some of us have
served as advisers in Democratic and Republican administrations,
others have spent their entire careers in academia.  Together, the entire panel could make up the best economics
department in the world. On virtually every major topic, there
is a member of our panel who is among the world’s acknowledged
experts.  A look at the polling results shows that the four of us
generally agreed on issues ranging from exchange-rate
manipulation by China, to  tax reform  in the U.S., to
environmental policy, to monetary policy. In addition, the panel
as a whole typically agreed on most of the issues. The responses
each week can be sorted according to the answer, the author’s
affiliation or the degree of confidence in the answer.  Stock Picks  To give a sense of the potential value of our discussions,
the attached charts show the panel’s responses to a pair of
questions about stock prices. Every day, there is a parade of
people on television touting stocks and offering predictions on
whether they will rise or fall. The first bar chart shows that
almost every member of our panel agrees or strongly agrees with
the proposition that predicting daily movements in stock prices
is impossible.  The panelists can also choose to include a short
description of the basis for their answers. Readers will find
references to a variety of scholarly articles explaining why
economists are skeptical of stock pickers. The poll thus
provides an introduction to the half-century of fact-based
research that informs the scholars’ opinions.  This agreement doesn’t imply that the panelists are slaves
to any particular ideology. The same experts disagreed as to
whether the level of stock prices in the late 1990s for dot-com-
type companies could be well-explained by appropriately
discounted projections of future dividends.  That the panel arrived at these two apparently inconsistent
answers is easy to explain. Stock picking is fraught with error.
That doesn’t mean that every price will be justified. Rather,
predicting when difficult-to-explain prices will adjust is
virtually impossible on a consistent basis.  The recent behavior of housing prices is a case in point:
Profiting from early warnings in 2003 or 2004 about a housing-
price bubble would have required very deep pockets and a great
deal of self-confidence.  Our hope is that the panel will improve public discussion
about economic-policy issues in three ways. First, for those
topics where the evidence is settled, let’s stop pretending
otherwise. There is no reason that every article that deals with
economics has to present two points of view.  Evidence Over Ideology  Second, the archive of panel answers may help identify
authors and topics for opinion pieces that are driven by
evidence rather than ideology. Op-eds, even those by reputable
analysts, often convey a false sense that research on a
particular issue is more settled than is the case. A skeptical
journalist or reader can use the panel’s answers to see where
there is consensus and where there isn’t.  Third, election season is often a time when many bizarre
economic proposals are floated. The panel will try to identify
these cases and provide commentary about why they are mistaken.
We chose to study economics because we believed that it can
contribute to improving  living standards  for everyone.  This remains true even in today’s complex and globalized
economy. However, we have also learned that the results of good
economic research are sometimes difficult to convey and often
easy to distort. By harnessing the wisdom of crowds, we hope to
distill the best economic knowledge and present it in a clear
and succinct format.  (Claudia Goldin is professor of economics at  Harvard
University , William Nordhaus is professor of economics at  Yale
University  and Richard Schmalensee is professor of economics and
management at the  MIT Sloan School of Management . Anil Kashyap
is professor of economics at the University of Chicago Booth
School of Business and a contributor to  Business Class . The
opinions expressed are their own.) 