-- Genting Malaysia Rises to 1-Month High on New York Proposal
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2012-01-05T08:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/genting-malaysia-rises-to-1-month-high-on-new-york-proposal.html
Genting Malaysia Bhd. (GENM) ’s shares
climbed to a one-month high on expectations its $4 billion plan
to build the biggest convention center in the U.S. may help
boost visitors to its nearby casino, the first in  New York City .  The convention and exhibition center will include hotel
rooms and an expansion of its casino in the Aqueduct Racetrack
in Queens, the Kuala Lumpur-based company said in a statement to
the Malaysian stock exchange today.  New York (STONY1)  Governor Andrew Cuomo yesterday called for replacing the Jacob Javits Convention
Center in Manhattan with the new 3.8 million-square-foot complex.  “It is a long-term planning that they do to make sure that
in the future, there will be more consistent flow of business
and people there,” Low Yee Huap, head of research at Hong Leong
Financial Group Bhd., said in an interview in Kuala Lumpur today.  The investment will extend the Malaysian company’s reach in
the U.S. after opening the New York City casino on Oct. 28 and
amid plans for a $3.8 billion casino-and-hotel complex in Miami.
The company, along with its parent  Genting Bhd. (GENT) , also owns and
operates gaming resorts in the U.K., Malaysia and  Singapore .  Genting Malaysia climbed 0.8 percent to 3.91 ringgit as of
4:01 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, set for its highest since Dec. 5.  Cuomo said in his State of the State speech in Albany, the
capital, that the  Jacob Javits Center  is “not competitive,”
adding that the proposed Genting project will eclipse  Chicago ’s
McCormick Place. The new development will include as many as
3,000 hotel rooms, he said.  Genting Malaysia’s New York unit is in talks with the state
and expects a binding agreement by the end of November, it said
in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  