-- Germany Asked Austria to Help Balance ‘Critical’ Power Grid
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-01-05T12:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/germany-asked-austria-to-help-stabilize-critical-power-grid.html
German  power grid  operator TenneT TSO
GmbH had to tap a backup fossil fuel-fired power plant in
Austria last month to stabilize the network after the country
shut down eight nuclear reactors in March.  TenneT, whose power lines stretch from Germany’s coast to
the Austrian border south of Munich and serve about 20 million
people, requested to fire up the station on Dec. 8 and Dec. 9 as
a “precautionary measure,” Ulrike Hoerchens, a spokeswoman for
TenneT, said today by phone.  The move was necessary amid projections of high winds in
the North and peak demand in the South while Block C of  RWE AG (RWE) ’s
 Grundremmingen  nuclear power plant wasn’t available, she said.  The nation’s four grid operators have warned of possible
power failures this winter in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy,
after  Chancellor Angela Merkel  shut more than 25 percent of
German atomic capacity following the Fukushima,  Japan , reactor
meltdowns.  Germany has since identified 2.1 gigawatts of oil-, coal-
and gas-fired plants at home and in neighboring Austria as
standby units to stabilize the networks.  While most of that reserve wasn’t needed and no large
industrial consumers were affected, “the event shows that there
can be tight situations in particular if the winter gets
colder,” Per Lekander, an analyst at UBS AG, wrote in a note
today. Germany’s average temperatures in December were the
fifth-warmest since 1881, according to the DWD weather bureau.  ‘Limited Positive Impact’  Temporary bottlenecks “imply upside risk to spot prices,
and could also have a limited positive impact on forward
curves,” Lekander wrote.  Amprion GmbH, whose 11,000-kilometer (6,800 miles) grid
serves about 27 million people in Germany, didn’t have to tap
any standby units, Marian Rappl, a spokesman for Amprion, said
today. “But the situation is critical and it’s good that we
have the reserve capacity,” he said by phone.  EnBW Transportnetze AG, which operates about 3,650
kilometers of transmission lines in the southwestern state of
Baden-Wuerttemberg, didn’t tap a backup plant, Regina Koenig, a
spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  Volker Kamm and Olivier Feix, spokesmen for 50Hertz
Transmission GmbH, the main grid operator in eastern Germany,
didn’t immediately answer phone calls and an e-mail.  The German newspaper Die Welt earlier today reported that
TenneT tapped the backup plant in  Austria .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  