-- German President Spares Merkel Crisis by Vowing to Stay on After ’Mistake’
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-01-05T08:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/german-president-spares-merkel-crisis-by-vowing-to-stay-on-after-mistake-.html
German President  Christian Wulff  said
his attempt to intervene in the publication of a story about a
home loan was a “terrible mistake,” though for now he spared
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  a crisis by vowing to remain in office.  Wulff, elected to the largely ceremonial post in 2010, has
been pilloried by politicians this week after reports that he
called a newspaper editor last month in an effort to block the
article, which revealed that he had taken out a mortgage from a
wealthy friend.  “I know that I’ve done nothing illegal, but didn’t do
everything right,” Wulff said in an interview with broadcasters
ARD and ZDF last night. “I carry out my responsibility gladly
and I took it on for five years.”  Before the interview, Merkel expressed “full confidence”
that Wulff, a former deputy chairman of her  Christian Democratic
Union , would answer outstanding issues. The chancellor would
have to find a replacement if Wulff were to step down, adding to
her challenges as she confronts  Europe ’s debt crisis. Merkel
resumes her public schedule today after the Christmas break,
receiving a group of carol singers at the chancellery in Berlin.  Bild ,  Germany ’s most-read newspaper, said this week that
the president called its editor, Kai Diekmann, on Dec. 12 and
left a voice message expressing anger at the forthcoming story
and threatening legal action.  $648,000 Loan  The next day, Bild reported that Wulff had negotiated a
500,000-euro ($648,000) loan from the wife of businessman Egon
Geerkens to pay for a new home when he was the state premier of
Lower Saxony in 2008. It said Wulff called Diekmann back later
and apologized for the tone and substance of the call.  The president said in yesterday’s interview that his
intention had been to delay publication until he returned from a
state trip to the Gulf region.  Bild disputed Wulff’s version, saying its editor-in-chief
understood the president’s phone call as an attempt to kill the
story, Deutschlandfunk reported today. “It was a call whose aim
clearly was to stop this report,” the radio station quoted
Nikolaus Blome, Bild’s Berlin bureau chief, as saying in an
interview.  Wulff “missed a further opportunity, and possibly the
last, to continue in office with dignity,” the newspaper said
today. “Never has an incumbent German president faced so much
criticism than Wulff over the bundle of dubious incidents.”  Public Support Waning  Public support for Wulff has declined since news of his
private loan broke last month, ARD television reported late
yesterday. Fifty percent of respondents said he should quit,
compared with 26 percent on Dec. 19, the broadcaster said. The
Jan. 2-4 poll of 500 people has a margin of error of as many as
3.1 percentage points.  “Anybody who holds high office must also know that he or
she will become the subject of reporting -- and not only on
issues that have to do with politics,” Merkel spokesman Georg
Streiter told reporters yesterday in Berlin.  Details of the private credit swirled last month, forcing
the president to apologize for failing to reveal the
transaction. He told reporters on Dec. 22 that he realized his
actions surrounding the loan were “irritating.”  Wulff, 52, was elected in June 2010 with the backing of
Merkel’s coalition after his predecessor,  Horst Koehler ,
unexpectedly quit amid criticism of comments he made about
Germany’s military mission in  Afghanistan . Wulff was elected
only after three rounds of voting in the Federal Assembly, and
Merkel’s majority in the assembly has since shrunk following
regional election defeats last year that she blamed on the debt
crisis.  The leader of the opposition Social Democrats, Sigmar Gabriel, reiterated that two presidential resignations in as
many years would be undesirable. Still, “nobody would wish for
a president who gives the impression that he’s not suitable for
the office, politically or stylistically,” Gabriel wrote on his
 Facebook page .  Wulff told yesterday’s interviewers that he would carry on
through the criticism rather than quit. Driving the point home,
he attempted to quote the 33rd U.S. president.  “If it’s too hot in the kitchen, you shouldn’t want to
become a cook, as Harry S. Truman said,” the president
remarked.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  