-- Germany Biggest Obstacle to Bailout-Fund Boost, Dutch Central Banker Says
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2012-01-05T23:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/germany-is-biggest-obstacle-to-raising-european-emergency-fund-knot-says.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Klaas Knot said  Germany  should support raising
the European emergency fund to help end the region’s debt
crisis.  “The most important obstacle lies in Germany, not in the
Netherlands,” Knot said in an interview on Dutch public
television last night. “I think that more money is needed and
we will use the time to convince our German colleagues.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has resisted calls to
ratchet up bailout funding amid warnings that the current amount
isn’t enough to safeguard nations such as Italy and  Spain .
Germany has instead focused on budget discipline as the best
means to stem the crisis now in its third year.  “We haven’t moved in the right direction and it’s also
clear that measures needed are happening too slowly and too
limited in size,” said Knot, who in July succeeded  Nout Wellink 
at the Dutch central bank. “A significant acceleration in
decision-making is needed.”  German lawmakers will probably resist increasing funds for
European bailouts to ease the debt crisis, two allies of Merkel
said yesterday, signaling opposition to a bigger firewall. The
500 billion-euro ($640 billion) ceiling for the permanent
European Stability Mechanism is scheduled to go into effect this
year.  Separately, Knot said he isn’t worried about the
depreciation of the euro against the  U.S. dollar . “It’s part of
the normal exchange rate fluctuation, even in historic
perspective the euro is remarkably stable even compared to other
currencies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  