-- German President Spars With Newspaper as Dispute Deepens
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-01-05T17:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/german-president-spars-with-newspaper-as-dispute-deepens.html
A public spat broke out between
German President  Christian Wulff  and the country’s largest
newspaper, deepening the dispute a day after Wulff said his
attempt to intervene over a story was a “terrible mistake.”  Bild, the country’s biggest selling newspaper, today
challenged Wulff’s statement in an interview late yesterday that
his Dec. 12 phone call to its editor, Kai Diekmann, was meant to
delay a story about a private home loan for a day, rather than
to block it. Wulff rebuffed a Bild request to publish the voice
mail he left on Diekmann’s phone.  “Those words, spoken in an extraordinarily emotional
situation, were meant exclusively for you,” Wulff wrote in a
 letter  to Diekmann that was made public by the president’s
office. Wulff said he was “astounded” that elements of the
message had been made public.  Wulff’s pledge not to resign has, for the moment, spared
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  the political challenge of pushing
through another presidential candidate. Still, questions
involving a private loan and Wulff’s subsequent conduct
escalated even as coalition leaders such as Vice Chancellor
Philipp Roesler called for an end to the debate.  Elected to the largely ceremonial post in 2010, Wulff has
been in the media spotlight since last month after Bild reported
he had negotiated a 500,000-euro ($640,000) loan from the wife
of a businessman friend, Egon Geerkens, to pay for a new home
when he was the state premier of Lower Saxony in 2008.  Renewed Pressure  After withstanding the initial round of criticism, Wulff
came under renewed pressure as reports of the phone call emerged
this week. Wulff said in yesterday’s interview on ARD and ZDF
television that his intention had been to delay publication
until he returned from a state trip to the Persian Gulf region.  Before the interview, Merkel expressed “full confidence”
that Wulff, a former deputy chairman of her  Christian Democratic
Union , would answer outstanding issues.  Wulff “missed a further opportunity, and possibly the
last, to continue in office with dignity,” Bild said today.
“Never has an incumbent German president faced so much
criticism than Wulff over the bundle of dubious incidents.”  Public support for Wulff has declined, ARD reported late
yesterday citing a poll. Fifty percent of respondents said he
should quit, compared with 26 percent on Dec. 19, it said. The
Jan. 2-4 poll of 500 people has a margin of error of as many as
3.1 percentage points.  Wulff, 52, was elected in June 2010 with the backing of
Merkel’s coalition after his predecessor,  Horst Koehler ,
unexpectedly quit. Wulff was elected only after three rounds of
voting in the Federal Assembly, and Merkel’s majority in the
assembly has since shrunk following regional election defeats
last year that she blamed on the debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  