-- Give Economy Hops With Microbrew Tax Cut: Christian DeBenedetti
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   D e B e n e d e t t i
-- 2012-01-05T00:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/give-economy-hops-with-beer-tax-cut-commentary-by-christian-debenedetti.html
With the president and Congress mired
in partisan backbiting, many lawmakers may be tempted to retreat
to a dark room for a cold beer. They would do well to make that
a craft beer.  Various high-ranking senators and representatives have been
working on a pair of bills that not only would make craft
brewing more competitive, but may also make a small contribution
to helping relieve the nation’s grinding unemployment.  This legislation would roll back excise taxes on small
brewing companies by anywhere from 11 percent to 50 percent. The
current tax rates, adopted in 1976 before the rise of micro- and
craft breweries in the 1990s, have never been updated, requiring
many brewers to pay levies calibrated for much larger operations
once considered small.  Lowering rates on these modern small brewers, which can
barely keep up with demand, would help one very bright spot in
the American economy.  The U.S. now has more than 1,900 breweries with a total of
100,000 domestic employees, earning an estimated $3 billion in
wages and benefits, according to the  Brewers Association , a
trade group of beermakers, distributors and suppliers. And 855
new craft breweries are in various stages of planning around the
country.  Most craft breweries are all-American success stories,
creating local jobs while bringing a bit of affordable joy to
many a Main Street. Overall U.S. beer sales have declined
slightly, but beer-loving Americans are drinking better. Craft
beer sales by value rose 15 percent in the first half of 2011,
while volume leapt 14 percent during the same period.  Neighborhood Breweries  Like bread, coffee, cheese and other dietary staples, beer
is going local. The average American now lives within 10 miles
of a craft brewery, which typically employs its neighbors and
often recycles spent grain for use as feed on nearby farms.  In early November, a craft-brew tasting at the Rayburn
House Office Building in  Washington  featured brands from across
the U.S. There was the  American Brewing Co. , which opened in
early 2011 in Edmonds, Washington. Another booth featured  Saint
Louis Brewery Inc. , a craft brewer in Budweiser-soaked Missouri.
The tasting event offered a reminder of the nation’s beery past.
In 1872, the U.S. had 4,000 breweries. By the early 1970s, the
number was down to 50, so the craft brew awakening represents a
return to form.  The push for changes in the  tax code  is being led by the
Brewers Association and a group of brewers and brewery
employees, including Patrick Conway, a founder of Cleveland-
based  Great Lakes Brewing Co. ; Greg Hardman, of Cincinnati-based
 Christian Moerlein Brewing Co. ; and Steve Hindy, president of
 Brooklyn Brewery .  At last count, the Small Brewer Reinvestment and Expanding
Workforce Act, or  Small BREW , had 147 co-sponsors on both sides
of the aisle in the  House of Representatives . Companion
 legislation  in the Senate had 37 bipartisan co-sponsors.  The bills would update the tax code, which was written long
before the popularization of craft beer. Small brewers with
annual production of as much as 60,000 barrels would have their
 tax rate  cut by 50 percent to $3.50 a barrel, while bigger
brewers making as many as 2 million barrels would have their
taxes lowered by $2 to $16 a barrel.  Another goal of the legislation is to raise the federal
definition of small brewery from 2 million barrels a year to as
much as 6 million barrels. This would help keep companies such
as  Boston Beer Co. (SAM)  and D.G.  Yuengling (0047953D)  & Son Inc. within the
boundaries of the small-brewery movement. Each sells roughly a
50th of the 100 million barrels that  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (BUD) 
sells each year in the U.S.  Beer-Making Jobs  Because small breweries lack economies of scale and must
pay more for raw materials, packaging, distribution and
marketing, they could use the tax savings to increase production
and add jobs. A  study  published in April 2011 by John Friedman
of  Harvard University  found the legislation could stimulate $865
million in economic activity over five years, adding more than
4,400 jobs in the first year and an average of 300 each year
after that.  The industry already generates more than $2.3 billion in
federal, state and local taxes. And while the cuts would reduce
 tax revenue , the losses would be more than offset by new payroll
and income levies.  Craft brewing is rejuvenating communities and local
economies. Consider, for example, the  Lazy Magnolia Brewing Co. ,
which started in 2003 in Kiln,  Mississippi , population 2,000.
Named for the flowers that grow along the banks of the nearby
Jordan River and, in particular, one malnourished specimen near
the back porch of the couple who founded the business, Lazy
Magnolia uses in its brewing process local ingredients -- like
sweet potatoes, roasted pecans and honey. It now has 20
employees.  The tax savings would make it easier for similar breweries
to expand, which would help lift local construction,
distribution and hospitality industries. Give Americans a craft
beer. The jobs will follow.  (Christian DeBenedetti is the author of the recently
published “The  Great American Ale Trail : The Craft Beer Lover’s
Guide to the Best Watering Holes in the Nation.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Christian DeBenedetti at  christiandebenedetti@mac.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  