-- GM Reports Improvements to Chevrolet Volt to Protect Battery
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-01-05T21:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/gm-announces-change-to-chevy-volt.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  said it will
improve the Chevrolet Volt’s vehicle structure and battery-
coolant system to better protect against fires after crashes.  GM is making the change in response to a National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration investigation, the automaker said
on its website. GM’s fixes may or may not conclude NHTSA’s
investigation, North America President  Mark Reuss  said.  “We are optimistic this will have a positive outcome,”
Reuss said on a conference call with journalists. “You’ve got
to ask NHTSA.”  The company said it’s asking all 8,000 Volt owners to bring
their cars to dealerships to have the changes made, including
strengthening part of the “vehicle safety structure” to better
protect the battery pack and adding a sensor in the reservoir of
the battery-coolant system. Future Volts will also have those
features, GM said.  NHTSA hasn’t concluded its investigation, the agency said
on its website. Preliminary results of a crash test indicate
GM’s changes “should address the issue.”  The agency started investigating the Volt after a side-
impact crash test in May led to a fire three weeks later.  During that test, the battery pack was broken open and some
of the vehicle’s coolant leaked into the battery,  Rob Peterson ,
a GM spokesman, said in a phone interview. When the car was
rotated as part of the test, more coolant leaked into the
battery pack and came in contact with a  circuit board , he said,
and over time, a reaction occurred and caught fire.  NHTSA replicated the fire in three more tests in November
and started an official investigation Nov. 25.  GM’s Fixes  To remedy the problem, GM will reinforce the structure on
the sides of the car to spread energy away from the battery
during a side-impact crash. The fix should prevent intrusion
into the battery pack, Peterson said.  The coolant sensor will notify the driver if coolant levels
are dropping fast to warn of potential leaks. If coolant levels
drop fast enough, the driver can’t recharge the battery,
Peterson said.  GM is voluntarily asking Volt owners to bring their cars in
for service before NHTSA has concluded the investigation. That
avoids designating the action as an official recall because it
isn’t being coordinated through NHTSA.  Lowered Demand  The investigation lowered demand for the car, according to
Bandon, Oregon-based CNW Marketing Research Inc. U.S. dealers
sold a total of 7,671 Volts last year, missing GM’s target of
10,000 for 2011.  GM plans to expand production of the Volt to 60,000 this
year, with 45,000 of the car earmarked for the U.S. Not
including sales to corporate fleet customers, GM sold 992 Volts
in December and ended the month with 4,200 in inventory.  It remains to be seen if GM can raise Volt sales to the
level that the company aims to produce, Reuss said. GM won’t
make too many, he said.  “What true demand is is a great unknown,” Reuss said.
“That’s a good question. We’re going to match supply with
demand.”  GM gained 4.8 percent to $22.17 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  