-- Gokarn Signals India Inflation May Prevent Lower Interest Rates: Economy
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-01-05T09:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/gokarn-signals-india-inflation-may-prevent-lower-interest-rates-economy.html
India ’s persistently high inflation
may prevent an imminent reversal of record interest-rate
increases, as a weakening rupee and oil’s rebound reduce the
scope for monetary easing, the central bank’s deputy chief said.  “The monetary cycle has peaked,”  Subir Gokarn , deputy
governor of the  Reserve Bank of India (RBI) , said at a conference in
Singapore today. “That does not necessarily say that a quick
reversal is in order because inflation risks are still visible,
still high.”  The  Reserve Bank  of India refrained from raising  interest
rates  last month after the economy expanded in the third quarter
at the slowest pace in two years. Pressure is mounting on Asian
central banks to ease monetary policy and protect growth as the
global rebound slows amid Europe’s debt crisis.  “It won’t be easy for the central bank to cut rates
aggressively,” said  Siddhartha Sanyal , chief economist for
India at  Barclays Capital  in Mumbai. “Inflation is still high.
Global commodity prices such as oil are still elevated and the
weaker rupee is adding to the import prices of these
commodities.”  Emerging markets  from  Turkey  to  Thailand  have already
lowered rates, with India’s scope to follow suit limited by the
highest inflation rate among the BRIC nations, which include
Brazil, Russia and China.  India “will have to cut rates at some point, maybe in the
second quarter or towards the end of the first quarter,” Sanyal
said, citing weakening economic growth.  ‘Very Concerned’  The RBI is “very concerned” about the impact of rupee
depreciation on inflation, Gokarn also said today. The rupee is
 Asia ’s worst performing currency in the past year, after sliding
more than 14 percent. It traded at 52.795 per dollar as of 2:24
p.m. in Mumbai.  The central bank remains more comfortable using open-market
operations to inject liquidity for now, because cutting the cash
reserve ratio would send a “premature” signal that the
monetary policy stance has changed, Gokarn said.  India’s food-price index fell for the first time in at
least 5 1/2 years after prices of onions, potatoes and wheat
declined, a report showed today. The gauge measuring wholesale
prices of agricultural products dropped 3.36 percent in the week
ended Dec. 24 from a year earlier, the commerce ministry said.  Regional Inflation  Elsewhere in the region today,  Australia  unexpectedly
reported that its  trade surplus  narrowed in November as
shipments of resources abroad slowed while aircraft imports
increased. Exports exceeded imports by A$1.38 billion ($1.4
billion), a government release showed in Sydney. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 10 economists was for a
surplus of A$1.65 billion.  Taiwan’s consumer prices unexpectedly rose at the fastest
pace in 22 months in December as the cost of food surged, with a
report showing inflation accelerated to 2.03 percent.  In the  Philippines , inflation eased to an 11-month low of
4.2 percent in December, a report showed. Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco said today that the central
bank “will make adjustments as necessary” to rates as easing
price pressures bolster confidence that inflation remains
manageable “over the policy horizon.”  In  Europe  today, a government report may show German retail
sales rose 0.2 percent in November from a month earlier,
according the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  Europe Reports  Other reports may show the consumer-price index in the
Netherlands fell 0.5 percent in December from a month earlier
and growth in the U.K. services industry slowed last month.
Ireland releases  labor market (IEUERT)  figures for December.  In the U.S., a Labor Department report may show first-time
claims for  unemployment (INJCJC)  benefits fell to 375,000 in the week
ended Dec. 31 from 381,000 a week earlier, a separate survey of
economists showed. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-
manufacturing index may have ended a three-month slide and risen
to 53 in December from 52 a month earlier.  The U.S. Labor Department tomorrow is scheduled to release
its monthly employment report, which economists surveyed expect
will show an increase last month of 150,000 in nonfarm payrolls
from a 120,000 gain the previous month. The nation’s
unemployment rate is forecast at 8.7 percent.  A jump in oil prices risks stoking price pressures just as
they start to ease, with crude trading at $102.98 a barrel in
 New York , near the highest level since May 2011. It’s climbed 29
percent in the past three months amid speculation that U.S.
crude stockpiles are shrinking and as tension rose over  Iran ’s
nuclear program.  Fiscal Erosion  Higher fuel costs risk worsening fiscal balances in a
number of countries, including India, that subsidize necessities
for their populations. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said Dec.
31 India must reform its tax code and phase out fuel subsidies
to stabilize the South Asian nation’s finances. State-run
refineries sell diesel, kerosene and cooking gas below cost.  India’s benchmark  inflation (INFINFY)  gauge slowed to a one-year low
of 9.11 percent in November from 9.73 percent the previous month.
By comparison,  China ’s main index of prices rose 4.2 percent in
November from a year before.  Manufacturing and services growth improved in India in
December, a sign that Asia’s third-largest economy so far is
withstanding the fallout from Europe’s debt crisis. The
Purchasing Managers’ Index for manufacturing and services
climbed to 54.2 in December, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics said this week. Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  India’s benchmark repurchase rate is 8.5 percent after 13
increases since mid-March 2010. Policy makers next meet on Jan.
24 to decide on borrowing costs. Economic expansion moderated to
a pace of 6.9 percent in the three months through September from
a year earlier.  Downside risks to the global economy are escalating,
International Monetary Fund Deputy Managing Director Zhu Min
said at the conference in  Singapore  Gokarn was attending today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  