-- Gold Has Longest Rally in 10 Weeks on Iran ‘Fear,’ U.K. Warning on Hormuz
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-01-05T19:47:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/gold-climbs-as-asian-demand-ahead-of-dragon-year-offsets-sales-after-rally.html
Gold futures rose, capping the
longest rally in 10 weeks, after U.K. Defense Secretary Philip Hammond said the country may take military action if  Iran 
carries out its threat to block the Strait of Hormuz.  Any attempt by Iran to close the waterway in retaliation
for sanctions against oil exports would be “illegal and
unsuccessful,” and the  Royal Navy  will join any action to keep
shipping lanes open, Hammond said today in a speech in
 Washington . Gold climbed as much as 0.9 percent to a two-week
high.  “Iran is gradually becoming a big source of concern, and
people are worried what could happen next,” said  Michael Smith ,
the president of T&K Futures and Options in Port St. Lucie,
Florida. “Gold is gaining on the fear.”  Gold futures for February delivery advanced 0.5 percent to
settle at $1,620.10 an ounce at 1:40 p.m. on the Comex in  New
York . The most-active contract rose for the fourth straight
session, the longest rally since late October.  Earlier, the price fell as much as 0.9 percent as the
dollar’s rally eroded the appeal of the metal as an alternative
investment.  Dennis Gartman , an economist and the editor of the Suffolk,
Virginia-based Gartman Letter, wrote that he has become
“officially bullish” on gold after the price slumped 3.4
percent in the fourth quarter.  Silver futures for March delivery rose 0.7 percent to
$29.296 an ounce on the Comex. Earlier, the price dropped as
much as 1.4 percent.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , palladium futures for
March delivery fell 1.4 percent to $644.40 an ounce. Platinum
futures for April delivery dropped 0.6 percent to $1,418 an
ounce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  