-- LG Electronics, Samsung Join Google TV Alliance Ahead of Product Rollout
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-01-06T00:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/google-tv-coalition-adds-lg-mediatek-ahead-of-electronics-show.html
LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , Samsung
Electronics Co. and  MediaTek Inc. (2454)  are joining Google Inc.’s
Internet-TV coalition and plan to begin unveiling new products
during next week’s Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.  LG plans to showcase products at the conference, with
Samsung unveiling TVs later this year, Google said today in a
blog posting. Google TV, introduced in 2010, also has the
support of Marvell Technology Group Ltd. and  Sony Corp. (6758)  Vizio
Inc., another existing partner, will hold private demonstrations
of new products at the electronics show as well.  “Google TV is about bringing new entertainment and
innovation from the Web to TV,” Mountain View, California-based
Google said on its blog. “Our team along with our partners are
pleased to bring more  Google (GOOG)  TV powered products to more people,
across more devices in more countries in 2012.”  Google is shoring up support for the effort following slow
initial sales for Google TV products. A lack of authorized
content from media companies has made it harder to attract
consumers to the idea. And one early partner, the set-top-box
maker Logitech International SA, backed away from the coalition
after disappointing orders.  New Version  Still, the platform has gained popularity since an updated
version debuted in October, Google said. The company develops
the software for the service and relies on manufacturers of TVs
and other electronics to build products that work with the
technology. Google is counting on the lineup to give it a
foothold in consumers’ living rooms and challenge products from
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   “Since launching the update, we’ve seen our activation
rates more than double,” Google said. “New features and new
apps are coming to the living room via Google TV almost every
day. We now have more than 150 apps, which developers have
specifically built for TV.”  Samsung had said in November that it was close to reaching
an agreement to make televisions that run Google TV. LG also was
expected to unveil a TV with the technology at the Consumer
Electronics Show, people familiar with the matter said that
month.  Google shares fell 1.4 percent to $659.01 at the close in
New York. The stock gained 8.7 percent last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  