-- Google Decision Hasn’t Been Made by EU’s Antitrust Regulator
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-01-05T15:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/google-complaint-decision-hasn-t-been-reached-by-eu-s-antitrust-regulator.html
European Union regulators haven’t
decided whether they should file a formal complaint against
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  over possible discrimination against rivals in
search results, the EU’s antitrust chief said.  “The commission is to date not in a position to say
whether its investigation will lead to issuing a statement of
objections,” EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said
in a statement published on the European Parliament’s website in
Brussels dated yesterday.  The EU is investigating Google over claims it discriminated
against other services in its search results and stopped some
websites from accepting rival ads.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is among
companies that asked the agency to examine the  Mountain View ,
California-based search engine.  “A thorough assessment of the several categories of
allegations of infringements of competition rules brought
forward by several complainants is necessary,” Almunia said in
a written response to a question from an EU lawmaker.  The Association of Spanish Newspaper Publishers is the
latest to complain to regulators about Google’s behavior. The
group said on Dec. 23 that it wrote to the commission to raise
concerns that Google “abuses its dominant position” by using
news content without paying for it.  If news providers opt out of appearing in Google’s search
results, they effectively “disappear from the Internet,” the
association said. It declined to comment further today.  Belgian Newspaper Case  Google continues “to work closely with the European
Commission to explain our business,” Al Verney, a spokesman for
the company, said in an e-mailed statement today.  The commission is still considering whether to treat the
Spanish letter as a formal complaint, said a press officer who
couldn’t be identified in line with official policy.  Google dropped some Belgian content from its online news
site last year after an appeals court ruling blocked it from
publishing links to local newspapers. It removed and later
restored their stories from its search engine after an agreement
with their copyright management group.  El Mundo reported the Spanish newspapers’ complaint last
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 