-- Iceland’s Hardardottir Committed to Adopting Euro on Tighter Fiscal Ties
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-01-05T10:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/iceland-s-hardardottir-committed-to-euro.html
Iceland’s Finance Minister Oddny G. Hardardottir said she’s committed to the island nation adopting
the euro as the bloc will emerge stronger from its debt crisis
amid tightening fiscal ties and discipline.  Iceland opened talks on joining European Union in 2010, two
years after the nation’s banking system and economy collapsed.
The country, which has since relied on capital controls to
protect its currency, is pushing ahead with membership talks as
 Europe  struggles to contain a debt crisis.  “I’m not concerned about the future of the euro,” said
Hardardottir, who was named finance minister in a Cabinet shake-
up last week, in an interview yesterday in Reykjavik. “The
demand is that countries become more disciplined in their
economic management. That’s something that we should also take
to heart, although we’ve shown great effort and performance in
that regard following the economic collapse.”  As the  economy (ICGPSAQ)  emerges from its slump, Iceland has started
easing currency restrictions, which the central bank estimates
locked in about $4.3 billion in krona assets. The country will
probably vote on accession to the EU next year. A November poll
by Capacent Gallup published by Frettatiminn showed 53.1 percent
of Icelanders want to complete accession talks, while 46.9
percent want to withdraw the bid.  Joining the euro won’t take place “overnight,”
Hardardottir, 54, said. While the krona may “always need some
sort of  capital controls ,” it’s now important to get rid of a
“majority” because “they impede business and economic
growth,” she said.  Cabinet Shake-up  Hardardottir, Iceland’s first female finance minister, took
over on Dec. 30 when Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir
dismissed Economy Minister Arni Pall Arnason and Fisheries and
Agriculture Minister Jon Bjarnason to create more unity in the
Cabinet. Bjarnason said in a statement that he left the
government because of his opposition to joining the EU. Former
Finance Minister Steingrimur J. Sigfusson took over as economy
minister.  Iceland, whose banks defaulted on $85 billion in 2008,
completed a 33-month  International Monetary Fund  program in
August. The Washington-based fund expects Iceland’s economy to
grow faster than the average for the euro area this year. It
also costs less to insure against an Icelandic sovereign default
than it does to hedge against such an event in struggling
European countries such as Spain and  Italy , derivatives show.  Issuing Debt  Iceland expects in “coming years” to whittle its debt
level down to 60 percent of gross domestic product from 88
percent and to meet the euro area’s deficit requirements “well
within that time,” Hardardottir said.  The government presented a budget in October that included
the equivalent of a value-added tax on lenders, raised taxes on
natural resources, increased capital gains taxes and reduced
spending. The budget targets a government deficit of 1 percent
of GDP this year, compared to an estimated deficit of 2.6
percent last year.  The country may sell another bond to international
investors this year, after issuing a $1 billion five-year bond
in June, Hardardottir said. “It would be desirable to issue
debt with longer maturities, such as 10 or 15-years. Still, no
decisions have been made in this regard and we can’t comment on
what yield on Icelandic Eurobonds we deem to be acceptable.”  Easing Controls  Iceland’s central bank is trying to ease capital controls
without triggering a krona slump that risks fueling inflation.
Policy makers are also seeking to protect the economy from the
fallout of the euro crisis, which threatens to sap global
growth. The bank left rates unchanged at its latest meeting in
December, after raising borrowing costs twice last year.  The krona has slipped 3.5 percent against the euro over the
past year, while inflation has hovered at about 5 percent since
July. The bank targets 2.5 percent price growth.  The economy grew at the fastest pace since the second
quarter of 2007 in the three months through September, the
statistics office said on Dec. 7. GDP grew a quarterly 4.7
percent, after shrinking 3.6 percent in the previous period, the
office said. The rebound was driven by a 6.8 percent increase in
exports, while household spending grew 1.1 percent.  Iceland’s $12 billion economy will grow 2.4 percent this
year, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said in November. The euro area, by comparison, will grow 0.2
percent this year.  Icesave Pay out  A decision in 2008 to ignore banks’ obligations to
bondholders and shield the economy from a payout several times
the size of its national output helped spur Iceland’s recovery,
according to Nobel Laureate  Paul Krugman . Moody’s Investors
Service last month said it maintained Iceland at the lowest
investment grade level as potential liabilities for losses
stemming from failed lender  Landsbanki Islands hf (LAIS) ’s Icesave
accounts are lower than previously estimated.  The failure of Landsbanki in 2008 threatened the savings of
about 350,000 British and Dutch depositors. They were repaid by
their governments, which then turned to Iceland for compensation
of about $5.2 billion. Iceland last year started payments on as
much as $11 billion to depositors from the estate of the failed
lender.  “The most important task now, when we’re getting close to
bridging the gap in the budget which we expect by 2014, is to
look further ahead and map the country’s finances into the
future,” Hardardottir said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 