-- Hildebrand Will Remain at SNB Following Criticism of Wife’s Currency Trade
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-01-05T17:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/hildebrand-will-remain-at-snb-following-criticism-of-wife-s-currency-trade.html
Philipp Hildebrand said he’ll stay at
the helm of the  Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  and expressed regret that he
didn’t curb his wife’s currency trading as he rounded on
political opponents for trying to undermine his position.  Hildebrand, 48, said he acted appropriately in his role,
speaking publicly for the first time about a currency
transaction that led to calls for his resignation. He also said
the Zurich-based  central bank  will look into ways of improving
transparency and regulations on personal financial ethics.  “I acted not only according to the rules, but also in an
appropriate manner,” Hildebrand said at a briefing in Zurich
today. He said he realized that people have “questions” and
that he shouldn’t have let his wife make the dollar purchase.  Pressure on the SNB head to step down increased after local
media reported he used insider knowledge to his advantage. While
the central bank agreed to publish its rulebook yesterday and an
independent probe cleared him of wrongdoing, the purchase of
$504,000 by his wife in August, three weeks before the SNB
imposed a franc cap, was seen as “sensitive” by investigators.
An employee at private bank  Bank Sarasin (BSAN)  helped leak the
transactions to Hildebrand’s political opponents.  “I regret that some circles, who for years have regarded
themselves as vehement champions of  Switzerland ’s bank secrecy,
now have no qualms about serious violations of that bank
secrecy, in order to pursue their political aims,” Hildebrand
said. “They are damaging the interests of Switzerland.”  Charity  Hildebrand said today his spouse, Kashya, made the dollar
transaction without his knowledge. He informed the SNB on the
following day and later gave the resulting profit to charity.  “My wife has a strong personality, let’s put it that
way,” Hildebrand said of Kashya, who previously worked at a
hedge fund. “She’d expressed the thoughts already that the
dollar was much too low. I only blame myself that I didn’t
reverse the transaction.”  Hildebrand joined the central bank in 2003, becoming its
youngest ever policy maker, and took over as president in
January 2010. Before that he was chief investment officer at
private banks Vontobel Group in Zurich and Geneva-based Union
Bancaire Privee.  Hildebrand’s Policy  As head of the SNB, Hildebrand helped toughen financial
regulation, forcing  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Credit Suisse Group AG to boost
capital buffers. He also lowered  borrowing costs (SZLTTR)  to zero and in
September introduced the first currency ceiling since the 1970s
to help protect the economy after the franc reached a record
high against the euro, trading near parity.  Bank Sarasin said on Jan. 3 it fired the employee who
helped pass account information to Christoph Blocher, vice
president of the  Swiss People’s Party , who had called for
Hildebrand’s resignation over currency interventions in 2010.
The Swiss People’s Party said in a statement today that
Hildebrand is “no longer viable” in his role.  Zurich state prosecutors said today they have opened a
criminal investigation into a possible breach of the banking
secrecy law by the employee, who worked in the bank’s
information-technology unit.  “I even have a certain sympathy for that person because he
apparently thought that something was wrong” and acted out of
ethical motives, Hildebrand said. “But it seems he contacted
the wrong people and the whole issue spiraled out of control.”  Property Sale  A report commissioned by the SNB Bank Council, the central
bank’s supervisory board, last month said that there was “no
evidence of misuse of privileged information.” Under SNB
compliance rules, board members are forced to maintain currency
positions for at least six months. The government reiterated
yesterday that it had “confidence” in Hildebrand and said it
had no reason to doubt the findings of the probe.  The bank council is looking for ways of improving the
central bank’s code of conduct, Hansueli Raggenbass, head of the
central bank’s council, said at the briefing.  “However, the current rules are in accordance with
European standards,” he said. “They are modeled on the
European Central Bank rules.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  