-- Lilly’s 2012 Earnings Forecast Misses Analysts’ Estimates Dropping Shares
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-01-05T21:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/lilly-s-2012-earnings-forecast-misses-analysts-estimates-shares-decline.html
Eli Lilly & Co., (LLY)  maker of the
antipsychotic Zyprexa, provided 2012 forecasts that missed
analyst estimates and said sales of the patent-losing drug are
falling faster than expected.  Full-year profit will be $3.10 to $3.20 a share, less than
the average estimate of $3.67 by 19  analysts (LLY)  surveyed by
Bloomberg. Annual revenue may be between $21.8 billion and $22.8
billion, the Indianapolis-based company said today in a
statement. Analysts had expected $22.8 billion.  Earnings excluding some items for 2011 met or exceeded the
company’s forecast of $4.30 to $4.35 a share, Lilly said. The
drugmaker is investing in research, seeking to overcome the loss
of patents on its best-selling medication Zyprexa, with revenue
of $5.03 billion in 2010, and other medicines, without a major
merger. Zyprexa sales are expected to decline by more than $3
billion this year, Lilly said.  “The guidance came in well below expectations,” said
 Seamus Fernandez , an analyst for Leerink Swann & Co., in a
telephone interview. “The patent loss of Zyprexa means revenue
is coming down faster than people expected.”  Lilly declined 1 percent to $40.30 at the close of  New York 
trading.  The forecasts came in lower than analysts expected because
Zyprexa international sales are declining rapidly, Lilly Chief
Financial Officer Derica Rice said on a conference call today.  European Sales  “We are seeing faster sales erosion in  Europe ” for
Zyprexa than for similar antipsychotic drugs that lost patent
protection in the past, Rice said. The company’s internal
estimates for Zyprexa 2012 sales were $500 million lower than
analyst estimates, he said.  Analysts had estimated $2.07 billion in Zyprexa sales this
year, according to a survey by Bloomberg. The analysts expected
Zyprexa to generate $4.54 billion in 2011.  Lilly will keep operating expenses almost unchanged this
year, Rice said on the call. Analysts had expected a reduction
of $250 million to $300 million.  “The shortfall is primarily due to Lilly’s plan to
maintain SG&A spending at current levels, rather than cut, as
their peers have done in the face of patent expiries,” said
 Barbara Ryan  of Deutsche Bank in New York, in a research note.
“This will likely be viewed as a disappointment to most.”  Research Costs  Unlike other pharmaceutical companies, Lilly is continuing
to spend heavily on research and development, Fernandez said.
That strategy will reveal itself over the next few years as
results from drugs in development come in, he said. The only way
to know if the plan works is to wait for data, Fernandez said.  Research and development expenses this year will be $5
billion to $5.3 billion, Lilly said today.  “2012 is an important year for Lilly, having entered the
period when we face patent expirations on some of our largest
products, most notably Zyprexa late last year and Cymbalta in
the U.S. at the end of 2013,” said Chief Executive Officer  John Lechleiter  in the statement. “We’ve been preparing to meet
these challenges for many years, and have the plans in place to
enable us to bridge this period and return to sustainable growth
after 2014.”  Cymbalta, approved for the treatment of depression, anxiety
disorder and fibromyalgia, generated sales of $3.5 billion in
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The drugmaker has treatments for Alzheimer’s, diabetes and
cancer in final-stage trials. As Lilly awaits these results, the
company is focusing effort on growth areas such as emerging
markets and animal health, Lechleiter said.  Research Costs  “This may be Lilly saying, ‘We’ve cut as much as we’re
going to cut, and we’re going to maintain research and
development at a fairly healthy level,” said Anthony Butler, an
analyst for  Barclays Capital  in New York, in a telephone
interview.  Lilly doesn’t plan any large deals, Lechleiter reiterated
on call.  “We are going to continue on the path we’ve been on in
terms of what you might expect in deal making smaller deals,
certainly nothing approaching that larger size,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 