-- Times Co., Washington Post Expand Policing of Article Pilfering
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-01-05T15:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/times-co-washington-post-expand-policing-of-article-pilfering.html
New York Times Co. (NYT) ,  Washington Post
Co. (WPO) , Associated Press and 26 other news companies began a joint
venture today to police websites that use their articles without
consent and demand fees for legitimate use.  The NewsRight venture is a for-profit entity spun out of an
Associated Press program started two years ago to look at ways
to stem the proliferation of pilfered content online, known as
“scraping,” and capitalize on a news-reading audience that is
migrating to the Web. Large news organizations have been
suffering financial losses as a result of scraping, according to
David Westin, 59, the former head of  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC News
who became NewsRight’s chief executive officer in April.  Digital media companies such as  AOL Inc. (AOL) ’s  Huffington Post 
have increased audience and advertisers while traditional
publishers have seen revenue and readership declines, leading
news operations like the New York Times to take better command
of its online business. The Times introduced an online
subscription in March that generated more than 324,000 paying
customers as of the end of September, according to the company.  “The overall appetite for news in the country is going up
not down,” Westin said in an interview. “At the same time the
money to hire professional reporters is going down -- there’s
something wrong when those two things are happening.”  NewsRight, which has more than $30 million in investments
and a full-time staff of 11 people, has been been gathering data
on sites that scrape articles. Many of the sites will take an
article wholesale from a local newspaper and surround it with
advertising, according to Westin.  “Often its websites you wouldn’t recognize, but they often
come up in a search,” he said.  ASCAP for Newspapers  Proprietary software developed by the  Associated Press  lets
NewsRight understand how much traffic these sites generate from
the content. The individual news organizations will decide what
to do with that information, according to Westin, who said in
some cases these websites are making fair use of articles.  “The Huffington Post may rewrite a paragraph from a Times
piece and it’s not in the language of the original report and
it’s not necessarily something to be concerned about,” he said.  NewsRight’s tracking program was designed to ease the
burden on publishers who often must spend time and resources
seeking out sites that violate copyrights and determine which
ones may be profiting the most from their content.  The larger aim for NewsRight is to capitalize on interest
among digital enterprises that want to legitimately use content,
much the way the  music industry  manages rights through ASCAP,
which helps musicians get paid for their songs played in public.  “I’m really confident there’s real value being captured by
other companies that’s not being brought back to the newspapers
that create the articles,” Westin said. “We hope to change
that.”  Other investors in NewsRight include Advance Publications
Inc., Axel Springer Group, Hearst Newspapers,  McClatchy Co. (MNI) ,
 Media General Inc. (MEG)  and the  E.W. Scripps Co. (SSP)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  