-- India’s Bond Yields Fall to Two-Week Low on Rate-Cut Speculation
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-01-05T12:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/india-s-bond-yields-fall-to-two-week-low-on-rate-cut-speculation.html
India ’s 10-year bonds gained, pushing
yields to the lowest level in two weeks, on speculation the
central bank will cut  interest rates  to support a slowing
economy.  The nation’s monetary-policy cycle has “peaked,”  Reserve
Bank  of India Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said at a conference
in  Singapore  today. The bank boosted interest  rates (INRPYLD)  13 times in
the last two years to curb inflation. Food-price  index (INWHFOAY)  fell for
the first time in at least 5 1/2 years after prices of onions,
potatoes and wheat declined. India’s  factory output (INPIINDY)  shrank 5.1
percent in October from a year earlier, government data showed
last month.  “Investors are bullish on bonds as more and more people
are getting convinced about the possibility of a rate cut,”
said Paresh Nayar, Mumbai-based head of money-market and
currency trading at FirstRand Ltd.  The yield on the 8.79 percent notes due November 2021 fell
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.33 percent in
Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system. That was
the lowest since Dec. 22.  The gauge measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products dropped 3.36 percent in the week ended Dec. 24 from a
year earlier, the commerce ministry said in a statement in  New
Delhi  today. That’s the lowest level since at least April 2006,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The government isn’t comfortable with current bond yields
and the central bank may take further actions to bring down the
yields, a finance ministry official told reporters in New Delhi
today.  The finance ministry’s  cash (RSPORRPO)  position is comfortable and no
additional borrowings may be required for the year ending March
31, the official said, declining to be identified citing
government policy.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in funding costs,
fell one basis point to 7.73 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  