-- Indonesia Mindful of Inflation Amid Rate-Cut Room, Sarwono Says
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-01-05T06:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/indonesia-mindful-of-inflation-amid-rate-cut-room-sarwono-says.html
Bank  Indonesia  remains mindful of
inflation even as it sees room to cut interest rates further if
needed, Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said.  Gains in the rupiah are helping reduce imported price
pressures and policy makers are “happy” with the trend of
easing inflation, Sarwono said in an interview in Singapore
today. The central bank’s 2012 inflation target for prices to
rise 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent will likely be met, he said. The
next policy meeting is scheduled for Jan. 12.  Indonesia’s  inflation (IDCPIY)  slowed for a fourth straight month in
December to the lowest level since March 2010, an easing that
may give the central bank scope to resume rate cuts as  Europe ’s
growth prospects deteriorate. Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution and his board left the benchmark rate at 6 percent last
month after reductions in October and November, joining  New
Zealand  and  South Korea  in holding borrowing costs.  “The room is there as currently inflation is below our
target, but there’ll be pressure from administered prices
because there’s a possibility in April that the government will
limit the domestic fuel subsidies,” Sarwono said. “Adjustments
in domestic fuel prices will have an impact on inflation and
it’s important for the central bank to monitor the second-round
effects.”  Indonesia plans to end the sale of subsidized fuel to
private cars in the greater Jakarta area in April, the Jakarta
Post reported Jan. 3, citing Agus Budihartono, a committee
member at BPH Migas, the nation’s regulator for the oil and gas
downstream industry.  Consumer prices (IDCPIY)  rose 3.79 percent from a year earlier in
December, the  Central Bureau of Statistics  said this week.
Inflation was 4.15 percent in November.  “We are happy with the trend of inflation which is coming
down,” Sarwono said. “The combination of monetary policy
responses and our flexible  exchange rate  with the appreciation
of the rupiah is helping reduce inflation, especially imported
inflation.”  The rupiah has gained about 0.4 percent since reaching a
17-month low of 9,240 against the U.S. dollar on Nov. 29.  Indonesia’s economy probably grew 6.5 percent in last year,
Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  said at a press briefing in
Jakarta today. The nation’s budget deficit in 2011 was about
1.27 percent of gross domestic product, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  