-- Information Technology's Dangerous Trend in Africa
-- B y   N d u b u i s i   E k e k w e
-- 2012-01-05T21:03:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/information-technology-s-dangerous-trend-in-africa.html
     For the past few decades, emerging technologies such as
biotechnology, microelectronics,  information technology  and
communications technologies have become central to the
socioeconomic development of nations. These technologies
improve productivity and facilitate better  living standards 
when they penetrate into societies. Among them, information
technology (IT) has become the most dominant; IT has
revolutionized almost every aspect of our lives, public and
private, by connecting individuals, institutions and
governments in mutually dependent ways. With its ease of
adoption, this interdependence has scaled rapidly, unlike any
other technology in modern history. In Africa, for
example, despite decades of using electricity, no one can
claim that the continent has fully adopted it. The same
applies to the aerospace and biochemical industries, among
others.  IT is good for developing countries — it empowers people
and improves their lives. But, in many African countries, the
successes afforded by IT can backfire if it becomes a
too-dominant focus. Take  Nigeria  for example: Despite decades
of crude oil exploration, it cannot claim that it has
developed indigenous domain expertise in that industry. If the
MNCs depart, Nigeria will cease to remain an oil-producing
nation, as it lacks the local ability to explore, extract and
sustain production. But in the IT industry, most Nigerian
firms are well-positioned for any challenge.  The success of IT in Africa has reached a level where it
is being dangerously over-emphasized. From The  World Bank  to
The  African Union , everyone is talking about IT. IT events are
very common everywhere, not to mention the
Google, Microsoft, and Blackberry platform-based competitions
that are being endlessly unleashed as these brands jockey for
position on the continent. The Nigerian government has created
a new ministry to focus solely on IT and related areas. And
African leaders are neglecting most non-IT technologies.
Across most African universities, the only funded and active
labs are the IT labs. University administrators are happy to
tout how they equipped IT labs, though everything else is
broken. Agricultural engineering students are more focused on
IT than on learning to build next-generation farm machinery.
It's a troubling pattern, as everyone wants to be seen as
IT-savvy.  While IT can be applied to any field, the way  Africa  is
promoting it sets a dangerous precedent. In my
continent, "information technology" has become synonymous with
"technology" itself. If you don't know IT, you're not a
techie. You can master  diesel engines  and polymer
technology, but without expertise in IT, few believe that you
belong in the technology sector.  So, what's the danger? Everyone wants to be an IT guy. No
one remembers that we still need food. At the University of
Nairobi, I recently asked a group of agricultural science
students about their plans upon graduation. Only one wanted to
stay in agriculture; others are making apps for farmers.
Yes, they know more about mobile operating systems and mobile
payments than they do about farming! The farms are now IT
labs. And while you can simulate farming on tablets, you can't
eat the virtual fruit.  Pick up a typical newspaper on the continent, and you'll
find that the technology column has been changed to an IT
column. Newspapers write about Google, Blackberry, Facebook
and Apple in the technology section, but non-IT companies —
though they're technology firms — are rarely reported on. Tech
journalism is now IT journalism. Even the governments have
confused technology policy with IT policy.  I firmly believe that IT has helped Africa, and that it
has a role to play as the continent advances. But, there needs
to be a balance. The continent needs techies in
mining, geology, semiconductors, agriculture, chemicals, and
other areas besides IT, and government must ensure that IT
does not create a situation that will destroy the continent's
capacity to feed her citizens and compete in the future.
 