-- Information Is Free but Only Because Advertisers Pay: Ezra Klein
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-01-05T00:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/information-is-free-but-only-because-advertisers-pay-ezra-klein.html
For much of the 19th century,
newspapers were financed by political parties. It was a
transparent, transactional relationship: The newspaper would
officially partner with a political party, and in return they
received direct infusions of cash, customers and even news.  The cash would come from the party’s budget, the customers
from the party’s base and the news from the party’s politicians.
In return, the party had total control over what the newspaper
did and didn’t publish.  Yet by the end of the 20th century, there were hardly any
party-affiliated newspapers left. Many people assume that this
was a triumph of journalistic ethics over partisan politics. But
in a paper published in the November 2011 edition of the
 American Political Science Review , Maria Petrova suggests that
the real story is less inspiring.  “Newspapers’ independence was positively related to the
local profitability of advertising,” she  writes . “In the areas
with faster-growing advertising markets, newspapers were more
likely to be independent. The effect of advertising worked both
through the entry of new newspapers and through changes in the
affiliation of existing newspapers.”  In other words, the news found a more lucrative patron than
political parties: advertisers. This business model, though,
required a different news model. “If the profitability of
advertising is high, then it is costly for media outlets to
distort their news coverage in the direction desired by a
subsidizing group,” Petrova writes. “Any deviation from the
coverage that maximizes audience means the loss of audience and
the loss of corresponding advertising revenues.”  Strategy Had Changed  That was, in many ways, a good thing. The “objective”
newspaper was certainly preferable to the propaganda outlets
that preceded it. But objectivity wasn’t just about the news. It
was also about keeping audiences large and advertisers happy. It
was part of a business strategy. That meant it could often
induce a kind of studied inoffensiveness, an unwillingness to
speak truths that audiences didn’t want to hear. Still, the
post-advertising newspapers were trustworthy, independent
sources of information. Before moving to the advertising model,
they weren’t.  Nor is the news the only form of mass information that
appears free while actually supporting itself through
advertising. One of the most mind-bending facts of our
information culture is that almost every major medium of
information supports itself by advertising.  Radio? Advertisers. Magazines? Advertisers. Television?
Advertisers. Google? Advertisers. Facebook? Advertisers.
Twitter? Advertisers. Perhaps the only major exceptions to this
rule are books, which are supported by sales, and Wikipedia,
which is supported largely through donations.  From an economic standpoint, most information is simply a
vehicle for advertising. We see the advertising as a
distraction. But so far as the media company’s bottom line goes,
the advertising is the point. Without the advertising, the
information wouldn’t exist. So the history of information, in
the U.S. at least, is the history of platforms that could
support advertising.  That doesn’t make advertising evil, or platforms that rely
on it untrustworthy. In important ways, advertisers are the
ideal sponsors for information. There are many of them, so no
individual advertiser wields total power. They are, themselves,
trying to convey information that consumers often find useful.
And their interests are sufficiently narrow that it’s rare for
the information they’re sponsoring to truly pose a problem for
them -- Macy’s, for instance, has few opinions on defense
policy.  Consumers Want Free  They blend into the background so well that we can
occasionally forget that they are there. Technology optimists
like to say that “information wants to be free.” Perhaps the
truer way to put it is that consumers want information to be
free. And advertising makes it look free. But being free and
looking free are not the same thing. In fact, they can be even
more different than being free and being expensive, because at
least in that comparison, the difference is obvious and easy to
evaluate.  This is truer on the Internet than it ever was in
newspapers or on television. At least with newspapers and
television, the advertising was directly in front of you, and
your interaction with it was straightforward. In the case of
newspapers and, later,  cable television , you were paying
something -- you knew the information wasn’t free.  Online, you not only are exposed to advertisements, but the
data on what you search, where you go and what you do is fed to
advertisers so they can better target their appeals. You’re
often paying nothing for the experience, at work or in a cafe.
As the information appears ever more free, the hidden costs are
growing correspondingly greater.  The point of this column is not to warn against the dangers
of advertising. It’s that our informational commons, or what we
think of as our informational commons, is, for the most part,
built atop a latticework of advertising platforms. In that way,
it’s possible that no single industry -- not newspapers or
search engines or anything else -- has done as much to advance
the storehouse of accessible human knowledge in the 20th century
as advertisers. They didn’t do it because they are
philanthropists, and they didn’t do it because they love
information. But they did it nevertheless.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 