-- Iowa Turnout Barely Tops 2008 Number as Voter Enthusiasm Muted
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-01-05T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/iowa-turnout-barely-tops-2008-number-as-voter-enthusiasm-muted.html
Hours before the  Iowa  Republican
caucuses began, Governor Terry Branstad predicted a record
turnout of as many as 140,000 voters eager to “sink”
Democratic President Barack Obama this year.  While the Republican turnout of about 122,000 was a record,
it was barely higher than in 2008, suggesting that some party
voters may be unenthused about their choices.  Mitt Romney , who
edged  Rick Santorum  by eight votes, got the lowest percentage of
any winning candidate in the history of the caucuses.  The share of registered Republicans who showed up actually
declined to 19.9 percent from 21.1 percent in 2008, according to
statistics the Iowa secretary of state’s office posted before
the Jan. 3 vote.  “Given the Republican enthusiasm for getting rid of the
Obama administration and the wind at their backs after the 2010
election, to me that was a disappointing turnout,” said Dennis Goldford, a political scientist at Drake University in  Des
Moines .  The outcome signaled that Republican voters “weren’t happy
with all the selections on the menu,” said Goldford, co-author
of a 2010 book on the caucuses. The 2008 turnout was 118,696.  Branstad, a Republican, had predicted a turnout this year
of 130,000 to 140,000, telling CNN: “Iowa launched Obama. I
think Iowans want to sink Obama.”  Pale by Comparison  Yet the increase in Republican participation paled in
comparison to the explosion in Democratic voters in the 2008
caucuses. Democratic turnout rose to about 240,000 four years
ago, aided by the political organization of the Obama campaign,
from about 125,000 in 2004. That was twice the Republican total
this year, even though there was only one contest in Iowa this
time around.  Tim Hagle , a political scientist at the University of Iowa
in Iowa City, said the Democratic surge in 2008 was mostly
because “we were coming off eight years of a Republican
presidency, it was a close contest” and Obama excited so many
voters because of his youth and race.  For Iowa Republicans this year, he said, “A larger than
usual number of people were still undecided or persuadable right
up until caucus night.” He said he isn’t sure the level of
voter participation “matters all that much to the
Republicans.”  Losing Most Counties  A review of the vote, including an  entrance poll  of 1,787
respondents conducted by Edison Research for  CNN  and other news
organizations, shows that Romney lost in most of the state’s
counties, although he captured major population centers. He did
poorly among evangelicals, Tea Party backers and young voters.  The former Massachusetts governor, waging his second
campaign for the White House, prevailed over Santorum even as he
won a smaller share of the vote than four years ago. His victory
was the narrowest in the history of the modern Iowa caucuses,
and his 24.6 percent vote was the lowest share for a winner,
just below  Bob Dole ’s 26 percent in 1996.  Romney, 64, ran behind his 2008 Iowa performance by less
than a percentage point and carried just 17 of 99 counties,
though he won all six counties that cast the most overall votes.  This group includes Polk County, home to the state capital
of Des Moines and with the most registered Republicans. Romney
beat Santorum in Polk by 28 percent to 22 percent, a near-mirror
image of his loss to  Mike Huckabee  there in 2008. About 27.5
percent of Polk Republicans participated in the caucus, the
second-highest total.  Romney Prevails  Romney also prevailed in Dallas County, a fast-growing
suburb of Des Moines that had the highest turnout rate, and in
Story County, which takes in Ames north of Des Moines and had
the third-highest turnout rate.  “Fewer counties but more-populous counties, that’s what
makes the difference.” Goldford said of Romney’s performance.  Santorum, 53, won backing from many of the 57 percent of
voters who described themselves to pollsters as born-again or
evangelical Christians. Santorum, a staunch opponent of
abortion, won about one-third of that voter bloc.  Santorum won many of the same counties as Huckabee, a
Baptist minister and former Arkansas governor who also attracted
support from evangelicals. Santorum won by 8 percentage points
in Iowa’s fifth congressional district, a swath of mostly rural
and culturally conservative voters in western Iowa.  Though Santorum won 63 of 99 counties, many of his
victories came in lightly populated areas.  Turnout also tended to be lower in pro-Santorum counties
than in Romney territory. In Lyon County, tucked in Iowa’s
northwestern corner, Santorum won a statewide high of 61 percent
and Romney got 7 percent. Yet, just 540 voters, or 10.5 percent
of registered Republicans, participated in the caucuses.  Paul Doubles Support  Third-place finisher  Ron Paul , a Texas congressman seeking
the Republican nomination for the second consecutive election,
more than doubled his support from four years ago, to 21 percent
from 10 percent.  Paul, 76, was favored by younger voters, many of them
independents and Democrats who shared his libertarian instincts
and were permitted to vote in the caucuses after re-registering
as Republicans.  Paul increased his vote share to 31 percent from 15 percent
in Johnson County, which includes the University of Iowa in Iowa
City, and to 26 percent from 12 percent in Story, which includes
 Iowa State University  in Ames. He finished second in both
counties.  Transcendental Meditation  Paul won a statewide high of 49 percent in Jefferson
County, which includes a school for transcendental meditation in
Fairfield. Paul is an opponent of most U.S. military action
abroad. Jefferson was the only county Paul won in 2008, when he
finished fifth overall. Paul won 17 counties yesterday,
including some in eastern Iowa that Romney won four years ago.  The other candidates didn’t demonstrate much appeal
anywhere in the state. Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , who
finished fourth with 13 percent, and Texas Governor  Rick Perry ,
who was fifth with 10 percent, topped 20 percent of the vote in
just four counties. Perry won two and Gingrich didn’t win any.  Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota  withdrew from
the race yesterday after winning just 5 percent of the vote and
6,073 votes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  