-- Iowa Caucuses Show Ethanol No Longer Sacred to Rural Voters
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2012-01-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/iowa-caucuses-show-ethanol-no-longer-sacred-to-rural-voters.html
Allegiance to ethanol, once required
for political success in rural states, has faded in importance
as some candidates skeptical about biofuel subsidies fared
better than supporters in the Iowa caucuses.  Staunch ethanol opponent Ron Paul took second in rural
counties.  Rick Santorum , who won the vote in farm country,
relied on support from religious conservatives -- although
support for biofuels helped.  Mitt Romney , who has criticized
long-term government subsidies for the fuel, carried the entire
state.  Newt Gingrich  consulted for an industry group and had the
highest rating on farm policy from the Iowa Corn Growers
Association. He took fourth.  Ethanol’s growth, and rising acceptance that it no longer
needs tax credits and trade protection, reduces the political
importance of a fuel that once stood as a litmus test for
candidates, a lesson that may reverberate in other states,
according to Chuck Hassebrook, the executive director of the
Center for Rural Affairs, an advocacy and development group
based in Lyons,  Nebraska . That’s a change from 2008, when
Republican nominee  John McCain  didn’t actively compete in the
state, partly because his ethanol opposition was considered a
sure-fire loser.  ‘Less Potent’  Biofuels are “a little less potent of a symbol today,”
Hassebrook said. “Ethanol is established, and corn prices are
very strong.”  With little opposition in Congress, a 45-cent-a-gallon tax
credit for ethanol blenders expired Dec. 31, as did a 54-cent-a-
gallon tariff on imports. A requirement for 15 billion gallons
of production by 2015, up from 13.2 billion this year, remains.  Ethanol-driven prosperity in the rural Midwest, combined
with tougher times elsewhere, has made biofuels a difficult
balancing act for politicians who want to win key swing states
from Minnesota and  Wisconsin  to Indiana and  Ohio  without running
into trouble with other voters, said  Shawn McCambridge , senior
grain analyst for Jefferies Bache Commodities Inc. in Chicago.  “It’s a real tightrope to walk politically,” he said.  One in six Iowa jobs is tied to agriculture, according to a
2009 study by Dan Otto, an Iowa State University economist. Corn
prices that averaged 26 percent more in 2011 than in 2008, the
previous record year, have pushed farmland values in the Hawkeye
State to more than triple what they were a decade ago.  Iowa’s unemployment rate of  5.7 percent (USUSIA)  compares with the
nationwide rate of 8.6 percent. The state’s attitude toward
biofuels also differs from parts of the country where they have
been linked to everything from higher food prices to global
warming.  Less Worry  Ethanol’s strength allows voters tied to the farm economy
to worry less about biofuels and look more at other issues, said
Becky Beach, a Republican operative in  Iowa  who helped George H.
W. Bush and  George W. Bush  win the state’s caucuses in the 1980s
and 1990s.  “The fact that we don’t have any farm crisis or dramatic,
pressing needs is a good thing for Iowa,” said Beach, who
caucused for Romney.  Santorum, who opposed biofuels incentives in Congress, won
rural areas this year because he’s socially conservative and
visited all 99 of the state’s counties in a pickup truck, she
said. The former U.S. senator from  Pennsylvania  garnered 28
percent of caucus votes in farm country, according to an
 analysis  by the Center for Rural Strategies, a research group.
Santorum, who left Congress in 2007, says he  now considers 
ethanol a viable source of energy. Statewide, he came eight
votes from topping Romney.  Turnout for Romney  Romney, who ran third in rural counties with 19.6 percent,
was able to win the overall caucus vote because of higher
turnout and support in urban areas, the Whitesburg, Kentucky-
based center said.  U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas , an ethanol opponent,
took 20.1 percent of the rural vote, beating Romney based on his
calls to significantly shrink the federal government and expand
personal liberties. In contrast, former U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich, whose consulting firm has earned $575,000 since 2009
for advising Growth Energy, an ethanol-industry lobbying group,
took a distant fourth.  Gingrich’s retail politicking was weak, and a blast of
negative ads from other candidates overwhelmed his support,
Beach said.  Potential Danger  Ethanol’s lessened political importance doesn’t make it
irrelevant, and outspoken criticism of the biofuel can still
hurt candidates among rural voters, said Dee Davis, the
president of the Center for Rural Strategies. Texas Governor
 Rick Perry , who in 2008 asked the Environmental Protection
Agency to relax federal ethanol-use requirements to keep corn
prices down, took fifth in the overall vote.  The Corn Belt has too much invested in the fuel not to
care, said Jerrod Kitt, an analyst at Linn Group in  Chicago .  “You’ve definitely seen erosion in broad-based support,
but in terms of the Midwest, you’re always going to have
support,” said Kitt, an Iowa native. “Some of these plants
cost $100 to $150 million. There’s a lot of money tied up” in
ethanol distilleries, he said.  Still, a spotty record on biofuels isn’t the deal breaker
it once was, Davis said. Social positions, fiscal conservatism
or plain, principled stances can make up for skepticism toward
subsidies. Sometimes, a candidate can attract rural support
simply by visiting a small town -- a lesson President  Barack
Obama  and his eventual opponent may want to heed in a tight
election in November, he said.  “The Farm Belt went for Santorum because he showed up,”
said Davis. “You can’t just see someone dress up in jeans and
state a policy that fits on television.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at  jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  or  