-- Iran Central Bank Moves to Avert Sliding Rial as Allies Tighten Sanctions
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-01-05T07:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/iran-central-bank-moves-to-avert-sliding-rial-as-allies-tighten-sanctions.html
Iran ’s central bank moved to avert a
slide in the value of the rial as the U.S. and allies prepared
for further sanctions that may include an oil embargo.  The rial rose to 14,000 per dollar at currency exchange
traders yesterday, from 17,800 on Jan. 2, after foreign currency
was made available to the market, the state-run  Fars News Agency 
reported, citing Mohammad Kashti-Aray, the director of the Gold
and Jewelry Union of Iran. The agency didn’t give further
details of the central bank’s action. It said the bank will host
a meeting of economists on Jan. 9 to discuss management of the
exchange rate.  The currency has plunged because “Iranians are seeking
safer havens in internationally traded currencies and gold as
the country faces the prospect of dealing with tougher
international sanctions,” said  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief economist
at National Commercial Bank in  Saudi Arabia .  The U.S. and allies are tightening restrictions on Iran,
accusing it of a covert plan to build nuclear weapons, a charge
Iran’s government denies. President  Barack Obama  on Dec. 31
signed into law measures that deny access to the U.S. financial
system to any foreign bank that conducts business with the
Central Bank of Iran. The European Union says it will decide
this month on new sanctions, possibly including an oil embargo.  Iran’s inflation rate has surged as the government removed
subsidies on staple goods. It may reach 22 percent by the end of
the current calendar year in March, Deputy Economy Minister
Mohammad-Reza Farzin said last month.  ‘Imported Inflation’  “Inflation is a big problem as it is, and a devaluation
would obviously fuel imported inflation even further,”
Kotilaine said.  Iran has blocked access to mesghal.com, a popular website
used by Iranians to track the price of gold and international
exchange rates, according to the Asriran news website.  The government is targeting growth of 6 percent for the
year ending in March, Economy and Finance Minister Shamseddin Hosseini said in an interview in June. The  International
Monetary Fund  estimated in September that Iran’s economy would
grow 2.5 percent in 2011 and 3.4 percent this year.  Iran has warned it may halt traffic through the  Strait of
Hormuz , the passageway for about a third of the world’s
seaborne-traded crude, in response to curbs on its oil sales.  That’s probably “a bluff,”  Paul Sullivan , a political
scientist specializing in Middle East security at  Georgetown
University  in Washington, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “They would strangle their economy and  Iraq ’s, their
ally. It could also be seen as an act of war.”  Aircraft Carrier  The U.K. would be willing to join a military action aimed
at keeping the strait open, Defense Secretary Philip Hammond
will say in a speech in  Washington  today, according to extracts
released by his office.  Iran’s army chief has also warned the U.S. against sending
an aircraft carrier back to the  Persian Gulf  after the John C.
Stennis, an aircraft carrier, left the area a week ago. The U.S.
rebuffed Iran’s demand, saying it will continue to protect
freedom of navigation in the region.  The dispute and the prospect of supply curbs due to
sanctions on Iran has helped push oil up more than $4 a barrel
this year. It was trading at $103.39 at 7:40 a.m. in  London 
today, close to an eight-month high. Iran, the second-largest
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
produced 3.58 million barrels a day in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Jeddah at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 