-- Lithium Technologies Raises $53.4 Million to Joust With Jive Software
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-01-05T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/lithium-technologies-raises-53-4-million-to-joust-with-jive-software.html
Lithium Technologies Inc., a maker of
social-media marketing software, raised $53.4 million in  venture
capital  to challenge  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  and Jive Software Inc.  The financing, led by  New Enterprise Associates  and  SAP
AG (SAP) ’s venture arm, will be used for investments in sales and
marketing, geographic expansion and hiring engineers,
Emeryville, California-based Lithium said today in a statement.
The company’s valuation wasn’t disclosed.  Lithium is capitalizing on the popularity of social
software for businesses after  Jive’s (JIVE)  initial public offering
last month raised $161 million. Lithium is targeting brands that
want to identify fans on social networks, communicate with them
and provide rewards. The market for social software to manage
customer relationships may jump to $1 billion this year from
$625 million in 2010, according to researcher Gartner Inc.  “It’s a much higher priority now on corporate budgets,”
Lithium Chief Executive Officer Rob Tarkoff said in an
interview. “Social is not an experiment anymore. It’s a real
system, and you have to understand what you get when you
invest.”  The company plans to double in size by the end of this year
to almost 400 employees, Tarkoff said. While Lithium doesn’t
disclose financials, revenue for 2010 may have reached as much
as $30 million, Gartner estimated.  Serving McDonald’s  Clients include  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest
restaurant chain, and Nissan Motor Co.,  Japan ’s second-biggest
carmaker. They use Lithium’s software to communicate with their
own customers and monitor conversations on social networks such
as those run by Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. The Lithium
clients pay monthly subscription fees based on needs and usage.  Benchmark Capital , DAG Ventures, Emergence Capital,
Greenspring Associates, Shasta Ventures and Tenaya Capital also
contributed to the funding round, following up on earlier
investments in Lithium.  Lithium, started in 2001, was run by co-founder Lyle Fong
until August, when Tarkoff succeeded him as CEO. Fong remains a
board member and is chief strategist. Tarkoff joined from Adobe
Systems Inc., where he was a senior vice president and ran the
digital enterprise business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net  