-- J.C. Penney Declines After Fourth-Quarter Profit Forecast Misses Estimates
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-01-05T21:07:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/j-c-penney-shares-slump-after-retailer-cuts-fourth-quarter-profit-outlook.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) , the third-largest
department-store chain, fell after cutting fourth-quarter profit
forecast, citing declining sales and deeper discounts than
anticipated during the holiday season.  The stock dropped 2.7 percent to $33.97 at the close in  New
York  after the Plano, Texas-based company provided the reduced
prediction, which  fell short (JCP)  of analysts’ estimates. The shares
rose 8.8 percent last year.  New Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson , who took over in
November after running  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s retail operations, is
reviewing products, pricing and promotional strategies to revive
sales. He’s lowering the quarterly forecast amid mixed results
by U.S. retailers for December, when some stores offered so many
markdowns to lure shoppers that they sacrificed earnings.  “The operating earnings reduction was certainly more
significant than I anticipated,” Liz Dunn, a New York-based
analyst with Macquarie Group who rates the shares “neutral,”
said in an e-mail. “The incoming management team has made it
clear that they do not expect to be able to impact the business
until” the fiscal first quarter.  Profit will  decline (JCP)  to 65 cents to 70 cents a share in the
period ending Jan. 31, excluding some items, J.C. Penney said in
a statement today, compared with a November forecast of as much
as $1.15. Analysts estimated $1.08, the average prediction
compiled by Bloomberg.  Same-store sales, which exclude new locations, will drop
“slightly” in the quarter, the company said. On Nov. 14, two
weeks after Johnson took over, the chain had forecast sales at
stores open at least a year to be unchanged or “slightly”
positive. Such sales rose 4.5 percent in the year-ago quarter.  “Sales overall in December were softer than expected,”
Angelika Torres, J.C. Penney’s investor relations director, said
on a recorded call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  