-- J&J Said to Agree to Pay $1 Billion in Risperdal Marketing Probe
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k ,   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-01-06T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/j-j-to-agree-to-1b-accord-in-risperdal-probe.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  will pay more than
$1 billion to the U.S. and most states to resolve a civil
investigation into marketing of the antipsychotic Risperdal,
according to people familiar with the matter.  J&J, the world’s largest health products company, reached
an agreement last week with the U.S. attorney in Philadelphia,
according to the people, who weren’t authorized to speak about
the matter. Negotiations over a possible criminal plea are still
under way, they said.  The U.S. government has been investigating Risperdal sales
practices since 2004, including allegations the company marketed
the drug for unapproved uses, J&J has said in Securities and
Exchange Commission  filings (JNJ) . The company said it has been in
negotiations with the U.S. to settle the investigation.  J&J, based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , disclosed in
August that it reached an agreement to settle a misdemeanor
criminal charge related to Risperdal marketing. The company is
discussing paying about $400 million more to settle that portion
of the investigation, one of the people said.  “We’re not going to comment on rumor or speculation,”
Teresa Mueller, a J&J spokeswoman, said in a phone interview.  Risperdal, once J&J’s best-selling drug, generated
worldwide sales of $24.2 billion from 2003 to 2010, reaching
$4.5 billion in 2007. After that, J&J lost patent protection and
sales declined. The settlement represents 31 percent of
Risperdal’s peak sales in 2007, before generic versions of the
medicine eroded revenue. It’s about 5.6 percent of the drug’s
cumulative sales since 2003.  Approved for Schizophrenia  The  Food and Drug Administration  approved Risperdal in 1993
for psychotic disorders including schizophrenia. That market is
limited, and J&J’s Janssen unit sought to sell Risperdal for
bipolar disorder, dementia, mood and anxiety disorders and other
unapproved uses, according to documents in a lawsuit against J&J
by the state of Louisiana. It was later approved for other uses.  Company officials said in an SEC filing in May that they
had reserved funds to resolve the government’s claims over
Risperdal marketing. The company didn’t say how much had been
set aside. The drugmaker said in an August filing it added an
unspecified amount to the reserve to cover criminal penalties.  When the final settlement will be announced isn’t clear.
The  Justice Department  typically announces civil and criminal
resolutions at the same time in corporate cases.  A majority of U.S. states will join the settlement, the
people said. Which ones will accept the final agreement hasn’t
been determined, they said. Each state can decide whether to
join the federal government’s settlement or pursue its own case.  Texas  Trial  Typically, states with cases in court continue to pursue
their own. Texas alone is asking for more than $1 billion in a
case that goes to trial in state court in Austin next week. Jury
selection begins on Jan. 9.  J&J and Janssen deny any wrongdoing in the Texas case.  “Janssen is prepared to vigorously defend itself against
these claims,” Mueller said in an e-mail. “We are committed to
ethical business practices and have policies in place to ensure
that our products are only promoted for their FDA-approved
indication.”  J&J and Janssen have been sued by 12 states, including
Texas,  South Carolina  and  Louisiana , over Risperdal marketing.
The attorneys general of the other states “have indicated a
potential interest in pursuing similar litigation against”
Janssen, J&J said in its quarterly SEC filing in November.  A jury in Louisiana, weighing claims that the company
downplayed the drug’s risks, awarded that state $257.7 million
in 2010. A South Carolina judge last year ordered J&J to pay
$327 million over Risperdal sold in the state.  Unapproved Uses  Hundreds of Janssen salespeople sold to doctors, nursing
homes, Veteran’s Administration facilities and jails, according
to documents in the Louisiana case. Marketers gave doctors
materials about studies of unapproved uses for Risperdal.
Janssen sponsored clinical trials of its effects on other
illnesses.  In 1994, 1999 and 2004, the FDA ordered Janssen to stop
making false and misleading marketing claims about Risperdal’s
superiority.  The FDA told J&J in 1999 that its marketing materials for
geriatric patients overstated Risperdal’s benefits and minimized
risks. A J&J business plan for the next year called for
increasing the drug’s market share for elderly dementia sales,
an unapproved use, according to documents in the Louisiana suit.  The FDA didn’t approve Risperdal for bipolar disorder until
2003. In 2006, the regulator approved it for symptoms related to
autism in children and teens. The FDA approved it to treat
bipolar children and teens the next year. It was never approved
for dementia.  Federal Drug Act  “Discussions have been ongoing in an effort to resolve
criminal penalties under the Food Drug and Cosmetic Act related
to the promotion of Risperdal,” J&J said in its August  SEC
filing . “Certain issues remain open before a settlement can be
finalized.”  “The ultimate resolution of the above criminal and these
civil matters is not expected to have a material adverse effect
on the company’s financial position,” J&J officials said in the
filing.  The agreement in principle on the criminal charge is
“pursuant to a single misdemeanor violation of the Food, Drug
and Cosmetic Act,” the company said.  Risperdal is a member of a class of drugs, known as
atypical antipsychotics, that includes Indianapolis-based  Eli
Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Zyprexa and London-based  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s
Seroquel.  Lilly, AstraZeneca and two other J&J competitors making
these drugs have paid $2.7 billion to resolve government
marketing claims, particularly that the companies pushed the
drugs for unapproved uses.  Lilly paid more than $1.7 billion to resolve state and
federal investigations over Zyprexa and AstraZeneca has paid
almost $590 million.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  paid $301 million for its drug
Geodon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan ,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 