-- Japan Air Share Sale May Spur Country’s Busiest Year for IPOs Since 2007
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-01-06T04:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/japan-air-may-spur-country-s-busiest-year-for-ipos-since-2007.html
Japan  may have its busiest year for
initial public offerings in five years as social network
providers and manufacturers join Japan Airlines Co. in preparing
share sales.  As many as 50 Japanese companies will offer shares to the
public for the first time in 2012, Toshio Isohashi, head of IPOs
at  Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. , said in an
interview in  Tokyo  on Jan. 4. That would be the most since 2007,
the year before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy
triggered the deepest global recession in postwar history.  Japan’s IPO market has shrunk over the past decade, with
none topping  NTT DoCoMo (9437)  Inc.’s 2.1 trillion yen ($27 billion)
offering in 1998. A share sale by Facebook Inc., the U.S. social
networking site that is considering the largest Internet IPO on
record, could provide a trigger for offerings by similar
companies in the Asian nation this year, Isohashi said.  “Japan’s IPO market is returning to normal at last,” he
said. “At least a half-dozen Japanese game application makers
and social networking companies will list on  stock exchanges ,”
the banker said, without naming any.  Initial share sales in Japan dried up over the past 10
years as the country grappled with a slumping stock market,
falling  consumer prices (JNCPIXFF) , and a political arena that saw seven
prime ministers. The number of IPOs shrank to 36 last year from
172 a decade earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
and the benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  has lost more than 20
percent. The Nikkei fell 1.4 percent as of 1:23 p.m. in Tokyo.  Return From Bankruptcy  Japan Airlines, the carrier that exited bankruptcy last
year, is preparing an IPO that may raise as much as 1 trillion
yen as early as September, two people familiar with the matter
said this week. That would match a 2010 sale by  Dai-ichi Life
Insurance Co. (8750)  as the biggest since mobile operator NTT DoCoMo’s
IPO more than 13 years ago.  Nomura Holdings Inc., the top-ranked arranger of Japanese
stock sales, and Daiwa Securities Group Inc. will lead the
offering, said Taro Namba, a spokesman for Tokyo-based JAL.  “Investors’ appetites are gradually increasing,” Isohashi,
47, said. “Some see IPO stocks as relatively cheap.”  KLab Inc. (3656) , a Tokyo-based online game maker, was the best
performer among the 36 Japanese companies that listed last year,
with its share value tripling from the IPO price, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. KLab shares rose 4.8 percent to 5,240 yen at
1:23 p.m. in Tokyo. Its IPO was priced in September at 1,700 yen.  In the U.S., Facebook and Yelp Inc. are set to lead the
biggest year for IPOs by Internet companies since 1999, testing
demand after investors lost money on Zynga Inc. and Pandora
Media Inc. The industry may raise $11 billion this year,
according to Bloomberg data. That would be the most since $18.5
billion of IPOs in 1999, just before the dot-com bubble burst.  Mitsubishi UFJ  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the venture between Japan’s
biggest banking group and New York-based Morgan Stanley, was
ranked fifth in managing share sales in the country last year,
Bloomberg data show. Nomura topped the list for the 10th
straight year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  