-- Japan Alternative Equity Markets Have Best Year for Volume Amid Volatility
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-01-06T06:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/japan-alternative-equity-markets-have-best-year-for-volume-amid-volatility.html
Japan ’s alternative equity markets
won more business than ever from the Tokyo Stock Exchange as
investment funds sought better prices and places to buy and sell
when traditional channels failed.  Markets including SBI Japannext and Chi-X Japan as well as
dark pools, or venues that don’t display prices, handled 7.8
percent of the volume in  Topix Index (TPX)  stocks last year, up from 6
percent in 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the
biggest annual increase and the most market share since such
platforms were introduced in 2007, the data show.  The venues, known as proprietary trading systems, handled
more volume in  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , Canon Inc. and Olympus
Corp. than the Tokyo Stock Exchange on some days, the first time
that’s ever happened, because of stock halts and price
differences across venues, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
Nikkei Stock Average Volatility Index posted its biggest two-day
gain in March after the nation’s largest earthquake and tsunami.  Competition between venues means “both the TSE and the
proprietary trading systems have more incentive to improve
trading systems and cut trading fees to secure customers,” said
Kenichi Kubo, a senior  fund manager  at Tokio Marine Asset
Management Co., which oversees 5.4 trillion yen ($70 billion).
“That also enhances status and reliability for the Japanese
financial market. All of them are positive for investors.”  Japan was the only country in the  Asia  Pacific region to
allow proprietary platforms to compete directly with traditional
exchanges until Chi-X  Australia  opened on Oct. 30.  Volume Triples  Volume on SBI Japannext and Chi-X Japan since the March 11
earthquake has been triple the level seen in the year leading up
to the natural disaster, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. On the Tokyo exchange, trading is about 19 percent
below the pace before the quake.  It was “our best year ever in terms of new contracts and
installs for Japanese domestic firms,” said  Lee Porter ,
managing director in Asia for Liquidnet Holdings Inc., which
operates an anonymous order matching service. “The need for
alternative trading options is increasing in Japan as the
domestic traders become more comfortable with using non-
traditional methods.”  The number of Tokyo Electric shares transacted via SBI and
Chi-X’s venues surged in March as orders were delayed on the
country’s main bourse in the days following the temblor and
nuclear crisis at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. Since then, the
two largest alternative platforms that display prices have
handled 17 times more shares of the utility than they did the
year before, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Olympus Scandal  Four times as many shares of Olympus traded on alternative
platforms on Nov. 10 after the company was put on watch for
delisting and the rush of sell orders forced the Tokyo exchange
to cancel its opening auction.  Olympus Corp. (7733) , a maker of cameras
and endoscopes, was embroiled in an accounting scandal after
firing its chief executive officer in October.  Almost 16 times as many shares of  eAccess Ltd. (9427) , a broadband
service provider, traded on off-exchange venues as on the main
bourse on Aug. 16. The final price recorded on the alternative
platforms for shares of eAccess was 7.3 percent lower than the
closing price on the Tokyo exchange that day.  More shares of Canon passed through alternative venues on
June 27, Sept. 15 and Sept. 29. Unlike the Tepco and Olympus
cases, there were no halts on the main exchange or market-moving
announcements that would have forced the flow off of the TSE.  Hiroshi Sensaki, chief operating officer of SBI Japannext,
said five new brokers are in the process of connecting to the
trading platform.  Connecting Clients  More clients have been asking to connect to Chi-X and SBI
Japannext, said Perry Pritchard, managing director and head of
electronic trading sales for Daiwa Capital Markets. He said they
were planning to connect in the first quarter of this year.  While the number of firms and investors using alternative
venues will keep increasing, it’s unlikely the number of
providers will rise, Liquidnet’s Porter said. One venue,
Kabu.com, said in September that it would close because of too
little volume.  “While the PTS’s have made some inroads into taking market
share from the TSE, it is still relatively small in the scheme
of things,” he said, referring to the so-called proprietary
trading systems. “Anyone new coming in would need to bring
something quite differentiated to make an impact. And the
closure of Kabu.com would make any potential entrants think
twice.”  Chi-X  Europe   Use of off-exchange venues is lagging behind other regions.
Chi-X Europe Ltd., the region’s largest alternative trading
system, handles more than 30 percent of the value of FTSE 100
Index stocks, according to the London-based company. Chi-X
Europe was acquired by Bats Global Markets Inc. in December from
Nomura Holdings Inc.’s Instinet unit and more than a dozen
brokers.  The popularity of the alternative venues comes as overall
trading in Japan falls, leaving more contenders looking for
slices of a smaller pie.  Trading in shares of Japan’s biggest companies  fell to the (MVOJPC1) 
lowest level since February 2004 in November, with an average of
1.05 trillion yen ($14 billion) in stock changing hands on the
TSE’s first section, whose companies have a median market value
of 31.3 billion yen, exchange data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Shares totaling 852 billion yen traded on average during
December.  TSE Upgrading  The value of Topix index-company shares changing hands on
the first three trading days of this year averaged 763 billion
yen. The gauge rose 0.1 percent for the week.  Tokyo Stock Exchange spent 2011 making its two-year-old
Arrowhead trading system faster and upgrading its information
technology infrastructure to capture more electronic and high-
speed trading. It has also offered to buy as much as 66.67
percent of Osaka Securities Exchange Co., the world’s No. 3
venue for equity-index futures by number of contracts.  “Technology investment by TSE, such as the recent overhaul
of Tostnet and further upgrades to Arrowhead, will not in itself
stem the growth of the PTS’s,” said Jessica Morrison, head of
Asia Pacific market structure at Deutsche Bank AG in  Hong Kong .
Tostnet is the bourse’s system for reporting off-exchange
trades. “PTS’s could ultimately benefit from a more competitive
playing field following the merger, if it triggers any favorable
deregulation moves,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  