-- Japan in First Trade Gap Since ‘63: JPMorgan
-- B y   E l e a n o r   W a r n o c k
-- 2012-01-05T05:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/japan-in-first-trade-gap-since-63-jpmorgan.html
Japan  probably recorded its first
 annual trade deficit (JNTBAL)  since 1963 last year, part of a shift that
may see the world’s largest net creditor come to rely on inflows
of foreign capital by 2015, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “If foreigners don’t believe Japan’s fiscal situation will
improve, Japan could become like  Greece ,” said Masaaki Kanno,
chief economist at JPMorgan in  Tokyo . “We’re getting poorer as
the trade deficit increases.”  Japan’s ability to keep borrowing costs the second lowest
in the world depends on its position as a net holder of external
assets. A drop in savings as babyboomers dip into retirement
funds and as a strong yen erodes company profits could push the
nation’s  current-account surplus (JNBPAB)  into a deficit, making it more
expensive for the country to borrow.  If Japan has a shortfall, the government must reassure
investors of Japan’s creditworthiness or risk seeing an increase
in bond yields, said Kanno, a former chief foreign-exchange
dealer at the  Bank of Japan . A failure by Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  to bolster the nation’s 5 percent  sales tax  could
shake investor confidence, he said.  Japan retained its rank as largest net holder of external
assets for a 20th straight year in 2010, with a position of
251.5 trillion yen ($3.3 trillion), according to the finance
ministry. Figures for 2011 are due in May. Japan’s 10-year
government bond yield, at 0.985 percent today, is the
second lowest in the world after  Switzerland .  Current Account  The world’s third-largest economy had a current-account
surplus of 562.4 billion yen in October, the latest data
available, while posting a trade deficit of 273.8 billion yen in
the same period. The current account tracks the flow of goods,
services and investment income between Japan and its trading
partners.  The appreciation of the yen against the dollar also erodes
Japan’s current-account surplus by making the country’s goods
more expensive abroad. The yen has gained 8.5 percent against
the dollar in the past year and reached a postwar high of 75.35
on Oct. 31. It traded at 76.73 per dollar as of 2 p.m.  JPMorgan estimates a 1 percent gain in the yen could reduce
the export volumes by 0.34 percent, damping growth for a country
that has relied on overseas demand to sustain its recovery from
last March’s earthquake. According to JPMorgan calculations, a
global expansion at 4 percent and a 5 percent drop in the yen
would be necessary to stop a future expansion of the trade
deficit, a situation that Kanno says is “unlikely.”  Japan’s current-account surplus could move into a deficit
sooner than 2015 if more companies shift production abroad,
Kanno said. Over 75 percent of Japanese cars will be produced
abroad by 2014, up from 67 percent in 2011, JPMorgan estimates.
Nissan Motor Corp. and Elpida Memory Inc. indicated last year
they will increase production abroad to combat losses from a
strong yen.  Japanese authorities have signaled they are concerned about
a further appreciation of the yen. The  Finance Ministry  said
last month it plans to increase the funds available for currency
intervention to 195 trillion yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleanor Warnock in Tokyo at 
 ewarnock@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  