-- Japan Motorcycle Makers Add Capacity in India
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2012-01-05T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/japan-motorcycle-makers-add-capacity-in-india.html
Yamaha Motor Co. (7272)  is joining other
Japanese competitors to add motorcycle capacity in  Asia ’s
second-fastest growing major economy betting demand from Indians
seeking personal transportation will sustain.  Yamaha’s local unit will invest 8 billion rupees ($151
million) to triple capacity by March 2013, it said in a
statement yesterday.  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  will spend 1 billion
rupees to produce more two-wheelers, Atul Gupta, vice president
for sales and marketing at the local unit, said in New Delhi.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , which reiterated a plan to almost double
two-wheeler capacity in  India  by 2013, and other Japanese
motorcycle makers have unveiled new models at the  New Delhi auto
show , counting on economic growth to generate demand in the
South Asian nation. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said last
month India will return to 8.5 percent to 9 percent trend growth
after the global economy stabilizes.  “The last two years were exceptional and we have seen a
normalizing in the market,” said Roy Kurian, national business
head of India Yamaha Motor Pvt. “We have no reason to believe
that our sales will tumble.”  The pace of expansion in Asia’s third-biggest  economy (INGDPY)  may
slow to 7.5 percent in the fiscal year ending March 31, Singh
said, compared with 8.5 percent in the previous 12-month period.  “Our two-wheeler segment is in sync with the Indian
economy,” said Naresh Kumar Rattan, vice president sales at
Honda’s motorcycle unit. “So long as it continues to expand at
its current pace, we don’t foresee any reduction in demand.”  Capacity Additions  Yamaha will raise motorcycle and scooter capacity to 1
million units from 330,000, Kurian said. The Iwata City, Japan-
based company introduced its first scooter in India yesterday.  Suzuki Motorcycle India Ltd., the wholly-owned subsidiary
of the Hamamatsu, Japan-based company, will increase capacity to
540,000 units by 2013 from 360,000 now, Gupta said.  Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India Pvt. , the local unit of
the world’s biggest motorcycle maker, introduced six new models
and a scooter yesterday, including the 110 cc Dream Yuga. The
unit of the Tokyo-based automaker is targeting 30 percent market
share by 2020 from 14 percent now, Rattan said.  The Japanese motorcycle makers will compete with  Hero
MotoCorp Ltd. (HMCL) , India’s biggest, and  Bajaj Auto Ltd. (BJAUT) , the second-
largest. Hero, based in New Delhi, will boost capacity at its
existing factories to 7 million units by March from 5.4 million
in the last fiscal year, and build a fourth factory by 2013,
Ravi Sud, chief financial officer, said in November.  Hero, formerly known as Hero Honda Motors Ltd., developed a
new name after Honda exited the venture to expand its unit. Hero
Group, the New Delhi-based founders of Hero,  acquired (HMCL)  Honda’s 26
percent stake in the venture in March.  Slower Growth  Sales of motorcycles and scooters  in India rose at a slower
16 percent pace in the eight months ended November, compared
with 28 percent growth in the year-earlier period, according to
the  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers .  The group may cut its annual domestic passenger-car sales
target as higher borrowing costs and fuel prices sap demand,
Sugato Sen, a senior director for the group, said on Dec. 8. It
had earlier forecast sales growth of 2 percent to 4 percent,
compared with 30 percent expansion in the year ended March 31.  The motorcycle makers don’t expect an increase in the price
of fuel to slow sales. Prices of gasoline in New Delhi are 17
percent higher than a year ago, after being cut twice in the
past two months, according to figures from  Indian Oil Corp.’s
website .  “Rising fuel prices will take their toll on four-wheelers,
which are luxury items,” said Yamaha’s Kurian. “Not two-
wheelers, which are necessities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  