-- JAL Said to Plan Up to $13 Billion IPO as Profit Rebounds
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-01-05T07:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/japan-air-said-to-plan-up-to-13b-ipo.html
Japan Airlines Co. (9205) , the carrier that
exited bankruptcy last year, is planning an initial public
offering that may raise as much as 1 trillion yen ($13 billion)
as early as September, two people familiar with the matter said.  The government-backed fund that holds about 97 percent of
JAL’s voting rights and other investors are considering selling
500 billion yen to 1 trillion yen of shares, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the process is private.
Taro Namba, a spokesman for Tokyo-based JAL, declined to comment
on the size of the planned sale.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  and  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)  will
lead the offering, Namba said, as JAL prepares for what could be
among the two biggest Japanese IPOs since 1998. The airline,
which delisted in February 2010, expects to make a profit this
fiscal year after cutting a third of its staff, shedding planes
and axing loss-making routes.  “JAL should be able to raise the money,” said  Mitsushige
Akino , who oversees about $600 million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co. “Still, if the European debt crisis
becomes a threat to the  U.S. economy , there may be a negative
impact on  cash flow , which could force them to pare it back.”  At 1 trillion yen, the IPO would match that of Dai-ichi
Life Insurance Co. in 2010. NTT DoCoMo Inc. raised 2.1 trillion
yen in a sale in 1998, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Nexon Co. held  Japan ’s largest IPO last year, raising 91 billion
yen. The online-game developer has since fallen 11 percent from
the 1,300 yen price in its December sale.  GM IPO  The JAL sale could also be the biggest worldwide since
General Motors Co. raised $18 billion in 2010. The carmaker went
through a similar process to JAL, filing for bankruptcy and then
shedding workers and paring operations in a government-backed
restructuring.  “This has been a very quick turnaround” for JAL, said Neil Hansford, chairman of Strategic Aviation Solutions, who has
advised airlines across the Asia-Pacific region. “It’s also a
very optimistic valuation with low-cost rivals coming in.”  If JAL’s shareholders sell their entire stake, the IPO
would value the carrier at as much as 8.3 times its 120 billion
yen forecast for net income in the year ending March 31.  All
Nippon Airways Co. (9202) , Japan’s largest listed carrier, is valued at
27 times its 20 billion yen forecast for the same period, based
on data compiled by Bloomberg.  ANA has a market value of $7.1 billion, the fourth highest
worldwide behind Air China Ltd., Singapore Airlines Ltd. and LAN
Airlines SA. The Tokyo-based  carrier (9202)  fell 1.8 percent today to
216 yen. It’s dropped 29 percent in Tokyo trading in the past
year, compared with a 19 percent decline for the Topix Index.  Nomura, Daiwa  JAL plans to submit its IPO filing to the Tokyo Stock
Exchange in July, the people said. Nomura, Daiwa, Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Mizuho Securities Co. and SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc. have been hired as underwriters for the
domestic share sale, Enterprise Turnaround Initiative Corp. of
Japan, JAL’s biggest shareholder, said in a statement on July 15.  ETIC, which injected 350 billion yen of capital into JAL as
part of the turnaround, must sell its stake by January 2013,
three years after taking over the carrier. The restructuring has
been led by JAL Chairman Kazuo Inamori, the founder of
electronics company Kyocera Corp., and Japan’s 28th richest man
with a $920 million fortune, according to  Forbes .  Profit Forecast  JAL (9205)  raised its forecast for annual operating profit by 85
percent to 140 billion yen in November, as it restructured
services and boosted cooperation with partners including Cathay
Pacific Airways Ltd. and  American Airlines . AMR Corp.,
American’s parent, is now going through its own restructuring in
 bankruptcy protection .  British Airways parent International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA may be interested in buying a stake in JAL, Chief
Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  said last year. JAL, British
Airways, Cathay and American are all members of the Oneworld
alliance.  JAL, once the world’s largest international carrier, exited
bankruptcy protection in March after grounding 103 planes and
discontinuing 49 routes, such as flights to  Sao Paulo , Amsterdam
and Milan. The cuts included retiring the last of what was once
the world’s biggest fleet of  Boeing Co. (BA)  747s and shedding more
than 14,000 jobs.  787s, Jetstar  The airline is this year set to begin receiving 35 on-order
Boeing 787s, as it introduces more fuel-efficient planes to help
pare costs and begin new routes. The carrier is also forming a
low-cost venture with  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  to fend off
competition from budget carriers.  Jetstar Japan, also part-owned by Mitsubishi Corp., is due
to begin domestic flights this year. ANA is similarly setting up
two low-cost carriers, including one with  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)   JAL, founded in 1951, and two units sought protection from
creditors in January 2010, listing 2.32 trillion yen in
liabilities. The airline delisted the following month, wiping
out shareholders in a company that was worth more than $6
billion less than a year earlier.  The bankruptcy filing followed three losses in four years
that were caused by competition from ANA and a slowdown in
global  air travel . The carrier had also received four state
bailouts in nine years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  