-- Japan Airlines Plans IPO as Entry of Budget Carriers Threaten Resurgence
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2012-01-06T10:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/japan-air-said-to-plan-ipo-to-raise-up-to-13-billion-as-profit-rebounds.html
Japan Airlines Co. (9205)  is preparing for
an initial public offering that may make it the world’s most
valuable carrier even as new low-fare airlines threaten to lure
travelers in its home market.  Shareholders of JAL, which exited  bankruptcy protection  in
March, are considering selling as much as 1 trillion yen ($13
billion) of stock as early as September, according to two people
familiar with the matter. That would be enough for the Tokyo-
based airline to surpass Air China Ltd. as the world’s biggest
by market value.  The sale may struggle to reach the possible highest amount
because concerns about competition may outweigh the benefits of
a turnaround that has enabled JAL to return to profit, said
Senri Sasahara, chief executive officer of Innovative Advisor
Corp. The airline faces new challenges this year from two budget
ventures backed by  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  and JAL itself is also
forming a low-cost carrier with Qantas Airways Ltd.  “The new budget carriers could be a threat to the IPO,”
said Sasahara, who advises companies on strategic investments.
“The amount sought may be a bit too ambitious.”  JAL’s shareholders may seek as little as 500 billion yen in
the sale, said the two people, who declined to be identified as
the matter is private. The carrier plans to submit its IPO
filing to the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange in July, they said.  ETIC Stake  State-backed  Enterprise Turnaround Initiative Corp. of
Japan  owns 97 percent of JAL after injecting cash to support the
restructuring. The fund must sell its stake by January 2013,
which will be three years after its takeover.  Taro Namba, a spokesman for JAL, declined to comment on the
size of the planned IPO yesterday. He did say that Nomura
Holdings Inc. and Daiwa Securities Group Inc. will lead the sale.  At 1 trillion yen, the IPO would match the size of Dai-ichi
Life Insurance Co.’s in 2010. That was Japan’s biggest since
1998 when NTT DoCoMo Inc. raised 2.1 trillion yen, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Nexon Co. held  Japan ’s largest IPO
last year, raising 91 billion yen. The online-game developer has
fallen 13 percent from its December sale price.  If JAL’s shareholders sell their entire stake, the IPO
would value the carrier at as much as 8.3 times its 120 billion
yen forecast for net income in the year ending March 31. All
Nippon, Japan’s largest listed carrier, is valued at about 27
times its 20 billion yen  forecast (9205)  for the same period, based on
data compiled by Bloomberg.  JAL Liabilities  JAL and two units sought protection from creditors in
January 2010, listing 2.32 trillion yen of liabilities. The
airline pulled its stock from the Tokyo bourse the following
month, wiping out shareholders in a company that was worth more
than $6 billion less than a year earlier.  JAL had 600 billion yen of sales in the six months to Sept.
30, compared with  705 billion yen (9202)  at Tokyo-based All Nippon. It
expects to make an  operating profit (9205)  of 140 billion yen this
fiscal year after cutting a third of its staff, shedding planes
and axing loss-making routes.  “I want to see their new cost structure before making any
judgment” on valuations, said  Masayuki Kubota , who oversees the
equivalent of $2.1 billion in assets at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd.
in Tokyo. That’s “the most important thing.”  The new challengers to JAL will include AirAsia Japan, a
venture between All Nippon and Malaysia-based AirAsia Bhd., the
region’s largest budget carrier. The startup intends to begin
short-haul flights from Tokyo’s Narita Airport in August and
then add long-haul services next year. The new airline has said
it will offer fares as much as two-thirds cheaper than
traditional carriers.  All Nippon is separately backing  Peach Aviation Ltd. , which
intends to begin flights by March from  Osaka ’s Kansai Airport.
The carrier will begin international routes in May.  ANA Competition  All Nippon is worth $7.1 billion, making it the world’s
fourth biggest carrier by market value, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It trails  Air China (753) , which is worth $11.7
billion, Singapore Airlines Ltd. and LAN Airlines SA.  “We will focus on cutting costs and boosting profit to
increase our competitiveness,” said Ryosei Nomura, an All
Nippon spokesman. “Our rival is not just JAL, but all airlines
flying in Japan.”  All Nippon rose 0.5 percent to 217 yen at the close of
trading in Tokyo. It’s dropped 29 percent in the past year,
compared with a 21 percent decline for the Topix Index.  Jetstar Japan  JAL is entering the low-cost market by setting up Jetstar
Japan with Qantas and Mitsubishi Corp. The new airline will
begin domestic services by year-end and it expects 100 billion
yen in annual sales within a few years,  Bruce Buchanan , chief
executive officer of Qantas’s Jetstar unit, said in August.  Skymark Airlines Inc. (9204) , Japan’s biggest low-cost carrier,
has also ordered six double-decker Airbus SAS A380 planes in a
bid to challenge JAL and All Nippon on long-haul international
routes.  JAL is “going to go through a lot domestic pressure,”
said Neil Hansford, chairman of Strategic Aviation Solutions, an
industry adviser. “I am not sure why anyone would be signing
up” for a share sale at the highest price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  