-- Jets Suffered Because of Selfish Players, Rookie Quarterback McElroy Says
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-01-05T05:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/jets-suffered-because-of-selfish-players-rookie-quarterback-mcelroy-says.html
The  New York Jets  had their worst
season since 2007 because players cared more about their own
performances than winning, backup quarterback Greg McElroy said.  “It’s the first time I’ve ever been around extremely
selfish individuals,” McElroy told the Eli Gold and Stan White
show on radio station 97.3 The Zone in Birmingham,  Alabama .
“There were people within our locker room that didn’t care
whether we won or lost as long as they had good games
individually. And that’s the disappointing thing.”  The Jets lost their final three games to finish the
National Football League season with an 8-8 record. The team
missed the playoffs after reaching the American Football
Conference championship game in coach  Rex Ryan ’s first two
seasons in charge.  “I don’t think we were as close as a football team as we
were the first two years and now we’re sitting on the outside
looking in,” Ryan said Jan. 2.  The slump was capped by the benching of captain  Santonio Holmes  following a verbal altercation with teammates during the
fourth quarter of a season-ending loss in Miami.  McElroy, without naming individual players, said the team
may have difficulty uniting next year.  “The fact that we struggled at times this year really led
to a really just corrupt mindset within the locker room,” said
McElroy, who spent the season on injured reserve after hurting
his thumb in training camp. “We had people that refused to buy
in and I don’t know if those people are going to be here next
year.”  The rookie, who was drafted in 2011 from the  University
of Alabama , said the Jets have the talent to make a run for the
 Super Bowl . Ryan said three days ago he doesn’t expect drastic
changes during the offseason and that Holmes will be back.  “We’re going to regroup,” McElroy told the radio station.
“I know we’ll be a better team because of the trials and
tribulations this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  