-- Kenya’s Shilling Reverses Slide as Central Bank Sells Repos to Curb Supply
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2012-01-05T13:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/kenyan-shilling-world-s-worst-performing-currency-declines-for-third-day.html
Kenya ’s shilling snapped two days of
losses against the dollar after the country’s central bank sold
 repurchase agreements  to curb shilling supply.  The currency of  East Africa ’s largest economy strengthened
0.9 percent to 86.90 per dollar 4:23 p.m. in Nairobi, the
capital, after earlier retreating 1.7 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The strengthening is because of the repurchase agreements
and because the Central Bank of Kenya sold dollars in the market
for at least the last two days,” John Muli, a dealer at African
Banking Corp., said by phone from Nairobi.  The central bank accepted all of the 3.5 billion shillings
($40.2 million) of bids it received for so-called repos, after
offering 3 billion shillings of the securities, said Donald
Murgor, a dealer at the Nairobi-based bank today.  Uganda ’s shilling, which was up 1.3 percent yesterday,
retreated 0.1 percent to 2,455.55 per dollar.  “The market is flat as the demand in the market is being
offset by inflows resulting from yesterday’s bond auction,”
Ahmed Kalule, the head of  currency trading  at Bank of Africa
Uganda Ltd., said by phone from the capital Kampala. Uganda’s
central bank sold 95 billion shillings ($38.7 million) of three-
year bonds at a yield of 21.09 percent yesterday.  Tanzania’s currency weakened for the fourth time in five
days, after closing unchanged yesterday, slipping 0.7 percent to
1,595.20. A close at this level would the lowest since Dec. 16.  “There are very little dollar inflows into the market
today,” Hamis Mwakibete, head of trading at Commercial Bank of
Africa Tanzania Ltd., said by phone from the commercial hub of
 Dar es Salaam .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ; Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
   fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  