-- Kraft Flavor Deal With SodaStream Sparks Rise: Israel Overnight
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2012-01-05T22:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/kraft-flavor-deal-with-sodastream-sparks-rise.html
Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  triggered the
biggest rally since October in  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA)  by
announcing a partnership with the Israeli maker of homemade soda
machines.  “The partnership lends credence to the emerging at-home
soda-making category and, as a result, could help drive further
adoption of SodaStream’s system,” said Jon Andersen, a Chicago-
based analyst at William Blair & Co., who has an outperform
rating on the stock.  Shares of the Airport City, Israel-based company  climbed (SODA)  21
percent this week, the biggest three-day rise since Oct. 6,
after Kraft, the world’s second-largest food company, said
Crystal Light drink mixes and Country Time lemonade would be
used as carbonated flavors with SodaStream machines. The
 Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest Israeli companies
traded in New York rose 0.9 percent, led by  Prolor Biotech Inc. (PBTH)   Analysts are  betting (SODA)  that SodaStream’s fourth-quarter sales
will outperform the company’s guidance of $62 million following
better-than expected holiday sales. The Israeli producer will
probably report a 30 percent rise in revenue during the last
three months of 2011 to $64.60, according to the mean estimate
of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  gained for a third day and
the  Nasdaq Composite Index (CCMP)  increased 0.8 percent after ADP
Employer Services said payrolls increased by 325,000 last month,
topping the median economist forecast for growth of 178,000
jobs. Applications for jobless benefits decreased 15,000 in the
week ended Dec. 31 to 372,000, Labor Department figures showed.  New CEO  The  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  climbed 2.5 percent this week, the most
since the five days ending Dec. 1, led by  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA)   The world’s largest maker of generic drugs surged 9.2
percent this week in  Tel Aviv , the biggest rise since July 2008,
after announcing that Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.’s Jeremy Levin
will replace Shlomo Yanai as chief executive officer.  The shekel rose 0.1 percent to 3.8463 versus the dollar
yesterday after dropping for the four previous days. The
currency weakened 7.5 percent last year, the worst performance
since 2001.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the  Nasdaq ,
the most of any country outside the U.S. after  China . It is also
home to the largest number of startup companies per capita in
the world.  Prolor jumped to a five-month high in  New York , advancing
12 percent to $5.11 after the Tel Aviv shares gained 10 percent
to 19 shekels, or the equivalent of $4.94.  ‘Great Fit’  The company that uses proteins to improve existing
treatments, such as in growth hormone therapy, is rising on the
back of “greater confidence in multiple clinical catalysts,”
said Raghuram Selvaraju, an equity analyst at Morgan Joseph
TriArtisan Group in New York.  Prolor, which shares Chairman Philip Frost with Teva, may
be “a great fit” as an acquisition target after Levin assumes
his new position as chief executive officer, Selvaraju said.  Kraft said the agreement, covering the production,
marketing, distribution and sale of its flavors, is the first
time the Northfield, Illinois-based company has used its brands
in carbonated drinks. Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  “The Kraft strategic partnership provides an element of
credibility to this relatively nascent stage, at-home soda-
making trend in the U.S.,” said  Mitchell Pinheiro , an analyst
at Janney Capital Markets in Philadelphia.  The Kraft flavors will be sold in stores starting in the
second quarter, the companies said. Consumers add flavors, such
as diet cola and cream soda, to water they’ve carbonated with
SodaStream’s machines.  Holiday Season  SodaStream sold more of its soda-making machines than
anticipated during the holiday season, according to a Jan. 3
report from Monness, Crespi, Hardt & Co. based on a survey of
retailers. The devices were out of stock at more than half of
Best Buy Co. and J.C. Penney Co. stores, the report said.  “We believe SodaStream was one of the top gifts this
holiday at numerous national retailers and believe management’s
fourth quarter 2011 guidance will prove conservative,” Jim Chartier, an analyst at the firm, wrote in the note.  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL) , the country’s largest mobile phone
provider, dropped to the lowest level since the company first
sold shares on the New York Stock Exchange, dropping 1.7 percent
to $15.65. The shares in Israel dropped 0.8 percent to 63.60
shekels, or the equivalent of $16.54.  Rami Levi Chain Stores Hashikma Marketing 2006 Ltd. (RMLI) , an
Israeli supermarket operator, said yesterday that it signed
10,000 customers since starting its cellular service last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  