-- Kraft Sells $800 Million of Bonds for Refinancing Before Spinoff
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-01-05T20:59:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/kraft-plans-bond-sale-to-refinance-debt-for-grocery-spinoff.html
Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  sold $800 million of
floating-rate notes that must be redeemed before the world’s
second-biggest food company spins off its North American grocery
business.  The 18-month notes pay 87.5 basis points, or 0.875
percentage point more than the three-month London interbank
offered rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Northfield, Illinois-based company must redeem the notes at par
five days before the date the spinoff becomes effective, it said
today in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Kraft, which has about $3.56 billion of bonds coming due
this year, needs to cut debt to achieve its goal of maintaining
investment-grade ratings as it separates units focused on U.S.
consumers from businesses selling to the rest of the world.
Refinancing the maturities will help “get debt on the right
side,” Chief Financial Officer David Brearton said in a Nov. 2
conference call with analysts.  “We’re preparing for the spinoff and getting both
companies in a position to be investment-grade going forward,”
 Michael Mitchell , a Kraft spokesman, said in a telephone
interview.  Proceeds from the transaction may be used to repay debt and
for general corporate purposes, according to the  SEC filing . The
company said it plans to complete the spinoff before the end of
this year. Citigroup Inc. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
are managing the transaction.  Kraft has 2 billion euros ($2.56 billion) of 5.75 percent
notes coming due on March 20 and $900 million of 6.25 percent
bonds maturing on June 1, Bloomberg data show.  Moody’s Investors Service  ranks (KFT)  Kraft Baa2, two steps above
junk, with a “developing” outlook.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the
company an equivalent BBB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  