-- MTN Posts Biggest Two-Day Decline Since January 2009 on Nigeria, Iran
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-01-05T15:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/mtn-heading-for-biggest-two-day-decline-since-september-on-iran-nigeria.html
MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) ,  Africa ’s biggest
mobile-phone operator, posted its biggest two-day decline since
January 2009 after  Nigeria ’s government removed fuel subsidies,
cutting consumer spending power in the company’s largest market.  MTN  fell (MTN)  7.55 rand, or 5.4 percent, to 132.06 rand by the
close of trade in Johannesburg, taking its two-day decline to
8.3 percent. The company has a market value of 248.9 billion
rand ($30.4 billion), making it the second-biggest South African
company after Sasol Ltd.  “People will have to choose between buying phone airtime
and paying for transportation” as fuel prices climb, said
Khulekani Dlamini, head of research at Cape Town-based Afena
Capital. The end of the subsidy “is the major issue” for the
stock price, which is also being hurt by proposed sanctions
against  Iran’s nuclear program , he said.  Nigeria will proceed with ending fuel subsidies,
Information Minister Labaran Maku told reporters in Abuja, the
capital, yesterday. The nation’s president,  Goodluck Jonathan ,
abolished 1.2 trillion naira ($7.5 billion) of subsidies on Jan.
1, promising to use savings to boost investment in  power plants 
and roads in Africa’s most populous nation.  Ending the subsidy will double gasoline prices on the
official market, and prices of other goods will climb because of
the higher transportation costs, Dlamini said. “Transportation
affects everything,” he said.  MTN shares were the most traded by value today in
Johannesburg with 2.4 billion rand of stock changing hands,
almost five times the volume of trade in  BHP Billiton , the
second-most traded stock.  Indefinite Strike  Oil traded near the highest in eight weeks in  London  today
on speculation that sanctions against  Iran ’s nuclear program
will curb crude supplies.  Nigeria contributed 16.5 billion rand ($2 billion) to MTN’s
total revenue of 56.5 billion rand in the first half through
June, when the nation generated earnings before tax, interest,
depreciation and amortization of 10.48 billion rand, 42 percent
of MTN’s total Ebitda.  MTN Irancell, the company’s Iranian unit, contributed 5
billion rand in revenue and 2.1 billion rand in Ebitda.  Nigerian workers will begin an indefinite strike from Jan.
9 against the scrapping of fuel subsidies in Africa’s largest
oil producer, labor unions said.  The Nigerian Labor Congress and Trade Union Congress are
willing to hold talks only after the government reverses its
action, Peter Esele, president of the TUC, told reporters in
Lagos yesterday. The strike will shut ports, fuel stations,
banks and oil operations, NLC President Abdulwahed Omar said at
a press conference in Abuja.  Protesters marched in the market district of Yaba in Lagos
on Jan. 3 as long lines of cars formed at gas stations. Hundreds
of students and activists in the northern city of Kano protested
for a third day yesterday, barricading roads.  MTN on Jan. 4 announced plans to invest $1 billion in its
Nigerian network this year, after spending the same amount in
2011.  The company is the largest mobile operator in Nigeria,
where it had more than 40 million subscribers in June 2011,
according to the National Communications Commission, the
country’s regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong 
at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  