-- Nestle Gains With Heinz as China Fears Local Food Safety: Retail
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-05T23:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/nestle-gains-with-heinz-as-chinese-turn-away-from-toxic-local-food-retail.html
Tainted milk from  China ’s largest
dairy company, discovered amid a state crackdown on  food safety ,
is set to be a windfall for foreign companies such as  Nestle SA. (NESN)   China Mengniu Dairy Co. (2319) , which supplies China’s astronauts
and athletes and is part-owned by the government, faces protests
after regulators found toxins in its milk last month. The dairy
company’s  shares (2319)  have dropped 25 percent in two weeks and its
website has been vandalized by hackers.  The backlash may hurt Mengniu’s  earnings (2319) , lure consumers
away from local dairy brands and drive the government to clamp
down further on foodmakers. Foreign companies, from
 Switzerland ’s Nestle to  France ’s Danone, may profit from renewed
food-safety fears, three years after contaminated local formula
killed six babies.  “This scandal is another black mark on Chinese firms’
reputation,” said Jessica Lo, managing director at China Market
Research Group, based in  Shanghai . “Foreign food brands will
benefit. Companies like Danone and Nestle should see a bump in
sales.”  Nestle is accelerating investment in its dairy business in
Shuangcheng, China, and investing in a new dairy training
institute, Jonathan Dong, a spokesman, said by e-mail. Nestle’s
Shuangcheng factory has close to 100 people in testing and
monitoring and has a “very sophisticated” test capability in
its factories, he said.  Baby Food Pouches  H.J. Heinz Co. (HNZ) , the Pittsburgh-based food maker, started
selling baby food packed in pouches in China last year, which
costs less than food in jars. Business in China will double
during the next three years, Chief Executive Officer William
Johnson said in November.  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co., the baby-food maker based in
Glenview,  Illinois , in November opened a 53,000 square-foot
pediatric nutrition research institute in  Guangzhou , southern
China. The company made $745 million of  sales (MJN)  in China in 2010,
more than doubling in two years and accounting for 24 percent of
its total, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mead Johnson
had a 12 percent share of China’s milk formula market in 2010,
 Danone (BN)  had 10 percent, and Nestle 2.3 percent, according to
London-based researcher Euromonitor International.  China’s government has tried rebuilding confidence in its
 food industry  through factory inspections and regulation.
Mengniu was taken over partially by a unit of state-backed food
company Cofco Corp. after being identified among 22 Chinese
companies that sold baby formula containing melamine in 2008.
Cofco’s Chairman Ning Gaoning replaced founder Niu Gensheng as
chairman in 2011.  Lower Estimates  Safety infractions have surfaced in the industry even as
the government seeks to improve standards. Toxins above normal
levels were found in one batch of milk from closely held Fujian
Changfu Dairy Industry Group Co. and in another from Mengniu,
regulators said on Dec. 24.  Deutsche Bank on Dec. 27 lowered its  estimates (2319)  for
Mengniu’s 2012 and 2013 per-share earnings by about 9 percent on
concern consumers’ confidence in its brands will be hurt. The
milk producer’s stock-price forecast was cut at Deutsche Bank to
HK$22.60 from HK$31.50. Mengniu has dropped HK$6.60 to HK$19.70
since Dec. 23.  Consumers “will immediately shift to foreign brands when
they learn about the Mengniu incident because they have stronger
trust in overseas companies,” said Tracy Sun, an analyst at CSC
Securities HK Ltd., based in  Hong Kong .  Lu Jianjun, a Hohhot-based Mengniu spokesman declined to
comment when reached by phone.  Market Share  Mengniu has the biggest share of China’s milk market, with
24 percent, followed by  Inner Mongolia Yili Industrial Group Co. (600887) 
at 20 percent, according to Euromonitor. Vevey, Switzerland-
based Nestle has 1.5 percent. France’s Danone has a 1.5 percent
share in a separate yogurt and sour-milk drinks category.  China’s market for milk products is expected to surge 66
percent to 232 billion yuan in 2015 from 2010, Euromonitor data
show.  Sales of foreign food brands grew in China during the 2008
scandal involving melamine-tainted milk, which killed at least
six infants and sickened 300,000 people. Mengniu reported a 2008
loss of 949 million yuan ($151 million) and Yili lost 1.7
billion yuan.  Nestle’s sales in China, Hong Kong and  Taiwan  rose 10
percent to 2.23 billion Swiss francs that year, or $2.1 billion
using exchange rates at the time.  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN)  had
a “temporary increase in demand” as competing products were
pulled off shelves, the company said in its 2008 annual report.  ‘Wealth’s Curse’  Multinationals in China have been better at maintaining
product safety, said Jason Ding, vice president at management
consultancy Roland Berger AG in Beijing. Quality has become a
“secondary” concern for Chinese companies pushing to increase
sales in the world’s fastest-growing major economy, he said.
“It’s like wealth’s curse.”  Niu founded Mengniu, which means “Mongolian Cow” in
Chinese, in a six-floor building in Hohhot, capital of the Inner
Mongolia autonomous region, in 1999. It now employs about 25,000
people and has annual production capacity of 6 million tons.
Last year’s sales of 30.3 billion yuan ($4.8 billion) are almost
triple the level five years ago.  Mengniu supplied China’s first astronaut, Yang Liwei, with
milk for outer space, according to its site, which shows top
state leaders, including President  Hu Jintao , inspecting the
company’s facilities.  Biggest Concern  China’s government has shut 5,000 companies, arrested 2,000
people, and given at least one death sentence in a crackdown on
food safety in 2011. State and local governments hold stakes in
the country’s largest food makers including  Bright Dairy & Food
Co. Ltd. (600597)  and Yili.  Cofco Dairy Investment Ltd., a company affiliated with
Cofco Corp., China’s largest food maker, is Mengniu’s biggest
shareholder with a 19.7 percent stake, according to  data (2319) 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Food and product safety is the biggest concern for
consumers, China Market Research found in interviews with 5,000
people in 15 cities last year. “They were more worried about
that than paying for medical care or education costs,” said Lo.
“The food supply chain in China is a mess and smart companies
will benefit by ensuring the best quality.”  “Hacked By:Drift”  Mengniu said moldy feed given to cows caused December’s
tainted milk, which was destroyed. It promised to “reinforce
quality control” by monitoring each production step.  That hasn’t appeased some consumers. On Dec. 28, hackers
changed the title of the milk producer’s website to “Hacked
By:Drift” and posted a message that said: “Mengniu once made
the Chinese people strong and proud, but now it’s doing harm to
its own people.”  Mengniu’s troubles come after regulators last year found an
additive meant to induce lean meat in products made by China’s
top pork producer,  Henan Shuanghui Investment & Development Co. (000895) 
“Local companies, even industry leaders, can’t be protected,”
said Ding.  Chinese brands will dominate the liquid milk market despite
safety concerns because it’s costly for foreign brands to import
milk, said Sun at CSC Securities. Mengniu’s stock recovered some
of their losses, climbing 8.5 percent this week on speculation
it slid too much. The share price remains 31 percent below the
2011 high of HK$28.55 hit on July 22. The benchmark  Hang Seng
Index  has fallen 16 percent during that time.  “Long-term, Mengniu’s sales and market share will be
affected by the frequent quality scandals,” said Jason Yuan, an
analyst at UOB Kayhian Holdings Ltd in Shanghai.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  