-- Nokia Said to Favor Siilasmaa as Chairman to Replace Ollila
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-01-05T15:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/nokia-may-name-risto-siilasmaa-to-follow-jorma-ollila-as-chairman-hs-says.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  considers Risto Siilasmaa,
the founder of software maker F-Secure Oyj, a frontrunner to
succeed Chairman Jorma Ollila this year, a person familiar with
the matter said.  No decision has been made because Nokia’s nomination
committee hasn’t met to recommend a new chairman, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the plan isn’t
public. Nokia declined to comment. The company typically
announces board changes in conjunction with its fourth-quarter
results, scheduled this year for Jan. 26.  Siilasmaa, 45, is chairman of  F-Secure (FSC1V@FH)  and of telephone
company Elisa Oyj. Known in  Finland  as a representative for
entrepreneurs and business investors, he joined Nokia’s board in
2008. If elected chairman, he’ll oversee Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Elop’s efforts to restore Espoo, Finland-based Nokia’s
fortunes in the smartphone segment after the world’s biggest
handset maker lost two thirds of its market share in four years
and more than 60 billion euros ($77 billion) in market value.  “Siilasmaa is one of the few people on the board with a
technology background and should be able to support and
challenge the CEO,” Sami Sarkamies, an analyst at Nordea Bank,
said by telephone. “He has probably been instrumental in the
company’s strategic change so far, and can’t really be blamed
for past mistakes as he’s only been there for three years.”  Siilasmaa declined to comment in an e-mail to Bloomberg.
 Helsingin Sanomat  newspaper reported the news today.  Shares Climb  Nokia climbed as much as 7.8 percent in Helsinki trading
after blogger  Eldar Murtazin  wrote that Nokia and  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  executives will meet soon to discuss a potential
transaction involving the sale of Nokia’s smartphone unit to
Microsoft.  Tomi Kuuppelomaeki, a Nokia spokesman, and Microsoft’s
Frank Shaw declined to comment. Nokia was up 7.2 percent at 4.16
euros as of 5:13 p.m. Nokia’s stock plummeted 51 percent last
year, its fourth annual fall since soaring 71 percent in 2007.  Microsoft added 0.2 percent to $27.45 in  New York .  Speculation that Nokia could be acquired by Microsoft
resurfaced repeatedly after Google Inc. acquired Motorola
Mobility Inc. last year. Elop has rebutted the speculation and
said on Finnish television last month that Nokia headquarters
will remain in Finland as long as he is CEO. Danske Bank said in
December that the mobile-phone maker could sell the smartphone
business to Microsoft.  Rating  Credit Suisse analysts today raised Nokia to “outperform”
from “underperform” and increased its price estimate to 6
euros from 4 euros. The bank said it “fundamentally” believes
Nokia’s focus on Windows will allow it to drive a recovery this
year in both sales and earnings.  Ollila, 61, said at Nokia’s annual general meeting on May 3
last year that he was willing to continue as chairman until this
year’s shareholder meeting. As CEO from 1992 to 2006, he
transformed Nokia from an industrial conglomerate to the world’s
top mobile-phone maker. He has been chairman since 1999. Last
year he replaced hand-picked CEO successor Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo
with Elop, a Microsoft executive, to reverse the tailspin.  “Siilasmaa doesn’t have that much global experience but
he’s a fast mover,” said Helena Nordman-Knutson, an analyst at
Pareto Oehman in  Stockholm . The Finnish base is the main source
of continuity for investors, she said.  2007 iPhone Debut  Other Finns on the Nokia board are busy as CEOs of their
own companies, making a choice of Siilasmaa logical, she said.
Matti Alahuhta, the CEO of elevator maker Kone Oyj and an
executive vice president at Nokia during Ollila’s time as CEO,
would also have been a good choice, she added. Alahuhta said in
December that he will remain as CEO of Kone.  After Apple Inc. introduced the iPhone in 2007, Nokia’s
slow-moving product organization was unable to keep up with
consumer demands for user-friendliness and integration with
Internet content. The company’s smartphone market share fell
from  50.8 percent  at the iPhone’s debut to 16 percent in the
third quarter of 2011, according to Gartner Inc.  It remains the world’s largest maker of mobile phones
overall, with factories around the world churning out as many as
a million handsets a day. Elop has adopted Microsoft’s Windows
Phone software for the company’s latest smartphone line, called
Lumia, and deepened the partnership with the Redmond, Washington
software maker.  Startup Investor  Siilasmaa founded F-Secure, originally called Data Fellows,
in 1988 as a student at the Finnish technology institute that is
now Aalto University. The company listed shares on the Helsinki
stock exchange in 1999, the last major high-tech company to join
the stock exchange in the Nordic country.  His lack of experience at companies on the scale of Nokia
is a weakness and is the main reason Siilasmaa wasn’t seen as a
shoo-in for the chairman job earlier, Nordea’s Sarkamies said.  Siilasmaa owned  39.73 percent  of F-Secure as of Dec. 31,
according to the company’s website. He has invested in Finnish
startups including online shopping portal Fruugo Oy, together
with Ollila, and micropayment supplier  Ape Payment Oy , and
worked with the Finnish government to establish startup
incubators.  Siilasmaa serves on Nokia’s corporate governance and
nominations committee, along with former SAP AG CEO Henning Kagermann and Pearson Plc CEO Marjorie Scardino, who is also
vice chairwoman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  