-- BP Ordered to Boost Safety Following Norway Probe Into Fire
-- B y   J o n a s   B e r g m a n   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-01-05T13:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/norway-safety-agency-warns-bp-after-investigating-valhall-fire.html
BP Plc (BP/)  was ordered to improve safety
after being accused of “serious non-conformities” by Norway’s
Petroleum Safety Agency following an investigation into a fire
last July at the North Sea Valhall platform.  The fire was caused by a crane engine that overheated and
blew sparks into flammable gases, creating a blaze that took
more than an hour and a half to extinguish, the report  said .
While no one was hurt, the accident had the potential to cause
injuries and the loss of life, the agency said.  “The PSA’s investigation of the incident has identified a
number of serious breaches of the regulations related to BP’s
management system,” the agency said in an e-mailed statement.
“These relate to lack of maintenance, deficient maintenance
management, inadequacies in risk identification and deficient
barrier management.”  The findings are a setback for BP’s efforts to bolster
safety at its operations worldwide after the April 2010
 explosion (BP/)  at the Macondo well in the  Gulf of Mexico  killed 11
workers and triggered the worst U.S. oil spill. Chief Executive
Officer Bob Dudley said the company had reached a turning point
in the third quarter after temporarily shutting down 48
exploration and production operations across the globe to ensure
higher standards were implemented.  ‘Corrective Actions’  “A number of corrective actions have since been taken to
ensure crane maintenance is upgraded and that there is no
repeat, either on the Valhall platform or other BP Norway
facilities,” London-based BP spokesman Mark Salt said in an e-
mailed statement. “The company is always committed to learning
from incidents in an effort to continually improve its
performance.”  The Norwegian investigation took issue with the protection
and maintenance of the crane engine, the fire detection system,
and the management of work processes, according to the report.
The agency ordered BP to take steps to ensure higher standards
and set a Feb. 1 deadline for the company to submit a plan to
improve deficiencies. The deadline for complying with the order
is July 1.  The report found that safeguards against excessive
temperatures on the crane weren’t in operation and that
suggested maintenance hadn’t been done. An earlier report showed
the alarm system wasn’t working in 2005, and BP couldn’t show
documentation that it had been repaired.  The spark catcher and muffler for the crane hadn’t been
maintained and was in “poor condition,” the report said. The
cold water pump on the crane wasn’t regularly checked.  The fire detection system on the platform didn’t have
continuous energy power, and the installation wasn’t equipped
with permanent fire extinguishing systems, the report said.  BP resumed operations at its Valhall oil and gas field on
Sept. 17, almost two months after the fire.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy 
at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  