-- Cordray Appointment Signals Obama’s Readiness to Campaign Against Congress
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-01-05T16:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/obama-s-naming-of-cordray-signals-readiness-for-brawling-election-campaign.html
President  Barack Obama  signaled
readiness for a brawling election campaign by bypassing the  U.S.
Senate  on high-profile appointments after disappointing
supporters for not taking a stronger stance against Republicans.  The president’s defiance of congressional Republicans in
naming a consumer financial watchdog and three National Labor
Relations Board members without Senate consent may harm the
chances of other nominees requiring confirmation for the rest of
his term and also end in court.  Yet Obama’s decision to make the appointments during a
brief Senate recess helps frame his election-year gambit of
running against a gridlocked Congress. It’s part of a “we can’t
wait” theme the White House has stamped on this and other moves
to act upon matters where Congress has blocked the president.  It’s a fighting stance for a president facing a Republican
leader,  Mitch McConnell , who said his goal is to make Obama a
one-term president. Obama has drawn criticism from fellow
Democrats for giving in to Republicans on other matters such as
continuing President George W. Bush’s tax cuts for upper-income
Americans.  Angry Rebukes  Republican leaders issued angry rebukes over Obama’s recess
appointments yesterday and suggested courts may bar the move.  The action “threatens the confirmation process and
fundamentally endangers the Congress’s role in providing a check
on the excesses of the executive branch,” said McConnell,
Senate minority leader and a Kentucky Republican.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said Obama
made an “extraordinary and entirely unprecedented power grab”
in naming Richard Cordray to lead the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau.  Tough tactics by Republicans slowed many confirmations to a
crawl during Obama’s administration and led some nominees to
withdraw their names after delays. A White House statement said
181 nominees are pending before the Senate, with an average
waiting time of 165 days.  Clinton, Bush Appointments  President  Bill Clinton  made 95 recess appointments to full-
time positions, according to the  Congressional Research Service ,
while Bush made 99. A president hasn’t made a recess appointment
during a Senate break of fewer than three days since 1949, said
Betty Koed, an associate Senate historian.  With other key appointments pending, including two picks
for Federal Reserve Board governors as well as the two top posts
at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., Obama’s move risks
igniting further opposition, said Eric Ueland, who was chief of
staff to former Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, a Tennessee
Republican.  “Members of the Senate will be looking even more carefully
at how the Obama administration operates, the nominees it
selects and what it might choose to do if facing well-founded
resistance against confirmation,” said Ueland, now a vice
president at the Duberstein Group in Washington.  Obama yesterday accused Republicans of blocking Cordray’s
confirmation because they want to weaken the Dodd-Frank
financial regulatory law that created the agency. His move was
backed by top Democratic leaders, including Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada , House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi 
of California and Senate Banking Committee Chairman Tim Johnson
of  South Dakota .  ‘Hurts Our Economy’  “When Congress refuses to act and as a result hurts our
economy and puts people at risk, then I have an obligation as
president to do what I can without them,” Obama said at a high
school in Shaker Heights,  Ohio .  Obama’s new appointments drew criticism from Republican
presidential hopefuls. Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney
said they reflect “Chicago-style politics at its worst.”
Former  Pennsylvania  Senator Rick Santorum, who almost tied
Romney in this week’s Iowa caucuses, told reporters today that
if he were still in the Senate, he would refuse to work until
the president reversed his decision.  “I’d go to the ramparts on this one,” Santorum said at a
Rotary Club breakfast in Manchester,  New Hampshire . “I hope
that the Senate has the backbone to say, ‘You will withdraw
these nominations or we are doing nothing.’”  First Director  Obama nominated Cordray to be the bureau’s first director
in July, and Republicans blocked his Senate confirmation last
month. Yesterday’s labor board appointees are Sharon Block and
Richard Griffin, nominated last month, and Terence F. Flynn,
whose nomination had been stalled since last January.  The Constitution gives presidents the power to make
appointments when the Senate is in recess. Republicans won
bipartisan agreement to keep Congress in pro forma sessions
every three days through the holidays to keep Obama from making
recess appointments. Almost all Senate Republicans oppose
Cordray’s nomination because they say the consumer agency’s
powers are too broad.  Obama’s appointments went beyond the power asserted by most
previous administrations to install officials without Senate
action.  Postal Service Case  In a 1993 case involving the Postal Service Board of
Governors, Justice Department lawyers argued that presidents can
make recess appointments when the Senate is out of session for
more than three days. The court papers suggested that a
president might lack that authority during shorter breaks.  A legal challenge is likely, possibly by a business
affected by the consumer bureau’s oversight, said C. Boyden Gray, White House counsel under President  George H.W. Bush . The
U.S. Chamber of Commerce is also considering a lawsuit, said
David Hirschmann, president of the group’s Center for Capital
Markets Competitiveness.  The appointment “makes a mockery of the confirmation
process,” said Gray, who became ambassador to the European
Union in 2006 when  George W. Bush  appointed him during a
congressional recess. “It’s been a pretty well-accepted
consensus over the last two decades that you have to have a
minimum of at least three days.”  ‘Unilateral Power’  Another veteran of George W. Bush’s administration, former
Deputy Assistant Attorney General John Elwood, said Obama
probably was acting within his authority.  “The alternative would be giving the Senate the unilateral
power to prevent the president from making recess
appointments,” Elwood said.  Only a handful of court cases have tested the recess-
appointment power. The boundaries have instead been defined over
time through “give and take” between the president and the
Senate, said Edward A. Hartnett, a professor at Seton Hall
University School of Law in  Newark ,  New Jersey .  “Presidents push and senators push back,” Hartnett said.  After lawmakers return to  Washington  later this month,
Obama has a cluster of posts he is trying to fill, including the
comptroller of the currency and more than three dozen federal
judgeships.  ‘Poisons the Well’  John Cornyn of  Texas , a member of the Senate Republican
leadership team, said Obama’s move “poisons the well further”
on confirmations and makes clear the president “has decided to
politic fulltime.”  Some former lawmakers, though, said the president’s risks
are low given Republican animosity toward many of his nominees.  “It’s hard to injure a relationship that isn’t working at
all,” said former Senator Byron Dorgan, a North Dakota Democrat
who is now a lobbyist. “The wrestling match about recess
appointments has gone on for a long time, and will in the future
as well.”  Obama is probably helped by taking on Republican
congressional leaders before he faces voters, said former
Senator Arlen Specter, who represented Pennsylvania as a
Republican starting in 1981 before changing his party
affiliation to Democratic in 2009.  “Besides being good public policy, it’s good politics,”
Specter said. “It shows that the president’s prepared to move
ahead in a decisive manner to circumvent gridlock in Washington
being caused by filibuster in the Senate and the  Tea Party  in
the House.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  