-- Oil Little Changed as U.S. Supplies, Europe’s Economy Counter Iran Threat
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-01-06T07:54:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/oil-falls-a-second-day-after-surprise-increase-in-u-s-crude-stockpiles.html
Oil was little changed in  New York  as
rising U.S. stockpiles and signs that  Europe ’s economy is
worsening put a limit on a weekly advance driven by speculation
that sanctions would curb the supply of crude from Iran.  Futures vacillated between gains and losses after the
Energy Department said U.S.  crude stockpiles (DOESCRUD)  climbed 2.2 million
barrels last week. A median decline of 1 million barrels was
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of analysts. Reports today
may show that European consumer confidence slumped to the lowest
level in two years and factory orders fell, according to
economists. Oil has gained 2.9 percent this week on concern
sanctions against Iran will limit supplies.  “The bigger issues are the geopolitical crisis with  Iran 
and the European debt crisis, pushing and pulling against the
market,” said  Anthony Nunan , a senior adviser for risk
management at Mitsubishi Corp. in  Tokyo , who described the U.S.
stockpile data as bearish. “We had an overreaction to the
upside and people are coming back to the reality that the
European crisis will still be a big drag on the economy.”  Crude for February delivery was at $101.90 at 3:45 p.m.
Singapore time. Yesterday, the contract dropped $1.41 to $101.81,
the lowest settlement this week. Prices gained 8.2 percent in
2011.  Brent oil for February settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange rose 0.1 percent, to $112.87 a barrel.
The European benchmark contract was at a $10.95 premium to New
York-traded West Texas Intermediate crude. The spread was a
record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Iran Sanctions  Brent’s premium has widened from $7.93 a barrel on Dec. 27
amid heightened tension over sanctions aimed at curbing  Iran’s
nuclear program . The country, the third-largest oil exporter
globally, has threatened to shut the Strait of Hormuz, a transit
route for a fifth of the world’s crude.  Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti yesterday questioned the
scope and timing of possible European Union sanctions against
Iran, raising an obstacle to stiffer penalties.  The EU is working to halt oil purchases from Iran, U.S.
State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said. European
foreign ministers aim to announce harsher penalties on the
Persian Gulf nation’s energy and banking industries at a meeting
Jan. 30, according to EU spokesman  Michael Mann .  ‘Shooting Star’  Oil in New York may fall next week on speculation Iran
won’t block the  Strait of Hormuz  and concern that Europe will
struggle to contain its debt crisis, a Bloomberg News survey
showed. Fifteen of 32 analysts and traders, or 47 percent,
forecast futures will decrease through Jan. 13. Fourteen
predicted prices will rise.  West Texas Intermediate futures may decline as price
movements this week have created a “shooting star” on the
candlestick chart, a bearish technical formation, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Stochastic oscillators also remain
above a reading of 70, signaling crude is overbought.  Gasoline stockpiles in the U.S., the world’s biggest oil
consumer, rose 2.48 million barrels in the week ended Dec. 30,
the Energy Department report also showed. Supplies were  forecast (DOEASMGS) 
to gain 1 million barrels, according to the median estimate of
13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Distillate-fuel (DOESDIST) 
inventories, which include heating oil and diesel, were up 3.22
million barrels, more than three times the estimated increase of
1 million barrels.  Gasoline supplies in independent storage climbed to the
highest level in almost six months in the European hub of
Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp, according to PJK International BV.
Stockpiles rose 14 percent to 706,000 metric tons in the week to
yesterday, the researcher in Breda,  Netherlands , said yesterday.  Retail sales in the  euro zone  dropped 0.4 percent in
November and  consumer confidence  fell to the lowest in more than
two years last month, according to Bloomberg surveys before
reports today. Factory orders in  Germany , the Europe’s largest
economy, slid 1.8 percent in November, another survey showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  