-- Molopo Looking ‘Aggressively’ to Buy North American Oil, Gas Assets
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-01-05T06:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/molopo-looking-aggressively-to-buy-north-american-oil-gas-assets.html
Molopo Energy Ltd. (MPO) , an Australian
exploration company focusing on projects in  Canada  and the U.S.,
will “look aggressively” at buying North American oil and gas
assets during the next six months.  Molopo is considering purchases of assets owned by Calgary-
based explorers and producers that need funds and have too much
debt, Chief Executive Officer Tim Granger said in a phone
interview from the Canadian city.  “There is a window of opportunity,” said Granger, who
started as CEO at Melbourne-based Molopo on Jan. 3. “In Calgary
a bunch of companies have put themselves into a challenging
position, and it’s not because their asset base isn’t good.
They’ve gotten themselves a little over-leveraged.”  Molopo, which plans to sell its coal-bed methane assets in
 Australia  as it expands in North America, had cash or cash
equivalent of A$90.7 million ($94 million) on June 30 and
 liabilities (MPO)  of A$33.8 million. Canada-based oil and gas
exploration companies have an average debt to equity ratio of 34
percent compared with 4 percent for their Australia-based
rivals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Companies based outside of the U.S. and Canada made offers
worth $57 billion for North American oil and gas exploration and
production companies last year, the most in at least 12 years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average premium was
37 percent, the data showed.  Molopo (MPO)  last year increased its exploration holdings in the
Permian Basin of  Texas  and added to its position in the Bakken
shale formation in Saskatchewan. Its shares fell 0.8 percent to
61 Australian cents in Sydney, valuing it at A$150 million.  Share Sale  The company is also studying selling shares in North
America, potentially Toronto, Granger said yesterday, declining
to give a timeline or to identify any acquisition targets.  “The board doesn’t believe the assets are getting proper
representation with just an Australian listing,” according to
Granger, who was previously the chief executive officer of
Calgary-based Compton Petroleum Corp.  Molopo expects to complete negotiations over the potential
sale of its Queensland assets in the first quarter of 2012, the
company said last month.  “We have buyers who are interested and are spending time
and effort to look at the Queensland assets,” Granger said.
“We’re doing our own math to make sure that whatever number
they put forward meets our objective.”  Granger was hired to replace Ian Gorman as CEO after the
board determined that Molopo should focus on  North America  to
align with the location of its major assets, the company said
Nov. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  