-- Woodford Sues Olympus Over Dismissal, Giving Up Proxy Battle for Control
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2012-01-07T03:48:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/olympus-ex-chief-woodford-won-t-battle-for-control-after-lack-of-support.html
Olympus Corp. (7733) ’s former Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Woodford  said he’s suing the Japanese
camera maker over his dismissal as he abandoned plans to wage a
proxy battle for control of the company.  Woodford, 51, filed a case in the U.K. last week seeking
damages for the remainder of his four-year contract and
additional costs, and may also file a case in Japan, the British
national told reporters yesterday in Tokyo. He declined to
specify the amount he is seeking.  The announcement came as Woodford abandoned efforts to
regain control of Tokyo-based Olympus, which fired him after he
questioned $1.5 billion in takeover costs that have become the
center of criminal investigations of the company. The former CEO,
who was dismissed Oct. 14, cited a lack of support from Japanese
 shareholders (7733) .  “None of the major Japanese institutional shareholders
have offered one word of support to me,” Woodford said in a
statement earlier yesterday. They “have in effect allowed the
tainted and contaminated  board (7733)  to continue in office.”  Olympus rose 2.1 percent to 1,053 yen as of the 3 p.m.
close of trading on the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange today. The  shares (7733) 
have fallen 58 percent since Woodford was fired.  ‘Avoid Turmoil’  “Olympus can avoid turmoil thanks to the withdrawal of
Woodford,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , who helps oversee $6 billion at
Shinkin Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “The next focus is
whether or not Tokyo Stock Exchange will delist Olympus.”  The company’s plans won’t be affected by Woodford
withdrawing his bid for control, Tsuyoshi Kitada, a spokesman
for Olympus, said by phone yesterday. It may still hold an
emergency shareholder meeting as early as March depending on the
results of its panel reviewing management at the company, he
said.  Olympus can’t confirm whether Woodford has filed a lawsuit,
Kitada said.  Olympus’s biggest shareholder,  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc. (8316) , said it would maintain support for the company after
Japanese prosecutors raided Olympus’s offices following
admissions that it hid investment losses for more than a decade.
Southeastern Asset Management Inc., the company’s biggest
overseas stockholder, and Harris Associates LP have said the
entire board and all executives involved in the fraud must go.  Reform ‘Must Proceed’  “Though Mr. Woodford is no longer a factor, reform must
still proceed,” David Herro, chief investment officer at
Chicago-based Harris, Olympus’s ninth-largest shareholder, said
in an e-mail. “As the third-party committee implied, the entire
board is responsible and must all be replaced.”  Josh Shores, senior analyst and principal at Southeastern,
expressed regret that Woodford ended his fight for control.
Olympus, Shores said in an e-mailed statement, “continues to
suffer under shoddy corporate governance and an utterly
discredited board.”  Allowing the current board to remain is damaging to the
company, Woodford said in his statement.  Olympus has  lost (7733)  about $5 billion of market value since
firing Woodford and restated more than five years of earnings
last month to avoid being automatically delisted from the Tokyo
Stock Exchange after admitting to a 13-year cover-up.  Inflated Fees  The company inflated fees to advisers on the 2008
acquisition of Gyrus Group Plc and overpaid in purchasing three
Japanese companies with the intention of increasing goodwill, an
independent panel investigating the fraud said last month.  The panel set up to investigate the fraud said in its
report it found a culture of “yes men” and a board that failed
in its duty to stop a “rotten” core of executives from duping
auditors, regulators and investors.  Olympus admitted in November that former Chairman Tsuyoshi
Kikukawa, Hisashi Mori, who was fired as executive vice
president, and Hideo Yamada, a former company auditor, colluded
to hide losses from securities investments in the 1990s.
Olympus’s main bank and business partners hold stakes in the
company, which is common among Japanese companies.  “The fact that such a situation can exist despite the
explicit findings of the third-party committee is depressing and
totally disorientating to those looking in on  Japan  from the
outside,” Woodford said. “This issue of the weaknesses created
by the cross-shareholding system is the most important single
factor Japan needs to address to be successful in confronting
the obvious challenges it faces.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  