-- ONGC Said to Develop Arabian Sea Gas Field by 2016, May Spend $4 Billion
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-01-05T06:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/ongc-said-to-develop-gas-fields-near-india-by-2016-may-spend-4-billion.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) , India’s
biggest energy explorer, plans to produce natural gas from
discoveries off the country’s west coast in four years in a move
that may boost its output of the fuel by 13 percent.  The reservoir in the Arabian Sea is located about 50
kilometers (31 miles) from the federal territory of Daman and
may hold more than 100 billion cubic meters of gas, or about
half the size of India’s largest deposit, said three people with
direct knowledge of the matter, asking not to be identified
because the information isn’t public.  “The reserves are significant,” said Deepak Darisi, a
Mumbai-based analyst with LKP Shares & Securities Ltd., who
advises investors to buy ONGC shares. “ONGC has the technology
to produce from the Daman field on its own.”  ONGC is stepping up exploration and acquiring stakes from
rivals in Indian waters at a time when declining output at home
has curbed gas supplies to  Asia ’s second-fastest growing major
economy. The New Delhi-based company said yesterday it will buy
BG Group Plc’s stakes in two Bay of Bengal areas, following the
purchase of Cairn India Ltd.’s 10 percent holding in another
block.  The ONGC stock fell 0.8 percent to 264.70 rupees at 11:56
a.m. in Mumbai trading, compared with a 0.5 percent increase in
the benchmark Sensitive Index.  The state-owned oil and gas producer may spend $4 billion
to develop the deposit, one of the people said. ONGC Chairman
Sudhir Vasudeva didn’t answer two calls to his mobile phone
seeking comment.  Mumbai High  The deposit lies near the more than three-decade-old Mumbai
High fields, which produce about 43 percent of  India ’s crude oil
and 37 percent of the nation’s gas. ONGC plans to build a
terminal about 100 kilometers north of Mumbai to receive and
process the gas, the three people said.  The area may produce as much as 8 million cubic meters of
gas a day at its peak, boosting output by 13 percent, and may
start in about four years, one of the people said.  ONGC produced 1.9 billion cubic meters of gas in November
from domestic fields, according to oil ministry data. The
company plans to increase its domestic output to 100 million
cubic meters a day by April 2015, Chairman Vasudeva has said.  The company will buy BG’s stakes in two blocks in the Bay
of Bengal’s Krishna Godavari and Mahanadi basins, S.V. Rao,
ONGC’s director in charge of exploration, said yesterday in  New
Delhi . BG, which retains stakes in a producing venture and an
exploration project in the country, will pay ONGC $50 million
for failing to fulfill its drilling commitments, he said.  BG Assets  BG, the U.K.’s third-largest natural-gas producer, is
withdrawing from the KG-OSN-2004/1 block in the Krishna Godavari
basin and the MN-DWN-2002/02 license in Mahanadi. It retains a
30 percent stake in the KG-DWN-2009/1 permit.  “BG Group is not in the process of exiting India,”  Mark
Todd , a company spokesman, said by e-mail. “As we’ve noted
previously, BG Group keeps all of the assets in its global
portfolio under review.”  The company said in April 2010 it had withdrawn from a
deepwater block in India, KG-DWN-98/4, citing a lack of clear
documentation on the validity of a production-sharing contract.  BG has a 30 percent stake in the Panna-Mukta and Tapti
fields in the  Arabian Sea  in partnership with ONGC and Reliance
Industries Ltd. It also successfully bid for the MB-DWN-2010/1
license off western India in a 2010 auction, and has yet to be
awarded the contract by the government, its website shows.  BG’s interests in India include the supply and distribution
of liquefied natural gas. The company agreed in September to
sell as much as 2.5 million metric tons of LNG to Gujarat State
Petroleum Corp. for 20 years, starting in 2014.  Separately, BG is seeking buyers for its 65 percent stake
in Gujarat Gas Co., a utility operating in the west Indian
state. It owns a 49.8 percent stake in Mumbai-based Mahanagar
Gas Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  