-- Monsanto Profit Tops Analyst Estimates as Seed Sales Gain in Latin America
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-01-05T15:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/monsanto-profit-tops-analyst-estimates-on-latin-america-seeds.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest
seed company, posted first-quarter earnings that exceeded
estimates as Latin American farmers grew more genetically
modified corn and said U.S. orders are ahead of last year.  Net income climbed to $126 million, or 23 cents a share, in
the three months through November, from $9 million, or 2 cents,
a year earlier, St. Louis-based Monsanto said today in a
statement. Monsanto said last month that earnings would be 15
cents to 20 cents a share, and the average of 10  estimates (MON) 
compiled by Bloomberg was for profit of 18 cents.  First-quarter revenue rose 33 percent to $2.44 billion from
$1.84 billion as farmers in the southern hemisphere bought more
genetically modified corn seed. Chief Executive Officer  Hugh Grant  is increasing sales in Argentina and  Brazil , the drivers
of first-quarter earnings, where he plans to introduce the first
insect-killing soybean seeds.  “The strength in the quarter was driven by a sharp
increase in biotech seeds and traits in the Brazil and Argentina
markets,” Michael E. Cox, a New York-based analyst at Piper
Jaffray Cos. who rates the shares “overweight,” said in a note
yesterday. “Farmers are quickly upgrading to advanced seed
technology to bolster yields and combat insect pressure.”  Forecast Narrowed  Shares of Monsanto  rose (MON)  4.7 percent to $76.11 as of 9:58
a.m. in  New York , the biggest intraday gain in three months.  Monsanto narrowed its full fiscal-year earnings forecast to
$3.39 to $3.44 a share, compared with a December  forecast (MON)  of
$3.34 to $3.44. The average estimate of 13 analysts in the
survey was for profit of $3.44 a share. U.S. seed orders are
ahead of last year and “tracking well” with 2012 goals,
Monsanto said.  “We’ve seen a very strong start to the year, with real
growth in  Latin America  and early orders in the United States
that underscore our sustained momentum carrying into 2012,”
Grant said in the statement  Monsanto said it advanced a record 14 research projects
toward commercialization. The company also maintained its full-
year cash-flow guidance of $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion.  Results in Monsanto’s first and fourth quarters are
typically weakest because farmers are between planting seasons
in  North America  and  Europe , where the company generated about
two-thirds of its  revenue (MON)  last fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 