-- Monsanto Says Higher Seed Orders Not Due to ‘Panic Buying’
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-01-05T21:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/monsanto-says-gain-in-early-u-s-seed-orders-not-result-of-panic-buying-.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest
seed company, said early U.S. orders are ahead of last year as
farmers seek higher yields and not because of concerns that
there will be a shortage.  Orders are in line with Monsanto’s sales forecast for its
latest genetically modified corn and soybean seeds, Chief
Executive Officer  Hugh Grant  said today. The gains reflect
“real growth” in demand, Grant said on a conference call to
discuss first-quarter results.  “I don’t see this as panic buying as much as a recognition
of the yield increment that we are delivering and farmers
rewarding us for that with early commitments,” he said.  Some of St. Louis-based Monsanto’s smaller competitors may
not have enough corn seed this year because they operate in
regions that were hurt by unusually hot weather in 2011, Grant
said. Monsanto supplements its U.S. inventories with seeds
raised in  Latin America  and it can meet demand, he said.  “The majors with established winter nursery growing
facilities are going to be fine,”  Mark Gulley , a New York-based
analyst at Ticonderoga Securities LLC, said in a telephone
interview. “The smaller regionals that don’t have access to a
winter nursery, they clearly are hurt by the drought last
year.”  By some estimates, U.S. corn-seed output fell 25 percent to
50 percent, the Wall Street Journal  reported  yesterday.  DuPont
Co. (DD) ’s Pioneer Hi-Bred seed unit said today that it has enough
high-quality corn seed to meet demand. Officials at the Iowa
Corn Promotion Board and the U.S. Grains Council said today
there’s adequate corn-seed supply.  Shares Jump  “We feel good about our own position and we are ready,
willing and able to supply our farmer customers,” Grant said.
“We feel confident on our ability to supply across brands and
across zones.”  Monsanto  rose (MON)  as much 6.3 percent in  New York  after posting
fiscal first-quarter net income that beat analysts’ estimates.
The shares closed up 5.5 percent at $76.68.  Profit climbed to $126 million, or 23 cents a share, in the
three months through November, from $9 million, or 2 cents, a
year earlier, the company said today in a statement. That topped
the company’s December forecast for profit of 15 cents to 20
cents a share. The average of 10 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg was for 18 cents.  Revenue in the three months through November rose 33
percent to $2.44 billion from $1.84 billion as farmers in Brazil
and  Argentina  bought more genetically modified corn seed.  Monsanto narrowed its full fiscal-year earnings forecast to
$3.39 to $3.44 a share, compared with a December  forecast (MON)  of
$3.34 to $3.44. The average estimate of 13 analysts in the
survey was for profit of $3.44 a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  