-- Monti Says Any Iranian Oil Ban Should Be Gradual, Exclude Sales to Pay Eni
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-01-05T13:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/monti-says-any-iranian-oil-ban-should-be-gradual-exclude-sales-to-pay-eni.html
The leader of financially struggling
Italy questioned the scope and timing of a possible European
Union halt to Iranian oil purchases, raising an obstacle to
stiffer sanctions on  Iran ’s nuclear activities.  Penalties set to be announced on Jan. 30 should be phased
in and exempt crude sold by Iran to pay off debts to  Eni SpA (ENI) ,
Italy’s largest oil company, Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said.  “An oil embargo is conceivable as long as it remains
gradual and excludes the deliveries that serve to reimburse the
billion euros in debts that Iran owes to Eni, our national
company,” Monti told  France ’s  Le Figaro  in an interview
published today.  Europe ’s sanctions threat and an Iranian demand that U.S.
warships stay out of the  Persian Gulf  have stirred new tensions
between Iran and the West, contributing to higher energy prices.  Brent oil for February settlement rose as high as $114.64 a
barrel, the highest intraday level since Nov. 14, on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange today. It traded at $113.93 as
of 12:50 p.m.  EU sanctions decisions require that all 27 member states go
along. An oil-supply dislocation might further damage the
economies of  Italy  and Greece, two countries at the forefront of
the European debt crisis. Italy is battling to get by without a
bailout and Greece is seeking a second package.  Open, Transparent  Italy gets 13 percent of its imported crude from Iran,
Monti said, making it more sensitive to a supply shock than
other European countries. France, a prime backer of the ban,
taps Iran for only 3 percent of its oil imports, he said.  “We have to encourage an open and transparent dialogue
with Iran,” Monti said.  Rome-based Eni said on Dec. 8 it is owed less than $2
billion by Iran. A spokesman who requested anonymity declined to
comment today when asked whether Eni would call for EU or
Italian compensation if Iran repudiates that debt.  Italy’s objections to a blanket ban surfaced after  Greece 
signaled that it is on board with the sanctions, the latest move
to punish Iran for pursuing what the West says is a covert
atomic-weapons program.  Greece relied on Iran for 14 percent of its oil imports in
the first half of 2011, according to the U.S. Energy
Department’s Energy Information Administration. After holding up
an EU embargo last month, Greece has since decided to abide by
any curbs, an official at the Greek Environment, Energy and
Climate Ministry said on Jan. 3 on condition of anonymity.  The U.S. tightened its Iran sanctions on Dec. 31 and is
pushing the EU to follow suit. “The place to get Iran’s
attention is in the oil sector,”  Victoria Nuland , a State
Department spokeswoman, said yesterday in  Washington .  Iran, the world’s third-largest oil exporter, denies
Western contentions that it is seeking to build atomic weapons
and says its nuclear experiments are for electricity generation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  