-- Mortgage-Bond Market Roiled as Bernanke Report Fuels Speculation
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-01-05T21:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/mortgage-bond-market-roiled-as-bernanke-report-triggers-qe3-speculation.html
Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac mortgage
bonds that guide home-loan rates gained while those backed by
high-cost debt declined on speculation the U.S. government may
boost efforts to aid the housing market.  Yields on Fannie Mae’s current-coupon 30-year fixed-rate 
mortgage (MTGEFNCL)  securities, or those trading closest to face value,
declined about 4 basis points to 84 basis points more than 10-
year U.S. government debt as of 3:30 p.m. in  New York , the
tightest spread since May 19, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company’s 6.5 percent securities, whose
underlying loan rates average about 7 percent, fell almost 0.2
cent on the dollar to about 111 cents, Bloomberg data show.  The current-coupon bonds, which guide loan rates, extended
this month’s gains relative to Treasuries after a report from
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke yesterday called the
weakness in the housing market a “significant barrier” to U.S.
economic health.  “The white paper increases the probability of QE3 centered
on MBS as the paper emphasizes that housing is still a key
problem with no easy solution,” Morgan Stanley analysts Vipul Jain, Janaki Rao and Zofia Koscielniak wrote today in a note to
clients, referring to what would be the Fed’s third round of
bond buying called quantitative easing.  The Fed paper also suggests a higher probability of an
additional expansion to the Home Affordable Refinance Program,
or HARP, for Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  borrowers with little or
no home equity, the analysts said.  HARP Speculation  Refinancing damages holders of mortgage bonds that trade
for more than face value by returning their principal faster at
par.  Speculation about HARP changes was also fueled by a Jan. 4
note from Jaret Seiberg, a policy analyst at the Washington
Research Group. He theorized that President  Barack Obama  could
install a housing advocate at the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency , which regulates Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, after Obama
named a head to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with a
recess appointment, bypassing Senate opposition.  The White House has no plans for a new mass mortgage
refinancing program, an administration official with knowledge
of the matter said.  Yield spreads on Fannie Mae’s current-coupon securities
have tumbled from almost 100 basis points, or 1 percentage
point, on Jan. 2.  Sales of low-coupon bonds by mortgage originators was
“light again” yesterday at about $1 billion, which is “less
than the daily Fed appetite,” Walt Schmidt, a mortgage
strategist in  Chicago  at FTN Financial, said yesterday in a note
to clients. In October, the Fed began reinvesting proceeds from
its holdings of housing-related debt into the mortgage-bond
market.  High-coupon mortgage bonds aren’t underperforming “to an
alarming degree,” Schmidt wrote today in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  