-- Los Angeles Arson Suspect Needs Deputies’ Help to Stand in Court Hearing
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i ,   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-01-05T14:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/los-angeles-fires-suspect-burkhart-appears-in-court-needs-help-to-stand.html
A man accused of setting a series of
fires that terrorized  Los Angeles  over New Year’s weekend needed
the help of deputies to stand at his first court appearance as
new information surfaced about his home life.  Harry Burkhart, 24, appeared pale and unwell at the hearing
at the state criminal courthouse in Los Angeles. He didn’t enter
a plea on the 37 counts of arson that he’s charged with, saying
only “yes” through a German interpreter when the judge asked
whether he understood he had a right to be arraigned yesterday
and when he agreed to a postponement.  California Superior Court Judge Upinder Kalra rescheduled
the arraignment for Jan. 24 and set bail at $2.85 million,
denying a request by prosecutors that Burkhart, a German citizen
born in Chechnya, be held without bail. Burkhart’s public
defender, Gustavo Sztraicher, said after the hearing that it was
unlikely his client would be able to post bail.  Sztraicher declined to comment on the charges.  After Burkhart’s mother was arrested on Dec. 29, he went on
an arson spree that lasted until his own arrest on Jan. 2,
Deputy District Attorney Sean Carney said at yesterday’s
hearing. Burkhart may have set as many as 52 fires by putting
incendiary devices under the engines of parked cars, many of
which were parked in carports of apartment buildings, Carney
said.  ‘Hatred of Americans’  “He has a hatred of Americans,” Carney told the judge.
“This defendant engaged in a campaign of terror.”  Carney said Burkhart experimented with ways of setting the
fires during the four-night spree and got more sophisticated.
When police searched his residence, they found newspaper
articles about the fires from the Los Angeles Times as well as
articles from German newspapers about similar car fires in
 Frankfurt  in September, according to a court filing.  Burkhart was picked up Jan. 2 after images of him, taken by
a security camera, were distributed to the public and a reserve
sheriff’s deputy stopped his minivan. The fires caused more than
$3 million in damage, Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa said.  The 37 charges filed yesterday pertain to only 12 arson
incidents and more charges will follow, Carney said at the
hearing.  Burkhart’s mother, Dorothee, is also in detention, facing
deportation to her native Germany on 19 counts of fraud,
according to a complaint filed against her in federal court in
Los Angeles.  Dorothee Burkhart  Dorothee Burkhart, 53, is accused of not paying 7,680 euros
($9,930) owed for a 2004 breast augmentation, skipping out on
rent on at least five apartments in Frankfurt and collecting
rent and security deposits to which she wasn’t entitled,
according to the complaint.  After she was charged in  Germany , a Frankfurt court
scheduled a trial in 2007. When Dorothee Burkhart didn’t appear,
an arrest warrant was issued and international law enforcement
agencies were asked to look for her, Doris Moeller-Scheu,
spokeswoman for Frankfurt prosecutors said in an interview
today.  A man who identified himself as her son was briefly
detained Dec. 29 after shouting obscenities about the U.S. at
her deportation hearing, according to Thom Mrozek, a spokesman
for the U.S. Attorney’s office in Los Angeles. She appeared in
court again on Jan. 3, saying her son was mentally ill and
asking if “German Nazis” were holding him.  Marburg, Germany  Harry Burkhart is being probed for arson and fraud by
prosecutors in Marburg, Germany, in connection with a fire set
on Oct. 14 at an uninhabited house in the countryside, said
Annemarie Wied, a spokeswoman for prosecutors in the city.  “The insurance company for the building was contacted on
the same day and asked to cover the damage,” she said. “That’s
why we are also looking into fraud.”  Harry and Dorothee Burkhart were listed as residents of two
apartments in Los Angeles, according to public records. A phone
number associated with one of the addresses was also used by
someone offering massages who described herself in an online
advertisement as a “beautiful, blonde, busty, sweet and very
professional Tantra Goddess and Doctor Sexologist.”  A call to the number indicated that the voice-mail box was
full.  The domain name hollywoodtantramassage.com is registered to
Dorothee Burkhart, according to register.com.  The case is People v. Burkhart, BA392381, Los Angeles
County Superior Court (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@Bloomberg.net  