-- Panoz Pursues $900,000 Le Mans Racecars Fueled by Nicotine Patch Fortune
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-01-05T16:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/panoz-pursues-900-000-le-mans-racecars-fueled-by-nicotine-patch-fortune.html
Don Panoz  made his fortune inventing
the nicotine patch. Inside a corrugated metal warehouse in a
north Atlanta suburb, he’s spending some of it to develop a
triangle-shaped car that could transform auto racing and
eventually make regular cars more efficient.  Panoz’s Elan Motorsport Technologies is putting the final
touches on its  DeltaWing , which looks a bit like the Batmobile.
It has a tapered design to reduce drag, a rear fin to boost
aerodynamics, and extremely thin (four inches wide) front tires
to remove weight and hug the road, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Jan. 9 issue.  Most importantly, it’s built using a special material
developed by Elan called Recyclable Energy Absorbing Matrix
System or REAMS. The composite plastic is 20 percent lighter
than the carbon fiber used in race cars and tough enough to
block bullets, according to Panoz. The car’s light weight
means it will use half the fuel of a typical Formula One racer,
he said.  “When you look at this car, the first thing you think is,
‘It’s going to fly,’” the 76-year-old Panoz said in an
interview in his office, where glass surfaces have a blue haze
from the Australian Winfield cigarettes he favors.  Aviation Clients  The near-term goal is to debut the car in  France ’s 24 Hours
of  Le Mans  race on June 16-17. But Panoz, whose company is one
of five partners creating the $900,000 DeltaWing, hopes REAMS
will affect transportation more generally. Elan’s client list
includes aviation companies such as  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and
 General Dynamics Corp. (GF) ’s Gulfstream unit and, as well as a major
Chinese automaker Panoz declines to name. REAMS is cost-
effective for regular vehicles since the material is cheaper
than carbon fiber, Panoz said.  “Everyone would like to have something lightweight that
absorbs energy on impact,” said  David Cole , chairman emeritus
at the  Center for Automotive Research  in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan ,
who has followed the Panoz car business for several years.  The family of Panoz auto companies, headed by his son, Dan,
is also awaiting European road approval on a new $500,000 sports
car called the  Abruzzi , named for the Italian city where Don
Panoz’s father was born. Only about 80 Abruzzis will be made,
each one corresponding to a historical Le Mans race, and buyers
will participate in a special ceremony at the 24-hour endurance
race when they take delivery of the car. Panoz also founded the
American Le Mans racing series.  Auto Icons  Hurley Haywood , a five-time winner of the Daytona 24-Hour
race and a three-time winner of the 24 Hours of Le Mans,
compares the Panoz designs with those of auto icons such as
 Carroll Shelby,  who helped create  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Shelby
Mustang GT.  “He’s willing to travel down a road that nobody has walked
before,” Haywood said in a telephone interview. “That’s what
 Henry Ford  did.”  Each Panoz car is hand-made. Only a couple thousand have
been produced since the family business was started after Dan
Panoz started building roadsters as a hobby in the 1990s. One of
the first Panoz race cars, called the Esperante GTR-1, beat Audi
and BMW eight times and won an award at the 1999 Autosport show
in  London  for its unusual design that put the engine in the
front of the car.  Racing and auto development were unexpected retirement
diversions for Panoz, who was raised in White Sulphur Springs,
 West Virginia , and studied as a pharmacist. In 1961 he founded
generic-drug maker Mylan Pharmaceuticals, which was based in an
abandoned roller skating rink and counted among its early
investors Pittsburgh Pirates baseball players Bill Mazeroski and
Bob Friend, who used some of their World Series winnings to fund
the startup.  Nicotine Patch  Panoz moved his family in 1969 from West Virginia to
Ireland, where he founded  Elan Corp. (ELN) , a drug maker that patented
time-release antibiotic pills that cut the dosage and cost in
half.  He came up with the idea for a time-release adhesive patch
while visiting his father in the hospital in 1975, when escaping
fumes from the nitroglycerine that was being administered with
paper bandages to treat his father’s heart condition gave Panoz
a headache. Panoz realized that a different backing could not
only prevent harmful fumes, but also target specific doses of
other medications that absorb into the skin at certain rates.  Panoz went on to patent an adhesive patch for nicotine and
received FDA approval in 1992. Similar technology is now used to
administer drugs ranging from birth-control to attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder.  “We just happened to patent it for nicotine,” Panoz said.
“It was by accident.”  ‘Wild Dreams’  Panoz stopped smoking for five years and used the nicotine
patch, but said it gave him “really wild dreams.”  He resumed
smoking 11 years ago after watching his friend Mario Andretti
crash while racing a Panoz car 170 miles an hour.  When he’s not at his Australian home or on extended
European visits, Panoz zips around Atlanta in one of his Panoz
roadsters -- there are more than 1,500 Panoz-built cars in
service -- or a white  Porsche (PAH3)  Panamera with tan interior.
Shuttling visitors between Panoz factories, he foregoes a
seatbelt and, with a cigarette dangling in his left hand, steps
on the gas pedal.  “We just touched 80,” he said with a grin. “What can I
say, I like to drive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anita Sharpe in Atlanta at 
 asharpe6@bloomberg.net . 