-- PBOC Suspends Bill Sale as Money Rates Rise Before Holiday
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-05T09:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/pboc-suspends-bill-sale-as-money-rates-rise-before-chinese-new-year-break.html
The People’s Bank of China refrained
from selling three-month  bills (PBOC3M)  for a second week today, helping
stem increases in money-market rates as banks hoard cash in the
run-up to the Chinese New Year holiday.  The central bank didn’t gauge demand for the securities,
according to two traders who declined to be identified because
the information isn’t public. The monetary authority will boost
the availability of cash by cutting lenders’  reserve
requirements (CHRRDEPC)  before the week-long holiday starts on Jan. 23,
economists at  Barclays Capital  and Bank of America Corp. predict.  “With no bill or repo sales, this week sees a net
injection of 51 billion yuan ($8.1 billion),” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a fixed-income strategist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong
Kong . “It will help, but may be not enough to bring fixings
lower.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate (CNRR007) , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, rose 51 basis points to
4.51 percent in  Shanghai , based on a daily fixing by the
National Interbank Funding Center. It reached a five-month high
of 5.60 percent on Dec. 30 before sliding 1.60 percentage points
yesterday after Premier  Wen Jiabao  said business conditions may
be “relatively difficult” this quarter and monetary policy
will be fine-tuned as needed.  The central bank cut the amount of cash that lenders must
set aside as reserves for the first time since 2008 last month
as  Europe ’s debt crisis dimmed the outlook for exports and
growth.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repo rate, jumped nine basis points to 3.07 percent.
The yield on the government’s 3.55 percent bond due October 2016
rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.06
percent, according to the Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 