-- Obama’s Defense Emphasizes Asia, Cybersecurity
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-01-05T18:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/pentagon-s-latest-defense-strategy-places-emphasis-on-asia-cybersecurity.html
President  Barack Obama  presented a
revamped U.S. military strategy for an era of budget cuts that
pledges to emphasize  Asia  and space and cyber capabilities while
preserving missions such as defeating al-Qaeda.  The new strategy outlined today calls for investments in
cybersecurity to defeat electronic attacks, in expanded space-
based intelligence platforms and for “developing a new stealth
bomber.” At the same time, it raises the possibility that U.S.
“deterrence goals can be achieved with a smaller nuclear
force” and says the U.S. presence in Europe “must evolve,”
without providing specifics.  “Our military will be leaner, but the world must know: The
United States is going to maintain our military superiority with
armed forces that are agile, flexible and ready for the full
range of contingencies and threats,” Obama said today in an
appearance at the Pentagon.  Defense SecretaryLeon Panetta said in an introduction to
the strategy review that future U.S. forces “will be smaller
and leaner” while more “technologically advanced.”  Republican lawmakers, in e-mailed statements, criticized
the strategy from different angles -- as cutting too much, doing
too little to root out waste or putting the U.S. nuclear
deterrent at risk.  ‘Retreat from World’  Representative Howard P. “Buck” McKeon of  California ,
chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, said Obama has
packaged “a retreat from the world.”  “An honest and valid strategy for national defense can’t
be founded on the premise that we must do more with less, or
even less with less,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , the top Republican on the
Senate Armed Services Committee, said the Pentagon and lawmakers
must act to end cost overruns and “the waste, inefficiency, and
ineffective programs that result from an overly consolidated
military-industrial-Congressional complex.”  Representative Mike Turner of  Ohio , chairman of the House
Armed Services panel on strategic forces, said the strategy
would lead to cuts in U.S. nuclear forces “at the same time
Russia and  China  are modernizing and growing their forces and
 Iran  and North  Korea ’s illegal programs continue to develop
unchecked.”  $450 Billion Reduction  The review was presented by Obama, Panetta and Army General
Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. It was
commissioned last year to determine strategic choices for the
U.S. military as it faces $450 billion in  additional reductions (USBODEFN) 
through 2021, including about $261 billion through 2017.  The Pentagon strategy says “terrorist access to simple
nuclear devices poses the prospect of devastating consequences
for the  United States . Accordingly, the Department of Defense
will continue to enhance its capabilities, acting with an array
of domestic and foreign partners, to conduct effective
operations to counter the proliferation” of weapons of mass
destruction by nations such as Iran and North Korea.  One goal is “an active, whole-of-government effort to
frustrate the ambitions of nations bent on developing WMD, to
include preventing Iran’s pursuit of a nuclear weapons
capability,” the report finds.  While specific cuts won’t be detailed until Obama’s  budget (USBODEFN) 
proposal is released next month, the report today signals coming
cuts in personnel and changes in priority.  War, Deterrence  The new strategy departs from standing doctrine calling for
forces sufficient to fight two almost simultaneous major wars,
calling instead for the capacity to fight one major war while
deterring a second confrontation.  “Even when U.S. forces are committed to a large-scale
operation in one region, they will be capable of denying the
objectives of -- or imposing unacceptable costs on -- an
opportunistic aggressor in a second region,” the review finds.  U.S. forces “will have a global presence emphasizing the
Asia-Pacific and the Middle East while still ensuring our
ability to maintain our defense commitments to  Europe  and
strengthening alliances and partnerships across all regions,”
Panetta said in his introduction to the strategy.  Obama said in November, during a visit to  Australia , that
“reductions in U.S. defense spending will not -- I repeat, will
not -- come at the expense of the Asia-Pacific” region.  Panetta said in a November speech that “even as we enhance
our presence in the Pacific, we will not surrender our status as
a global power and a global leader.”  Trade-Offs  Any Pentagon trade-offs “in one area” to beef up the
Pacific “will bear consequences in another,” MacKenzie Eaglen,
a defense analyst with the Heritage Foundation in  Washington ,
which opposes major cuts in defense spending, said in advance of
the report’s release.  “As DoD squeezes U.S. force posture in Europe, including
bases, it will have a direct impact on the military’s ability to
respond to future conflicts like the no-fly zone in  Libya , rapid
response in Afghanistan post-9/11, and treating the wounded out
of  Iraq  the past decade,” she said in an e-mail. “There are no
consequence-free decisions.’”  Dov Zakheim, a former Pentagon Comptroller under George W,
Bush and now an adviser to Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  said the Pentagon needs to explain clearly any
modification in strategy to avoid sending the wrong message to
Iran or  North Korea .  “Suppose there is a threat from Iran and threat from
Korea,” he said. “What are we going to do? Ignore Iran or
ignore North Korea?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  