-- Pentagon Management of $2.6 Billion for Helicopters Questioned
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-01-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/pentagon-may-have-mismanaged-2-6-billion-helicopter-program.html
Pentagon officials may be mismanaging
a $2.6 billion program that buys foreign-made helicopters such
as the Russian Mi-17 and provides them to U.S. allies, the
Defense Department’s inspector general found.  U.S. defense officials “did not adequately manage the
acquisition and support” of aircraft, the inspector general
said in a one-page summary released yesterday.  The Pentagon purchases the so-called non-standard rotary
wing aircraft for allies whose pilots are less accustomed to
U.S.-made helicopters. The Afghanistan and Pakistan armies are
among military services that fly  Mi-17 helicopters . Non-standard
helicopters also include the MD-530F, AW-139 and Russian-made
Mi-35s.  Since 2007, the Pentagon has spent more than $1.6 billion
buying and supporting such helicopters and plans to spend an
additional $1 billion, according to an executive summary of a
report submitted to Congress by the inspector general. The
summary was released on the inspector general’s website.  Deputy Defense Secretary  Ashton Carter  in November 2010
consolidated Pentagon purchases of the helicopters under Army
aviation  oversight  in Huntsville,  Alabama .  “Specifically, Defense officials were unable to identify a
comprehensive list of all DoD-owned and supported Mi-17s, their
total ownership costs and all planned requirements” to support
the helicopters, according to the inspector general’s summary.  Not Fully Empowered  The Army office overseeing the helicopters hasn’t been
fully empowered to make all decisions about the aircraft for the
Pentagon, the summary found.  “As a result, the DoD may not have achieved the best value
for the more than $1.6 billion” it has spent “and is at risk
for inadequate management of more than $1 billion in estimated
future costs,” according to the inspector general.  The inspector general recommends that Pentagon leaders
grant the Army program office major defense acquisition program
authority and improve its capability to implement buying
practices for all Defense Department agencies.  The inspector general, in a separate audit, is reviewing
the oversight, management and pricing of Mi-17 overhauls and the
Pentagon’s ability to provide quality assurance for maintenance
done at a Russian facility.  The watchdog agency also is assessing whether the Army
contracting officer negotiated “fair and reasonable prices”
for $100.4 million in modifications. It’s also assessing whether
the program office approved $11 million to buy parts at
potentially inflated prices.  Army Response  Army project manager Colonel Bert Vergez said in an e-mail,
“This investigation was conducted during the early stages of
the project office’s initial creation, and the report reinforces
the decision by the  Department of Defense  to create it.”  “The office brings programmatic rigor and discipline to
the situation that prior to its creation did not exist,” Vergez
said. “Some of the shortcomings identified existed prior to the
program office being established. The office is in the process
of correcting and, in many cases, has corrected these
shortcomings.”  Vergez’s office has a contract with Moscow-based
 Rosoboronexport  State Corp. for 21 fully militarized Mi-17
choppers that include full western avionics packages of
navigation and communications equipment and are equipped to
handle rockets and guns. The Army said they cost about $16.4
million apiece, including integrating the electronics.  The corporation operates as an intermediary agency for the
export of Russian-made military equipment.  Nine of the helicopters were scheduled to be delivered by
Dec. 30 for use by the Afghanistan Army.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  