-- PepsiCo Said to Plan Job Cuts to Boost Profits as Stock Lags
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-01-05T19:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/pepsico-is-said-to-plan-job-cuts-as-north-american-beverage-sales-stagnate.html
PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  may cut jobs to boost
earnings, a person familiar with the plans said.  The company, led by Chief Executive Officer  Indra Nooyi ,
hasn’t determined how many of its 300,000 global employees will
be eliminated, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the plans are private.  “We are evaluating efficiencies in all areas of our
operations -- including employment levels and benefits,” Peter
Land, a PepsiCo spokesman, said in an emailed statement.  The evaluation is part of a business review that has been
going on since last year and mirrors what other companies are
doing in “today’s environment,” Land said.  PepsiCo announced Nov. 8 that it would extend a review of
its 2012 and long-term business plans after costs soared and
North America beverage sales stagnated. PepsiCo shares rose 1.6
percent last year, compared with a 6.4 percent gain by  Coca-Cola
Co. (KO) , prompting calls for the company to spin off its beverages
unit to boost returns.  Earlier today the New York Post reported that as many as
4,000 people would be fired.  “Information contained in certain media reports is
inaccurate and any changes affecting our employees will be
communicated to them first,” Land said.  Jack Horner , a spokesman for  News Corp ., the New York
Post’s owner, didn’t immediately return phone messages seeking
comment.  PepsiCo is considering whether some salaried employees will
continue to receive both a pension and 401K match, the person
said. The company won’t eliminate its 401K match for all
employees as reported earlier by the New York Post, the person
said. The company also has no plans to freeze salaries, the
person said.  PepsiCo fell less than 1 percent to $66.21 at 2:23 p.m. in
 New York  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  