-- Peruvian Mining Contracts Will Include Environmental Fund
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-01-05T21:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/peru-s-mining-contracts-to-include-environment-fund-valdes-says.html
Peru ’s government, which seeks to
curb anti-mining protests that threaten to derail $50 billion in
mining investment, said companies must set up an environmental
conservation fund as part of future contracts.  The government will also create an office in charge of
settling social conflicts related to mining and other
industries, the Andean country’s cabinet chief Oscar Valdes said
today in a  presentation  before Congress. He didn’t provide
details on the environmental fund.  Protests by farmers last year halted projects by  Newmont
Mining Corp. (NEM) ,  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) ,  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  Bear
Creek Mining Corp. (BCM)  Opponents to Newmont’s suspended $4.8 billion
Minas Conga gold mine staged marches in the northern highland
city of Cajamarca this week.  “The environmental guarantee fund will be used in case of
any damage done to the natural surroundings,” Valdes said.
“The government’s plan for responsible mining with the joint
participation of the state, the community and investors will be
fundamental to make mining investment viable.”  Newmont, which halted work in November at Conga, Peru’s
biggest investment project, will pay more than $2 billion in
taxes over the life of the mine, the company said in a statement
today. Newmont will invest $37.7 million in roads, schools and
social programs in the Cajamarca region, according to a fact
sheet from the company.  Government Efforts  “The efforts of the government and Newmont sound like a
step in the right direction to quell some of the demands of the
protestors,” Bret Rosen, a strategist at Standard Chartered
Bank in  New York , said in e-mailed comments. It will take time
“to calm the demands of the anti-Conga movement and allow the
project and others in the country to proceed without the specter
of other outbursts of protests and violence.”  Newmont rose less than 1 percent to $62.10 at the close in
New York. The stock has gained 6.8 percent over the past 12
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Carlos Caminada at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net  