-- Pfizer Restructures Indian Animal-Health Unit to Prepare for Consolidation
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-01-05T17:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/pfizer-restructures-indian-animal-health-unit-to-prepare-for-consolidation.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, said it will incorporate its Indian subsidiary’s
animal health unit into its larger animal division, signaling
the company has progressed in its push to divest the business.  The action is a step toward worldwide consolidation of New
York-based Pfizer’s animal health operations under one roof, the
company said. The change was announced in a statement today by
the Bombay Stock Exchange.  Pfizer is shedding its animal health and nutrition
businesses this year as part of Chief Executive Officer  Ian Read ’s plan to focus on developing new drugs. The reorganization
will let potential buyers or investors assess the business unit
as a whole, said Scott Rostan, chief executive office of
Training the Street, a New York company that trains finance
professionals, and a former M&A banker.  “This is going to be part of the final stages of them
getting serious,” Rostan said in a phone interview. “This
would be a clear indication that they’re proceeding forward.”  No decisions have been made as to whether the unit will be
sold, spun off or divested in some other way, said Joan Campion,
a Pfizer spokeswoman.  “In order for any potential transaction with  animal
health , in some countries the business needs to be separated out
from the legal entity that’s there,” she said today in a
telephone interview  The animal health unit had $3.58 billion in sales in 2010.
Its Asian operations, of which the India subsidiary is part,
were responsible for 14 percent of that total, or about $500
million, according to a company presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  