-- Philippine Bonds Advance as Inflation Cools to 11-Month Low
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-01-05T08:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/philippine-bonds-advance-as-inflation-cools-to-11-month-low.html
Philippine bonds advanced after a
report showed December  inflation (PHC2II)  cooled to an 11-month low,
boosting speculation the central bank will cut borrowing costs.  Consumer prices rose 4.2 percent last month from a year
earlier, compared with 4.8 percent in November, official data
showed today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey was for
a 4.7 percent gain. The report added to confidence that
inflation will be manageable, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said in a mobile-phone message. The peso snapped a two-
day rally as renewed concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening
sapped demand for emerging-market assets.  “Data supports the view that inflation may take the
background versus growth on policy decisions,” said Bunny Bernardo-Recto, vice president at Manila-based Chinatrust
Philippines Commercial Bank Corp. “Bond yields seem to factor a
probable easing at this month’s policy meeting.”  The yield on the 7.625 percent bonds due in September 2036
fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 6.25
percent, the lowest level since the notes were sold last year,
according to prices at Amstel Financial Services. The peso
closed 0.5 percent weaker at 43.982 per dollar, according to
Tullett Prebon Plc.  The monetary authority has scope to reduce borrowing costs
and may review the benchmark policy rate and banks’ reserve
requirement ratios at the Jan. 19 meeting, Tetangco told
reporters today in  Manila . Plans to “unify and simplify” rules
on reserves may be announced this month, he said.  “We continue to be mindful of global developments,
particularly geopolitical disturbances in the  Middle East  that
may negatively impact on the current sanguine outlook,”
Tetangco said separately in a mobile-phone message today.  The Southeast Asian nation sold $1.5 billion of 25-year
dollar bonds at a yield of 5 percent yesterday. The country only
needs to raise $750 million more from the global  debt market 
this year, Finance Undersecretary Rosalia de Leon said in a
mobile-phone message today.  The yield on the 5 percent January 2037 dollar bonds sold
yesterday fell one basis point to 4.99 percent, prices provided
by Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  