-- Pimco Attracts $60 Billion as New Funds Offset Total Return Woes
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2012-01-05T20:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/pimco-attracts-60-billion-as-new-funds-offset-total-return-woes.html
Pacific Investment Management Co. won
$60 billion in net deposits last year despite redemptions from
 Bill Gross ’s Total Return fund as investors put money into stock
funds and products designed to weather falling markets.  Pimco’s assets rose by $110 billion in 2011 to about $1.35
trillion, the fourth-largest increase in its 40-year history,
Mohamed El-Erian, the chief executive officer of the  Newport
Beach , California-based investment firm, said today in an
interview. Clients put money into Pimco’s new equity funds, so-
called tail-hedging funds that protect investors from swings in
the market, and asset-allocation products that can invest in an
array of securities, El-Erian said.  Over the last three years, Pimco has sought to reduce its
reliance on Total Return and traditional U.S. fixed-income
products by expanding into stocks and other strategies. The $244
billion  Pimco Total Return fund (PTTRX) , which more than quadrupled in
size over the past decade to become the world’s largest mutual
fund, had its first yearly withdrawals in 2011 after Gross
trailed benchmarks because of his avoidance of U.S. Treasuries.  “We recognized that the large rate of growth of our core
U.S. fixed-income business was unlikely to be sustained,” El-
Erian said in the interview. “We had a strong obligation to our
clients to evolve our product and solution capabilities
commensurate with what we identified as major transformations in
the global economy and markets.”  New Funds  Since 2008, the firm has opened funds such as the  Pimco
Unconstrained Bond Fund (PUBAX)  and Pimco Global Multi-Asset Fund, which
seek to minimize risk from systemic shocks. In 2009, Pimco hired
 Neel Kashkari , a former U.S. Treasury official, to lead an
expansion into stocks. The stock unit has since opened the EqS
Pathfinder Fund, which has gathered $2.1 billion in assets, and
the EqS Emerging Markets Fund, which has $492 million, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The firm opened exchange-traded funds and started an
advisory unit to help government agencies and financial
institutions assess the value of complex fixed-income holdings.
Pimco in September named Jennifer Bridwell as head of
alternatives product development as it expands hedge funds and
distressed-debt offerings.  Pimco has also added investors outside the U.S., with such
clients now accounting for about one-quarter of the firm’s
assets, El-Erian said.  ‘Morphing’ View  The expansion into other asset classes coincided with
Pimco’s “new normal” forecast for slower growth in the
developed economies, higher unemployment and subdued market
returns in the period following the 2008 financial crisis. Gross
wrote in his investment outlook yesterday that Pimco’s new
normal forecast was “morphing” into a view of extreme outcomes
characterized by credit risk and zero-bound interest rate risks.  “The financial markets are slowly imploding -- delevering
-- because there’s too much paper and too little trust,” Gross
wrote yesterday.  Gross reversed his earlier aversion to U.S. Treasuries and
the dollar, saying that investors should hedge their bets given
the extreme risks in the market and the possibility of a
“credit implosion” in  Europe . Gross, who eliminated his
Treasury holdings from the Total Return fund last February, has
since increased his holdings in  U.S. government debt  to 23
percent of the fund as of Nov. 30.  Total Return  Gross’s avoidance of Treasuries in the early part of 2011
caused him to trail benchmarks as investors rushed to the safety
of government-backed debt amidst the European sovereign-debt
crisis. Treasuries rose 9.8 percent in 2011, their best year
since 2008, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The Total Return Fund rose 4.2 percent last year, trailing
69 percent of rivals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The fund had $5 billion in withdrawals last year, according to
Chicago-based research firm  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  