-- Singapore Airlines, Qantas Repair ‘Small Cracks’ in Airbus A380 Wing Parts
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-01-06T03:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/qantas-says-small-cracks-found-in-wing-ribs-of-airbus-a380-being-repaired.html
Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  and  Qantas
Airways Ltd. (QAN) , operators of the biggest Airbus SAS A380 fleets in
the Asia-Pacific region, said “small cracks” found in plane-
wing parts were fixable and didn’t pose a safety threat.  The Singaporean carrier has already completed repairs on
wing-rib feet, which help support wings, on the two aircraft
where faults have been found, it said in a e-mailed statement
today. Qantas has begun work on its one affected plane, Thomas
Woodward, a spokesman, said by phone.  Airbus, the world’s largest commercial plane maker, said
yesterday cracks had been found in a “limited number” of A380s
and that it had alerted operators and regulators. The faults,
which are linked to a manufacturing issue, can be fixed during
scheduled four-year maintenance checks, according to the company.  “This is not a safety issue and aircraft performance is
not affected,” Sean Lee, a Singapore-based  Airbus (EAD)  spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Singapore  Air, which is based in the city-state, and
Sydney-based Qantas operate 26 of the super-jumbos between them.  The affected Qantas plane is the same one that experienced
a mid-air engine explosion in November 2010. That incident
prompted the carrier to ground its A380 fleet for 23 days.  The cracks were found while the plane was being repaired in
Singapore and they aren’t related to the engine incident,
Woodward said.  Aircraft bodies are closely monitored by maintenance crews
as fissures can be indicators of metal fatigue, a condition that
has caused crashes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  