-- Rand Falls to Two-Week Low, Yields Climb Amid Fears About Euro-Debt Crisis
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-01-05T14:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/rand-weakens-amid-concern-euro-region-s-debt-crisis-may-spread-to-hungary.html
The rand depreciated to its lowest
level in almost two weeks as stocks and commodities fell amid
concern  Europe  will struggle to contain its debt crisis. Ten-
year bond yields rose to a three-week high.  South Africa’s currency weakened as much as 1.3 percent to
8.2376, the lowest since Dec. 22. It traded 0.6 percent down at
8.1825 as of 3:10 p.m. in Johannesburg. The yield on 6.75
percent government bonds due 2021 rose five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 8.14 percent, the highest on a closing
basis since Dec. 19.  France sold 10-year bonds at an average yield of 3.29
percent, up from 3.18 percent in December, as credit ratings
companies threaten to cut the nation’s AAA rating. The yield on
Hungary’s one-year bills climbed to the highest level since
2009. Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said yesterday deeper
cuts in incomes and an agreement on international aid are the
only way for the country to avert economic collapse and a
“disorderly default.”  “News flow out of Europe remains volatile but mostly
poor,” George Glynos, an economist at Johannesburg-based ETM
Analytics, wrote in e-mailed comments today. The rand is “a
passenger in a far bigger move driven once again by developments
in the euro zone rather than anything local,” he added.  South Africa’s benchmark stock index dropped for the first
time in three days, led by commodities exporters including Anglo
American Plc and BHP Billiton Ltd. The euro, the currency of 30
percent of South Africa’s trade, fell to 11-year low against the
yen and the weakest in 15 months versus the dollar.  France ’s credit outlook was lowered by  Fitch Ratings  on
Dec. 16 on the “heightened risk of contingent liabilities”
from the escalating euro-region crisis.  Standard & Poor’s  is
reviewing the top ratings of both France and Germany.  “We expect bonds to struggle in the opening weeks of the
year,” Michael Grobler, a Cape Town-based analyst at Afrifocus
Securities, said by e-mail. Bonds may rally if the Federal
Reserve signals at its Jan. 25 meeting that it intends keeping
 interest rates  low, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  