-- Rapid Redux Sets Thoroughbred Racing Record With 22nd Straight Victory
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-01-05T05:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/rapid-redux-sets-thoroughbred-racing-record-with-22nd-straight-victory.html
Rapid Redux held off Awesome Rhythm
to log his 22nd straight victory, a record for a U.S.
thoroughbred racehorse.  The 6-year-old led from the start to outdistance four
rivals by three-quarters of a length on the opening day at the
Laurel Park racetrack in  Maryland . With J.D. Acosta aboard,
Rapid Redux covered the one mile race in one minute, 38.24
seconds to pay $2.80 as the 2-5 favorite.  “The math is unbelievable,” owner Robert Cole told
reporters yesterday after the win. “It’s tough to win this many
in a row. He’ll keep running as long as he’s healthy.”  A chestnut gelding trained by  David Wells , Rapid Redux was
unbeaten in 19 races as a 5-year-old in 2011. The mark equaled
Citation’s U.S. record for wins in a calendar year.  Rapid Redux, whose streak began on Dec. 2, 2010, broke the
record for consecutive wins in November at Mountaineer Park in
Chester,  West Virginia , with his 20th victory, surpassing
Zenyatta and Peppers Pride.  Rapid Redux will receive the Special Eclipse Award for
extraordinary service, individual achievements in, or
contributions to the sport presented by the National
Thoroughbred Racing Association, Daily Racing Form and the
National Turf Writers and Broadcasters on Jan. 16, when the
Horse of the Year will be announced.  “It’s a top award in this sport and a dream come true,”
Cole said. “Rapid Redux has shown the greatest in durability
and consistency. He’s a blue-collar horse.”  Cole also will learn today if his gelding earned the Vox
Populi Award, founded by Penny Chenery, the owner of Secretariat.
Rapid Redux is competing with Goldikova, Havre de Grace and
Uncle Mo, owned by New York businessman  Mike Repole .  Cole claimed Rapid Redux at Penn National for $6,250 on Oct.
13, 2010. The horse raced at seven different tracks during his
streak and won at distances from five furlongs to 1 1/8 miles.
He has earned $266,074.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  