-- Treasuries Advance as Europe’s Debt Crisis Boosts Demand for Safe Assets
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2012-01-05T12:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/treasuries-snap-two-day-loss-on-hungarian-forint-slide-papademos-warning.html
Treasury 30-year bonds rose for the
first time in three days as an increase in borrowing costs in
 France  and Hungary added to concern the region’s debt crisis is
spreading, boosting demand for the safest securities.  Longer-maturity  bonds (USGG30YR)  led gains as European stocks and the
euro declined and the region’s bailout fund increased the
additional yield it offers over the benchmark rate to sell
three-year notes.  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest
bond fund, advised investors to buy Treasuries as developed
economies fail to reduce their debt levels and the risk from
 Europe ’s debt crisis intensifies.  “Investors are fretting about the euro-land sovereign debt
crisis again,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist
in Edinburgh at RIA Capital Markets Ltd., a brokerage.
“Equities are drifting lower and you’re seeing a move away from
risky assets into core bonds and 10-year Treasuries. Yields are
still below the key 2 percent psychological level.”  The 30-year  yield (USGG10YR)  fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 3.02 percent at 7:24 a.m. in  New York , according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent note maturing in
November 2041 rose 9/32, or $2.81 per $1,000 face amount, to 102
4/32. The 10-year yield dropped one basis point to 1.96 percent.  While 10-year yields have climbed from a record-low 1.67
percent reached on Sept. 23, demand for the safest assets helped
Treasuries due in 10 years or more return 28 percent in the past
12 months, the most among 144 government-bond indexes compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies after accounting for currency changes.  Gross’s Advice  Gross, the founder of Pacific Investment Management Co. and
manager of its $244 billion Total Return Bond Fund, recommended
investors buy long-term inflation-indexed  U.S. debt , high-
quality corporate bonds, senior bank debt and municipal
securities. He made the remarks yesterday in his monthly
investment outlook published on the  Newport Beach , California-
based company’s website.  France sold 7.96 billion euros ($10.2 billion) of debt as
borrowing costs rose in its first auction of the year as credit-
rating companies threaten to cut its AAA ranking. The European
Financial Stability Facility is selling 3 billion euros of
February 2015 notes to yield 40 basis points more than the
benchmark swap rate, a banker involved in the deal said. That
compares with the six basis-point spread it paid to sell 5
billion euros of July 2016 bonds in January 2011.  Hungarian Sale  Hungary  raised less than planned at a bill auction as
yields soared on concern the  International Monetary Fund  and
European Union won’t resume aid talks. They ended discussions
last month as the government prepared legislation that
threatened to undermine the independence of the central bank.  The euro dropped as low as 98.58 yen, the weakest since
December 2000. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 0.8 percent.  U.S. policy makers will keep borrowing costs near zero into
2014 to support the economy amid rising risks from Europe, a Fed
survey of bond dealers shows.  The central bank is replacing $400 billion of shorter-
maturity Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to cap
borrowing costs and foster economic growth, in a plan it
announced in September. The Fed is scheduled to sell as much as
$1.5 billion of Treasury Inflation Protected Securities due from
April 2012 to April 2014 today as part of the program, according
to the New York Fed’s  website .  Fed’s Pledge  The Fed’s pledge to keep down borrowing costs at least
through mid-2013 makes securities maturing in one to three years
the most attractive, according to  Michael Markovic , a senior
fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich.  With economic data showing signs of stronger growth,
“yields can easily go higher, so if you are exposed to longer
maturities you can suffer,” he said. “You’re not losing if the
crisis in Europe continues, and if the recovery continues, you
also will not lose money.”  The difference in yield, or  spread (USYC2Y10) , between two-year and
10-year notes was 170 basis points today. It fell as low as 147
basis points on Oct. 4, from last year’s high of 291 basis
points on Feb. 9. The 10-year average is 157 basis points.  Reports today are forecast to show claims for jobless
benefits fell while services industries expanded, damping demand
for the safest assets.  The 10-year Treasury yield has climbed eight basis points
this year amid signs the U.S. economic recovery is gathering
momentum. Treasuries fell yesterday after a government report
showed factory orders increased in November by the most in four
months, adding to evidence manufacturing is improving from  India 
to the U.K. entering 2012.  Service Industries   The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of non-
manufacturing industries, which account for about 90 percent of
the economy, rose to 53 from 52 in November, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before today’s data. Initial
jobless claims fell to 375,000 last week from 381,000 in the
previous period, a separate survey showed.  “We’re seeing a series of better U.S. data,” said Viola Stork, a fixed-income strategist at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-
Thueringen in  Frankfurt . “That should help push the yield up.”  The Treasury plans to announce today the amounts of three
auctions of coupon-bearing securities set for next week.  The U.S. will sell $32 billion of three-year notes on Jan.
10, $21 billion of 10-year securities the following day, and $13
billion of 30-year bonds on Jan. 12, according to Wrightson ICAP
LLC, an economic advisory company in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey ,
that specializes in  government finance . The amounts would be the
same as the previous auctions in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  