-- Reinsurance Pricing Subdued Even After 2011’s Disaster Record
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-01-05T14:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/reinsurance-pricing-subdued-even-after-2011-s-disaster-record.html
Reinsurance brokers say the most
expensive year for natural disasters didn’t drive coverage
prices higher across the industry when policies were renewed on
Jan. 1.  Reinsurers’ strong capital base meant only insurance
policies covering nations the most affected by catastrophes,
such as  Japan ,  Thailand  and  New Zealand , faced significant
increases, James Vickers of Willis Group Holdings Plc said.  Rates in many other lines of business “have hardly moved
at all,” even as reinsurance companies lost money on their
underwriting, Vickers, chairman of Willis Re’s international and
specialty reinsurance unit, said by phone. “There is not a
blanket increase. On accounts where clients had losses, prices
have gone up considerably more than 10 percent.”  Last year was the priciest 12 months of natural disasters
on record for reinsurers and the primary insurers whose risks
they help bear, Munich Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer, said
on Jan. 4. Earthquakes in Japan and New Zealand and Australian
and Thai floods helped cost the industry about $105 billion,
surpassing the previous catastrophe record of $101 billion in
2005, when reinsurers were forced to raise capital in the wake
of  Hurricane Katrina .  Reinsurers covered about half of those insured losses,
according to  Willis (WSH) , the world’s third-biggest reinsurance
broker. Vickers estimated that the industry’s capital at the end
of the third quarter was at the same level as the start of 2011,
meaning more reinsurers were healthy enough to compete for
business on price.  ‘Disappointing Season’  “It was a disappointing renewal season” for reinsurers
hoping to charge more, David Watson, head of XL Group Plc’s
European division, said on a Jan. 3 conference call hosted by
Keefe Bruyette & Woods Ltd. “There was really no significant
upward movement in trading conditions.”  About two-thirds of property-and-casualty reinsurance
contracts of companies such as Munich Re, Swiss Re and  Hannover
Re (HNR1)  are typically up for renewal in January. The remainder is
renewed in April and July, with a focus on the Asia-Pacific
region and the U.S.  Rates for casualty policies, which pay out if individuals
and companies are liable to pay compensation, were generally the
same as a year ago, while the price of airline insurance dropped
about 7 percent, Watson said.  Premiums for international catastrophe policies increased
about 2.7 percent in  Europe ’s main insurance markets of  Germany ,
 France ,  Belgium , the Netherlands, Luxembourg and  Scandinavia ,
Watson said. That’s less than the 3 percent inflation rate in
the euro region.  Peak Catastrophe Areas  JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts including Matthew Heimermann
also estimate that casualty prices were little changed from a
year earlier, according to a Jan. 2 note to investors. Property
insurance increases were closer to 10 percent, they said.  Only catastrophe-exposed contracts and contracts affected
by losses saw “significant improvements to rates,” Brian Boornazian, head of reinsurance at Bermuda-based  Aspen Insurance
Holding Ltd. (AHL) , said during a Jan. 3 conference call hosted by
Evercore Partners Inc. “More change is needed to reach rate
levels that are adequate for exposures, and other external facts
that affect our industry’s profitability.”  The so-called peak areas for catastrophe insurers are U.S.
earthquake and hurricane coverage and European windstorms. While
such events didn’t much hurt reinsurers in 2011, the industry
was surprised by the magnitude of losses elsewhere, such as the
Thai floods, according to Dominic Christian, co-chief executive
officer of Aon Benfield Group Ltd., the world’s biggest
reinsurance broker.  ‘Unbelievable’ Thai Losses  “If there are losses in non-peak zones, it makes you
wonder if you are applying the right diversification features,”
Christian said in a phone interview from London.  Munich Re  estimates losses from the Thai floods, which
inundated factories and disrupted Japanese companies’ local
supply chains, cost $10 billion. While prices in affected areas
of  Asia  such as Thailand have increased at least 50 percent,
they haven’t risen in other countries, according to XL’s Watson.  “In Thailand, the losses are just unbelievable,” he said.
“What surprises me is that although reinsurers have addressed
exposure in Thailand, they still provide uncapped pro-rata
treaties providing net cat coverage elsewhere in the world,”
Watson said, referring to policies that provide unlimited
coverage against natural catastrophes.  Globally, policies covering disasters in multiple regions
rose a minimum of about 2 percent, Nick Frankland, CEO of the
European operations of the reinsurance brokerage of  Marsh &
McLennan Cos. (MMC) , said during the KBW conference call.  Capital Concern  Willis Re says catastrophe reinsurance prices are jumping
from 80 percent to 150 percent in New Zealand, where the Feb. 22
earthquake is estimated to have cost $13 billion, according to
Munich Re. In  Australia , catastrophe premiums have risen 40
percent to 75 percent, Willis says.  The earthquake in Japan on March 11 and the ensuing tsunami
caused insured losses of as much as $40 billion, according to
Munich Re. Severe storms in the U.S. in April cost about $7.3
billion, while  Hurricane Irene  is estimated to cost $7 billion.  Willis’s Vickers said broad-based price increases are only
likely if the sovereign-debt crisis worsens and erodes capital.
In 2008, writedowns on equity investments and other losses
related to the financial crisis prompted reinsurers to increase
prices in the January 2009 renewal season. Rates declined again
in the following two years, mostly because of an absence of
major natural catastrophes.  “Capital ultimately is what drives pricing,” Vickers
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 