-- Stores Pay Price for Holiday Deals
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-01-06T14:44:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/retailers-in-u-s-post-mixed-december-sales-results-as-best-deals-prevail.html
Retailers are starting to pay the
price for a discounting binge that was deeper and longer than
ever -- especially stores that cater to middle-income shoppers.  Look no farther than  American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO)  The
clothier’s promotions helped boost sales in the past two months
by 15 percent to $887 million. The teen retailer was forced to
reduce its fourth-quarter profit forecast yesterday.  Ditto for  Target Corp. (TGT) , J.C. Penney Co. and Kohl’s Corp.,
which lowered their own fourth-quarter profit forecasts after
pouring on the discounts.  “The retailers that cater to the middle class are
struggling,” Alison Paul, retail sector leader at Deloitte
Touche LLP in  Chicago , said in an interview. “Some of them
showed great volume numbers, but the proof is in the profit.”  Investors noticed. All four stocks sank yesterday in New
York trading, with American Eagle dropping 11 percent for the
biggest decline since May 26, 2010, and Target sliding the most
in two months. American Eagle fell 0.2 percent to $13.49 at 9:34
a.m. today, while Target gained 0.1 percent to $48.59 and J.C.
Penney rose 1 percent to $34.11. Kohl’s dropped 0.9 percent to
$46.10.  Meanwhile, stores that cater to lower-income shoppers are
getting a boost as middle-class consumers trade down.  Discounters  Ross Stores Inc. (ROST) , which is based in Pleasanton,
 California , and Framingham, Massachusetts-based TJX Cos. snagged
shoppers seeking discounts on apparel, home goods and
accessories.  Ross Gains  Ross’s same-store sales gained 9 percent in December,
surpassing the average estimate of 4 percent growth, according
to Retail Metrics Inc., which is based in Swampscott,
 Massachusetts . Sales at TJX increased 8 percent, beating the 2.4
percent estimate.  Americans are spending cautiously amid slow wage growth,
limited job gains and depressed real estate values. U.S. service
industries expanded less than forecast in December, indicating
improvement in the economy will be uneven, according to the
Tempe, Arizona-based Institute for Supply Management.  Personal spending climbed 0.1 percent last month, the
Commerce Department reported Dec. 23. That was less than the
median 0.3 percent gain projected by a survey of 79 Bloomberg
economists.  One concern is the relatively paltry buying power of young
adults, normally prodigious spenders in good times, said  Pam Danziger , president at researcher Unity Marketing Inc.  “Middle-of-the-road retailers will continue to struggle to
draw consumers in,” Danziger said. “They’re going to be
hampered going forward because 20- and 30-somethings don’t have
the money to spend.”  Profit Forecast  American Eagle’s fourth-quarter profit may top out at 35
cents a share, down from both last year’s result and a previous
forecast of as much as 44 cents, the Pittsburgh-based company
said yesterday in a statement.  While American Eagle reported that same-store sales gained
12 percent in November and December, the retailer’s “aggressive
promotional stance” depressed margins, the company said in a
statement.  “For some companies, the profit cut might be worth it
because they gained new customers or market share,” said
 Marshal Cohen , chief industry analyst at NPD Group in  Port
Washington , New York. “But even this benefit is questionable
because people just don’t have more money to spend right now.”  J.C. Penney (JCP)  Forecast  J.C. Penney, which is based in Plano,  Texas , cut its profit
forecast to as low as 65 cents, excluding some items, from a
projection in November of $1.15. Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson , who took over in November after running Apple Inc.’s
retail operations, is reviewing pricing and products to
rejuvenate sales.  Target, which used such ploys as an “almost last minute
sale” on Dec. 8 and 50 percent off the day after Christmas,
expects to now earn as little as $1.35 a share. The average
estimate of 21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was $1.48.
Comparable-store sales rose 1.6 percent last month at the
Minneapolis-based chain, missing analysts’ projections for a
gain of 3.3 percent.  Department store  Kohl’s (KSS) , based in  Menomonee Falls ,
 Wisconsin , cut its fourth-quarter profit forecast to as much as
$1.73. Sales lagged as unseasonably warm weather led to sluggish
sales in coats, gloves and jackets, Kevin Mansell, CEO, said in
a statement.  Macy’s Inc. (M)  proved to be one of the few mid-tier retailers
to do well as December sales beat estimates and it raised its
profit forecast. The second-largest U.S. department store chain
is skilled at stocking regional stores with appealing
merchandise, said  Michael Niemira , chief economist at the New
York-based International Council of Shopping Centers.  Loyal Customers  “They’re the exception, because customers identify with
Macy’s, and are still loyal in spite of the environment,”
Niemira said in a telephone interview.  While several retailers that cater to the middle class had
to draw shoppers with more discounting than expected, luxury
chains continued to increase sales past estimates.  December sales at luxury department store chains  Saks Inc. (SKS) 
and  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  beat estimates by researcher Retail Metrics.
Sales at Saks, based in New York, gained 5.8 percent, compared
with an estimate of 5.5 percent growth. Nordstrom sales were up
8.7 percent, surpassing the estimated 4.7 percent gain.  “Luxury consumers are the heavy lifters in the economy, so
it makes sense that businesses like Nordstrom and Saks will
benefit from their excess spending,” said Unity’s Danziger, who
is based in Stevens,  Pennsylvania .  Black Friday  For the rest of the industry, luring shoppers by almost any
means was the norm. Consumers started seeing Black Friday deals
just after Halloween, a month before the actual day. Several
chains, including Kohl’s, opened at midnight on Thanksgiving for
the first time.  When shopping events passed, a few chains repeated them.
Cyber Monday came twice this year at J.C. Penney and  Sears
Holdings  -- once on the day after Thanksgiving weekend and again
a week later. These ploys are expected to help holiday sales in
stores increase 3.8 percent, compared with a 5.2 percent advance
last year, according to the Washington-based  National Retail
Federation .  “The middle class economy did not fall into place, and
consequently, the middle-tier retailers didn’t either,” Niemira
said. “On the surface sales were stronger, but then you ask the
other questions and the picture isn’t great.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ashley Lutz in  New York  at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  