-- Retail Sales in Germany Unexpectedly Fell For Second Month in November
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-01-05T07:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/retail-sales-in-germany-unexpectedly-fell-for-second-month-in-november.html
German  retail sales (GRIORTMM)  unexpectedly fell
for a second month in November as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
weighed on the outlook for economic growth.  Sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings,
decreased 0.9 percent from October, when they fell a revised 0.2
percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists forecast a gain of 0.2 percent, the median of 13
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey (GRFRIAMM)  showed.  Sales (GRFRINYY)  rose 0.8
percent from a year ago. The statistics office said retail sales
were probably between 1.1 percent and 1.3 percent higher in 2011
than in 2010, according to preliminary estimates.  Europe’s debt crisis has clouded the economic outlook for
2012, with the Bundesbank cutting its growth forecast last month
to 0.6 percent from 1.8 percent. Still, unemployment at a two-
decade low is helping to support  consumer confidence , and GfK SE
said in December its index of household sentiment will remain at
a six-month high this month.  “The data goes against recent trends in leading indicators
and fundamental data,” said  Christian Schulz , an economist at
Berenberg Bank in  London . “German households are traditionally
cautious, preventing any major consumption boom, but an
improvement should be on the cards. Monthly retail sales data is
volatile and often subject to significant revisions.”  GfK said on Dec. 20 its gauge of economic optimism rose to
minus 0.9 in December from minus 7.2 in November, and an index
of income expectations increased to 34 from 31.1. While a
measure of consumers’ willingness to spend dropped, GfK said it
is “still at a comparatively high level.”  Metro AG (MEO) , the nation’s biggest retailer, on Dec. 6 cut its
2011 sales and profit forecast, blaming “the increasingly
noticeable effect” of Europe’s debt crisis.  “Private consumption will have a stabilizing effect on the
economy as it cools in 2012,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist
at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “With the positive situation in
the labor market, people’s incomes are rising.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Black  in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simone Meier at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  