-- Disclosure Rules May Crimp Fees on Retirement Funds
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-01-05T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/retirement-fund-fees-may-get-squeezed-by-401-k-disclosure-rules.html
When Marc Spirn took a close look at
retirement-plan costs at his Philadelphia-based medical office,
they were so high he helped the business change 401(k) providers
and save about $30,000 a year.  “All of the partners in our practice were surprised with
how much we were spending in revenue-sharing fees,” said Spirn,
a physician who’s a retina specialist at Mid Atlantic Retina.
“It wasn’t broken down well.”  U.S. Department of Labor rules requiring detailed
disclosure of 401(k) expenses and revenue sharing are scheduled
to take effect this year, making it easier for companies and
their employees to see what they’re being charged. They may spur
 small employers  and their workers, who generally pay higher fees
for their plans than larger companies, to shop for better deals,
and put pressure on providers such as mutual-fund firms and
insurers to cut costs.  Some companies that offer 401(k) investment funds share fee
revenue with firms that provide recordkeeping or brokers that
sell  retirement plans . The amount flowing between funds and
their service partners may be more than $5 billion annually,
according to BrightScope Inc., a San Diego-based firm that
tracks 401(k) data. The Labor Department rules, which may still
change, will give employers details on those transactions.  Americans held about  $2.9 trillion  in 401(k) accounts as of
Sept. 30, according to the  Investment Company Institute . Workers
pay an average of 91 percent of the costs associated with
401(k)-type plans, according to a November  report  by Deloitte
LLP for ICI, the Washington-based trade group for the mutual-
fund industry. The median fee was 0.78 percent of assets, or
about $248 per participant, the 2011 study said.  Lack of Knowledge  Spirn, 36, said his  medical practice  has about 200
employees and about $8 million in 401(k) assets. By uncovering
hidden charges and switching providers, Spirn said they were
able to reduce revenue-sharing payments by an average of 44
basis points of fund assets. The partners also added more
passively managed funds with lower expenses to the investment
choices, he said. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Most plan participants don’t realize they are absorbing the
costs. About 71 percent of 401(k) savers said they thought they
didn’t pay any fees and 6 percent said they weren’t sure,
according to a  survey  released in March by  AARP , the Washington-
based group of more than 37 million members that lobbies for the
interests of Americans age 50 or older.  Detective Work  “I have no idea what the fees are,” said Alice Dickstein,
who saves through a 401(k) account run by  Hartford Financial
Services Group Inc. (HIG)  in  Connecticut . Dickstein is an  executive
director  at a publishing company in New York and is thinking of
retiring. She declined to give her age.  Dickstein said a friend, Walter Kroczak, helps her track
the  investments  because she doesn’t have the time or interest to
regularly review fees and statements.  “Companies that manage these things have to be paid
something, but they don’t spell it out,” said Kroczak, 66, an
adjunct English professor at Westchester Community College in
Valhalla, New York. “It’s hard to find out what they’re getting
and who it’s coming from.”  Employers are set to receive detailed disclosure on fees
for  investment management , custody and administration by April,
including revenue-sharing information, according to the Labor
Department.  Workers  are due to receive additional disclosures
later in the year, with specific dates depending on a plan’s
fiscal year.  Final Rule  The Labor Department hasn’t issued final rules on
disclosures to employers. The completed version could specify a
format service providers must use in disclosures to employers,
clarify how electronic disclosures may be used or change the
effective date of the regulations, according to W.  Mark Smith , a
partner with Sutherland Asbill & Brennan LLP in  Washington .  Some trade groups, including the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association, which represents securities
firms, banks and asset managers, and the American Society of
Pension Professionals & Actuaries, have  asked  the Labor
Department to push back the applicability dates of the
regulations. Both groups submitted  letters  to the department in
December saying more time will be needed to build any necessary
infrastructure once a final rule is issued.  “Our new rules on fee disclosures, that will come into
force in 2012, are meant to ensure that workers as well as
employers and other plan sponsors get disclosures about
retirement-plan fees and investment expenses that are clearer
and easier to understand,” Assistant Secretary of Labor Phyllis Borzi said in an e-mail yesterday.  Informed Choices  The rules will generally require employers to show
employees the fees on each investment option per  $1,000 
invested, such as $10 for a fund with an expense ratio of 1
percent, so they can make comparisons and more informed choices,
according to the Labor Department. Workers also will receive
statements showing administrative costs charged to their
individual accounts.  While employees will be told if their plan engages in
revenue sharing, they generally won’t receive details on the
amounts paid or who it goes to, Smith said. Employers will see
details on the arrangements, he said.  About 93 percent of firms offering investments to 401(k)-
type plans pay revenue-sharing fees ranging from 10 basis points
to 50 basis points to recordkeepers, according to Boston-based
research firm Cerulli Associates. The practice can create
conflicts of interest, according to a 2011  report  by the
Government Accountability Office. It may influence firms or
individuals that sell the plans to steer employers toward
investments with higher payments even if there are other choices
with better performance or lower costs, said the GAO.  Impact on Accounts  “If the Department of Labor really wanted to make a
difference, they should have attacked it by requiring the
provider to give the participant and the employer the exact cost
for all the different expenses,” said Tom Gonnella, senior vice
president of corporate development at Denver-based Lincoln Trust
Co., which provides 401(k) administrative services. “It’s not
going to move the needle like it needs to for participants.”  Revenue sharing could reduce an employee’s savings by more
than $30,000 over 25 years. Assuming a starting balance of
$50,000 with annual contributions of $5,000, a participant
earning 6 percent and paying 60 basis points in annual fees
could accumulate about $438,429. That compares with about
$407,953 for a saver who paid 1 percent in annual expenses,
including 40 basis points in revenue-sharing charges.  The disclosure rules may result in pressure to lower fees
as plan sponsors look at costs, said  Jimmy Bhullar , an equity
analyst at New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  who covers
insurers that provide 401(k) plans. More people in the plans may
also consider passively managed funds, he said.  ‘Wake-Up Moment’  The biggest changes may come at small companies that see
expenses broken down for the first time, said Brian Graff, chief
executive officer of Arlington, Virginia-based ASPPA, the
pension-professionals group.  “It’s going to be a wake-up moment,” particularly for
employers that haven’t been diligent about negotiating lower
fees as account balances have increased over time, said  David Wray , president of Plan Sponsor Council of America in  Chicago , a
nonprofit that represents employers with 401(k)s.  Companies with fewer employees and lower average 401(k)
balances generally pay higher fees, as a percentage of assets,
than larger ones, according to the study by Deloitte for ICI.
The median cost of plans with less than $1 million in assets was
1.41 percent, compared with 0.38 percent for those with more
than $1 billion, the report said.  Fidelity, Vanguard  Some mutual-fund companies also may pay a finder’s fee to
brokers or other parties for bringing in new plan assets. In the
new disclosure format, those payments generally will be
disclosed to employers and won’t be detailed to savers, said
Marcia Wagner, managing director of the Boston-based Wagner Law
Group.  Fidelity Investments  may pay a one-time finder’s fee of as
much as 1 percent of assets invested in certain Fidelity Advisor
mutual-fund share classes to brokers who sell employers a 401(k)
that offers the funds, according to prospectuses. Fidelity
doesn’t pay the fees with plan assets, said Stephen Austin, a
spokesman for the Boston-based firm, which is the largest 401(k)
provider, with almost 11.7 million participants.  Not all plans that use Fidelity work with a broker and the
practice is more common among smaller plans, said  Beth McHugh ,
vice president of market insights for the company.  “Vanguard has already been providing much of the necessary
information under the new regulations, so we see these changes
as more of an evolution than a fundamental shift,” said  Linda Wolohan , spokeswoman for  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based
Vanguard Group Inc. Vanguard is the third-largest recordkeeper
of 401(k) plans, Cerulli data show.  Fee Reductions  Large companies that sponsor 401(k) plans have become more
aware and proactive on fees in recent years, said Pamela Hess,
director of retirement research for Aon Hewitt. The firm is the
second-largest recordkeeper of 401(k) accounts, according to
Cerulli, and is a unit of Chicago-based  Aon Corp. (AON)   Some plans that have shopped around in the last year have
been able to negotiate fee cuts of more than 50 percent, said
Donald Stone, managing partner of Chicago-based Plan Sponsor
Advisors, a consultant to employers offering retirement plans.  “In every single case we’ve been able to negotiate
substantial reductions,” he said.  Spirn, the physician, said the partners in his practice
wanted to lower costs so they could have more saved at
retirement.  “If we can reduce the fees the money will grow faster and
more efficiently,” he said. “We’re hoping it makes a big
difference.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net 
Margaret Collins in  New York  
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 