-- Rio Declares Force Majeure on Two Canada Aluminum Smelters
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-01-05T05:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/rio-declares-force-majeure-on-two-aluminum-smelters-in-canada.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s third-
biggest mining company, declared force majeure on shipments from
two aluminum smelters in eastern Canada because of a technical
glitch and a labor dispute.  Production capacity at the  Shawinigan plant  in Quebec was
reduced by 50 percent after two of four pot-lines went off-line
because of a circuit-breaker failure, the London-based company
said yesterday. Output was cut to one-third of capacity at its
Alma smelter, also in Quebec, as  Rio Tinto  Alcan locked out 755
workers on Jan. 1 after contract talks broke down in December.  “We’ve declared force majeure at Rio Tinto Alcan’s
Shawinigan plant and Alma smelter,”  David Luff , a company
spokesman, said today by phone from  Melbourne . Force majeure is
a legal clause that allows companies to miss deliveries because
of circumstances beyond their control.  The Alma smelter has annual capacity of 438,000 metric tons
and the Shawinigan plant 100,000 tons. Rio said in October that
its global production target for the metal for 2011 was 3.9
million tons.  “Rio Tinto Alcan will monitor the situation and keep
customers informed of any potential impact to supplies and
delivery schedules,” Luff said.  The shares closed 0.5 percent lower at A$62.85 in Sydney,
while the benchmark index fell 1.1 percent.  Rio Tinto relies on aluminum for almost 25 percent of its
annual sales, according to  data (RIO)  compiled by Bloomberg. The metal
producer doesn’t have a date for when output at the Shawinigan
plant, scheduled to close in 2015, will be restored, Bryan
Tucker, a company spokesman, said by telephone from  Montreal 
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  