-- MTS’s Biggest Gain in a Month Widens Premium: Russia Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-01-06T03:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/mts-s-biggest-gain-in-a-month-widens-premium-russia-overnight.html
OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT)  rose the most
in a month and  Russia ’s stock  futures (VEA)  gained as signs of a
stronger U.S. job market stoked optimism about global growth and
prompted investment in the cheapest major emerging market.  American depositary receipts of Mobile Telesystems, known
as MTS, advanced 6.2 percent to create the largest  premium (.MBTARB)  with
the company’s Moscow  shares (MTSI)  since December 2010. The advance
limited losses on the  Bloomberg Russia-US 14 Index (RUS14BN)  of Russian
companies traded in New York, which slid 0.3 percent to 93.42.
 RTS index (RTSI$)  futures expiring in March added 0.5 percent yesterday.  Consumer confidence  in the U.S. rose last week to a five-
month high and the pace of firings declined, showing that an
improving job market is supporting the world’s largest economy.
Russia’s  Micex (INDEXCF)  Index trades at 5.4 times analysts’ earnings
estimates for member companies, the lowest among the so-called
BRIC nations, which include India,  Brazil  and  China .  “We’re in a new year, so fund managers have put risk back
on,” Arjun Jayaraman, who manages $400 million in emerging-
market equities at Causeway Capital Management in  Los Angeles ,
said in a phone interview. “Russian stocks are so cheap, and
assuming  Europe  doesn’t do very badly over the next year, many
of them are due for a rebound.”  The Micex lost 17 percent in 2011 as the debt crisis in
Europe, Russia’s largest trading partner, buffeted growth.  Jayaraman said Causeway bought shares of OAO Lukoil,
Russia’s largest non-state oil producer, and  OAO Gazprom (OGZPY) , the
world’s biggest natural gas exporter, in the past two months.
Both stocks fell yesterday in New York as crude declined after
U.S. inventories increased and borrowing costs in  France  rose,
stoking concern Europe will struggle to contain the debt crisis.  U.S. Premium  United Co. Rusal (486) , the world’s largest aluminum producer,
dropped 1.6 percent to HK$4.80 in Hong Kong trading as of 11:13
a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 1 percent
before reports today that are expected to show European retail
sales fell in November and German factory orders declined,
according to the median forecasts in Bloomberg surveys of
economists.  MTS rose the most since Nov. 30 in  New York  to $15.86 after
 shares (MTSI)  in Moscow gained 1.1 percent to 189.03 rubles, or $5.91.
MTS’s ADRs, which represent two ordinary shares, closed at a
$4.04 premium to the mobile carrier’s Moscow stock.  The premium for the ADRs is due to a lack of trading in the
Russian shares, which makes them less attractive for investors,
Ilya Kravets, a research analyst ED Capital in New York, which
manages almost $100 million in assets, said in an interview.  ‘Liquidity Issue’  “It’s a liquidity issue,” he said. “You don’t get the
volumes in Moscow that you get in the U.S., so Moscow investors
in a stock like MTS get a liquidity discount.”  Rival mobile-phone carrier  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  also gained in
New York yesterday, adding 4.6 percent to $10.01 after Reuters
reported that Algeria’s Post and Telecommunications Minister
Moussa Benhamadi signaled progress in the government’s talks
with the company over its local unit.  The company didn’t respond to an e-mail and phone call from
Bloomberg News seeking comment on a national holiday.  MTS, which trades at 10.6 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, and VimpelCom, at a ratio of 9 times, are among the
 cheapest (VIP)  cellular-phone operators in Europe, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  MTS operates in Russia and former Soviet states including
Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan and Armenia. The company’s
subscriber base rose less than 0.1 percent in November from
October to 105.3 million, according to a Dec. 30 data report by
Advanced Communications & Media in Moscow.  Oil Prices  “The Russian mobiles have among the strongest earnings
outlooks for this year,” said Zoltan Palfi, a London-based
analyst at Credit Suisse AG, who has an “outperform” rating on
Vimpelcom and MTS. “Both Russian mobile stocks are cheap
relative to their own history.”  Oil for February delivery declined 1.4 percent to settle at
$101.81 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , dragging
Lukoil down 0.8 percent to $54.15 in New York. Oil futures
dropped 0.4 percent today.  Brent oil for January settlement slipped 0.8 percent to
$112.74 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange
while Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend, lost 1 percent
to $110.36.  Gazprom, the largest weighted stock on the Bloomberg
Russia-US 14 Index, fell the most in a week, declining 0.6
percent to $11.11.  Volatility Index  The  RTS Index (RTSI$)  in Moscow declined 1.3 percent yesterday to
1,415.48 while the 30-stock Micex Index lost 0.9 percent to
1,434.91. The  RTS Volatility Index (RTSVX) , which measures expected
swings in the index futures, rose 0.7 percent to 41.47 points.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, fell for the first time in three days,
dropping 1.8 percent to $27.18.  The Micex has lost 15 percent in 2011, compared to an 18
percent slide for Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  index, which trades at 9.2
times estimated earnings, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  trades at 8.7 times
estimated earnings, and the  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  has a
ratio of 13.8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  