-- Samsung Quarterly Profit Rises as Galaxy Phones Lure Consumers From Apple
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-01-06T11:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/samsung-profit-beat-estimates-as-galaxy-phones-lure-consumers-from-apple.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ,  Asia ’s
largest consumer-electronics company, reported a record
quarterly profit on surging sales of Galaxy phones and a one-
time gain from selling its hard-disk drive business.  Operating  profit (005930)  increased 73 percent to 5.2 trillion won
($4.5 billion) in the three months that ended in December, the
Suwon, South Korea-based company said in a statement today. That
beat the 4.6 trillion-won average of 29 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 12 percent to 47 trillion won.  Mobile-phone sales surpassed a record 300 million units
last year as Galaxy smartphones helped win consumers amid
competition with Apple Inc.’s iPhone. Samsung, which sold its
hard-disk drive business to Seagate Technology Plc, is
introducing more mobile devices to offset slumping profits at
the chip and flat-screen panel businesses.  “The mobile business is generating a huge chunk of profit
now,”  James Song , a Seoul-based analyst at Daewoo Securities
Co., said by telephone. “It may be getting harder for Apple to
catch up because they only have a limited number of models.”  Samsung shares fell 1.4 percent to 1,040,000 won at the 3
p.m. close of trading in Seoul, while the benchmark Kospi index
declined 1.1 percent. The stock gained 11 percent in 2011.  Seagate Deal  While smartphone sales helped propel Samsung’s revenue to a
record last year, fourth-quarter operating profit was inflated
by proceeds from the Seagate deal,  James Chung , a Seoul-based
spokesman for the Suwon, South Korea-based company, said by
telephone after the announcement.  Samsung said in April it agreed to sell its mechanical-
drive business to Dublin-based Seagate for $1.38 billion in cash
and stock. Samsung said last month the sale was completed.  Operating profit may be 200 billion won higher or lower
than today’s preliminary estimate when audited results are
announced later this month, Samsung said. The company didn’t
provide net income figures or a breakdown of divisional earnings.  Samsung’s full-year profit sales rose 6.5 percent to a
record 164.7 trillion won, while operating profit declined 6.7
percent to 16.2 trillion won.  Operating profit at the telecommunications unit jumped 81
percent to 2.6 trillion won, according to the median of six
analyst estimates surveyed by Bloomberg News. Sales at the
world’s second-largest handset vendor may have gained 36 percent
to 16.45 trillion won.  Galaxy Sales  Samsung overtook Apple in the third quarter to become the
world’s largest smartphone seller after shipping 27.8 million
units, market researcher  Strategy Analytics  said in October.
Samsung’s smartphone sales more than tripled during the three-
month period from a year ago, and its market share more than
doubled, it said.  Samsung probably sold about 32 million smartphones in the
fourth quarter, according to an estimate from Dongbu Securities
Co., helped by the Galaxy range of devices. Galaxy S II sales,
which began in May, surpassed 10 million units quicker than any
other Samsung mobile device, the company said in a December
statement, without providing a total sales figure for the model.  “They’ll probably roll out more low-end smartphones this
year after focusing on high-end models last year,” said Kim Hyung Sik, a Seoul-based analyst at Taurus Investment Securities
Co. “By the end of the year, they’ll climb to the top in
overall handsets.”  Chip Prices  Samsung sold more than 300 million handsets in 2011,
according to the statement.  In October, Samsung and software partner  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
unveiled the Galaxy Nexus, powered by the latest Android
operating system that features facial-recognition functions. A
month earlier, Samsung introduced the Galaxy Note equipped with
a 5.3-inch screen and a stylus.  Profit at the semiconductor division probably fell 11
percent to 1.6 trillion won on sales of 9.65 trillion won,
according to the survey.  The price of the benchmark  DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM (DRAM84)  slumped by
51 percent last year amid slowing personal-computer sales,
according to data from Taipei-based Dramexchange Technology Inc.,
operator of Asia’s largest spot market for semiconductors. Chip
prices have fallen to as low as a ball of rice, according to
Tokyo-based Elpida Memory Inc.  DRAM prices probably will remain at current levels through
the first half of this year, with PC demand not picking up
quickly, Shin Hyun Joon, a Seoul-based analyst at Dongbu
Securities, said in a Dec. 21 report.  TV Shipments  Samsung is faring better than its rivals because of its
diversification into specialty chips for mobile devices, Kim
said. Shipments of smartphone DRAM probably more than doubled
last year from 2010, according to a forecast by researcher IHS
iSuppli in October.  Samsung’s display division likely had an operating profit
of 6.5 billion won, compared with 100 billion won a year earlier,
according to the survey. Sales probably rose to 7.95 trillion
won from 7.2 trillion won.  The average selling price of Samsung’s flat-screen panels
dropped 21 percent in 2011 amid stagnating TV sales, according
to an estimate from Dongbu Securities.  Global LCD TV shipments probably were 206 million units
last year, falling short of an earlier projection of 211 million
units,  according to  research company DisplaySearch.  Samsung bought Sony Corp.’s stake in their LCD-making
venture, which was formed in 2004, for 1.08 trillion won in cash,
the South Korean company said in December. Sony predicted an
eighth consecutive year of losses from TVs.  Samsung’s TV-making unit likely had an operating profit of
170.5 billion won, compared with a loss of 170 billion won a
year ago, helped by high-end models featuring 3-D functionality
and Web-based services, according to the survey. Sales are
estimated to have risen to 16.1 trillion won from 15.97 trillion
won.  Samsung almost met its annual target to sell 45 million
flat-screen TVs, Yoon Boo Keun, head of the consumer-electronics
business, said in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  