-- Santorum Becomes Millionaire in Six Years After U.S. Senate Loss
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-01-05T05:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/santorum-becomes-millionaire-in-six-years-after-losing-u-s-senate-seat.html
Former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  describes himself on the campaign trail as a frugal man
of faith and limited means.  “I come from a little different background than most
Republicans,” he said at a Jan. 2 town-hall meeting in Newton,
 Iowa , where he recalled playing as a child outside the coal
mines in which his grandfather toiled.  Yet Santorum, 53, has come a long way from those gritty
early days to the top tier of the Republican presidential
primary race after coming in second to former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney in the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses.  Since his 2006 re-election defeat, the former Pennsylvania
lawmaker has gone from being one of the poorer members of the
 U.S. Senate  to earning $1.3 million between January 2010 and
August 2011. In 2007, he spent $2 million to buy a 5,000-square
foot home in Great Falls, Virginia, according to property
records.  Santorum’s financial rise was powered by consulting
contracts with fuel producer  Consol Energy Inc. (CNX) , faith advocacy
group Clapham Group and American Continental Group, a  Washington 
consultancy, as well as media engagements.  “If he’s claiming he’s not an insider, this is the thing
that insiders do -- after public office they cash in,” said
Kent Cooper, a campaign finance expert and former Federal
Elections Commission assistant staff director.  Stock Options   Outside of his employment contracts, Santorum’s greatest
financial gain came from $395,414 in director fees and stock
options he listed in a recent financial disclosure.  The fees and options came from King of Prussia-based
 Universal Health Services Inc. (UHS) , a publicly traded health-care
management company that was sued in 2010 by the federal
government for alleged Medicaid fraud.  Santorum spokesman Matt Beynon didn’t respond to a request
for comment.  When Santorum left office after the 2006 defeat, he was
earning a $165,200 congressional salary with $32,245 in outside
income from book royalties.  His assets, primarily investment funds, were valued at
between $20,000 and $125,000. “For the Senate, once you get
below a couple million, you’re one of the less wealthy,” said
Cooper.  Home in Suburbs  After leaving office, Santorum signed on with a number of
outside companies and organizations, bringing in $1.3 million
from January 2010 through Aug. 2 of last year, according to
disclosure forms. His home in the Washington Virginia suburbs
has four bedrooms, five bathrooms and sits on five acres of
land.  Santorum listed his assets, including IRA accounts,
education savings plans and stock as being worth between
$339,000 and $1.3 million. His five rental properties in  State
College , Pennsylvania, are worth another $500,000 to $1.25
million, according to the disclosure report that allows wide
ranges for revealing income and asset values.  He earned $217,385 in income as a senior fellow for the
conservative Ethics and Public Policy Center in Washington and
$346,152 for columns in the  Philadelphia Inquirer  and
appearances on  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox and Salem Radio in  California .
Smaller amounts came from the company consulting agreements,
with Consol Energy paying the most at $142,500, during the
period from 2010 to Aug. 2, 2011.  He was also hired in 2007 to work in the Washington office
of Pittsburgh law firm  Eckert Seamans Cherin & Mellott (1283L)  and left
in May 2008, according to firm spokeswoman Karen Come. She
didn’t disclose a reason for his departure.  Biggest Gain  The $395,414 Santorum brought in from his relationship with
Universal Health is his biggest post-Congress monetary gain,
other than his employment contracts, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics in Washington.  Fellow board member Tony Pantaleoni, a lawyer, said
Santorum had a prior relationship with Alan Miller, Universal
Health’s chief executive, and that he “came with a lot of
knowledge about the health industry,” including regulatory
issues in Washington.  “I can recall many times issues would come up and he’d say
that ‘you have to be careful of this particular person with
these views,’” he said, referring to lawmakers. Pantaleoni said
Santorum’s compensation was in line with other board members.  Acute Care Hospitals  Universal Health owns and operates acute care hospitals,
behavioral health centers as well as ambulatory centers all
across the nation and in  Puerto Rico .  According to former  Pennsylvania  Representative Phil English, a Republican who served with Santorum, the senator has
a long history of health-care advocacy. His father was a
psychologist in the Veterans Administration system and Santorum
made his entry into the political world running on the issue.  A supporter of private health savings accounts, he ran
against former Senator Harris Wofford, a Democrat who supported
President  Bill Clinton ’s failed health-care plan. Santorum
received $3 million from the health industry during his
congressional career, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics. Blue Cross Blue Shield is his fourth largest lifetime
donor, at $114,790, and Cigna is the 10th, with $68,610.  Santorum was appointed to the UHS board of directors after
his 2006 loss.  Fraudulent Claims  The  Justice Department  accused the company in a 2010
lawsuit of submitting fraudulent reimbursement claims under the
Medicaid health-care program for the poor. The government said
the company falsely claimed to have provided inpatient
psychiatric services to children at a detention facility in
Marion,  Virginia . Pantaleoni said the case has been settled.  The company has also risked losing certification to receive
Medicare reimbursement for medical centers that it owns.  According to a release on the UHS website, the Rancho
Springs Medical Center and Inland Valley Regional Medical Center
in Riverside County regained their certification in November
after the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services threatened
to terminate their provider agreement in June 2010. The state of
California had also threatened to revoke the group’s hospital
license.  It wasn’t the first time UHS risked losing certification
for one of its facilities. In late September 2008, CMS
terminated participation in Medicare for the Two Rivers
Psychiatric Hospital in  Kansas City . It’s a decision that led to
a court appeal and settlement requiring Two Rivers to retain an
outside monitor for six months.  Preparing for Run  Santorum resigned from the board June 15, 2011, as he
prepared for a presidential run.  Santorum, who has a law degree and master’s of business
administration, was first elected to the U.S. House in 1990 from
a suburban district outside Pittsburgh. He unseated Democratic
Representative Doug Walgren in part by questioning his loyalty
to the district because he had moved his family to Washington.  The former senator and his wife, Karen, have seven
children, including a 3-year-old daughter with a genetic disease
that could shorten her life. The oldest, a daughter, is 20. A
son with a fatal birth defect was born in 1996 and died within
two hours.  After moving his family to Leesburg, Virginia, Santorum was
plagued by his own residency questions.  Tuition Costs  Santorum continued to maintain his home in Penn Hills,
Pennsylvania, while charging the school district in Pennsylvania
$100,000 in tuition costs for the online education of his
children through the Pennsylvania Cyber Charter School from 2001
to 2004, according to the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. The state of
Pennsylvania repaid the district $55,000, according to the
paper.  The Leesburg home also figured in a 2006 ethics complaint
filed by  Melanie Sloan , a former prosecutor and executive
director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in
Washington.  According to Sloan, Santorum received a preferential
$500,000 mortgage on the home from Philadelphia Trust Company,
where he didn’t hold any bank accounts. Officers at the company
had contributed to Santorum’s re-election campaign.  The Senate Committee on Ethics never responded to Sloan’s
complaint and Santorum left office shortly thereafter after
losing his seat.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net 
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  