-- Searching for Yield in Unfamiliar Places
-- B y   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 2012-01-05T22:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/searching-for-yield-in-unfamiliar-places.html
     To deliver a steady stream of income, an investment in
pipelines seems fitting. And it's pipelines, as well as
refineries and other energy assets, that are behind the
popularity of master limited partnerships, which deliver
consistent cash to their owners.  SteelPath Advisors, which specializes in master limited
partnerships, offered the first open-end MLP mutual funds in
2010, including the SteelPath MLP Alpha Fund.
Previously, investors who wanted MLP exposure needed to buy
them directly, which can create tax headaches, or buy
closed-end funds, a structure that can create a mismatch
between the value of fund shares and the assets they
represent.  Bloomberg.com's Ben Steverman asked SteelPath's research
director, Brian Watson, about the growing asset class and its
advantages and disadvantages.
1. What's the appeal of MLPs?  MLPs are partnerships able to trade on exchanges like the
New York Stock Exchange. Their structure allows them to avoid
corporate taxation, though taxes are passed through to holders
of MLPs.  They're attractive primarily because of the assets they
own, especially those that focus on energy infrastructure
assets. The prototypical asset would be a pipeline moving oil
or natural gas between a refinery and a consuming center. They
earn a fee from moving or storing volume, and their margins
have little to do with the vicissitudes of the economy or the
commodity price cycle. So they're very low-risk assets and yet
able to grow their businesses at pretty attractive rates
today. It's a very attractive risk-reward proposition.
2. What is it about these businesses that makes them low risk?  For a pipeline, volume flow is very steady. It doesn't
tend to change much. These are very simple assets really --
tubes that run underneath the ground. They cost a lot to build
right, but, once they're built, they don't cost a lot to
maintain. It's almost the definition of a cash cow. They just
produce cash year in and year out on a very steady basis.  Normally you wouldn't think of a cash cow as growing, but
over the past 10 years the sector has grown by buying assets
from the exploration and production companies that were the
traditional builders and owners of these assets. Also, MLPs
are building significant amounts of new pipelines and storage
and terminal processing plants. In the past five years MLPs
have built more than 80 percent of all new pipeline miles.  Just as REITs [real estate investment trusts] now own
real estate, and everyone knows it, MLPs have officially won
the battle over where energy infrastructure assets belong.  3. The Cushing 30 MLP index has a yield of more than 6
percent, almost three times the typical dividends on stocks.
Why are those dividend yields -- or distributions, as they're
called for MLPs -- so high?  The partnership structure is good from a tax-efficiency
standpoint, but there are complications from owning MLPs
directly. That's why this sector has always been
underowned, giving it a higher yield than you'd expect.  If you own an MLP directly, you get a Schedule K-1 tax
form at the end of the year instead of a 1099. That K-1 will
include UBTI [unrelated business income tax] in many
cases, and you may be required to file state taxes. Mutual
funds fix these tax complications. The owner of our mutual
fund will get a 1099 form from us.
4. Any potential dangers to be aware of in MLPs?  A lot of people think that if you use the MLP
structure, you're a pipeline MLP and you're low risk. The
reality is that a number of entities are MLPs but carry more
risk than people might realize. There are exploration and
production MLPs. There are companies that have processing
plants, where much of the margin can track crude  oil prices .
Make sure you know what you're buying.  If an investor wants to take commodity price
exposure, you'd probably find a better value proposition in
traditional exploration and production corporations, or oil
field service corporations. The MLP sector is not well suited
to make that commodity price bet.  We're trying to focus on traditional pipeline operators.
We own Magellan Midstream Partners, a pipeline company that's
almost completely cleansed of any commodity exposure.  5. MLPs have been very volatile since August, when the
Cushing index dropped 13 percent in seven days. What
happened, and what's the outlook?  Fundamentally, things seem very good. MLP management
teams are expanding their growth plans and increasing
distributions. The sector has suffered from the fact that it
did really well for the previous 12 to 18 months. When
volatility enters the market, a lot of newer investors take
their profits. MLPs have also issued a lot of equity over the
year to meet plans to build out new infrastructure. So you've
had a lot of supply come into the sector, which caused pricing
to be a little weak.  The outlook for 2012 is good. This sector is trading
attractively, in terms of equity prices. The sector is poised
to provide some really healthy distribution growth in the next
year, of 6 percent to 7 percent in 2012. We think long-term
prices follow the distributions higher.
 