-- SEC’s Schapiro Tells Arthur Levitt Her Regrets
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-05T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/sec-s-schapiro-says-she-regrets-loss-in-investor-access-battle.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said her chief regret in three
years running the agency was the failure to beat a court
challenge of a rule letting shareholders put their own board
candidates on corporate ballots.  “I would love to have found a way to structure that rule
and its cost-benefit analysis in such a way that it could have
withstood the court challenge that was brought against it,”
Schapiro said today in an interview with former SEC Chairman
 Arthur Levitt  to air on Bloomberg Radio. “I still believe that
it could be an incredibly important tool for shareholders to
hold boards accountable for the conduct of companies.”  The so-called proxy access rule, which cost the agency $2.5
million to write and defend, was rejected in a July 22 ruling by
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Washington . The court cited an SEC
failure to fully study the rule’s cost to companies -- inspiring
a “redoubling” of agency efforts to study cost-benefit effects
of its new rules, Meredith Cross, chief of the SEC’s Division of
Corporation Finance, said in November.  Schapiro said another major agency effort -- potentially
blending U.S. accounting practices with a unifying system of
International Financial Reporting Standards -- will be decided
“in the next few months.”  “There are some hurdles that have to be passed before
we’re going to be comfortable making the ultimate decision about
whether to incorporate IFRS into the U.S. reporting regime,”
she said. Sticking points include the independence of the
 International Accounting Standards Board  and “the quality and
enforceability of standards,” she said.  As the coming presidential election decides whether
President  Barack Obama  retains the White House, she said she
hasn’t considered what she would do if he asked her to stay in
her job. “I would always listen, but I’m definitely not
thinking that far ahead,” she said, equating the SEC
chairmanship with “being in the middle of a hurricane.”  Levitt, who ran the SEC from 1993 to 2001, is a member of
the board of Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 