-- Sensex Drops, Paring Weekly Gain, on Europe Debt Woes; Coal India Retreats
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2012-01-05T12:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/sensex-gains-on-optimism-central-bank-will-halt-rates-tata-motors-climbs.html
Indian stocks dropped for a second
day on concern that the debt crisis in Europe, the nation’s
biggest trading partner, is worsening.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , the nation’s biggest company,
slumped 2.3 percent. Stocks in Europe and Asia declined after
UniCredit SpA, Italy’s largest bank, said yesterday it will sell
new shares in a 7.5 billion-euro offer to strengthen its capital
position and Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said Greece is at
risk of a “disorderly default.” Australia’s services industry
shrank and the euro weakened ahead of France’s plans to sell as
much as 8 billion euros ($10.4 billion) of debt today.  The BSE  India   Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, fell 25.56, or
0.2 percent, to 15,857.08 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai,
paring its advance this week to 2.6 percent. The measure gained
as much as 0.6 percent intraday.  Europe ’s debt crisis “is a 10-year problem. It’s not a
two-quarter problem,”  Philip Poole , head of investment strategy
at HSBC Global Asset Management, said on Bloomberg Television in
 Hong Kong . “We still don’t see fully the route to a solution.
There’s still more work to be done, it’s going to take time, and
in the interim it’s going to be an overhang to the market.”  The Sensex slumped 25 percent last year on concern a weak
rupee and a record interest-rate increases will exacerbate the
effects of Europe’s debt crisis on company earnings. The rupee
dropped the most among major Asian currencies in 2011.  UniCredit led European banks lower amid concern that more
lenders will be forced to raise capital. The lender, which
announced a rights offer at a 43 percent discount yesterday,
plunged to a 19-year low. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.7
percent and the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  lost 0.8 percent.  Collapse  In Greece,Papademos said that deeper cuts in incomes are
the only way for the country to stay in the euro area and get
more financing from international creditors. These steps are
necessary to avert an economic collapse that may otherwise come
as soon as March, he said.  While as many as 17 of 30 Sensex companies retreated, the
S&P CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index on the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.
was little changed at 4,749.95. The BSE-200 Index was unchanged
at 1901.91.  Reliance Industries slumped 2.3 percent to 699.50 rupees
after yesterday’s 1.1 percent slide.  DLF Ltd. (DLFU) , the biggest real
estate developer, sank 3.9 percent to 179.9 rupees, the most
since Dec. 16, and  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)  lost 1.9 percent to
261.75 rupees, the steepest drop since Dec. 9.  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s largest producer, lost 1.9
percent to 320.55 rupees. India doesn’t plan to raise prices
even as the company has adopted a new system for pricing, Press
Trust of India said, citing Coal Minister Sriprakash Jaiswal.  Food Costs  India’s weekly  food-price  (INWHFOAY) index fell for the first time in
at least 5 1/2 years. The gauge measuring wholesale prices of
agricultural products dropped 3.36 percent in the week ended
Dec. 24 from a year earlier, the commerce ministry said in a
statement in New Delhi today. That’s the lowest level since at
least April 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Notwithstanding an unfavorable domestic policy
environment, cyclical factors could turn a lot more favorable in
2012,” analysts led by Manishi Raychaudhuri wrote in a BNP
Paribas Securities  Asia  report dated Jan. 3. “Policy easing,
driven by moderating core inflation, could drive a moderate
industrial recovery in the second half.”  The central bank paused on  interest rates  last month after
a record 13 increases since mid-March 2010, as factory output in
October fell for the first time in 28 months and the economy
grew last quarter at the weakest pace in more than two years.  ‘Quick Reversal’  The benchmark  inflation (INFINFY)  gauge fell to a one-year low of
9.11 percent in November. That’s still higher than the levels in
Brazil, Russia and  China , which including India, make up the so-
called BRIC nations.  “The monetary cycle has peaked,”  Subir Gokarn , deputy
governor of the RBI, said at a conference in Singapore today.
Still, the country faces inflation risks and the central bank
may not have the room for a “quick reversal” of record rate
increases as the rupee and oil’s rebound reduce the scope for
monetary easing, he said.  Emerging markets  from Turkey to Thailand have cut funding
costs as Europe’s debt crisis hurts exports. The RBI’s next
policy meeting is on Jan. 24.  The Sensex trades at 13.8 times its future earnings, down
from 19.4 times at the end of 2010. The  MSCI Emerging Markets
Index (MXEF)  is valued at 9.5 times.  ‘Not Expensive’  India’s valuation, while at a premium to other emerging
markets, is “not expensive” compared with long-term averages,
Jyotivardhan Jaipuria, the Mumbai-based head of India research
at Bank of America Corp., told reporters today.  “My view is that when RBI gives a signal that they are
going to cut rates somewhere in March and April, we might start
seeing a rally,” he said. “My target is a 15 percent return
for the markets from current levels in 2012.”  Overseas  investors (FIINNET)  bought a net  3.26 billion rupees (FIINNET$)  ($61
million) of domestic equities on Jan. 3. They pulled out $512
million from stocks in 2011, according to the  Securities &
Exchange Board of India . That compares with a record inflow of
$29.4 billion in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 