-- Sequoia Limits New Investors
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-01-05T21:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/sequoia-limits-new-investors-after-being-inundated-.html
The  Sequoia Fund Inc. (SEQUX) , having
reopened to new investors in 2008 after being closed to outside
money for 26 years, is once again limiting new cash.  Ruane Cunniff & Goldfarb Inc., the manager for the $4.9
billion fund, disclosed in a regulatory filing today that it
will no longer sell Sequoia shares through financial advisers
and intermediaries such as  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  It will continue
to sell shares directly to investors.  The fund, started in 1970 by Richard Cunniff and the late
Bill Ruane, a money management team that won a rare endorsement
from billionaire  Warren Buffett , reopened on the cusp of the
financial crisis that plunged the  U.S. economy  into a recession.
Having beaten the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in 2008 and in two
of the three ensuing years, Sequoia is now getting $20 million a
day in net deposits, almost all of which is coming through
financial intermediaries such as Schwab, according to Robert Goldfarb, Ruane Cunniff’s chairman and chief executive officer.  “We are just being inundated by cash,” Goldfarb said
today in a telephone interview. “If we were going to curtail
inflows, we had to go to the source.”  Most stock fund managers would be happy to have cash coming
in these days. Investors pulled a net $131.6 billion from
domestic U.S. stock funds last year, according to preliminary
data compiled by the  Investment Company Institute , a mutual fund
trade association based in  Washington .  ‘Money Seeks It’  While many managers have had trouble beating their
benchmarks because stocks have been moving in unison, Sequoia
has been able to buck this trend by picking companies that
outperform the market, according to Michael Lipper, head of
Lipper Advisory Services Inc. in Summit,  New Jersey . Sequoia’s
largest holding,  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX) ,
jumped 65 percent last year.  “This is a fund that marches to its own drummer and tends
to do very well” when markets are unchanged or down, Lipper
said in a telephone interview today, adding that his firm, which
advises institutions on investing in mutual funds, has held
Sequoia shares for years. “It has relatively good numbers, and
therefore, money seeks it.”  Sequoia generated a 13.2 percent return last year,
outperforming 99 percent of its peers as well as the 2.1 percent
gain that the  S&P 500 index  recorded when dividends are
included. The fund had a total return of 19.5 percent in 2010, a
performance that led Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  to designate
Goldfarb and his colleague David Poppe as its domestic stock
fund managers of the year.  Cash Pile  When the fund reopened in May 2008, cash and short-term
securities totaled about $266 million, or about 8 percent of its
$3.3 billion in net assets reported for the first quarter of
that year. The cash balances had climbed to more than $920
million by the end of last year’s third quarter, filings show,
and exceeded 22 percent of Sequoia’s $4.1 billion in net assets
at the time.  “Our preference would have been to keep the fund open,”
Goldfarb said today. At the same time, he said, the firm “tries
to be careful and disciplined in putting cash to work.”  Ruane, who died in 2005, became friends with Buffett when
the two studied together under legendary value investor  Benjamin Graham  at  Columbia University  in 1951. When Buffett shut down
his investment partnership in 1969 to concentrate on  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , he recommended that his clients invest with
Ruane.  Sequoia’s goal is to invest in a small number of businesses
that Ruane Cunniff has studied intensively and then hold the
stocks for years, even decades. The firm at one point had more
than 30 percent of its assets invested in the billionaire’s
Omaha, Nebraska-based holding company. Having pared this stake
during 2010, Sequoia still had about 11 percent of net assets
invested in Berkshire as of Sept. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  