-- Services in U.S. May Show Economy Picking Up
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-01-05T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/services-in-u-s-probably-grew-at-fastest-pace-in-three-months.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
probably grew in December at the fastest pace in three months,
showing the economy picked up as 2011 drew to a close,
economists said before a report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  index (NAPMNMI)  of non-
manufacturing industries, which account for about 90 percent of
the economy, rose to 53 from 52 in November, according to the
median projection of 65 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The number of applications for jobless benefits fell last week,
another report may show.  Services, which include everything from retailers to
construction companies, benefitted from a pickup in  consumer
spending  during the holidays. Combined with data showing
 manufacturing (NAPMPMI)  grew at the fastest pace in six months, the
figures signal the world’s largest economy is withstanding the
European debt crisis.  “The service sector is holding its own,” said  Jonathan Basile , a U.S. economist at Credit Suisse in  New York . The
industry “is weathering the storm that’s happening in financial
markets and in  Europe .”  The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s data are due at 10 a.m.
Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 52 to 55. Fifty is
the dividing line between expansion and contraction. The
services gauge has averaged 53.1 since the recession ended in
June 2009.  A rebound in the labor market has helped bolster sales and
lift sentiment. Figures from the Labor Department tomorrow may
show the economy generated 150,000 jobs in December after
120,000 the prior month, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The  unemployment rate  rose to 8.7 percent after
falling to 8.6 percent a month earlier, according to the
forecasts.  Private Employment  The employment report may also show private employment,
which excludes government jobs, climbed 175,000 last month after
a 140,000 gain.  Initial  jobless claims (INJCJC)  declined to 375,000 last week from
381,000 the prior period, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before Labor Department figures
today at 8:30 a.m.  Signs the economy picked up in the final months of 2011
have bolstered share prices. Since a recent low on Nov. 25, the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  has gained 10 percent.  As the labor market perks up, Americans are becoming more
comfortable spending. Retail sales at stores open more than a
year may have gained as much as 4.5 percent in December, more
than previously estimated, as discounts attracted holiday
shoppers, the  International Council of Shopping Centers  said in
a statement yesterday.  December Auto Sales  Demand at  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler
Group LLC exceeded analysts’ forecasts in December, other data
showed yesterday. Ford’s U.S. sales climbed 10 percent from a
year earlier, while purchases of Chrysler vehicles were up 37
percent. At GM, they increased 4.5 percent from a year earlier.  “The growth we’re seeing is still based on” a slow
increase in jobs,  Don Johnson , vice president at GM for U.S.
sales, said on a conference call with analysts. “Consumers are
more confident and other underpinnings of our economy are either
stable or slowly improving.”  Consumer  confidence (CONCCONF)  climbed to an eight-month high in
December, according to Conference Board figures last month.  The service industry report follows the group’s
manufacturing data this week that showed an acceleration in
orders and production. The ISM’s index climbed to 53.9 last
month from 52.7 in November.  “The economy has been expanding moderately,
notwithstanding some apparent slowing in global growth,”
Federal Reserve policy makers said Dec. 13 after their latest
meeting.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  