-- Singapore-Malaysia Links to Get Boost as Relations Thaw Under Lee, Najib
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2012-01-05T06:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/singapore-malaysia-links-to-get-boost-as-relations-thaw-under-lee-najib.html
Singapore and  Malaysia  said they may
construct a road tunnel and begin water taxis to boost transport
links, signaling a further easing in political strains between
the two Southeast Asian nations.  The neighbors, previously united as one nation, agreed last
year to jointly embark on $9.8 billion of property projects and
build a mass railway link to Malaysia’s southern Johor state
which should begin operations by 2018, their leaders said today.
They may now work together in other areas such as aviation, with
Singapore’s Changi airport potentially cooperating with
Malaysia’s nearby Senai, their governments said in a statement.  “There are many more areas for potential cooperation,”
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak told reporters today in
Putrajaya, near Kuala Lumpur, after talks with his  Singapore 
counterpart Lee Hsien Loong. “All the current agreements that
both countries have managed to reach will pave the way for
stronger bilateral ties.”  Relations between the two nations, joined as one federation
between 1963 and 1965, improved last year when Malaysia agreed
to move its  railway station  in Singapore’s central business
district to a more northern site close to a bridge that connects
the two countries, ending a decades-old dispute over land usage.
Their governments have previously bickered over other issues
such as the price Singapore pays for water from Malaysia.  Power Sales  “There should be more new initiatives that should be taken
between both countries,” Singapore Prime Minister Lee told
reporters in Putrajaya.  Malaysian companies are prepared to sell electricity to
Singapore, said Najib. The countries are considering road tunnel
and may start water taxis, he said. They may also align radio
frequency spectrum for digital broadcast and mobile broadband,
according to joint statement.  Khazanah Nasional Bhd. (KNBZ)  and Temasek Holdings Pte, the state-
owned investment companies of Malaysia and Singapore, announced
plans last year to cooperate on property projects in southern
Malaysia and downtown Singapore.  This included S$11 billion ($8.5 billion) of Singapore
developments comprising hotels, apartments, offices and shops in
501,020 square meters (5.4 million square feet) of space in two
main areas of the city’s downtown, incorporating Malaysia’s
former train station site.  Funding Sought  The state investment companies are in talks with banks to
provide financing for the project, Khazanah and Temasek said in
a separate e-mailed statement.  They also plan to jointly construct 3 billion ringgit ($955
million) of projects in Malaysia’s southern Iskandar economic
development zone, including homes, retail space and
“wellness-related offerings,” the companies said.  “The development of Iskandar and its success is very
important for Singapore as it will benefit both sides in many
ways,” Lee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Barry Porter  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net . 