-- PetroChina, Sinopec Say Threshold on Windfall Tax Increased
-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-01-06T04:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/sinopec-says-china-raises-oil-windfall-tax-threshold-to-55-1-.html
China  raised the threshold on a
windfall tax paid by crude oil producers including  PetroChina Co. (857) 
and  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  in a move that analysts say
may spur exploration of the nation’s energy resources.  The threshold was raised to $55 a barrel from $40 effective
Nov. 1, PetroChina and China Petroleum, known as Sinopec, said
in statements filed to the Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday.
The tax was introduced in March 2006. Shares rose.  “This will encourage more offshore China exploration as
well as onshore,” said  Gordon Kwan , the Hong Kong-based head of
regional energy research at Mirae Asset Securities HK Ltd.
“This is good for the three major  oil companies  and the major
oil players” from overseas, he said. “Anyone operating in
China has to pay the windfall tax.”  The increase in the threshold of the so-called special oil
income levy coincides with a nationwide implementation of a
value-based tax on oil and gas sales from the same day. The
change in the windfall tax will offset the 5 to 10 percent
resources tax, Kwan said.  Many analysts lowered their earnings estimates for oil
companies in November when the resources tax, previously based
on volume of sales, was implemented, according to Kwan. These
forecasts may now be increased to earlier levels, and the shares
of Chinese oil companies may outperform today, he said.  PetroChina rose 2.5 percent to HK$10.64 in Hong Kong
trading at the midday break, compared with the 1.4 percent drop
in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index . Sinopec advanced 1.9 percent,
while  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  climbed 3.1 percent.  Rising Crude Prices  Crude has tripled to about $101 a barrel in  New York  since
sliding to a four-year settlement low of $33.87 in December 2008
amid a global recession. Higher prices meant oil producers in
China had to pay more windfall taxes, which are calculated every
month and collected quarterly.  China was due to raise the threshold in 2011 when the
government implements a nationwide resources tax, PetroChina
Chairman  Jiang Jiemin  said on March 14, citing a government plan.  The trigger point of the windfall tax ought to be raised to
at least $60 a barrel, with $80 being the “most reasonable”
level, Yu Baocai, a vice president at China National Petroleum
Corp., PetroChina’s parent, said in March last year.  ‘Too Low’  Sinopec Chairman Fu Chengyu told the government in
September that $50 a barrel would be “too low.”  “Most of Sinopec’s onshore oilfields will lose money at a
$50 threshold,” Fu said at a meeting of the State Council, or
Cabinet, according to a  memo  posted Nov. 9 on an employee
training website operated by unit Sinopec Shengli Oilfield Co.
“Sinopec’s average cost per barrel of oil in China was $52,
with oil from several fields costing about $70 to $75 a
barrel.”  The  finance ministry  doesn’t consider foreign exchange
movements when setting the threshold, which means tax payments
would be higher in yuan terms following the Chinese currency’s
appreciation, Fu said. The windfall tax is assessed in dollars.  The yuan has risen 23 percent against the dollar since
March 2006 when the levy was introduced, and the government has
increased the threshold by 37.5 percent.  The net effect of the higher threshold is smaller than it
appears because the yuan has appreciated, said Neil Beveridge, a
Hong Kong-based energy analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “In terms of value in Chinese currency, the increase is
positive, but not as impressive,” Beveridge said.  While all three Chinese oil majors will gain from the
change, “taking the adjustment to the windfall tax and resource
tax together, Cnooc benefits most with an earnings-per-share
impact of 9.4 percent,” he said. Cnooc is China’s biggest
offshore energy explorer.  The levy will be charged at 20 percent starting at $55 a
barrel and rise in $5 increments to a maximum of 40 percent at
$75 a barrel, according to PetroChina and Sinopec. Previously,
the levy started at $40 and reached the maximum at $60.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in  Hong Kong  at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 