-- Slovenian President Turk Names Poll Winner Jankovic as Premier
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-01-05T13:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/slovenian-president-turk-names-poll-winner-jankovic-as-premier.html
Ljubljana Mayor Zoran Jankovic, who
won Slovenia’s snap election on Dec. 4, was asked to form a
Cabinet as the euro-region nation struggles with mounting debt
and a threat of a  credit-rating  cut.  Jankovic’s  Positive Slovenia  party won 28 seats in the 90-
member assembly and the former chief of store chain  Mercator
Poslovni Sistem (MELR)  d.d. was named as premier-designate, President
Danilo Turk told reporters in Ljubljana today. Jankovic is
seeking support from smaller parties to form a majority
coalition.  “I hope this nomination will speed up talks to form the
new Cabinet,” Turk said.  Slovenia, the first former communist nation to adopt the
euro almost five years ago, had its credit rating lowered one
level by Moody’s Investors Service to A1 from Aa3 on Dec. 22 on
the risk that the state of government finances may deteriorate
from a possible need to support its banks. Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings said last month they may cut the scores of 15
euro-region members after assessing the outcome a European Union
summit on a tighter fiscal pact.  The next government will need to tackle rising debt and the
threat of a recession for the export-driven economy as efforts
to solve the sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  fail to win
investor confidence. The government is a majority owner of Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. (KBMR) , the
country’s two biggest lenders.  Slovenians went to the polls after the government of Prime
Minister Borut Pahor was ousted in September for failing to
convince voters on the need to adopt pension changes and its
inability to cut spending. Lawmakers on Dec. 23 adopted 150
million euros ($196 million) of savings measures by freezing
public employee’s wages, pensions and benefit payments to allay
investors’ concern over its debt.  Slovenia’s public debt is forecast to surge to over 50
percent of total output in 2012 from 23 percent in 2007,
according to the European Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  