-- SocGen Paces French Bank Share Slide as Government Sells Debt
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-01-05T12:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/socgen-leads-french-bank-shares-lower-before-nation-s-debt-sale.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE)  paced a decline
by French bank shares as the government offered investors higher
yields to complete its first sovereign-debt sale of the year.  Societe Generale (GLE) ,  France ’s second-largest bank, slid 4.4
percent to 16.25 euros at 12:56 p.m. local time, giving it a
market value of 12.6 billion euros ($16.2 billion).  BNP Paribas
SA (BNP) , the nation’s biggest bank, fell 3.4 percent, to 29.60 euros.  France sold 7.96 billion euros of debt today as credit-
rating companies threaten to cut the nation’s AAA rating,
potentially constraining the state’s ability to help banks if
the region’s debt crisis worsens. Financial shares have also
suffered after  Italy ’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  offered a 43 percent
discount to raise 7.5 billion euros in a rights offering and
bolster its capital.  “It’s a combination of apprehensions,” said Matthew Czepliewicz, a London-based analyst at Collins Stewart Hawkpoint
Plc. “Since the start of the crisis you’ve seen a correlation
between swings in banks’ shares and sovereign fears,” and there
are “lingering concerns in the wake of how deep the UniCredit
discount was,” he said. He has “buy” ratings on Societe
Generale and  BNP Paribas. (BNP)   French 30-year bonds pared their declines after the sale
was completed, though the euro continued to weaken against the
dollar. The average yield on the 10-year bonds sold today was
3.29 percent, up from 3.18 percent at the most recent comparable
sale on Dec. 1.  France’s four largest banks -- BNP Paribas, Societe
Generale,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and Groupe BPCE -- need to
refinance about 37 billion euros of debt due in the first
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  