-- Solar Developers in Gujarat Get Extension to Complete Projects
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-01-05T03:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/solar-developers-in-gujarat-get-extension-to-complete-projects.html
Developers of projects under
construction in  India ’s largest solar program have been given a
month’s extension to complete their plants without losing their
preferential payment rates.  The deadline for all projects has been extended until Jan.
28, after which the above-market rates to be paid for their
power will no longer be applicable, S. B. Patil,  executive
director  at the state-run Gujarat Energy Development Agency
overseeing the solar program, said yesterday by phone.  Gujarat promoted solar plants by promising to provide
sites, distribution infrastructure and quick approval to
projects built in its designated solar park. The state
electricity regulator pledged to pay  15 rupees  (28 cents) a
kilowatt-hour for 12 years, about three times the wholesale
market rate for power, to photovoltaic plants completed by the
extended deadline. It plans to lower that rate by as much as 32
percent after this date, according to a  draft proposal  on its
website.  India, the world’s third-biggest energy consumer, plans to
become one of the fastest-growing solar markets by building
20,000 megawatts of capacity by 2022. Gujarat was the first
Indian state to invite companies to build sun-powered plants in
the country, and how it deals with delayed projects may set a
precedent.  More than 900 megawatts of photovoltaic plants were
supposed to be built by Dec. 31 in the state, according to
contracts signed by companies including  Adani Power Ltd. (ADE) ,  Lanco
Infratech Ltd. (LANCI) ,  Tata Power Co. (TPWR) , and  GMR Infrastructure Ltd. (GMRI)  with
the state electricity distributor. Companies had to post a
deposit of 5 million rupees for each megawatt of capacity they
won, which would be forfeited if they failed to build their
plants on time.  Extension Hearings  In December, the regulator held at least 45 hearings with
developers, including Tata Power and GMR, that sought an
extension of the deadline, according to a  list of hearings  on
the website of the Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission.  Some developers, including World Bank-backed Azure Power
India Pvt., Welspun Energy Ltd. and Green Infra Ltd. have
already completed their projects. Others sought extensions
because of delays in acquiring land and heavy rains that blocked
access to sites, according to letters sent to industry group
Solar Energy Association of Gujarat obtained by Bloomberg News.  Astral Power Pvt., which is building a 25-megawatt plant
using  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) ’s thin-film panels, said it was awarded
land only on Oct. 2 after the location was changed three times
by authorities. That delayed shipment of panels and equipment
until late December because it couldn’t obtain a letter of
credit from lenders until it secured land, according to Astral’s
letter to SEAG. Similar difficulties were echoed in letters by
Inspira Infrastructure Ltd. for its 15-megawatt plant and Surana
Group for its 5-megawatt facility.  MBH Power Pvt. doesn’t expect to complete its 1-megawatt
plant until Feb. 28 because of land acquisition delays, heavy
rains that blocked access to the site and difficulties with
distribution infrastructure, it said in a letter.  D.J. Pandian, principal secretary of the state’s Energy &
Petrochemicals Department, didn’t to respond to calls and e-
mails requesting comment on whether the tariff would be extended
or companies would be fined for delays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  