-- Solar Millennium Sale Process Starts as Company Seeks Investors
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-01-05T16:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/solar-millennium-sale-process-starts-as-company-seeks-investors.html
Solar Millennium AG (S2M) ’s insolvency
administrator is seeking to sell parts or all of the German
developer of sun-powered plants.  Volker Boehm of Schulze & Braun said today in a  statement 
that it’s seeking buyers for the company’s 60 or so project
units and stakes, including Oakland, California-based Solar
Trust of America LLC, which is planning the world’s biggest
solar plant.  Potential buyers have already approached Solar Millennium
and initial talks have started, Boehm said in a phone interview.
Boehm said he’s “very optimistic” that projects can be
divested. “The further developed a project is, the more
attractive it is for potential buyers,” he said.  Solar Millennium filed for insolvency on Dec. 21, citing
slow progress in selling its 2.25-gigawatt U.S. project pipeline
and failure to reach an agreement to bring in investors for its
Ibersol project in  Spain . Solar Trust is developing the 1-
gigawatt facility in Blythe,  California .  Talks with  Solarhybrid AG (SHL) , a Brilon, Germany-based
renewable energy developer interested in acquiring Solar
Millennium’s U.S. projects, are continuing, Boehm said. He
didn’t want to name other potential buyers.  Solarhybrid is in talks with First Solar Inc., the biggest
maker of thin-film panels, to supply the projects, Solarhybrid
Chief Financial Officer Albert Klein said Dec. 22.  Initial talks with project partners of the Arenales solar-
thermal plant in Spain “have been positive,” he said.  Solar Millennium AG (S2M)  and Spanish builder Obrascon Huarte
Lain SA in August sold 49 percent of the 50-megawatt project to
a fund managed by Deutsche Bank AG’s RREEF unit.  “It’s of key importance that these advanced projects are
continuing smoothly,” Boehm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  