-- Soros Says Euro-Area’s Failure Would Have a ’Catastrophic’ Global Impact
-- B y   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2012-01-05T10:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/soros-says-fracture-of-euro-area-would-have-catastrophic-consequences.html
Billionaire investor  George Soros 
said a fracturing of the euro area would have “catastrophic”
consequences and that markets have started pricing in the
possibility of the region breaking up.  The disintegration of the 17-nation currency bloc would
affect  Europe  and the “entire global financial system,” Soros
said in the southern Indian city of Hyderabad today in response
to questions.  Leaders in the euro region have struggled to solve a
sovereign-debt crisis that’s hampered the global recovery and is
now in its third year. Greece, Ireland and Portugal have already
been forced into bailouts and the  European Central Bank  has
provided unprecedented cash injections, easing borrowing costs
for  Italy , Spain and Belgium.  Soros said it isn’t currently clear whether the crisis will
be contained, adding many people “feel” it’s “over the brink”
and “insolvable.”  The euro fell to a 15-month low against the dollar on
concern the region’s governments and banks will struggle to
raise funds. It weakened 0.5 percent to $1.2875 at 9:38 a.m.
London time, after falling as much as 0.7 percent to $1.2848,
the least since September 2010.  Markets are “far from equilibrium and extremely difficult
to predict using the yardsticks or methods that were used in the
past,” Soros said, adding investors “have to play it safe” and
that “unless you can anticipate events correctly, it’s better to
do nothing than to keep on losing money.”  Soros is best known for making $1 billion in 1992 betting
the  Bank of England  would be forced to devalue the pound. He has
given away more than $8 billion in the last 30 years to promote
democracy, foster free speech, improve education and fight
poverty around the world, he said in a recent essay.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net ;
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  