-- South Africa Stocks: Anglo, AngloGold, Harmony, Mercantile, MTN
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-01-05T16:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/south-africa-stocks-anglo-bhp-anglogold-harmony-sasfin-move.html
The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH) 
declined for the first time in three days, falling 0.9 percent
to 32,599.06 by the close in Johannesburg.  The following were among the active equities in the South
African market today. Stock symbols follow company names.  Anglo American Plc (AGL)  , the mining company that makes
up about 9 percent of the benchmark, dropped for the first time
in four days, slipping 1 percent to 310.86 rand. Copper fell for
a second day in  New York  as a smaller-than-expected increase in
euro-zone industrial orders stoked concern the region’s debt
crisis is threatening growth and demand for metals.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BIL)  , the world’s biggest miner, fell
1.8 percent to 247.50 rand.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  , Africa’s biggest producer
of the metal, declined for the first time in four days, sliding
1.8 percent to 353.75 rand. Production at the company’s Savuka
mine near Carletonville,  South Africa , was stopped after a miner
died in a fall-of-ground accident, the company said in an e-
mailed statement today.  Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR)  , South Africa’s third-
largest gold producer, fell the most in more than a week,
dropping 3.2 percent to 96.37 rand. The company stopped all
operations at its Doornkop mine in South Africa yesterday after
a mud slide killed a worker.  Mercantile Bank Holdings Ltd. (MTL)  , the lender
controlled by  Portugal ’s Caixa Geral de Depositos SA, closed at
a six-month high, rising 20 percent to 30 cents. The company
said it would make an offer to minority shareholders to buy all
their Mercantile securities.  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN)  , Africa’s largest mobile-phone
company, fell the most since February 2009, dropping 5.4 percent
to 132.06 rand. The removal of fuel subsidies in Nigeria and
proposed sanctions against  Iran , two of MTN’s largest markets,
were affecting shares in the company, Khulekani Dlamini, head of
research at Cape Town-based Afena Capital, said by phone.  Sasfin Holdings Ltd. (SFN)  , a financial services group,
rose for a third day, climbing 1.6 percent to 29 rand. The
company will continue raising funds from development banks and
deposits from wealthy customers to ensure it has a stable base
from which to increase lending, Johannesburg-based Business Day
said, citing Jonathan Newfield, Sasfin Bank’s head of group
strategy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net  and Sikonathi Mantshantsha in
Johannesburg at   smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  