-- Korean Won Retreats as Europe Debt Jitters Counter U.S. Optimism
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-01-05T06:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/south-korea-s-won-retreats-as-europe-debt-jitters-counter-u-s-optimism.html
South Korea ’s won retreated from a
three-week high as concern Europe’s debt crisis will worsen
outweighed upbeat U.S. economic reports.  Government bonds 
advanced.  UniCredit SpA, Italy’s largest bank, said yesterday it will
sell new shares to raise more capital.  France  plans to sell as
much as 8 billion euros ($10.4 billion) of debt today as credit
companies threaten to cut the nation’s AAA rating. U.S. retail
sales at stores open at least a year may have gained as much as
4.5 percent in December, more than previously estimated, the
International Council of Shopping Centers said yesterday.  “Investors are seeking direction of the Korean won amid
mixed signals from Europe’s debt crisis and positive U.S.
data,” said Lee Jung Hyun, a Seoul-based currency dealer at
Industrial Bank of  Korea . “Concern that further negative
reports may come out from  Europe  will be a drag on emerging-
market currencies.”  The won slipped 0.3 percent to 1,152.56 per dollar in
 Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
touched 1,144.49 yesterday, the strongest level since Dec. 12,
after a report indicated U.S. manufacturing expanded in December
at the fastest pace in six months.  The yield on South Korea’s 3.5 percent bonds due September
2016 declined for the first time this week, falling one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.48 percent, according to
Korea Exchange Inc. prices.  Foreign funds cut their holdings of South Korea’s local-
currency bonds last month by the most in a year, according to
data released today by the Financial Supervisory Service. The
amount of the securities they owned fell 3.9 trillion won ($3.4
billion) to 83 trillion won.  South Korea will strengthen monitoring of the economy and
financial markets to deal with possible risks including the
European debt crisis and a rise in raw-material prices, the
 finance ministry  said Jan. 3. Policy makers will also seek
measures to ease volatility of capital flows to ensure stability
in the foreign-exchange market, the ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  