-- Spanish Cabinet Isn’t Considering Bad Bank, Deputy PM Says
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-01-05T15:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/spain-says-banks-face-an-additional-64-billion-of-provisions.html
Spain ’s Cabinet isn’t considering
creating a so-called bad bank to buy troubled assets linked to
real estate from lenders’ books, Deputy Prime Minister Soraya
Saenz de Santamaria said.  The option of a bad bank “is not on the table” of the
Cabinet, she said after ministers met today in  Madrid . The
government will carry out a “clean-up and restructuring” of
the industry in the first half of the year, she said, without
giving details.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , who took over last month
after defeating the Socialists in the general election, has
pledged to clean up the banking industry without spending more
public funds. Lenders are burdened by 176 billion euros ($225
billion) of what the Bank of Spain calls “troubled” assets
linked to real estate, while struggling with rising bad loans
and borrowing costs.  Spanish banks face as much as 50 billion euros of
additional provisions as the government wants to minimize the
cost to taxpayers of overhauling the system, Economy Minister
Luis de Guindos told the Financial Times in comments confirmed
by a spokeswoman at the  Economy Ministry  in Madrid today. Most
banks can provide the provisions from their earnings and it
could be done over several years, de Guindos said.  Soured Assets  Lenders already made provisions of 105 billion euros,
equivalent to amount 10 percent of Spanish gross domestic
product, in the three years through June 2011, according to the
Bank of Spain.  The state has injected about 17 billion euros into former
savings banks, taking stock and preference shares in return, and
the Socialist government changed the law a month before the
general election so that the banking industry rather than the
taxpayer would absorb any losses from the restructuring.  Rajoy had asked for at least two papers from academics
about how to create a bad bank that could buy soured assets from
lenders, two people with knowledge of the matter said in
November.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s biggest lender, fell 3.8
percent in Madrid trading, while  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria
SA (BBVA)  shares declined 4.1 percent. Spain’s Ibex 35 main share index
slipped 2.4 percent at 3:40 p.m.  With assistance from Angeline Benoit in Madrid. Editors: Stephen
Taylor, Steve Bailey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net 
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  