-- Stanford’s Defense Experts Paid, Told by Court to Keep Preparing for Trial
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-01-05T22:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/stanford-s-defense-experts-paid-ordered-to-remain-on-case-1-.html
R. Allen Stanford’s defense experts
were ordered by a U.S. appellate court to keep preparing for the
former financier’s trial over an alleged $7 billion investment
fraud. The court also agreed to pay their back wages.  All of Stanford’s non-attorney experts quit last week after
appellate judges controlling the former billionaire’s taxpayer-
funded defense budget said they would limit and withhold the
experts’ compensation until after conclusion of his trial, set
to begin Jan. 23 in a federal court in Houston.  “It would be neither feasible nor economical to obtain a
replacement to perform the services Marcum was expected by
counsel to provide,” Judge Edith Jones, the chief of the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in  New Orleans , said in a letter yesterday to
Marcum LLP, one of the expert contractors that resigned last
week from Stanford’s defense team.  The service providers were also “ordered to continue work
on the case as previously planned, including the provision of
testifying experts, through the end of trial, and, if required
by counsel, through the conclusion of the case in the district
court,” Jones said in the letter, which was posted to the
court’s electronic docket.  Accumyn Consulting and the Worley Group had also resigned
last week over non-payment of bills dating back to September,
according to court filings. Jones issued similar orders and
agreements to pay overdue invoices for those two expert-services
contractors to keep them working on Stanford’s defense.  Preparation Time  Ali Fazel, Stanford’s lead criminal-defense attorney, asked
U.S. District Judge David Hittner last week to delay Stanford’s
trial for three months to allow more preparation time. Fazel
argued that Stanford has had too little time since being
declared mentally competent to adequately review documents
critical to his defense.  Fazel said the defense was hampered by the resignation of
all expert-services contractors on Dec. 30, after the appellate
court balked at paying their bills. Jones, in her letters
yesterday, said billings by Marcum and Accumyn feature “hourly
rates significantly in excess of the rates payable under the
Criminal Justice Act to even the most experienced attorneys.”  Jones said the court would “consider” future payments for
work by Accumyn and Marcum according to a sliding schedule
pegged to the beginning and end of Stanford’s criminal trial, as
well as any post-trial work the firms provide. Jones didn’t
require withholding for work she ordered the Worley Group to
provide.  Flight Risk  Stanford, 61, has been in custody as a flight risk since he
was indicted in June 2009 on charges of defrauding investors
through allegedly bogus certificates of deposit at his Antigua-
based Stanford International Bank. He denies any wrongdoing.  Stanford was declared mentally fit for trial on Dec. 22,
after completing eight months of rehabilitation at the federal
prison hospital in Butner,  North Carolina . Hittner found the
former financier had sufficiently recovered to understand the
proceedings and assist with his defense after suffering head
injuries in a September 2009 jailhouse assault and becoming
addicted to anxiety drugs prescribed by prison doctors following
the attack.  Hittner appointed taxpayer-funded defense attorneys for
Stanford in 2010 after he found the former billionaire to be
indigent. Stanford, who was ranked the 205th richest person in
the U.S. in 2008 by Forbes magazine, is accused by the
government of skimming more than $1 billion in investor funds to
finance a lavish lifestyle of private jets, yachts and a
Caribbean island.  ‘Massive Ponzi Scheme’  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission seized all of
Stanford’s personal and corporate assets in February 2009, when
it sued him on claims he ran a “massive Ponzi scheme” built on
the Antiguan bank CDs. Stanford also lost access to his
corporate directors-and-officers liability insurance last year,
after underwriters won the right to refuse coverage on the basis
of a guilty plea by Stanford’s former finance chief.  “Stanford, as an indigent defendant, is entitled to a
solid, capable, and competent defense, not the deluxe or
‘perfect’ defense that he might have otherwise desired were he
still in control of the millions (or even billions) of dollars
indicative of his past lifestyle,” Hittner said in a Dec. 28
order.  Request Rejected  In separate orders issued today, Hittner rejected
Stanford’s request to again delay the trial, and he chided
defense lawyers for failing to follow court rules or heed
previous evidentiary rulings in the case.  The judge called their delay motion “a rehash of
objections and summation arguments made during the hearing” and
already considered and rejected. Hittner said he “again
directs, and now admonishes, Stanford’s defense team to prepare
for trial.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Blumberg in  San Francisco  at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  