-- Standard Chartered Seeks Myanmar Return, Sees Sanctions Ending
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-01-05T09:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/standard-chartered-seeks-myanmar-return-sees-sanctions-ending.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K. bank
that earns more than two-thirds of its profit in  Asia , seeks to
return to  Myanmar (IGRPMMR)  once the U.S. and Britain end sanctions
against the country, which the lender says may happen this year.  “We used to be in Burma for a long time, and we’ll be very
happy to get back there,” Jaspal Bindra, the bank’s chief
executive officer for Asia, said at a meeting with journalists
in  Hong Kong  today. “If I was a betting man, I would say in
2012 Burma will be off the sanctions list.”  Like  North Korea , the only other Asian market where
Standard Chartered doesn’t operate, Myanmar remains largely
disconnected from international commerce. U.S. measures against
the country formerly known as  Burma  have been tightening since
1988, when President Ronald Reagan suspended aid and banned arms
sales after soldiers killed about 3,000 student protesters.  Secretary of State Hillary Clinton last month became the
highest-level U.S. official to visit Myanmar in more than five
decades as the country moved to release political prisoners.
Clinton pledged to upgrade relations if the government takes
further steps to ease repression.  Myanmar’s citizens earn an estimated $2.20 per day on
average, about one-seventh of the per capita income in
neighboring Thailand, according to International Monetary Fund
 statistics . The country was ranked third-worst in Transparency
International’s Corruption Perceptions Index published last
month, trailed only by North Korea and Somalia.  Natural gas output almost quadrupled in the past decade to
12.1 billion cubic meters in 2010, according to the BP
Statistical Review. Italian-Thai Development Pcl,  Thailand ’s
biggest construction company, signed an $8.6-billion contract in
2010 with Myanmar’s government to build a deep-sea port and
industrial park.  Headquarters Location  The bank’s board is looking “all the time” at whether it
should move its headquarters from  London  in response to
“pressure” from stakeholders, Bindra said.  “It’s not a decision you take lightly” because a decision
about locating a headquarters requires a timeframe of 50-100
years, Bindra said. “And it’s very difficult to predict which
part of the world will be worse off or better off in the next 50
to 100 years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  