-- Stanley Kwan, Creator of Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Stock Index, Dies at 86
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-01-06T08:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/stanley-kwan-banker-who-created-hang-seng-stock-index-in-1969-dies-at-86.html
Stanley Kwan, the banker whose 1969
creation, the Hang Seng Index, became a widely used gauge for
the  Hong Kong  Stock Exchange, has died. He was 86.  He died Dec. 31 at Scarborough Grace Hospital in Toronto,
according to the website of Toronto’s R.S. Kane Funeral Home.
The cause was heart failure, the Toronto Star  reported .  The Hang Seng Index is “the ultimate capitalist measure of
Hong Kong,” Robert Nield, president of the Royal Asiatic
Society’s Hong Kong branch, wrote in a foreword to Kwan’s 2008
 book , “The Dragon and the Crown: Hong Kong Memoirs.”  As a banker at  Hang Seng Bank Ltd. (11)  from 1962, Kwan saw his
creation mirroring the growth pains of Hong Kong, with the index
crashing during the 1974 world oil crisis and the 1983 impasse
between  China  and Britain during handover talks, as well as
benefiting from the opening up of the mainland. The index’s 48
members now include Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.,
the world’s largest lender by market value, and PetroChina Co.,
Asia’s biggest company by market value.  As Kwan told it in his book, the bank’s chairman, Ho Sin
Hang, and general manager, Q. W. Lee, decided late in 1969
“that they needed a measure of the performance of the stock
market for their own as well as their customers’ reference.”
Kwan said Ho spoke of creating the “ Dow Jones Industrial
Average (INDU)  of Hong Kong.”  Setting Base Day  According to the  draft notes  for a speech Kwan gave in 2009
in  Vancouver , the Hong Kong economy had hit “rock bottom”
after riots related to the Cultural Revolution swept the city in
1967. He said some within Hang Seng Bank had questioned the plan
for the index as it was “only a small Chinese bank.”  Kwan, who headed the bank’s research department, said he
led a staff of seven in consulting government and university
statisticians and economists.  “Stanley was willing to accept opinions and he was good at
incorporating different ideas,” said Roger Luk, a former deputy
chief executive officer at Hang Seng Bank who worked with Kwan
for seven years. “He never gave himself all the credit for
founding the  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)  He seldom boasted about this
achievement.”  For the index’s “base day” -- the normal period of
trading that other days would be compared with -- Kwan and his
group settled on July 31, 1964. The group chose the initial 33
companies that would be the index’s constituent stocks, as well
as guidelines for replacing or adding other companies in the
future. The Hang Seng Index debuted on Nov. 24, 1969.  No Lasting Fame  “In the end, the system worked well,” Kwan wrote. “By
the time I retired in 1984, the number of companies listed on
the Hong Kong Stock Exchange had increased to over 250, but the
number of constituent stocks remained 33, and these companies
still accounted for about 75 percent of total market value
(based on the average for the last 12 months) and over 70
percent of total market turnover (based on the aggregate for the
last 24 months).”  Kwan, who retired to  Canada , said in a December 2010
interview with the Toronto Star that his role in history earned
him no lasting fame.  “If I walked into the Hang Seng Bank head office today, no
one would know me,” he said.  Stanley Shih Kuang Kwan was born on Jan. 10, 1925, in Hong
Kong to a banking family, according to the funeral home. A
survivor of the Japanese occupation of Hong Kong during World
War II, he served as a wartime interpreter for U.S. troops on
mainland China before starting his banking career.  Hired by Hang Seng Bank in part because he spoke both
English and Chinese, Kwan was made head of research, according
to the 2010 Toronto Star profile.  ‘Test of Time’  “The index he created has stood the test of time,” said
 Andrew Sullivan , principal sales trader at Piper Jaffray  Asia 
Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. “It has given a good indication
of the performance of the Hong Kong market in general and with a
number of changes implemented over the years still does.”  After Kwan’s retirement, the index climbed to a high of
16,673.27 on Aug. 7, 1997, before the Asian financial crisis
sent it tumbling. The government spent HK$118 billion ($15.2
billion) buying shares in the last two weeks of August 1998,
supporting the gauge.  The Hang Seng Index also fell to a 4 1/2-year low in April
2003, when the city was swept by an outbreak of the severe acute
respiratory disease, an illness brought over by a Chinese
visitor, underscoring the city’s increasing ties with the
mainland.  The index rose to a record 31,638.22 points on Oct. 30,
2007, a year before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse and
the global banking crisis drove equities down. As of yesterday,
the gauge was 41 percent below its peak.  Kwan’s wife, Wing Kin, predeceased him, according to the
 funeral home . Survivors include their two daughters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in  Washington  at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  