-- Sugar Drops Most Since September on Brazil Outlook; Coffee, Cocoa Falls
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-01-05T20:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/sugar-drops-most-since-september-on-brazil-outlook-coffee-cocoa-falls.html
Sugar fell the most since September
as weather conditions improved for  Brazil ’s cane crop, the
world’s largest, and a stronger dollar curbed the appeal of
commodities as investments. Coffee and cocoa dropped.  Brazil’s Center South, the world’s top sugar-producing
region, will get rains in the next 10 days, easing concern that
an earlier dry spell would erode yields from this year’s
harvest, weather forecaster Somar Meteorologia said today.  There are “some forecasts for rains in southern Brazil
that could be beneficial,”  Jack Scoville , a vice president for
Price Futures Group in  Chicago , said in an e-mail.  Raw sugar for March delivery plunged 5.3 percent to settle
at 23.13 cents a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures in  New York , the
biggest decline since Sept. 16. The sweetener sank 27 percent in
2011 as crops expanded in  Asia  and  Europe .  Sugar posted the biggest decline today among the 24
commodities tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index,
which fell as much as 1.5 percent on signs of a worsening debt
crisis in Europe. The euro fell to an 11-year low against the
yen and the weakest level in 15 months versus the dollar.  “Fund selling on continued dollar strength” led the
slide, Scoville said.  Pre-set sell orders “were triggered around 23.24 cents a
pound,” accelerating the drop, Jeff Bauml, a senior vice
president at R.J. O’Brien & Associates in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “The market is very nervous about European
banks.”  Put Options  Prices also were weighed down by an increase in purchases
of put options that provide the holder the right, but not the
obligation, to sell sugar at 20 cents to 21 cents a pound by a
set date, Jeff Dobrydney, a vice president for Wilton,
Connecticut-based Jenkins Sugar Group, said by telephone.  “The market is in a precarious situation,” based on
technical analysis, Dobrydney said. “If we break below 22.59
cents,” the low reached on Dec. 27, “we could see another
selloff like today,” he said.  Ethanol production in the U.S. rose to a record 963,000
barrels last week, according to an Energy Department report,
signaling less need for sugar-based fuel imports from Brazil,
Sterling Smith, an analyst with Country Hedging in  St. Paul ,
 Minnesota , said in an e-mail.  Arabica-coffee futures for March delivery declined 3.2
percent to close at $2.1955 a pound in New York, the biggest
drop since Oct. 31. The price sank 29 percent since reaching a
14-year high in May.  Cocoa futures for March delivery dropped 2.3 percent to
$2,028 a metric ton in New York, the second day of losses, after
touching $2,016, the lowest for a most-active contract since
Dec. 12. The commodity fell 31 percent last year.  In London futures trading, refined sugar, robusta coffee
and cocoa also declined on NYSE Liffe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  