-- Sullivan & Cromwell Leads 2011 Legal Advisers With $326 Billion in Deals
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-01-05T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/sullivan-cromwell-tops-global-m-a-advisers-in-volatile-year.html
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP (1147L)  regained the
top spot among legal advisers on mergers and acquisitions in
2011 as deals rose by 3.7 percent in a year lawyers said was
marked by volatility tied to European debt and regulatory
enforcement.  The law firm ranked No. 1 last year with $325.7 billion in
transactions, up from $243.4 billion in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The New York-based firm participated in
14 percent of global mergers and acquisitions by market value.
 Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom (1112L)  LLP fell to second place
with $287.4 billion in deals.  Companies announced $2.27 trillion of M&A transactions in
2011, up from $2.19 trillion in 2010 and $1.77 trillion in 2009,
according to Bloomberg data. Concerns over the European
sovereign debt crisis tempered the deal market in the second
half of last year, lawyers said.  “If you asked me in June, I thought this would be a
$3 trillion dollar year but $2.3 trillion is good,” said Robert Profusek, head of mergers and acquisitions at  Jones Day (1113L) , which
ranked No. 1 by deal count, with 460, and 14th overall. “It’s
about where we were in 2005. We had a good year despite this
obsession with negativity that dominated the  capital markets  and
the financial press.”  The overall pace of deal-making is 56 percent that of 2007,
when $4.04 trillion in mergers were announced, according to
Bloomberg data. Regulators derailed  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s planned
$39 billion purchase of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile,
scrapping what would have been the biggest takeover of the year.  ‘Ups and Downs’  Last year “was really marked by pretty big ups and downs
in the M&A market, which tracks the ups and downs in business
confidence,” said Joseph Frumkin, managing partner of the
mergers and acquisitions practice at Sullivan & Cromwell.  Deal lawyers said they expect significant improvement
this year as companies sitting on large cash reserves will be
able to more easily obtain cheap financing.  “The arithmetic of deal-doing right now is fabulous,”
Profusek said. “The fundamentals are pretty good. We just
have to get out of this emotional slump.”  Sullivan & Cromwell worked on 131 completed and pending
deals for the year and half of the 10 largest, excluding the
AT&T-T-Mobile transaction. Among others handled by the firm is
 Kinder Morgan ’s $37.6 billion takeover of  El Paso Corp. (EP) , the
largest deal of the year, and  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) ’s proposed
$34.3 billion purchase of  Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS) , the
second-largest.  While companies will continue to do big deals
“opportunistically,” there are constraints in the leveraged
finance market to do acquisitions bigger than $10 billion,
Frumkin said.  ‘Bread and Butter’  “Overall you won’t see deals routinely at the size you saw
in 2007,” Frumkin said. “The bread and butter will be deals in
the $1 billion to $5 billion range.”  Eight of the top 10 legal advisers are U.S. firms. The
Americas accounted for about $1.1 trillion in deals compared
with $660.6 billion in Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa  and
$393.5 billion in the Asia Pacific, excluding  Japan . Japan
accounted for $105.3 billion in deals, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The collapse of the T-Mobile deal dropped New York-based
 Simpson Thacher & Bartlett (1139L)  LLP’s ranking. The firm, which led
among legal advisers in the third quarter, fell to No. 3.
 Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz (1347L)  and  Latham & Watkins LLP (1115L)  ranked
fourth and fifth, respectively. Wachtell jumped seven spots from
the previous year on $272.3 billion in deals, up from
$128.5 billion in 2010.  Private-Equity Deals  Simpson Thacher, the year’s No. 1 firm for private-equity
deals, advised on 177 transactions worth $273.9 billion,
according to the data.  The vitality of the high-yield debt financing market
remains a factor in doing leveraged deals, said Robert Spatt, a
partner at Simpson Thacher and an adviser to private-equity
firms including KKR & Co.  “As of year-end, the financing market was better than it
had been at some points during the year and not as good as
others,” Spatt said.  London-based  Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP (1002L) , which
fell three spots to number eight by market share, led among
cross-border announced deals, according to Bloomberg data.  “Law firms in general had a pretty good year,” Profusek
said. “The bankers are a little more depressed than the
lawyers’ side of M&A.”  Serious Threat  Upheaval in the European Union remains a serious threat to
corporate confidence, Profusek said. Many expected a strong
revival in the first half of the year when there were signs
“that the animal instincts had returned,” Profusek said. Deal-
making came to a halt in August and September particularly due
to the uncertainty in  Europe .  “The macro environment is really very good but we’ve had
this period of economic nail-biting,” Profusek said.
“Eventually we’re going to get tired of what Italy sold its
debt for yesterday. It can’t be a story forever.”  The specter of more aggressive antitrust enforcement could
also damp returning enthusiasm, lawyers said.  “I think the need for companies and their advisers to be
sensitive to a more active federal antitrust and approval
process is going to affect how people think about deals,”
Frumkin said. “In deals where those issues are raised you’re
going to have to give real consideration to the possibility that
the government won’t approve them.”  Gradual Improvement  The consensus for 2012 points to a gradual improvement in
deal-making with no huge jumps, said Stephen Arcano, head of the
New York mergers and acquisitions practice at  Skadden Arps (1112L) .  “I’m not big on the projection business, but based on what
appears to be an uptick in activity in the fourth quarter I
would be hopeful that carries over into 2012,” Arcano said.  Skadden benefited from business in health care with  Gilead
Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s $10.6 billion purchase of  Pharmasset Inc. (VRUS)  and
 Teva Pharmaceutical (TEVA)  Inc.’s $6.2 billion acquisition of Cephalon
Inc. Skadden advised on 234 deals for the year, participating in
about 13 percent of the market. Among firms acting as advisers
to buyers and sellers, Skadden ranked No. 1 globally.  In addition to its U.S. success, Skadden was the second-
biggest adviser in China last year, up from the eighth spot in
2010. The firm, which has Chinese and American lawyers in
offices in Beijing,  Shanghai  and  Hong Kong , competed with so-
called Magic Circle firms based in the U.K. to advise on a
number of transactions in that country across a range of
industries, Arcano said.  ‘Very Fortunate’  “We’ve been very fortunate,” Arcano said. “ China  has
been a vibrant market for us this past year.”  Beyond health-care transactions, 2012 will probably see
continued business in natural resources and energy, Frumkin and
Spatt said. Simpson opened an office in Houston in November to
help expand its energy practice, Spatt said.  “We saw so much activity in the energy space,” Spatt
said. “It made a difference to be there.”  The technology and medical devices sectors are also
expected to do well with a recovery in real estate, said Arcano
and Profusek, who predicted an increase in hostile takeovers.  “Expect a lot more shotgun-wedding kind of deals,”
Profusek said.  Companies flush with cash will be under shareholder
pressure to grow, and one way to do that is through
acquisitions, Profusek said. He added that targets may be
reluctant to sell and have to be pushed into mergers.  “In a post-financial crisis period we usually see a real
surge of hostile stuff, usually after a correction,” Profusek
said. “We haven’t had that yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  