-- Sun European Seeks More Chemical Assets After Buying Ineos Plant
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2012-01-05T07:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/sun-european-seeks-more-chemical-assets-after-buying-ineos-plant.html
Sun European Partners LLP, an
affiliate of Florida-based buyout firm Sun Capital Partners
Inc., said it’s seeking more chemical investments after buying a
plastics plant from a venture owned by  BASF SE (BAS)  and Ineos Group.  Sun European agreed to acquire Elix Polymers from
Styrolution on Dec. 30. BASF and Ineos are disposing of
Tarragona, Spain-based Elix to meet European Union antitrust
clearance terms for the merger of their styrene operations to
form Styrolution.  “There’s always a fair number of chemical deals in the
marketplace,” Brian Urbanek, a managing director at Sun
European Partners, said in a phone interview on Jan. 3. “We’re
always looking.”  The buyout firm’s chemical-making assets include Emerald
Performance Materials, a specialty-chemicals company acquired
from Lubrizol in 2006. Last year, Emerald bought a business from
Royal DSM NV to expand its range of additives and chemicals for
products used in personal-care, food and beverages.  Elix generates 200 million euros ($258 million) in annual
sales from acylonitrile butadiene styrene and related resins,
specializing in smaller batches to fit the requirements of
manufacturers of  consumer goods  and auto parts. Urbanek declined
to specify terms of the deal, saying only that the valuation was
“fair.”  “There may be some add-ons for Elix further down the
road,” Urbanek said.  The styrene business faces  competition (BWCHEM)  from  Asia  and
potentially also from the  Middle East  as manufacturers in those
regions expand beyond petrochemicals. Elix is still a “viable”
competitor, given its customer base, location and focus, the Sun
European executive said. Ineos was the prior owner of the site.  Sun Capital, formed in 1995 and based in  Boca Raton ,
 Florida , has invested in more than 280 companies with combined
sales topping $45 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  