-- Susquehanna Cuts 15% of Institutional-Brokerage Workers Amid Trading Slump
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s ,   L i b b y   S a l l a b e r r y   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-01-06T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/susquehanna-international-s-brokerage-cuts-30-of-200-employees.html
Susquehanna International Group LLP
eliminated 15 percent of the 200 jobs in its institutional
brokerage this week as  Wall Street  copes with the worst trading
environment since the 2008 financial crisis.  Susquehanna Financial Group, the closely held company’s
brokerage that specializes in equity options, cut its trading,
research and sales staff, according to David Pollard, the  Bala
Cynwyd , Pennsylvania-based firm’s head of strategic planning.
Most reductions were at the New York office, he said.  “It’s a difficult environment right now so we wanted to
right-size the firm to reflect the economic  conditions (CESIUSD) ,”
Pollard said in a phone interview yesterday. “We had to let a
lot of good people go and we’re disappointed about that.”  Optimism is fading on Wall Street after the industry posted
its worst trading and investment-banking period since the
financial crisis in the third quarter. The fourth quarter may
have been worse and equity trading revenue at U.S. banks will
fall 10 percent and investment-bank revenue probably was
unchanged,  David Trone , an analyst at JMP Securities, projected
in a Dec. 16 report.  Susquehanna’s staff is about twice the size it was two
years ago, and its analysts cover about 325 companies, triple
the level they did then, Pollard said. Susquehanna was founded
in 1987, according to the firm’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Libby Sallaberry in New York at 
 lsallaberry@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  