-- Swiss Franc Declines to Three-Week Low Versus Dollar; Hildebrand Will Stay
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-01-05T16:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/swiss-franc-declines-to-three-week-low-versus-dollar-hildebrand-will-stay.html
The Swiss franc fell to a three-week
low versus the dollar as Philipp Hildebrand said he’ll stay on
as central bank president and that he didn’t abuse his position
after his wife traded the two currencies in August.  “I acted not only according to the rules, but also in an
appropriate manner,” Hildebrand said today at a press
conference in Zurich. Kashya Hildebrand spent 400,000 francs to
buy $504,000 on Aug. 15, three weeks before the SNB capped the
currency at 1.20 euros, according to a report by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP that was released yesterday by the
central bank.  “Hildebrand has clearly set out to fight these allegations
tooth and nail but his opponents are unlikely to let this one
slide,” said Elizabeth Gregory, a market strategist at
Swissquote Bank SA in Geneva. “There’s likely to be a lot more
pressure for him to step down, but for the franc, the impact
should be limited. Most observers would agree that the euro
floor has been in the national benefit so it’s unlikely to be
challenged.”  The franc dropped 1.1 percent to 95.21 centimes per dollar
at 4:12 p.m. London time, after falling to 95.29 centimes before
the press conference began, the weakest since Dec. 15. The
currency was little changed at 1.2183 per euro after declining
to 1.2199 yesterday, the lowest since Dec. 29.  ‘Sensitive’ Transaction  The Aug. 15 trade, which Kashya Hildebrand carried out
without her husband’s knowledge, was described as “sensitive”
by the investigators. The PricewaterhouseCoopers probe was
commissioned by the SNB Bank Council, the central bank’s
supervisory body, which made a statement on Dec. 23, exonerating
Hildebrand and his family.  “I am not aware of any breach of laws. But I understand
that the public is having some questions,” Hildebrand said at
today’s press conference. He joined the central bank in 2003,
becoming its youngest ever policy maker, and took over as
president in January 2010.  Bank Sarasin & Cie. AG (BSAN) , a Basel, Switzerland-based private
bank, said in a Jan. 3  statement  it fired an employee who passed
data on the Hildebrand family’s currency trades to Christoph Blocher, vice president of the  Swiss People’s Party . Blocher
last year called on Hildebrand to resign after the SNB’s
currency transactions led to a record loss.  Switzerland ’s currency weakened against 11 of its 16 major
counterparts today, losing the most against the  Taiwan dollar ,
 U.S. dollar  and Mexican peso. The franc will fall to 98 centimes
per dollar by year-end, according to a Bloomberg survey.  The Swiss Trade Union Federation, the country’s largest
umbrella organization for labor unions, said today the central
bank should adjust the franc’s ceiling to 1.40 per euro to
combat a “looming recession.”  The Swiss economy may fail to expand this year, with
unemployment averaging 3.5 percent and consumer prices declining
an annual 0.4 percent, the Bern-based group said in a statement
on its website.  The “reasons for this gloomy outlook are the strongly
overvalued franc, the worsening global economic development and
waning purchasing power at home”, the group said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  