-- U.K. REITs’ Net Asset Values to Decline Through 2013, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-01-05T12:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/u-k-reits-net-asset-values-to-decline-through-2013-morgan-stanley-says.html
U.K. real estate investment trusts
will see net asset values decline 5 percent this year and 6
percent the next as stagnant credit markets hurt property
prices,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  analysts said in a research note.  U.K. commercial real estate values may fall 8 percent in
2012 and the amount of properties deemed “prime” will decrease
because of the dearth of financing, according to the Morgan
Stanley note on publicly traded real estate companies in Europe
dated Jan. 4.  “More and more banks are suspending new lending to
commercial property,” Morgan Stanley said. “It is highly
likely that property as an asset class will experience some
degree of re-pricing.”  European banks are shrinking their commercial property
portfolios to pare their balance sheets and meet stricter
capital requirements. Societe Generale SA and Eurohypo AG,
Commerzbank AG’s real estate arm, are among banks that stopped
making new loans, real estate adviser CBRE Group Inc. said last
month.  “The rapidly reducing availability of bank lending to
commercial property will drive a reclassification of what assets
are considered ‘prime’,” Bart Gysens, a Morgan Stanley analyst
in London who co-authored the note, said by e-mail. “Bank
lending is vital for the property market, but unfortunately in
the medium-term lending to commercial property is not a priority
for most.”  Upgrades  It’s possible that the lack of new lending is a temporary
phenomenon and that “meaningful” increase in money supply by
central banks could offset some of the negative effects, Morgan
Stanley said.  The New York-based bank said it has a favorable view of two
German companies specializing in residential real estate,
 Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWNI)  and  GSW Immobilien AG (GIB) , saying the companies’
“financing is sound and stock valuation remains undemanding.”
It also said it likes companies focused on London.  Land Securities Group Plc (LAND) , the U.K.’s largest real estate
investment trust, and  British Land Co. (BLND) , the second-largest, were
raised to “equal weight” because the pricing of their assets
is realistic.  Great Portland Estates Plc (GPOR) , a developer focused on
London’s West End, was raised to “overweight” because of its
favorable debt-to-equity ratio and its potential to deliver
better returns from development.  Publicly traded companies in continental Europe will see
net asset values decline 11 percent this year and performance
will be unchanged in 2013, Morgan Stanley said. Commercial
property values in the euro zone, excluding Germany, could fall
by as much as 15 percent this year, as the lack of finance hurts
the industry.  Morgan Stanley said it’s less positive about France’s
property companies, citing a continued rise in bank lending as a
portion of total lending, meaning the banks may have to
deleverage. It cut  Gecina SA (GFC)  to “equal weight” from
“overweight.”  Klépierre (LI)  and  Foncière des Régions (FDR)  were
downgraded to “underweight” from “equal weight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 