-- U.K. Tax Dodging, Banker Bonuses Attacked by Cameron and Clegg
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-01-05T11:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/u-k-tax-dodging-banker-bonuses-attacked-by-cameron-and-clegg.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and
his Liberal Democrat deputy  Nick Clegg  launched separate attacks
on tax dodging and banker bonuses, seeking to deflect criticism
with unemployment at a 17-year high.  Cameron told a question-and-answer session with business
people in Maidenhead, Southeast England, today that he wanted
authorities to take “a tougher approach” to companies that
hire lawyers and accountants to help cut tax bills. He added
that the government was looking at anti-avoidance legislation.  Clegg earlier used a radio interview to attack “crony
capitalism.” Asked whether the coalition government had seen
his party give way to Cameron’s Conservatives on too many
issues, he said it was the Liberal Democrats who were leading on
calls to clamp down on “unacceptable excess in executive pay,”
one of the themes of Cameron’s New Year message.  “It’s Liberal Democrats who’ve led the debate on clamping
down on bankers’ bonuses and we must be just as tough this year
in the bonus season that’s coming up as we were last year, if
not more so,” Clegg said.  Starting the year on the same message contrasted with the
end of 2011 when the two leaders fell out over Cameron’s refusal
to join the European Union effort to end the debt crisis in the
euro area. Clegg refused to attend Cameron’s statement in
Parliament on the negotiations.  On tax, Clegg said lawyer Graham Aaronson had produced a
report for the Treasury showing “a general anti-abuse rule in
the tax system is feasible.”  Cameron said businesses should keep in mind that “we’re
cutting the rate of tax so companies can come and invest in
Britain, locate in Britain. It’s then incumbent on companies to
say we’ve got a low rate of tax and we should pay that tax.”  Tax Failures  Prodding companies on taxes comes with the jobless rate at
8.3 percent. The 2.64 million unemployed were the most since 1994.  A House of Commons report last month criticized “specific
and systemic” failures at Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs,
which allowed big companies to avoid paying what they owed.
David Hartnett, the agency’s top official, is stepping down this
month.  The prime minister used his Jan. 2 New Year message to
pledge action on “excess” in pay in the finance sector.
Liberal Democrat Business Secretary Vince Cable said in
September that he wanted general curbs on high pay.  Options under consideration include giving shareholders a
binding vote on pay and putting employees on company
remuneration committees. While Cable has ruled out setting
limits on compensation, he’s also looking at stiffening
reporting requirements for listed companies, including requiring
the publication of how much each board member gets and details
of performance-related bonuses.  A stand-off between banks and the government over banker
pay led to the “Project Merlin” negotiations that culminated
in a February agreement that  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,  Barclays
Plc (BARC) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
would pay lower bonuses to U.K. staff than the previous year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net  or
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 