-- U.K. Opposes Pre-Emptive Strike on Iran, Will Act If Strait of Hormuz Shut
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-01-05T17:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/u-k-warns-iran-over-threat-to-strait-of-hormuz.html
The U.K. doesn’t back a pre-emptive
strike on  Iran  over its nuclear program, Defense Secretary
Philip Hammond said even as he warned that Britain may take
military action if the Islamic republic carries out its threat
to block the Strait of Hormuz.  Any attempt by Iran to close the strategically important
waterway in retaliation for sanctions against its oil exports
would be “illegal and unsuccessful” and the  Royal Navy  will
join any action to keep it open, Hammond said in a speech to the
Atlantic Council in Washington today.  “We would not favor a pre-emptive strike. We are very
clear that we need to maintain the pressure” on Iran to make it
more costly to pursue nuclear weapons, Hammond said in a
question-and-answer session after the speech. “Any pre-emptive
strike clearly is abandoning the engagement program.”  Iran will block the strait if sanctions are imposed on its
crude-oil exports in an attempt to force it to abandon the
nuclear program, Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said Dec.
27. Britain and  France  are pressing the European Union to impose
an embargo on Iranian oil imports when foreign ministers meet on
Jan. 30, though Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  queried the
scope and timing in comments published today.  “Certainly on our side and the U.S. side, great care will
be taken that any response to any provocation is very measured
and that there isn’t an accidental escalation,” Hammond said.
“Of course what we cannot answer for is whether there is a plan
on the other side to escalate.”  Oil Prices  The new tensions between Iran and the West have contributed
to higher energy prices. Brent oil for February settlement rose
as high as $114.64 a barrel, the highest intraday level since
Nov. 14, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange today.  About 15.5 million barrels of oil a day, or a sixth of
global consumption, flows through the  Strait of Hormuz , between
Iran and Oman at the mouth of the  Persian Gulf , according to the
U.S. Department of Energy. The Royal Navy will continue to play
a “substantial” role in the combined maritime force to help
maintain freedom of navigation, Hammond said in his speech.  “Our joint naval presence in the  Arabian Gulf , something
our regional partners very much appreciate, is key to keeping
the Straits of Hormuz open for international trade,” Hammond
said. “Disruption to the flow of oil through the Straits of
Hormuz would threaten regional and global economic growth,” he
said, arguing that “it is in all our interests that the
arteries of global trade are kept free, open and running.”  F-35 Program  Hammond said he is using his trip to Washington, including
a meeting with U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta , to get a
clearer picture of the effects of the new U.S. defense strategy
on  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program.  The U.K. has ordered the aircraft carrier-variant of the
fighter and Hammond spoke of the apparent absurdity of Britain’s
decision, forced by budget constraints, to build new ships
without having planes to fly from them initially.  “We are already under some pressure from public opinion in
the U.K. over the fact that we’re going to have built and
launched carriers some years before we have any aircraft to fly
off them. Really, it’s a caricaturist’s dream, isn’t it?”
Hammond said. “The prospect of any further delays of the
carrier variant would be of concern to us.”  Asked about reports that the revised U.S. strategy might
involve cuts in American forces stationed in  Europe , Hammond
said, “of course, reductions in U.S. troop numbers are not
going to be welcomed by European allies in the alliance.”  Budget Pressures  Still, European members of NATO understand budget
pressures and the need to address new security challenges such
as those in  Asia  with the rise of  China ’s military, he said.  “Europe needs to respond in a mature way, not in a
histrionic way,” Hammond said. European nations need to work
with the U.S. and make the case “for continuing the Atlantic
alliance, even while recognizing that some of the new strategic
challenges are elsewhere in the world.”  Hammond had used his speech to criticize other European
members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization for not being
willing to commit resources to joint operations, including in
Libya and  Afghanistan .  “Too many countries are failing to meet their financial
responsibilities to NATO, and so failing to maintain appropriate
and proportionate capabilities,” he said. “Too many are opting
out of operations or contributing but a fraction of what they
should be capable of. This is a European problem, not an
American one. And it is a political problem, not a military
one.”  Hammond reconfirmed previous assessments by British and
American defense officials that the debt crisis “should be
considered the greatest strategic threat to the future security
of our nations.”  “Without strong economies and stable public finances, it is
impossible to build and sustain, in the long term, the military
capability required to project power and maintain defense,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  