-- U.K. Services Industries Surge May Help Britain Avoid a Recession: Economy
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-01-05T16:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/u-k-services-surge-may-help-britain-avoid-a-return-to-recession-economy.html
Service industries  in the U.K. grew
at the fastest pace in five months in December and strengthened
in the U.S., suggesting their economies are partly withstanding
the euro-area debt crisis.  A gauge of U.K. services activity based on the survey of
 purchasing managers (PMITSUK)  rose to 54 from 52.1 in November, Markit
Economics and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply 
said today in London. A U.S. services index rose to 52.6 in
December from 52 the previous month.  The data suggest the U.K. economy strengthened in December
after surveys earlier this week showed construction and
manufacturing improved. Still, the euro-area crisis is clouding
the outlook for the global recovery. The  Bank of England  said
today banks may toughen loan terms because of the debt turmoil,
hampering growth, while some Federal Reserve officials have said
prospective economic conditions may warrant “additional policy
accommodation.”  “There is still life in the U.K. economy,” said  James Knightley , an economist at ING Group in London. “Nonetheless,
the U.K. is still very vulnerable to the euro-zone sovereign
debt crisis given trade, financial and confidence linkages.
Furthermore, confidence remains weak.”  U.S. Improvement  The median forecast of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News was for the U.K. services gauge to fall to 51.5. Services
account for about 75 percent of the economy and a measure above
50 indicates expansion. Euro-area services and manufacturing
output contracted less than initially estimated in December, led
by  Germany , a report showed yesterday.  In the U.S., the median forecast of 65 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s index of  non-manufacturing industries (NAPMNMI) , which
account for about 90 percent of the economy, to rise to 53. The
survey’s employment gauge rose to 49.4 in December from 48.9.  Another report showed first-time claims for jobless
benefits declined 15,000 last week to 372,000. The average over
the past four weeks fell to the lowest in more than three years.  Signs of economic resilience have helped to lift equities.
The  S&P 500 Index  has surged 16 percent from last year’s lowest
level on Oct. 3.  Europe ’s  Stoxx 600 Index (SXXP)  is up 15 percent from
its 2011 low on Sept. 22.  Gloom Remains  In  Australia , the services industry shrank for a third
straight month as  consumer spending  weakened amid global
financial turmoil spurred by Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, a
survey showed today.  Markit said in a separate statement that faster growth in
U.K. construction and services last month wasn’t enough for
Britain’s economy to expand in the fourth quarter,  with gross
domestic product (UKGRABIQ)  forecast to have stagnated. Its composite gauge
for manufacturing, services and construction recorded its
weakest expansion since the second quarter of 2009 in the final
three months of the year.  Today’s services report “significantly boosts hopes that
the economy managed to avoid contracting,” said  Howard Archer ,
chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in  London . Still,
“with manufacturing output clearly contracting in the fourth
quarter and construction output likely to have expanded
modestly, we suspect that gross domestic product was essentially
flat.”  The outlook for both companies and households may darken
further this year, with a Bank of England survey today showing
that U.K. banks expect to toughen “credit-scoring criteria” on
new mortgages and tighten covenants on loans to large and
medium-sized companies. Developments in the euro area “and
their impact on banks’ funding conditions would be a key
determinant of credit availability over the coming quarter,” it
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  