-- Apartment Vacancies in U.S. Decline to a Decade Low as Rental Rates Climb
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-01-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/u-s-apartment-vacancies-decline-to-a-decade-low-of-5-2-rents-increase.html
U.S. apartment vacancies dropped to a
10-year low in the fourth quarter, allowing for rent increases
that are likely to continue this year,  Reis Inc. (REIS)  said.  The vacancy rate fell to 5.2 percent, the lowest since the
end of 2001, the New York-based property research firm said in a
report today. It was 5.6 percent in the previous three months
and 6.6 percent a year earlier. The average monthly effective
rent, or what tenants paid after landlord giveaways, climbed 2.3
percent from a year earlier to $1,009, Reis said.  Rising  foreclosures (HOMFREO)  and stricter mortgage-lending standards
have helped make rental housing the best-performing segment of
commercial real estate for the past two years. The vacancy rate
has fallen for seven straight quarters from a three-decade high
of 8 percent at the end of 2009, according to Reis.  “With the strong occupancy we had this year, we were
really able to push rents,” said Lori Mason Curran, director of
real estate investment strategy for the property arm of Seattle-
based  Vulcan Inc. , which owns more than 500 units in the city
that are more than 97 percent leased.  Hiring by local employers including Amazon.com Inc. and
Microsoft Corp. drove tenant demand, enabling Vulcan to increase
leasing fees 6 percent to 8 percent in 2011, Mason Curran said.
 Seattle ’s average effective rent rose 2.7 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, according to Reis.  ‘Optimistic’ Landlord  Vulcan was started by Paul Allen, the billionaire co-
founder of Microsoft. It is preparing to break ground on almost
500 units in Seattle this quarter, Mason Curran said.  “We’re pretty optimistic about the  apartment (BBREAPT)  market,” she
said in a telephone interview. Seattle’s rents may climb 5
percent to 7 percent this year, according to Mason Curran.  U.S. landlords’ asking rents rose to $1,064 from $1,043 on
average a year earlier and $1,059 in the previous three months,
according to the Reis report. Effective rents were little
changed from the third quarter’s $1,004.  “The implicit demand for rental units will remain high as
long as the for-sale housing market remains on the ropes,”
Victor Calanog, head of research and economics for Reis, said in
the report.  Rent growth may stall starting next year as a wave of new
apartment development brings new projects to the market, Calanog
said. Multifamily construction is rebounding from a 50-year low
reached in 2009, according to U.S. Census Bureau figures.  New Construction  “The sector is benefiting from some of the lowest figures
for new  construction (NHSPSM)  on record,” Calanog said. “By 2013, the
influx of new units may begin eroding any benefit the sector
derives from tight supply conditions.”  A total of 8,865 new units became available in the fourth
quarter, the second-fewest for any three-month period in Reis
records dating to 1999. The first quarter of 2011 had the fewest
units, at 7,473.  For all of 2011, 37,678 units were completed, the lowest
annual total in 31 years of Reis data. The previous record was
49,303 in 1993 during the savings and loan crisis.  Landlords saw a net gain in occupied space of 50,559 units
in the fourth quarter, down from 58,238 units a year earlier and
up from 36,818 units in the previous three months.  “The fourth quarter tends to be a weaker leasing period,
given that most households make moving decisions in the second
and third quarters, but the apartment sector exceeded
expectations once again,” Calanog said.  Lowest Vacancies  New Haven ,  Connecticut , home to  Yale University , had the
nation’s lowest vacancy rate, followed by  New York ;  Minneapolis ;
 Portland ,  Oregon ; and San Jose,  California , according to Reis.  Effective rents rose the most for the year in  San Francisco 
and San Jose, which have had a resurgence in hiring by
technology companies. Chattanooga,  Tennessee ; Austin,  Texas ; and
New York followed.  “The fact that  New York City  does not top the list either
in terms of tightest vacancies or the strongest rent growth
reflects how one of the largest rental markets in the U.S. has
been buffeted by economic headwinds,” Calanog said. With job
cuts by financial firms during the second half and the nation’s
highest average effective rent, $2,876, “even New York
landlords are finding it difficult to raise rents further,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at   dtaub@bloomberg.net  