-- U.S. Rail Regulator Deceived Congress, California’s Denham Says
-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 2012-01-05T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/u-s-rail-regulator-deceived-congress-california-s-denham-says.html
The top U.S. railroad regulator was
accused by a House member from  California  of misleading Congress
to promote the state’s proposed high-speed train network, which
President Barack Obama’s administration supports as cost
estimates escalate.  Representative Jeff Denham, a Republican, yesterday
released a letter from California’s top legislative analyst to
Federal Railroad Administrator Joseph Szabo saying the regulator
“egregiously misstated the facts” in telling a House committee
hearing Dec. 15 that his agency had “not one conversation”
with analysts reviewing the rail project.  A panel sponsored by the California legislature on Jan. 3
recommended the state not proceed with the sale of $2.7 billion
in bonds to start building the 800-mile network, now projected
to cost $98.5 billion.  “This is one more example of how the administration wants
this project at any cost,” Denham said in a  news release  on his
website. “What else does the FRA know that they are hiding from
taxpayers?”  The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee on
Jan. 3 asked the railroad administration to turn over all
records of its communications with the California Legislative
Analyst’s Office, a nonpartisan group that provides fiscal and
policy advice to state lawmakers. In May, the office  criticized 
the California High-Speed Rail Authority’s management of the
project and raised concerns that the state hadn’t secured most
of the needed money.  ‘Staff-Level Conversations’  Szabo voiced concerns that legislative analysts didn’t
consult with agency leaders as they worked on their report about
the rail project, Michael Murray, a spokesman for the U.S.
Department of Transportation, said in an e-mail yesterday.  While there were “staff-level conversations” regarding
program guidance and environmental rules, the California
analysts “never contacted federal FRA leadership for input on
the project as a whole,” Murray said.  California’s proposed 220-mile-per-hour service connecting
the San Francisco Bay area and  Los Angeles  is the only U.S.
project that proposes to operate trains at speeds comparable to
those in Europe and  Asia .  The project is flawed by a lack of long-term funding
commitments, the Jan. 3 report by the California High-Speed Rail
Peer Review Group said. Demand forecasts haven’t been subjected
to external review and management resources are inadequate, the
report said. California’s legislature created the independent
group to evaluate the rail plan’s feasibility.  Cost Estimates  The state’s rail authority in November more than doubled
the project’s estimated cost, to $98.5 billion from $43 billion,
and said construction would take 13 years longer than initial
projections to finish.  U.S. Representative  Kevin McCarthy , a California
Republican, and 11 other Republican House members wrote to the
U.S. Government Accountability Office last month requesting a
study of the project’s cost, ridership projections and
viability. Eleven Democratic representatives from California on
Jan. 3 also requested a GAO study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  