-- U.S., Canada, Mexico Get Extra Two Months to Appeal WTO Ruling on Labeling
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-01-05T15:29:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/u-s-canada-mexico-get-extra-two-months-to-appeal-wto-ruling-on-labeling.html
The  World Trade Organization  gave the
U.S.,  Canada  and  Mexico  an extra two months to decide whether to
appeal a November ruling that found American country-of-origin
labeling provisions unfairly hurt agricultural commerce.  The three governments now have until March 23 to challenge
judges’ finding that U.S. requirements for food processors to
identify the nations from which cattle, hogs and some fresh
produce originate break global trade rules, the WTO said in a
statement in Geneva today.  Canada and Mexico had argued that the provisions impose
unfair costs on their exports, reducing their competitiveness.
They lodged their complaints in December 2008, disputing
provisions of the U.S. Food, Conservation and Energy Act that
impose mandatory country-of-origin labeling for beef,  pork (BOXPC185) ,
chicken, lamb and goat as well as some perishables sold by
American retailers.  The requests to extend the deadline, initially set for Jan.
18, were made in light of the WTO Appellate Body’s current
workload, according to documents submitted by the three
governments to the Geneva-based trade arbiter.  The Nov. 18 ruling on country-of-origin labeling, known as
COOL, may affect as many as 70 other WTO members, including the
European Union, that have mandatory labeling requirements.
Compulsory country-of-origin labeling in the EU applies to beef,
fruit and vegetables, honey and olive oil.  The 27-nation EU, which has said it plans to extend the
rules to fresh pig, sheep and goat meat as well as poultry, said
after the WTO ruling that it was analyzing the panel report “to
see what the implications are for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  