-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Jan. 3 (Text)
-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 2012-01-05T13:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-jan-3-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  Weekly Weather Summary: For much of the nation, 2011 ended on a
mild, dry note.  An exception was the Northwest, where heavy
precipitation and high winds occurred during the closing days of
2011.  The early days of the New Year featured additional mild,
dry weather in many areas, although sharply colder air invaded
the Great Lakes and Eastern States.  The Southeast: Dry weather returned at the end of 2011, followed
by a wintry blast early in the New Year.  Significant
precipitation continued to bypass the central Gulf Coast region,
where some extreme drought (D3) was introduced, and the southern
Atlantic region, where abnormal dryness (D0) and moderate
drought (D1) was expanded slightly.  Peninsular Florida’s first
significant freeze of the season struck on the night of January
3-4, aggravating the effects of short-term dryness for some
types of vegetation.  Moderate drought crept northward in
eastern  North Carolina , while short-term dryness developed as
far north as the Delmarva Peninsula.  Southern and Central Plains: Mild, dry weather on the Plains
melted any remaining snow cover.  In fact, a winter ?heat wave?
arrived on New Year’s Eve across the central and southern Plains,
where record highs for December 31 included 83F in Childress,
Texas, and 66F in Topeka,  Kansas .  Following a relatively wet
finish to 2011, the return of warm, dry weather to the nation’s
southern tier could be suggestive of an increasingly La Nina-
driven atmospheric regime.  If true, a return to dryness would
not be favorable for the south-central U.S., where long-term
drought retains a grip.  For example, 80% of the rangeland and
pastures in  Texas  remain in very poor to poor condition,
according to an early-January report by the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture .  Northern Plains and Midwest: Unseasonably mild weather continued
into the New Year.  Enough precipitation fell in some areas to
stave off further expansion of drought, but more abnormal
dryness (D0) was introduced in western  North Dakota .  High
temperatures remained at record-setting levels in the north-
central U.S., with Bismarck, North Dakota (55F on January 3),
among a large number of stations reporting daily-record highs in
early 2012.  The Southwest: The drought depiction remained virtually
unchanged in the Southwest, as the return of dry weather
followed a period of beneficial rain and snow.  California , the Intermountain West, and the Northwest:
Precipitation totals topped 8 inches in some locations from the
Oregon coast to the Cascades.  Moisture spread as far inland as
the northern Rockies, where 2- to 4-inch totals were common.
The heavy precipitation prevented further expansion of abnormal
dryness (D0) into the Northwest.  In contrast, California’s key
watershed and agricultural areas received little or no
precipitation.  Reservoir storage was not yet a concern in
California, but the state’s rangeland and pastures continued to
suffer from the combination of December freezes and a lack of
moisture. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture,
California’s ?rangeland conditions had started to deteriorate
due to lack of rains; wetter weather was needed to sustain
current conditions.?  Furthermore, supplemental feeding of
livestock continued [in California].  Abnormal dryness (D0) and
moderate drought (D1) were broadly expanded in northern and
central California and much of  Nevada .  Numerous locations,
including Salinas and Fresno, California, and Reno and Elko,
Nevada, set December records for dryness.  Not a single drop of
precipitation fell in Eureka, Nevada, and Fresno during December
for the first time since 1989.  Reno experienced its first
completely dry December since 1883.  Salt Lake City ,  Utah ,
received monthly precipitation totaling just 0.03 inch, breaking
a December record established in 1976.  Farther east, short-term
dryness (D0) was introduced in part of northern  Colorado , west
of the Continental Divide.  Hawaii : Quiet weather returned by the end of 2011, following a
relatively wet December.  As a result, no changes were
introduced.  On the Big Island, Hilo’s December rainfall totaled
20.26 inches (175% of normal).  Looking Ahead: During the next 5 days (January 5-9), warmth
expanding eastward from the western and central U.S. will
gradually displace cold air in the East.  Some light
precipitation will fall across the Southeast and from the Great
Lakes region into northern  New England .  Elsewhere, significant
precipitation will be limited to the Pacific Northwest and the
northern Rockies.  Some light precipitation may occur toward the
end of the period in the Great Basin and the Southwest.  The CPC 6- to 10-day outlook for January 10-14 calls for near-
to above-normal temperatures across the contiguous U.S., except
for cooler-than-normal conditions in the southern Atlantic
region. Meanwhile, below-normal precipitation from California to
the central and southern Plains will contrast with wetter-than-
normal weather in parts of the Southeast and across the nation’s
northern tier.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  