-- U.S. Container Trade Rises at Fastest Pace Since May on Housing Recovery
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e   a n d   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-01-05T10:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/u-s-container-trade-rises-at-fastest-since-may.html
U.S. imports of containerized goods
rose the most in six months in November as a recovering housing
market bolstered consumer demand, according to The Journal of
Commerce/PIERS, which tracks volumes through ports.  Seaborne imports advanced 5 percent from a year earlier to
1.49 million 20-foot boxes, the biggest jump since May, the
 Newark , New Jersey-based company said in a statement today.
Shipments of furniture, which account for about 10 percent of
the total, gained 7 percent.  Existing (ETSLTOTL)  home sales rose 4 percent to 4.42 million units in
November, while purchases of new single-family houses gained for
a third consecutive month, according to data from the National
Association of Realtors and the Census Bureau. The world’s
largest economy expanded 2.75 percent in the fourth quarter, its
fastest pace since the three months to June 2010, according to
the median of 68 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are getting good signals again for the  U.S. economy ,”
Rahul Kapoor, an analyst for investment bank RS Platou Markets
AS in  Singapore , said by phone today. “We are seeing the U.S.
housing market improve with a subsequent increase in demand for
household goods and furnishings, so it’s a definite positive for
containerized imports.”  Hauling Costs  The cost of hauling goods in 40-foot equivalent boxes to
the U.S. from  China  jumped 19 percent to $1,692 a box in the
last week of December, the largest advance since at least June
2010, according to data from Clarkson Securities Ltd., a unit of
the world’s largest shipbroker.  Imports from the Asian country in November rose for the
first time in eight months, led by demand for cooking and
heating appliances, lamps and kitchenware, PIERS said.  The acceleration means greater demand for vessel owners
including  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB)  and Neptune Orient Lines Ltd.  “A healthy housing market is key to the revival of U.S.
containerized imports growth,” Mario Moreno, a PIERS economist,
wrote in the statement. “The question is: are we seeing a self-
sustained recovery in home sales? We are not there yet, but
getting closer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net ;
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  