-- U.S. December ISM Non-Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-01-05T15:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/u-s-december-ism-non-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S. non-
manufacturing conditions from the Institute for Supply
Management.  December 2011 Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business  NMI at 52.6%  Business Activity Index at 56.2% New Orders Index at 53.2%
Employment Index at 49.4%  Economic activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in
December for the 25th consecutive month, say the nation’s
purchasing and supply executives in the latest Non-Manufacturing
ISM Report On Business.  The report was issued today by  Anthony Nieves , C.P.M., CFPM,
chair of the Institute for Supply Management Non-Manufacturing
Business Survey Committee. “The NMI registered 52.6 percent in
December, 0.6 percentage point higher than the 52 percent
registered in November, and indicating continued growth at a
slightly faster rate in the non-manufacturing sector. The Non-
Manufacturing Business Activity Index registered 56.2 percent,
which is the same reading as reported in November, reflecting
growth for the 29th consecutive month. The New Orders Index
increased by 0.2 percentage point to 53.2 percent. The
Employment Index increased 0.5 percentage point to 49.4 percent,
indicating contraction in employment for the third time in the
last four months. The Prices Index decreased 1.3 percentage
points to 61.2 percent, indicating prices increased at a slower
rate in December when compared to November. According to the NMI,
11 non-manufacturing industries reported growth in December.
Respondents’ comments are mixed and vary by industry and company.
Economic growth continues to be slowed by the lag in
employment.”  INDUSTRY PERFORMANCE (Based on the NMI) The 11 non-manufacturing
industries reporting growth in December based on the NMI
composite index -- listed in order -- are: Retail Trade;
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; Finance &
Insurance; Information; Construction; Other Services; Wholesale
Trade; Public Administration; Educational Services; Mining; and
Transportation & Warehousing. The seven industries reporting
contraction in December -- listed in order -- are: Agriculture,
Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Management of Companies & Support
Services; Health Care & Social Assistance; Real Estate, Rental &
Leasing; Accommodation & Food Services; Utilities; and Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation.  WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING ...
•“Year-end uptick in activity.” (Finance & Insurance)
•“Business is stabilizing -- some good signs in the private
sector for commercial construction.” (Construction)
•“Some additional proposal requests, but clients continue to
delay decisions on  capital spending . Expect first quarter 2012
activity to be sluggish.” (Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services)
•“Automotive industry growth seems to be outpacing the rest of
the economy.” (Information)
•“Demand increasing gradually.” (Wholesale Trade)
•“Business is holding steady. Outlook for December and first
quarter 2012 is good.” (Retail Trade)  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP / DOWN IN PRICE, and IN SHORT SUPPLY
Commodities Up in Price Coffee; #1 Diesel Fuel; #2 Diesel Fuel
(2); Food Products (2); Gloves (2); Medical Supplies;
Professional Labor; Protein; and Steel.  Commodities Down in Price Fuel (2); and Gasoline.  Commodities in Short Supply #2 Diesel Fuel is the only commodity
reported in short supply.  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item.  DECEMBER 2011 NON-MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES  NMI In December, the NMI registered 52.6 percent, indicating
continued growth in the non-manufacturing sector for the 25th
consecutive month. A reading above 50 percent indicates the non-
manufacturing sector economy is generally expanding; below 50
percent indicates the non-manufacturing sector is generally
contracting.  NMI HISTORY Month NMI Month NMI Dec 2011 52.6 Jun 2011 53.3 Nov
2011 52.0 May 2011 54.6 Oct 2011 52.9 Apr 2011 52.8 Sep 2011
53.0 Mar 2011 57.3 Aug 2011 53.3 Feb 2011 59.7 Jul 2011 52.7 Jan
2011 59.4 Average for 12 months - 54.5 High - 59.7 Low - 52.0  Business Activity ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Business Activity
Index in December registered 56.2 percent, the same percent
registered in November. Eleven industries reported increased
business activity, and six industries reported decreased
activity for the month of December. Comments from respondents
include: “End of year spending with remaining budgets” and
“Seasonal increases, but no significant increases beyond that.”  The industries reporting growth of business activity in December
-- listed in order -- are: Retail Trade; Other Services;
Information; Finance & Insurance; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Educational Services; Mining; Public
Administration; Construction; Wholesale Trade; and Accommodation
& Food Services. The industries reporting decreased business
activity in December -- listed in order -- are: Agriculture,
Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Management of Companies & Support
Services; Utilities; Health Care & Social Assistance;
Transportation & Warehousing; and Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation.  New Orders
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing New Orders Index grew in December for
the 29th consecutive month. The index registered 53.2 percent,
an increase of 0.2 percentage point from the 53 percent reported
in November. Comments from respondents include: “Increased
requisitions” and “Year-end spending requests.”  The 10 industries reporting growth of new orders in December --
listed in order -- are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Retail
Trade; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
Information; Other Services; Finance & Insurance; Wholesale
Trade; Public Administration; Construction; and Utilities. The
four industries reporting contraction of new orders in December
are: Transportation & Warehousing; Health Care & Social
Assistance; Management of Companies & Support Services; and
Accommodation & Food Services.  Employment
Employment activity in the non-manufacturing sector contracted
in December for the third time in four months, as ISM’s Non-
Manufacturing Employment Index registered 49.4 percent. This
reflects an increase of 0.5 percentage point when compared to
the 48.9 percent registered in November. Six industries reported
increased employment, nine industries reported decreased
employment, and three industries reported unchanged employment
compared to November. Comments from respondents include:
“Retirees not being replaced” and “Still in holding pattern;
positions are available, but are not being filled.”  The industries reporting an increase in employment in December -
- listed in order -- are: Transportation & Warehousing; Retail
Trade; Wholesale Trade; Utilities; Construction; and Finance &
Insurance. The industries reporting a reduction in employment in
December -- listed in order -- are: Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Agriculture, Forestry,
Fishing & Hunting; Accommodation & Food Services; Management of
Companies & Support Services; Health Care & Social Assistance;
Other Services; Mining; and Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services.  Supplier Deliveries
The Supplier Deliveries Index registered 51.5 percent in
December, 1.5 percentage points higher than the 50 percent
registered in November, indicating that supplier deliveries were
slower in December. A reading above 50 percent indicates slower
deliveries.  The seven industries reporting slower deliveries in December --
listed in order -- are: Transportation & Warehousing; Mining;
Accommodation & Food Services; Construction; Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services; Health Care & Social
Assistance; and Public Administration. The five industries
reporting faster supplier deliveries in December are:
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Retail Trade;
Utilities; Information; and Wholesale Trade. Six industries
reported no change in supplier deliveries in December compared
to November.  Inventories
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Inventories Index contracted in December
after one month of growth. The index registered 48.5 percent,
which is 4 percentage points lower than the 52.5 percent reading
that was reported in November. Of the total respondents in
December, 24 percent indicated they do not have inventories or
do not measure them. Comments from respondents include: “Annual
[reduction] to get inventories down before taxes” and “Reducing
excess to optimize inventory.”  The four industries reporting an increase in inventories in
December are: Retail Trade; Mining; Information; and
Accommodation & Food Services. The eight industries reporting
decreases in inventories in December -- listed in order -- are:
Other Services; Construction; Utilities; Transportation &
Warehousing; Finance & Insurance; Health Care & Social
Assistance; Public Administration; and Professional, Scientific
& Technical Services.  Prices
Prices paid by non-manufacturing organizations for purchased
materials and services increased at a slower rate in December.
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Prices Index for December registered
61.2 percent, 1.3 percentage points lower than the 62.5 percent
reported in November. In December, the percentage of respondents
reporting higher prices is 23 percent, the percentage indicating
no change in prices paid is 70 percent, and 7 percent of the
respondents reported lower prices.  Twelve non-manufacturing industries reported an increase in
prices paid, in the following order: Wholesale Trade;
Information; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services; Health Care & Social
Assistance; Educational Services; Other Services; Mining;
Accommodation & Food Services; Utilities; Construction; and
Finance & Insurance. The two industries reporting a decrease in
prices paid are: Retail Trade; and Management of Companies &
Support Services.  Backlog of Orders
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Backlog of Orders Index contracted in
December for the sixth time in seven months. The index
registered 45.5 percent, 2.5 percentage points lower than the 48
percent reported in November. Of the total respondents in
December, 37 percent indicated they do not measure backlog of
orders.  The two industries reporting an increase in order backlogs in
December are: Transportation & Warehousing; and Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services. The six industries reporting
lower backlog of orders in December -- listed in order -- are:
Management of Companies & Support Services; Health Care & Social
Assistance; Information; Finance & Insurance; Public
Administration; and Wholesale Trade. Nine industries reported no
change in order backlogs for the month of December compared to
November.  New Export Orders
Orders and requests for services and other non-manufacturing
activities to be provided outside of the  United States  by
domestically based personnel grew in December for the fifth
consecutive month. The New Export Orders Index for December
registered 51 percent, which is 4.5 percentage points lower than
the 55.5 percent reported in November. Of the total respondents
in December, 71 percent indicated they either do not perform, or
do not separately measure, orders for work outside of the United
States.  The five industries reporting an increase in new export orders
in December are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Construction;
Mining; Transportation & Warehousing; and Other Services. The
three industries reporting a decrease in export orders in
December are: Accommodation & Food Services; Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services; and Wholesale Trade. Seven
industries reported no change in new export orders in December
compared to November.  Imports
The ISM Non-Manufacturing Imports Index grew in December after
three months of contraction. The index registered 54 percent,
which is 5.5 percentage points higher than the 48.5 percent
reported in November. Sixty percent of respondents reported that
they do not use, or do not track, the use of imported materials.  The six industries reporting an increase in the use of imports
in December -- listed in order -- are: Information; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Retail Trade; Construction;
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; and Wholesale
Trade. The only industry reporting a decrease in imports for the
month of December is Management of Companies & Support Services.
Eleven industries reported no change in imports for the month of
December compared to November.  Inventory Sentiment
The ISM Non-Manufacturing Inventory Sentiment Index in December
registered 59.5 percent, which is 3.5 percentage points lower
than the 63 percent reported in November. This indicates that
respondents believe their inventories are still too high at this
time. In December, 26 percent of respondents said their
inventories were too high, 7 percent said their inventories were
too low, and 67 percent said their inventories were about right.  The nine industries reporting a feeling that their inventories
are too high in December -- listed in order -- are: Management
of Companies & Support Services; Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; Utilities; Other Services; Mining; Finance &
Insurance; Public Administration; Health Care & Social
Assistance; and Wholesale Trade. The two industries reporting
that their inventories are too low in December are: Retail
Trade; and Construction.  About this Report
The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of non-
manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures. Use
of the data is in the public domain and should be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report
On Business is based on data compiled from purchasing and supply
executives nationwide. Membership of the Non-Manufacturing
Business Survey Committee is diversified by NAICS, based on each
industry’s contribution to gross domestic product (GDP). The
Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee responses are
divided into the following NAICS code categories: Agriculture,
Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Mining; Utilities; Construction;
Wholesale Trade; Retail Trade; Transportation & Warehousing;
Information; Finance & Insurance; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing;
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; Management of
Companies & Support Services; Educational Services; Health Care
& Social Assistance; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation;
Accommodation & Food Services; Public Administration; and Other
Services (services such as Equipment & Machinery Repairing;
Promoting or Administering Religious Activities; Grantmaking;
Advocacy; and Providing Dry-Cleaning & Laundry Services,
Personal Care Services, Death Care Services, Pet Care Services,
Photofinishing Services, Temporary Parking Services, and Dating
Services).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (Business Activity, New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New
Export Orders, Inventory Change, Inventory Sentiment, Imports,
Prices, Employment and Supplier Deliveries), this report shows
the percentage reporting each response, and the diffusion index.
Responses represent raw data and are never changed. Data is
seasonally adjusted for Business Activity, New Orders, Prices
and Employment. All seasonal adjustment factors are supplied by
the U.S. Department of Commerce and are subject annually to
relatively minor changes when conditions warrant them. The
remaining indexes have not indicated significant seasonality.  The NMI (Non-Manufacturing Index) is a composite index based on
the diffusion indexes for four of the indicators with equal
weights: Business Activity (seasonally adjusted), New Orders
(seasonally adjusted), Employment (seasonally adjusted) and
Supplier Deliveries. Diffusion indexes have the properties of
leading indicators and are convenient summary measures showing
the prevailing direction of change and the scope of change. An
index reading above 50 percent indicates that the non-
manufacturing economy in that index is generally expanding;
below 50 percent indicates that it is generally declining.
Supplier Deliveries is an exception. A Supplier Deliveries Index
above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries and below 50
percent indicates faster deliveries.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® surveys are sent
out to Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee respondents
the first part of each month. Respondents are asked to ONLY
report on information for the current month. ISM receives survey
responses throughout most of any given month, with the majority
of respondents generally waiting until late in the month to
submit responses in order to give the most accurate picture of
current business activity. ISM then compiles the reports for
release on the third business day of the following month.  The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the Non-
Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® monthly reports, are
listed in the order of most growth to least growth. For the
industries reporting contraction or decreases, those are listed
in the order of the highest level of contraction/decrease to the
least level of contraction/decrease.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® is published
monthly by the  Institute for Supply Management ™, the largest
supply management research and education organization in the
United States. The Institute for Supply Management™, established
in 1915, is the largest supply management organization in the
world as well as one of the most respected. ISM’s mission is to
lead the supply management profession through its standards of
excellence, research, promotional activities and education.  The next Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business featuring the
January 2012 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on Friday,
February 3, 2012.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management    http://www.ism.ws  