-- U.S. Corn-Seed Supply Sufficient for Planting, Industry Says
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-01-05T17:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/u-s-corn-seed-supply-adequate-before-planting-iowa-board-says.html
Farmers in the U.S., the world’s
largest corn grower and exporter, have enough seeds to plant
this year, according to the  Iowa  Corn Promotion Board, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  and  Monsanto Co. (MON)   “We have not heard of anything that shows there’s any kind
of seed-supply problem at all,” Kevin Rempp, the Iowa Corn
Promotion Board’s vice chairman, said today in a telephone
interview from  Johnston, Iowa . The state is the nation’s largest
producer. “The only way acreage will not be planted will be
weather issues.”  An adequate supply of seed may help farmers increase
acreage in the U.S., which accounts for about 44 percent of the
world’s corn trade. The Wall Street Journal reported earlier
today that farmers were facing a shortage of seeds. Demand for
U.S. grain may increase as dry weather caused by La Nina
threatens harvests in  Argentina , the second-largest exporter,
and  Brazil , the fourth-biggest.  Corn rallied 6.3 percent in  Chicago  last month on concern
that South American supplies may decline. Hot, dry weather
reduced U.S. corn production to the lowest in three years in
2011, helping the grain post a third annual advance, while
prices fell for wheat and soybeans. Corn futures for March
delivery dropped 2.2 percent to $6.4425 a bushel at 10:54 a.m.
on the Chicago Board of Trade.  Monsanto, DuPont  Hugh Grant , the chief executive officer of Monsanto, the
world’s largest seed company, said today on a conference call
that the St. Louis-based company is able to supply U.S. farmers
with enough corn seed. Monsanto reported that first-quarter
earnings exceeded estimates as Latin American farmers grew more
genetically-enhanced corn. The company said U.S. orders are
ahead of last year.  DuPont Co.’s (DD)  Pioneer Hi-Bred seed unit also
said today that it has enough supply to meet demand.  Richard Guse, 51, who farms with his brother in Waseca,
 Minnesota , said he was unable to buy all the top-performing seed
varieties he wanted from Monsanto, so he will switch to more
Pioneer seed.  “Some farmers won’t be able to buy their first choice, but
there would be no statistically significant impact on corn
seedings or on corn yields,” Bill Tierney, the chief economist
at Chicago-based AgResource Co., said in an e-mail today. “I
also recall how many times I’ve heard about this possibly being
a problem. It never materialized.”  Planting Increase  U.S. plantings may reach about 94 million acres (38 million
hectares) this spring, Morgan Stanley said in a report dated
yesterday, citing an estimate from Michael Cordonnier, the
president of forecaster Soybean & Corn Advisor Inc. Farmers
planted 91.9 million acres last year, according to the USDA.  The Wall Street Journal said that, by some estimates, U.S.
production of corn seed was down 25 percent to 50 percent before
this planting season and that output was hurt by drought in the
Midwest and Great Plains last year.  “While some varieties may not be available, we have no
evidence to suggest that planted acres will be constrained by a
‘shortage’ of seed,” USDA Chief Economist Joseph Glauber said
today. “Current indications suggest that corn producers will
expand planted acres this spring.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  