-- Mubarak Prosecution Calls for Execution, Alleging Links to Protest Deaths
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-01-06T08:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/mubarak-prosecution-calls-for-his-execution.html
Hosni Mubarak  and a former minister
should be executed for their roles in the killing of protesters
who joined the rallies that led to the Egyptian ex-president’s
ouster in February, the prosecution in their trial said.  Mubarak and Habib el-Adli, who was interior minister, have
denied charges of complicity to kill demonstrators. The
prosecution asked for the death penalty yesterday during
proceedings in Cairo, the official Middle East News Agency said.
Six of el-Adli’s aides are also on trial on related charges. At
least 846 people died during the 18-day revolt.  “The law foresees the death penalty for premeditated
murder,” chief prosecutor Moustafa Soliman said as he wrapped
up three days in which the state presented its case,  Agence
France-Presse  reported. The testimony of two of el-Adli’s
successors shows it “is not possible” for an interior minister
to use force on protesters without advising the head of the
state, indicating “Mubarak’s full knowledge about and
responsibility” for the killings, MENA cited him as saying.  This week’s sessions coincided with two days of voting in
the third round of elections to parliament’s lower house, which
Islamists are set to dominate. The Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom
and Justice Party, which led in the first two rounds of voting,
said early today that its bloc won 35 percent of party-list
votes so far announced for the latest phase.  Opposition to Generals  A runoff for the latest round is planned for Jan. 10 and
Jan. 11. Opposition is growing to the generals who took over
from Mubarak and say they won’t cede power before a new
president is elected by the end of June.  The Mubarak trial will resume Jan. 9, when lawyers
representing the families of the dead will make presentations,
MENA said.  Police confronted peaceful protesters with live rounds and
rubber bullets, MENA cited Soliman as telling the court Jan. 4.
The prosecution is certain Mubarak, el-Adli and the aides were
involved in “inciting, helping and agreeing” on the killing of
protesters, including providing police with firearms to fatally
shoot some of them to scare the rest, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 