-- Lufthansa Unions Protest Use of Temporary-Employment Company
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-01-05T16:42:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/lufthansa-unions-protest-use-of-temporary-employment-company.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest airline, is violating labor agreements with its
plans to use a temporary-employment company to hire flight
attendants to be based at Berlin’s new airport, two unions said.  An expert legal opinion supported the labor groups’ view
that the hiring of cabin crews through Hamburg-based
AviationPower GmbH breaches work-contract terms, the flight
attendants’ union UFO and services union Ver.di said in a joint
statement.  Lufthansa, which has its main hubs in Frankfurt and Munich,
plans to add flights serving  Germany ’s capital as  Berlin
Brandenburg Airport  opens for business in mid-2012. The airline
and the unions said today that they deadlocked in September over
the carrier’s demand that attendants assigned to Berlin work 9
percent more hours than employees elsewhere for the same pay.  “The labor agreement says that any plane which is
Lufthansa-branded on the outside must be staffed by its own
personnel,” Arne von Spreckelsen, a Ver.di spokesman, said by
telephone. Following consultation with the Graf von Westphalen
law firm, “we find this agreement valid, and it’s therefore now
impossible that Lufthansa planes be staffed by AviationPower.”  Saving Time  Lufthansa (LHA)  turned to AviationPower, a joint venture between
the airline’s technical division and Milwaukee-based temporary-
worker provider  Manpower Inc., (MAN)  to speed up processing new
employees, Wolfgang Weber, a spokesman for the carrier in
Berlin, said in a phone interview. The company is seeking the
additional work hours to compete with low-cost airlines such as
 Air Berlin Plc (AB1) , he said.  “We simply didn’t have time for any further discussions
with the unions because the Berlin airport opens on July 3, so
we need the staff now,” Weber said. “They have to be trained
now so they are ready for the summer.” He declined to comment
on the unions’ statement.  Ver.di and UFO will investigate “all legal options,”
including an injunction against using employees from the hiring
company, should Lufthansa fail to change the strategy, von
Spreckelsen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich via 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  