-- Orban Backs Off Confrontation With Hungarian Central Bank to Save IMF Deal
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-01-06T16:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/hungary-pledges-imf-compromise-to-quicken-bailout-talks-after-forint-rout.html
Hungary’s Premier  Viktor Orban 
retreated in his confrontation with central bank chief Andras Simor as he seeks to revive talks for an international bailout
after a market rout this week. The currency and bonds gained
even as the country received its third downgrade to junk.  “The president can count on the government’s support,
including our backing for him personally,” Orban told reporters
after meeting Simor today in Budapest. The government wants an
IMF agreement “as soon as possible” and will do “everything”
to support the central bank to stabilize the economy, he said.  The  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union
broke off talks last month on Hungary’s bid for a bailout after
Orban refused to withdraw a new central bank regulation the
institutions said may undermine monetary-policy independence and
Simor’s authority. The forint fell to a record against the euro
yesterday as investors speculated an IMF accord may be delayed.  “It’s clear Orban is retreating, the question is whether
it’s enough,” Peter Duronelly, who helps oversee $1.5 billion
mostly in Hungarian  government bonds  as chief investment officer
at Budapest Fund Management, said by phone today. “If EU
leaders expect a total capitulation from Orban, then an
agreement won’t be so simple or fast.”  The forint strengthened 0.9 percent against the euro to
trade at 316.13 at 5:07 p.m. in Budapest from as low as 324.24
yesterday before Hungary’s chief negotiator, Tamas Fellegi,
pledged to compromise with the IMF and the EU on a bailout.  Bonds Gain  The yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond declined
to 10.1 percent from 10.4 percent yesterday. The yield rose to
as high as 11.34 percent yesterday, according to generic prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The cost of insuring Hungarian bonds using credit-default
swaps fell to 698 basis points today from 735 points, according
to data provider CMA, which is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and
compiles prices quoted by dealers. The benchmark BUX stock index
dropped 0.7 percent to close at 16,107.72.  Hungary lost the investment grade on its foreign-currency
debt at  Fitch Ratings  today, the third such downgrade in six
weeks. The assessment was cut one step to BB+ from BBB-, the
company said in a statement. It assigned a negative outlook.  Standard & Poor’s  followed Moody’s Investors Service on
Dec. 21 in cutting Hungary’s debt to junk, 15 years after the
former communist country was awarded an investment-grade rating.  ‘Unorthodox’ Policies  “The downgrade of Hungary’s ratings reflects further
deterioration in the country’s fiscal and external financing
environment and growth outlook, caused in part by further
unorthodox economic policies which are undermining investor
confidence and complicating the agreement of a new” agreement
with the IMF and the EU, Matteo Napolitano, a director in
Fitch’s sovereign group, said in a statement.  Talks for Hungary’s second bailout in four years broke down
following the central bank law that takes away Simor’s right to
name deputies, expands the rate-setting Monetary Council and
adds a new vice president. A separate law makes it possible to
demote the central bank president if the institution is combined
with the financial regulator.  Government’s Plea  The central bank law, which came into effect on Jan. 1, is
“fully compatible” with EU rules, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said in a letter sent to European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  yesterday. The Cabinet will continue to
respect the Magyar Nemzeti Bank’s independence, Matolcsy wrote.  Orban shunned the IMF since taking office in 2010 to
prevent interference in what he called his “unorthodox”
measures. The steps included the effective nationalization of
$13 billion of private pension-fund assets and extraordinary
industry taxes to tame the  budget deficit  and forcing lenders to
swallow exchange-rate losses on foreign-currency mortgages. The
EU has criticized all those policies.  Orban’s government has also reduced the power of
independent institutions and asserted its influence since
winning elections, bucking objections from the EU, the IMF, the
U.S. and the  United Nations .  Ruling-party lawmakers ousted the chief justice of the
 Supreme Court , narrowed the jurisdiction of the  Constitutional
Court , wrote a new constitution, replaced an independent Fiscal
Council with one dominated by the premier’s allies, created a
media regulator led by ruling-party appointees and chose a party
member to lead the State Audit Office.  ‘Strong Policy Framework’  “What’s important to monitor is what conditions
international organizations will impose and what the
government’s reaction will be,” Levente Papa, a Budapest-based
strategist at OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, said in
an e-mail.  Hungary needs a “strong policy framework” and a “sound
mix with strong ownership from authorities” for an
international loan, Figyelo reported, citing an IMF staff report
from an Article IV consultation and a post-program monitoring
discussion dated Jan. 4.  “Such external support, which has been requested by the
authorities, will only be available and effective to the degree
it is based on a strong policy framework and a sound policy mix
with strong ownership,” Figyelo said, citing the report.  The report’s recommendations include strengthening central
bank independence, fiscal policy oversight, changing the tax
regime, cutting extraordinary industry taxes and reorganizing
public transport companies, Figyelo said. The report will form
the basis of the IMF board’s discussion on  Hungary  on Jan. 18,
according to the news magazine. The document has been sent to
the Hungarian government, which may add to it.  ‘Quick’ Agreement  “We have no comment on these reports or on leaked
documents,” Iryna Ivaschenko, the IMF’s representative in
Budapest, said in an e-mail today.  The Cabinet is ready to start negotiations on a standby
loan agreement with the IMF and the European Union and wants an
accord “quickly,” Fellegi, Hungary’s chief negotiator, told
reporters in Budapest yesterday. The government seeks a
precautionary loan to tap only if market conditions require it.  It’s in Hungary’s interest to obtain an IMF loan “as soon
as possible,” Orban said after meeting Simor today. Hungary
sees a “good chance” for swift talks with the IMF, Orban said.  Stability Sought  The government will consult with the central bank on a
daily basis and will work together to ensure economic stability,
Orban said today. The central bank, in a statement, said it will
use “available tools” to ensure economic stability.  “The government seemingly now realizes that an IMF deal
would bring benefits in terms of cheaper borrowing and financing
costs,” Tim Ash, a London-based economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, said in an e-mail today before Orban’s
briefing. “It is still weighing this up against the likely
political costs, and hence is trying still to ensure that it can
sell cutting the deal with the Fund as a victory.”  While the start of talks with the IMF may bolster the
forint, the move may “well be misplaced and reversed once the
government’s foot dragging then restarts,” Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based economist at Nomura International Plc.,
said in a report yesterday.  ‘First Base’  “We are still on first base,” Montalto said. “Investors
are still underestimating the time it will take and the distance
Orban will have to move on the policy front.”  After a stint as premier in 1998-2002, Orban rode a wave of
discontent against the previous Socialist governments that
implemented austerity measures starting in 2006 and needed a
bailout in 2008.  The previous Socialist administration of Prime Minister
Ferenc Gyurcsany angered Hungarians when it admitted to lying
about the state of the economy to win the 2006 election,
sparking demonstrations that included clashes between protesters
and police in the country’s worst street violence in 50 years.  Orban swept to power in 2010, grabbing a two-thirds
majority in parliament that allows him to unilaterally change
the constitution. He pledged to end austerity, a promise he
broke. He has been forced to raise some taxes, including the
value-added tax, delay a personal flat tax plan, cut social
spending and eliminate early retirement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  