-- Hungary Fails to Raise Planned Amount at 12-Month Bill Sale as Yields Jump
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-01-05T13:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/hungary-financing-costs-jump-to-highest-level-since-april-09-at-bill-sale.html
Hungary raised less than planned at a
Treasury bill sale as  yields (HBTB12YA)   soared (HBTB12YA)  on concern the  International
Monetary Fund  and European Union won’t resume aid talks.  The government sold 35 billion forint ($140 million) of
one-year bills, 10 billion forint less than targeted, data from
the Debt Management Agency, known as AKK, on Bloomberg show. The
average yield rose to 9.96 percent, the highest since April
2009, from 7.91 percent at the last sale of the same-maturity
debt on Dec. 22.  The cost of insuring Hungary’s debt through credit-default
swaps reached an all-time high and the forint touched a record
low versus the euro after aid negotiations stalled because of
new laws that threaten to undermine the independence of the
central bank.  Hungary  needs a deal as soon as possible and is
ready to discuss the conditions, Tamas Fellegi, the minister
assigned to lead the talks, told reporters today.  “Fellegi’s comments are aimed at providing reassurance,
but I think the market will adopt a seeing-is-believing
approach,” Timothy Ash, a London-based economist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc, said in an e-mailed comment. “Market
trust in this administration is now at rock bottom levels.”  Hungary’s international aid talks won’t start until the
government proves that the new law doesn’t infringe on the
independence of the central bank, European Commission spokesman
Olivier Bailly told reporters in Brussels today.  Repayments  Hungary will have to make payments on its 20 billion-euro
($26 billion) 2008 bailout this year, with instalments of about
700 million euros due in February and then the same amount at
quarterly intervals, plus 300 million euros in June and 500
million euros in each of September and December, according to
researcher  Capital Economics .  The country also has a 1 billion-euro bond maturing in
November and a smaller yen note due in July, according to data
on AKK’s  website . Against that, the agency has deposits of 2.5
billion euros, according to RBS.  Today’s auction yield result was “poor” given the lack of
sufficient demand even 3 percentage points above the central
bank’s benchmark rate, Guillaume Salomon, a London-based
strategist at Societe Generale SA, wrote by e-mail today.  “As long as there is no EU/IMF aid in store, forint assets
will continue to sell-off,” Salomon said.  The forint weakened 0.4 percent to 321.71 per euro at 1:34
p.m. in Budapest, after reaching a record low of 324.24 per euro
earlier. Credit-default swaps climbed to 748.4 basis points from
650 basis points on Jan. 3, data provider CMA said.  Policy Reversal  Hungary, which became the first EU country to receive an
IMF-led bailout in 2008, shunned fresh aid in 2010 when  Viktor
Orban  took over as prime minister. Orban reversed his policy
last year when the state started struggling to raise funds at
debt auctions and the forint plummeted.  The EU’s most-indebted eastern member received its second
sovereign-credit downgrade to junk last month when  Standard &
Poor’s  followed Moody’s Investors Service in taking the country
out of the investment-grade category on Dec. 21.  “Hungary is in need of IMF help and the current market
tensions increase the urgency to get it done soonest possible,”
Aurelija Augulyte, a Copenhagen-based emerging-market analyst at
Nordea Bank AB, wrote in a research report today, adding that
the government may strike an aid deal this quarter.  Hungary plans to stick to its debt auction schedule, the
AKK said in an e-mailed statement after the auction today. The
agency said it will be “flexible” in its offerings and the
accepted amounts to address changes in investor demand.  Stocks Fall  The benchmark BUX stock index fell 2.6 percent as OTP Bank
Nyrt., the country’s largest lender, sank 2.6 percent and Mol
Nyrt., the biggest refiner, declined 2.7 percent.  Hungary’s 10-year government  bonds (GHTB1Y)  dropped, lifting the
yield 4 basis points to 10.86 percent, the highest since April
2009.  The central bank may further increase the benchmark rate
from 7 percent, the EU’s highest, in January and February,
Nordea’s Augulyte said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  