-- Hungary Faces Highest Yields in 2 1/2 Years at Bill Sale as Forint Weakens
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-01-05T09:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/hungary-faces-highest-yields-in-2-1-2-years-at-bill-sale-as-forint-weakens.html
Hungary’s Treasury-bill yields rose
to the highest level in 2 1/2 years before an auction today as
concern the  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union
won’t resume aid talks pushed the forint to a record low.  The government is offering 45 billion forint ($180 million)
in one-year bills, data from the Debt Management Agency on
Bloomberg show. The  yield (GHTB1Y)  on existing Treasury bills with the
same maturity increased 20 basis points to 8.8 percent
yesterday, the highest since July 2009, according to generic
prices compiled by Bloomberg. The forint weakened 1.1 percent to
an all-time low of 324.07 per euro by 9:54 a.m. in Budapest.  “The auction is going to be a real test of the market,”
Guillaume Salomon, a London-based emerging-market strategist at
Societe Generale SA, wrote in an e-mailed response to questions
from Bloomberg late yesterday. “Concerns abound about the
outlook for  Hungary  and whether any deals with the IMF and EU
can be reached. As such, the market will remain very jittery
into the auction.”  The EU and the IMF broke off aid talks last month as the
government prepared legislation that threatened to undermine the
independence of the central bank. Parliament approved the laws
on Dec. 30. The EU has no current plans to resume talks,
European Commission spokesman Olivier Bailly said on Jan. 3.  Hungary, the EU’s most-indebted eastern member, received
its second sovereign-credit downgrade to junk last month when
 Standard & Poor’s  followed Moody’s Investors Service in taking
the country out of the investment-grade category on Dec. 21.  Default Risk  The cost of insuring Hungarian bonds using credit-default
swaps climbed to a record 733 basis points today from 650 on
Jan. 3, data provider CMA said. The benchmark BUX stock index
fell 2.9 percent today as  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , the country’s largest
lender, sank 3.8 percent and  Mol Nyrt. (MOL) , the biggest refiner,
declined 3.6 percent.  “Any disappointment as to the extent of the
participation” at the bill auction “will be perceived as
another negative sign for the forint,” SocGen’s Salomon said.  Hungary is ready to accept “certain” conditions in its
talks with the IMF, state-run news service MTI reported today,
citing an interview with Janos Lazar, head of the ruling party’s
parliamentary group.  “Compromises, agreements and decisions may be considered
which serve the country’s own interests,” Lazar told MTI. “The
kind of servile behavior which characterized earlier governments
isn’t justified as the revenue and expenditure of this country
more or less cover each other.”  Shunning Aid  Hungary, which became the first EU country to receive an
IMF-led bailout in 2008, shunned fresh aid in 2010 when  Viktor
Orban  took over as prime minister. Orban reversed his policy
last year when the state started struggling to raise funds at
debt auctions and the forint plummeted.  Hungary’s 10-year government bonds (GHGB10YR)  fell, lifting the yield
44 basis points to 11.295 percent, the highest since April 2009.  “Hungary is in need of IMF help and the current market
tensions increase the urgency to get it done soonest possible,”
Aurelija Augulyte, a Copenhagen-based emerging-market analyst at
Nordea Bank AB, wrote in a research report today, adding that
the government may strike an aid deal this quarter.  The central bank may further increase the benchmark rate
from 7 percent, the European Union’s highest, in January and
February, Augulyte said.  Pricing Debt  “I can easily imagine today’s auction will fail as no one
can price that part of the curve,” Gyorgy Cselenyi, Budapest-
based head of interest-rate trading at BNP Paribas SA, said in a
telephone interview today. “No person on earth can tell how big
a rate increase can be expected.”  BNP expects the government to reach an agreement with the
IMF and the EU, Michal Dybula, a Warsaw-based economist at the
bank, wrote in a research report yesterday.  “However, in the alternative case, market stress will
intensify with further rating downgrades, another 200 basis
point sell-off in bonds and a rise in the forint to 340 levels
against the euro,” Dybula said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  