-- UniCredit Falls to Lowest Since 1997 After Pricing Stock Offer at Discount
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-01-05T16:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/unicredit-slumps-to-lowest-since-97-after-rights-offer-priced-at-discount.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  fell to the lowest in
Milan trading in more than 19 years as investors kept selling
shares after the bank priced its 7.5 billion euro ($9.7 billion)
rights offer at a discount.  UniCredit shares plunged for the second day, declining 17
percent to 4.48 euros, the lowest since September 1992 and the
biggest decline since December 1988. Trading in the lender,
which yesterday slumped 14.5 percent, was halted at least three
times. Italy’s biggest bank has dropped about 45 percent since
it announced the offering on Nov. 14, valuing the Milan-based
company at 8.7 billion euros.  “Retail shareholders might not be in the best mood to
guarantee their pro rata,” analysts at Fidentiis Equities wrote
in a report today. “Other historical, core shareholders have
cut their stakes. All this to highlight that we might expect a
rainfall of rights once the offer starts.”  Brokerages, including Natixis SA and Deutsche Bank AG,
revised their estimates for the stock. Natixis lowered its
recommendation to “reduce” from “neutral” with a target
price of 4 euros, while Paola Sabbione, an analyst at Deutsche
Bank, cut his estimate for the shares to 6.7 euros.  UniCredit announced yesterday that it will sell stock at
1.943 euros each, 43 percent less than the Jan. 3 closing price,
excluding the value of rights. That exceeds the 30 percent
discount offered by Commerzbank AG in its 5.3 billion-euro
rights offer last May and the 39 percent discount when HSBC
Holdings Plc raised about $17.7 billion in March 2009.  Debt Crisis  The lender’s discount reflects a deepening in the sovereign
debt crisis, Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  told  Il
Sole 24 Ore  in an interview today. UniCredit agreed with the
arrangers of the rights offer to price the stock based on market
conditions, the CEO said, adding that he expects other banks
raising money to do the same.  Italian banking stocks retreated today as UniCredit’s
rights offer boosted concern that other lenders may struggle to
raise more capital to weather the region’s debt crisis.  Banca
Monte dei Paschi di Siena (BMPS)  SpA, which has a 3.3 billion-euro
capital shortfall, fell 5 percent to 24.55 cents. Banco Popolare
declined 4.7 percent to 95.6 cents and UBI Banca fell 4 percent
to 3.09 euros.  “I expected a fall but not of this magnitude,” said Paul Vrouwes, who helps oversee about 12 billion euros of shares at
ING Investment Management. “There’s an enormous supply of
banking stock potentially coming and some investors may be
selling to buy cheaper at a later stage.” He doesn’t own the
stock.  The EBA estimated last month that banks in the region
needed to raise 114.7 billion euros of capital, 8 billion euros
more than previously estimated. It gave them until Jan. 20 to
submit money-raising plans to national supervisors.  -- Editors: Dan Liefgreen, Stephen Taylor  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  