-- Sweden Shows Europe How to Cut Debt, Weather the Recession: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-05T00:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/view-sweden-shows-europe-how-to-cut-debt.html
Sweden  faces a difficult year, like
every other European economy, but unlike the rest of the
European Union, it’s equipped to cope. There are lessons here,
especially for the EU’s other non-euro countries.  Scandinavia’s biggest economy will see growth slow to less
than 1 percent in 2012, down from an impressive 4.5 percent in
2011, according to the National Institute of  Economic Research .
 Sweden  relies heavily on exports to the rest of  Europe , and the
EU’s protracted economic crisis will set it back.  Shortly before Christmas, the Riksbank cut its benchmark
rate for the first time since 2009 to 1.75 percent. The NIER
predicts further reductions this year in response to a weaker
economy and slower inflation. This prospect underscores the
seriousness of the situation -- and how valuable it is at such
times to have an interest rate to change.  The value of monetary independence is the first and most
important Swedish lesson. Sweden stayed out of the euro system
when the currency was introduced in 1999, and in the past
several years, the government has used this monetary flexibility
to the full.  Firm Fiscal Hand  With most of the EU bound by the  European Central Bank ’s
excessive monetary caution, the Riksbank cut interest rates more
sharply than the ECB and (in real terms) the U.S. Federal
Reserve from 2007 to 2009. Its inflation-adjusted interest rate
fell from 2.25 percent to minus 1.5 percent. The central bank
also devised new credit facilities and other unconventional
measures to support the Swedish financial system.  Fiscal policy played a smaller role in steadying the
economy. This, too, was a legacy of the 1990s, when budget
deficits widened and a national consensus formed around the need
to curb  government spending  and stabilize the public finances.
Sweden’s subsequent success in doing that is nothing less than
remarkable.  Hence Sweden’s second lesson: Fiscal stimulus isn’t a
necessary condition for economic recovery. Through the course of
the recent recession, the government’s cyclically adjusted
budget stayed in surplus. As a result, Swedish government debt
stands at less than 40 percent of gross domestic product, among
the lowest of any rich country.  Fiscal policy still helped to cushion the recession and
support a recovery -- not with discretionary stimulus, but
through so-called automatic stabilizers, which are relatively
strong in Sweden. (Measures such as consumption taxes and
generous  unemployment benefits  relax fiscal policy in recessions
and tighten it in booms, even if policy stands pat.)  In Sweden’s case, a firm fiscal hand, far from stifling the
recovery, probably helped it along. Keeping the budget under
control buoyed consumer and investor confidence. Surging demand
for Swedish debt drove bond prices higher last year; indeed,
Sweden’s government pays less to borrow than  Germany ’s.  Should others follow its example? For one group, the answer
is plainly yes. Members of the EU that have not yet adopted the
euro are nonetheless committed in principle to doing so. (This
includes Sweden; the U.K. and Denmark are two exceptions.)
Sweden proves, if further proof were needed, that euro
membership is a mistake.  Lacking a currency to devalue and  interest rates  to cut,
members of the euro system would only worsen their recessions if
they squeezed fiscal policy as tightly as Sweden did. Beyond the
EU, though, Sweden does suggest that sufficiently powerful
monetary easing can carry most, if not all, of the burden of
economic stabilization.  New Swedish Model  Models have their limits. Every country has to cope with
its own special circumstances. It helped Sweden that the most
recent slump, unlike that of the 1990s, was export-led: Its
exports are capital-intensive, so a drop in foreign demand
raises unemployment by less than a decline in demand at home. It
also helped that since coming to power in 2006, the country’s
center-right coalition government has made private-sector  job
creation  a priority.  Note, therefore, that this isn’t the old Swedish model.
Taxes on labor have been cut and the country’s once-lavish
welfare state is being squeezed.  What do Sweden’s voters, who once elected left-wing  Social
Democrats  by default, make of that? Their economic concerns have
increased lately, but few blame Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt 
and his government, and the Social Democrats have  failed  to
recover.  This suggests a third lesson, political rather than
economic: Fiscal conservatism can be popular. Sweden is
reluctant to put its hard-won fiscal strength at risk.
Rightly so. Sweden is better placed than most to deal with the
further economic setbacks the EU seems determined to dispense.
More interest-rate cuts and a shift to budget stimulus, if
needed, are options that few other rich economies have.  Greece ,  Portugal ,  Italy ,  Spain , Ireland: Read it and weep.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 