-- Rich to Invest More in Commodities, Reduce Cash
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 2012-01-05T20:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/wealthy-to-invest-more-in-commodities-survey.html
Wealthy investors plan to increase
their allocations to commodities and private companies while
decreasing their cash holdings this year, according to a survey
released today.  About 48 percent of respondents said they plan to add to
commodities investments during 2012 and 55 percent said they
intend to make more direct investments in private companies,
according to a survey by the Institute for Private Investors.
About 45 percent plan to increase real-estate holdings, said
IPI’s survey of its members, who are families with at least $30
million in investable assets.  “It’s part of that whole movement toward actually owning
real assets,” Mindy Rosenthal, executive director of IPI, said
in a telephone interview. “They’re looking at going back to the
old school way of making money.”  The  Dow Jones-UBS Commodity Index (DJUBS)  fell 13.4 percent in
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Real estate
investment trusts returned 8.1 percent last year, according to
the  Bloomberg REIT Index (BBREIT)  of 129 publicly traded property owners.
Most REITs are publicly traded companies that own and operate
property including apartments and office buildings.  Emerging Markets   Commodities and agricultural real-estate may be attractive
ways to benefit from growth and rising standards of living in
emerging markets, said Michael Tiedemann, chief investment
officer of New York-based Tiedemann Wealth Management, which
manages about $6.5 billion. The firm may increase its allocation
to real estate, commodities and oil- and natural-gas pipelines
by as much as 4 percent through investments in private
equity and stocks in the next year, said Tiedemann, whose
clients on average have about $65 million under management.  About 36 percent of survey respondents said they’ll
decrease cash holdings this year. That may be because some
families see market volatility as a buying opportunity,
Rosenthal said.  IPI members, who were questioned in November, said they
expected their portfolios to return 4.9 percent on average for
2011.  Wealthy families surveyed said they anticipate the  Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  will return 6.4 percent on average this year.
The index returned 2.1 percent including dividends during 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  About 70 individuals representing 70 families responded to
IPI’s online survey of its 345 member families. About 91 percent
of IPI’s members reside in the U.S. New York-based IPI provides
education and networking for its members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 