-- Weather Channel, WebMD Said to Be on Yahoo Asset Wish List
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-01-05T22:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/weather-channel-webmd-on-yahoo-s-wish-list.html
The Weather Channel and  WebMD Health
Corp. (WBMD)  are among companies  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  is interested in owning as
part of a tax-efficient asset swap with Alibaba Group Holding
Ltd. and  Softbank (9984)  Corp., said three people with knowledge of the
matter.  Yahoo drafted the wish list of assets, which also includes
AutoTrader.com Inc., before appointing former EBay Inc.
executive  Scott Thompson  as its new chief executive officer
yesterday, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the matter is private. Thompson might add or change the
assets, and a deal may fail to materialize, one person said.  Yahoo is considering a range of opportunities, including
specific investments or dispositions of assets, Chairman Roy Bostock said yesterday in a statement announcing Thompson’s
hiring. The Sunnyvale, California-based company estimated in
October its Alibaba stake was valued at about $14 billion on a
pretax basis. Yahoo’s current market value is $19.4 billion.  Splitting off the Asian assets “is a key part of the
solution to unlock  shareholder value ,”  Jordan Rohan , an analyst
at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a report today. “In addition
to overhauling company operations, one key role of Scott
Thompson as CEO is to oversee the selection of assets that may
be included.”  Asset Swap  In one potential transaction, Alibaba would consider buying
the Weather Channel so it can exchange the asset for a stake in
itself owned by Yahoo, according to the people. Softbank, which
is working with Alibaba, may explore using WebMD as part of the
exchange to acquire the 35 percent stake in Yahoo’s Japan joint
venture, said the people.  Neither Yahoo nor its Asian partners are currently in talks
to acquire the Weather Channel, which is owned by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) 
and private-equity firms, said the people. Given the complexity
of the proposed deal and the number of parties involved, an
agreement might be months away if it occurs, they said.  Yahoo declined to comment in an e-mailed statement, as did
spokeswomen for the Weather Channel and closely held
AutoTrader.com. A WebMD spokeswoman didn’t immediately return
calls.  Yahoo may still seek to receive an asset valued at more
than $5 billion, even if WebMD or Weather Channel aren’t part of
the transaction, the people said. Softbank and Alibaba might
also join forces to buy just one asset worth one-third of their
combined deal with Yahoo, one of the people said.  More Targets  Other logical targets may include personal finance website
Bankrate Inc., online travel site TripAdvisor Inc., and smaller
companies such as XO Group Inc. and InfoSpace Inc., said Rohan,
the Stifel Nicolaus analyst.  WebMD, which has a market value of about $2.2 billion, is
working with  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  to explore a sale in a
process that has attracted the interest of several private
equity funds, according to people close to the situation. The
New York Post reported Softbank’s interest in WebMD last month.  The fact that WebMD is in advanced talks to sell itself
makes it a less likely target for Softbank because the Japanese
company has first to reach a deal with Yahoo, said the people.  Weather Channel  NBC Universal , now owned by Comcast, as well as Bain
Capital LLC and Blackstone Group LP bought the Weather Channel
from Landmark Communications Inc. in 2008 for about $3.5
billion, a person close to the situation said at the time.  Bain and  Blackstone (BX)  raised the idea of combining Weather
Channel with Yahoo in December when those firms were actively
exploring an acquisition for all of Yahoo with Alibaba and
Softbank, said two people.  The transaction being proposed by Alibaba and Softbank, in
which Yahoo would cut its stake in Alibaba to about 15 percent
from 40 percent, values the Asian assets at $14 a Yahoo share,
or more than $17 billion, one person close to the situation said
Dec. 22.  Yahoo fell less than 1 percent to $15.64 in New York
trading today.  The asset-swap strategy would let Yahoo shed its stakes
without paying capital gains taxes in the U.S. Alibaba and
Softbank would each create a subsidiary into which they would
put several billion dollars of cash and operating assets, the
person said. The two Asian companies would then swap the so-
called splitcos for the Alibaba and Yahoo Japan stakes, while
Yahoo would keep its U.S. business and all of its cash, said the
person.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 