-- Web-Name Fight Shows Limits to U.S. Power Over Internet Guardian
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-01-05T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/web-name-expansion-battle-shows-limits-to-u-s-sway-over-internet-guardian.html
A plan to add hundreds of top-level
Internet domains beyond .com is proceeding over objections from
U.S. officials, illustrating limits in the government’s ability
to sway the nonprofit that manages the Web’s address system.  U.S. lawmakers and regulators have asked the Internet
Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers to scale back the
program, spurred by complaints from more than 50 corporations
that it will increase their costs, confuse consumers and create
opportunities for fraud. The companies, including  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , want the government to persuade
Icann to postpone the expansion scheduled to begin Jan. 12.  The Commerce Department, which oversees Icann’s contract
with the government, is unlikely to force the group to alter the
program because the agency lacks the authority and doing so
could spark a global backlash, according to Esther Dyson, who
served as the organization’s first chairwoman from 1998 to 2000.  “The U.S. has no right to shut it down,” Dyson, a New
York-based technology startup investor and critic of Icann’s
program, said in an interview yesterday. “It was created in
order to be accountable to the world at large and not to the
U.S. government.”  Whenever Icann “seems to be paying too much attention to
what the U.S. government says, it generates a certain amount of
pushback from the rest of the world and the U.S. is sensitive to
that,” Dyson said.  Icann , based in  Marina del Rey ,  California , has managed the
Internet’s address system since 1998 and oversees 22 so-called
generic top-level domains, including .com, .net, and .org. The
group receives no U.S. funding under its government contract and
is instead supported by fee income.  Brand Names  After six years of deliberations, the organization’s board
of directors approved a plan in June to expand the number of
top-level domains to spur innovation and competition. Icann will
begin accepting applications for new Web suffixes that include
brand names, cities and words in almost any language, such as
.apple, .nyc and .book.  Applications will  cost (COST)  $185,000 per domain. The program may
double Icann’s annual $85 million budget, Rod Beckstrom, the
group’s chief executive officer, said in an October speech.  The total price tag of operating a new top-level domain may
reach $1.5 million, including legal and consulting fees, Web
development and other costs, according to Gary Elliott, vice
president of global marketing at  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and
chairman of the Association of National Advertisers.  The ANA has assembled a coalition of companies and business
groups opposed to the expansion, including  American Express Co. (AXP) ,
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  JC
Penney Co. (JCP) , and  Kellogg Co. (K)   Commerce Letter  The Commerce Department urged Icann in a Jan. 3 letter to
respond to industry complaints about the program, while making
clear that the government does not wish to interfere with the
group’s decisions about the expansion.  There is “tremendous concern about specifics of the
program that may lead to a number of unintended and unforeseen
consequences,” Assistant Secretary of Commerce Lawrence Strickling wrote in a letter to Icann Chairman Stephen Crocker,
citing meetings with industry representatives.  Strickling said Icann should take steps to minimize the
“perceived need” for trademark owners to defensively register
domains they have no interest in operating, and consider phasing
in new top-level domains once the application period closes.  Icann will review the Commerce Department’s recommendations
and appreciates that the agency “recognizes that many of the
recent concerns expressed about the new top-level domain program
are more about ‘perceived’ problems than actual deficiencies,”
Crocker said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Contract Renewal  The Commerce Department’s letter acknowledges that “the
claims of the business community are legitimate and important,
and Icann needs to take these concerns into serious account,”
Dan Jaffe, executive vice president for government relations at
ANA, said in an e-mail yesterday.  The agency “could step into this fight directly and do
something substantial” including through its contract with
Icann to manage the Internet’s address system, Jaffe said.
“Clearly, Icann will not listen until it is forced.”  Icann’s current agreement with the  National
Telecommunications and Information Administration , a unit of the
Commerce Department, expires in March and the NTIA has requested
bids for a new contract.  ‘New Bidders’  “It will be interesting to see if any new bidders come to
the plate,” Josh Bourne, president of the Coalition Against
Domain Name Abuse, said in an interview. “In the absence of
competition, there’s no leverage that’s afforded over Icann.”  Bourne’s nonprofit group has criticized the structure of
the domain-name expansion, including the lack of a timeline for
a second application round. Its members include  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ,
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Nike Inc. (NKE)   Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat who leads
the Senate Commerce Committee, urged the Commerce Department in
a Dec. 28 letter to ask Icann to delay the application period or
“drastically limit” the number of new domains it approves next
year, citing the potential for increased costs to brand and
trademark owners.  A bipartisan group of 17 members of the House Energy and
Commerce Committee made a similar request on Dec. 21, asking
Icann to delay the program in order to address “widespread
concerns” about its impact.  FTC Letter  Icann should introduce the expansion as a pilot program and
reduce the number of domains created to lower the risk of
consumer fraud, the Federal Trade Commission said in a Dec. 16
letter. FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz told lawmakers on Dec. 7 that
the planned addition of top-level domains may be a “disaster,”
letting con artists set up fraudulent websites.  The FTC, which has no direct authority over Icann, can act
when companies engage in deceptive trade practices.  Canon Inc. (7751)  and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  are among the few large
companies that have expressed public interest in the new top-
level domains.  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s largest consumer products
company with more than 50 brands including Tide and Pampers, and
Hewlett-Packard, the biggest computer maker, have said they have
no plans to apply for their own Web suffixes.  Those most poised to benefit from the domain-name expansion
are Internet registries and registrars, trademark lawyers,
marketing firms, and Icann itself, said Dyson, Icann’s first
chairwoman.  “Icann should say, ‘Gee, we are now hearing from people,
and we’re not officially bound by them, but they are clearly
sending signals that some of what we’re doing requires some
further thought,’” Dyson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  