-- Wells Fargo, AT&T Joining With White House for Summer Jobs Plan
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-01-05T05:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/wells-fargo-at-t-joining-with-white-house-for-summer-jobs-plan.html
The Obama administration is setting
up partnerships with U.S. businesses, including  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , to
provide summer jobs for young people from low-income households.  Businesses and the government are pledging to provide
almost 180,000 paid jobs, internships and other “employment
opportunities” through training and mentoring programs by this
summer, according to the administration. The goal of the
initiative being announced by President Barack Obama today is to
raise that to 250,000, with 100,000 of those paid positions.  “There’s no replacement for the dignity that comes with
earning your first paycheck,” Labor Secretary Hilda Solis said
on a conference call with reporters yesterday. “Summer jobs are
good for our economy. They’re good for our youth, and they’re
good for our country.”  The partnership plan was put together after Congress
rejected Obama’s $447 billion proposal to spur  job creation ,
including spending $1.5 billion for summer jobs for low-income
Americans between 16 and 24 years old, according to a White
House release.  The plan is part of a broader effort by Obama in an
election year to take executive actions to boost the economy
while portraying Congress as obstructing his initiatives.  “The president has been clear that, where there is
gridlock with this Congress, he will act,” Solis said.  Business Commitments  This summer Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America
will provide 1,500 paid internships at the company and local
nonprofits along with job placement programs as part of a three-
year $50 million goal to help underserved communities, according
to the White House statement. Dallas-based AT&T, the largest
U.S. telephone company, has pledged to provide some 350 summer
jobs, including internships in finance, retail and engineering;
New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  will help 1,300 teens learn
skills to find full-time jobs as part of a larger mentorship
program; San Francisco-based Wells Fargo will support 1,000
employment opportunities, and  Mountain View , California-based
 LinkedIn (LNKD)  will offer 200 internships this summer.  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) ,  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  and  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  are also
taking part by expanding paid internship programs and offering
more jobs to youth this summer, the statement says.  According to the Labor Department, 48.8 percent of people
between 16 and 24 had jobs last July; Five years ago that number
was 59.2 percent. Numbers are lowest for African Americans --
34.6 percent between 16 and 24 had a job in July -- and
Hispanics -- 42.9 percent held jobs that same month.  Good Use of Time  Not everyone thinks this is a worthwhile use of time and
resources.  “Rather than taking credit for programs that companies
already had in place, a more constructive use of the White
House’s time would be calling on Democratic leaders to act on
the dozens of House-passed jobs bills still sitting idle in the
Democratic-run Senate,” said  Brendan Buck , a spokesman for
House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican.  The White House also announced a plan to introduce within
60 days an online tool for young people to find job postings.
Google, Internships.com, AfterCollege, LinkedIn and Facebook
will help support the site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 