-- Wells Fargo Faces Scrutiny by Investors on Mortgage Bonds
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-01-05T18:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/wells-fargo-faces-scrutiny-by-investors-on-soured-mortgage-securities.html
A bondholder group that won an $8.5
billion  settlement (BAC)  from  Bank of America (BAC)  Corp. on securities
backed by soured home loans may also seek payments from  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the nation’s biggest mortgage lender.  The law firm Gibbs & Bruns LLP said in a statement today
it’s seeking information on pools securing more than $19 billion
of residential mortgage-backed securities issued by affiliates
of Wells Fargo. The firm represents clients holding more than 25
percent of the voting rights in 48 bond trusts that issued the
securities, according to the statement.  Faulty mortgages and  foreclosures (HOMFCLOS)  have cost the five
largest U.S. home lenders about $70 billion since the start of
2007 and helped drive down shares of Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America by almost 60 percent in the past 12
months. Gibbs & Bruns said last month it may also seek
reimbursements from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest and most
profitable U.S. bank.  “Our clients continue to seek a comprehensive solution to
the problems of ineligible mortgages in RMBS pools and deficient
servicing of those loans,”  Kathy Patrick , the Houston-based law
firm’s lead counsel on the case, said in the statement.  Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, didn’t
have an immediate comment.  Wells Fargo will now have to decide whether to increase
 litigation (WFC)  reserves, said  Christopher Whalen , a senior managing
director at New York-based Tangent Capital Partners LLC. The
high end of estimated litigation losses could be $1.6 billion
beyond the reserve already set aside through September,
according to the bank’s third-quarter filing.  ‘The Big Uncertainty’  “This further illustrates that it will be death by a
thousand cuts,” Whalen said in a phone interview today. “The
thing we still don’t know is what other claims are going to come
out of the woodwork? That’s the big uncertainty with the top
four banks.”  Gibbs & Bruns said in a statement last month that it may
seek reimbursement from New York-based JPMorgan for more than
$95 billion of securities. The figure was “misleading” because
it represents the current balance of the debt and not the
original amount, which was $232 billion, according to Chris Gamaitoni, a mortgage and banking analyst at Washington-based
Compass Point Research and Trading LLC. Gamaitoni’s “base-case
estimate” is that the effort will cost JPMorgan about $12
billion, he said in a Dec. 19 report.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  also received a letter from the law firm in
October, which said it was representing holders of at least 25
percent of voting rights in 17 trusts with more than $6 billion
in outstanding balances, according to a filing.  BofA’s Proposed Settlement  Bank of America’s proposed $8.5 billion settlement would
resolve claims from investors in Countrywide Financial Corp.
mortgage bonds. Countrywide was acquired by Bank of America in
2008. The settlement has been criticized as unfair by insurer
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and other investors. New York
Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  and Delaware Attorney General
 Beau Biden  have also intervened in the case, which is pending in
federal court. The bondholder group has defended the settlement,
saying in a court filing that rejection of the deal would be
“devastating” for investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  