-- Wheat, Corn Decline as Europe Debt Crisis Cuts Investor Demand
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-01-05T06:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/wheat-corn-decline-as-europe-debt-crisis-cuts-investor-demand.html
Wheat and corn dropped, tracking
losses in Asian equities, as concerns that the European debt
crisis may worsen prompted selling by some investors.  March-delivery wheat fell 0.5 percent to $6.47 a bushel on
the Chicago Board of Trade at 2:19 p.m. Singapore time. Corn for
March delivery slipped 0.2 percent to $6.5725 a bushel, erasing
an earlier gain of 0.2 percent.  Asian stocks snapped a two-day rally and extended a global
decline as Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said yesterday
that without a deal with the European Union,  International
Monetary Fund  and  European Central Bank , the nation “faces the
immediate risk of a disorderly default” in March.  “The way agricultural prices are most influenced by  Europe 
is how speculators react,” Paul Deane, a senior agricultural
economist at  Australia  & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said by
phone from Melbourne. “A lot of the damage they can do from
liquidating their positions fast has been done. Still, that can
put underlying pressure on agricultural commodities.”  Corn prices may rebound, as the market awaits the next U.S.
Department of Agriculture estimates on global supply amid dry
weather that threatens to parch crops in  South America , Deane
said. The USDA report is due on Jan. 12.  Corn is most at risk from the dryness in South America
caused by the La Nina weather event, said Morgan Stanley, citing
a conference call with Michael Cordonnier, president of
forecaster Soybean & Corn Advisor Inc.  Production in Argentina may drop to 25 million metric tons
in 2011-2012, 4 million tons below the U.S. Department of
Agriculture’s  estimate (US09PRAR) , Morgan Stanley cited Cordonnier as
saying in an e-mailed report dated yesterday. About 20 percent
of the nation’s corn area remains unplanted with only 10 days
left before the normal planting window closes, it said.  “The weather concerns certainly do exist and persist
today,”  Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at Commonwealth
Bank of Australia, said by phone from Sydney today. Argentina’s
output may be “significantly below what the USDA estimated,”
widening the global production deficit, he said.  Soybeans for delivery in March were little changed at
$12.305 a bushel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  