-- WikiLeaks Backers Lose Bid to Keep Twitter Accounts From U.S. Prosecutors
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-05T19:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/wikileaks-backers-lose-bid-to-keep-twitter-data-from-u-s-.html
Three WikiLeaks backers lost their
bid to keep information on them collected from their Twitter
Inc. accounts from being turned over to U.S. prosecutors who are
investigating the group’s publication of classified information.  U.S. District Judge Liam O’Grady in Alexandria,  Virginia ,
yesterday denied a request by the backers that the information
sought by prosecutors be blocked while a federal appeals court
considers their challenge. O’Grady, in his ruling, said the
appeal has little chance of success because existing case law
“overwhelmingly” supports the government’s position.  “Litigation of these issues has already denied the
government lawful access to potential evidence for more than a
year,” O’Grady said in his ruling. “The public interest
therefore weighs strongly against further delay.”  The litigation over the Twitter data was the first public
skirmish in the government’s criminal investigation of
WikiLeaks’s leader, Julian Assange, and others who may have
helped leak diplomatic cables and classified military documents
through the WikiLeaks website.  The subscribers challenging the order include Birgitta
Jonsdottir, a member of the Icelandic parliament; Jacob
Appelbaum, a computer security researcher who represented
WikiLeaks at a 2010 hacker’s conference in  New York ; and Rop
Gonggrijp, described in court papers as a Dutch activist and
businessman.  First Amendment  The three subscribers argued that the U.S. subpoena to
Twitter violated their privacy and their rights under the First
Amendment of the U.S. Constitution.  “We’re obviously disappointed by this ruling and we think
the judge got it wrong,” said Aden Fine, a lawyer with the
 American Civil Liberties Union  who represents Jonsdottir. Fine
said his client is considering her options, which include asking
the appeals court to delay turning over the data.  They filed an appeal with the U.S. Appeals Court in
Richmond, Virginia, last month after O’Grady upheld a magistrate
judge’s ruling that required San Francisco-based Twitter to give
investigators data on subscribers “associated with WikiLeaks,”
including Assange and Bradley Manning, a U.S. soldier charged
with leaking classified information.  No Standing  In March 2011, U.S. Magistrate Judge Theresa Buchanan said
the three backers didn’t have standing to challenge her order
because the government wasn’t seeking the contents of their
communications on Twitter.  Prosecutors asked for subscriber names, contact
information, billing records, user activity, Internet protocol
addresses and source and destination e-mail addresses.  In a Dec. 14 filing, prosecutors said that a delay in
turning over the Twitter data would harm the grand jury’s
criminal investigation.  “Ongoing litigation has already deprived the grand jury of
the requested information for more than a year,” Andrew
Peterson, an assistant U.S. attorney in Alexandria, wrote in the
filing. “This, in turn, has prevented the grand jury from
following up on investigative leads generated from the Twitter
records for more than a year.”  Peter Carr , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride ,
declined to comment on O’Grady’s ruling.  The district court case is In re Application of the U.S.
for an Order Pursuant to 18 USC 2703(d), 11-dm-00003, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria). The
appeal is In re: 2703(d) Application, 11-5151,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Fourth Circuit (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 