-- Workers Report Pressure on Ethics Rules in Survey
-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 2012-01-08T18:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/workers-report-pressure-to-break-ethics-rules-retaliation-rises.html
U.S. workers report mounting pressure
to violate corporate policies, according to a survey by the
nonprofit Ethics Resource Center that also showed retaliation
against whistle-blowers reached a record level.  Demands on employees to ignore company policies, or even
break the law, are approaching the highest level since 2000,
just before corporate scandals led to laws combating violations,
according to a report released today by the Arlington, Virginia-
based group.  The percentage of employees who perceived pressure to break
rules rose to 13 percent, from 8 percent in 2009, and 93 percent
of those workers said they saw misconduct. Retaliation was more
far-reaching than in 2009, according to the group.  “The co-existence of widespread retaliation and pressure
with historically low misconduct and high reporting is unlike
any previous pattern,” according to the report. “The economy
and the unique experiences of those using social networking at
work” led to differences in 2011 workplace ethics trends.  The National Business Ethics Survey shows historically low
levels of misconduct in the U.S. workplace. The percentage of
employees who said they saw bad behavior at work fell to an all-
time low 45 percent from 49 percent in 2009 and 55 percent in
2007, the highest, according to the survey.  Retaliation Rises  Retaliation against whistle-blowers rose. More than one in
five employees, or 22 percent, who reported misconduct said they
experienced some form of retaliation, up from 12 percent in 2007
and 15 percent in 2009. Workplace retaliation included being
“given a cold shoulder by other employees,” verbal abuse by a
supervisor or being denied a raise or a promotion.  A record 65 percent reported bad workplace behavior, a
record, up from 63 percent two years earlier and 12 percentage
points higher than the 53 percent in 2005.  The report showed that about one third, or 34 percent, of
all employees say management now watches them more closely, and
more than four in 10 employees say their company has increased
efforts to raise awareness about ethics.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  were
principal sponsors of the survey, with  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Southern Co. (SO) ,
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  among sponsors, according to the center.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  