-- Yahoo Stakes Its Future on Engineer Unproven in Media: Tech
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-01-05T21:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/yahoo-s-new-ceo-thompson-aims-at-turnaround-as-sale-prospects-fade-tech.html
As president of  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal
unit,  Scott Thompson  used an eye for detail and a push into
mobile payments to more than double revenue and boost the user
base to more than 100 million. He’ll face a bigger challenge at
the helm of  Yahoo! Inc (YHOO) .  Thompson, 54, must lure users and advertisers back to a
company besieged by declining sales and shrinking market share.
His appointment yesterday as chief executive officer makes it
less likely that Yahoo, the biggest U.S. Web portal, will
continue to pursue strategic options such as selling the entire
company, said Clayton Moran, an analyst at Benchmark Co.  “This makes it clear that they want to remain independent
and try to drive a turnaround, which as we’ve seen over the
years has been very difficult to achieve,” Moran said.  Thompson, whose  past jobs  include overseeing global
technology for  Visa Inc. (V) , is an accountant and engineer who
helped turn PayPal’s online payments into EBay’s fastest-growing
business. Still, he may lack the advertising chops he’ll need to
reverse fortunes at Yahoo, once the largest Internet-search
provider, now an also-ran in search behind  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and a
laggard in social media to Facebook Inc.  “He’s not a proven media executive,” Moran said. “Yahoo
is an advertising-driven business. So I’m a bit surprised that
they again went outside the industry to tap a new leader.”  Yahoo said yesterday Thompson will join the company Jan. 9,
after leading PayPal since January 2008. Thompson steps in after
a failed turnaround effort by former Yahoo CEO  Carol Bartz , who
was fired in September after less than three years at the helm.  Leveraging Talent  In an interview yesterday, Thompson said he enjoys working
through complex problems and breaking down the challenges to be
tackled. Yahoo already has plenty of folks with experience in
fields such as advertising, he said.  “My job is to leverage all of that talent, experience that
exists in the organization already,” he said. “I know there
are some things we need to change and fix, and I love it. I
think that’s part of what attracted me to come here -- that it’s
going to be fast-paced, fun, hard, complex with a great team of
people.”  That focus should help Yahoo execute Thompson’s plan to
turn around its core assets, said  Herman Leung , an analyst at
Susquehanna Financial Group, who has a “neutral” rating on the
stock and doesn’t own it.  ‘Execution-Focused’  “Scott is actually different from the predecessor CEOs,
because the other CEOs were actually more big-picture focused
and less hands-on,” he said. “I think Scott is probably the
most hands-on and execution-focused type CEO that Yahoo can
get.”  On a conference call yesterday, Thompson said his
priorities are boosting revenue and putting the company at the
forefront of innovation. Yahoo will turn its attention
increasingly to mobile devices, such as tablet computers and
smartphones, Thompson said. Rivals such as Facebook and Google
likewise aim to take advantage of the shift to mobile computing.  “I just won’t rest until we’ve positioned this business
and start to succeed,” Thompson said in the interview.  When it ousted Bartz, Yahoo undertook a review of its
strategic options. One decision that is still on the “front
burner” is a possible divestment of the company’s Asian assets,
including its stakes in China and  Japan , Moran said.  The company has been under investor pressure to realize
value from its international assets, including a stake of about
40 percent in  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. (ALIBABZ)  and co-ownership of
Yahoo Japan with  Softbank Corp. (9984)  In October, Yahoo estimated the
Alibaba stake was worth about $14 billion on a pretax basis.  Jack Ma ‘Interested’  After Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo announced the
strategic review, its advisers received inquiries from
“multiple parties” interested in various unspecified options,
according to a September memo to employees from co-founder  Jerry Yang . Later, Alibaba Chairman Jack Ma said he was “very
interested” in buying Yahoo.  Yahoo also has considered offers for a minority stake from
bidders including TPG Capital and a group led by  Silver Lake ,
people familiar with the matter said in November.  Under Bartz, who joined Yahoo in 2009, the company lost
market share in the display-advertising businesses, an area that
it has traditionally led. The company’s piece of the $12.3
billion U.S. market fell to 13.1 percent in 2011, from 14.4
percent the previous year, according to  EMarketer Inc.  The New
York-based researcher said Yahoo lost its No. 1 position to
Facebook last year.  Revenue Challenge  While Yahoo has been cutting costs, revenue growth has
eluded the company as users drift to other sites where marketers
are spending money. Yahoo’s third-quarter  sales (YHOO) , excluding
revenue passed on to partner sites, declined 4.6 percent to
$1.07 billion. U.S. Internet surfers spent 9.3 percent of their
online time on Yahoo sites in November, down from 11 percent two
years earlier, according to  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)   Yahoo  shares (YHOO)  fell 0.9 percent today to $15.64 at the close
in  New York . The stock has gained 21 percent since Bartz’s
departure on Sept. 6.  PayPal, owned by  San Jose , California-based EBay, has
services that help retailers and individuals exchange funds for
purchases or payments, even without a  credit card . As president,
Thompson contributed to an increase of the payment service’s
users from 50 million to more than 100 million, helping it close
in on a goal of revenue as high as $7 billion by 2013, compared
with about  $3.3 billion (EBAY)  in 2010.  Thompson also engineered the company’s expansion to online
daily deals and mobile payments. His Web-industry experience may
give him a better chance for success than Bartz, whose previous
firm specialized in software for engineers and architects, said
 Sameet Sinha , an analyst at B. Riley & Co. in  San Francisco .  “He’s from the Internet industry,” Sinha said. “He is
always around those sort of people who are in advertising. He
can easily learn. Will it take longer to learn? Sure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  