-- Zloty Slides to 3-Week Low as Hungary Concern ‘Infects’ Currency
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-01-05T12:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-05/zloty-slides-to-3-week-low-as-hungary-concern-infects-currency.html
The zloty slid to the weakest level
in almost three weeks against the euro and the cost to insure
Polish debt rose as concern  Hungary  won’t be able to secure
international aid hurt demand for eastern European assets.  The zloty lost 0.6 percent to 4.5207 per euro as of 12:48
p.m. in Warsaw, the weakest intraday level since Dec. 16. Polish
five-year credit default swaps rose five basis points to 300
basis points, the highest level since Nov. 29, according to data
provider CMA.  The European Union and the  International Monetary Fund 
broke off aid talks last month as the Hungarian government
prepared legislation that threatened to undermine the
independence of the central bank. Hungary needs a deal as soon
as possible to help maintain market financing and is ready to
discuss the conditions, Tamas Fellegi, the minister assigned to
lead the talks, told reporters today. Hungary raised less than
planned at a Treasury bill auction today as yields soared. The
forint slumped to a record low.  The zloty selling is “a natural way to express negative
view toward the region,”  Murat Toprak , head of Europe,  Middle
East  and Africa foreign exchange strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc
said by phone from  London . “The situation in Hungary can infect
other currencies in central and eastern Europe.”  The worsening situation in Hungary may lead to contagion in
other central and eastern European countries and cause an
“unprecedented” weakening of the zloty, Nomura Holdings Inc.
said in an e-mailed note to clients yesterday. The Japanese bank
is advising clients to sell zloty in anticipation of its decline
to 4.75 per euro.  Further depreciation may prompt the central bank to step
into the market to prop up the currency, Jakub Borowski, chief
economist at  Kredyt Bank SA (KRB) , a unit of  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , in Warsaw,
wrote in a note to clients today.  The Narodowy Bank Polski intervened on the market selling
foreign currencies for the zloty five times in 2011, according
to its statements. The zloty lost 11 percent against the euro
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  