-- 
Australia Beats South Africa 39-20 in Tri-Nations Rugby Opener in Sydney

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-07-23T14:52:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/australia-beats-south-africa-39-20-in-tri-nations-rugby-opener-in-sydney.html
Australia  rebounded from last week’s
upset loss to Samoa by beating  South Africa  39-20 in the opening
match of rugby’s Tri-Nations.  Winger  James O’Connor  scored 19 points as the Wallabies
outscored the Springboks by five tries to two last night at
Sydney’s ANZ Stadium, where they started their 2011 season seven
days ago with a 32-23 loss to Samoa.  “We played some rugby this week,” Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans  said in a news conference. “Those who were involved last
week were better for the hit out and the guys who didn’t
probably got a bit of a shot over the bow to ensure that they
came in with the right frame of mind. It was a step forward.”  It was the fourth straight Test in which Australia scored
30 points or more against the Springboks, who left 21 injured
players at home for the away leg of the southern hemisphere
championship. South Africa will defend its Rugby  World Cup  title
in September and October in  New Zealand .  The All Blacks, Springboks and Wallabies, the top three
teams in the International Rugby Board’s world rankings, face
each other home and away, giving coaches four matches to fine-
tune their combinations before the World Cup starts Sept. 9.  The Tri-Nations switches to New Zealand for the next two
matches. The All Blacks, who opened their season by beating Fiji
60-14 two days ago, host South Africa in Wellington on June 30
before taking on Australia at week later in Auckland.  ‘Another Notch’  “The good thing now is we get some time to re-gather,
recover, tend to a bit of detail and really hone in on the
opportunity we’ve got at Eden Park,” Deans added. “It’s going
to go up another notch. We’re looking forward to that.”  After getting overpowered by the Samoans last week,
Australia made seven changes to its starting lineup, including
recalling fly-half  Quade Cooper  and scrum-half Will Genia, who
helped the  Queensland Reds  win the Super Rugby title.  The pair launched counterattacks from close to their own
22-meter line that resulted in tries for prop Ben Alexander and
winger Digby Ioane and a 12-0 lead by the 12th minute.  The rest of the first-half points came from penalty goals.
South Africa fly-half Morne Steyn made it 12-3 before O’Connor
put Australia 15-3 ahead. Steyn then cut the lead to nine points
with the last action before the break.  O’Connor stretched the Wallabies’ lead to 16 points three
minutes after halftime, converting his own try after scooping
Cooper’s pass off the ground and diving over in the corner.
Hooker  Stephen Moore  burst through a gap in the 48th minute for
Australia’s fourth try, which O’Connor converted to make it 29-6.  An O’Connor penalty and converted try from outside center
Adam Ashley-Cooper put the Wallabies 39-6 up. Replacement hooker
Chiliboy Ralepelle went over from close range for the
Springboks’ first try of the match on the hour mark, which was
converted by Patrick Lambie to make it 39-13.  South Africa captain John Smit added the game’s final try
with four minutes remaining and Lambie converted.  “It looked a bit like it was going to get ugly, but the
boys managed to rein it in a little bit,” Smit said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at Sydney’s ANZ Stadium at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 