-- 
Australia’s Evans Heads to Paris in Tour de France Leader’s Yellow Jersey

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-07-24T02:23:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/australia-s-evans-heads-to-paris-in-tour-de-france-winner-s-yellow-jersey.html
Cadel Evans  is set to win the 
 Tour de France  after erasing the lead of brothers Andy 
and Frank Schleck in yesterday’s time trial.  Evans is 1 minute, 34-second ahead of  Andy Schleck  heading
into today’s final stage to Paris, where tradition dictates 
the leader isn’t challenged. He would be the first Australian 
to win the 108-year-old cycling race. Frank Schleck is 2 minutes, 
30 seconds behind in third.  Evans, a time-trial specialist, started yesterday’s stage
57 seconds behind Andy Schleck and four seconds behind Frank
Schleck. He propped himself on the handlebars and churned the
pedals over the rolling 26-mile course in Grenoble, sweat
pouring from his face, to finish second in the trial behind Tony
Martin of  Germany .  Evans wiped away tears as he waited to change into the
leader’s yellow jersey. He switched from mountain bike racing to
road racing in 2001 and two years later broke his collarbone
three times. He was the Tour runner-up in 2007 and 2008.  “I’ve had some bad moments in the last 10 years so that
just makes the good ones even better,” Evans, 34, told
Eurosport television, adding he wants to make sure he gets to
the finish in Paris without mishap.  Still in the yellow jersey, Luxembourg’s Andy Schleck
slumped onto his handlebars in exhaustion after finishing the
time trial in 17th yesterday. Frank Schleck was 20th.  Schleck Brothers  Andy, 26, had taken the lead from  Thomas Voeckler  two days
ago after the final mountain stage that ended atop Alpe d’Huez,
while Frank, 31, had risen to second.  The younger Schleck is on course to be runner-up for the
third straight year.  Evans started the Tour de  France  fluently, winning stage
four to the Mur-de-Bretagne and defended his position against
defending champion  Alberto Contador  and the Schlecks in the
Pyrenees and Alps.  “The way he rode clearly wasn’t spectacular but he has
always been there,”, Contador told Eurosport. “He deserves
it.”  Voeckler is fourth overall, 3 minutes, 20 seconds behind
Evans. Contador is fifth, 37 seconds further back.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  