-- 
Canada’s Dollar Rises for Second Week on Central Bank Interest Rate Stance

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-07-23T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/canada-s-dollar-rises-for-second-week-on-central-bank-interest-rate-stance.html
Canada ’s dollar rose, touching the
strongest level against the greenback in more than three years,
as investors took  Bank of Canada  statements to mean the central
bank may become more aggressive with interest-rate increases.  Gains by the currency, nicknamed the loonie, were tempered
after a government report yesterday showed inflation didn’t
increase as much as forecast, quelling speculation the central
bank would raise  interest rates  as soon as September. The
currency fell this week against 13 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts before a report next week forecast to show the
nation’s economy grew at a faster pace in May than April.  “It provided a bit of a counterpoint to what we had
earlier in the week in terms of the hawkishness,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist in Toronto at TD Securities
Inc., a unit of Canada’s second-largest bank, by phone from
Toronto, referring to the inflation report. “It does suggest
there’s no rush to tighten. There’s a chance that we see the
Canadian dollar soften up a little.”  The Canadian currency strengthened 0.6 percent to 94.80
cents against the greenback, from 95.32 cents on July 15, its
second weekly gain. It touched 94.23 cents on July 21, the
strongest since Nov. 9 2007. One Canadian dollar purchases
$1.0549.  The loonie depreciated 0.9 percent to C$1.3613 against the
euro, and fell 0.2 percent to 82.85 yen, from week-earlier
levels.  Retail Costs  Consumer prices advanced 3.1 percent in June from a year
earlier after a 3.7 percent gain in the previous month,
Statistics Canada said yesterday in Ottawa. The median forecast
of 24 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 3.6
percent rate of increase.  “That’s got to be one of the worst misses on CPI that I’ve
seen,” said  David Love , a trader of interest-rate derivatives
at the brokerage Le Groupe Jitney Inc. in  Montreal , said via e-
mail, referring to the  consumer price index .  Yields on the six-month overnight index swap, a security
based on what investors expect the central bank’s rate will
average during that period, dropped 2.8 basis points to 1.11
percent after the CPI number, after climbing 7.9 percent during
the three days since Bank of Canada policy makers said July 19
that monetary stimulus “will be withdrawn.” The statement
omitted the word “eventually” that had been contained in
previous releases.  Central Targets  The central bank held the target rate for overnight loans
between commercial banks at 1 percent on July 19, where it’s
been since September after they raised it three times in 2010.  “Time is on the bank’s side,” TD’s Osborne said. He
predicted the Canadian dollar will fall to parity with its U.S.
counterpart by year-end. “They don’t have to rush to tighten
here in particular with the Canadian dollar as firm as it is. It
puts the onus on the data to provide the smoking gun.”  Canada’s gross domestic product expanded 0.1 percent in May
from a month earlier, according to the median of 20 forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg News.  Statistics Canada  is due to report
the numbers on July 29 in Ottawa.  The nation’s government bonds dropped during the week,
pushing the yield on benchmark two-year debt eight basis points
higher to 1.49 percent. The price of the 2 percent security
maturing in August 2013 fell 17 cents to C$101.  Bond Returns  Canada’s government bonds made 1.1 percent this month,
compared with 0.3 percent for global sovereign bonds, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data through July 21.  The Canadian currency weakened from about 94.35 cents per
 U.S. dollar  to 94.65 cents during the 40 minutes before
Statistics Canada released the CPI data at 7 a.m. Toronto time
yesterday.  “There was, once again, heavy speculation about the number
before the release,” said  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-
exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London , via e-
mail.  Canada’s statistics agency made economic data available to
companies licensed to distribute its data up to 59 seconds
before the official publication time for more than six years,
according to a KPMG LLP report published yesterday on Ottawa-
based Statistics Canada’s website.  “KPMG contacted a number of licensed distributors and
concluded that it is unlikely that any data were actively
released to their clients prior to the official release time,”
a Statistics Canada  summary  of the report said.  Statistical Inquiry  The KPMG investigation was ordered in December by then-
Industry Minister  Tony Clement . The agency stopped the practice
on Nov. 25 after being alerted to it by Bloomberg News.  “Statistics Canada applies strict security procedures
during media lockups to prevent release of protected information
prior to official release time,” Peter Frayne, the head of
Statistics Canada’s media relations in Ottawa, wrote in an e-
mail yesterday. “These procedures were followed during this
morning’s lockup and we have no indication that anything unusual
occurred.”  The loonie has weakened 1.4 percent this year versus the
currencies of nine other developed nations, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  