-- 
Charles Manatt, Democratic Chairman in Reagan Era, Dies at 75

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 
2011-07-23T13:17:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/charles-manatt-democratic-chairman-in-reagan-era-dies-at-75.html
Charles Manatt, who as Democratic
national chairman worked to hold his party together during the
ascendancy of Ronald Reagan, has died. He was 75.  He died yesterday, according to a statement from his  law
firm ,  Manatt, Phelps & Phillips .  Manatt, founder of the Los Angeles-based firm, got his
start in politics in  California , serving as state party
chairman. He ran unsuccessfully for chairman of the  Democratic
National Committee  in 1972 and 1976. He led the party’s national
finance council when, in 1980, he ran a third time for chairman,
and won.  Manatt’s four-year term, from 1981 to 1985, coincided with
Reagan’s triumphant first term. In 1984, Reagan won a second
term in a landslide, trouncing Democratic nominee Walter Mondale
with 59 percent of the popular vote and 98 percent of the
electoral vote.  Manatt put on the happiest face he could. “I’m not
depressed, because I never get depressed,” he said on election
night. “We’ve gained in the Senate, kept our majority in the
House and will never, ever have to face  Ronald Reagan  again.”  Manatt was credited with bringing the national party into
the computer age, particularly in using technology to organize
campaign fund-raising, United Press International reported in
1984. Earlier, in California, he had used computers to help
target precincts that were important in elections.  Party Discord  He almost was a direct victim of the party’s internal
discord.  As Democrats were assembling in  San Francisco  to nominate
Mondale for president and Geraldine Ferraro -- the first woman
on a major-party ticket -- as his running mate, Mondale moved to
oust Manatt and elevate Bert Lance, leader of the Georgia
Democratic party and formerly the budget director under
President Jimmy Carter.  Party leaders rushed to Manatt’s defense. Less than two
days after firing Manatt, Mondale reinstated him.  Mondale’s attempt to unseat Manatt “offended everyone,
including the southerners it was supposed to please, and left
even loyalists wondering who was calling the shots,” David Broder of the  Washington  Post wrote in a post-election analysis.  Born in  Chicago   Charles Taylor Manatt was born on June 9, 1936, in Chicago
and grew up in Audubon,  Iowa , where, according to a 1981 profile
in the New York Times, he swilled Hereford hogs on his father’s
320-acre farm and was an Eagle Scout and president of Iowa
Future Farmers of America.  He graduated from Iowa State University in 1958 and earned
his law degree at George Washington University in Washington in
1962. While in Washington, he worked for the Democratic National
Committee. He moved to Los Angeles, where, in addition to co-
founding his law firm in 1965, he became chairman of First  Los
Angeles  Bank. He was chairman from 1973 to 1989.  In 1999, President  Bill Clinton  named Manatt U.S.
ambassador to the Dominican Republic, a post he held until the
end of Clinton’s presidency in 2001.  He had three children with his wife, Kathleen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net . 