-- 
China Safe From Local Debt Blowout for Now, PBOC Adviser Says

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   R u a n
-- 
2011-07-23T10:15:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/china-safe-from-local-debt-blowout-for-now-pboc-adviser-says.html
China  has at least two years to
sort out its mountain of local government debt, which poses a
“very serious” risk for the fastest-growing economy over the
longer term, People’s Bank of China adviser Zhou Qiren said.  The country’s first audit of domestic government debt found
liabilities of 10.7 trillion yuan ($1.7 trillion) at the end of
2010, 79 percent of which were bank loans, the National Audit
Office said in June. As much as 30 percent of domestic
government financing vehicles’ loans may fail and become the
biggest contributor to lenders’ bad debts, ratings agency
Standard and Poor’s has said.  The local government debt won’t cause a systemic risk to
the economy this year or next, Zhou said at a symposium on
 China’s economy  held by the National School of Development at
 Peking University  in Beijing today. Still, Zhou, also a
professor at the university, said the issue reflects “the basic
problem in the relationship between the government and ordinary
people,” as any default would burden taxpayers.  He said the “land finance” system, under which local
governments acquire land from farmers at very cheap prices and
use them as collateral to borrow money from banks to finance
infrastructure projects, has partly driven the excessive growth
in China’s  money supply .  The M2, the broadest gauge of money supply, surged to 72
trillion yuan by 2010 from 18.5 trillion yuan in 2002, he said.  The land system and the government-directed urbanization
helped cause the country’s high inflation, he said.  “China needs a prudent fiscal policy, otherwise a high
growth can be hardly sustained,” he said.  Both Zhou and Jia Kang, head of finance ministry’s
Institute of Fiscal Science, suggested the government allow
local authorities’ financing vehicles to issue bonds to reduce
reliance on bank loans backed by land sales. Currently, China
has only started a trial on the bond sales on a limited basis.  Risks that under certain circumstances might “trigger
crisis in some regions and hurt the government’s credibility”
may be found in some local projects funded with debt, Jia said
at the same symposium. 