-- 
Clinton: S. China Sea Spats Threaten Asia Peace

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-07-23T04:50:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/clinton-warns-escalating-south-china-sea-spats-threaten-asia-peace-trade.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  warned today that escalating tensions in the South  China 
Sea risk disrupting trade flows and called on Asian countries to
clarify territorial claims.  “The  United States  is concerned that recent incidents in
the South China Sea threaten the peace and stability on which
the remarkable progress of the Asia-Pacific region has been
built,” Clinton told a regional security forum in Bali,
 Indonesia . “These incidents endanger the safety of life at sea,
escalate tensions, undermine freedom of navigation, and pose
risks to lawful unimpeded commerce.”  Clinton commended China and the 10-member  Association of
Southeast Asian Nations  for agreeing to guidelines for joint
activities in the waters last week and urged them to accelerate
a legally binding code of conduct. She called on countries to
“exercise self-restraint” and avoid occupying uninhabited
islands in the disputed waters.  The U.S.’s alliance with the Philippines and naval power in
the Asia-Pacific has led to tensions with China, which claims
most of the  South China Sea  as its own. The Philippines and
 Vietnam  have pushed ahead with oil and gas exploration over
objections from China, which has used patrol boats to disrupt
hydrocarbon survey activities in disputed waters.  ‘Clarify Claims’  Clinton called on the countries “to clarify their claims
in the South China Sea in terms consistent with customary
international law, including as reflected in the Law of the Sea
Convention,” Clinton said, according to prepared remarks that
were given to reporters. “Consistent with international law,
claims to maritime space in the South China Sea should be
derived solely from legitimate claims to land features.”  Clinton is asking states to lay out their claims very
clearly and unambiguously and to explain the legal basis for
them, said a State Department official present for meetings on
the South China Sea. That will force countries to look carefully
at their approach, especially given that almost all claims to
the waters are exaggerated, the official said, speaking on
condition of anonymity.  The U.S. has not ratified the United Nations Law of the Sea
Convention.  ‘Nine-Dash Map’  China last week rejected an attempt by the  Philippines  to
have the UN’s International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea
decide on the territorial dispute. The Philippines plans to ask
another UN arbitration panel to demarcate disputed areas of the
sea “to prove our claim,” Foreign Secretary Albert F. del Rosario said on July 20.  Along with the Philippines, Vietnam and Indonesia have
released  statements  to the UN saying China’s “nine-dash map”
of the waters has no basis in international law.  China says its claims “are supported by abundant
historical and legal evidence,” according to an April
submission to the UN. It said the Philippines “started to
invade and occupy” its islands in the 1970s.  Chinese ships cut survey cables of Vietnam Oil & Gas Group
vessels twice in the past few months and in March chased away a
boat working for U.K.-based  Forum Energy Plc (FEP)  that was surveying
the area. A Chinese frigate fired warning shots at Philippine
trawlers on Feb. 25.  China’s actions in the waters provoked protests in Hanoi
over the past month and prompted a group of Filipino lawmakers
to travel last week to the disputed Spratly Islands, which are
also claimed by  Malaysia ,  Taiwan ,  Brunei , Vietnam and China. All
those countries except Brunei have troops stationed in the area.  “We believe that it’s important to respect the sovereignty
and territorial integrity of China,” Liu Weimin, spokesman for
Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi , told reporters yesterday after his
meeting with Clinton. “I sense that the U.S. side understands
the sensitivities of these issues.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bali at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Bali at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  