-- 
Congo’s Gecamines, OM Venture Lose Appeal of $100 Million Debt Claim by FG

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-07-23T14:45:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/congo-s-gecamines-om-venture-lose-appeal-of-100-million-debt-claim-by-fg.html
A Jersey court rejected appeals by a
joint venture partly owned by  OM Group Inc. (OMG) , the world’s biggest
cobalt producer, and Democratic Republic of Congo’s state-owned
Gecamines over a $100 million debt claim.  The Jersey Court of Appeal upheld a lower court’s decision
that FG Hemisphere Associates LLC, a distressed-debt fund, could
seize payments by OM Group’s Groupement pour le Traitement du
Terril de Lubumbashi Ltd., or GTL, to Gecamines to pay off a
debt owed by the Congolese state, according to a judgment
published on the Jersey Law website yesterday.  Congo owes more than $100 million in principal, penalties,
and interest to FG Hemisphere for a debt the fund purchased from
a Sarajevo-based company that built electricity projects in
Congo in the 1980s. The New York-based fund has attempted to
seize Congo’s assets in jurisdictions around the world to
collect the debt.  Two of the court’s three judges agreed that Gecamines was
liable for the debt because it is “an organ of the state,”
while all concurred that the Jersey courts could enforce the
debt because GTL is registered in the British Crown dependency.
Gecamines can appeal the decision to the Judicial Committee of
the Privy Council, the court of final appeal for U.K. overseas
territories and Crown dependencies.  Debt Recalculation  Through March 31, an injunction by the Jersey courts had
already frozen $74.8 million owed to Gecamines by GTL, according
to  Cleveland , Ohio-based OM Group’s first-quarter report. GTL, a
venture between OM Group, Gecamines and George Forrest
International SA, operates a smelter in Congo that is OM Group’s
primary source of cobalt.  Spokesmen for OM Group and George Forrest and officials for
Gecamines didn’t immediately respond to e-mail and mobile-phone
message requests for comment outside of normal business hours.  The court also proposed an order that Congo’s debt to FG
Hemisphere should be recalculated using simple interest instead
of compound interest, which would reduce the total owed,
according to the judgment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ana Monteiro at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net  