-- 
Colombia’s Ecopetrol Seeking $1.4 Billion in Sale to Finance Output Gains

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-07-25T20:51:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/ecopetrol-to-raise-1-4-billion-in-biggest-colombia-share-sale-in-4-years.html
Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) , the Colombian state-
owned  oil company , said it will sell as much as $1.41 billion of
stock in the country’s largest share sale in about four years as
it aims to fund investments to double production.  About 676 million shares, representing a 1.67 percent
stake, will be offered for 3,700 pesos ($2.09) apiece, the
Bogota-based company said July 22 on the Colombian securities
regulator’s website. The offer will start July 27 and run until
Aug. 17, it said. The stock closed at 3,705 pesos on July 22.  Ecopetrol is seeking to tap investor demand for Colombian
assets after the country earlier this year earned an investment-
grade rating from  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors
Service. The share sale, which will help fund an $80 billion
spending program to boost output to about 1.3 million barrels a
day this decade, is Colombia’s largest since Ecopetrol’s $2.7
billion initial public offering in 2007.  “They need a lot of resources since there is a lot of
investment,” said Mauricio Restrepo, an analyst at brokerage
Bolsa y Renta, who doesn’t own Ecopetrol shares and rates the
stock a “hold.” “Their expansion plan is pretty aggressive.”  The offer will also be the largest by an oil company in
 Latin America  since  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s state-
controlled oil producer, raised $70 billion in September in the
world’s largest share sale, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  BP Acquisition  Ecopetrol’s production rose 22 percent last quarter after
it bought BP Plc’s assets in Colombia earlier this year. Profit
in the period more than doubled to 3.75 trillion pesos, from
1.77 trillion pesos a year earlier, as  oil prices  rallied, the
company said July 21.  “It won’t be hard to place these shares,” Ricardo Bernal,
head analyst at Bogota-based brokerage Serfinco SA, said in a
telephone interview. “Ecopetrol has been increasing its
reserves, so the sale can go toward plans like acquisitions.”  Ecopetrol is exploring the plains and jungles of  Colombia ,
the U.S. Gulf of  Mexico  and in neighboring Brazil and  Peru .
Second-quarter output rose to 727,200 barrels a day, from an
average 594,400 barrels a year earlier. The company’s average
output in 2010 was 615,900 barrels a day. Ecopetrol plans to
produce 1 million barrels per day in 2015, in part from
acquisitions.  International Investments  Ecopetrol rose 65 pesos, or 1.8 percent, to 3,770 pesos in
trading in Bogota. The stock has fallen 8.1 percent this year,
while Colombia’s benchmark Colcap index has dropped 8.2 percent.  Buyers paying cash for new shares will be able to purchase
at a price of 3,608 pesos, Chief Executive Officer  Javier Gutierrez  said at a news conference July 22.  International investment in the development of oil and
natural gas fields in Colombia may rise to $8 billion this year,
Serfinco’s Bernal said. The nation’s output may more than double
by 2020 to 2 million barrels a day as Ecopetrol and other
companies drill more wells, CEO Gutierrez said in a May
interview. Billionaires  Carlos Slim  and  Brazil ’s  Eike Batista 
are among those seeking to tap the country’s natural resources.  Crude for September delivery dropped 67 cents, or 0.7
ercent, to settle at $99.20 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
xchange. Prices have increased 26 percent in the past year.  Asian Exports  Ecopetrol is increasing exports by tapping new markets for
its oil in Europe and  Asia , Juan David Pineros, an oil analyst
at Interbolsa SA, Colombia’s biggest brokerage, said July 21.  The company may no longer ship the majority of its oil to
the U.S. in 10 years because Asia sales will be more profitable,
Ecopetrol’s Gutierrez said in May. In June, the company for the
first time loaded a cargo ship headed for  China  with 2 million
barrels of crude, after expanding a port in northern Colombia.  Exports to the  Far East  were 27 percent of sales in the
first half, up from 22 percent a year earlier, while sales to
the U.S. Gulf Coast slid to 47 percent from 59 percent.  Colombia’s government separately plans to sell as much as a
10 percent stake in Ecopetrol, Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said in May. The government owns almost 90 percent of
the company. A sale probably won’t take place until 2012 since
it requires congressional approval, according to Bernal.  Credit Rating  Rising investment in oil and mining, faster economic growth
and government inroads against guerrilla groups in the last
decade helped Colombia garner its investment credit rating.  The country was raised to Baa3, the lowest level of
investment grade, from Ba1 by Moody’s on May 31, while S&P
increased Colombia to BBB- on March 16. The Andean nation’s
economy grew 5.1 percent in the first quarter, the fastest pace
since the fourth quarter of 2007, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  