-- 
Egypt’s Leader Seeks Order After Clashes

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-07-24T00:38:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/egypt-s-leader-seeks-order-after-clashes-injure-more-than-200.html
Egypt ’s government sought to restore
order after clashes erupted in central Cairo between supporters
and opponents of the military ruling council, according to a
posting by the nation’s Cabinet.  Protesters used knives and swords in the clashes yesterday
and the army blocked the road leading to the defense ministry in
Cairo, Al Jazeera reported. Egypt’s health ministry said at
least 231 people were injured, the Middle East News Agency
reported, quoting Abdel-Hamid Abatha, the health minister.  Egyptian Prime Minister Essam Sharaf called on political
leaders and protesters to work on restoring order in the city,
according to the posting.  In  Saudi Arabia , the government said allegations by  Amnesty
International  that an anti-terrorism law under consideration
will be used to suppress dissent “are baseless,” the official
 Saudi Press Agency  reported yesterday, citing  a statement  from
the kingdom’s U.K. embassy.  Amnesty International  said the proposed law will pose “a
serious threat to freedom of expression in the kingdom,”
according to a statement on its website.  An anti-terrorism draft law is under review at the Saudi
Shoura Council, an appointed advisory body, SPA added.  In  Syria , a train derailed in Homs yesterday en route to
Damascus from Aleppo with more than 480 passengers, most of whom
were patients traveling to undergo surgeries, the Syrian news
agency, SANA, said. The driver of the train died, SANA reported.  ‘Subversive Act’  “For sure, it is a subversive act,” George Essa, director
of the railways authority in Homs, told the private website
Syria News, according to  Deutsche Presse-Agentur .  The incident took place hours after mass anti-government
protests across the country, in which at least nine people were
killed, according to the opposition Local Coordination
Committees of Syria, DPA reported.  Syria’s Army War College in Homs was struck by explosions
in what may indicate divisions within the country’s military,  Al
Jazeera  reported, citing a witness. Thirty soldiers and security
personal were injured by “terrorist groups,” the official
Syrian Arab News Agency said. The government denied reports that
the military was divided.  In Yemen, two girls were killed and a boy injured when
gunmen targeted their house in the province of Taiz, SABA said,
citing an unidentified military official.  NATO aircraft struck at targets in the southeast of Libya’s
capital, Tripoli, early today, the  Associated Press  reported,
citing state television. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization
is supporting rebels trying to oust Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  with an air campaign that is in its fifth month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Dubai at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  