-- 
Lehman Brokerage Challenges $1.1 Billion Award to Barclays

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-07-23T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/lehman-brokerage-trustee-appeals-1-1-billion-award-to-barclays.html
The trustee overseeing the
liquidation of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s brokerage is
appealing a ruling that awarded  Barclays Plc (BARC)  $1.1 billion,
according to a court filing.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck ordered Barclays in June
to return $2 billion in margin assets to the trustee, and pay 5
percent interest. The trustee was told to return about $1
billion to the U.K. bank, and additional assets of $769 million,
if they weren’t needed for customers. The trustee said in the
appeal filed in U.S. District Court in Manhattan that he wanted
9 percent interest on the margin assets, not 5 percent.  The dispute, arising from Barclays’s September 2008
purchase of bankrupt Lehman’s businesses and subsequent profit
on them, led to a bankruptcy court trial in 2010 with more than
30 days of testimony. The trial pitted the third-biggest U.K.
bank against two defunct parts of what was once the fourth-
largest U.S. investment bank.  Barclays, based in  London , and the Lehman brokerage
continued their quarrel after Peck’s February ruling didn’t
specify how they must divide some components of the assets, held
to back trades taken over by Barclays with the purchase.  The $1.1 billion in trading assets at issue were held in
so-called clearance boxes to clear trades and should have been
transferred to London-based bank Barclays in September 2008,
according to court papers.  On July 15, Barclays appealed the order to pay $2 billion
to Lehman’s brokerage unit.  Michael O’Looney, a Barclays spokesman, declined to comment
on the appeal.  The Lehman brokerage trustee, James W. Giddens, didn’t
immediately return a call or e-mail seeking comment.  The case is SIPC v.  Lehman Brothers Inc ., 08-ap-1420,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 