-- 
Franc Reaches Record Versus Dollar on U.S. Debt Ceiling Impasse; Yen Gains

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-07-25T21:11:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/euro-rallies-versus-dollar-as-european-summit-eases-region-s-debt-turmoil.html
Switzerland ’s franc strengthened to
a record against the dollar on demand for the safest assets as
U.S. lawmakers failed to agree on raising the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt ceiling and Greece’s credit rating was cut.  The franc also appreciated toward a record versus the euro,
while the yen rose against 15 of 16 major peers. U.S.
Republicans and Democrats discussed dueling plans for raising
the debt ceiling and cutting the nation’s deficit, seeking to
break a partisan stalemate amid market concern about a potential
default Aug. 2. The euro slid against the yen as Moody’s
Investors Service downgraded Greece to its second-lowest rating.  “People just do not want to own euros or dollars,” said
 John McCarthy , managing director of  currency trading  at ING
Groep NV in New York. “We’ve seen sharp strengthening in both
the Swiss franc and the yen and some relative strength in
Aussie, kiwi and  Canada .”  Switzerland’s franc gained 2.1 percent against the dollar
to reach a record 80.21 centimes and was 1.6 percent stronger at
80.61 centimes as of 5 p.m. in New York. Versus the euro, the
franc appreciated 1.5 percent to 1.15885. It reached a record
1.13737 on July 18.  The dollar weakened 0.3 percent to 78.29 yen after reaching
78.06, the least since March 17. The U.S. currency fell 0.1
percent to $1.4377 against the euro. The euro fell 0.2 percent
to 112.55 yen.  Finding Alternatives  Higher yielding currencies, which tend to underperform in
periods of elevated risk, rose against the dollar as investors
sought countries with more attractive and stable balance sheets.  “The old trade of risk-on, risk-off by the commodity
currencies may be replaced by a more sober view of their balance
sheets,” said Boris Schlossberg, director of research at online
currency trader GFT Forex in  New York . “It’s a recognition of
currencies whose economies have better balance sheet positions
than the U.S.”  Canada’s dollar was little changed against the dollar at
94.72 cents per  U.S. dollar  after gaining as much as 0.5
percent. The rand snapped a four-day advance and depreciated as
much as 1.1 percent, the most in a week, to 6.8475 per dollar.  Franc Gains  The franc gained 1.6 percent today, making it the best
performer according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes, which track the currency against nine developed
nations. The yen added 0.2 percent, while the dollar was 0.2
percent weaker, the indexes show.  U.S. House Speaker John Boehner’s two-step debt-limit plan
would raise the U.S. borrowing limit by up to $1 trillion and
later by about $1.6 trillion while requiring $1.2 trillion in
spending cuts in the first phase and up to $1.8 trillion in the
second step, according to Republican aides. President  Barack Obama  has threatened to veto a two-step extension to the debt
ceiling.  Senator Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said he will introduce a
plan that would cut $2.7 trillion in spending. The debate has
fueled concern the nation is lurching toward a default as early
as Aug. 2 and jeopardizing its AAA credit rating.  “Politicians have shot themselves in the foot in that the
government will prioritize its payments,” said  Jessica Hoversen , a New York-based analyst at the futures broker MF
Global Holdings Ltd. “They’ve used it as a bargaining chip and
now the market is so focused on it.”  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  today reassured  China ,
the top foreign holder of American debt, that the U.S. will
resolve the impasse, while People’s Bank of China adviser Xia
Bin said he remains confident an agreement will be reached.  Dollar Index  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners including the
euro, yen and pound fell 0.1 percent to 74.111. The index
reached 73.889 on July 21, the lowest since June 9.  The euro dropped for the first time in three days against
the franc after Moody’s slashed its long-term foreign-currency
debt rating on  Greece  to Ca from Caa1. The European Union
support package for Greece allows an “orderly default” and
buys time, Moody’s said.  “People are looking at the problems in  Europe  as the
crisis is far from over,” said  Mark McCormick , a currency
strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York.
“Greece was downgraded again and that has led to a little bit
of a flare up in peripheral tensions. People are still a little
bit cautious.”  Italian and Spanish securities slid amid concern euro-area
leaders may struggle to win support for the measures from euro-
area members.  Italy’s 10-year government bond yield surged 26 basis
points to 5.66 percent after reaching a euro-era record of 6.027
percent July 18. The Spanish 10-year yield jumped 26 basis
points to 6.03 percent.  Gains in  Japan ’s currency were limited after it reached
levels that spurred coordinated selling of the currency in
March.  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said today that
the yen’s strength could hurt the economy and the central bank
is ready to take appropriate action as needed.  Group of Seven nations jointly sold the yen on March 18
after it reached a postwar record of 76.26 to the dollar the
previous day, saying in a statement they wanted to reduce
“excess volatility and disorderly movements.” Japan’s  Finance
Ministry  sold 692.5 billion yen that month in its first currency
intervention since September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  