-- 
Teva Signals Buy After World’s Biggest Drop: Israel Overnight

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 
2011-07-24T15:17:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/teva-signals-buy-after-world-s-biggest-drop-israel-overnight.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
the world’s worst-performing healthcare company this year, has
more buy recommendations than  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and Sanofi as analysts
bet the Israeli maker of generic drugs will boost profits.  Teva, whose American depositary receipts plunged 8.4
percent this year as competition grew against its multiple
sclerosis injection treatment Copaxone, is looking for new
sources of growth and will consider more acquisitions, Chief
Executive Officer Shlomo Yanai told analysts on May 16. The
decline pushed the Petach Tikva-based company to $47.76 on the
Nasdaq Stock Market, or less than 10 times estimated earnings,
compared with 12.32 for the S&P 500 Health Care Index.  “It has been under a lot of pressure lately, but Teva
under $50 is a great opportunity,” Gadi Beer, who manages $25
million including Teva shares in his Amidex35  Israel  Mutual
Fund, said by telephone from Willow Grove,  Pennsylvania . “At
this price, there’s nowhere else to go but up.”  More than 80 percent of analyst ratings compiled by
Bloomberg for the world’s largest producer of generic medicine
are buy recommendations, compared with 74 percent for Basel,
Switzerland-based Novartis and 63 percent for Paris-based
Sanofi. Teva’s drop this year was the biggest among 117
healthcare companies with a minimum market value of $10 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Copaxone Competition  Copaxone, which accounted for 22 percent of Teva’s sales in
the last reported quarter, faces competition from the first
multiple sclerosis pill, Novartis’ Gilenya. An April trial of
laquinimod, a multiple sclerosis pill under development by
Active Biotech AB and Teva, fell short of expectations from
Credit Suisse Group AG analysts.  Teva said on May 16 it agreed to buy a 57 percent stake in
Taiyo Pharmaceutical Industry Co. for $460 million to benefit
from  Japan ’s push to broaden the use of copycat medicines. Teva
outbid Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. on May 2 for
Cephalon Inc. in a $6.2 billion deal.  The Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index of the largest Israeli
companies traded in  New York  rose 1 percent last week to 611.01.
The measure is down 2.2 percent this year.  Israel’s benchmark TA-25 Index gained 0.3 percent to
1,266.73 at the 4:30 p.m. close in  Tel Aviv  after a 1 percent
advance last week. It has lost 4.5 percent this year, or 0.4
percent in dollar terms, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Teva’s
Tel Aviv-traded shares dropped 0.3 percent today to 161.90
shekels.  Multiple Sclerosis  Teva said that an April 12 trial of laquinimod showed the
drug reduced relapses by 23 percent compared with a placebo.
Laquinimod was expected to reduce relapses by 25 percent to 30
percent, analysts at Credit Suisse Group including Ravi Mehrotra
wrote in a note on April 7.  Multiple sclerosis, which affects about 2.1 million people
worldwide, is a chronic and incurable disease that destroys the
nerves and robs patients of their ability to control their
movements. Many patients have trouble staying on current
therapies because they’re difficult to use or cause side
effects, according to the  National Multiple Sclerosis Society .  Teva will probably say second-quarter adjusted earnings
rose to $1.09 per share from $1.08 in the same period last year,
according to the median estimate of 22 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The company will announce the results on July 27.  “The main reason for the underperformance this year is
Copaxone,” said David Buck, an analyst at Buckingham Research
Group in New York, who lowered his price estimate for the shares
last week to $62 from $66. “It’s the generic competition
concern.”  Buck also reduced his second-quarter earnings per share
estimate to $1.06 from $1.08, according to a report on July 22.
He maintains his “buy” rating for the company.  Teva has lagged behind Novartis’ 7.9 percent decline this
year and Sanofi’s 15 percent gain.  Venture Capital  Israel, whose population of 7.7 million is similar to
 Switzerland ’s, has 58 companies traded on the  Nasdaq , the most
of any country outside the U.S. after  China . It is also home to
the largest number of startup companies per capita in the world.  Israeli technology companies raised $569 million in capital
during the second quarter of 2011, the most in two years and up
from $343 million in the same period last year, according to the
Israel Venture Capital-KPMG Quarterly Survey released July 13.  Israel’s stock market was upgraded to developed market
status by MSCI Inc. in May 2010, the same month the 63-year-old
country was accepted to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  The shekel was unchanged at 3.3964 per  U.S. dollar  on July
22. The currency has increased 6.8 percent versus the dollar
over the past six months, the third-best performer among 10
emerging markets in  Europe ,  Middle East  and  Africa  tracked by
Bloomberg.  EZchip Profit  EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH) , the Israeli maker of network
processors that counts Cisco Systems Inc. as a customer, rose
2.2 percent to $34.62 on July 22. EZchip fell 2.4 percent to
118.10 shekels in Tel Aviv today.  The company will probably rise 9.8 percent to $38 in the
next 12 months, up from a previous estimate of $35, Jay Srivatsa, an analyst at Chardan Capital Markets LLC in New York,
wrote in an e-mailed report dated July 22.  EZchip will probably say it expects third-quarter revenue
of $18.6 million to $19 million, beating estimates of $18.5
million, Srivatsa said. The company is scheduled to report
second-quarter earnings on Aug. 3.  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) , the biggest Israeli maker of
data-center adapters and software, climbed to a record after
reporting second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates.
The shares soared 20 percent in the two days following the
company’s earnings’ report to $34.32, the biggest two-day
advance on record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Tel Aviv-traded shares rose 9 percent today to 113.70
shekels, or the equivalent of $33.48.  *T Members of the Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index:  Allot Communications Ltd. Alon Holdings Blue Square Israel Ltd.
Cellcom Israel Ltd. Ceragon Networks Ltd. Check Point Software
Technologies Ltd. ClickSoftware Technologies Ltd. Elbit Systems
Ltd.  EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH)  Fundtech Ltd. Given Imaging Ltd.
Internet Gold-Golden Lines Ltd. Ituran Location and Control Ltd.
Mellanox Technologies Ltd. Ness Technologies Inc.  Nice Systems
Ltd. (NICE)  Orbotech Ltd. Partner Communications Company Ltd. Prolor
Biotech Inc. Protalix BioTherapeutics Inc. Radware Ltd. Retalix
Ltd.  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA)  Syneron Medical Ltd.  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  Tower Semiconductor Ltd. 