-- 
Yudhoyono Vows to Clean Up His Party

-- B y   F e m i   A d i   a n d   A g u s   S u h a n a
-- 
2011-07-24T12:46:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/indonesia-s-democrats-vow-makeover.html
Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono won a pledge from his Democrat Party to back his anti-
graft policies after corruption and police scandals undercut his
public approval ratings.  The party will support legal institutions including the
 Corruption Eradication Commission  and the police to eradicate
graft, collusion and nepotism, Secretary General Edhie Baskoro
Yudhoyono said in Sentul, West Java, today after a two-day
meeting. In June, the commission named the party’s treasurer,
Muhammad Nazaruddin, as a suspect in a bribery case.  Yudhoyono, who helped secure a second five-year term in
2009 by promising to clean up graft, is trying to improve his
party’s image before campaigning begins for elections in 2014.  “The Nazaruddin’s case has the potential to do a lot of
damage to Yudhoyono’s credibility,” said Sunarto Ciptoharjono,
executive director of Jakarta-based  Indonesian Survey Circle , an
independent pollster.  Yudhoyono’s public support fell to a record low of 47.2
percent in the latest Indonesian Survey Circle poll. More than
43 percent said they were unsatisfied with his performance,
according to the poll of 1,200 respondents taken nationwide June
1-7. The study had an error margin of 2.9 percentage points.  ‘Clean And Smart’  “Our principles are to be clean and smart while following
a code of ethics,” President Yudhoyono said at the start of the
meeting. “We have to stick to those principles.”  Nazaruddin, who has fled the country, is accused of
accepting bribes associated with buildings for the Southeast
Asia Games to be held in November. Nazaruddin said in an
interview  broadcast  July 19 on Metro TV he fled the country
because the investigation was politically motivated.  Yudhoyono called on Nazaruddin to return to Indonesia and
face legal proceedings.  Even before the Nazaruddin case Yudhoyono was struggling to
contain scandals. In October 2009 he fired Antasari Azhar as
chairman of the anti-graft agency after police named him a
suspect in a murder case. He was found guilty and sentenced to
18-years in prison in February last year.  The  Corruption Eradication Commission  in May  reported  the
wife of the country’s former deputy police chief was a suspect
in a vote-buying scandal for the election of Bank Indonesia
Senior Deputy Governor Miranda Gultom in 2004.  Corruption Index  Indonesia ’s ranking in  Transparency International ’s
corruption perception index  gained  one place to 110 in 2010, 24
slots above the  Philippines . The index measures the perceived
level of public-sector corruption in 178 countries and
territories around the world, according to its website.  Yudhoyono has promised to double spending on roads, ports
and airports to $140 billion by the end of his term in 2014, and
the government raised its economic growth forecast for the
economy’s expansion next year to as much as 7 percent on rising
exports and investments, Melchias Mekeng, head of the
parliament’s budget committee, said July 5. That compares with a
projection of as much as 6.9 percent in May.  Indonesia is one step away from its first investment-grade
 credit rating  since the Asian financial crisis hit the country
in 1997.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net ;
Agus Suhana in Jakarta at 
 asuhana1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  