-- 
Iranian Nuclear Scientist Is Assassinated in Tehran, Mehr News Agency Says

-- B y   Z a i d   S a b a h   A b d   A l h a m i d
-- 
2011-07-23T18:17:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/iranian-nuclear-scientist-is-assassinated-in-tehran-al-arabiya-reports.html
An Iranian scientist working in the
nation’s nuclear program was assassinated in Tehran today, the
state-run Mehr news agency reported, citing local police.  Dariush Rezaei was killed and his wife was injured when
assailants riding motorcycles opened fire in front of his home
in the capital, the agency said. Razaei, a university professor,
had a degree in neutron physics and worked in  Iran ’s nuclear
plant’s department, the Mehr agency reported.  Iran said in January that it was increasing protection for
its scientists following the assassination of two physicists
last year. Massoud Ali-Mohammadi, a professor of elementary
particle physics, was killed by a bomb outside his Tehran home
in January 2010. Majid Shahriari, a scientist involved in  Iran’s
nuclear program , died in a Tehran bombing Nov. 29. A second
blast in the capital on the same day injured Fereydoun Abasi, a
physicist who was linked to the nuclear program in a 2007 United
Nations resolution imposing sanctions on Iran.  Alireza Nourizadeh, a London-based scholar on Iran, told
Al-Arabiya television today that Rezaei was one of the
scientists involved in building the Iranian centrifuge system
and developing Iran’s long-range missiles.  Centrifuges are used to enrich uranium to a level
sufficient to drive a nuclear reaction. Iran’s 2004 decision to
resume building the units sparked criticism by the U.S.,
European Union and the  International Atomic Energy Agency .  Iran is under international pressure over its nuclear
program, which the U.S. and allies say is a cover for building
atomic weapons. Iran, which has accused  Israel  of involvement in
the earlier killings, rejects the claim and says it needs
nuclear technology to secure energy for its growing population.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Digby Lidstone at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net  