-- 
Netflix Said to Be in Talks on Streaming Rights With DreamWorks Animation

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-07-25T01:16:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/netflix-said-to-be-in-talks-on-streaming-rights-with-dreamworks-animation.html
DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)  is in
talks to offer  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  exclusive streaming rights to its
films, replacing a pay-TV accord with HBO, a person with
knowledge of the situation said.  An agreement may be reached as soon as this week, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the discussions
are continuing. Both companies plan to report quarterly results
this week and have scheduled conference calls with investors.  An exclusive accord would underscore the growing importance
of Internet streaming to studios, which have seen U.S. DVD sales
tumble. Netflix has signed digital distribution deals giving its
streaming service films from Viacom Inc.’s  Paramount Pictures ,
 Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  and Miramax.  DreamWorks Animation, maker of the “Shrek” films, has a
contract to deliver movies to  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s HBO through
2014, according to a Feb. 25 regulatory filing by the Glendale,
California-based company.  HBO, which has added Summit Entertainment films to its
premium-cable programming, has agreed to allow DreamWorks out of
the contract two years early, said a person with knowledge of
the situation who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly. This
would give Netflix access to DreamWorks releases from the
beginning of 2013. The Hollywood Reporter reported the HBO
development earlier.  Shannon Olivas, a spokeswoman for DreamWorks Animation,
declined to comment, as did  Steve Swasey , a spokesman for
Netflix.  ‘Shrek,’ ‘Madagascar’  Netflix, based in Los Gatos,  California , raised prices by
60 percent this month for U.S. subscribers who want both mail-
order and streaming services, citing the costs to acquire and
deliver films and TV shows. The company’s more than 23 million
subscribers will pay $15.98 monthly beginning Sept. 1 if they
choose both options or $7.99 for just one.  DreamWorks Animation, led by Chief Executive Officer
Jeffrey Katzenberg, announced in March its release plans for
films scheduled through 2014. They include “Puss In Boots” in
November, “Madagascar 3 and ‘‘Rise of the Guardians’’ next
year, three films in 2013 and two in 2014.  Since 2007, Netflix CEO Reed Hastings has increasingly
focused on delivering movies and television shows via the Web to
televisions, set-top boxes and mobile devices. Those include
Microsoft Corp.’s Xbox player and directly to some TV sets.  DreamWorks Animation rose 18 cents to $21.05 on July 22 in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have declined 29 percent
this year. Netflix rose 77 cents to $276.58 and has gained 57
percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  