-- 
Norway Killing Suspect’s Postings Offer Clues

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r ,   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r   a n d   T o b y   A l d e r
-- 
2011-07-24T17:35:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/norwegian-authorities-mine-online-postings-for-clues-to-breivik-s-motives.html
Online postings from Anders Behring Breivik, detained by Norwegian police for killing 93 people in a
shooting rampage and bombing, offer a portrait of a man obsessed
with what he views as the threat of multiculturalism and Islam.  In a  1,500-page English manifesto  posted hours before the
killings, Breivik, 32, describes nine years of planning the
attacks and his vision for revolution in  Europe  led by the
Knights Templar. Breivik has a picture posted of himself in a
Freemason outfit on the Facebook page bearing his name.  In the document entitled “2083 - A European Declaration of
Independence,” which Breivik began writing while he was still a
member of Norway’s opposition Progress Party, he describes how
the attacks would form part of a crusade against “cultural
Marxism” and the rising “Islamization” of Europe. He writes
that the massacre would serve as a tool to market the manifesto.  While Breivik has confessed to the killings in what was the
Nordic nation’s deadliest incident since World War II, he has
not pleaded guilty, Sveinung Sponheim, Oslo’s acting police
chief, said at a press conference today. “He said he believed
his actions were atrocious, but in his head they were
necessary,” Breivik’s lawyer Geir Lippestad told  Norway ’s TV2.  Search Operations  Police declined to speculate on a motive for the July 22
attacks that left at 86 people dead at a youth camp being held
by Norway’s ruling  Labor party  on Utoeya island 40 kilometers
(25 miles) from Oslo and seven dead in a car bomb blast that
occurred in the government district of the capital. About 97
people were injured in the attacks, of whom 67 were from the
island shootings, Sponheim said today. The death toll may rise
as search operations for the victims continue in the waters of
Utoeya and in the government buildings.  Breivik will appear in court tomorrow to be officially
charged in the killings and will be allowed to speak, the police
said. Breivik intends to explain himself at the hearing,
Lippestad told national broadcaster NRK. He could receive 21
years in prison, Norway’s toughest punishment, Deputy Oslo
Police Chief Roger Andresen said yesterday. The suspect has no
previous record of criminal offenses, Andresen said.  In a Feb. 17, 2010, posting on Norwegian website
 Document.no , Breivik wrote that “the problem is that it often
doesn’t help that 80 percent of Muslims are so-called
‘moderates,’ i.e. that they ignore the Koran. It takes very few
people to crash a plane.” He added that “for me it would be
hypocritical to treat Muslims, Nazis and Marxists differently.”  Progress Party  Breivik became a member of the anti-immigrant Progress
Party, Norway’s second biggest, in 1999 and paid his membership
fees until 2004, party spokesman Mazyar Keshvari said in an e-
mail yesterday. Breivik was also a member of the party’s youth
movement from 1997 to 2007, acting as deputy chairman for one of
the local Oslo chapters.  Breivik on his Facebook page lists John Stuart Mill’s “On
Liberty,” George Orwell’s “1984” and Franz Kafka’s “The
Trial” among his favorite books. “World of Warcraft” and
“Modern Warfare” were his preferred video games. Most of his
postings, the last of which was on July 18, relate to music
videos.  “One person with a belief is equal to the force of 100,000
who have only interests,” said the single posting on a Twitter
account bearing Breivik’s name, made on July 17, paraphrasing
Mill, an English philosopher and economist.  Norway Mourns  Breivik has said he acted alone and there are currently no
other suspects in the case, police said. Authorities said they
were still working to determine whether that’s true.  Hundreds overflowed onto the streets outside Oslo Cathedral
today, as the country’s leaders and royal family arrived in
motorcades and placed flowers outside before entering a packed
memorial service. Police cordoned off onlookers and well-
wishers, as others not able to get a glimpse of the proceedings
watched televised feeds through shop windows. Sitting on the
front row of the service, Norway’s King Harald V and Queen Sonja
wiped tears from their eyes.  “Today we are mourning,” an emotional Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg told the congregation. “Each and every one of those
who’ve left us is a tragedy. Together, it’s a national tragedy.
You should know that we are crying with you, we feel for you.”  Standing outside the cathedral before a sea of flowers and
candles, people hugged each other and cried.  “I feel like they are my kids,” Solange Jonassen, 41,
said standing outside the cathedral, just before leaving a
bouquet of flowers. “They need all the support possible, and
that’s why I’m here.”  Beslan  Breivik posted a four-part video summarizing his manifesto
on YouTube. The chapters are titled “The Rise of Cultural
Marxism,” “Islamic Colonization,” “Hope,” and “New
Beginning.” 2083 refers to the year a new European identity
will emerge. The video, which featured pictures of Breivik in
military uniform and pointing an assault rifle in a wet suit,
has since been removed.  “You cannot defeat Islamization or halt/reverse the
Islamic colonization of Western Europe without first removing
the political doctrines manifested through
multiculturalism/cultural Marxism,” Breivik writes in his
manifesto. “Multiculturalism equals the unilateral destruction
of Western culture.”  The attacks on the country that hosts the Nobel Peace Prize
were the deadliest in Europe since about 350 people were
massacred at a school in Beslan,  Russia , in 2004. Breivik’s
rampage on the island lasted 90 minutes, during which he called
on the youth to come to him for police protection, before
shooting them point-blank.  Evil World  The suspect, who was using a pistol and an automatic
machinegun, surrendered without any resistance when he was
finally approached by special police forces, Sponheim said. The
suspect, who was wearing a fake police uniform when arrested on
the island, was not a police officer, authorities said.  “We have in Europe our problems with migration and people
may try, because they are unhappy and unsuccessful themselves,
to make this the cause of their own failures,” Bo Huldt, a
professor in security policy at the Stockholm-based National
Defense College, said by telephone today.  “He would say this is an evil world and somebody has to
straighten it out and I am one of those,” Huldt said.  On his Facebook page, Breivik identified himself as single.
He attended Oslo Handelsgym, a business high school on Oslo’s
westside and said in a posting on Document.no, which publishes
political analysis articles, that he studied economics and
earned his first million kroner ($185,000) as an entrepreneur at
the age of 24.  Father  The suspect owns a farm in the small eastern town of Rena,
which is listed as Breivik Geofarm on his Facebook page. Breivik
bought 6 tons of fertilizer in May, Jan Kollsgaard, a director
at agricultural supply company Felleskjoepet, said yesterday.  Breivik’s father, who lives in the south of  France  and had
not been in contact with his son since 1995, sent an e-mail to
the newspaper  Verdens Gang  expressing his “deep sorrow and
horror over what has happened” and asking media to leave him in
peace with his “despair and sorrow,” the paper reported today.  “Warmth is being sent to us from all corners of the
world,” Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Stoere said at a separate
remembrance service held for the families of the Utoeya victims
today. “You are not alone. We’re the foundation on which you
can lean on. Friday’s events will take an entire future to
understand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net ;
Toby Alder in Oslo via the Stockholm bureau at 
 talder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  