-- 
‘Gang of Six’ Debt Plan Helps Derail Boehner’s Deal With Obama

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-07-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/obama-debt-limit-deal-with-boehner-upset-by-last-minute-gang-of-six-plan.html
President  Barack Obama , running out
of time to strike a deal to raise the  U.S. debt  ceiling, had
some bad news for House Speaker  John Boehner  on July 20.  The tax overhaul they had been discussing to raise $800
billion in revenue over a decade had to be bigger, Obama told
Boehner and House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  during an evening
meeting in the Oval Office. Obama’s new offer: $1.2 trillion.  A new proposal by the “Gang of Six,” a bipartisan group
of senators who were calling for $3.7 trillion in budget savings
over 10 years to slash the deficit, had changed the dynamics of
the accord that Obama and Boehner had been negotiating for weeks,
the president told the speaker.  The group, praised by both senior Republicans and Democrats
for its mix of spending cuts and tax increases, proposed a
bigger revenue target than Obama and Boehner were considering,
according to officials on  Capitol Hill  and at the White House
who gave their accounts of the talks on condition of anonymity.  And Obama, who had called for months for the sort of grand
bargain the gang was offering, was going to have a hard time
selling a deal that stopped short of that.  The turnabout ultimately led Boehner to walk out of the
talks, he said July 22, unraveling the progress that had been
made toward a sweeping compromise to slice $3.5 trillion from
the nation’s debt and raise the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling
before a default threatened Aug. 2.  Back to Beginning  The breakdown sent both sides back to the beginning with
little room left to reach a deal to boost the nation’s borrowing
authority in time to head off the default and avoid roiling
financial markets. Obama and Vice President  Joe Biden  met with
congressional leaders from both parties yesterday at the White
House in an effort to reach an accord.  Still, the stalemate persisted yesterday as Boehner and
Republicans prepared for a short-term debt-limit extension that
would defy Obama’s veto threat. Boehner said on Fox he had to
focus on “what is doable at the 11th hour.” House Minority
Leader Nancy Pelosi said Republicans had abandoned a deal in
order to protect “the wealthiest people in our country.”  U.S. equity futures and Treasuries dropped while gold rose
to a record as the stalemate fueled concern the nation will
default. Asian shares fell.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures expiring in September
lost 1.1 percent to 1,325.70 at 12:39 p.m. in  Tokyo , indicating
the measure will decline after rising within 1.4 percent of a
three-year high. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares in the
region slipped 1.1 percent. Yields on 10-year Treasuries gained
three basis points. Gold added as much as 1.4 percent to
$1,624.30 an ounce. Oil fell 1 percent.  ‘Bowl of Jell-O’  Boehner, of Ohio, said July 22 it was Obama “who walked
away from his agreement and demanded more money at the last
minute.” Hours after calling Obama to tell him he was ending
their negotiations, Boehner said: “Dealing with the White House
is like dealing with a bowl of Jell-O.”  It was the final breakdown in the private negotiations
between Obama and Boehner over a politically challenging debt-
reduction agreement both were eager to reach.  “We had very intense negotiations,” Obama said July 22.
“I’ve been left at the altar now a couple of times.”  The courtship began June 18, when Obama, 49, invited
Boehner, 61, for a round of golf at Andrews Air Force Base. The
two teamed up against Vice President Joe Biden, who was
spearheading bipartisan talks on the deficit with congressional
leaders, and  Ohio  Governor John Kasich, a friend of Boehner’s.  Golf Bet  More bonding session than policy debate, the president and
the speaker beat Kasich and Biden, winning $2 each. The golf
date proved a turning point, spurring Obama and Boehner to begin
one-on-one talks on a broad compromise. Four days later, Boehner
was at the White House meeting privately with Obama to sketch
out what the deal could look like.  The following day, Cantor, a  Virginia  Republican who has
cultivated ties to Tea Party-backed lawmakers leading the call
for spending cuts, abandoned the bipartisan Biden-led talks
after a half-dozen meetings. He said Democrats’ insistence on
raising taxes made an agreement impossible. The group had been
making slow but steady progress, identifying more than $1
trillion in spending cuts the two parties could agree on.  Corporate Jets  The following week, Obama held a news conference in which
he accused Republicans of siding with corporate-jet owners over
children and the elderly in the negotiations, and compared
Congress’s work ethic unfavorably with that of his pre-teen
daughters.  “The yellow light is flashing,” Obama said during the
June 30 news conference, warning of dire consequences if
Congress didn’t raise the borrowing limit before Aug. 2.
 Standard & Poor’s  said it would downgrade U.S. debt to junk
status in the event of a default, and the Senate canceled its
July 4 recess to continue talking.  The following Sunday, July 3, Boehner and Obama met
secretly at the White House to continue their talks. Enough
progress was made that Obama appeared at a White House briefing
on July 5 to say the nation had “a unique opportunity to do
something big to tackle our deficit,” and announce he was
summoning congressional leaders from both parties for talks at
the White House July 7.  Polling on Options  At the roughly 90-minute meeting, Obama polled
congressional leaders about what kind of deal they were seeking
-- a limited one of between $2 trillion and $2.5 trillion over a
decade, a medium-size agreement yielding about $3 trillion, or a
big deal to cut $4 trillion off the debt.  Obama and Boehner both wanted to go big.  Still, Boehner -- cognizant of intense opposition among
Republicans to any agreement that raised taxes -- cautioned that
there was “no imminent deal about to happen,” saying there
remained “serious disagreements.”  “We are this far apart,” Boehner told reporters,
spreading his arms to indicate the gulf between himself and the
president. Yet behind the scenes, his staff and Obama’s were
beginning to exchange paper on the contours of a compromise to
bridge that divide.  The White House was willing to consider major changes to
Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, including benefit cuts
that had previously been considered off-limits. Boehner was
willing to discuss a tax overhaul that would raise revenue,
until then dismissed by the Republicans as a tax increase.  Resistance Brewing  Boehner’s aides, including Chief of Staff Barry Jackson and
Policy Director Brett Loper, were haggling with Obama’s budget
director Jack Lew and legislative liaison Rob Nabors on the
details. Resistance was brewing in both parties to such a deal.  Meeting at the White House with Obama on July 8, Pelosi, of
 California  vented her displeasure about the prospect of
including Social Security and Medicare cuts in any deal, and
told him such a package wouldn’t garner support among
congressional Democrats.  On Capitol Hill, Boehner and other House leaders held a
press conference to reiterate their opposition to tax increases.
Still, negotiations continued into Saturday morning July 9, when
a round of negotiating among Boehner’s and Obama’s aides yielded
little progress in breaking remaining stalemates over details of
the tax rewrite and entitlement cuts.  Later that day, Boehner phoned the president at Camp David
to tell him he was pulling the plug on a broad deal and would
seek a more limited measure.  “Despite good-faith efforts to find common ground, the
White House will not pursue a bigger debt-reduction agreement
without tax hikes,” Boehner said in a statement after the call.  Obama was still pressing for the big deal. He called a news
conference on July 11 in which he ruled out the idea of signing
a stopgap debt-limit boost and argued that the time was ripe for
a major compromise to reduce the debt, whatever the political
difficulties.  ‘Eat Our Peas’  “We might as well do it now -- pull off the Band-Aid, eat
our peas,” he said.  That didn’t stop Republican resistance. Senate Republican
Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  proposed a fallback plan on
July 12 -- a “last choice” option, he called it -- that would
allow Obama to unilaterally raise the debt ceiling $2.4 trillion
in installments, requiring that the president lay out the same
amount of spending cuts and giving Republicans several
opportunities to vote “no.”  At the close of a White House meeting July 13, Cantor
pressed Obama about a shorter-term debt measure, prompting a
testy lecture from the usually low-key president.  Personally Negotiating  Leaning back from the table, Obama told Cantor that he’d
been personally negotiating the details of the debt deal for
weeks -- more than  Ronald Reagan  or  George W. Bush  would have
done -- because he wanted to reach a deal that was important for
the country. If Republicans sent him legislation he couldn’t
accept, he’d veto it and take it to the American people, Obama
said before closing the meeting.  Republicans announced they would move forward the next week
with legislation that would slash spending, cap future
expenditures, and condition a $2.4 trillion debt-ceiling
increase on passage of a balanced budget constitutional
amendment. Behind the scenes, though, Boehner and Cantor began
serious talks with Obama’s staff on a major compromise.  The  House Republicans  invited Obama’s chief of staff Bill Daley and Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  to Boehner’s
Capitol office suite on July 15 for a quiet meeting on a
framework for a tax overhaul, according to House Republican
leadership aides.  Geithner Talks  Over coffee and bagels at the White House July 17, with
Obama popping in periodically to check their progress, the four
negotiators, now joined by Lew, moved toward a deal to slash
discretionary spending by $1.2 trillion over a decade and set a
process for overhauling entitlements and the  tax code  within six
to eight months to save trillions more.  The White House would agree to cut $250 billion from
Medicare and trim Social Security benefits through a change in
the way their annual increase is calculated. Republicans would
agree to a tax rewrite that would raise no more than $800
billion while lowering rates, a number blessed by Geithner, the
Republican aides said.  The Treasury secretary denied yesterday that he ever signed
off on the figure, saying that deal was never sealed. “We were
getting closer, but we weren’t quite done yet,” Geithner said
on Fox.  ‘Grand Bargain’  The two sides remained divided over key details, including
an enforcement mechanism to ensure the entitlement and tax
targets were met. The White House rejected the Republicans’ idea
that future borrowing authority be conditioned on achieving the
goals, and Republicans opposed Obama’s insistence on raising
taxes on high earners while keeping them at the same level for
the middle class in the event the promised debt savings didn’t
materialize, the aides said.  On July 19, as Boehner’s staff awaited a counterproposal
from Obama’s aides, Democratic Senator Mark Warner of Virginia
and Republican Senator Saxby Chambliss of  Georgia , co-leaders of
the Gang of Six, stood before about 50 senators in an ornate
room on the first floor of the Capitol and pitched their long-
awaited “grand bargain.” Obama made a surprise appearance in
the White House briefing room to commend the outline, and
Treasuries rallied on expectations of a long-term debt-reduction
deal.  New Dynamics  The president’s team told Boehner’s that their bottom line
had changed based on the framework, a message Obama delivered to
the speaker in person the next day at the White House, the
Republican aides said. An administration official said the
senators’ plan had changed the political dynamics in the push
for a deal, making it harder to attract Democratic support for a
proposal with a smaller revenue increase. If Republicans
couldn’t agree to more revenue, Obama would have to scale back
the entitlement cuts he was willing to make.  Still, Obama had no inkling Boehner was abandoning the
talks until he began having trouble getting the speaker on the
phone and Jackson stopped returning aides’ e-mails beginning the
evening of July 21. Boehner’s office informed the president on
July 22 at about 3:30 p.m. that the speaker would call Obama in
two hours. Obama said he wanted to talk to Boehner right then
and was rebuffed, administration officials told reporters.  Phone Call  The call came in as scheduled, not long after House
Republican leadership aides finished briefing reporters about
Boehner’s decision.  “Up until sometime early today when I couldn’t get a phone
call returned, my expectation was that Speaker Boehner was going
to be willing to go to his caucus and ask them to do the tough
thing, but the right thing. I think it has proven difficult for
Speaker Boehner,” Obama said at the White House.  “In the end,” Boehner wrote in a letter to Republican
lawmakers detailing his decision, “we couldn’t connect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  