-- 
Treasuries Decline for First Time in Three Weeks as Deficit Talks Collapse

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-07-23T04:00:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/treasuries-decline-for-first-time-in-three-weeks-as-deficit-talks-collapse.html
Treasuries fell for the first time
in three weeks as talks collapsed between President  Barack Obama 
and House Speaker  John Boehner  over a deficit-cutting package as
part of an agreement that would lift the nation’s debt ceiling.  Two-year note yields touched the highest in almost two
weeks July 21 as  Standard & Poor’s  reiterated it saw a 50
percent chance of cutting the U.S. credit rating within three
months and European leaders reached a deal to stem  Greece ’s debt
crisis. Boehner said yesterday after markets closed he will
instead talk with Senate leaders on a way to avoid a U.S.
default. The U.S. will sell $99 billion in notes next week.  “It’s certainly a negative thing for Treasuries,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC in Philadelphia. “The deep divisions between the parties
make an agreement much tougher, but we still have the potential
for 11th-hour emergency measures.”  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes rose six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 2.96 percent yesterday in  New York ,
from 2.91 percent on July 15, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The price of the 3.125 percent securities due in May
2021 fell 15/32, or $4.69 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 3/8.  Thirty-year bond yields increased one basis point to 4.26
percent. Two-year note yields were up three basis points to 0.39
percent and reached 0.41 percent on July 21, the highest level
since July 8.  Treasuries pared weekly losses yesterday before Boehner’s
announcement amid bets Obama and lawmakers would reach a deal to
reduce the deficit, raise the debt limit and avert a default.  White House Meeting  Obama said late yesterday he summoned congressional leaders
of both parties to the White House today. He and Boehner have
confronted strife within their ranks and dwindling time to avert
a default as they pressed for a plan to boost the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt limit. The two leaders had discussed cutting
spending by trillions of dollars and overhauling the  tax code .  The Treasury has said the government, which reached the
borrowing ceiling on May 16, will run out of options to prevent
a default Aug. 2.  “I’m reluctant to conclude that this is the end of the
story,” David Beers, S&P’s global head of sovereign and
international public finance, said yesterday in a telephone
interview from  Washington . “There was always the possibility
that it might not be possible for the parties to find some
common ground, but let’s wait and see what the weekend brings.”  ‘Credible Solution’  S&P said earlier in a report that even if Congress raises
the limit in time to avert a default, it might lower the U.S.
AAA sovereign rating to AA+ with a negative outlook if a deal
isn’t accompanied by a “credible solution” on the debt burden.  Demand for the safety of  government securities  also ebbed
this week as a July 21 summit of European leaders loomed. After
eight hours of talks in Brussels, they announced 159 billion
euros ($229 billion) in new aid for Greece.  The leaders empowered their 440-billion euro rescue fund to
buy debt across stressed nations, helping to erect a firewall
around Spain and  Italy  even as they risked temporary default to
lighten the Greek debt burden. Bondholders will share a portion
of the bill.  “The market was beginning to price in some fears of
default in  Europe , and so it was oversold,” Christian Cooper,
head of U.S. dollar derivatives trading in New York at Jefferies
& Co., said yesterday. The firm is one of 20 primary dealers
that trade with the  Federal Reserve . “We are backing away from
the absolute crisis of the euro zone.”  Refuge Demand  U.S. government debt  returned 3 percent in the past three
months as Europe’s debt crisis spurred demand for the safest
securities, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1.1 percent.  Obama said late yesterday at the White House that “at
minimum” Congress must act to avoid a U.S. default that would
roil markets and damage the economy.  U.S. 30-year bond yields had the biggest intraday drop
since December 2010 on July 19, 13 basis points, after Obama
endorsed a $3.7 trillion deficit-cutting proposal by a
bipartisan group of senators to end the stalemate.  The plan, whose authors are known as the Gang of Six, faced
resistance from  House Republicans , who have continued to stress
opposition to a debt compromise that includes more taxes.  “They don’t want any tax increases,” Richard Gilhooly, an
interest-rate strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities unit in New York, said. “This is not going to fly.”  Note Auctions  Starting a week before the debt-limit deadline, the U.S.
will sell $35 billion of two-year securities, the same amount of
five-year notes and $29 billion of seven-year debt. The daily
auctions begin July 26. The sizes are the same as at the past
nine offerings of the three securities.  The 10-year yield will rise to 3.53 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey with the most recent forecasts
given the heaviest weightings. The median projection in June was
for 3.65 percent.  Economists have cut their forecasts for Treasury yields as
U.S. gross domestic product growth has slowed.  The pace of expansion slipped to 1.8 percent in the second
quarter, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists
before the Commerce Department reports the data on July 29.
Growth slowed from 3.1 percent in the final three months of 2010
to 1.9 percent in the first quarter of 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  