-- 
Reliance-BP Deal Approval, Retail Plan ‘Comforting,’ IL&FS Says

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-07-23T08:18:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/reliance-bp-deal-approval-retail-plan-comforting-il-fs-says.html
Suhas Naik, chief operating officer
at IL&FS Portfolio Management Services Ltd., which manages about
$100 million in assets, comments on the Cabinet’s approval for
BP Plc’s $7.2 billion deal to buy stakes in Reliance Industries
Ltd.’s oil and gas assets, and on the proposal to allow foreign
companies to own up to 51 percent in multi-brand retail stores.  BP will acquire a 30 percent interest in 21 of 23 blocks
proposed by Reliance, the companies announced in February. The
deal was approved yesterday by the Cabinet.  A panel of bureaucrats has proposed a minimum $100 million
investment by overseas retailers, a finance ministry official
with direct knowledge of the matter said late yesterday. The
Cabinet will take a final decision, according to the official.  “The moves are an indication that the government wants to
move forward fast. This is what the market was waiting to hear
for a long time. It is very comforting. The RIL-BP deal gives
clarity on the valuations of oil and gas business going forward.
It removes apprehensions the deal may fail after a drop in
output at Reliance’s KG-D6 gas field.”  “The FDI retail policy move is a first step in the right
direction. Now, it will have to be taken up by the cabinet and
political parties. Allowing foreign investment in retail is a
priority area for this government. High inflation will provide
the right background for the policy to be implemented without
much opposition.”  India  currently allows 51 percent ownership in retail shops
selling only one brand and 100 percent in cash-and-carry stores.  Retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc. have been lobbying
for the chance to sell products to India’s 1.2 billion people,
arguing they will lower prices and provide the scale that can
improve local food networks. Wholesale-price inflation in the
country quickened to an average 9.6 percent in 2010 and 2011,
from 2.4 percent in 2009, as food and fuel prices rose.  The central bank has raised its benchmark  interest rate  10
times starting March 2010 to rein in gains.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  