-- 
Saudi Arabia Denies Allegation Against New Draft Terrorism Law

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-07-23T13:25:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/saudi-arabia-denies-allegation-against-new-draft-terrorism-law.html
Saudi Arabia  denied allegations by
Amnesty International that an anti-terrorism law under
consideration will be used to suppress dissent in the kingdom,
the official  Saudi Press Agency  reported.  Saudi Arabia “would like to point out that Amnesty’s
concerns about this law are baseless,” the news service said,
citing  a statement  from the kingdom’s U.K. embassy. An anti-
terrorism draft law is under review at the Saudi Shoura Council,
an appointed advisory body, SPA added.  The planned anti-terrorism law will pose “a serious threat
to freedom of expression in the kingdom,”  Amnesty International 
said yesterday in a statement on its website after reviewing a
copy of the draft. It paves “the way for even the smallest acts
of peaceful dissent to be branded terrorism,”  Amnesty
International  said.  Islamic militants launched a serious of violent strikes in
Saudi Arabia to weaken the Al Saud ruling family’s control of
the world’s largest oil reserves and break the kingdom’s
relationship with its U.S. ally. Militants targeted Western
nationals in a campaign of kidnappings and bombings from 2003
until a crackdown, led by the Saudi Ministry of Interior,
suppressed extremist activity.  The definition of “terrorist crimes in the draft is so
broad that it lends itself to wide interpretation and abuse, and
would in effect criminalize legitimate dissent,” Amnesty said.  Terrorist crimes as defined by the legislation would
including “endangering” national unity, “halting the basic
law or some of its articles” or “harming the reputation of the
state or its position,” according to Amnesty International.  Al-Qaeda Challenge  Saudi Arabia has arrested 11,527 people since Sept. 11,
2001, for their alleged involvement in terrorism, the ministry
said on April 24. A Saudi court will try 85 suspected al-Qaeda
militants for their alleged roles in attacks against three
housing compounds in  Riyadh  in May 2003, the news service said
on July 3.  “The continued growth of al-Qaeda presents us with a
serious challenge, and policies that prevent this group from
establishing an affiliated network in the kingdom are
necessary,” SPA cited the embassy as stating. “Regional unrest
provides a breeding ground for new threats.”  Gulf Cooperation Council  members, including Saudi Arabia,
are concerned that instability in neighboring Yemen may be used
by al-Qaeda to plot attacks and destabilize the kingdom. The
Gulf group has tried to negotiate a settlement to Yemen’s unrest
after protests against President Ali Abdullah Saleh started in
January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  