-- 
Amy Winehouse, Grammy-Winning Jazz, Soul Singer, Dies at 27

-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-07-23T17:25:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/singer-amy-winehouse-found-dead-at-her-london-home-ap-says-citing-police.html
Amy Winehouse , the singer and
songwriter who shot to fame with “Rehab,” won five  Grammy
Awards  and sold more than 5 million albums, has died, the
 Associated Press  reported. She was 27.  Winehouse was found dead at her home in northern  London , AP
reported, citing police.  The U.K. star had hits with “Valerie” and “Love Is a
Losing Game,” mixing R&B, jazz and soul. Since 2007, she has
been in the news as much for her personal problems as for her
music. Paparazzi watched her every move as she battled alcohol
and drug addictions and suffered from poor health, depression
and eating disorders. She ran into trouble with the police and
in her marriage.  Winehouse’s first album, “Frank” (2003), showcased her
rich contralto voice. Her raw talent drew comparisons to Nina Simone, Billie Holiday and Sarah Vaughan as well as the more
recent stars Macy Gray and Lauryn Hill. Her second album, “Back
to Black,” led to critics calling her the finest British female
voice since Dusty Springfield. Many singers who followed her,
such as Kate Nash,  Lily Allen  and Duffy, were labeled “the new
Amy Winehouse.”  “This is the best female vocalist I’ve heard in my entire
career,” the U.K. singer  George Michael  said of Winehouse in a
2007 British Broadcasting Corp. interview. “And one of the best
writers. She’s a fantastic talent and we should support her.”  ‘I Can Sing’  Winehouse’s record company Universal said her sales were
boosted by her 2008 Grammy success. She tied the record for the
most awards for a female artist in a single night: best new
artist, best record, best female vocal, best song (for
“Rehab”) and best pop vocal album (for “Back to Black”). She
also won  Ivor Novello  songwriting prizes in the U.K.  “I knew I could sing,” Winehouse said in a 2004 BBC
interview. “But I always thought everyone could sing, that
everyone was born with a singing voice. Yes, I can sing, I have
a good voice but there’s so many people that can and do.”  As she became more famous, Winehouse’s appearance became
increasingly distinctive: lots of tattoos, enlarged Cleopatra
kohl wings around her eyes, bigger heels, shorter skirts, and
her beehive hair piled ever higher. Her pictures were
everywhere: stumbling out of bars, dressed only in bra and
shorts, clutching cigarettes and bottles. The U.K. tabloids
called her Declinehouse, Wino and Wineglass.  Universal Contract  Amy Jade Winehouse was born in London on Sept. 14, 1983, to
a taxi-driving father, Mitch, and pharmacy-technician mother,
Janis. She grew up in Southgate, north London. Her Jewish family
played records by singers such as Dinah Washington and  Frank
Sinatra . A young Amy also liked hip-hop and started writing
songs at age 14, going to the Sylvia Young Theatre School. She
was expelled at 16 for piercing her nose. She also attended the
BRIT School funded by the U.K. record industry.  Winehouse’s musician friend Tyler James passed her demo
tape to Universal, which was offering a contract for a jazz
vocalist and snapped her up. Winehouse shied away from cover
versions, commercially the safest course that someone with her
voice might follow, and co-wrote most of the songs on “Frank.”  Musician Mark Ronson, brought in to produce her next album
in 2006, added the sound of the girl groups of the 1960s.  Winehouse’s personal and musical lives were linked in the
lead track, “Rehab.” Reports began to focus on her weight loss
and bulimia. She appeared drunk on TV shows and when her
management urged her to have treatment, she wrote the song in
refusal with the chorus lyrics echoing, “They tried to make me
go to rehab, I said no, no, no.” Like Holiday, she channeled
her own anguish into songs and drugs.  ‘Back to Black’  The album’s second single “You Know I’m No Good” was
knowingly ironic and also led to the title of a DVD, “I Told
You I Was Trouble: Live in London.”  Ronson also had a hand in Winehouse’s hit “Valerie,”
originally on his album “Version” and a cover of a song by the
Zutons.  “Back to Black” -- a lament comparing a fading romance to
a death -- followed Winehouse’s short split with boyfriend Blake
Fielder-Civil. They married in secret during a trip to  Florida 
in May 2007 and became inseparable, though Winehouse said she
would attack him when she was drunk.  Fielder-Civil’s father urged fans to boycott her music,
saying he feared the couple would commit suicide or overdose.
When Winehouse was taken to the hospital and canceled part of a
European tour, her spokesman said she needed rest. Newspapers
said she had taken a mix of alcohol, cocaine, heroin and a
ketamine tranquilizer.  Arrested  The tour resumed, though in October, Winehouse and her
husband were arrested in  Norway  for possessing cannabis. Later,
Fielder-Civil was among those arrested on a charge of trying to
pervert the course of justice after an assault on a pub owner.
He remained in custody and pleaded guilty in June 2008. On July
21, he was sentenced to 27 months in prison for the crime.  With her husband behind bars, her remaining concert dates
were shambolic. She forgot the words to songs and ran offstage
for frequent breaks. She was booed, reduced to tears and swore
at audiences. Amid the furor, her U.S. dates were canceled.  In January, U.K. newspaper the Sun released a video of a
woman it said was Winehouse smoking  crack cocaine . The video was
passed to police, who questioned the singer without charging
her.  Winehouse was initially denied a U.S. visa to travel to the
2008 Grammy ceremony. She was later allowed entry, though she
was advised not to travel, so she performed via satellite.  She returned to the stage in May, though by the following
month she was diagnosed with early-stage emphysema. Her father
said her lungs were only at 70 percent of capacity because of
smoking cigarettes and crack cocaine. He said that if she
carried on, the condition would become fatal.  To contact the writer of this story:
Mark Beech in London at   mbeech@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net :
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  