-- 
Somali Militants Reject Aid as Thousands Seek Shelter in Nation’s Capital

-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 
2011-07-23T08:16:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/somali-militants-reject-aid-as-thousands-seek-shelter-in-capital.html
Somali militants linked to al-Qaeda
said aid agencies banned from the country won’t be allowed back
in as humanitarian groups said 1,000 people are arriving in the
capital, Mogadishu, daily in search of assistance.  “We won’t allow  United Nations  agencies who have already
been banned in our areas” to return to Somalia, Sheikh Ali
Mohamud Rage, a spokesman for the al-Shabaab group, told
reporters yesterday in Mogadishu.  Al-Shabaab controls most of southern and central Somalia
following a four-year insurgency against the Horn of Africa
country’s Western-backed government. The United Nations on July
20 declared a famine in the Bakool and Lower Shabelle regions of
southern Somalia amid the worst food-security crisis in the
country since 1992, when 300,000 people died.  The declaration of the famine is a “baseless claim” and is
part of a UN political agenda, Rage said.  In 2009, al-Shabaab banned three UN agencies from the
country, including the UN Development Program and its political
office, accusing them of being “enemies of Islam.” Last year,
the  World Food Programme  was barred from operating in the
country.  At least 1,000 people are arriving in Mogadishu daily after
fleeing Bakool and Lower Shabelle, the UN Refugee Agency said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday. More than 100,000 have fled to
neighboring  Kenya  and a further 78,000 have sought refuge in
 Ethiopia , it said.  Medecins Sans Frontieres, the Geneva-based medical relief
agency, said it was “essential” that restrictions on
humanitarian aid be removed.  “Fighting in Somalia, restrictions on supply flights,
international support staff as well as administrative hurdles
have all contributed to the current hardship faced by the Somali
population today,” Unni Karunakara, president of MSF, said in
the statement.  Somalia has been mired in a civil war for two decades and
hasn’t had a functioning central government since the 1991
ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 