-- 
Syria’s War College in City of Homs Is Struck by Blast, Al-Jazeera Reports

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-07-23T10:13:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/syrian-homs-war-college-struck-by-explosion-al-jazeera-reports.html
Syria ’s Army War College in the city
of Homs was struck by explosions in what may indicate divisions
within the country’s military,  Al Jazeera  reported, citing an
eyewitness.  Thirty soldiers and security personal were injured by
“terrorist groups” in Homs, the official Syrian Arab News
Agency said. The government denied reports that the military was
divided. A train carrying 480 passengers to Damascus from Aleppo
was derailed near Homs by a “terrorist group,” killing the
conductor and injuring passengers, SANA also reported today.  Homs, Syria’s third-largest city, has been a center of
uprisings against the government of Bashar al-Assad since
protests started earlier this year in the south of the country.
Government forces killed at least eight people at anti-
government rallies yesterday as more than 1 million
demonstrators nationwide defied stepped-up security measures,
human-rights activists said.  Those killed were in Damascus, Aleppo, Homs and Idlib,
while one protester died from wounds sustained earlier in the
week,  Ammar Qurabi , of the National Organization for Human
Rights in Syria, and Mahmoud Merhi, of the Arab Organization for
Human Rights, said in phone interviews yesterday.  The uprisings have undermined the four-decade rule of the
Assad family after protests earlier this year that led to the
downfall of rulers in Tunisia and Egypt spread to  Libya ,
Bahrain, Yemen and Syria.  Rising Death Toll  Syrian security forces have killed more than 1,900 people
since the uprising began and jailed thousands, Qurabi and Merhi
said. Their groups have compiled the names of those killed,
injured or detained. Thousands of Syrians have also fled to
Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan.  Syrian President al-Assad, in a televised address last
month, has called for talks with opposition groups to resolve
the crises while blaming unrest on a foreign conspiracy  The government has stepped up arrests even as it engages in
a so-called national dialogue with opponents,  Human Rights Watch 
said in a report this week. “President Assad talks reform but
continues to practice repression, not only through the
widespread killings of demonstrators but also through mass
arrests,” said Sarah Leah Whitson, Middle East director at
Human Rights Watch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net . 