-- 
U.S. Won’t Back Nuclear Talks Until North Korea Changes Ways, Clinton Says

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-07-23T02:32:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/u-s-won-t-back-nuclear-talks-until-north-korea-changes-ways-clinton-says.html
The U.S. won’t back multinational
talks on  North Korea ’s atomic weapons unless North Korea stops
provocative actions, starts dismantling its nuclear program and
halts arms trading, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said,  North Korea and  South Korea  yesterday agreed to try to
revive six-party talks on the North’s nuclear-weapons program,
with the first formal discussions in months signaling an easing
of tension between the two rivals. The U.S., China,  Russia  and
 Japan  are also participants in the group.  “We remain firm that in order for six-party talks to
resume, North Korea must take steps to improve North-South
relations,” Clinton said today at a meeting of the  Asia 
Regional Forum on the Indonesian island of Bali. “North Korea
continues to present a critical proliferation challenge to the
international community and to threaten regional stability with
its provocative actions,” Clinton said.  The top U.S. diplomat also outlined concerns about recent
tensions over the South  China  Sea, stressing U.S. opposition to
the use of force by any nation to advance claims to the
potentially oil- and gas-rich archipelago.  Clinton said that North Korea’s uranium enrichment
activities violate its commitments under a 2005 Joint Statement
by the parties involved in talks -- South Korea, the U.S.,
Russia, China, Japan and North Korea -- as well as UN Security
Council Resolutions.  Arms Transfers  North Korea continues to transfer arms to clients overseas
and pursue other proliferation activities, in violation of
Security Council resolutions, Clinton said, according to
prepared remarks that were handed out to reporters. Clinton also
criticized North Korea for two attacks on South Korea that
killed 50 people, spurring the U.S. to come to the defense of
its treaty ally and pressure China to rein in Kim Jong-Il’s
regime.  “The  United States  stands by our ally South Korea, and our
commitment to its security is non-negotiable,” Clinton said.
She urged members of the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
to help maintain peace and stability in northeast Asia by
implementing UN resolutions barring North Korea from pursuing
its nuclear program or dealing in weapons fully and
transparently.  The six-party forum last convened in December 2008. The
Asean Regional Forum this week is one of the only annual events
attended by diplomats from all the countries involved.  North Korea and South Korea remain technically at war after
their 1950-1953 conflict -- in which the U.S. and China fought
on opposite sides -- ended in a cease-fire.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Bali at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bali at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  