-- 
Vietnam’s Inflation Accelerates to 22%, Highest Among Economies in Asia

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-23T03:47:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-23/vietnam-s-inflation-accelerates-to-22-highest-level-among-asia-economies.html
Vietnamese inflation accelerated for
an 11th month in July after the central bank cut a key  interest
rate  even as the nation faces the fastest price gains in  Asia .  Consumer prices rose 22.16 percent from a year earlier,
compared with June’s 20.82 percent pace, data released by the
General Statistics Office in Hanoi showed today. Prices climbed
1.17 percent from June.  The central bank reduced its repurchase rate to 14 percent
from 15 percent on July 4 after a spate of increases since
November to fight inflation, leading the  International Monetary
Fund  to say the cut may confuse investors. The benchmark VN
Index of stocks is down 16 percent this year, on concern price
gains will hurt the economy.  “The markets were very surprised by the easing,”  Prakriti Sofat , a Singapore-based economist at  Barclays Capital , said
before the release. “It’s too early to go into a full-blown
easing cycle given that inflation and inflation expectations
remain elevated.”  Vietnam  will find it “very difficult” to slow inflation
to 17 percent by the end of 2011, Ha Van Hien, head of the
National Assembly’s Economic Committee, told the opening of the
body in Hanoi on July 21. It may peak as high as 23 percent in
August before slowing to 18 percent by year-end, Sofat said.  The VN Index fell 0.9 percent yesterday to 409.2, while the
dong weakened 0.1 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency was devalued by about 7 percent in
February, the most since at least 1993, risking costlier imports.  Food, Transport Costs  Food, transport and construction-material prices have
stoked consumer-price growth, according to Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. Transport prices rose 21.7 percent
from a year earlier in July, today’s data showed. July’s annual
inflation rate is the highest in a basket of 17 Asian economies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung in February cut the credit-
growth target and ordered a tighter monetary policy to try to
tame inflation, revive confidence in the economy and prevent
another credit-rating downgrade. This month’s rate cut wasn’t a
“policy signal,” the central bank said in  a July 8 statement .  “We assume policymakers are again demonstrating their low
tolerance for slower growth,” Christian de Guzman, a Singapore-
based assistant vice president at Moody’s Investors Service,
said in a note on July 11.  The nation’s economy expanded 5.6 percent from a year
earlier in the first half of 2011. Moody’s said that a “tight”
monetary policy would threaten the government’s full-year target
of 6 percent.  ‘A Bit Concerned’  “We are a bit concerned that the cut in rates will confuse
the market about the government’s commitment to sustaining the
stabilization effort under Resolution 11,” Benedict Bingham,
the IMF’s senior resident representative in Vietnam, said this
month. Resolution 11 refers to the steps Dung took in February.  “A strong commitment to sustaining this effort is
essential to re-establishing confidence in the dong and
restoring macro-economic stability more generally,” Bingham
said.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam had increased the repurchase rate
for the seven-day term from 7 percent at the start of November
2010 before this month’s cut. It appears to have become the
benchmark for monetary policy, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City .  Editors: Sunil Jagtiani,
 Jim McDonald   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  