-- ‘Buffett Rule’ Boomerangs as Republican Tax Legislation
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-09-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/-buffett-rule-boomerangs-as-republican-tax-legislation.html
Congress just can’t stop dropping
the name of  Warren Buffett .  When the billionaire said he shouldn’t pay a lower tax rate
than his secretary, President  Barack Obama  and congressional
Democrats seized on that reasoning and proposed a minimum
federal tax rate for the nation’s top earners. The catchy title
they came up with was “the Buffett rule,” named after the
chairman and chief executive officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   Republicans in the U.S. House yesterday called up a
different tax proposal with a not-so-coincidentally similar
title: “The Buffett Rule Act of 2012.”  The bill, which the House passed by voice vote, would make
it easier to give money to the U.S. government by adding a place
on tax returns for voluntary contributions toward paying down
the national debt.  “There’s nothing wrong with this bill except the label,”
Representative  Sander Levin  of  Michigan , the top Democrat on the
House Ways and Means Committee, said during floor debate. “This
bill has nothing -- zero -- to do with the Buffett rule.”  Democrats couldn’t control the hijacking of their catch
phrase, so they settled for reminding constituents that not all
“Buffett rules” are equal.  Members of the public already can make contributions to
reduce the national debt online by  credit card , checking or
 savings accounts . They also can mail a check to the Bureau of
the Public Debt. The Republican bill would add federal income
tax forms as another means for accepting donations.  Tax Forms  The measure says federal income tax forms would include a
box alongside the following text: “By checking here, I signify
that in addition to my tax liability (if any), I would like to
donate the included payment to be used exclusively for the
purpose of paying down the national debt.”  The bill would see that each donation is deposited in
the general fund of the  U.S. Treasury  and transferred to a
special account for gifts to reduce the debt. It would take
effect starting with returns for the 2012 tax year and each
donation would be tax-deductible.  “If Warren Buffett wants to give, then H.R. 6410 allows
him to give to his heart’s content,” Ways and Means Committee
Chairman  Dave Camp  said yesterday during floor debate, referring
to the bill number. The Michigan Republican said the bill
“makes it easy for those who want to donate money to the
Treasury for debt reduction to voluntarily do so, without
raising taxes on entrepreneurs and job creators.”  Bill’s Author  For Representative  Steve Scalise , the Louisiana Republican
who authored the legislation, the bill serves two purposes. It
would make voluntary debt-reduction contributions as easy as the
$1 donation to presidential campaign funds, and it lets the
House respond to Obama, who brought Buffett’s secretary,  Debbie Bosanek , to his 2012  State of the Union  address.  The president “has used Warren Buffett as the poster-child
for his class warfare scheme because Buffett complains that he
doesn’t pay enough in taxes,” Scalise said in an e-mail before
the House vote.  Buffett made his remarks about what he considers unfair tax
rates in August 2011 and Obama proposed the concept of the
“Buffett rule” the following month. Scalise introduced a
previous version of his bill, with Buffett’s name as part of the
title, last October.  Senate Measure  In the Senate, Rhode Island Democrat  Sheldon Whitehouse  is
the lead sponsor of legislation that would set a minimum 30
percent federal tax rate for households with adjusted gross
incomes of at least $2 million a year.  A procedural vote on April 16 to proceed to consideration
of the bill got 51 supporters in the Democratic-controlled
chamber, short of the 60 needed.  Implementation of the Scalise bill would increase revenue
by $135 million from 2013 through 2022, according to an estimate
by the nonpartisan congressional Joint Committee on Taxation. By
contrast, the Whitehouse measure would boost revenue by $47
billion during the next decade, according to the committee.  The bills are H.R. 3099, H.R. 6410 and S. 2230.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  