-- ‘Rats’ Hunter Unearths ‘Smellodrama’ Revisiting 1776 War
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2012-09-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/-rats-hunter-unearths-smellodrama-revisiting-1776-war-books.html
Robert Sullivan  gazes from the
Empire State Building and sees history in geography, “the
ocean-bound strait called the Narrows,” where “the British
sailed in with 40,000 troops, a forest of masts deckling the
edge of  Staten Island ” in 1776.  In “ My American Revolution: Crossing the Delaware and I-
78 ,” Sullivan’s eccentric, entertaining take on the war, he
avoids the more-celebrated names like Lexington and Concord,
focusing on select events in and around  New York , where “the
majority of battles were lost and, less often, won.”  Living in Brooklyn, he’s mindful that he walks and works in
“the very precincts that  Washington  and his mapmakers surveyed
and marked, fortified and ditched and armed with cannons and
pikes.”  Sullivan showed a keen eye for both landscape and research
with “ The Meadowlands ” (1998), his exploration of the strange,
storied  New Jersey  swamp. In what’s probably his best-known
book, 2004’s “ Rats ,” he spent many nights in a slimy alley
studying  Manhattan ’s rodents.  It’s also where he quoted Thoreau: “‘my head is an organ
for burrowing,”’ apt for the context and for Sullivan’s brand
of hands-on journalism.  Brooklyn Battle  With “Revolution,” Sullivan proceeds not chronologically
but first along locations in his Kong’s-eye view of the land and
then according to the four seasons.  He highlights events he can retrace, including the famous
river crossing and Washington’s subsequent trek to New Jersey’s
Watchung Mountains, as well as the Battle of Brooklyn and the
general’s journey to New York for his inauguration. He’s a well-
informed guide you appreciate as much for his asides and
digressions.  In a sketch of the man who restarted the crossing of the
 Delaware  re-enactments in 1952, he notes his involvement in the
1940s in “a failed experiment with a ‘Smellodrama,’ an
invention that released odors as it projected films.” The
crossing’s crew for a while included Jack Kelly, brother of
Grace and “a celebrated Olympic rower.”  A discussion of the one-man “Turtle” submarine built by
David Bushnell to blow up British ships engenders a visit with
Duke Riley, self-styled “Artist and Patriot,” who in 2007
launched his homemade “Acorn” submarine to meet the “Queen
Mary 2” and attracted “a large fleet of law enforcement
officials.”  Butcher’s List  One of my favorite sideline characters is a New York
butcher named Thomas DeVoe, a 19th-century man who delves in his
idle moments through old records to chronicle the war’s food
markets with extraordinary detail, depicting the “Revolution as
a kind of economic crisis.” A great maker of lists, he did one
of “all the butchers who ever worked in the City of New York”
that ran to 500 handwritten pages.  Another amateur historian was James Kelly, who lived in the
early 20th century amid landmarks of the Battle of  Brooklyn  and
undertook a long, frustrating quest to find the burial place of
the Maryland soldiers who died covering Washington’s retreat.  As the Kelly episode winds down, Sullivan opens a section
with “My fingers all but trembled” as he begins looking
through Kelly’s papers in the  Brooklyn College  archives. You can
hear that excitement again -- “I was ecstatic” -- when he
discovers in Wall Street’s Federal Hall the stone on which
Washington stood to take the oath of office as first president.  Missing Maps  With Sullivan’s fact-rich narrative and unconventional
organization, I found the lack of an index unfortunate,
especially when my notes weren’t clear enough on which
Morristown winter I wanted to cite and whether I had got Jack
Kelly and James Kelly mixed up. Worse is the lack of a single
map in a book steeped in landmarks, routes and topography.  I will cork my whines after a last one on footnotes. Their
type is too small and their interruptions annoying, especially
when they jump a page. They could have resided comfortably in
the main text, with the possible exception of a fun one on
spirals that takes in the artist Robert Smithson, Brancusi’s
portrait of  James Joyce  and a quote from  Samuel Beckett ’s “The
Unnamable.”  “My American Revolution” is published by Farrar, Straus &
Giroux (259 pages, $26). To order this book in  North America ,
click  here .  (Jeffrey Burke is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Lance Esplund and Katya Kazakina on
 art .  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 