-- Accused Movie Shooter’s Prosecutors Drop Notebook Bid
-- B y   J e f f   K a s s
-- 2012-09-20T19:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/accused-movie-shooter-s-prosecutors-drop-notebook-bid.html
Prosecutors dropped a bid to view
the contents of a notebook  Colorado  theater shooting suspect
James Holmes sent to a psychiatrist just before the July 20
incident, in which 12 people were killed.  The defense has argued that the notebook is subject to
patient-doctor privilege and can’t be viewed by prosecutors. The
notebook is in the possession of the state court in Centennial,
Colorado, where Holmes faces 24 counts of first-degree murder
and more than 100 of attempted murder.  Prosecutors still maintain the notebook isn’t privileged,
Deputy Arapahoe County District Attorney Rich Orman told Judge
William Sylvester today. Still, Orman said, any decision on the
question would probably trigger an appeal that would delay the
case “for a long time.”  Orman said he believes prosecutors will eventually be able
to see the contents of the notebook anyway because Holmes’s
attorney has indicated that his client, who was in court today,
is mentally ill.  “There is a high likelihood that any privilege that exists
with this notebook will be waived in the future,” Orman said.  Holmes is accused of opening fire on the audience at a
midnight screening of “The Dark Knight Rises” in Aurora,
Colorado. Sylvester had been asked to decide whether a package
Holmes sent to Lynne Fenton, a  University of Colorado 
psychiatrist, was protected by doctor-patient confidentiality.
Fenton testified last month that she had met with Holmes less
than six weeks before the shooting.  ‘Insanity Defense’  “You don’t have to be  Sherlock Holmes  to see an insanity
defense is coming here,” said Craig Silverman, a Denver defense
attorney and former prosecutor who attended today’s hearing. An
insanity plea could open a way for prosecutors to view the
notebook, although that’s not guaranteed, he said.  Holmes, who studied neuroscience at the University of
Colorado Denver, is charged with 24 counts of first-degree
murder for the 12 people killed in the shooting. First-degree
murder can carry the death penalty in Colorado.  Sylvester today let prosecutors add 10 attempted murder
charges against Holmes to the 116 he already faces.  The case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th Judicial
District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kass in Colorado District Court in Centennial at
 kassj@msn.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  