-- Madoff Investors Get $2.5 Billion After Almost Four Years
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-09-20T15:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/madoff-victims-are-sent-checks-for-2-5-billion-by-trustee-1-.html
Bernard L. Madoff’s investors were
mailed checks totaling about $2.5 billion, almost four years
after the Ponzi scheme operator was arrested.  Traders said anticipation of the payment, which many
investors see as the last for a while, has spurred sales of
Madoff claims in recent weeks.  Irving H. Picard, who is liquidating the con man’s firm,
said checks for the second distribution from a customer fund
were mailed yesterday to people with approved claims. He has
previously paid investors $336 million from the fund, now
standing at $7.3 billion, according to his website. The
Securities Investor Protection Corp., which hired Picard and
pays his fees, compensated investors for $803 million in losses
after the Madoff brokerage collapsed.  “While this progress is extremely gratifying, we will not
cease our work” of returning money to its rightful owners,
Picard said in a statement. The three payments satisfy half of
the current Madoff accounts whose claims he has allowed, he
said. The average check mailed yesterday was for about $2
million, according to Picard.  Prices of larger claims have climbed steadily to 70 cents
on the dollar from 67 cents in July, said  Joseph Sarachek ,
managing director of claims trading at CRT Capital Group LLC,
which buys and sells distressed debt. One $80 million claim,
which he tried to buy, traded for 70 cents, he said.  Active Trading  Trading has been the most active ever, with 50 sales since
July 18, as claim holders anticipate a long wait before a third
payment from the Madoff customer fund, according to Sarachek.  Reflecting the latest payment, which will return 33 cents
on the dollar to claim holders, prices will fall as far as the
low to mid 30s, “based on uncertainty about the next
distribution,” he calculated. From that price, he said he sees
little risk that values will fall much as the liquidation grinds
on, recommending the claims for  hedge funds  and other buyers of
distressed debt.  “It will likely last three to five more years, providing
hedge fund investors with a safe haven for funds,” he said.  Court challenges until July had tied up most of the $9.1
billion that Picard has raised since Madoff’s 2008 arrest,
mostly through settlements. That was more than half the
estimated $17.3 billion lost in Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  Meanwhile, SIPC has spent $621 million to fund the
liquidation proceeding, it said in a statement today. Picard and
his  law firm  have charged SIPC more than $300 million in fees,
according to court filings.  Next Hurdle  The trustee’s next hurdle is an appeal of rulings in four
lawsuits against banks that barred him from demanding a total of
about $30 billion on behalf of the con man’s investors. The
banks, including  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , oppose his appeal. The court set a proposed
date of Nov. 19 to consider the case.  Madoff is serving a 150-year prison sentence after pleading
guilty to fraud.  The Madoff liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc., 08-01789,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New
York  ( Manhattan ). The criminal case is U.S. v. Madoff, 09-cr-
00213, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  