-- AEP Argues EPA Carbon Rules Relies on Technology Not Yet Viable
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-09-20T15:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/aep-argues-epa-carbon-rules-relies-on-technology-not-yet-viable.html
American Electric Power Co. (AEP) , the
electric utility that owns some of the largest sources of
carbon-dioxide emissions in the U.S., argued today that a
government proposal to cut those pollutants is impractical and
relies on technology that isn’t yet viable.  The Environmental Protection Agency issued proposed rules
this year that would preclude the construction of new coal-fired
 power plants  that don’t have expensive carbon-capture and
storage technology. Beginning in 2009, AEP tested that
technology at a plant in  West Virginia  before shutting down that
project last year.  “Based on AEP’s experience and EPA’s own admission, this
technology is neither commercially demonstrated nor economically
viable,” Mark McCullough, executive vice president of AEP, told
a panel of the House Energy and Commerce Committee today. As a
result, the rule “forces reliance on a very volatile commodity,
natural gas.”  Republican lawmakers are pushing legislation to prevent the
EPA from following through on that proposal, one of a series of
bills they have pushed to curb regulations from the EPA. AEP
said it supports that legislation.  Other companies agree.  Alstom SA (ALO) , which worked with AEP on
its carbon-capture project, said it has moved that technology to
larger pilot projects, but none are ready for commercial scale.  “When the EPA came forward with a requirement for a
technology in commercial practice that is not yet available
commercially as the only way to meet a regulation, it seemed a
departure from its history,” Robert Hilton, Alstom’s vice
president for government affairs, said today.  Environmental groups and Democrats said the regulation is
necessary to combat the effects of global warming, that impetus
from this regulation is needed to prod along the development of
the carbon-capture technology, and that cheaper, cleaner natural
gas is preventing the construction of new coal plants.  “The marketplace is already providing cleaner and more
competitive alternatives,” Daniel Lashof, director of the
climate and clean air program at the  Natural Resources Defense
Council  in  New York , said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  