-- Thailand’s Biggest Bank Deal Seen as GE Exits: Real M&A
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y ,   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-09-21T10:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/thailand-s-biggest-bank-deal-seen-as-ge-exits-real-m-a.html
General Electric Co.’s potential
exit from  Thailand ’s banking industry is giving  Malayan Banking
Bhd. (MAY)  the chance to claim a foothold in  Southeast Asia ’s second-
largest economy.  GE may sell its 33 percent stake in  Bank of Ayudhya Pcl ,
people with knowledge of the matter said last week. Tisco
Securities Co. says the sale may create an opening for a foreign
takeover of the entire Bangkok-based company, which is the most
profitable lender among 11 publicly traded Thai banks based on
net interest margins. An acquisition of Bank of Ayudhya, which
has a market value of $7 billion, would be the country’s largest
bank deal, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  As a top issuer of credit cards and personal loans in
Thailand, Bank of Ayudhya may more than double profit by 2014 as
consumer borrowing outpaces demand for credit from businesses,
according to Citigroup Inc. Amid  rising car  and home purchases,
loan growth accelerated to 14 percent in the second quarter.
While the nation’s central bank needs to give permission for any
takeover, Maybank’s eagerness to expand in Southeast Asia makes
it likely to bid for the entire bank, said ECM Libra Capital
Sdn.  “Bank of Ayudhya is an attractive takeover target,” said
Peach Patharavanakul, a Bangkok-based analyst at Tisco
Securities. “Thailand’s economy now is a story of domestic
demand and consumption. Bank of Ayudhya is one of the best bets
on this story.”  Transformed Lender  Maybank said in an e-mail that it doesn’t comment on market
speculation. In an interview with CNBC, Chief Executive Officer
Abdul Wahid Omar said today he wants a Thai retail bank.  “It’ll be great if we can have a domestic retail and
commercial banking presence in Thailand,” he said in the
interview. He said Maybank is “keen” to expand in Thailand,
though didn’t say whether the bank would bid for  GE (GE) ’s stake.  Officials at Bank of Ayudhya referred all questions to  GE
Capital  in  Singapore , which said in an e-mail that “we
regularly evaluate our strategic options for our investments”  Bank of Ayudhya fell 2.1 percent to 35.5 baht in Bangkok,
the biggest decline in almost three weeks. Maybank rose 0.1
percent to 9.15 ringgit in Kuala Lumpur.  Formed in 1945  and listed on the local stock exchange in
1977, Bank of Ayudhya has counted GE as its top shareholder
since 2007, when the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company
acquired a 29 percent stake, data compiled by Bloomberg show. GE
boosted its stake to 33 percent later that year.  AIG, HSBC  That investment preceded at least eight takeovers by the
Thai bank, including purchases of businesses from GE,  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the data show.
Those deals turned Bank of Ayudhya into the nation’s top or
second-ranked provider of credit cards,  car loans  and personal
finance, bank  filings  show.  “GE has successfully transformed Bank of Ayudhya into one
of the country’s top lenders, especially in retail banking,”
Sasikorn Charoensuwan, head of research at Phillip Securities
(Thailand) Pcl, said in a phone interview. “For any overseas
lenders that want to expand in Thailand, Bank of Ayudhya will be
a very strong platform.”  Bank of Ayudhya has more than doubled in value from GE’s
initial 16 baht-a-share purchase price. GE is considering
options including selling the stake, two people with knowledge
of the matter said last week, asking not to be identified
because the information is private.  With  600 branches  in Thailand, Bank of Ayudhya does
business under the brand name Krungsri. Both Ayudhya and
Krungsri are names for Thailand’s ancient capital in Ayutthaya
Province, north of Bangkok.  Profit Surge  Bank of Ayudhya’s profit, which has  surged  115 percent
since 2008, will more than double again by 2014 to 20.7 billion
baht, according to an Aug. 6 report by Citigroup analyst
Kritapas Siripassorn. Its net interest margin, a measure of the
profitability of the lending business, was 4.2 percent last
quarter, the highest among 11 Thai banks, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “It’s one of the better banks in Thailand because it’s
more focused on consumer loans, providing better profit
margins,”  Alan Richardson , a Singapore-based  fund manager  who
helps oversee $82 billion for Samsung Asset Management Co., said
in a phone interview. “Buying Bank of Ayudhya will be a fast
way of getting into Thailand’s top five banks.”  According to Richardson, among the potential buyers is
Maybank,  Malaysia ’s largest lender. The Kuala Lumpur-based bank
is one of the possible bidders that GE may contact about its
stake, a person with knowledge of the matter said last week.  ‘Noticeable Gap’  Maybank has sought a Thai retail bank since at least August
2011, when CEO Abdul Wahid described the lack of such a business
in Thailand as a “noticeable gap” in its Southeast Asian
network.  The bank plans to generate 40 percent of operating profit
from outside Malaysia by 2015 and wants to be in all the
region’s major markets by that date, he said. Filling the hole
in Thailand will require an acquisition, Abdul Wahid said.  Maybank, which bought PT Bank Internasional Indonesia in
2008 and Singapore brokerage Kim Eng Holdings Ltd. last year,
earned 28 percent of pretax income from overseas operations in
the six months ended June 30, according to bank  filings . The
purchase of Kim Eng gave Maybank stock-broking and investment
banking operations in Thailand.  Cars, Homes  With home and car owners also among Maybank’s biggest
borrowers, the Malaysian bank is a good match for Bank of
Ayudhya and is unlikely to stop at just a 33 percent stake, said
Leong Hon Sze, an analyst at ECM Libra in  Kuala Lumpur .  “I don’t think it makes sense for them to just have an
associate stake,” he said. “They would want control.”  Maybank, with a market value of  $23.5 billion , would need
to sell shares to raise funds for a potential takeover, Leong
said. After a  60 percent  gain this year, Bank of Ayudhya has a
market value of 215.6 billion baht ($7 billion).  A takeover at that size would be the biggest bank deal in
Thailand, and surpass the combined value of all of Maybank’s
acquisitions in the past four years, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  At yesterday’s close of 36.25 baht, the shares were valued
at twice the bank’s  book value  at the end of June. Though that’s
above a median multiple of 1.6 times book value paid in
acquisitions of Thai banks, Bank of Ayudhya deserves a higher
valuation, of as much as two times book, said Tisco’s
Patharavanakul.  ‘Asset Quality’  “If you buy Bank of Ayudhya today, you don’t have to waste
time cleaning up asset quality compared to the previous deals,”
she said.  Thailand’s economy, Southeast Asia’s largest after
Indonesia, may expand as much as 6 percent this year, the
government said in August, after Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra offered tax incentives to spur car and home purchases
and raised minimum wages.  Total bank loans grew 14.2 percent from a year earlier in
the second quarter, accelerating from a 13.9 percent expansion
in the first quarter, Bank of Thailand senior director Nawaporn Maharagkaga said on Aug. 9.  “Slower markets at home are spurring Asia-Pacific banks to
look abroad to boost growth,” Deepali Seth-Chhabria, a Mumbai-
based analyst at  Standard & Poor’s , said in an e-mail. “The
Thai banking system could appeal as it is a relatively stable
system. We expect the recent high-growth period to continue.”  Thailand’s Approval  As many as four overseas banks, including lenders from
 South Korea ,  Taiwan  and Australia, are interested in investing
in Thailand, Bank of Thailand Deputy Governor Krirk Vanikkul
said on Sept. 18.  Any acquirer will need the approval of Thailand’s central
bank, which has so far granted permission based on the banks’
need for capital or to be better managed, said Wee Siang Ng, an
analyst at BNP Paribas Securities Singapore Pte.  Among foreign banks that control Thai lenders are  CIMB
Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , Malaysia’s second-largest lender, and
Singapore’s  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  Both acquired their Thai
units,  CIMB Thai Bank Pcl (CIMBT)  and  United Overseas Bank (Thai) Pcl.   The foreign interest in Thailand will continue, said
Adithep Vanabriksha, Bangkok-based chief investment officer at
 Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN) , which has worldwide assets of
about $293 billion.  “Domestic consumption will be a big story for Thai banking
over the next few years with the global economic slowdown,” he
said by phone. “Bank of Ayudhya will receive a lot of interest
from foreign banks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 