-- Air Force One Staff May Snub Boeing Relocation Plan Again
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-09-20T18:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/air-force-one-staff-may-snub-boeing-relocation-plan-again.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s second offer to move
Kansas employees who maintain Air Force One to  Texas  probably
won’t garner any more interest than the first, which drew none,
because the terms are the same, the Machinists union said.  Maintenance on the two Boeing 747 jumbo jets used by the
U.S. president is being sent to Texas as a part of Boeing’s Jan.
4 plan to shutter its 83-year-old operations in Wichita as
defense spending shrinks. The planemaker still might win more
volunteers by sweetening its offer, said Frank Molina, president
of the union’s District 70 in Wichita.  The proposal is unattractive because the  San Antonio 
workforce isn’t unionized and the Wichita workers don’t want to
uproot their families, Molina said in a telephone interview.
 Texas law  forbids requiring union membership as a condition of
employment.  “The employees were very disappointed with the offer,”
Molina said. “If the company really wanted them, they would
have made a better offer.”  Keeping the  Air Force  One maintenance staff is important
for Boeing because the work requires employees to have five
years of experience on that jet or comparable special-mission
planes as well as security clearances that can take as long as
two years to obtain, Molina said. The planemaker held group
meetings with its Wichita workers this week.  “They do not want to lose any of these Yankee White
clearance folks because of how long it takes and how expensive
it is,” he said, referring to the security designation.  ‘Least Successful’  The Air Force called Boeing’s attempt to build a qualified
staff in San Antonio, either through new hires or personnel
transfers, “one of the most important aspects of the move, yet
least successful to date,” according to a July 30 letter to
Boeing obtained by  Bloomberg News .  A spokesman for the Chicago-based planemaker, Forrest Gossett, declined to comment on personnel relocation. He said
the company is committed to meeting the requirements of the
presidential jets.  The two current 747s that serve as Air Force One began
flying in 1990 and have a projected service life of 30 years.
The four-engine jumbo jets have been modified for midair
refueling, giving them unlimited range, according to the White
House.  The Air Force didn’t respond to requests for comment. Daryl
Mayer, a spokesman, said in an earlier e-mail that Boeing was
asked for data about its San Antonio workers’ experience, and
the Air Force has “no reason to believe Boeing won’t meet all
the terms and conditions of their respective contracts during
this transition.”  Boeing said in January that as many as 400 jobs would be
added in San Antonio, some through transfers. The cheaper,
rented Texas facility opened in 1998, and employees there have
worked on military planes, including the Air Force’s Kansas-
built KC-135 tankers.  Relocating the Air Force One work from Wichita doesn’t make
sense, Molina said.  “We already have what is necessary to run that program,
and they don’t,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 Vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ; 