-- Take a Chance on Cage, Gerhard Richter’s Zippy Stripes
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-09-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/take-a-chance-on-cage-gerhard-richter-s-zippy-stripes.html
To perform John Cage’s “4’33",”
musicians come out, bow and then remain silent for the duration.
Premiered in 1952, it’s his most influential work.  At its core, the piece is little more than a Dadaist prank
in full dress.  Engaging with Marcel Duchamp and the “I Ching” during the
last 20 years of his life, Cage also applied chance operations
to eliminate personal choice and create artless art.  In celebration of his centennial, Cage is everywhere this
fall, from  Chicago , Houston and Philadelphia to Budapest.  In New York, the National Academy Museum has mounted “John
Cage: The Sight of Silence,” the largest U.S. gathering of his
visual art in two decades.  The exhibition includes 60 Asian-influenced watercolors,
prints and drawings -- some of which use the burn patterns of
fire and smoke -- as well as photographs and videos of the
artist performing and painting.  The most striking thing about this show, which feels in
turns congested and empty, is its odd installation -- its random
nature was determined by throwing the dice.  Some lonely works float near the ceiling like untethered
balloons. Others hug one another or the baseboard, as if they
were slipping off the walls. Neither Eastern nor Western,
they’re mostly wan, washy, earth-toned works on paper.  Flaccid and unremarkable, they impress not as art but as
accident -- as Cagean artifact.  “John Cage: The Sight of Silence” runs through Jan. 13 at
the National Academy Museum, 1083 Fifth Ave. Information: +1-
212-369-4880;  http://www.nationalacademy.org .  ‘Crossing Borders’  The Jewish Museum’s “Crossing Borders: Manuscripts From the
Bodleian Libraries” is a rich, jewel-box exhibition.  More than 60 works have come to  New York  from the
 University of Oxford ’s superb collection. Spanning the 3rd
through the 18th centuries and covering subjects secular and
religious, they include scrolls and books mainly in Hebrew,
Arabic and Latin, executed on paper, parchment and papyrus.  Together they convey the great cross-fertilization and
interdependence among Christians, Muslims and Jews.  The Spanish “Kennicott Bible” (1476), lavishly illuminated,
is the show’s hallmark. Viewers can access all of its pages
through touch screens.  The exhibition also includes a gorgeous 16th-century Quran,
medieval versions of Euclid, as well as Christian-themed works
such as a 15th-century “Book of Hours.”  Even without the latest digital technology, the analog
portion of this show would be a hit.  “Crossing Borders: Manuscripts from the Bodleian Libraries”
runs through Feb. 3 at the Jewish Museum, 1 E. 92nd St.
Information: +1-212-423-3200;  http://www.thejewishmuseum.org .  Gerhard Richter  Gerhard Richter  is a celebrated Jack-of-all-trades.  As a representational painter working in soft-focus Photo-
Realism -- the master of the blur -- he has portrayed everything
from rolls of toilet paper to German terrorists.  As an abstractionist -- the master of the smear -- he has
squeegeed his way to stardom.  At Marian Goodman, Richter exhibits a handsome minimalist
sculpture made of six glass panels and steel (2002-11). It
multiplies as it dissolves your reflection.  But the 19 abstract digital works on view show he’s moving
in a new direction. Richter has of late embraced the Cagean-
Duchampian love of the non-intentional and is playing
sophisticated digital games of chance.  It shows. Each of the “strips” -- the largest spanning 20
feet -- has hundreds of horizontal, razor-sharp candy stripes.  The pieces are cold, quick, decorative and frenetic, as
sharp as an exposed dental nerve. Get too close and the lines
appear to lurch toward you.  Yet the works are deadened by mechanical duration -- the
numb of sameness.  No problem.  With Richter’s prices moving ever higher, the financial
success of the “strips” will prove inversely proportional to
their aesthetic failure -- and then some.  “Gerhard Richter: Strip Paintings 2012” runs through Oct.
13 at Marian Goodman Gallery, 24 W. 57th St. Information: +1-212-
977-7160;  http://www.mariangoodman.com .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Patrick Cole on  philanthropy  and Katya
Kazakina on hot  art .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund in New York at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 