-- Alzheimer’s Leaves Patients, Caregivers Feeling Isolated
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-09-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/alzheimer-s-leaves-patients-caregivers-feeling-isolated.html
Patients with Alzheimer’s disease,
the most common form of dementia, and their caregivers say the
illness leaves them feeling isolated and apart from family,
friends and life’s typical connections, a report shows.  About a quarter of people with dementia hide or conceal
their diagnosis because of the stigma surrounding the disease
and 40 percent say they are excluded from everyday life,
according to the  World Alzheimer Report 2012  released today by
London-based Alzheimer’s Disease International.  About 36 million people worldwide are living with dementia
and the numbers will more than triple to 115 million by 2050,
according to the report. The global cost of the disease is
estimated at $604 billion. More education is needed about
dementia, especially as seemingly healthy people are diagnosed
earlier with the disease, said Beth Kallmyer, vice president of
constituent services at the  Alzheimer’s Association  in  Chicago .  “People are getting diagnosed earlier and they are getting
diagnosed early enough that people are shocked that they have
Alzheimer’s disease,” Kallmyer said in a Sept. 18 telephone
interview. “You want to feel support when you say you have a
disease.”  Dementia affects a person’s memory, thinking, behavior and
ability to perform everyday tasks. There is no cure. Drugs on
the market now address only the symptoms, not the underlying
cause, and none has been shown to slow progression of the
disease.  U.S. Cost  This year in the U.S., the expense of caring for those with
Alzheimer’s is estimated at  $200 billion , mostly in costs to the
government health insurance programs Medicare and Medicaid,
according to the Alzheimer’s Association. That figure is
expected to increase to $1.1 trillion by 2050.  This year the  National Institutes of Health  will provide
about $500 million in research funding for Alzheimer’s compared
with $5.45 billion for cancer, $4 billion for  heart disease  and
$3.1 billion for HIV/AIDS, according to the Alzheimer’s
Association.  Kallmyer said a diagnosis of cancer usually spurs follow-up
calls by friends and family about the person’s health and
requests to help. With Alzheimer’s, many people, including
family, don’t know how to react, maybe because of fear or
feelings of inadequacy, and the patient can become isolated, she
said.  “There are parts of the disease where people are very much
able to participate in daily life and they’ll tell you what they
might need in terms of help if you just ask,” she said.  Global Survey  In today’s report, Alzheimer’s Disease International
surveyed 2,500 people in 54 countries, including those with
dementia and their caregivers. Two of three people who responded
to the survey said there is little to no understanding of the
disease in their countries. About 75 percent of those with
dementia and 64 percent of caregivers said there were negative
associations for people with the illness.  “We chose this topic because we feel that stigma is the
main barrier to finding solutions for Alzheimer’s disease and
dementia,” said  Marc Wortmann,  executive director of
Alzheimer’s Disease International, in a Sept. 18 e-mail.
“Despite the growing numbers and huge costs, there is still
little response from governments in improving services and
putting money into research. As long as people ignore the
disease, that is not going to change and the ignorance is a
result of stigma.”  In addition to greater education, the report recommended
more programs to reduce the isolation of people with dementia,
additional help for caregivers and an increase in research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  