-- Americans’ View on Economic Outlook Improves to Four-Month High
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2012-09-20T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/americans-view-on-economic-outlook-improves-to-four-month-high.html
Americans’ view of the  economic
outlook  improved in September as stock prices rallied to a five-
year high.  The gap between positive and negative expectations narrowed
to minus 8 this month, the highest reading since May, as the
percentage saying the U.S. was heading in the wrong direction
dropped by the most in three years, according to results of the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index. The  weekly measure  rose to a
seven-week high of minus 40.8 in the period ended Sept. 16 from
minus 42.2.  The gain in share prices may be making households more
secure in their finances at a time when gasoline prices are
rising, wages are stagnant and unemployment hovers above 8
percent. The  Federal Reserve ’s commitment to keep buying assets
until the job market improves and similar measures by central
banks around the globe to stem a slowdown may also be giving
consumers reason to believe the worst is over.  The gain in confidence is “likely due to a modest wealth
effect among middle- and upper-income groups associated with the
rally in domestic equity markets and perceptions that  Europe 
financial tensions have eased,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior
economist at Bloomberg LP in New York.  Another report today showed more Americans than forecast
filed applications for  unemployment benefits , adding to concern
the labor market is slackening.  Jobless  claims  fell by 3,000 to 382,000 in the week ended
Sept. 15, Labor Department figures showed. The median forecast
of 49 economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected 375,000. The
four-week  moving average , a less volatile measure, climbed to
377,750, the highest since the end of June.  Stock Prices  Stocks fell as data from  China  to Europe increased concern
the global economic slowdown is worsening. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index, which closed last week at the highest level since
December 2007, fell 0.5 percent to 1,453.9 at 9:33 a.m. in  New
York .  The share of households viewing the economy as heading in
the  wrong direction  dropped to 34 percent in September, the
fewest since June, from 45 percent the prior month, according to
the Bloomberg monthly expectations gauge. The 11-point
improvement is the biggest since October 2009.  Women and Americans living in the Northeast were among the
groups that showed the biggest declines in pessimism this month,
the report showed.  Those saying the economy was on the right track climbed to
26 percent this month from 23 percent in August.  Comfort Components  All three of the weekly comfort index’s components
improved. The index of Americans’ views on the current  state of
the economy  rose to minus 71.3, the highest since mid-June, from
minus 72.4. The personal finance barometer rose to minus 5.3
from minus 6.2, and the measure of Americans’ view of the buying
climate climbed to minus 45.8 from minus 47.9.  “We saw last month  consumer confidence  ticked up, and I
believe that we’re going to see that continue to tick up as the
economy continues to stabilize,” David R. Jaffe, president and
chief executive officer at Ascena Retail Group Inc., said during
a Sept. 6 teleconference. Suffern, New York-based Ascena, whose
brands include dressbarn, is specialty retailer of women’s
apparel.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is in line with the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary consumer
 sentiment  for September, which unexpectedly rose to a four-month
high of 79.2, according to a report last week.  Retail Sales  Growing confidence may help boost  consumer spending  after
disappointing results last month. Sales at general merchandise,
clothing and electronics stores dropped in August, data from the
Commerce Department showed last week. Total retail sales
increased 0.9 percent, the most in six months, led by demand for
automobiles and a surge in receipts at service stations as
gasoline prices climbed.  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  of  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin , the third-
largest U.S. department-store company, plans to hire more than
52,700 workers to help with year-end holiday sales, an increase
of more than 10 percent from last year, according to a company
statement this week.  Today’s comfort report showed confidence improved more
among Democrats than Republicans last week. Democrats’ sentiment
gauge rose to minus 27.9, the best since late July and higher
than any other group except those with household incomes of
$100,000 or more. Democrats have reported higher optimism than
Republicans for a record 26 weeks.  Among Republicans, the index rose to minus 46.3 from minus
47.9 the prior week. The gauge for Democrats exceeded that for
Republicans by 18.4 points, tying the record reached in mid-
July.  Presidential Election  “Partisanship continues to color economic sentiment as the
presidential election nears,” said  Gary Langer , president of
New York-based Langer Research Associations, which compiles the
index for Bloomberg.  Confidence among political independents, a key swing vote
in the November presidential election, was little changed at
minus 45.8 last week from minus 45.3.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, compiled by Langer
Research Associates in New York, conducts telephone surveys with
a random sample of 1,000 consumers 18 and older. Each week, 250
respondents are asked for their views on the economy, personal
finances and buying climate; the percentage of negative
responses is subtracted from the share of positive views and
divided by three. The most recent reading is based on the
average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in Washington at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  