-- Manchester Utd. May Squeeze Nike After Record GM Jersey Deal
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-09-20T11:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/manchester-united-may-squeeze-nike-after-record-gm-jersey-deal.html
Manchester United  convinced  General
Motors Co. (GM)  to pay a record $559 million to have its Chevrolet
brand on the team’s red jersey. Now, the 19-time English soccer
champion is ready to play hard ball with  Nike Inc. (NKE) , its maker.  United, which this week announced its first results since
August’s initial public offering, got 33.8 million pounds ($54.7
million) in retail sales for the year ended June 30. That’s
mainly from its 13-year, 303 million-pound contract with Nike,
which gives the Oregon-based company control over the club’s
complete merchandise sales operations, including the jersey.  “We continue to believe that there will be an opportunity
to reset our existing deal with Nike to market rates,” United’s
executive vice chairman Ed Woodward said on a conference call
with analysts after the team announced a fourth-quarter loss of
14.9 million pounds. “There have been many changes to the world
of football since this deal was negotiated in 2001.”  Woodward’s optimism may have been fueled by the seven-year
GM deal, which the club says is the largest such agreement in
sports. The carmaker will pay more than double current jersey
sponsor Aon Corp.’s 20 million pounds a season when it takes
over in 2014. Even before then it’s paying almost $18 million
for each of the next two seasons as part of the agreement.  Glazer Family  United is owned by the Florida-based Glazer family, who
also control the NFL’s Tampa Bay Buccaneers. In its earnings
statement, the club announced full-year revenue down 3 percent
at 320.3 million pounds, the first decline in sales since the
Americans bought the club in 2005. The team last night beat
Galatasaray 1-0 in its first Champions League match of the
season. Its failure to make it out of the group stage last year
cost millions of dollars in lost television and matchday
revenue.  When United enters its exclusive negotiating period over a
renewal with Nike in February, Woodward may point to new
entrants in the soccer apparel market from the U.S.  Under Armour Inc. (UA)  signed with Tottenham Hotspur, while
Warrior, a unit of New Balance Athletic Shoe Inc., is paying
five-time European champion Liverpool 25 million pounds for each
of the next six seasons even though the Reds had their worst
English Premier League finish since 1994 in May and are yet to
win after four matches this campaign.  Liverpool had been getting about 12 million pounds a year
from  Adidas AG (ADS) , soccer’s leading brand by sales.  ‘Greater Market’  Europe’s leading teams are no longer restricted to a choice
between Nike or Adidas, according to Andy Anson, chief executive
officer at online sporting goods retailer Kitbag Ltd.  “The main impact of the new entrants, such as Warrior and
Under Armour, has been to create a greater market for the
clubs,” Anson, United’s former commercial director, said in an
interview. “As we’ve seen with the Liverpool shirt deal, where
Warrior outbid Adidas, the clubs now have more options and can
drive up the sports marketing fee they are getting from the
brands.”  In June, Nike announced its soccer business generated sales
of $2 billion for the first time. The world’s biggest sporting
goods maker entered the sport in the mid-1990s when it signed
contracts with  Germany ’s Borussia Dortmund, London club Arsenal,
Paris Saint-Germain and  Brazil ’s national team.  Sales of United’s home and away jerseys are among Nike’s
best sellers alongside those of Spanish club Barcelona. Replica
shirts with United striker  Wayne Rooney ’s name on the back have
sold more than any other in the Premier League’s 20-year
history, the  league said  April 30. United doesn’t break out
total jersey sales.  ‘Create Demand’  Nike’s deal with United is made up of a minimum guarantee,
with any additional revenue generated from retail sales split
50-50. How much more the company would be prepared to pay
depends on the business case, according to Nike brand President
 Charlie Denson .  “It’s their job to create demand for their product and
that’s what they’re doing,” Denson said in an interview last
month. “At the end of the day, the merits of the quality of the
opportunity and what it’s worth will play itself out.”  Denson said changes in the way companies interact with
consumers today meant he didn’t think United, or any other
property, is a “must have.”  “There’s so many different properties, so many different
ways to communicate with the consumer that there’s no ‘have to
haves’ in the world today,” he said. “I think there’s a lot of
‘like to haves’ and we certainly have our share of things that
we like to have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  