-- Manchester Utd. Is Told Ogbonna Will Cost $26 Million: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-20T06:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/manchester-utd-is-told-ogbonna-will-cost-26-million-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  $26 Million Defender  Manchester United  has been told it will have to pay 16
million pounds ($26 million) to sign Torino center-back Angelo Ogbonna, the  Daily Mail reported .  United manager  Alex Ferguson  has been tracking Ogbonna, who
was part of  Italy ’s Euro 2012 squad, since the start of last
season and the club’s scouts have made regular checks on the 24-
year-old, the newspaper added.  Penalty Misses  Ferguson will delegate penalty-taking duties from now on
after Nani missed United’s third straight spot kick in last
night’s 1-0 win against Galatasaray, the  Daily Mirror reported .  “To be honest with you, I have no idea why Nani took it,”
the Mirror cited Ferguson as saying. “Nani just ran and grabbed
the ball. I think we will have to decide before the game, which
is my fault, I should have done that.”  Carragher’s Career  Liverpool defender  Jamie Carragher  has been told he has a
future at Anfield beyond this season even though he’s yet to
start a Premier League match since  Brendan Rodgers  took over as
manager, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Rodgers said he hopes Carragher, who has a year remaining
on his contract, will extend his Liverpool career as either a
player or a coach, the newspaper added.  “I think he can play on,” the Telegraph cited Rodgers as
saying. “He’s one of the guys who is the soul of the club and
there has to be a place for someone like him.”  Nasri Injury  Manchester City  may be without Samir Nasri for three weeks
after the French midfielder suffered a suspected hamstring tear
in the 3-2 Champions League defeat at Real Madrid two days ago,
the  Mail reported .  City Striker  Queens Park Rangers wants to take Manchester City striker
John Guidetti on loan in January to replace the injured  Andy Johnson , the  Sun reported .  Guidetti, a 20-year-old Swede, spent last season on loan at
Dutch club Feyenoord and scored 20 goals in 23 games, the
newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  