-- Mando Said to Plan 250 Billion Won IPO of Its China Unit
-- B y   R o s e   K i m   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 2012-09-20T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/mando-said-to-plan-250-billion-won-ipo-of-its-china-unit.html
Mando Corp. (060980) , the largest unit of
South Korea’s Halla Group, plans to raise about 250 billion won
($223 million) from an initial public offering in Hong Kong of
its Chinese unit, two people familiar with the matter said.  The company plans to sell new stock equivalent to a 25
percent stake during late November and price the shares to value
Mando  China  Holdings Ltd. at about 1 trillion won, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the plans haven’t
been made public.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Deutsche Bank AG are
handling the deal, they said.  The proceeds may help Mando, Korea’s second-largest auto-
parts maker, raise funds for a possible purchase of former
affiliate  Halla Climate Control Corp. (018880)  from  Visteon Corp. (VC)  Mando
said in August it may offer to buy Visteon’s 70 percent stake in
Halla Climate.  Spokesmen at Mando said they couldn’t immediately comment.  The Korean company established Mando China Holdings last
month by reorganizing eight affiliates in China, according to a
regulatory filing on Sept. 3.  UBS AG (UBSN)  analysts wrote earlier this month that the China
affiliates will account for 18 percent of Mando’s total revenue
and 32 percent of its operating profit in 2012. Mando China’s
listing could help strengthen the parent company’s balance sheet
and lower financial expenses, they wrote in a Sept. 3 report.  Rebuilding Group  Halla Group Chairman Chung Mong Won, who’s also chairman of
Mando, has been seeking to rebuild the group, which went
bankrupt in 1997 after years of overexpansion saddled it with at
least 6.5 trillion won in debt. Chung regained control of Mando
in 2008 after Halla Group sold the company in 1999 following the
Asian financial crisis.  Visteon, the U.S. auto-parts maker that was spun off from
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  in 2000, in July failed in an attempt to buy the
remaining 30 percent of Halla Climate after South Korea’s
National Pension Service, which owns 8.1 percent of Halla
Climate, rejected the U.S. company’s offer. The pension fund
also reached a preliminary agreement to give Mando preferential
rights to bid for the fund’s stake in Halla Climate.  Visteon said this week that it plans to sell its climate
business to Halla Climate for cash, creating the Halla-Visteon
Climate Group.  The move, which Visteon wants to complete in the first
quarter of next year, will make the combined entity “predator
not prey” in the industry, Tim Leuliette, Visteon’s interim
chief executive officer, said at an investor conference in
 Boston . Customers have wanted such consolidation for more than a
decade and the transaction won’t be subject to a shareholder
vote, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  