-- Apple Internet Radio Entry Could Put Pandora in Play
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-09-20T20:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/apple-seen-putting-pandora-in-play-amid-online-shift-real-m-a.html
Apple (AAPL)  Inc.’s potential entry into
Internet radio is poised to put online music pioneer  Pandora
Media Inc. (P)  on the takeover wish lists of companies from Google
Inc. and  Amazon (AMZN) .com Inc. to Clear Channel Communications Inc.  Pandora is projected to increase revenue by 214 percent in
the next two years, almost triple the median for U.S. Internet
media companies valued at more than $1 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. With the shares down 34 percent
since their initial public offering, a buyer could acquire a
company trading for 21 percent less than the industry’s average
price-to-sales ratio using next year’s forecasts, the data show.  Pandora sank 17 percent on Sept. 7 amid speculation iPhone
maker Apple will introduce a rival service. Should Apple do so,
that may compel  Google (GOOG)  or Amazon to snap up Pandora’s 150
million registered users to offer the service on mobile devices,
Albert Fried & Co. and Needham & Co. said. Radio-station owner
Clear Channel may be interested as listeners and advertisers
shift to online media, according to Wedge Partners Corp. Needham
says Pandora could fetch $14 a share in a takeover, a 32 percent
premium, while Albert Fried sees the potential for a deal at
about $20.  “When you look at the value of Pandora to another company,
it’s the infrastructure they have created, it’s the advertising
business, the success with mobile,” John Rudolph, a senior
adviser at  Santa Monica , California-based Internet and digital-
media investment bank Siemer & Associates LLC, said in a
telephone interview. “Pandora has such a big installed base and
such a huge number of users, there’s value in that.”  Rival Service  Mollie Starr, a spokeswoman for Oakland, California-based
Pandora, declined to comment on the potential for a takeover. So
did Mary Osako of Seattle-based Amazon, Gina Weakley Johnson of
 Mountain View , California-based Google, and Wendy Goldberg of
New York-based Clear Channel.  Today, Pandora shares ended unchanged at $10.58, after
earlier rising as much as 4 percent.  Apple is considering the introduction of an online service
that streams music based on users’ tastes, a product that would
compete with Pandora, two people with knowledge of the plans
said two weeks ago.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment.  Pandora shares dropped to $10.47 on Sept. 7 from $12.57 the
day before, the biggest loss since March, amid concern its
growth would be hurt by Apple’s entry. Apple’s iTunes service
had 64 percent of the U.S. digital music market and 29 percent
of all retail  music sales  in the second quarter, according to
data compiled by research firm NPD Group Inc.  Winning Customers  Online and mobile radio are winning market share from
traditional broadcasters. Pandora represents 74 percent of
online-radio listening, and its share of all U.S. radio use has
climbed to 6.3 percent from 3 percent a year ago, Dominic Paschel, the company’s vice president of corporate finance and
investor relations, said Sept. 12 at an investor conference.  “That essentially makes us the largest station in most of
the top 10” markets, he said. “We anticipate being the No. 1
radio station in pretty much all of the top 180 markets by the
end of the year.”  Pandora, which offers both paid and advertising-supported
services, also generates more revenue from mobile-device ads in
the U.S. than every company except Google,  according to  data
compiled by EMarketer Inc.  An acquirer would get a company  projected  to increase
revenue to $861 million in the fiscal year ending in January
2015, up 214 percent from $274.3 million in fiscal 2012,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
median forecast rate for similar-sized U.S. Internet media
companies is 73 percent.  Stock’s Valuation  The company is relatively inexpensive compared with its
 prospects . As of yesterday, Pandora’s enterprise value was 2.78
times projected sales in the next fiscal year, 21 percent less
than the industry average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Apple’s entry into online radio could spur rivals such as
Google and Amazon to step up their competing efforts by
acquiring Pandora, according to Albert Fried’s Richard Tullo and
Needham’s  Laura Martin . Google is the developer of the Android
software that runs smartphones produced by companies such as
Samsung Electronics Co. Amazon makes Kindle e-readers and tablet
computers. Apple could win as many as 20 million users for its
radio service within a year, Tullo said.  “Because Apple is doing something, that makes everybody
else want to counter their move,” Tullo, an analyst based in
 New York , said in a phone interview.  Deal Values  Tullo sees a buyer possibly  paying  about $20 a share for
Pandora, which closed yesterday at $10.58. Martin, an analyst at
Needham, sees a deal at $14.  Tom Taulli , who analyzes
acquisitions for Los Angeles-based IPOPlaybook.com, said Pandora
could fetch $14 to $16. That would value the $1.79 billion
company, which went public in June 2011, at at least $2.4
billion.  Google may wish to counter Apple’s efforts out of concern a
new service would make iOS devices more attractive than tablets
and smartphones based on Android, which Google develops to make
money from mobile ads. To bolster its competitive stance, Google
bought device maker Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. for more
than $12 billion this year. The company spent $750 million
buying mobile-ad network AdMob Inc. in 2010.  Google could use Pandora to expand its offerings for
computers, smartphones and tablets, Taulli said.  Kindle Fire  “They are trying to offer all the content and services to
eke out more revenue per user,” he said. “The people at
Pandora know how to make compelling services that people like
and love. That kind of expertise is extremely valuable.”  Amazon updated its Kindle Fire tablets this quarter, and
owning Pandora might help the retailer make the device more
attractive to consumers, Taulli said. The company is also
developing a smartphone, two people with knowledge of the matter
said in July.  “You get critical mass overnight,” Martin said.  The online and mobile radio segment is growing faster than
the rest of the radio industry, with revenue projected to more
than double to $1.63 billion in 2015 from $622 million in 2011,
 according to  the Pew Research Center’s Project for Excellence in
Journalism. The report cited data from buyout firm Veronis
Suhler Stevenson LLC. Conventional AM/FM radio’s sales will rise
12 percent over the same period, while satellite will gain 34
percent, according to Pew.  Clear Channel  Traditional radio also faces an expanding threat from
mobile phones: More Americans are using the devices to play
Internet radio in their cars. The proportion rose to 11 percent
last year from 6 percent in 2010, according to the Pew report.
Pandora’s service also comes installed in 65 car models made by
companies such as Toyota Motor Corp., Honda Motor Co., Ford
Motor Co. and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, up from three a year
ago, Pandora said Sept. 12.  Broadcasters like Clear Channel may consider Pandora as a
way to reignite growth, according to  Martin Pyykkonen , a
 Greenwood Village , Colorado-based analyst at Wedge.  A company like Clear Channel might “look at Pandora and
say, ‘This is to replace the revenue that I lost,’” he said in
a phone interview. Clear Channel’s competing service,
iHeartRadio, has 17 million registered users.  Because Pandora offers advertisers detailed metrics showing
who was exposed to their pitches, Pandora has an advantage over
terrestrial radio companies, Pyykkonen said.  Companies like Google and Amazon may have the resources to
build their radio services without acquiring Pandora, according
to  John Tinker , a New York-based analyst at Maxim Group LLC.  Build, Buy  “Amazon, in the past, has chosen to build versus buy,” he
said in an interview. Amazon created its own online video
service that competes with  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s.  Apple may not choose to compete directly with Pandora, said
 Charlie Wolf , a New York-based analyst at Needham.  “It’s really of second order of importance to Apple,”
Wolf said in an interview. “I’m sure it would be a break-even
operation, a service to owners of iPhones and tablets. It would
certainly not be of a strategic priority for Apple. It’s way
down the list.”  Pandora isn’t  profitable , a potential deterrent to a buyer.
The company’s net loss amounted to $16.1 million last year, and
the loss is projected to widen to $31.1 million in fiscal 2013,
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  To Jon Irwin, the president of online-music service
Rhapsody International Inc., Pandora has an attractive radio
offering that could lure takeover interest, though he said his
company isn’t interested.  “There will be consolidation in this space,” he said in
an interview. “It doesn’t make sense to have all these music-
delivery platforms that essentially do the same thing. To be
successful, these services need to get to scale. Pressure for
scale will drive consolidation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  