-- S&P 500 Falls on Growth Concern as Treasuries Erase Gain
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2012-09-20T20:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/asian-stocks-fall-as-japan-exports-decline-kiwi-soybeans-climb.html
Most U.S. stocks fell and an index
of emerging-market shares slid the most in almost two months as
reports spurred concern the global economy is slowing. The euro
weakened and Spanish bonds dropped, while commodities erased
early losses and Treasuries reversed gains.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell less than 0.1 percent
to 1,460.27 at 4 p.m. in New York, trimming an earlier slide of
0.8 percent as consumer-staple and energy shares advanced. The
MSCI Emerging Markets Index slid 0.9 percent, the most since
Aug. 2. The euro lost 0.6 percent to $1.2966, a one-week low.
Ten-year Treasury yields were little changed at 1.77 percent
after losing five points earlier. Oil fluctuated near a six-week
low while the S&P GSCI commodities gauge rose 0.3 percent.  Concern about the world economy increased after reports
showed euro-area services and manufacturing output fell to a 39-
month low in September and  China ’s manufacturing probably
contracted for an 11th month. A gauge of leading U.S. economic
indicators fell and more Americans than forecast filed
unemployment claims, while profit forecasts from Norfolk
Southern Corp. and Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. disappointed
investors.  “It’s a globally synchronized economic slowdown and the
U.S. is not decoupling,” said Jeffrey Schappe, chief market
strategist of Sterling Capital Management LLC, which oversees
about $37 billion in investments. “You have to be careful
trying to fight the Fed as an investor but it may not be enough
to keep the U.S. out of a recession.”  Retreat From High  The  S&P 500 , which closed at the highest level since
December 2007 last week after the  Federal Reserve  announced
plans to buy mortgage securities to bolster the economy,
retreated for the third time in four days. The index is up 16
percent in 2012.  Bed Bath & Beyond, the operator of more than 1,000 home-
furnishing stores, dropped 9.8 percent after reporting second-
quarter profit that trailed analysts’ estimates as discounts cut
into profit margins. Norfolk Southern slid more than 9 percent
as the second-biggest eastern U.S. railroad forecast third-
quarter profit that trailed analysts’ estimates.  The S&P 500 pared early losses as ConAgra Foods Inc. jumped
6.2 percent, leading consumer-staples companies to the biggest
gain among 10 groups, after boosting its profit forecast and
dividend. Energy shares halted a three-day slump.  Stocks also recovered as the Financial Times reported that
European Union authorities are working to pave the way for a new
financial rescue for  Spain . The plan will be announced on Sept.
27 and will focus on structural reforms to the Spanish economy
requested by the EU, rather than new taxes and spending cuts,
the newspaper said, citing officials involved in the talks.  Fed Watch  Fed Bank of Minneapolis President  Narayana Kocherlakota 
said the central bank should hold the main  interest rate  near
zero until unemployment falls below 5.5 percent, marking the
first time he has linked policy to a specific economic goal. The
jobless rate was 8.1 percent in August.  “Specifying 5.5 percent as an acceptable level goes
further than what we’ve heard from even the most dovish Fed
presidents,”  Dan Greenhaus , chief global strategist at BTIG LLC
in New York, wrote in a note to clients. “It’s less important
now because the FOMC has already launched QE3 in an unending
fashion, but virtually all, if not all, regional Fed presidents
have weighed in and its amazing how far they’ve gone in terms of
favoring easing.”  Benchmark indexes opened lower after Labor Department data
showed jobless claims decreased by 3,000 last week to 382,000,
above the median forecast of 375,000 from economists surveyed by
Bloomberg projected  Economic Data  The index of U.S. leading economic indicators fell in
August, led by a decline in new orders for manufacturing. The
Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next three to
six months decreased 0.1 percent, matching the median economist
forecast. The Fed Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index
increased to minus 1.9 in September from minus 7.1 the previous
month. Economists forecast the gauge would improve to minus 4.5.  Treasuries erased gains as an auction of inflation-indexed
notes drew the weakest demand in more than three years amid
speculation that consumer prices may not rise as fast as their
yields indicated following the Fed’s latest monetary stimulus
plans. The $13 billion 10-year issue’s bid-to-cover ratio, which
gauges demand by comparing the amount bid with the amount
offered, was 2.36, the lowest level since April 2009.  TIPS Auction  Ten-year TIPS pared gains after the auction.  Yields
approached an all-time low  earlier, falling as much as six basis
points to negative 0.83 percent compared with a record minus
0.86 percent on Sept. 17. The rate ended the day at minus 0.74
percent after the auction.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped almost 0.2 percent as
mining companies and automakers led losses. Anglo American Plc
and Vedanta Resources Plc dropped at least 2.4 percent.  Telenet
Group Holding NV (TNET)  jumped 13 percent after Liberty Global Inc.,
the John Malone-led cable-TV company operating outside the U.S.,
offered to buy the almost 50 percent of the Belgian company that
it doesn’t own for 1.96 billion euros ($2.54 billion).  Germany ’s 10-year bond yield declined five basis points to
1.57 percent and the rate on similar-maturity U.K. gilts dropped
five basis points to 1.80 percent. Spain’s 10-year bond yield
rose eight basis points to 5.77 percent as the government sold
4.8 billion euros of bonds, beating the 4.5 billion euro maximum
target.  Euro Weakens  The euro declined against 14 of its 16 major counterparts,
losing 0.8 percent versus the yen.  Japan ’s currency appreciated
against 15 of its 16 main peers.  In  emerging markets , the Shanghai Composite Index tumbled
2.1 percent to the lowest level since February 2009. The Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies declined 1.4
percent.  India ’s Sensex index fell 0.8 percent and  Russia ’s
Micex Index was little changed. Benchmark gauges in  Poland ,
 Malaysia  and  Egypt  lost at least 1 percent.  “We’re very concerned about the near-term outlook for the
global economic picture,” Peter Elston, the head of Asia-
Pacific strategy at Aberdeen Asset Management, said in a
Bloomberg TV interview from  Hong Kong  today. “There’s some
fairly significant weakness just around the corner. We’re fairly
cautious.” His firm oversees about $270 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  