-- AU Optronics Fined $500 Million in U.S. for Price-Fixing
-- B y   P a m e l a   M a c L e a n   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-09-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/au-optronics-fined-500-million-in-u-s-for-price-fixing.html
AU Optronics Corp. (2409) , Taiwan’s
second-largest maker of liquid crystal display screens used in
electronic devices, was ordered to pay $500 million for
colluding with rivals to fix prices on the screens.  U.S. District Judge Susan Illston in San Francisco
sentenced AU Optronics yesterday. A jury in March found the
company guilty of a price-fixing conspiracy based on charges
filed by the U.S. Justice Department in 2009.  Illston said the $1 billion fine sought by the government
was excessive. AUO had said it should pay no more than $285
million. The judge said she would allow the  company  to pay the
fine over three years.  Executives of Hsinchu, Taiwan-based AUO secretly met with
counterparts at other panel makers in hotel rooms, karaoke bars
and tea rooms at so-called crystal meetings around  Taiwan  from
2001 to 2006 to set prices as an oversupply was pushing prices
down 40 percent, federal prosecutors told jurors during the
eight-week trial.  Illston also sentenced AUO Vice Chairman H.B. Chen,
formerly the company’s chief executive officer, and former
executive Hui Hsiung to three years in prison and ordered each
to pay a $200,000 fine.  AUO was the only LCD maker charged with price-fixing by the
U.S. to take its case to trial. Since 2008, rivals including  LG
Display Co. (034220) ,  Chunghwa Picture Tubes (2475) , Chi Mei Optoelectronics
Corp. and  Sharp Corp. (6753)  agreed to plead guilty and pay a total of
more than $890 million in fines.  Tied for Top  The AUO fine is tied with one by Swiss pharmaceutical
company F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. for the highest paid by a
company in a  Justice Department  antitrust case, according to
agency data. The  drug company  pleaded guilty and agreed to pay
$500 million for leading a worldwide conspiracy to raise the fix
prices for vitamins, the Justice Department said in 1999.  The average prison sentence in Justice Department antitrust
cases since 2010 is 24 months, according to agency data.  Seventeen executives involved in the LCD price-fixing probe
were charged, the Justice Department said in March. Ten of those
defendants pleaded guilty and were sentenced to prison.  Lidia Maher, an assistant U.S. attorney in the Justice
Department’s antitrust division, told Illston during yesterday’s
hearing that a $500 million fine wasn’t enough to deter such
cartels from forming in the future.  ‘Pervasive’ Conspiracy  “We have never seen a conspiracy so pervasive,” Maher
said. “They took a gamble to go to trial and they lost.”  Illston said during the hearing that, based on sentencing
guidelines, AU Optronics faced a range of $936 million to $1.87
billion in fines.  While she found the company was among the “organizers and
leaders of criminal activity” in the price-fixing conspiracy,
its product was “really, really good” and had changed the
industry, the judge said.  Dennis Riordan, a lawyer for AUO, told Illston the company
had set aside $277 million to cover potential liability for the
case. Illston granted his request to allow AUO to pay in
installments.  The company “does not have anything approaching $500
million,” Riordan said.  He also said the company has $6.54 billion in loans that
will become payable in full because the loans contain so-called
adverse change clauses.  AUO has said in court filings that it will appeal the
verdict. Illston rejected AUO’s request to put her sentencing
order on hold while the company appeals the case.  Illston also ordered AU Optronics and its AUO America unit
to publicize in three trade journals in Taiwan and the U.S. its
conviction, the sentences and its ethics-reform plans.  Chen and Hsiung were ordered to surrender by Nov. 30 to
begin serving their prison terms. Illston rejected requests to
delay their sentences during an appeal.  The case is U.S. v. Lin, 3:09-cr-00110, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pamela MacLean in federal court in San Francisco at
 pmaclean@pacbell.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 