-- Australia Has Scope to Cut Rates, Delay Surplus Return, IMF Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-09-20T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/australia-has-scope-to-cut-rates-delay-surplus-return-imf-says.html
Australia has scope to lower its
benchmark  interest rate  further and delay a return to a  budget
surplus  this year should the global outlook deteriorate, the
 International Monetary Fund  said.  “With expected inflation within the target range, the
strong Australian dollar, and given efforts to return the budget
to surplus this year, monetary policy should remain
accommodative, and should act as the first line of defense
against near-term adverse shocks,” the IMF said in a
preliminary annual assessment of the nation’s economy in Sydney
today.  The IMF report, part of a so-called Article IV
consultation, said Australia’s economy will grow 3.25 percent
this year, little changed from its forecast a year ago. It
downplayed the likelihood of a hard landing in China,
Australia’s biggest export market, and praised the  Reserve
Bank ’s credibility and capacity to respond quickly to unexpected
shocks.  “The Reserve Bank has the scope to lower  interest rates 
and loosen monetary conditions to help buffer against a downside
scenario,” the IMF said in the statement. “Australia’s modest
public debt gives the authorities scope to delay their planned
return to surplus and let the automatic stabilizers operate in
the event of a sharp deterioration in the economic outlook.”  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board lowered the cash
rate by a total of 1.25 percentage points from November to June
to help shield the economy from Europe’s debt crisis and slower
growth in China. At 3.5 percent, the benchmark borrowing cost is
still the highest among major developed economies.  The IMF’s report said the Australian dollar is “stronger
than would be consistent” with just the structural shift that
is re-orientating the economy toward mining.  There are “a number of factors contributing to the current
high level of the Australian dollar, including the relative
strength of the Australian economy, the gap between domestic and
foreign interest rates, and to some extent increased portfolio
investments into Australia,” the IMF said.  Should those factors ease, “the  exchange rate  would likely
depreciate,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  