-- Bahrain’s Gulf Air Resumes Flights to Iraqi Holy City
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-09-20T16:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/bahrain-s-gulf-air-resumes-flights-to-iraqi-holy-city.html
Gulf Air, Bahrain’s state-owned
carrier, resumed flights to Najaf, one of the holiest cities for
Shiite Muslims, marking the resumption of service to  Iraq  after
a halt that lasted more than a year. The Najaf airport said it
wouldn’t allow future flights,  Agence France-Presse  reported.  A flight left Bahrain to Najaf this morning, Manama-based
Gulf Air said in an e-mailed statement, and the carrier plans to
operate four weekly flights to the city.  The airport in Najaf decided to ban Gulf Air planes from
landing starting today as a sign of “solidarity with the people
of Bahrain,” the airport’s committee supervising said in a
statement, according to AFP. “This decision aims to protest
against the inhuman practices to which the Bahrainis are
subjected.”  Katherine Kaczynska, a Gulf Air spokeswoman, said the
carrier hasn’t been informed of any change in the flights to
Najaf.  “Gulf Air’s flights are operating into Iraq as scheduled,
in line with the official approval granted by the Iraqi  Civil
Aviation Authority  in  Baghdad ,” she said in an e-mail. “We
have not received any official communication from the
authorities in Iraq stating otherwise.”  Millions of Shiite pilgrims annually visit the shrine city,
where Imam Ali, the Prophet Muhammad’s son-in-low and cousin, is
buried.  Gulf Air said last month it would resume flights to
Baghdad, Erbil, Najaf and Basra in Iraq, and Tehran, Mashhad,
Shiraz and Isfahan in  Iran , that were suspended last year amid
unrest in Bahrain. The carrier canceled flights to and from Iran
and Iraq in March 2011, when Bahrain declared a three-month
state of emergency after troops from  Saudi Arabia  and other Gulf
states arrived to help quell protests driven by majority
Shiites, who were calling for democratic reform.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Cairo at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  