-- BASF Buys Becker for $1 Billion to Boost Crop Unit
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-09-20T15:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/basf-buys-becker-for-1-billion-to-boost-crop-protection-arm-1-.html
BASF SE (BAS)  agreed to buy Becker
Underwood Inc. for $1.02 billion as Kurt Bock makes his first
major acquisition as chief executive officer with a move into
biological seed treatments.  BASF will create a business unit called Functional Crop
Care to encompass the Ames, Iowa-based business, which is
forecast to generate $240 million in  sales  in the year through
September, the German chemical maker said today in a statement.
Norwest Equity Partners is exiting the asset after eight years.  Becker will feed BASF’s plans to grow in biological crop
care as well as animal nutrition as the Ludwigshafen-based
company moves away from commoditized  products  such as plastics.
Demand for seed treatment is “rapidly growing” as farmers look
to science to improve yields and fight pests, BASF said.  “This will strengthen BASF’s own seed treatment activities
and create a global leader,” Laurent Favre, an analyst at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch, said in a note. The “valuation is
punchy, but in line with previous deals.”  The price is equal to 4.25 times sales.  Novozymes A/S (NZYMB)  paid
4.6 times sales for its purchase of EMD/Merck Crop BioScience,
according to Bank of America.  Hunting Ground  “Becker seems to be highly profitable, and the purchase
makes strategic sense,” said Christian Faitz, an analyst at
Macquarie in  Frankfurt . “The price seems high based on
multiples, but it line with comparable deals, and BASF may well
be able to justify it by the high growth rates in the seed
business.”  BASF joins  Bayer AG (BAYN)  of  Germany  and  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  of
Switzerland in seeking out crop-protection companies with
biotechnology-based solutions to pest and disease problems.  Becker’s offering includes microscopic worms that feed on
soil-dwelling fungus gnats and are safe to humans and the
environment. Traditional chemicals face increased opposition in
 Europe  and the U.S. on environmental concerns as well as
consumer interest in reducing exposure to farm sprays.  “Becker Underwood has a strong position in  North
America ,” Markus Heldt, head of BASF’s crop-protection
division, said in the statement. “We will continue to expand
this core business as we expand globally.”  Bock, who took over as CEO in May 2011, is handing
investors BASF’s first billion-dollar acquisition after months
of speculation surrounding how he will use cash reserves. Becker
is expected to return an earnings before interest and taxes
margin of more than 20 percent, with a sales outlook decoupled
from the overall economy, Favre said.  “On a three-year view, it therefore seems to make a lot of
sense to us, if they can deliver on the growth potential,”
Favre said.  Greenhill & Co. advised Norwest Equity Partners.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  