-- Bawag in Talks With Cerberus About Capital Injection
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-09-20T12:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/bawag-in-talks-with-cerberus-about-capital-injection.html
Byron Haynes, the head of Austrian
lender Bawag PSK Bank AG, is in talks about a capital injection
with main shareholder Cerberus Capital Management LP as he
prepares for new bank rules and the repayment of state aid.  Bawag, the country’s fourth-biggest bank, is required to
replace about 170 million euros ($220 million) of hybrid capital
it bought back in March with fresh funds that are compliant with
new rules from the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ,
Haynes said today in an interview in Vienna. The replacement can
be in equity or in forms of hybrid debt, with the former being
his preferred option, Haynes said.  “I’m in dialogue with the shareholder, with Cerberus,
about future capital injections in support of our plans,”
Haynes said. Cerberus, the private-equity firm led by  Stephen Feinberg , said in a separate statement today that it will
support “potential capital actions” at Bawag.  Bawag hasn’t produced returns for its shareholders since a
Cerberus-led group bought the lender for 3.2 billion euros in
2006. Haynes, who took on the job in 2009, has headed an
expansion of the retail lender’s reach by using 500 Austrian
post offices as branches in the past two years. He’s
accelerating a program started in 2010 to cut costs and jobs,
and last week shut down the lender’s proprietary trading desk.  While Haynes said Bawag may cut a “reasonably
significant” number off its 4,000 staff, he dismissed a report
in Wiener Zeitung newspaper this week saying he would fire as
many as 700 and shut down the bank’s corporate client division.  Cost-Income  “Our cost-income-ratio is 10 to 15 percentage points
higher than the Austrian market, and there’s pressure on
revenues, so of course we’re looking at costs,” Haynes said. He
said it may be possible to bring down that ratio to below 60
percent next year, from 66.3 percent in the six months to June
30, if  interest rates  don’t remain at current record-low levels.  Bawag was founded as a workers’ bank in 1922 by Karl
Renner, a socialist and  Austria ’s first chancellor after World
War I. The lender will continue to invest mostly in retail
banking, Haynes said, citing consumer finance as one of the
areas the bank is targeting.  While Bawag won’t abandon its corporate customers, Haynes
said that the strong competition in the Austrian market meant
that he didn’t see that area as a growth business. He confirmed
that Bawag is evaluating options for its leasing business.  The bank, which Cerberus bought from the Austrian trade
union federation, lost money each year from 2007 to 2009,
causing the New York-based private-equity company to inject 205
million euros into Bawag, with the Austrian state providing an
additional 550 million euros.  ’Stands Behind’  Cerberus said in a statement today that it may come up with
additional capital, if needed, contrary to the Sept. 18 Wiener
Zeitung report which said that it wasn’t. It “stands behind and
continues to support its investment in Bawag PSK, including
potential capital actions which will enable Bawag to execute
successfully its strategic business plan,” the firm said in an
e-mailed statement today.  The lender, which already had to be rescued by the
government in 2006 before the purchase by Cerberus, is now
preparing for so-called Basel III rules. More than a quarter of
its core reserves consist of capital that will be phased out
under theses new rules or have to be replaced for other reasons.  Bawag’s core Tier 1 capital ratio rose to 8.8 percent at
the end of June, from 7.8 percent at the end of 2011. That
measure includes the non-voting capital the lender received from
the government. The state capital costs Bawag 9.3 percent
interest annually until next year, and will get increasingly
more expensive starting in 2014.  Under the aid deal, Bawag isn’t allowed to pay dividends to
the equity holders until this year, and dividends are restricted
thereafter until the state is repaid.  The bank’s capital also includes hybrid securities no
longer recognized as loss-absorbing under Basel III. Bawag
bought back two-thirds of those securities in March and has said
it will have to replace them with new capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  