-- BBVA Chairman Sees Spain Seeking Precautionary Credit Line
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-09-20T15:49:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/bbva-chairman-sees-spain-seeking-precautionary-credit-line.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) 
Chairman  Francisco Gonzalez  said Spain won’t need a full
bailout, and it’s more “realistic” to think it will seek a
precautionary credit line.  “No way are we talking about a bailout,” Gonzalez said in
response to a question at a conference in Madrid today. “We
won’t see in Spain a bailout like in Greece or Portugal. It’s
more realistic to talk of a precautionary credit line” from the
euro-area rescue fund for countries in financial difficulty.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has said since Aug. 3
he will consider whether to seek an external aid package that
would allow the European Central Bank to buy the nation’s bonds.
While the government hasn’t said publicly which type of help it
is considering, Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria
twice this week set out the arguments for ECB bond buying.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in an
interview on Sept. 13 Spain would be “daft” to seek a full
international bailout. A precautionary program would be enough
to allow the ECB to start buying bonds, President  Mario Draghi 
said on Sept. 6.  Gonzalez, head of Spain’s second-biggest bank, said the
ECB’s “firm” support marked the “beginning of the end of the
crisis.”  He estimated the results of a stress test by consulting
firm Oliver Wyman of Spain’s financial system would reveal
capital needs of 70 billion euros ($91 billion) to 80 billion
euros, including 19 billion euros already injected in the
system. The results, the second phase of a test whose
preliminary results in July showed banks may need as much as 62
billion euros, will be published on Sept. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in  Madrid  at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  