-- Billabong Slumps on Concern Bid May Be Cut After Rival Walks
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-09-20T07:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/billabong-bidder-drops-out-leaving-a-694-million-sale-to-tpg-1-.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG)  shares
slumped in Sydney trading on concern a A$694 million ($726
million) conditional offer from TPG International LLC may be
reduced after a competing bidder walked away.  The stock  fell  to A$1.34, which is 7.6 percent below TPG’s
conditional price of A$1.45 a share. The second bidder, which
wasn’t named, withdrew after earlier indicating it would match
TPG, Billabong said in a statement today.  “Those guys have to work out what price they’re prepared
to pay. From my perspective it’s below A$1,” said Tony Wilson,
an analyst at Evans & Partners in  Melbourne  with a ‘sell’ rating
on the stock. “The board may have to settle for A$1.45 if
that’s what TPG wants to pay.”  The second bidder, which like TPG signed a confidentiality
agreement to gain access to private financial data, is walking
away as Billabong fires workers, closes stores and sells assets
amid record losses. Boston-based Bain Capital LLC made the
competing offer, people familiar with the matter said Sept. 6.  Billabong  shares  slumped 7.3 percent at the close trading
in Sydney, the biggest decline since July 9.  The  Gold Coast , Australia-based surfwear maker became a
target for buyout groups following a slump in its  share price 
triggered by a fall in earnings and the need to repay debt.  Billabong last month posted a A$276 million net loss, its
first since listing in 2000, and wrote off 42 percent of the
value of its namesake label as a consumer slowdown forced it to
sell inventory at a loss and pay penalties to close stores
before leases expired.  ‘No Guarantee’  While the process with TPG continues, there is no guarantee
that a transaction will be agreed or that the board will
recommend any proposal, Billabong said in its statement today.  The company this month said a A$1.45-a-share bid doesn’t
reflect “the fundamental value of Billabong in the context of a
change of control transaction.”  TPG, the buyout firm run by  David Bonderman , started due
diligence on Billabong in late August, according to the
Australian company.  Billabong in February rejected an offer of A$3.30 a share
from TPG. Founder and largest shareholder Gordon Merchant,
together with director Colette Paull, said they wouldn’t
consider a bid of less than A$4 a share. Billabong has since
increased its issued capital by 86 percent after it raised A$225
million selling new stock at a discount to repay debt.  Due Diligence  Billabong said July 24 that TPG returned with a A$1.45-a-
share indicative offer, adding three days later that it “may be
refined” after the group completed due diligence. Colonial
First State Investment Ltd. and Perennial Value Management Ltd.
agreed to sell about 12.5 percent of Billabong’s issued capital
to  Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG, Billabong said in that
statement.  Australian clothing producers have become a target for
buyout groups as the weaker retail spending cuts valuations.  Pacific Brands Ltd. (PBG) , which licenses the Everlast label,
received an unsuccessful approach from KKR & Co. in January. Rip
Curl Group Pty., a closely-held board-sports brand, is exploring
a sale for as much as A$500 million, a person with direct
knowledge of the matter said Sept. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  