-- Bondholder Revenge Delayed Means $25 Billion Cost: Mortgages
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-09-20T20:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/bondholder-revenge-delayed-means-25-billion-cost-mortgages.html
For the second time in less than a
week, bank investors got a reminder the companies can’t escape
from bad mortgages sold during the U.S. housing boom.  A bondholder group that last year won a preliminary $8.5
billion settlement from  Bank of America Corp.  said yesterday it
was escalating its fights with Morgan Stanley and  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  That followed a Sept. 14 lawsuit against  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  by bond insurer  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  that underscored how existing
cases are strengthening the hands of those seeking compensation.  While the housing market is recovering after a 35 percent
slump in  prices  from the 2006 peak, lawsuits are being filed
every week as legal deadlines approach. Lenders may book an
extra $25 billion or more to resolve complaints tied to mortgage
debt, according to Compass Point Research & Trading LLC.  “I don’t think the banks could have recognized what they
owed upfront and still remained solvent, so it doesn’t surprise
me that they’ve dragged their heels” in setting aside money for
the cases, saidIsaac Gradman, an attorney who consults on such
litigation. “It’s surprised me that more investors didn’t more
quickly take up the cause of fighting for what’s theirs.”  Eleven lenders tracked by Washington-based Compass Point
have so far recognized 51 percent of the potential expenses of
repurchasing faulty mortgages packaged into securities without
government backing, according to a report last month by Compass
Point analysts Kevin Barker and  Mike Turner . That leaves about
$25 billion, according to their “base-case” estimate.  Fannie, Freddie  In contrast, lenders have set aside almost enough for bad
loans sold to government-supported  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac 
from 2005 through 2009. The analysts estimate 89 percent of the
$43.4 billion in probable costs have already been realized.  Investors have suffered losses on mortgage securities as
defaults soared amid tumbling  home prices  and a jump in  job
losses . Bondholders and insurers accuse banks of delivering debt
that misrepresented risks because mortgages contained errors
including inflated appraisals and overstated borrower incomes.  “We will review any communication we receive and respond
appropriately,”  Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman for San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo, said yesterday in response to the investor
group’s statement. Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for New
York-based Morgan Stanley, declined to comment, as did Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America.  Jennifer Zuccarelli  of New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment.  The 24-company  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  fell 0.7 percent as of 4:19
p.m. in  New York , trimming gains in the stock gauge this year to
28 percent. The companies trade at a 12 percent discount to
their  book value , a measure of assets minus liabilities.  New Policies  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s expanded efforts in the first
half of this year to get refunds that reduce the size of their
taxpayer bailouts boosted the cost of faulty home loans and
foreclosures at the biggest U.S. banks to at least $84 billion
since 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The two companies last week unveiled policies meant to give
lenders more comfort about their risks with new loans, after the
 Federal Reserve  said the threat of so-called putbacks is causing
banks to keep  lending standards  too tight.  The restriction in credit has been blunting Fed efforts to
help the housing market by keeping borrowing costs at record
lows. The central bank last week said it would buy an additional
$40 billion of government-backed mortgage securities a month.
Even as existing home sales climbed in August to the highest
levels in two years, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  called the
residential  property market  “one of the missing pistons in the
engine” of the economic recovery.  Lower Costs  Compass Point said that losses from so-called non-agency
securities would be lower if some investors don’t assert their
rights. Costs could also grow since the analysts didn’t include
all banks and focused on the contractual responsibilities of
lenders and bond issuers tied to their descriptions of loan
quality, called representations and warranties.  Underwriters can also face separate claims including fraud
cases, which, while harder to prove, can bring larger damages,
said Gradman, of Petaluma, California-based IMG Enterprises LLC.
In addition, Wall Street banks created collateralized debt
obligations comprised of  derivatives  tied to housing debt.  One reason for the flurry of recent litigation is that the
six-year statute of limitations for certain claims is nearing.
That would include deals created before housing crashed that
subsequently had the highest default rates. The new cases add to
pressure on banks to set aside reserves, Compass Point said.  MBIA Case  MBIA’s latest case against JPMorgan stems from documents
the bond insurer obtained in a separate suit filed in 2010. The
Armonk, New York-based firm had targeted a now-bankrupt unit of
Ally Financial Inc. that issued the securities involved.  The documents showed a mortgage-review firm found in 2006
that about a third of the home-equity loans in a pool set to be
included in $1.1 billion of securities failed to match the
underwriting guidelines of the lender, Ally’s GMAC Mortgage
Corp., or applicable laws, according to the suit.  Bear Stearns Cos., the deal’s underwriter, stripped data
that showed the flaws from a spreadsheet before passing it to
MBIA, the guarantor said in the suit filed in New York State
Supreme Court in Westchester. JPMorgan bought Bear Stearns in
2008 as the investment bank teetered on the edge of collapse.  JPMorgan has also received mortgage-repurchase demands from
Gibbs & Bruns LLP, the  law firm  that represented 22 bondholders
including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Pacific Investment Management Co.
that  settled  last year with Bank of America over securities
created by Countrywide Financial Corp.  Issued Notices  The law firm yesterday said that it issued notices of
default to Wells Fargo and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  over $73 billion of
securities. Those notices can escalate the responsibilities of
mortgage-bond trustees, which investors typically must rely on
to act on their behalf, or allow bondholders to sue.  While Bank of America’s deal is awaiting court approval,
 attorneys general  from New York and  Delaware  have intervened to
seek more information. New York has said there are “serious
questions about the fairness and adequacy” of the accord, which
covers just “a small fraction” of losses.  Investors have also filed new lawsuits over the past month
against  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
 Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)  A spokesman for Credit Suisse said at
the time the bank will “vigorously defend” itself. Spokesmen
from the other banks declined to comment when the suits were
filed.  That followed a slew of previous cases, including Federal
Housing Finance Agency litigation against 17 banks that was
filed in September 2011 over $196 billion of non-agency bonds
bought by  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac.  Goldman Sachs  In addition, a class-action suit against Goldman Sachs over
mortgage securities was revived this month by a federal appeals
court in New York. A three-judge panel overturned a previous
ruling saying investors led by the NECA-IBEW Health & Welfare
Fund, lacked standing to represent bondholders in offerings they
didn’t own with similar problems.  Other legal rulings this year on the substance of cases
have also gone against banks and emboldened investors, Gradman
said. Issues included whether lenders need to repurchase shoddy
loans even if their misrepresentations weren’t responsible for
defaults, and if mortgage-bond trustees can be held liable when
they don’t pursue putbacks.  Bank ‘Hangover’  Documents obtained in discovery, the exchange of evidence
before trial, are ensuring that banks face a “hangover” for
potentially “years to come,” said Manal Mehta, founder of San
Francisco-based hedge fund Sunesis Capital, which has invested
in bond insurers doing battle with banks over bad mortgages.  In a January deposition taken in lawsuits by bond insurers
Syncora Guarantee Inc. and Ambac Assurance Corp., a former
underwriter at due-diligence firms that were used by Bears
Stearns alleged that the investment bank pushed them to find
reasons to sign off on every loan, according to excerpts from a
transcript submitted in court.  One case that stood out involved the amount of monthly pay
listed for a so-called stated income loan from  California ,
according to the deposition of an individual whose name was
redacted. The borrower was an assistant manager at a McDonald’s
Corp. restaurant.  “I believe $8,500 for someone that’s around about 19 or 20
coming out of high school was not reasonable,” the individual
said. “You are not even the owner of a McDonald’s.”  That type of story ensures banks face more losses from
mortgage-backed securities cases, Mehta said.  “Although MBS litigation is no longer in the forefront of
news, that doesn’t mean it’s gone,” he said. “Damaging
testimony from whistleblowers and other evidence collected
through an exhaustive discovery process in litigation by the
bond insurers is finally starting to rear its ugly head.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban in New York at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  