-- Bond Volatility Approaches Record Low as Fed Drains Convexity
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-09-20T13:15:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/bond-volatility-approaches-record-low-as-fed-drains-convexity.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s decision to
hold  borrowing costs  steady into 2015 and buy mortgage debt each
month is reducing bond market volatility and demand for options
that hedge against changes in interest rates.  Mortgage bond holders often use swaptions, or options on
 interest-rate swaps , to guard against swings in rates, which can
trigger changes in levels of expected mortgage refinancing and
the debt’s value. Losses on mortgage debt are greater than on
similar maturity and coupon Treasuries when interest rates rise
due to so-called negative convexity, which causes the bonds
duration, a measure of price sensitivity to interest-rate
changes, to simultaneously increase.  Bond market volatility is already approaching the lowest
levels since just before the global financial crisis. The fall
suggests the $40 billion monthly mortgage purchases and rate
guidance announced last week by the Fed may prove to be
successful in pushing investors into higher-returning assets, a
goal of the central bank as it seeks to spur economic growth and
lower unemployment.  “The combination of the strengthened forward rate guidance
from the Fed and a new round of quantitative easing is a
negative for volatility,” said Ruslan Bikbov, a fixed-income
strategist in New York at Bank of America Corp. “The perception
of a longer Fed-on-hold and the fact that the central bank is
taking negative convexity out of the mortgage-backed  securities
market  will cause volatility to decline.”  Volatility Gauge  Normalized volatility  on three-month options for 10-year
U.S. interest-rate swaps, known as 3m10y swaptions, fell to as
low as 73.9 basis points yesterday, from 83.6 basis points on
Sept. 13, the day before the  Federal Open Market Committee 
announced new steps to ease monetary policy. The rate fell in
July to the lowest since June 2007. The gauge of volatility on
swaptions signals expectations for the pace of fluctuations in
swap rates.  In a swap, two parties agree to exchange fixed for variable-
rate payments over a set period. Swap rates are higher than
Treasury yields because the floating rate payments on a swap are
based on  interest rates  that contain credit risk, such as the
London interbank offered rate, or Libor.  The FOMC also said in its statement last week that “a
highly accommodative stance of monetary policy will remain
appropriate for a considerable time after the economic recovery
strengthens,” heightening speculation that debt purchase and
rates will prove prolonged.  Policy makers have kept their target rate for overnight
loans between banks in a range of zero to 0.25 percentage point
since December 2008. They extended their forward guidance on the
level into 2015 from 2014 last week.  Market Volatility  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE Index, which measures
the outlook for the pace of debt  price swings  based on options,
declined to 57.5 basis points yesterday, the least since closing
at 56.7 basis points May 7. The index reached a high for the
year of 95.40 basis points on June 15. The record low of 51.20
basis points was in May 2007.  Another factor likely to depress volatility is that some of
the sellers of the mortgage securities to the Fed may choose to
replace the optionality lost in their portfolios in the process,
according to Neela Gollapudi, a New York-based strategist at
Citigroup Inc.  “The owners of un-hedged MBS positions who give the
securities over to the Fed will have to replace it somewhere
else,” Gollapudi said in an interview.  “If they want to do
that in the options market, they would sell swaptions. The
likely impact on swaption volatility will not be negligible.”  Biggest Buyer  Normalized volatility on 3y10y swaptions is likely to fall
five to seven basis points over the next three months, Gollapudi
said. The volatility was 87.8 basis points today, down from
90.75 basis points at the start of the month.  The central bank’s asset purchases “removed a considerable
amount of assets with high convexity risk,” wrote  Joseph
Gagnon , Matthew Raskin, Julie Remache and  Brian Sack  in a March
2010 Federal Reserve Bank of New York staff report, that
concluded the first round of quantitative easing lowered
borrowing costs.  The Fed may already be the biggest buyer in the agency
mortgage-bond market after starting in October to purchase new
securities with proceeds from its past acquisitions of housing-
related debt, including $1.25 trillion of home-loan notes
through March 2010. It has bought $305 billion of securities
under the reinvestment program, which it announced with the
first round of its so-called Operation Twist program for
Treasuries, where it swaps short- for long-term debt on its
portfolio.  Including the existing program in which the Fed is
reinvesting proceeds from its past purchase of housing debt into
the market, the central bank will be buying about $65 billion to
$70 billion a month, according to Bank of America.  “The Fed will be buying mortgages, and they’re not going
to hedge out any of the convexity,” Nancy Davis, director of
derivatives in  New York  at AllianceBernstein LP, said in a
telephone interview. “That is one reason why rate volatility
has been selling off aggressively. The Fed being on hold until
2015 is also volatility damping.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net . 