-- BP Gambles Putin Will Be Better Russia Partner Than Billionaires
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-09-20T12:03:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/bp-gambles-putin-will-be-better-russia-partner-than-billionaires.html
BP Plc (BP/)  is set to gamble that 
 Vladimir Putin  will be a better partner in Russia than the 
billionaires who own half its TNK-BP oil venture.  BP may acquire as much as 12.5 percent of  OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  as
part of a deal to sell half of TNK to Russia’s state-owned oil
company, Kommersant reported today, citing unidentified people
with knowledge of the negotiations. Rosneft is seeking up to $15
billion in loans to buy BP out of its 50-50 partnership, people
with knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  While a minority stake in Russia’s largest oil producer
will give BP little day-to-day control, it may open
opportunities to explore untapped Arctic reserves and Siberia’s
unconventional fields, analysts said. BP Chief Executive Officer
Bob Dudley, who decided to sell the TNK shares in July after
years of troublesome relations with the other investors, met
Putin and Rosneft CEO  Igor Sechin  this week to discuss the
London-based company’s future in the country.  “It could turn out to be a good deal,” said Iain Armstrong, an analyst at Brewin Dolphin Ltd. in  London . “You’re
then in Russia with Putin’s national champion. It’s a potential
feather in the cap for Bob Dudley and allows the company to
spread their wings in joint ventures where the terms aren’t so
onerous.”  BP spokesman David Nicholas declined to commment on the
progress of negotiations to sell the company’s TNK shares.  Dudley told investors in July that they should be open to a
combination of cash and shares for TNK-BP, which has paid BP $19
billion in dividends since 2003 and accounts for a quarter of
the company’s global output.  Exploration Pact  Mikhail Fridman  and BP’s other billionaire partners in TNK
blocked a $7.8 billion share swap and exploration pact with
Rosneft last year in court, arguing that BP was required to
pursue all opportunities in Russia exclusively through TNK-BP.  AAR, which represents the partners in TNK-BP, has said
they’re interested in buying half of BP’s 50 percent stake.  Putin is inviting foreign producers into Russia to help
keep the country’s oil output at a post-Soviet high of 10
million barrels a day.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  took BP’s place in a
Kara Sea exploration pact that failed last year and also agreed
to start drilling shale prospects in Siberia next year.  Putin and Rosneft would also be getting a good deal by
paying for a stake in TNK-BP partly in shares, analysts at
Sberbank CIB said.  Russia  owns 75 percent of Rosneft and
thecompany itself has more than 10 percent of its shares.  “For Rosneft shareholders, being able to convert part of
the deadweight treasury shares into a stake in a cash-yielding
asset would obviously seem attractive,” analysts led by Oleg Maximov said in a research note today.  Fractious Relations  The nine-year-old TNK-BP venture has been profitable as BP
was able to use its know-how to revive production from aging
fields. TNK-BP produced 2.03 million barrels of oil and gas a
day in the second quarter, and output at Rosneft, Russia’s
largest producer, was about 2.62 million barrels a day.  Still, relations between BP and its partners have often
been fractious. In 2008, Dudley was forced to resign as head of
the venture and leave Russia after months of battling between
the shareholders over strategy. Fridman quit as CEO of TNK-BP
this year, saying the relationship with BP had run its course.
TNK hasn’t paid dividends on any 2012 income because it has
lacked a functioning board since December.  Some investors may be wary of accepting Rosneft shares for
BP’s stake in TNK-BP, said  Jason Kenney , an analyst for  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  in Edinburgh. The bank lowered its recommendation
on BP to Hold from Buy on Sept. 18.  Chasing Resources  “BP shareholders could choose to invest in Rosneft
directly if they wished,” he said.  At the same time, keeping access to Russia is important for
BP as it tries to ramp up production as it sells assets to shore
up its balance sheet following the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil
spill. Russia was second only to  Saudi Arabia  in oil production
last year.  “You’ve got to go where the resources are,” Kenney said.
“Oil and gas reserves last well beyond regimes and economic
cycles. If you can get an exploration legacy in a place like
Russia on fair terms, it’s beneficial for everybody.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  