-- Brokers Need More Discipline to Avoid Trading Errors, Finra Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-09-20T23:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/brokers-need-more-discipline-to-avoid-trading-errors-finra-says.html
Debacles like Knight Capital Group
Inc.’s August trading loss will be avoided if brokers exercise
more vigilance overseeing their risk controls, according to the
head of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Rules requiring brokers to check orders before sending them
to markets to ensure they’re correct and don’t exceed capital
and credit thresholds went into effect last year. While most
firms are complying, more discipline is needed overseeing
operations and risk,  Richard Ketchum , CEO of Finra, said at a
Security Traders Association conference in  Washington  yesterday.  “Firms need to re-examine how prepared they are to deal
with inevitable problems that come out of testing,” Ketchum
said. That involves “ensuring that there’s someone on the
trading desk always with responsibility to make a determination
on whether to stop the flow going to exchanges,” and
“reviewing how quickly that order flow gets stopped,” he said.  Kill switches, or mechanisms that would shut off a
company’s trading activity, are being discussed by regulators,
brokers and exchange executives in the wake of Knight’s $440
million loss when it mistakenly fired orders to exchanges on
Aug. 1. A second set of protections for errant orders at
exchanges, which could supplement what brokers do, may make
sense, Ketchum said.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s so-called
market-access rules, devised to reduce systemic risks caused by
disruptive trading, apply to all orders from brokers including
those they submit on behalf of clients and their own proprietary
activity, Ketchum said. While brokers have “clearly complied
with the spirit of the rule,” based on compliance examinations
Finra is conducting, the efforts need more rigor, he said.  Sponsoring Orders  “There are instances where there isn’t nearly the type of
testing, nearly the type of rigor, particularly with respect to
sponsoring customer orders,” Ketchum said. Still, “most firms
really are taking it seriously,” he said.  Brokers should make sure they have written and up-to-date
protocols for how to respond when trading goes awry, Ketchum
said. Spelling out the process in advance is a “no-brainer”
and more effective than deciding what to do on the fly, he said.  “Firms should consider testing the systems they use to
monitor and identify problematic activity and early warning
signs of such activity,” Ketchum said. The ability to stop
trading should also be tested. In addition, “kill switches have
to be far more hair-trigger than they have been in the past” to
limit problems before they snowball, he said.  Kill Switch  Executives at  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ,  Nasdaq OMX (NDAQ)  Group Inc. and Bats
Global Markets Inc., the largest U.S. stock exchange operators,
said yesterday they’re willing to discuss how kill switches
could be implemented by their companies to augment what brokers
do. The onus on catching accidental trades should remain with
brokers, they said.  Any kill switch from an exchange should be a “backstop”
and trigger infrequently, Joseph Mecane, head of U.S. equities
at NYSE Euronext, said Sept. 18 at a Georgetown University
conference on financial markets in Washington. “The primary
responsibility should still lie with the firm generating the
orders.”  Eric Noll , an executive at Nasdaq OMX, said it’s important
to distinguish between a broker-dealer’s errant trading behavior
and activity that may injure the broader marketplace. Firms that
rely on exchanges for tasks they should oversee themselves may
have less incentive to do the checks on their own, he said.  ‘Kneejerk Reaction’  “It sounds great as a kneejerk reaction,” Chris Isaacson,
chief operating officer at Bats, said of exchanges instituting
kill switches. Figuring out the threshold for cutting off a firm
may be harder in practice and raises questions about who’s
liable if the decision to end trading hurts the broker
financially. “Who handles the liability of shutting that off?”  While Bats is open to a discussion about kill switches, the
triggers should be automated and objective, Isaacson said.
Numerical thresholds may need to be set too high to be useful to
eliminate the possibility of stopping trading that’s a
legitimate response to the day’s events and volatility, even if
it exceeds normal daily volume levels, he said.  Finra’s examinations related to the market-access rule have
driven the organization, which oversees about 4,400 securities
firms, to focus on manipulation and potentially improper trading
practices in equities and options, Ketchum said. These include
surges in order message traffic without sufficient monitoring of
that activity, he said.  The SEC is also conducting its own examination sweeps about
risk controls, according to  Robert Cook , director of the
agency’s trading and markets division, who spoke yesterday at
the Security Traders Association conference.  Certified Controls  The SEC’s Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations
is conducting reviews of brokers to make sure they’ve instituted
the required controls and that the chief executive officer is
certifying that the risk management checks and processes are in
place, Cook said. It’s also examining “order processing
technology,” he said. One focus is on ensuring that the
controls are “reasonably designed” to catch mistakes, he said.  The SEC’s trading and markets division will work with  OCIE 
“to review results from these sweeps and to assess how well the
rule may be working,” Cook said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 