-- Brown Wins as California Gets Best Bonds Since ’94
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-09-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/brown-wins-as-california-gets-best-bonds-since-94.html
California debt is poised to extend
its biggest rally in at least 18 years as Governor  Jerry Brown 
curbs borrowing and pushes for tax increases to plug budget
deficits.  The extra yield over top-rated municipal bonds that
investors demand to own 10-year securities of the most-populous
U.S. state and its localities is set to fall for a fifth
straight quarter. It’s the longest streak since 1994, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. California issuers are on a pace to
sell about a third less than in 2009, stoking demand for a $1.55
billion state general-obligation sale to start tomorrow.  At  0.75 percentage point , the  interest-rate  penalty
California borrowers pay above AAA has dropped by a third since
Brown, a 74-year-old Democrat, took office last year and began
whittling down chronic deficits. The securities have also
benefited as investors sought higher returns with tax-free
yields close to a  45-year low .  “California did not fall into the fiscal sea,” said Chris Ryon, who helps manage $8.3 billion of munis, including a
California fund, at Thornburg Investment Management in  Santa Fe ,
 New Mexico . “Jerry Brown looks like he is really trying to make
some cuts and shore up things.”  Decision Looming  Voters in November will decide on Brown’s ballot measure to
temporarily raise sales taxes and income levies on higher
earners, money he counted in his budget that closed a $16
billion deficit.  His Republican predecessor,  Arnold Schwarzenegger , dealt
with a cumulative $104 billion of deficits during his seven-year
tenure. He presided over budget negotiations that extended as
much as four months into the fiscal year, and in 2009, the state
had to rely on IOUs for six weeks to pay its bills. Also in
2009, issuers in the state sold a record $67.6 billion of debt,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Starting with marketing to individual investors tomorrow,
Treasurer Bill Lockyer is scheduled to offer $1 billion of bonds
for public-works projects and $550 million to refund debt.
Lockyer plans to offer about $5.3 billion this year, about a
quarter of the state’s sales in 2009.  ‘Pent-up Demand’  “There’s definitely pent-up demand,” said Craig Brothers,
a managing director in  Los Angeles  at Bel Air Investment
Advisors, which has about $3.2 billion of assets.  In Lockyer’s April general-obligation sale, 10-year bonds
were priced to yield 2.87 percent, or 0.72 percentage point more
than a Bloomberg Fair Value  index  of top-rated munis. The spread
over AAAs hadn’t been that small since December 2008.  Bonds of the world’s ninth-biggest economy have returned
6.6 percent in 2012, beating all but three states and the 5.7
percent gain for the broader $3.7 trillion muni market,
according to  Standard & Poor’s  data.  “We are pleased with the performance of California bonds
and with the market’s recognition of the substantial fiscal
strides we have made,” said Lockyer’s spokesman,  Tom Dresslar .  Brown signed a second straight on-time budget in June, the
first time in a dozen years the state can boast that
accomplishment. He has benefited from a voter initiative that
reduced the legislative threshold to pass a budget to a simple
majority, from two-thirds under Schwarzenegger.  ‘Realistic’ Solutions  Standard & Poor’s at the time called the plan’s deficit
solutions “realistic,” in line with the positive outlook it
gave in February to California debt. The state of 37 million
people has an A- general-obligation rating from S&P, six levels
below the top and lower than any state.  “The problems of the state are much more self-inflicted
wounds that they’re working on curing,” Brian Mayhew, chief
financial officer of the Bay Area Toll Authority, which oversees
state-owned toll bridges in the San Francisco area, said in a
Sept. 17 interview at Bloomberg’s  New York  office. “And they’re
past the impasse of the budgets not being approved until
November.”  The  yield  on benchmark tax-free debt due in 10 years was
little changed yesterday at about 1.78 percent, according to a
Bloomberg Valuation index. The interest rate set a record low of
1.63 percent in July.  Following are pending sales:  MASSACHUSETTS plans to issue $1.6 billion of general-
obligation debt via competitive sale as soon as next week, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The debt will finance capital
projects. (Updated Sept. 20)  VIRGINIA HOUSING DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY is set to sell $175
million of taxable revenue debt as soon as next week, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. (Added Sept. 20)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  