-- Brown Tax Increase Losing Support of Voters, Poll Finds
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-09-20T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/brown-tax-increase-losing-support-of-voters-poll-finds.html
Voter favor is waning for
 California  Governor  Jerry Brown ’s November ballot initiative to
raise taxes he says are needed to offset deep cuts to public
schools, according to a poll released today.  Support among likely voters for Brown’s measure, which
would increase sales and income taxes, leads 51 percent to 36
percent in the survey by the Institute of Governmental Studies
at the  University of California , Berkeley and The Field Poll.
That’s down from 54 percent to 38 percent in July. Undecided
voters rose to 13 percent from 8 percent.  The state budget signed by Brown in June counts on more
than $8 billion of revenue from the higher taxes. If voters say
no, it would trigger a $5.5 billion cut from schools, the
equivalent to three weeks off the academic year.  A competing income-tax increase proposed by  Molly Munger ,
the daughter of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s vice chairman, Charles Munger, also lost support in the latest poll, sliding to 41
percent from 46 percent in July. Voters against the measure fell
to 44 percent from 46 percent, with undecideds almost doubling
to 15 percent from 8 percent.  Under Brown’s plan, California’s state sales tax, already
the highest in the U.S., would rise to 7.5 percent from 7.25
percent. The proposal would boost rates on income starting at
$250,000, with those making $1 million or more, now taxed at
10.3 percent, paying 13.3 percent, the most of any state.  Republicans Blocked  The governor sought a ballot initiative with the help of
labor unions after Republican lawmakers in 2011 blocked a vote
on whether to extend expiring taxes.  Brown and the unions have raised more than $32 million to
help pass their plan, according to  MapLight , a nonpartisan
research organization based in Berkeley.  Munger, who has poured $20 million of her own money into
her initiative, would increase taxes on income of $7,316 or
more, from 0.4 percent for the lowest earners to 2.2 percent for
individuals making more than $2.5 million a year. It would raise
$10 billion annually for 12 years.  Under Munger’s proposal, 30 percent of the additional
revenue would pay school-bond debt for the first four years. For
the remaining eight years, all the money would go to education.  An initiative to close a tax break for out-of-state
corporations saw a slight increase in support, to 45 percent
from 44 percent in July. The campaign led by Thomas Steyer,
chairman of San Francisco-based hedge fund Farallon Capital
Management LLC, would require businesses to figure their taxes
solely on in-state sales. Opposition declined to 39 percent from
43 percent in July.  That measure would raise about $1 billion annually, with
half set aside for the state’s general fund and half for energy-
efficiency programs. Steyer has spent $22 million of his fortune
on the measure.  The poll of 902 registered voters considered likely to take
part in the November 2012 general election was conducted Sept. 6
to Sept. 18. It has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.4
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  