-- Bullard Says U.S. Growth Path May Be Reduced for Years
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-09-20T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/bullard-says-u-s-growth-path-may-be-reduced-for-years.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said U.S. growth may have been reduced
for many years by a post-crisis reduction in consumer debt and
there isn’t much the Fed can do to speed the recovery.  “The aftermath of major financial crises tends to be
marked by many years of slower-than-normal growth,” Bullard
said today in a speech at South Bend, Indiana, citing research
by economists  Carmen Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff . “A version of
this seems to have happened in the U.S.”  Bullard said prior to the Fed’s decision last week to
expand its holdings of long-term securities that he was opposed
to a third round of quantitative easing. He was the first policy
maker to voice support for asset purchases in 2010.  The Federal Open Market Committee, led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , is seeking to boost growth and reduce 8.1 percent
unemployment through open-ended purchases of $40 billion in
mortgage debt a month.  “As the dust has settled since 2008, it has become more
and more apparent that U.S. real GDP is growing along a
different path than the bubble-induced, pre-crisis path,”
Bullard said, referring to gross domestic product. “Attempting
to target nominal GDP without adjustment for the Reinhart-Rogoff
effect could be an unmitigated disaster,” leading to higher
inflation, he said.  Wealth Loss  Once policy is adjusted for the permanent loss of wealth
following the crisis, U.S. growth appears to be “about on
target,” Bullard, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this
year, said at the University of Notre Dame. Inflation seems to
be about on target as well, he said.  The Fed’s latest stimulus has come under criticism this
week, with Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  saying more asset
purchases would risk higher inflation without speeding up
employment gains. Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker , who
dissented, said there would be a “minimal effect on jobs.”  Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren , meanwhile, said the
action was necessary to prevent long-term scarring of the labor
market and Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said job
creation has been “far from satisfactory.”  In addition to undertaking more bond buying, the Fed said
last week that economic conditions would likely warrant holding
their target interest rate near zero through at least mid-2015,
extending a previous date of late 2014. The Fed said low
interest rates will remain appropriate for a “considerable
time” after growth strengthens.  Bullard joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of Arkansas and parts of Illinois,
 Indiana , Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri and Tennessee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  