-- Canada July Employment Insurance Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-09-20T12:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/canada-july-employment-insurance-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s employment insurance report for July released
by  Statistics Canada .  A total of 508,000 people received regular Employment Insurance
(EI) benefits in July, virtually unchanged from the previous
month. Compared with July 2011, the number of beneficiaries fell
by 34,900 or 6.4%.  The number of beneficiaries increased in Alberta and Ontario,
while it fell in Prince  Edward Island  and  Quebec . There were no
notable changes in the other provinces.  Claims virtually unchanged in July
To receive EI benefits, individuals must first submit a claim.
The number of claims provides an indication of the number of
people who could become beneficiaries.  Nationally, the number of initial and renewal claims was little
changed at 232,400 in July, following an increase in June.  Provincially, claims rose by 8.9% in Saskatchewan, 8.3% in
Ontario and 3.1% in Alberta, while they fell by 6.6% in  New
Brunswick , 4.4% in Quebec and 3.0% in Newfoundland and Labrador.
There was little change in the other provinces.  The provinces: Number of beneficiaries
After a long-term downward trend, the number of people receiving
regular EI benefits in  Alberta  increased to 25,600 in July, up
2,100 or 8.7% from the previous month.  In Ontario, the number of beneficiaries rose 3.4% to 154,300,
more than offsetting a decline in the previous month.  At the same time, the number of people receiving benefits in
Prince Edward Island declined 5.0% to 8,100. In Quebec, the
number of beneficiaries fell 2.8% to 146,300, the second
consecutive decline in the province. There were no notable
changes in the other provinces.  Note to readers
The change in the number of regular Employment Insurance (EI)
beneficiaries reflects various situations, including people
becoming beneficiaries, people going back to work, and people
exhausting their regular benefits.  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted unless
otherwise specified. For more information on seasonal
adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic
trends.  EI statistics are produced from administrative data sources
provided by Service  Canada  and Human Resources and Skills
Development Canada. These statistics may, from time to time, be
affected by changes to the Employment Insurance Act or
administrative procedures. The number of regular beneficiaries
and the number of claims received for June and July are
preliminary.  The number of beneficiaries is a measure of all people who
received EI benefits from July 15 to 21. This period coincides
with the reference week of the Labour Force Survey (LFS).  EI statistics indicate the number of people who received EI
benefits, and should not be confused with data coming from the
LFS, which provides information on the total number of
unemployed people.  There is always a certain proportion of unemployed people who do
not qualify for benefits. Some unemployed people have not
contributed to the program because they have not worked in the
past 12 months or their employment is not insured. Other
unemployed people have contributed to the program but do not
meet the eligibility criteria, such as workers who left their
job voluntarily or those who did not accumulate enough hours of
work to receive benefits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  