-- Canadian Dollar Falls Most in Eight Weeks on Economic Slowdown
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-09-20T21:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/canadian-dollar-falls-most-in-eight-weeks-on-economic-slowdown.html
Canada ’s currency declined the most
in eight weeks against its U.S. peer as global reports signaled
an economic slowdown, damping demand for higher-risk assets.  The Canadian dollar dropped for a second day as euro-area
services and manufacturing output fell to a 39-month low in
September and  China ’s manufacturing probably contracted for an
11th month. An index of U.S. leading economic indicators slid in
August and manufacturing in the Philadelphia region shrank for a
fifth straight month in September. Canada’s inflation rate in
August from a year earlier is expected to hold steady at 1.3
percent when the Statistics Canada report is released tomorrow.  “Selling pressure has naturally come into the market
place, especially with the risk-off tone” after the Chinese
manufacturing data, Aaron Fennell, a futures specialist at the
 Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s ScotiaMcLeod unit in Toronto, said in a
phone interview. “Hedgers start locking in the Canadian
currency at these prices because we haven’t seen pricing above
par with the  U.S. dollar  for a while.”  The loonie, as the currency is known for the image of the
waterfowl on the C$1 coin, slipped 0.3 percent to 97.69 cents
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after declining as much as
0.7 percent, the most since July 23. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0237.  Oil fell to a six-week low, sliding as much as 1.4 percent
to $90.66 a barrel in  New York , before paring losses to trade
0.1 percent lower. Oil is Canada’s largest export.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  was little changed after
falling as much as 0.8 percent.  Bonds Gain  Canadian  government bonds  advanced for a fourth day, the
longest streak in almost a month, with the yield on the 10-year
benchmark falling three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
to 1.86 percent. The 2.75 security maturing in June 2022 added
22 cents to C$107.89.  Mortgage bonds are maintaining their appeal amid a housing
slump as the Canada Housing Trust sold C$5 billion ($5.1
billion) of five-year bonds yesterday to yield 34 basis points
more than federal benchmarks. Canada Housing Trust is the
financing arm of Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp., a government
mortgage-insurance agency.  The preliminary China purchasing managers’ index reading,
called the Flash PMI, is based on 85 percent to 90 percent of
responses to a survey of more than 420 companies, according to
HSBC. The final number will be released Sept. 29. A figure below
50 would extend the longest run of contraction readings in the
survey’s eight-year history.  Loonie Breach  The Canadian dollar may fall to its lowest level in two
weeks against its U.S. counterpart now that it has broken a key
short-term support level, according to  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,
citing technical indicators.  Canada’s currency has weakened to the upper end of a range
of 97 cents per U.S. dollar and sustained the move, opening it
up for a further loss to 99.02 cents, according to  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at TD Securities. That would
be its weakest level since Sept. 6. TD forecasts that the
Canadian dollar will depreciate to $1.05 by the end of the year,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  “The general flow of news and sentiment continues to
suggest the risk is for dollar-Canada to move a little higher
still,” Osborne said today in a note to clients. The cross is
“liable to remain higher in the short run,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in New York at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  