-- Capital Shopping Joins Europe REITs’ $3.5 Billion Bond Sales
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-09-20T16:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/capital-shopping-joins-europe-reits-3-5-billion-bond-sales-1-.html
Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc (CSCG) ,
the U.K.’s largest specialist mall operator, joined four other
European real estate investment trusts selling bonds this month,
lifting the amount companies raised to almost $3.5 billion.  Capital Shopping sold six-year convertible bonds to raise
300 million pounds ($566 million), the London-based company said
in a statement. British Land Co. and  Hammerson Plc (HMSO)  of the U.K.
and  France ’s  Unibail-Rodamco SE (UL)  and  Klepierre (LI)  SA completed bond
sales.  Large real estate companies are tapping bond markets as an
inexpensive source of funding as banks rein in lending to comply
with new capital regulations. Unibail-Rodamco,  Europe ’s biggest
publicly traded property owner, raised 750 million euros on
Sept. 11 from the sale of convertible bonds paying 0.75 percent
interest.  “There’s a lot of demand from funds wanting convertible
bonds backed by good-quality assets generating stable and solid
cash flows,” said  Robert Duncan , an analyst at Jefferies & Co.
“So the companies are locking in five- or six-year money on
good terms.”  The proceeds of the sales will allow the REITs to refinance
maturing bank loans and fund acquisitions or development
projects. Companies are looking for ways to increase income as
slowing or contracting European economies curb rental growth
prospects, Duncan said.  Convertible Securities  Three of this month’s bond sales by REITs involve
securities convertible into shares. The benchmark index for
European property stocks, the FTSE EPRA/NAREIT Developed Europe
Index, has  climbed 16 percent  this year.  Capital Shopping, which owns malls including the Trafford
Centre in Manchester and Gateshead’s Metrocentre, will pay a
coupon of 2.5 percent. The bonds are convertible to shares at
437.52 pence, or 30 percent above their average price before the
bond sale.  Capital Shopping said it will balance the company’s
increase in borrowing by “actively considering” selling stakes
in its large malls, according to the statement.  The proceeds may help lower the debt ratio to 100 percent
of the company’s equity from about 135 percent following today’s
bond sale, according to Keith Crawford, an analyst at Peel Hunt
with a hold rating on the shares.  This would put the company “more in line with the other
leaders” in the REITs, he said in a note to investors today.  Capital Shopping declined 14.20 pence, or 4.1 percent, to
332.40 pence in  London . That trimmed the company’s market value
to 2.88 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen in London at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  