-- Carney Calls Libya Consulate Assault a ‘Terrorist Attack’
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-09-21T04:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/carney-calls-libya-consulate-attack-a-terrorist-attack-.html
The Obama administration said the
assault on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya, was a
terrorist attack and some of those involved may have links to
al-Qaeda.  “It is self-evident that what happened in Benghazi was a
terrorist attack,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told
reporters traveling yesterday with President  Barack Obama .  The administration has come under criticism from
Republicans who say the U.S. failed to adequately prepare for
the possibility of violence on the anniversary of the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks in the U.S.  Obama, speaking at a forum in  Florida  held by the Spanish-
language network Univision, said the U.S. will continue building
ties in the region following the Arab Spring upheaval.  “The one thing we can’t do is withdraw from the region,”
Obama said. “They still want our leadership and they still look
to us” for assistance in developing democratic governments.  Carney cited congressional testimony by Matthew Olsen,
director of the U.S. National Counterterrorism Center, that the
U.S. is looking at evidence that some of those involved in the
attack, which killed the U.S. ambassador to Libya and three
other U.S. personnel, may have ties to al-Qaeda or affiliated
groups.  Olsen told the Senate Homeland Security Committee on Sept.
19 that militants took advantage of unrest stoked by an amateur
film made in the U.S. denigrating the  Prophet Muhammad .  Initial information from the U.S. investigation is that
“it was an opportunistic attack in which elements including,
possibly, elements of al-Qaeda in the Maghreb, participated,”
Carney said yesterday.  FBI Arriving  FBI officials are due to arrive in Benghazi by today to
work alongside Libyan officials. Prime Minister-elect Mustafa
Abushagur said eight Libyan nationals have been arrested in
connection with the Sept. 11 assault and that several suspects
are being sought after crossing the border into  Egypt .  Abushagur, who was named premier this month, said that
Ansar al-Shariah, an Islamist militia, was one of the groups
thought to be involved. In an interview in his office in Tripoli
yesterday, he vowed that “these crimes will not go
unpunished.”  More than a year after  Muammar Qaddafi  was toppled, Libya
is still mired in political unrest. While the country has a
“very specific” plan on how to secure the nation, the
government currently is unable to force militias that played a
key role in the uprising to disarm, Abushagur said.  “Security is a top priority for the next three to six
months and 70 percent of our efforts are dedicated to
stabilizing Libya,” he said.  ‘Universal Values’  Abushagur spoke a day before planned mass rallies in
Benghazi against the armed groups. Ansar al-Shariah, which
advocates the establishment of an Islamist state in Libya, has
denied involvement in the attack.  “We are very sorry for the deaths of four American
nationals on our soil,” Abushagur said. U.S. Ambassador “Chris Stevens was a great man and cared for our country.”  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  yesterday gave U.S.
lawmakers a classified briefing in Washington on the events of
last week.  Republican Representative Dana Rohrabacher of California, a
member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said afterward
that nothing in the briefing “changed my opinion” that the
assault was planned to coincide with the anniversary of the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.  ‘Blaming’ Video  The Obama administration has “a fundamental
misunderstanding” of the situation in Libya because “they are
still blaming the video” for spawning the attack, Senator  John McCain , an  Arizona  Republican who serves on the Armed Services
Committee, said to reporters after the briefing.  “It’s not the video, it’s the Islamists who are pushing
this video throughout the Internet” to spark demonstrations by
fellow Muslims “so they can eventually take over these
countries,” McCain said.  Clinton also announced yesterday that she is forming an
Accountability Review Board to look into the attack. The review
will be led by veteran diplomat Thomas Pickering, who has served
as U.S. ambassador in Russia, India, Jordan and  Israel .  In an appearance at the State Department, Clinton
reiterated that the U.S. will keep supporting Libya and other
governments in the  Middle East  and North Africa that are
battling extremists.  “We continue to support those who are fighting for
universal values,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in  Coral Gables , Florida, at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  