-- CAW Says It May Give GM Strike Notice in Negotiations
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-09-20T18:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/caw-says-it-may-give-gm-strike-notice-in-negotiations.html
The Canadian Auto Workers may give
24 hours’ strike notice to  General Motors Co. (GM)  as early as today
unless the carmaker adjusts a contract offer, union President
 Ken Lewenza  said.  GM’s offer falls short of a deal reached this week with
 Ford Motor Co. (F) , Lewenza told reporters today at a Toronto hotel
where the union is negotiating with GM and Chrysler Group LLC.
The union leader’s comments came after the CAW earlier said it
was making “gradual progress” with Chrysler.  The Toronto-based union is trying to wrap up accords with
U.S.-based automakers after reaching a tentative four-year labor
agreement Sept. 17 with Ford. The CAW indefinitely extended a
strike deadline with Chrysler and GM while saying it wants any
deal with GM and Chrysler to match the basic terms of the Ford
settlement. Union members at Ford are voting whether to ratify
the deal this weekend.  “General Motors of  Canada  has delivered a proposal to the
CAW that meets pattern on all elements of the Ford agreement,”
Adria MacKenzie, a GM spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The Ford agreement mostly eliminates cost-of-living raises
for workers and retirees. Ford agreed to create about 600 jobs,
including a partial third shift at a vehicle-assembly plant in
Oakville, Ontario, the union said. Workers will get C$2,000
($2,046) lump-sum payments in lieu of raises and a C$3,000
ratification bonus. The  pension plan  won’t be changed to a
401(k)-like defined-contribution plan, the CAW said.  Earlier today, the union said there had movement in the
Chrysler talks.  “Chrysler executives seem to be more willing to reach an
agreement than they were previously,” the union said in a
written update for members. The CAW has said it would not issue
a new strike deadline as long as negotiations made headway.  LouAnn Gosselin, a Chrysler spokeswoman, declined to
comment in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net  