-- Celanese Targets 14 Percent Earnings Growth on Ethanol
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-09-20T20:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/celanese-to-produce-ethanol-from-gas-with-reduced-capital-budget.html
Celanese Corp. (CE) , a chemical maker
that’s developed a process to turn natural gas and coal into
ethanol, expects earnings to rise as it focuses on supplying the
fuel additive to Asian automotive and industrial markets.  Per-share earnings are expected to increase 12 percent to
14 percent a year during the next five years, compared with 10
percent last year, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mark Rohr said today in a presentation in Houston. The Dallas-based
company will expand earnings before interest and taxes to more
than 18 percent of sales, compared with 16 percent last year, he
said.  Ethanol, commonly added to gasoline, also has industrial
uses as an ingredient in acetic acid and other chemicals used to
make products such as paints, deodorants and hand sanitizers.
Celanese plans to annually produce 1 million tons of ethanol
from coal for industrial uses in China by 2016, Chief Financial
Officer Steven M. Sterin said in the presentation. The company
is in talks to enter automotive-fuel markets there and in
 Indonesia , he said.  “These aren’t the only places where there are
opportunities, but they are certainly the ones we are most
excited about, we’ve made the most progress in, we think the
value proposition is the strongest and it represents a
significant growth opportunity,” Sterin said.  Capital Spending  Capital spending  will be about $400 million a year during
the next several years, Rohr said. That’s a 28 percent reduction
from $553 million spent last year, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. Last year’s spending amount included about $200
million of a one-time payment from the German government to
reimburse Celanese for relocating a plant, Mark Oberle, a
company spokesman, said in an interview.  The company is initially targeting the industrial ethanol
market, which is estimated to be about 5 million to 6 million
tons globally and faces less regulatory scrutiny than the motor-
fuel market, said Scott Richardson, general manager of the
acetyls division. The motor-fuel market is estimated to be as
big as 75 million tons globally, he said.  Celanese plans to make 275,000 tons of ethanol from coal a
year in Nanjing,  China , beginning in the third quarter of 2013,
he said.  The shares dropped 1.5 percent to $42.03 at the close in
 New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  