-- Cerberus Supports ‘Potential Capital Actions’ at Bawag
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-09-20T10:32:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/cerberus-supports-potential-capital-actions-at-bawag.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP, the
U.S. private-equity firm led by  Stephen Feinberg , will support
“potential capital actions” at Bawag PSK Bank AG, the Austrian
lender it acquired in 2006.  “Cerberus Capital Management stands behind and continues
to support its investment in Bawag PSK, including potential
capital actions which will enable Bawag to execute successfully
its strategic business plan,” the  New York  City-based firm said
in an e-mailed statement today.  Bawag,  Austria ’s fourth-biggest lender, was bought by a
Cerberus-led group for 3.2 billion euros ($4.1 billion) in 2006
and hasn’t produced returns for its shareholders since. The bank
lost money each year from 2007 to 2009, causing Cerberus to
inject 205 million euros into Bawag in 2009, with Austria
providing an additional 550 million euros of state aid. Under
the aid deal, Bawag isn’t allowed to pay dividends to the equity
holders until this year, and dividends are restricted thereafter
until the state is repaid.  The lender, which already had to be rescued by the
government in 2006 before the purchase by Cerberus, is now
preparing for new capital rules proposed by the Basel Committee
for Banking Supervision. More than a quarter of its core
reserves consist of capital that will be phased out under the
Basel III rules or have to be replaced for other reasons.  Bawag’s core tier 1 capital ratio rose to 8.8 percent at
the end of June, from 7.8 percent a year earlier. That measure
includes the non-voting capital the lender received from the
government. The state capital costs Bawag 9.3 percent interest
annually until next year, and will get increasingly more
expensive starting in 2014.  The bank’s capital also includes hybrid securities no
longer recognized as loss-absorbing under Basel III. Bawag
bought back two-thirds of those securities in March and has said
it will have to replace them with new capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  