-- Chicago Strike Deal Will Cost Many Teachers Their Jobs
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-09-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/chicago-strike-deal-will-cost-many-teachers-their-jobs.html
Chicago’s 30,000 public school
teachers had little time to celebrate their return to class as
attention shifted to how the third-largest U.S. city will pay
for the deal that ended their first strike in a quarter century
-- and how soon some of those educators will lose their jobs.  Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  and the Chicago Public Schools system he
runs face a projected $1 billion deficit next year and the
prospect of scores of school closings. The union peace they
obtained may be short-lived because other pressures -- including
at least $338 million in pension payments due in 2014 -- are
squeezing the budget.  “If you look at the contract language, both sides got
important stuff,” said Linda Lenz, publisher of  Catalyst
Chicago , a newsmagazine that has followed school-improvement
efforts in the city’s schools since 1990. “But paying for this
is going to be hugely painful.”  The three-year contract, with an option for a fourth,
carries an annual cost of $74 million, 43 percent a year less
than the pact signed by the district and the union in 2007,
according to Chicago Public Schools. The $1 billion deficit
doesn’t reflect the deal with the Chicago Teachers Union, said
 Robyn Ziegler , a spokeswoman for the district.  “It was understood that we would have to come back and
amend the budget once we finalized a contract with CTU and knew
what the total net cost of the contract would be,” Ziegler said
in an e-mail. “We now are analyzing our budget in order to
determine what cuts would need to be made in order to fund the
contract.”  Charter Drain  The agreement is only part of a larger financial challenge.
More than 50,000 of the district’s 400,000 students in recent
years have moved to charter schools, diverting state aid tied to
enrollment. Along with unfunded pension liabilities, the
district’s solvency faces mounting threats.  Schools are approaching a “devastating financial
reality,” the Civic Federation, a Chicago-based research
organization that tracks government finances, warned in a July
report. It called for a reduction in benefits for current
employees and retirees to make the system “affordable and
sustainable.”  “This will increase the financial pressure on the district
significantly,” Laurence Msall, the group’s president, said in
an interview after union delegates agreed to suspend the strike
and allow rank-and-file members to vote on the deal. “They have
no reserves set aside. This’ll bring it into sharper focus.”  No Holiday  The spike in annual pension obligations will occur in two
years with the expiration of a legislatively approved reduction
in retirement payments that helped reduce budget pressures on
the district. The Chicago Teachers’ Pension Fund had 60 percent
of the assets needed to meet forecasted obligations, down from
67 percent a year earlier, according to its June 30, 2011,
annual report.  Pension cuts weren’t addressed in the new contract, which
includes an average teacher raise of more than 16 percent over
four years. With the district’s limited ability to increase
property taxes and the end of the pension holiday, the raises
will challenge district officials, said  Richard Ciccarone ,
director of fixed-income research McDonnell Investment
Management LLC in  Oak Brook ,  Illinois .  “That’s a lot of money given their constraints on
revenue,” said Ciccarone. “In this day and age, 4 percent a
year is a pretty healthy increase.”  Nation’s Worst  In 1987, the same year of the last Chicago schools strike,
then-U.S. Education Secretary William Bennett called the city’s
system the worst in the nation and advised parents to send their
children to private schools. Twenty-five years later, the
fallout from the contract and the district’s financial strains
could drive more children into charter or private institutions.  “There is little wiggle room” for trimming costs that
would avoid school closings and teacher layoffs, Lenz said.  Standard & Poor's , which cut the district’s credit rating
last month to A+ from AA-, is “comfortable with the additional
cost” of the new contract and expects the district can
incorporate it into its budget, said John Kenward, an analyst.  “It’s at a size where we don’t think it will result in a
substantial impact on their fund balance,” he said.  In a Sept. 13 report calling the strike a “credit
negative,” Moody’s Investors Service said the district faces
the likelihood of having to increase class sizes and cut
extracurricular programs to pay for the new contract.  Taxes Capped  The Moody’s report said the district’s property-tax levy is
already at the legal maximum, “leaving expenditure reductions
as the likely recourse to offset unbudgeted increases in
salaries in fiscal 2013 and beyond.”  As union members picketed last week, the  Chicago Tribune 
reported that 80 to 120 schools on the city’s west and south
sides were being considered for closing. While Sarah Hamilton,
Emanuel’s spokeswoman, denied the report, the possibility weighs
on teachers.  “We are still protesting school closings arbitrarily,”
Valerie Morris, 51, a special-education teacher at McKay
Elementary School, said in an interview. “And we are still
protesting opening of charters as a way of ‘improving the school
system,’ when statistics are continually proving that they are
actually in many cases doing just as well or worse than many of
us are.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net 
Tim Jones in Chicago at   tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
Darrell Preston in Dallas at   dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 Fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  