-- Chicago-Area Man, 18, Indicted in Attempted-Bombing Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-09-20T22:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/chicago-area-man-18-indicted-in-attempted-bombing-case.html
An Illinois man was indicted for
two terrorism-related crimes arising from a  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation sting operation in which he was given fake
explosives to detonate in downtown  Chicago .  Adel Daoud, who will turn 19 tomorrow, is charged with
attempting to use a weapon of mass destruction -- a crime
punishable by  life imprisonment  -- and attempting to damage or
destroy a building with an explosive. U.S. Magistrate Judge
Arlander Keys in Chicago today denied his request for bail.  In the months leading up to his Sept. 14 arrest, Daoud told
undercover FBI agents he was interested in engaging in Islamic
holy war, or jihad, either in the U.S or overseas, prosecutors
said in announcing his arrest the next day.  “His convictions about the killing of Americans are dead-
set,” Assistant U.S. Attorney William Ridgway told Keys today
as he argued for Daoud’s continued detention.  No date has been set for his arraignment and he has not yet
entered a plea. Daoud is from Hillside, Illinois, 15 miles west
of the city, authorities said.  Daoud used Internet e-mail accounts to obtain and
distribute material, “some of which he purported to author,
relating to violent jihad and the killing of Americans,”
according to a press statement issued by acting Chicago U.S.
Attorney  Gary Shapiro  on Sept. 15.  Fake Bomb  After being contacted by the FBI’s agents, he expressed
interest in carrying out an attack, according to Shapiro. He was
arrested after attempting to detonate a fake car bomb supplied
to him by U.S. agents, prosecutors said.  “Defendant attempted to kill hundreds of people after
months of planning,” during which made a list of potential
targets and conducted his own surveillance, Ridgway said.  Defense lawyer  Thomas A. Durkin  told the judge he agreed
with prosecutors’ assessment that the case was serious.  “The question is who turned this into a serious case? This
kid or the FBI?” Durkin said, adding that his client had been
entrapped by the bureau’s undercover agents.  Durkin argued that Daoud should be released into his
father’s custody, confined to the family home, ordered to
surrender his passport and made to wear an electronic monitoring
device.  ‘Case Stinks’  “This kid couldn’t put a bomb together if his life
depended on it,” the attorney said, calling his client “a
misguided kid.”  “This case stinks,” Durkin said. “What it is is a set-
up.”  Rejecting those arguments, Keys said he saw no conditions
under which Daoud could be released where he wasn’t a danger to
the community.  “The fact is that he wished to do it,” the judge said,
adding there was no indication Daoud’s views had changed since
his apprehension.  The case is U.S. v. Daoud, 1:12-cr-00723, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 