-- Chilean Swap Rates Tumble as Data Show Global Economies Slowing
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-09-20T17:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/chilean-peso-drops-as-copper-falls-on-chinese-factory-decline.html
Chilean  interest-rate swaps  fell
the most in a month after economic reports increased concern
that global growth is slowing after a three-day market holiday.  The two-year swap rate dropped six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 5 percent, matching the central bank’s
 benchmark rate . The five-year swap rate slid seven basis points
to 5.19 percent. The yield on five-year central bank bonds fell
two basis points to 5.36 percent.  Reports today showed manufacturing slowing in Europe and
 China , lower exports from  Japan  and more Americans than forecast
filing jobless claims. Chile’s central bank has held its
benchmark rate steady since January, and prices in the swaps
market indicate traders expect the rate to remain little changed
for the foreseeable future as strong internal demand offsets the
loss of momentum in the global economy.  “The market today is closing the gap with international
asset prices,” said Mauricio Olivares, a trader at Scotiabank
in Santiago. “On Friday, we had stocks up and copper above
$3.80 a pound. Coming back from holiday, stocks are falling and
copper is at $3.76. Also, the swaps market has a cap because the
chance of the central bank raising rates is zero and the
probability of a rate cut, while low, is nevertheless there.”  Copper, which accounts for more than half of Chile’s
exports, fell 1.4 percent today on the Comex in  New York  to
$3.7605 a pound.  The peso, the region’s strongest major currency this year,
climbed 0.1 percent to 470.3 per  U.S. dollar . It earlier
declined to 473.5 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  