-- China’s Biggest Shipowners See Market Slump Continuing for Years
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-20T17:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/china-s-biggest-shipowners-see-market-slump-continuing-for-years.html
China ’s two biggest shipowners said
a market slump may continue for at least two more years as more
vessels enter service and the country’s economic growth slows.  “I fear the future two-to-three years will still remain in
a downtrend,” Wei Jiafu, Chairman of China Ocean Shipping Group
Co., said yesterday at a conference in Xiamen, China. “Many
people don’t have confidence.”  Operators of vessels used to carry commodities, containers
and oil are all contending with a glut and an economic slowdown
that has sapped rates. The  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY) , a benchmark for
commodities-shipment charges, has fallen 60 percent in the past
year, while container lines are cutting Asia-Europe sailings
because of a demand slump.  “In the coming two years, it’s unlikely that the world
shipping sector will bottom out,” said  Xu Lirong , general
manager of China Shipping Group Co., the country’s No. 2
shipping group. Companies should increase cooperation to help
ease the slump, he said.  China Shipping’s listed units China Shipping Container
Lines Co. and  China Shipping Development Co. (1138)  both had losses in
the first half. The container-shipping company has fallen 7.9
percent this year in  Hong Kong  trading, while tanker arm
Development has tumbled 31 percent.  Cosco Group’s main unit  China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919)  fell 4
percent to close at HK$3.12 in Hong Kong yesterday. It’s dropped
18 percent this year.  The unit lost 4.87 billion  yuan  ($773 million) in the six
months ended June, its third half-year loss in a row. Wei, who’s
the unit’s chairman and chief executive officer, has pledged to
waive his salary until the losses end.  Cosco Treasure  Cosco may follow  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , the world’s
largest container-ship operator, by investing in areas outside
of shipping, Wei said at the conference. The group is looking
for “treasure” that would complement its sea-cargo businesses
and strengthen the company, he said. An oil division has
previously helped Maersk withstand losses at its container-
shipping arm, he said.  Container lines have combined operations on Asia-Europe
routes after price wars caused industrywide losses. Still, rates
have fallen close to unprofitable levels because of demand
slump. Shipments plunge 13 percent from a year earlier in July,
according to Kuehne & Nagel International AG, the world’s
biggest organizer of sea-cargo shipments.  Trans-pacific routes have avoided the worst of the slump
because of economic growth in the U.S. and a housing market
rebound. Mediterranean Shipping Co. has this month deployed a
13,800-container vessel on a U.S. route. It will be the largest
ship to serve a port in the country.  Iron Ore  Demand for dry-bulk ships has cooled as China’s economic
slowdown saps imports of commodities. The nation’s coal imports
dropped 0.7 percent from a year earlier in August and by 16
percent from July, according to a report dated Sept. 19 on the
Qinhuangdao Seaborne Coal Market website.  The country may import 672 million tons of  iron ore  this
year compared with an earlier forecast of 699 million tons,
 Australia ’s Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics said this
week. Australia is the biggest exporter of the steelmaking
ingredient and China is the largest buyer.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  