-- China Stocks Fall to Lowest Level Since 2009 on Japan Row, Data
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-09-20T07:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/china-s-stock-index-futures-fall-before-manufacturing-report.html
China ’s stocks slumped, dragging
down the benchmark index to the lowest level since February
2009, after a report on manufacturing signaled a contraction and
escalating tensions with  Japan  threatened trade.  Dongfeng Automobile Co., which makes light trucks in China
with Nissan Motor Co., slumped to the lowest level since
November 2008 as a Japanese auto group said protests over
disputed islands will hurt sales of the nation’s cars in China.
Jiangxi Copper Co. and Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the biggest
copper and aluminum producers, led declines for metal stocks
after a HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics survey showed
factory output may contract for an 11th month in September.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 2.1 percent to 2,024.84
at the close, the most among Asia’s benchmark indexes. The  CSI
300 Index (SHSZ300)  dropped 2.2 percent to 2,195.95, with eight of 10
industry groups losing more than 2 percent. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong  slid
1.3 percent. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  added 1.4 percent.  “There’s concern the islands incident may escalate and
exports may be impacted,” Xu Shengjun, an analyst at Jianghai
Securities Co. in Shanghai, said by phone today. “The economic
data don’t look good. The stock market won’t improve in the near
term with these concerns.”  The Shanghai Composite has fallen 8 percent this year amid
speculation concern the government isn’t loosening monetary
policy or introducing stimulus policies fast enough to counter
the slowdown in the economy. The gauge is valued at 9.3 times
estimated earnings, compared with the 17.5 average since
Bloomberg began compiling the weekly  data  in 2006.  Trade Concerns  The Shanghai index is headed for a fifth week of losses in
six weeks amid concern tensions between China and Japan over
disputed islands risk bilateral trade that has tripled in the
past decade to more than $340 billion. China and Japan are the
world’s second- and third-biggest economies.  The recent plunge in stocks reflects concern about possible
deteriorating trade between China and Japan, Gao Ting, chief
China strategist at UBS Wealth Management, said at a media
briefing in Shanghai today.  “It’s one of the important factors impacting the market
now,” Gao said. “China’s machinery and textile industries may
be affected most as they have a big proportion of their exports
going to Japan.”  Guangzhou Automobile Group Co., which has joint ventures
with Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co., dropped 3.8 percent
to 5.28  yuan , a record low. Dongfeng Automobile retreated 1.8
percent to 2.70 yuan, the lowest close since Nov. 12, 2008.  Flash PMI  China should make all possible preparations in regard to
its territorial dispute with Japan over islands in the  East
China Sea , including for military conflict and “even war,”
Wang Xiaoxuan, director of the Naval Research Institute of the
 People’s Liberation Army , wrote in the  China Daily  today.  China CSSC Holdings Ltd., China’s largest listed
shipbuilder, surged 6.4 percent to 21.10 yuan.  The preliminary reading was 47.8 for a purchasing managers’
index released today by HSBC and Markit Economics. It compares
with the 47.6 final reading last month and if confirmed would
extend the gauge’s longest streak below the expansion-
contraction dividing line of 50 in the survey’s eight-year
history.  The report, called the Flash PMI, suggests Premier  Wen
Jiabao  may need to roll out more stimulus to reduce the risk he
will miss the year’s economic-growth target for the first time
since taking office in 2003. Barclays Plc and Morgan Stanley are
among banks estimating that China’s expansion will cool to 7.5
percent, which would be the weakest pace since 1990.  Coal Producers  Jiangxi Copper declined 3.8 percent to 21.89 yuan, the
biggest drop since July 30. Aluminum Corp. of China slumped 2.8
percent to 4.96 yuan, a record low. Copper futures fell 1.2
percent in London, while tin sank 2.7 percent.  “The recent rally has damped demand on the  spot market  as
more poor manufacturing data showed the economy isn’t turning
better,” Xie Xiaoming, an analyst at Shengda Futures Co., said
from Guangzhou.  China Shenhua Energy Co., the biggest coal producer whose
Hong Kong-listed shares were cut to underperform at Jefferies
Group Inc., slid 2.8 percent to 21.28 yuan, leading a gauge of
energy producers to the  biggest decline  among industry groups.
China’s top coal-producing regions have cut August output as an
economic slowdown and more imports curbed local prices to near
the lowest level in 34 months.  “As far as we are concerned, the market has already
discounted the economic slowdown in China,” Joseph Portelli,
chief investment officer at FMG (Malta) Ltd., said in an
interview yesterday. “The Chinese central bank will do
everything it possibly can to stimulate the Chinese economy
going into this political cycle.”  China Congress  The 18th National Congress of the  Communist Party of China 
will start on Oct. 10, the Hong Kong Economic Journal reported,
citing unidentified people familiar with the situation. Vice
President  Xi Jinping  is expected to succeed President  Hu Jintao 
as head of the party at the congress as part of a once-a-decade
leadership change.  China’s central bank has left benchmark  interest rates 
unchanged since July on concern that inflation is accelerating
even as economic growth drops to a three-year low. Policy makers
have also kept bank reserve requirements at 20 percent since
May, and have allowed money-market rates to surge before the
week-long National Day holiday starting Oct. 1.  Japanese automobile sales in China will be hurt next month
as escalating tensions deter consumers, according to the Japan
Automobile Manufacturers Association. Japanese automakers are
making employee safety in China the top priority and are
monitoring the situation closely, said  Akio Toyoda , president of
Toyota Motor and chairman of the auto association.  Japan Dispute  Volkswagen AG’s luxury Audi unit asked a Chinese dealer to
remove a banner advocating the murder of Japanese people after a
photograph of the sign went viral on the Internet.  The anti-Japan message captured in the photo of the
unidentified dealership doesn’t reflect Audi’s views, said Lu
Minjie, a spokeswoman at FAW-Volkswagen Automotive Co., the
venture that makes Audi-brand cars in China. Audi, which counts
China as its biggest market, asked its dealers to be reasonable
in expressing patriotism, she said.  Japan’s exports fell 5.8 percent in August from a year
earlier, the third straight decline, the  Finance Ministry  said
in Tokyo today. China’s share of Japanese exports doubled over
the decade to 20 percent.  New China Life Insurance Co. slumped 7.2 percent to 22.91
yuan, a record low, after the company’s insurance premium income
Fell 6.1 percent last month.  Officials from the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges
are visiting Europe, Japan and the U.S. to try to attract
investors to their bourses as  China’s economy  slows, the
Financial Times reported, citing three people briefed on the
plan.  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  