-- China and Japan Must Break Out of History’s Trap
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2012-09-20T22:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/china-and-japan-must-break-out-of-history-s-trap.html
This week, demonstrators incensed
by Japan’s purchase of the disputed rocky outcrops known as the
Senkaku Islands filled Chinese cities for the biggest anti-
Japanese protests since 2005.  These mostly young men and women holding pictures of  Mao Zedong  reminded me of Mao’s speech at the  founding  of the
People’s Republic of China in September 1949: the “Chinese
people, comprising  one-quarter  of humanity,” Mao warned, “have
now stood up,” adding that “ours will no longer be a nation
subject to insult and humiliation.”  Fair enough. Mao was speaking after a decade of
devastation, during which a protracted war with marauding
Japanese imperialists was followed by a civil war with the U.S.-
backed Nationalists of Chiang Kai-Shek.  But China also has border issues with  India ,  Indonesia ,
Mongolia, the  Philippines  and  Vietnam , and it fought wars with
two of these countries in the previous half-century. Few
demonstrators ever protest outside their embassies and business
outposts in  China .  Nationalist Myths  So what about the Sino-Japanese relationship periodically
enrages nationalists in both countries? What is this trap of
historical memory and nationalist myth-making in which both
countries find themselves?  Transmitting its Confucian cultures to its neighbors, China
had been Japan’s “teacher” for centuries. In the late 19th
century, however, Japan, bullied out of its long isolation by
the U.S.’s “ black ships ,” abruptly broke free of its stagnant
neighborhood. While the Qing Empire floundered, and foreigners
blithely sliced the Chinese “melon,” the feudal Japanese re-
constituted themselves into a modern nation-state.  The new Japan’s coming-out party, appropriately, was the
defeat of their doddery old tutor China in 1895, and the
annexation of  Taiwan , among other war booty. Soon, many in  Japan 
came to believe that its salvation depended on becoming an
empire on the Western model.  Many Chinese had flocked, or been driven as political
exiles, to Japan to learn the secrets of its awesome new power.
Indeed, China’s political leadership would be drawn from these
men, many of whom came to be alarmed by Japan’s menacing moves.  The “father of the Chinese nation,” Sun Yat-Sen, who
depended on Japanese patrons for much of his life, weighed his
 words  carefully in 1924, in one of his last speeches: “Japan
today has become acquainted with the Western civilization of the
rule of Might, but retains the characteristics of the Oriental
civilization of the rule of Right. Now the question remains
whether Japan will be the hawk of Western civilization of the
rule of Might, or the tower of strength of the Orient. This is
the choice which lies before the people of Japan.”  The militarists who committed Japan to an Asian war of
conquest in the 1930s had already made their choice. In their
fantasy of an Asian lebensraum, the vast territory of China was
there to be conquered and pressed into the service of Japan’s
industrial economy.  In China, slowly rising to its own sense of nationhood,
Japanese viciousness in the 1920s and 1930s erased all previous
images of their neighbor; the idea of Japan as an enemy was the
solid basis of the nationalist mythology -- the fall-and-rise-
of-China narrative -- constructed by the Chinese communists.  Identity Crisis  Japan had its own national identity to reconstruct from
the wreckage of the Second World War. Textbooks in both
countries came to deal in falsehoods: the Japanese ones
whitewash their country’s responsibility for atrocities during
the Second World War and mostly portray Japan as liberators of
 Southeast Asia . Chinese texts, suppressing all of Mao’s
disasters, describe Japanese expansionism as the biggest crime
against humanity.  Protesters in both countries have grown up on these
pernicious histories. And they may point to a hopeless
situation. But it’s important to remember the good relationship
between the two countries, which followed the worst period in
China’s recent history.  In the 1960s, a spectacular recklessness marked Mao’s China
externally as well as internally. Cultural Revolution at home
was accompanied by an attempt at world revolution, as China
fueled communist insurgencies in Burma, Malaysia and  Thailand  --
and even aroused the ire of its only real friend,  North Korea .  But major differences with its Soviet ally provoked Mao to
send overtures to the U.S., and Japan was quick to respond to
President  Richard Nixon ’s groundbreaking visit to China.  Tokyo 
moved to restore relations with China in the early 1970s, even
recognizing the latter’s claims over Japan’s old colony, Taiwan.  The next decade witnessed ever-closer cooperation as China
opened up its economy to foreign trade and investment. The basis
laid then still exists in the form of the large Chinese student
population in Japan.  Indeed, like India and  Pakistan , another of  Asia ’s
historically tainted antagonisms, China and Japan have every
reason to transcend these inherited problems. They need each
other’s markets and products, especially as their  economies  slow
-- Japan is the second biggest  investor  in China after  Hong
Kong . But both remain trapped in a malevolent fantasy of the
other.  Politicians are to be largely blamed for this impasse.
These include elected officials such as Tokyo’s right-wing
Governor Shintaro Ishihara, who provoked the current crisis with
his plan to buy Senkaku Islands, as well as China’s unelected
rulers, who find it expedient to stoke nationalism.  Chinese leaders insist their country’s “rise” is peaceful
and not directed against any country. Yet they rely on
nationalist urges for regular bouts of emotional catharsis for
its discontented urban masses.  Textbooks in both counties will probably not be amended
anytime soon, and the Uniqlo stores in China will face the
threat of unrest for a while. Still, occasional eruptions of
nationalist rage are preferable to military confrontations. And
historical animosities can simmer while commerce goes on,
especially when it depends, as it does in so much of Asia, on
complex supply chains and relays of technologies.  At some point, however, the bigger, more powerful country -
- the one that has “stood up” -- will have to take the risk of
breaking the stalemate with a bold and generous initiative. In
1924, as Sun Yat-Sen pointed out, it was Japan’s turn to choose
what kind of country it wanted to be. It is now China’s
opportunity to show its own rise will indeed be peaceful, and
that it will value Right over Might.  ( Pankaj Mishra  is the author of “From the Ruins of Empire:
The Revolt Against the West and the Remaking of Asia,” and a
Bloomberg View columnist, based in  London  and Mashobra, India.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 