-- Chrysler Halts Output at Detroit Plant After Stabbing
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-09-20T18:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/chrysler-halts-output-at-detroit-plant-after-stabbing.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker
controlled by  Fiat SpA (F) , suspended production at a Detroit plant
that builds sport-utility vehicles after an employee was fatally
stabbed today inside the factory.  Output at the Jefferson North Assembly Plant resumes
tomorrow, Scott Garberding, Chrysler’s senior vice president of
manufacturing, said during a press conference at the factory.
The plant makes  Jeep Grand Cherokee  and Dodge Durango SUVs.  “Chrysler is deeply saddened by the events that occurred
at Jefferson North this morning,” he said. “This is a tragic
incident, and our hearts go out to all the families involved.”  Two hourly workers were involved in a fight inside the
plant at about 7:50 a.m., Garberding said. The stabbed employee
was pronounced dead at the scene, and the second worker left the
building, he said. Chrysler won’t identify the employees and is
working with the Detroit Police Department to investigate the
incident, Garberding said.  The stabbing suspect’s body was found with a gunshot wound
at about 10:30 a.m. in a park about 4 miles (6.4 kilometers)
south of the plant, in what apparently was a suicide, Phillip
Cook, a police spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  First-shift employees were released at about 10 a.m.,
Garberding said. The  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based company has
grief counselors at the plant to support its workers, he said.  Jefferson North was one of four Chrysler factories that
skipped normally scheduled two-week midyear shutdowns earlier in
2012 to meet increased demand. Chief Executive Officer  Sergio
Marchionne  said in April that the plant will add 1,100 jobs and
a third crew of workers in November, pulling ahead plans for
increasing production in early 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  