-- CIA Role in U.S. Drone Strikes Scrutinized by Appeals Court
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-09-20T16:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/cia-role-in-u-s-drone-strikes-scrutinized-by-appeals-court-1-.html
The Central Intelligence Agency
should be ordered to say whether it has documents explaining the
use of unmanned drones to kill individuals in Pakistan and
Yemen, a lawyer for the  American Civil Liberties Union  told a
federal appeals court in  Washington .  The ACLU, in arguments today in Washington, said the CIA’s
refusal to confirm or deny that it has records on the drone
program is unlawful because President  Barack Obama  and Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  have publicly acknowledged the program’s
existence in public interviews.  “We think it’s clear -- and the government now
acknowledges -- that there is a drone program run by the U.S.
government,” Jameel Jaffer, an ACLU lawyer told a three-judge
panel today. “The hard question is what is the CIA’s role and
whether the CIA is actively using drones to carry out targeted
killings.”  The dispute involves a Freedom of Information Act request
by the ACLU seeking records on the legal basis for using
unmanned aerial vehicles to kill human targets, the number of
strikes, the selection of targets, whether the program involves
cooperation with foreign countries, the determination of
possible civilian casualties and the evaluation of completed
strikes.  Public Statements  ACLU sued the CIA after the agency cited a national
security exemption to the disclosure law and said it wouldn’t
confirm or deny whether any records exist. A federal judge
dismissed the lawsuit, ruling that the agency never made an
official statement that it was involved in a drone program.  The three judges questioned Stuart Delery, head of the
 Justice Department ’s civil division, over whether public
statements about the use of drones by Panetta, the former CIA
chief, and other government officials in speeches and the media
eliminates the security exemption reasoning.  “How would acknowledging that the CIA has documents on
drones -- how would that disclose something that would harm
national interests,” U.S. Circuit Judge Merrick Garland asked.  Stating that the CIA has documents relating to ACLU’s
request doesn’t mean the agency would be required to make that
information public, Garland said.  Delery, who told the court that the CIA does have some
drone records, described the public statements made by
government officials as ambiguous.  “It’s not sufficient to constitute precise official
confirmation that the court’s test requires,” Delery said.  The case is American Civil Liberties Union v. Central
Intelligence Agency, 11-5320,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 