-- Citigroup Warns Irish Investors to Plan for Losses
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2012-09-20T10:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/citigroup-warns-irish-investors-to-plan-for-losses-euro-credit.html
As Irish bonds extend their rally,
the gains for investors may be disguising a different story.  The yield on Ireland’s benchmark 2020 bond fell below 5
percent today for the first time since the country’s
international rescue in November 2010. The debt is the second-
best performing in the euro region this year, trailing only
fellow bailout recipient  Portugal .  All of the optimism that Ireland can raise money in the
markets and avoid a debt restructuring is premature as the
nation struggles to emerge from its worst recession in modern
history, said  Michael Saunders , Citigroup Inc.’s head of
European economics in  London .  “Ireland faces an almost impossible task to get back to
fiscal balance,” Saunders said. Visits to the country showed
“life is tough, very tough and not getting that much better
anytime soon,” he said.  Saunders said a slower economic revival may eventually make
Ireland’s debt, which more than tripled during the past five
years, unsustainable. Gross domestic product was unchanged in
the second quarter from the previous three months of the year,
the  Central Statistics Office  in Dublin said today. Analysts had
expected an increase of 0.7 percent. The economy contracted 1.1
percent from the second quarter last year.  ‘Good Student’  Irish  government bonds  with a maturity of at least 10 years
returned 31 percent in the past year, including reinvested
interest, according to indexes tracked by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  After reducing its  budget deficit , the country sold bonds
in July, returning to longer-term credit markets for the first
time in almost two years. Benchmark 2020 bonds rose for a third
day, pushing the yield to 4.99 percent at 11:20 a.m. in London.  “Ireland is still the good student,” said  Alberto Gallo ,
head of European credit research a Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in London. “Ireland is making good progress on reform and
fiscal measures.”  Since 2008, the Irish have made about 25 billion euros,
equal to 16 percent of GDP, of austerity measures, with another
8.6 billion euros to come.  Sustaining the rally depends in part on reigniting growth
after the economy shrank 15 percent since 2008 in the wake of a
collapse of the real-estate market. With the  European debt
crisis , Saunders forecasts gross domestic product will contract
0.6 percent this year and grow by the same amount next year.  Tricky Math  “The key risk is the economy,” Saunders said by telephone
on Sept. 17. “If it doesn’t come right, and I don’t believe it
will, then the math becomes difficult.”  With growth muted, the government is pushing for European
help to lower the cost of its legacy banking debt. Ireland has
pledged or injected 64 billion euros ($83 billion) into the
financial system, making it the world’s costliest banking rescue
since the Great Depression.  “A lot depends on what kind of deal they get on the
banks,” said Saunders, who has been in his post since 2003.
“Will it significantly reduce the debt level? I’m not sure it
will. If they don’t get relief, they are going to find it hard
to fund themselves on a sustained basis at a tolerable yield and
will be looking at some sort of second bailout program.”  Ireland’s debt may peak at 119 percent of GDP in 2013, the
European Commission said on Sept. 18. That’s up from 25 percent
of GDP in 2007.  No Failure  While the Irish government has said the country won’t
default on any debts, it may be that investors have losses, in a
process known as Private Sector Involvement, or PSI, Saunders
said. Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  told lawmakers in June that
defaulting even on bank bonds would be a “disaster and
catastrophe” for the country.  “It would be wrong to see debt restructuring as a failure
of the current government,” Saunders said. “It’s a reflection
of the difficult debt situation it inherited.”  Investors involved in  Greece ’s debt exchange earlier this
year lost 53.5 percent of the face value of their bond holdings,
reducing the country’s debt by about 100 billion euros.  The cost to insure against Ireland reneging on debt
payments using five-year credit-default swaps dropped to 275
basis points yesterday from 580 in June. That implies about a 21
percent probability of the nation failing to meet its
obligations within five years. Spanish debt has a 26 percent
chance of default and  Italy  24 percent, swaps indicate.  ‘Good European’  “The PSI view is out there because people are looking at
the debt dynamics in  Europe  and wondering how do you grow out of
this,” said  Alan McQuaid , an economist at Merrion Stockbrokers
in Dublin. “But Ireland wants the name of being a good
European. It doesn’t want to be seen as not paying back its
debts. The only way I could see it happening would be as a part
of a wider European restructuring of debt, including countries
like Italy, and I don’t see that happening anytime soon.”  Saunders remains skeptical as the government implements
additional spending cuts and tax increases in a bid to narrow
its budget deficit.  “I stress that’s it’s not by lack of effort,” Saunders
said. “It’s just the scale of the overhang and the fact that
Ireland has little ability to stabilize its debt because it’s so
vulnerable to global shocks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  