-- Coeure Sees No Signs of Deflation That Would Justify QE
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-09-20T11:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/coeure-sees-no-signs-of-deflation-that-would-justify-qe.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Benoit Coeure said he doesn’t see any signs of
deflation or a need for quantitative easing, which is different
from the ECB’s new bond-purchase program.  “In the euro area as a region, there are currently no
clear signs of deflation fears that would justify QE,” Coeure
said in a speech in Paris today, according to a text posted on
the ECB’s website. “In addition, the channels of transmission
are different.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  on Sept. 6 unveiled details of
an unlimited bond-purchase program, dubbed Outright Monetary
Transactions, designed to regain control of  interest rates  in
the euro area and fight speculation of a currency breakup.
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann has criticized the plan,
arguing it’s tantamount to financing governments by printing
money, a strategy policy makers in the U.S. and the U.K. have
employed to help their economies.  “QE is meant to ease the general credit conditions which
are considered by the central bank to have become tight in a
situation in which the short-term interest rate cannot be
reduced further,” Coeure said. “OMTs are meant instead to
restore homogeneous credit conditions throughout the euro area,
but not necessarily to ease credit conditions in the
aggregate.”  Aid Request  ECB bond purchases hinge on struggling countries requesting
aid from one of  Europe ’s rescue funds and signing up to
conditions. That makes the OMT a “much better program” than
the previous one, which was terminated earlier this month, ECB
Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said on Sept. 11.  The “strict and effective conditionality” of the ECB’s
new bond-purchase plan preserve the incentives for governments
to implement reforms, Coeure said. “As a consequence, OMTs can
succeed only if action is taken by governments, at national and
at euro-area level, to restore long-term growth and bridge
fiscal and economic imbalances.”  Bond purchases under the new program won’t constitute
monetary financing of governments, create inflation or expose
the ECB to large risks, Coeure said.  “OMTs will be conducive to the monetary authority
restoring its power to control credit conditions in the euro
area and, through that channel, inflation in the medium term,”
he said. “Will OMTs bring large risks to the central bank’s
balance sheet? The answer again is: no.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  