-- Commerzbank’s Blessing Sees More Cooperation With Insurers
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-09-20T09:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/commerzbank-s-blessing-sees-more-cooperation-with-insurers.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second-
biggest bank, sees closer cooperation between banks and insurers
as stricter capital rules make long-term lending less attractive
for banks.  “One cannot exclude higher  capital requirements  in the
future,”  Martin Blessing , chief executive officer of the
Frankfurt-based lender, said at an event in Frankfurt today.
“Nobody knows how much capital a bank needs in 19 years for a
certain loan. Insurers have long-term liabilities and assets and
are better suited for long-term financing.”  Banks face stricter rules, known as Basel III, that are
meant to make the financial system safer by forcing lenders to
hold more capital against certain loans, including those for
shipping, real estate and long-running projects. Commerzbank,
once the world’s third-largest ship lender and biggest European
real estate financier, announced plans in June to exit those
businesses.  Introduction of the tougher capital standards coincides
with  Europe ’s debt crisis, which has led to slower economic
growth and a decline in client trading. The  European Central
Bank  announced plans this month to tackle the crisis with a
program to buy an unlimited amount of short-dated sovereign debt
from countries that seek assistance and agree to conditions.  Not Over  While the ECB’s announcement led to a rally in stocks and a
decline in bond yields in Spain and Italy, the debt crisis by no
means is over, Blessing said. What is needed is further
political integration and fiscal union and that will take time,
he said.  The ECB and the European Stability Mechanism, a fund to
provide assistance to euro area countries in financial
difficulty, have to buy time for politicians to implement those
measures, Blessing said. It will take a long time before cross-
border capital flows reach pre-crisis levels and investors trust
in the survival of the euro, Blessing said.  Commerzbank, unlike German savings banks, supports the idea
of a European banking union. “If a bank is operating in
different countries, it has to work with all kinds of different
regulators, so it would be better to just speak with one
supervisor,” Blessing said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annette Weisbach in  Frankfurt  at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  