-- NCAA Says College Football Concussions Down, More Study Needed
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-09-21T04:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/concussions-in-college-football-down-by-26-ncaa-study-finds.html
Concussions suffered by college
football players in games were 26 percent lower last year than
seven years earlier, according to a study conducted for the
 National Collegiate Athletic Association .  The survey by Indianapolis-based  Datalys Center  showed the
incidence of concussions in all three football divisions was 2.5
per 1,000 players who took the field for a game in the 2011-12
season as compared to 3.4 per 1,000 in 2004-05.  David Klossner, the NCAA’s director of health and safety,
called the findings encouraging and said more data needs to be
gathered over a longer period before firm conclusions can be
drawn.  “Over the past 10 to 15 years we’ve had more awareness, so
you’d speculate you’d see higher incidence than in the past,”
Klossner said in a telephone interview. “But we see a leveling
off, and that’s hopefully a good sign.”  The NCAA has made rules and policy changes since 2002 to
improve player safety. In 2008, it made the horse-collar tackle
illegal, and placed more emphasis on eliminating hits on
defenseless players and blows to the head. Players weren’t
permitted to initiate contact and target an opponent with the
crown of their helmets, and no player was permitted to target a
defenseless opponent above the shoulders.  That same year, the association required a conference
review of fouls related to targeting/initiating contact to
players. If a foul wasn’t called, conferences were allowed to
review plays and impose sanctions.  Sit Down  In 2010, college sports’ governing body required that
injured athletes, including those showing signs of a concussion,
be cleared by medical personnel before returning to competition.
Injured players had to sit out a play.  It also outlawed wedge-blocking formations of three or more
players after research showed that one of every five injuries
occurring on kickoffs resulted in a concussion.  There are 67,887 players on 644 football teams in the three
divisions. The survey didn’t break the data down by division or
team, the NCAA said.  When the study was broadened to include men’s and women’s
soccer, field hockey and volleyball for both games and practice,
the 0.6 concussions rate per 1,000 players was flat during the
same period, according to Datalys figures.  The data depends on schools identifying and then reporting
concussions, Klossner said. Without a scientific study, the NCAA
says, concussions can be missed.  NCAA Grant  The NCAA said in March that it would provide a $400,000
grant to study 1,000 male and female athletes in 11 sports over
a four-year period.  The study, to be conducted at the universities of  Michigan ,
 North Carolina  and California-Los Angeles, will follow athletes
through their careers to understand the effects of contact on
the brain. It will provide the sort of detailed information
about concussion symptoms, treatment and repeat incidence the
NCAA needs to help improve player health, Klossner said.  “Right now, we’re looking at samples of NCAA schools that
are reporting injuries to us through a third party, but it’s a
small sample of schools and it doesn’t look at the care being
provided to those athletes or the interventions being put into
place,” Klossner said. “It’s just getting the incidence of
injuries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  