-- Copper Falls Most in Seven Weeks on China, Japan Reports
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-09-20T17:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/copper-falls-most-in-seven-weeks-on-china-japan-reports.html
Copper futures fell the most in
seven weeks as declines in Chinese manufacturing and Japanese
exports spurred concern that a sagging global economy will curb
metal demand.  A Chinese purchasing managers’ index showed a preliminary
reading of 47.8 in September, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics said today. That would mark the 11th straight month of
readings below 50, indicating contraction. Japanese exports slid
5.8 percent in August from a year earlier, the third decline in
a row.  “There is a real slowdown happening in  China , which is
hammering metal prices in the rest of the world,” Mark Lewon,
the president of Salt Lake City-based scrap recycler Utah Metal
Works Inc., said in an e-mail. “Higher metal prices won’t stay
long, unless there is some improvement in the U.S., European and
Chinese economies.”  Copper futures for December delivery dropped 1.4 percent to
settle at $3.759 a pound at 1:15 p.m. on the Comex in New York,
the biggest decline for a most-active contract since Aug. 2. The
metal jumped 11 percent in the two weeks ended Sept. 14 as
central banks expanded economic stimulus.  China is the world’s biggest copper consumer, followed by
the U.S.,  Germany  and  Japan . Chinese demand will rise 4.2
percent this year, below the prior 5 percent estimate, because
of weaker-than-expected manufacturing, according to China
International Capital Corp.  “At this point, we do not see a compelling physical
backdrop,” analysts at the investment bank including James Luke
said in a report.  Copper stockpiles monitored by the London Metal Exchange
rose 3.7 percent, the most since January 2009. Yesterday, they
dropped to the lowest since October 2008.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months fell 1
percent to $8,270 a metric ton ($3.75 a pound). Zinc, aluminum,
lead and tin also dropped, while nickel rose.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  