-- CFPB to Offer Change on Stay-at-Home Spouse Credit
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-09-20T20:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/cordray-says-cfpb-to-propose-changes-on-credit-for-working-moms.html
The Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau will propose changes to regulations that critics have
charged could bar stay-at-home mothers from obtaining credit
cards, its director,  Richard Cordray , said today.  “We will need to engage in rulemaking. We have made a
determination to proceed,” Cordray said at a hearing of the
House Financial Services Committee.  He said the agency would propose the rule before Congress
reconvenes after the election. It could affect major credit card
issuers such as  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp.   The plans stem from an effect of the Credit Card
Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009, which
governs how card issuers consider applications from non-working
spouses.  The  Federal Reserve , which wrote the first regulations
under the law, stated that a card issuer may not determine a
customer’s ability to repay by relying on income or assets of a
person who is not liable for the debt unless the applicant has
an ownership interest in the other person’s assets or income.  Petition Drive  Members of Congress including Representatives  Carolyn Maloney , a  New York  Democrat, and Shelley Moore Capito, a West
Virginia Republican, have argued the rule could limit the
ability of non-working spouses to get credit. Holly McCall, a
former employee of Capital One and subsequent non-working
spouse,  started a petition  against the rule.  Cordray said he largely agreed with their assessment.  “We have determined that it is a significant problem,”
Cordray said. He added that “tens if not hundreds of
thousands” of Americans have been denied access to credit as a
result of the rule.  Cordray said the bureau concluded a regulation -- rather
than a clarification or change to the law -- was needed after
months of gathering information and data from the credit card
industry. The CFPB solicited public input during a six-month
period ending in June, in which it sought comment on possible
changes to regulations it inherited from other agencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  