-- Cosco Group May Order Supertankers as Oil Imports Rise
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-20T06:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/cosco-group-may-order-supertankers-as-oil-imports-rise.html
China  Ocean Shipping Group Co., the
nation’s biggest ship operator, is considering an order for very
large crude carriers as the country’s economic growth spurs oil
imports.  The plan is at the “ideas and research” stage, Meng Qinglin, managing director of tanker arm Dalian Ocean Shipping
Co., said by text message today. The decision on the order will
depend on factors including the company’s internal resources,
market demand and costs, he said in a separate message.  The state-owned shipping group may order 10 supertankers,
maritime newspaper Lloyd’s List said yesterday, citing an
unidentified person at Cosco Dalian. China, the second-largest
crude consumer after the U.S., has boosted  oil imports  66
percent over the past five years as domestic production has
failed to keep pace with rising demand.  Any order would probably be tied to a long-term charter
contract, so it may not have a big impact on the  spot market ,
where overcapacity has hit rates, said Richard Park, an analyst
at Korea Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul .  “It’s unlikely that Cosco Group’s order will undermine
sentiment because they will use those vessels for China,” he
said. “Still, it would make sense for them to charter vessels
because there is an abundant supply out there.”  VLCC returns have been negative on the benchmark Saudi
Arabia-to-Japan route since July 5, according to data from the
London-based Baltic Exchange. The ships, each able to hold 2
million barrels of crude, are losing $1,437 daily, its data
showed.  Cosco Fleet  Cosco Dalian has 18 tankers on its fleet, of which six are
VLCCs, according to Clarkson data. The company is a closely held
unit of Cosco Group, which is also the parent of Hong Kong-
listed  China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919)   An order would support China’s push to increase domestic
investments as an export slowdown damps economic growth.
Manufacturing may contract for an 11th month in September, based
on the preliminary reading of 47.8 for a purchasing managers’
index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.
Supertankers cost $95 million at the end of August, according to
data from shipbroker  Clarkson Plc. (CKN)   Chinese shipyards’ orders also fell 15 percent in the first
eight months of the year to $8.8 billion, Clarkson data show, as
a glut of dry-bulk ships damps demand.  Chinese ship operators are also in talks on forming a pool
of very large crude carriers, China Shipping Development Co.
Vice Chairman Zhang Guofa said in August. The talks have been
going on for three years and no deal has been reached, he said.  China’s overseas oil purchases averaged 22.5 million tons a
month from January to August, the latest available month of  data 
from China’s General Administration of Customs. China’s own 
production  of crude has grown 9 percent to 17 million tons.  --Alexandra Ho and Kyunghee Park with assistance from Ramsey Al- Rikabi in  Singapore . Editor: Neil Denslow,  Garry Smith   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  