-- Cosmo’s 25-Year Sentence Upheld in $413 Million Swindle
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-09-20T16:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/cosmo-s-25-year-sentence-upheld-in-413-million-swindle.html
Nicholas Cosmo’s 25-year prison
sentence for running a $413 million  Ponzi scheme  was upheld by a
federal appeals court in  New York .  The punishment handed down by U.S. District Judge Denis Hurley in  Central Islip , New York, wasn’t unreasonable, the
appeals court said in a decision today. Cosmo, owner of Agape
World Inc. and Agape Merchant Advance LLC, pleaded guilty in
2010 to fraud charges in connection with a scheme in which he
promised to use investor money to make short-term loans.  Only about $30 million of the investors’ funds were
actually used to make the loans, and victims’ losses totaled
about $195 million, the government said. At the time Cosmo
claimed to have founded Hauppauge, New York-based Agape World,
in 1999, he was finishing a sentence for other financial crimes
in Allenwood Federal Penitentiary in White Deer,  Pennsylvania ,
according to U.S. Bureau of Prisons records.  “The court in imposing sentence on this plea was
considering a multiyear Ponzi scheme, undertaken by a recidivist
offender who began committing the instant crime within months of
finishing his previous fraud sentence,” the appeals court said.
In light of the magnitude of the crime, Cosmo’s sentence wasn’t
an abuse of discretion, the court found.  Defrauded Investors  Cosmo was sentenced in October 2011 on one count of  wire
fraud  and one count of mail fraud, according to the opinion. He
was accused of defrauding thousands of investors in a scheme
that ran from about October 2003 through January 2009.  Prosecutors alleged that Cosmo used some of the money to
pay for limousines, to fund a baseball league and to pay off a
restitution order from his earlier fraud conviction.  Cosmo promised Agape investors that their money would be
used to provide short-term loans to businesses, called bridge
loans, prosecutors alleged. He allegedly claimed that the loans
would be secured by borrowers’ assets and promised returns as
high as 80 percent.  U.S. authorities said Cosmo used recruiters, many of whom
were ex-convicts with records including robbery and heroin
importation, to lure investors. He paid the recruiters
$55 million from money he collected in the scheme, the U.S.
said.  Before starting the Agape scheme, Cosmo was accused of
misappropriating funds while working as a stockbroker at Carle
Place, New York-based Continental Broker Dealer Corp., according
to court records.  He pleaded guilty to a single federal charge of mail fraud
in 1999 and was sentenced to serve 21 months in prison and pay
$177,000 in restitution. He was also ordered to undergo
“extensive gambling therapy” while in prison, according to
court records.  Bruce Bryan, a lawyer for Cosmo, didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment on the appeals court’s ruling.  The case is U.S. v. Cosmo, 11-cv-4506,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Second Circuit ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  