-- Coup Lands Banana Republic in The Gap
-- B y   M e l   a n d   P a t r i c i a   Z i e g l e r
-- 2012-09-20T22:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/coup-lands-banana-republic-in-the-gap.html
Patricia: One day in November 1982,
Don Fisher came to our  San Francisco  store on Polk Street. Tall,
balding, in his late 50s, he shook Mel’s hand and mine. With him
was Maury Gregg, his chief financial officer at The Gap, and Sam
Gerson, his president.  After a few words, they strolled in different directions
around the store. Don looked closely at the clothing, seemed to
read every word on the hangtags, studied the customer fan mail
that papered the dressing-room walls.  He held up a ridiculous-looking pair of blue-and-white
cotton ticking Official Royal Navy swim trunks that fastened
with ties on one side.  “Do people actually wear these?” he asked Randi Hoffman,
our store manager.  “I haven’t actually seen anyone brave enough to come out of
the dressing room in them, but they are selling,” she replied
with confidence, adding, “They are only as ludicrous as the
Falklands War for which they were issued. A piece of history for
six dollars.”  Mel: We went down the block to a restaurant called Henry
Africa’s. Maury started by pumping us with questions. How often
did we turn our merchandise?  “We haven’t calculated it,” I said, “but it seems like
every month or six weeks.”  “What are your gross margins?” he asked.  That one I knew. “More than 80 percent.”  “Oh, come on, you’re lying,” Maury said, attempting to be
good-natured. “That can’t be.”  I shrugged.  “How do you plan your markdowns?”  “Markdowns?” Patricia took this one. “We don’t mark
anything down. If it doesn’t sell, we mark it up.”  Don smiled. I had read about him: A bit of a scrappy start
himself, although considerably better funded (old money San
Francisco). He and his wife, Doris, had opened The Gap’s
original store in 1969 on Ocean Avenue with the idea of selling
blue jeans and records. The name came from “generation gap,” and
his inspiration had been his own difficulty finding jeans to fit
his tall and lanky frame.  By the time we met Don 13 years later, The Gap had grown to
500 stores across the country.  He spoke softly. He was eager to share the story of how he
had licensed  Ralph Lauren ’s western-wear line a few years
earlier. “Unfortunately, we blew it,” he said, “because we got
the sizing all wrong.” It seemed odd that he was telling us
about the failed partnership. He did so in great detail, in an
avuncular style that made conversation with him easy.  Then came his questions, lobbed like court shots. What were
our backgrounds? Had we ever been in retail before? How had we
financed the company so far? More questions about the catalog,
the merchandise, the mailing lists, our sources, the concept,
the customers.  “Khaki is the denim of the ’80s,” I blurted at one point,
not unaware that it was a tasty sound bite a denim-of-the-’60s
man could chew on.  “Your store is so creative,” Don said, more animated now.
“Do you think you’ll be able to keep coming up with new ideas?”  “Ideas are not our problem,” I said.  “What is your problem?”  Patricia told him we needed to manufacture our own line; we
could no longer meet the demand with surplus alone; we needed a
broader line of products to fill out our safari image.  I could almost hear the information settle inside him.
Click. Clunk. To what use would he put the facts, tidbits,
disclosures and ruminations he was vacuuming out of us?  Then, abruptly, he asked, “How much do you want for the
business?”  You’d think we would have at least thought about this
beforehand. We hadn’t, probably because we didn’t believe he
would be interested in buying us. A  New York  Stock Exchange
company buying a renegade company named Banana Republic?  It does pay to go to business school, or at least to get
all the professional help you can find, if you ever consider
making a business deal with a man like Don Fisher. He made an
offer. Not surprisingly, it was for more money than we even
dreamed of, probably because we weren’t dreaming of money.  The story here requires a brief digression: Patricia and I
are children of the 1960s. The social upheaval came in our high-
school and college years, and shattered any plans our parents
had for us of living conventional lives. In our minds, our
futures became all about freedom, the freedom to disengage from
the safe and suffocating middle-class consumer-driven existence.
We were determined to live our own way, and we saw self-
sufficiency as key.  We never saw ourselves in business -- and that includes
even when we were in business. We were an artist and a writer on
an adventure in the wilds of business, and that was it.  And now the guy from The Gap wanted to buy us.  Perhaps our dream of handing Don Fisher the keys and
running off to Ibiza fogged our judgment. If we had somehow
landed on the doorstep of financial independence, wasn’t it
mission accomplished, and time to go off to write and paint?  The negotiations dragged on for four months, leaving us
exhausted, and the company ignored and nearly paralyzed. And
then ...  Don called to say he decided he could not buy the company
unless the two of us stayed on to run it.  “It depends on your ideas and your creativity,” he said.
“I’ll buy it, but only if you two stay with it.”  “We aren’t looking for jobs,” I said.  “That’s not the way to think about it,” he said. “I’ll give
you as much money as you need to grow the business, as long as
it’s profitable. You’ll get a percentage of the profits. You can
do whatever you want.”  “But you will own the company,” I interjected.  “You’ll be operating autonomously. You’ll have total
creative control.”  “Autonomous.”  “Total creative control.”  We were left with two stark choices: Start the whole
process over again with another investor, assuming we could find
one, or sell to Don, sign his five-year contract, and take the
money in dribbles as an “earn-out.”  Oddly, I found myself thinking of how I could remove my
name from the burglar-alarm company so somebody at The Gap could
be the one to meet the 24-hour plate-glass service at the store
at three in the morning.  “Don’t worry,” Patricia said. “We’ll have fun. We’ll have
the money to make the company what we dreamed it could be; and
we can see the world.”  By a vote of one yes and one maybe, The Gap acquired  Banana
Republic  Inc. on Feb. 1, 1983.  (Mel Ziegler and Patricia Ziegler are the founders of
Banana Republic and the Republic of Tea. This is the third in a
series of three excerpts from their new book, “ Wild Company: The
Untold Story of Banana Republic ,” which will be published Oct. 2
by  Simon & Schuster . The opinions expressed are their own. Read
 Part 1  and  Part 2 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  challenges facing Japan’s
leaders  and on why  poverty and inequality  aren’t as bad as you
think; Stephen L. Carter on how Hustler magazine can inform  our
response to Mideast violence ;  Pankaj Mishra  on the tangled roots
of  the Sino-Japanese territorial spat ; William Pesek on  Japan’s
slow tsunami recovery ;  Jonathan Weil  on  banks inflating their
capital ;  Matt Miller  on the  school strike  the U.S. really needs.  To contact the writer of this article:
Mel and Patricia Ziegler at  mel@mzpz.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  