-- Croatian GDP Declines for Third Quarter on Consumption, Exports
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-09-20T09:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/croatian-gdp-declines-for-third-quarter-on-consumption-exports.html
Croatia’s economy contracted for a
third quarter as personal consumption, exports and industrial
production declined amid  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Economic output fell 2.2 percent in the second quarter of
the year from a year earlier, the  statistics office  in Zagreb
said today, more than a preliminary estimate of 2.1 percent
released on Aug. 31. Gross domestic product dropped 1.3 percent
from the three months through March.  “We see a negative trend in all the main categories, such
as consumption, foreign investment and industrial production, as
Europe’s crisis continues and domestic exports, particularly in
the shipping industry, have declined,” Alen Kovac, chief
economist at Erste Banka d.d., a unit of  Austria ’s  Erste Group
Bank AG (EBS) , said by phone before the report.  The Adriatic Sea nation, which is set to become the
European Union’s 28th member in July 2013, is struggling to
revive the economy after three years of recession and
stagnation. Industrial output declined 5.5 percent in August
from a year ago while retail trade contracted 5.1 percent in
July after falling 5.1 percent in June and 7.3 percent in April.  “We expect revenue from tourism to soften the decline in
the third quarter, and predict GDP will contract 1.8 percent for
the year,” Kovac said. “Modest growth” of 0.5 percent to 1
percent is expected for 2013, he said, amid a rebound in foreign
demand and government measures to boost investment.  The government on Aug. 2 reduced the 2012 growth forecast
to stagnation, citing the effect of Europe’s debt crisis. The
eight-month-old Cabinet of Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic  wants
to attract investors with 8 billion kuna ($1.4 billion) from EU
funds and reconstruction banks for infrastructure and energy
projects.  The  World Bank  estimated Croatia’s economy will shrink 1
percent in 2012, while the  central bank  on July 9 revised its
forecast to a 1.6 percent contraction from a 1 percent decline
predicted in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  