-- Currency Market Buying Into Trade-Cost Analysis, Greenwich Says
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-09-20T13:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/currency-market-buying-into-trade-cost-analysis-greenwich-says.html
Trading by investors using
transaction-cost analysis in the foreign-exchange market has
increased this year amid regulatory scrutiny and clients
requesting more transparency, according to Greenwich Associates.  Transaction-cost analysis use on foreign-exchange products
increased to 33 percent this year from 28 percent in 2011,
according to a 69-person survey of global buy-side institutions
conducted by Greenwich. Forty-one percent of institutions with
more than $20 billion in assets use it for foreign-exchange,
Greenwich said. Transaction-cost analysis is the study of trade
prices to determine whether transactions were favorably
arranged, low prices for purchases and high prices for sales.  “Investors and people they work for are going to be
requiring more information on what’s going on with their fund
flows,” Kevin Kozlowski, an analyst at Greenwich, said in a
telephone interview. “As you’ve seen post-2008 financial
crisis, investors have found the need to better understand
what’s going on with their money.”  The Volcker rule, part of the 2010 Dodd-Frank regulatory
overhaul, will limit the risks that deposit-taking banks can
accept. The rule, which hasn’t been finalized, aims to reduce
proprietary trading at banks. Bankers’ trading activities have
also been curtailed by higher  capital requirements  under a new
regulation known as Basel III.  Europe’s Lead  A larger portion of European institutions have adopted
transaction-cost analysis for currency transactions than their
North American counterparts. It is being applied to foreign-
exchange trading by 30 percent of users in  Europe , compared with
22 percent in  North America , according to Greenwich data.  The more active usage in Europe can be partly attributed to
the European Union’s Markets in Financial Instruments Directive,
for which transaction-cost analysis data can be helpful for meet
strict reporting requirements, according to Greenwich.  “In any jurisdiction, there is now a requirement for the
reporting of more information and reporting on a more formal
basis,” Kozlowski said. “People are starting to pay attention
now to get ahead of the curve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  