-- Daimler Forecasts Car-Unit Profit Drop on Europe Decline
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-09-20T12:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/daimler-forecasts-drop-in-second-half-car-division-earnings.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-
largest luxury-vehicle maker, said earnings at its car division
will drop in 2012 as a European auto-market decline hits profit
in the second half.  “The overall environment in Europe is deteriorating, with
more negative developments than expected,” Chief Executive
Officer  Dieter Zetsche  said at a press conference at Daimler
headquarters in Stuttgart,  Germany . “There is also
significantly sharpening competition in China.” Earnings at the
Mercedes-Benz Cars unit in the second six months of 2012 will be
lower than in the first half, he said.  The Mercedes-Benz brand, which ranks third in luxury-car
sales after  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi unit overtook it last year, is
shifting focus to compact models while confronting a shrinking
home market. The profit-decline forecast counters Daimler’s
prediction in July that the cars division would report 2012
operating profit that matched last year’s figures.  The new outlook is “evidently an acknowledgment that the
incentive level is high and therefore the earnings level can’t
be maintained,” said  Albrecht Denninghoff , an analyst at Silvia
Quandt Research in  Frankfurt  who has a neutral rating on the
carmaker’s shares.  Stock Falls  Daimler fell as much as 4 percent to 38.45 euros and was
trading down 2.6 percent at 2:12 p.m. in Frankfurt. That pared
the stock’s gain this year to 15 percent. Shares of  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s biggest maker of luxury cars, fell
2.9 percent to 59.39 euros.  Earnings before interest and taxes at Mercedes-Benz Cars in
2011 totaled 5.2 billion euros ($6.74 billion). Its first-half
operating profit declined 10 percent to 2.57 billion euros.  Zetsche said Mercedes-Benz Cars has already been taking
efficiency measures in response to the market that are being
bundled into a savings drive to be called “Fit for
Leadership.” He didn’t give details. The division includes the
Mercedes-Benz luxury brand and Smart city-car marque.  The European car market  contracted  by 8.5 percent from a
year earlier in August, the ACEA regional trade group said Sept.
18.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , which led the delivery decline, said there
was “heavy” discounting in the region last month.  Among the top three global luxury brands, Audi reported the
biggest growth in Europe with an 8 percent sales gain in August,
followed by a 0.5 percent increase at Mercedes-Benz. BMW’s
namesake unit posted an 11 percent drop in European
registrations.  Chinese Performance  Mercedes-Benz underperformed its competitors in the first
half in China, with an 11 percent increase in deliveries versus
jumps of 38 percent at Audi and 30 percent at Munich-based BMW.  Car-pricing pressure in China is probably hurting earnings
at all three automakers, as well as at Volkswagen’s Porsche
sports-car division, based on executives’ recent comments and
production cutbacks,  Max Warburton , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein Ltd., said today in a note to investors.  “The reality is that the Chinese market has slowed right
down, previously great pricing is tumbling and, perhaps most
worrying, mix is falling,” with decelerating sales of larger
models, Warburton said.  BMW is sticking to a forecast for pretax profit and car
deliveries increasing in 2012, with an automotive Ebit margin of
8 percent to 10 percent,  Mathias Schmidt , a spokesman, said by
phone today. Spokesmen at Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen
weren’t immediately available to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Stuttgart, Germany, at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  