-- Debate Champ Warren Meets Brown in Massachusetts Faceoff
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-09-20T16:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/debate-champ-warren-meets-brown-in-massachusetts-senate-faceoff.html
When Republican Scott Brown and
Democrat Elizabeth Warren debate for the first time today, both
candidates vying to represent  Massachusetts  in the  U.S. Senate 
will hold advantages capable of tipping the race.  Brown’s upset victory in 2010 for the post held by the late
 Ted Kennedy  for almost 47 years was fueled by his debate
performances against Attorney General Martha Coakley, who was
considered a shoo-in before Brown stole the spotlight with his
one-liners and what the  Boston  Globe called “pointed attacks.”  Warren’s rise from academic scholar to Democratic star grew
from her fight to create a federal consumer protection agency
and her success at translating complex political ideology into
succinct campaign themes.  The debate at WBZ-TV in Boston, which begins at 7 p.m.
local time, is the first of four scheduled before Nov. 6, when
voters will determine the outcome of the one of the most closely
watched and expensive races for the Senate, where Democrats are
fighting to hold a majority. A  poll  released yesterday was the
fourth in as many days to show Warren with an advantage after
months that had the two candidates trading leads.  “When you are the incumbent, you have one job, and that is
to explain to people why you deserve re-election,” said Michael
Goldman, who has consulted on campaigns for Democrats since the
1960s. “When you’re the insurgent, you have two jobs: You have
to explain why you’d be good and, more importantly, better than
the person that’s in there.”  Not Mainstream  Seeking to persuade voters to elect him to a first full,
six-year term, Brown, 53, will continue to highlight his
bipartisan record while painting his opponent as a provocateur
who will exacerbate political polarization in Washington.  Warren’s “ideas are out of the mainstream,” said Alleigh
Marre, a spokeswoman for Brown.  For Warren, 63, the forum provides an opportunity to
examine the parts of Brown’s record he doesn’t tout, such as his
support for legislation that would have permitted employers to
strip their health plans of  birth control  on religious or moral
grounds and his vote in favor of subsidies for  oil companies .  She has sought to tie him to the national  Republican Party ,
which is unpopular in Democratic-leaning Massachusetts even as
former Governor  Mitt Romney  tops the ticket. Brown is the only
Republican in the state’s congressional delegation.  ‘Wrong Way’  “ Scott Brown  doesn’t always vote the wrong way, but on
really important issues, he’s stood with the millionaires and
billionaires against the interests of working families here in
Massachusetts,” said Alethea Harney, a spokeswoman for Warren,
who received a boost today when Boston newspapers reported that
Mayor Thomas M. Menino would endorse her.  The race is the first for Warren, who has lectured for
decades as a professor and specialist in consumer bankruptcy,
most recently at  Harvard Law School.  Brown served in the state
senate before his current post and has faced off in at least a
dozen debates since entering public service in the early 1990s.  Warren needs to break down Brown’s image as a friendly,
regular guy while connecting with voters to boost her
likability, which has trailed Brown’s in voter surveys since the
campaign began, said Goldman.  Warren is no stranger to debates. She was 16 and living in
 Oklahoma , where she was born and raised, when she graduated from
high school and attended George  Washington  University on a full
debate scholarship that paid for her room, board, tuition, books
and some spending money.  ‘People’s Seat’  “College debates are about the steady accumulation of
arguments and facts,” said Goldman. “Political debates are
about taking advantage of moments.”  Brown is remembered for one of those moments in his final
debate against Coakley two years ago, after the moderator
referred to the post they were seeking as “Kennedy’s seat.”  “It’s the people’s seat,” Brown shot back.  “That perfectly the captured the mood of the electorate at
that time, and so he’ll have to do something similar,” said
Peter Blute, the deputy chairman of the Massachusetts Republican
Party and a former U.S. representative from the Worcester area.  “This is not about ideological gamesmanship; this is about
Massachusetts interests,” he said. “He’s got to do what he did
against  Martha Coakley  -- establish that he’s on top of the
issues and will fight the right battles on  Capitol Hill  instead
of the ideological battles that cause partisan gridlock.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  