-- Deutsche Bank Agrees to Sell BHF to RHJ for $497 Million
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-09-20T09:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/deutsche-bank-agrees-to-sell-bhf-to-rhj-for-497-million.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  agreed to sell its
BHF-Bank unit to  RHJ International (RHJI)  for 384 million euros ($497
million) after year-long talks on a deal that helps Germany’s
biggest lender meet tougher  capital requirements .  The final price paid by RHJ’s Kleinwort Benson Group is
subject to adjustments, the companies said in separate
statements today. The deal also requires regulatory approval.  Deutsche Bank has sought a buyer for BHF-Bank since
acquiring the wealth manager and investment banking operation
through the purchase of Sal. Oppenheim Group in 2010. Deutsche
Bank formed a unit this month, which plans to cut risk-weighted
assets by 45 billion euros by the end of March with about 8
billion euros of that coming from corporate investments as the
Frankfurt-based company sells assets including BHF-Bank and
 Actavis Group hf .  “We see it positively that Deutsche Bank has finally
reached agreement with Kleinwort Benson on the sale of BHF,”
 Philipp Haessler , an analyst with Equinet Bank AG in Frankfurt
who recommends investors buy Deutsche Bank shares, wrote in a
note today. “The negative profit and loss impact and the
positive capital impact should both be limited.”  Deutsche Bank fell 0.8 percent to 32.64 euros in Frankfurt
trading as of 11:22 a.m. local time. That compares with the 0.7
percent decline in the 38-company Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index. RHJ rose 3.2 percent in Brussels.  Regulatory Hurdle  Previous efforts by Deutsche Bank to sell BHF-Bank have
been opposed by BaFin, the country’s financial markets
regulator. The lender’s plan to sell to  LGT Group (LGT)  last year
failed after the regulator voiced concern about the acquisition
by the bank owned by the family of Liechtenstein’s prince.  Haessler said that while it “cannot be taken for
granted,” he expects the deal to get regulatory approval.  Deutsche Bank said in February that it booked 97 million
euros of expenses related to BHF-Bank. The divestiture follows
Deutsche Bank’s plan, announced in April, to sell Actavis to
 Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)   RHJ, which entered exclusive negotiations with Deutsche
Bank in July last year, said Frankfurt-based BHF-Bank would
complement  Kleinwort Benson ’s services in the U.K., the  Channel
Islands  and Ireland.  Significant Opportunity  Fosun Group, AQTON SE, the investment vehicle of German
entrepreneur Stefan Quandt, entities affiliated with Timothy C. Collins and investment funds managed or sub-advised by  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK)  will help inject capital into Kleinwort Benson, RHJ said.
RHJ will retain a stake of about 60 percent of Kleinwort Benson,
according to the Brussels-based company’s statement.  Kleinwort Benson will acquire about 36 billion euros of
assets under management in the deal, according to the
statements.  “With their client focus on entrepreneurs, corporates and
wealth creators, and strong prospects in their domestic markets,
Kleinwort Benson Group and BHF-BANK are also strategically well-
aligned,” Leonhard Fischer, RHJ’s chief executive officer, said
in the statement. “We therefore see the proposed acquisition as
a significant opportunity to create a strong, client-centric
financial services group.”  RHJ said it will hold a conference call for analysts and
investors at 5 p.m. local time in Brussels today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  