-- Digital Domain May See Six Bidders, Attorney Says
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-09-20T22:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/digital-domain-may-see-six-bidders-attorney-says.html
Digital Domain Media Group Inc. (DDMGQ) ,
the bankrupt special-effects company behind the movies
“Transformers” and “Titanic,” may see as many as six bidders
at the auction that starts tomorrow, a company attorney said.  The company has received two deposits required to
participate in the auction, expects to get two more today and
has been contacted by others interested in bidding, attorney
Robert J. Feinstein said today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Wilmington, Delaware. The opening bid of $15 million will be
made by the so-called stalking horse, a unit of Searchlight
Capital Partners LP.  “We expect a robust auction,” Feinstein said.  Digital Domain, with operations in Florida, California,
Canada, India, China and  Abu Dhabi , filed for bankruptcy last
week with plans to hold an auction for most of its assets,
including an investment in “Ender’s Game,” the science-fiction
movie starring  Harrison Ford  that is scheduled to be released
next year.  The company invested $17 million in the movie, which is
based on the 1985 book by Orson Scott Card about gifted children
who are trained to battle aliens. That investment may be Digital
Domain’s most valuable asset, attorney Josef S. Athanas, who
represents the company making “Ender’s Game,” said in court
today.  Digital Creditor  Feinstein didn’t identify any of the bidders in court
today.  One Digital Domain creditor, Technicolor Creative Services
USA, Inc., may join the auction, Technicolor attorney G. Larry
Engel said in court. OddLot Entertainment LLC, the company
behind “Ender’s Game,” probably won’t bid for Digital Domain,
although it hasn’t made a final decision, Athanas said.  Digital Domain blamed its bankruptcy on a cash crisis that
hit less than a year after the company went public. The  Port St.
Lucie , Florida-based company, with 765 employees, said it also
sought court protection in Canada.  The company, which counted former Miami Dolphins football
star  Dan Marino  among its investors, had assets of $205 million
and debt of $214 million as of June, according to Chapter 11
papers.  The case is In re Digital Domain Media Group Inc.,
12-12568, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  