-- Duke Chief Answers Critics After Coup at Biggest Utility
-- B y   P a u l   M   B a r r e t t
-- 2012-09-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/duke-chief-answers-critics-after-coup-at-biggest-utility.html
Jim Rogers is sitting in his sleek,
modern office on the 48th floor of the Duke Energy Center in
 Charlotte , North Carolina, explaining how, after a merger capped
off by an 11th-hour management coup, he remains chief executive
officer of the largest electric utility in the U.S. He wonders
aloud whether to enliven the account with a metaphor about
soured romance.  His public-relations man,  Tom Williams , vetoes the idea.
Rogers ignores him. “When you negotiate a deal,” he says,
“it’s like dating, OK? When you go through the integration and
planning process, it’s like living together. You’re not quite
married, but you’re living together, and you’re learning a hell
of a lot about each other,” Bloomberg Businessweek reports in
its Sept. 24 issue.  On July 2, at 4:02 p.m., just after the market closed,  Duke
Energy Corp. (DUK) ’s board of directors gave final approval for the
acquisition of Progress Energy Inc., its cross-state rival.
Progress’s CEO, the 6-foot-5 William Johnson, a defensive
lineman in his Penn State days, was supposed to become head of
the combined company. Under the merger terms, Rogers was
scheduled to assume the role of executive chairman, a step
toward retirement.  At 4:30 p.m. the Duke board elected Johnson CEO. Then,
after Johnson left to celebrate, the board took another vote and
ousted him. He served as CEO for two hours, give or take a few
minutes. The Duke  board  awarded him an exit package of $45
million in deferred compensation, severance, and other benefits.
To finish an eventful afternoon, the Duke board reinstalled
Rogers in the top job.  Wedding Day  Those caught unaware by Johnson’s stealth firing included
investors, utility regulators, and some 29,000 employees of the
combined company. That was unfortunate, Rogers said. Still,
“when the day came to get married, our board reached a decision
that he was not the right person to lead the company. I think it
was that simple.”  Whatever it was, it was not “simple.” Johnson and other
former Progress directors and executives allege that Rogers
suckered the smaller company into a merger based partly on a
false promise to put Johnson in charge.  “This is the most blatant example of corporate deceit that
I have witnessed during a long career on  Wall Street  and as a
director of 10 publicly traded companies,” former Progress
director John Mullin III wrote in a July 5 letter to the Wall
Street Journal.  “I couldn’t believe it,” Marie McKee, another former
Progress director, said during sworn testimony. “I didn’t know
whether to cry or throw up.”  Regulatory Probe  Equally disgusted were some members of the  North Carolina 
Utilities Commission, a body that, like Progress, is based in
the state capital of Raleigh, where Johnson is a respected
business leader. The commission approved the acquisition on the
premise that Johnson would lead the new Duke, a Leviathan with
$106 billion in assets and 7.1 million retail customers in six
states in the Southeast and Midwest.  Now the panel is conducting a formal investigation into
whether it was misled. The probe has raised the possibility that
at least some commissioners may hold Duke to a tougher standard
in future rate cases. Citing increased regulatory risk,  Standard
& Poor’s  cut the  company’s credit rating  from A- to BBB+ with a
“negative outlook.” S&P’s anxiety, in turn, spurred a separate
investigation by the North Carolina attorney general.  Utility Career  Rogers, 65, finds himself at the pinnacle of an
extraordinary 24-year career as a utility CEO and at the same
time under a cloud of mistrust that, if not dispersed, may taint
his legacy and inhibit the post-merger success of the combined
Duke.  In public hearings, the utility commission has signaled
that it might seek Rogers’s resignation and a revamp of Duke’s
board and top management. That would be an aggressive move for
regulators whose statutory bailiwick is approving rate increases
and protecting consumers. The Duke board may balk at such
demands and private talks are under way.  If any executive is capable of extricating himself from
this predicament, it’s Rogers, who would have been comfortable
charming Southern juries if he had decided to become a
plaintiffs’ lawyer. He has a gleaming smile and knows how to
finesse a sticky situation.  Repeatedly over the years, he has broken ranks with his
industry to endorse stronger environmental regulation, even as
his companies have continued to burn sooty, carbon-emitting
coal.  Whether he can mollify his current antagonists and get the
country’s biggest power producer back to ordinary business will
help determine the future direction of the U.S. utility industry
and the debate over global warming.  ‘CEO Statesman’  The passion surrounding the Duke debacle makes more sense
if one understands Rogers’s reputation in the industry and how
his personality fits into the insular politics of his adopted
home state.  Never accused of modesty, Rogers refers to himself as a
“CEO statesman.” He attends policy-networking symposia at the
 Aspen Institute  and Davos. A registered Democrat, he co-chaired
the Charlotte host committee for the recent Democratic
convention.  In a short speech to delegates, he spoke about improving
the world for his eight grandchildren: “We need to invest
heavily in new zero-emission power sources like new nuclear,
wind, and solar projects, as well as new technologies like
electric vehicles.”  ‘Public Relations’  His detractors describe Rogers as a slippery self-promoter.  “I’d like to believe him when he says nice things about
building a bridge to a cleaner energy future,” says Jim Warren,
executive director of  North Carolina Waste Awareness and
Reduction Network , a nonprofit in Durham. “With all the dirty
coal he burns, I have to conclude that he’s more concerned about
public relations and image than anything else.”  The executive switch after the takeover “looks like part
of the pattern we’ve seen from Rogers for a long time: Progress
and the utility commission got taken so Rogers could get his
merger,” Warren said.  Rogers, who retains the drawl of his  Kentucky  youth,
attended college and law school at the  University of Kentucky 
while working nights as a reporter for the Lexington Herald-
Leader. By the time he graduated, he and his wife had three
children.  After a stint as a consumer advocate in the Kentucky
attorney general’s office, he moved to  Washington , where he
worked as deputy general counsel at the  Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission  and then became a partner at the Akin Gump
Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP law firm.  Lead the Parade  Democratic power broker Robert Strauss gave him shrewd
advice: “When you see a parade form on an issue in Washington,
you have two choices. You can throw your body in front of it and
let them walk over you, or you can jump in front of the parade
and pretend it’s yours.”  In 1988, after a stop as a pipeline executive at pre-
scandal Enron Corp., Rogers made a precocious leap into the CEO
ranks. Public Service Indiana, a coal-burning utility on the
brink of bankruptcy, decided to take a risk on the smooth-
talking 40-year-old.  He got PSI’s books in order and applied Strauss’s parade
strategy to acid rain. Almost alone in his industry, Rogers
publicly committed to lessening sulfur dioxide pollution by
means of “cap and trade.”  Cap and Trade  In 1990, environmentalists pushed Congress and the George
H.W. Bush administration to approve legislation that put a
declining cap on emissions causing acid rain and smog.  Rogers supported the law because it also created tradable
sulfur allowances for coal-burning utilities. If the companies
cut their own emissions, they could sell allowances to dirtier
rivals.  The incentives worked: Air pollution decreased during the
1990s, while PSI and others improved their bottom lines. Rogers
earned the respect of his shareholders and also of some green
activists.  “When we’re trying to move the needle on environmental
issues, we need voices beyond the environmental community,”
says  Fred Krupp , president of the Environmental Defense Fund, a
New York-based nonprofit that led the drive for cap and trade.
“Jim has been a leading voice in the business community.”  While the federal government ratcheted up environmental
regulation, it simultaneously encouraged competition by creating
cross-state wholesale markets in electricity. The historically
fragmented utility industry began to consolidate, as ambitious
CEOs expanded their balance sheets by acquiring rivals.  Engineering Mergers  Rogers helped engineer the combination of PSI and
Cincinnati Gas & Electric. Even though his smaller company was
subsumed, Rogers emerged as the CEO of what became known as
Cinergy. He repeated the exercise in 2005, when the larger Duke
Energy acquired Cinergy; once again, Rogers was named CEO.  This was more than empire building, Rogers says. He was
also diversifying away from coal. He sensed that coal would face
renewed regulatory attention, not only because of terrestrial
pollution but also because it contains so much carbon, which,
when burned, forms carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas that traps
the sun’s heat in the atmosphere.  A year after taking over, Rogers rattled some members of
Duke’s board by announcing that the utility would join the
nascent campaign for cap-and-trade legislation, the carbon
analogue to the successful acid-rain program.  ‘Regulate Us’  Krupp, who helped assemble a coalition of green groups and
major corporations, said “We needed a coal-fired utility CEO.”
Someone “who would say, ‘Regulate us. We can reduce carbon, and
we should reduce carbon.’ ” Rogers “was the obvious choice,”
he said.  For his part, Rogers saw carbon cap and trade as an
opportunity to get credit for closing inefficient  coal-burning 
plants he wanted to shut anyway. He never became a full-fledged
greenie.  In 2007, Rogers lost a U.S. Supreme Court case to Krupp,
9-0. The case against Duke gave the Environmental Protection
Agency greater latitude to oversee coal utility renovations.
“I’m quite comfortable talking to folks who are suing me,”
Rogers told Krupp. “If I weren’t, I’d be a lonely guy.”  Climate legislation passed the House in 2009. Duke quit the
 National Association of Manufacturers  that year because the
group opposed cap and trade. In 2010, NAM had its revenge as the
carbon bill stalled in the Senate, a victim of mounting
Republican opposition inspired by the Tea Party movement.  Calling Johnson  Rogers took the defeat in stride, turning his full
attention to Duke’s growth-and-diversification agenda. He heard
from advisers that Progress was struggling and might be amenable
to an acquisition. In July 2010, he picked up the phone and
called  Bill Johnson .  Like Rogers, Johnson began his career as an energy lawyer
before working his way up at Progress, itself the product of
several mergers.  Understated where Rogers is effusive, Johnson was open to
the Duke overture. Progress would benefit from combining with a
financially stronger partner. By his own admission, Progress was
carrying too much debt and its nuclear fleet had nagging
problems.  One unit, Crystal River 3 in Citrus County,  Florida , had
been out of service since October 2009 with a crack in its 42-
inch-thick (107 centimeters) containment wall. Johnson accepted
an invitation to lunch at Rogers’s home in Charlotte, and the
Duke board invited him to its November 2010 meeting.  ‘Being Taught’  The substance of Johnson’s board session went well enough.
The combined company would make about 30 percent of its
electricity from coal, 30 percent from gas, and 30 percent from
nuclear, with the balance coming from hydropower, wind and
solar.  On a personal level, Johnson struck some Duke board members
as standoffish, according to Ann Maynard Gray, the lead
director. In particular, she recalled that he said at one point:
“I am always ready to learn, although I do not always like
being taught.”  The expression, not the most obvious comment to make to
one’s potential bosses, is attributed to  Winston Churchill .
Gray, a former president of Capital Cities/ABC’s Diversified
Publishing Group, didn’t get the reference. She later testified
that Johnson’s quip “stayed with our board,” and not in a good
way.  ‘Arm Wrestle’  On Jan. 10, 2011, the companies jointly announced Duke’s
plan to acquire Progress. Duke agreed to pay $13.7 billion in
stock to Progress shareholders, a modest 5 percent premium over
the market’s valuation of the target company. Duke also said it
would assume $12.2 billion of Progress debt.  During a teleconference with Wall Street analysts, Rogers
was asked how, as executive chairman, he would resolve potential
disputes with Johnson. “We’re going to arm wrestle,” Rogers
said, “and you know how big Bill is, and you know the outcome
of that.  ‘‘I would basically say that Bill is going to be CEO, and
he is going to be making the calls,’’ Rogers said.  Employees from the merging companies began the process of
seeking approval from state commissions, federal regulators and
other government bodies. They also initiated the integration of
workforces, not least the consolidation of Progress’s Raleigh
staff into Duke’s Charlotte operation.  Trimming Jobs  Raleigh, a sleepy city with a small-town feel, would lose
its sole Fortune 500 company headquarters. Despite some
contraction since the financial crisis of 2008, Charlotte
epitomizes the economic dynamism of the New South. Eight
companies on the Fortune list, including Duke, Bank of America
Corp., and steelmakers Nucor Corp., have their headquarters in
the city and its environs. Duke and Progress set about trimming
more than 1,800 jobs.  Beyond the routine friction over who would head which
department and get the corner office, problems soon surfaced.
Crystal River 3 in Florida developed a second containment-wall
crack. Johnson wanted to make repairs that, according to public
disclosures, would cost more than $1 billion.  It wasn’t clear whether insurance would cover the fix, and
the Duke board asked him to hold off. Johnson, according to
director Gray, displayed ‘‘a significant prejudice for Crystal
River to be repaired,” rather than being open to the argument
that perhaps the damaged facility should be closed.  ‘Pencils Down’  In December, federal regulators rejected the companies’
proposal for “mitigating” their increased market power. This
unexpected obstacle raised doubts about whether the acquisition
would be completed.  Indeed, Johnson would later recount that Rogers told him,
“We’re going to put our pencils down” on integration planning
until the regulatory puzzle was solved. This frustrated Johnson,
who testified that he felt more urgency about finishing the deal
than Rogers.  Just weeks after the rejection from the FERC, Rogers sat
for an interview with the  Charlotte Business Journal . Explaining
the thin 5 percent premium he had negotiated, Rogers said, “I
effectively gave up the CEO job to pay a lower premium.”  Asked about this assertion, Rogers testified that he stood
by it: He sacrificed his executive power to get the best deal.  The converse of Rogers’s account, though, implies that
Johnson and his board sold Progress at a discount so he would
get named CEO. That’s not how Johnson saw the deal. He thought
he got the promotion on his merits, not as a way to sweeten the
acquisition for the other company’s investors.  Selling ‘Cheap’  Johnson was “furious” over the Rogers interview, he later
testified. “For the next month after that,” he said,
“everywhere I went in the company, employees would say to me,
with a very jaundiced eye, ‘Did you do that? Did you sell the
company cheap so you could be the CEO?’”  Johnson’s lawyer didn’t respond to requests for an
interview with the ex-CEO.  Relations between the Duke and Progress management teams
“really started to go downhill over the next four or five
months,” Johnson said. “The tensions between the teams were
very high. The relationship between Mr. Rogers and I
deteriorated. I believe some intemperate things were said.
Tempers flared.”  FERC eventually gave its approval for the merger, as did
the North Carolina Utilities Commission and other regulators.
The closing was scheduled for July 2. That morning, Johnson took
an early flight from Raleigh to Charlotte. He wore a new tie his
wife had given him for the big day. The week before, he had been
house hunting in Charlotte.  Board Meeting  Rogers greeted Johnson on the 47th floor of the Duke Energy
Center, whose spacious offices are decorated in calming shades
of aqua and sea green. After some pleasantries, Rogers reminded
his heir apparent that they had to get to the 4:30 p.m. board
meeting. “You can’t be late for your election,” he said.  The two executives repaired to a small office with a round
white marble table for a conference call with Duke’s directors.
It might have seemed strange that the board didn’t assemble in
the flesh for such a momentous event. No one discussed that.  The vote making Johnson CEO took only a few minutes. Rogers
shook Johnson’s hand and departed. Johnson headed for the
elevators. At that moment, his BlackBerry buzzed with an e-mail
from Gray. She had something to discuss in person.  Directors Vote  If Gray was in Charlotte, Johnson wondered, why had she not
joined Rogers and him for the board vote? She soon arrived, an
outside lawyer in tow, to provide the answer.  After Rogers and Johnson left the teleconference, the board
had remained on the call and gone into executive session. Gray
abruptly made a motion to demand Johnson’s resignation and put
Rogers back in charge of the enlarged Duke.  The terms of the acquisition had given Duke a majority of
the board slots. Prepped in advance for Johnson’s
defenestration, all nine other legacy Duke directors endorsed
Gray’s motion.  One of the nine, Michael Browning, a real estate developer
from Indianapolis, testified that a confluence of factors,
including the nuclear plant and Johnson’s apparent reluctance to
share certain financial information, caused a “loss of
confidence in Bill’s ability to lead the team. For me, the
toothpaste was out of the tube, and I couldn’t figure out how to
get it back in.”  Five directors who had come over from Progress could do
nothing more than express their dismay and cast dissenting
votes.  ‘Grim Flight’  All Gray would tell Johnson when she delivered the news was
that his “leadership style” wasn’t right for Duke. She said
there was no room for discussion. The board had absolute
authority to do this. As a former corporate lawyer, Johnson knew
that on this last point, Gray was correct.  It was, he later said, a “pretty grim flight” back to
Raleigh. He called his wife as soon as he got off the plane.
“Before I could say I’d been fired, she congratulated me.”  “One of the greatest corporate hijackings in U.S. business
history” is what John Mullin, the former Progress director,
called it in his letter to the Wall Street Journal.        “I
do not believe that a single director of Progress would have
voted for this transaction as structured with the knowledge that
the CEO of Duke,  Jim Rogers , would remain as the CEO of the
combined company,” he wrote.  Interrogating Rogers  Beyond personal loyalty, Mullin said his board believed it
was Johnson who possessed the skills needed to “lead the
combined companies to achieve the potential synergistic benefits
of the combination.”  Five days later, the North Carolina Utilities Commission
convened hearings to find out, as Chairman Edward Finley Jr. put
it, why “Johnson’s ‘resignation’ occurred within hours of the
close of the transaction and what ramifications or repercussions
might result from these unanticipated events with respect to
this commission’s continued jurisdiction over Duke.”  When it interrogated Rogers on July 10, the panel’s six
members seemed most concerned about two issues: why they were
not informed beforehand of the CEO switch and what the episode
said about Duke’s commitment to Raleigh, where the commission is
based and Johnson is a pillar of the business establishment.
“Raleigh is really important to us,” Commissioner ToNola
Brown-Bland told Rogers at one point. “It’s our capital.” She
said she feared “a great sucking sound of jobs leaving this
area.”  ‘Sucking Sound’  “There will not be a sucking sound with respect to jobs
leaving here,” Rogers said. Some employees would remain in
Raleigh. As for the surprise factor, he added: “I wish we could
have given the commission prior notice, but corporate decisions
are announced when they are made, not when they are being
contemplated.”  Duke was contractually obliged to close the merger and
appoint Johnson. “It was only after the merger closed that the
board had the authority to make the decision about Mr. Johnson’s
continuation as CEO,” Rogers said.  Rogers enumerated the bill of particulars against Johnson.
The Duke board felt he showed “a lack of transparency” about
the reliability of the Progress nuclear facilities, a concern
that went beyond Crystal River to include three other plants
that Rogers said were functioning but on the federal regulator’s
“watch list.”  ‘Autocratic’ Style  Progress’s financial performance had deteriorated during
the 18 months after the acquisition was announced. And Johnson
displayed an “autocratic” style, Rogers asserted, which
“discouraged different points of view.”  When it was Johnson’s turn to testify nine days later, the
commission was largely sympathetic. On the question of
“transparency,” Chairman Finley asked rhetorically why Johnson
had “a duty to inform the Duke board of the steps you were
taking with respect to Crystal River 3,” when in the spring of
2012, Rogers and the Duke board were contemplating his ouster,
“and neither you nor the Progress board was informed.”  Johnson responded: “I did not fail to inform anybody about
anything.”  On the notion of his being autocratic, Johnson invoked
geography and personal history: “I’ve lived in Raleigh 30
years. I’ve worked here 30 years. People who know me know this
isn’t true.”  To the contrary, he said, his senior management would say
my real shortcoming is “I was too democratic. I would dither
over issues.”  Missed Earnings  Johnson said the company missed earnings projections in
2011 and 2012. “Progress had three back-to-back nuclear
outages” during the first six months of this year, leading to
unanticipated expenses of $160 million, he said.  Duke’s leadership experienced “buyer’s remorse,” Johnson
said. “They wanted the merger, then they didn’t want it, then
they couldn’t get out of it, and they didn’t want to be stuck
with me as the person who dragged them into it.”  Finley wanted to know whether Johnson considered his firing
to have been compliant with the merger agreement or “a sham.”
Duke followed the letter of the contract, Johnson said. “The
condition was they would make me CEO. The expectation was that
it would be more than 20 minutes or two hours.”  Two months later, Rogers takes time out of a busy day to
muse about how a big part of his job is “storytelling.” He’s
sitting in the office that Johnson assumed he would have moved
into by now.  Changing Narratives  “Life is about making stuff up as you go,” Rogers said.
“You’re constantly taking a story line, changing the narrative,
looking at it from all different perspectives.”  While there were periods of doubt about completing the
merger, now he’s confident the combination makes sense for
customers, investors and the environment.  Out of Duke’s domestic production of 57,000 megawatts, it’s
in the process of retiring 5,000 megawatts of older coal
capacity. It’s opening new gas plants to take advantage of low
fuel prices.  Burning gas releases about 50 percent less carbon dioxide
than coal. Duke will get all the legacy Progress nukes off the
watch list and fully up to code, Rogers said. It will make a
call on Crystal River 3.  Rogers’s dim view of Johnson’s financial stewardship was
reinforced on Aug. 2, when Progress and Duke released their
final quarterly earnings as separate companies. For the second
quarter of 2012, Duke’s net income rose 2.1 percent, to $444
million.  Joint Dispatch  Progress, in part because of its continuing nuclear woes,
saw a gaping 64 percent decline in profits, to $63 million.
Since the merger, the company’s stock is down 7.7 percent, to
$63.43.  Across the street in another Duke building, employees drawn
from both companies are dispatching electricity among Progress
and Duke facilities, depending on consumer demand, the weather,
and other factors.  This new collaboration is part of a program that Duke said
will save customers $650 million over five years by using the
enlarged fleet of plants to keep the most efficient facilities
online and burning the least expensive fuel available at any
given hour. The new colleagues staring at computer arrays and
sending streams of instant messages appear to be working in a
collegial fashion under the supervision of a former Progress
manager.  Without a government-mandated cap-and-trade program, or
some alternative for putting a price on carbon, such as a tax,
Duke’s leadership on the climate front will be limited to what
it does unilaterally.  Alternative Energy  Rogers is no altruist. He will continue to expand the
company’s renewable operations, but only those that make a
profit.  By the end of this year, Duke will produce 2,000 megawatts
of wind and solar power, almost all of which it sells to other
utilities. That’s 3.5 percent of its total. Five years ago, the
company had almost zero wind and solar capacity. Whether one
sees this as adequate progress -- Rogers does -- depends a lot
on personal perspective.  As for the company’s corporate governance, Rogers says,
what might seem to have been a CEO-succession fiasco this summer
will one day be viewed positively. “It actually reflects a
strong board that made a tough decision,” he said.  “A subset of people think I engineered this,” Rogers
said. “I wish I was that good.”  To demonstrate that he truly intended to step away from the
fray, he notes that before events took a weird turn, his old
board held a retirement dinner and gave him an antique chess set
as a going-away gift.  He’s not retiring anytime soon, he says, and no, he doesn’t
plan to return the chess set.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Barrett in  New York  at 
 pbarrett17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  