-- Dun & Bradstreet Rates Serbia High Risk as Economy Weakens
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-09-20T11:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/dun-bradstreet-rates-serbia-high-risk-as-economy-weakens.html
Dun & Bradstreet (DNB)  Corp. lowered
 Serbia ’s rating to the level of high-risk countries on evidence
the economy weakened, the state deficit widened and no progress
has been made toward European Union entry.  Slowing growth and increased spending pushed the seven-
month fiscal gap to 111.2 billion dinars ($1.25 billion) and
raised public debt to 57 percent of economic output, compared
with a 45 percent legal cap. Dun & Bradstreet, which assesses
business risk, moved Serbia from the moderate-risk group, saying
it’s not likely the government will make significant spending
cuts.  “On the contrary, the new government is refusing to cut
public wages and pensions for political reasons,” the company
said in an e-mailed statement today. “If the government fails
to ensure a loan from the  International Monetary Fund , the
National Bank of Serbia will have to help the government with a
policy change,  currency devaluation  and higher inflation, which
will affect the country’s macroeconomic stability.”  Serbia’s path to the EU stalled after the new government of
Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic  exerted undue control over the
central bank, causing a mass resignation, and talks on the
future of Kosovo, Serbia’s breakaway province that unilaterally
declared independence in 2008, drag on.  The rating downgrade puts Serbia in a group of other high-
risk countries including Greece, Russia,  Azerbaijan , Georgia,
Kazakhstan and Ukraine, leaving Bosnia-Herzegovina as the only
former Yugoslav republic rated worse than Serbia.  The European Commission is expected to issue a
“conditional” progress report on Serbia in October, postponing
rewards that would have arrived for progress the country has
made so far, including access to financial assistance and EU
markets, Dun & Bradstreet said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  