-- EBRD Studies Loan for Romanian Wind Farm Sought by ERG, Lukoil
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-09-20T16:31:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/ebrd-studies-loan-for-romanian-wind-farm-sought-by-erg-lukoil.html
The European Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development  is considering a loan for a
Romanian wind farm being bought by a joint venture between
 Italy ’s  ERG SpA (ERG)  and Russia’s OAO Lukoil.  The EBRD, based in London, is in discussions with Lukerg
Renew GmbH to provide debt for the 84-megawatt facility in
Tulcea, Louis Borgo, a senior banker in EBRD’s power and energy
utilities team, said today by e-mail. Confidentiality agreements
prevented him giving further details, he said.  Romania is attracting wind investors because of its clean
energy incentive program and location along the  Black Sea , where
average wind speeds are about 25.2 kilometers per hour (15.7
miles per hour).  Italy’s  Enel Green Power SpA (EGPW)  said in June it planned to
double its Romanian wind power to 500 megawatts in four years,
and Austria’s  Verbund AG (VER)  this month said it will spend about 340
million euros ($440 million) on wind there through 2016.  “We believe in the Romanian renewable regime and we are
pursuing a number of renewable projects in the country, in wind,
solar and biomass, which are at various stages in our approval
cycle,” Borgo said.  Lukerg Renew is “in the course of acquiring” the wind
farm, which is ready to build in Dorobantu, Topolog and
Casimcea. It expects to complete the deal in October, according
to a statement on the EBRD website. EBRD would lend on a limited
recourse basis, where the creditor has limited claims on the
debt if there’s a default.  Enel Green last month started operations at its 48-megawatt
Moldova Noua wind farm in  Romania ’s Banat region. That project
along with Enel’s Corugea wind farm also in Romania won 112
million euros of funding from the Danish export credit agency,
Eksport Kredit Fonden.  Verbund, based in Vienna, this month commissioned its 100-
megawatt Casimcea I wind farm near Romania’s Black Sea coast and
has 100 megawatts more under construction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  