-- ECB Says Cost of New Frankfurt Skyscraper Soars by 41%
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-09-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/ecb-says-cost-of-new-frankfurt-skyscraper-soars-by-up-to-41-.html
The  European Central Bank  said the
cost of its new Frankfurt headquarters will jump by as much as
41 percent due to higher prices for construction materials and
“a number of unforeseen challenges.”  The 185-meter twin-towered skyscraper will now cost as much
as 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion), up to 350 million euros
more than the initial price of 850 million euros, the ECB said
in a statement yesterday. The central bank’s relocation to the
new premises remains scheduled for 2014, it said. Previously,
the ECB said it would move into its new headquarters in early
2014, with construction due for completion at the end of 2013.  The cost blowout comes as the ECB castigates profligate
European governments for failing to control their own spending.
It’s also another setback for a construction project that was
delayed in 2008 when bids exceeded the ECB’s budget in the
initial tender process. The building was originally scheduled
for completion in 2011.  “It is anticipated that increases in the price of
construction materials and construction activities from 2005
until the completion of the project in 2014 will lead to a 200
million-euro increase in the overall investment cost,” the ECB
said. “In addition, there have been a number of unforeseen
challenges that needed to be dealt with” that are “likely to
account for additional costs of about 100-150 million euros,”
it said.  ‘Topping Out’  The ECB revealed the new costs at a “topping out”
celebration to mark completion of the main structural works on
the skyscraper.  The complex on the banks of the river Main features two
twisting towers connected by an atrium. One tower reaches 185
meters, or 45 floors, and the other rises to 165 meters, or 43
floors. It is built on the site of  Frankfurt ’s former wholesale
fruit market, and will include a memorial to the Jews who were
detained there during the Nazi era before their deportation to
concentration camps.  Construction works on the wholesale market hall, or
Grossmarkthalle, and the entrance building “are approximately
six months behind schedule, owing to the complexity of the
requisite restoration works on the original fabric of this
listed building,” the ECB said.  The central bank plans to occupy the new complex with
between 1,500 and 1,800 ECB staff members as well as experts
from the national central banks of the euro area, external
consultants and trainees, according to information on its
website.  “The new premises will provide the ECB with a modern and
functional headquarters, and I hope that they will be viewed by
the people of Frankfurt, and beyond, as an enrichment of
Frankfurt’s skyline and the landscape of  Europe ,” ECB Executive
Board member Joerg Asmussen said at the ceremony yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  