-- Hedge Fund Group AIMA Names Ex-SEC Official as Chairman
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-09-20T18:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/hedge-fund-group-aima-names-ex-sec-official-as-chairman.html
The world’s largest hedge-fund
advocacy group has named a former U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission official its chairman as the $2.1 trillion industry
grapples with increased regulation.  Kathleen Casey , who stepped down as a Republican SEC
commissioner last year, was appointed non-executive chairman of
the Alternative Investment Management Association, the London-
based lobbying group said in an e-mailed statement today. She
replaces Todd Groome, a former  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  executive and
adviser to the  International Monetary Fund , whose term expired.  Casey, 46, takes the post as global regulators implement
rules ranging from restrictions on who can invest in  hedge funds 
in Europe to U.S. requirements that funds undergo routine  SEC 
inspections and disclose their leverage and investments to the
government. European watchdogs are also considering whether to
stiffen oversight of so-called shadow banking, a term that
describes all financing activities not performed by banks.  “As we move internationally from a period of legislative
drafting to regulatory implementation, her enormous experience
will be invaluable,” AIMA Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Baker 
said of Casey in the statement.  From 2006 through 2011, Casey served as one of the five SEC
officials who vote on whether to adopt new regulations for the
finance industry and to punish individuals and companies for
violations of securities laws. Her tenure coincided with the
meltdown of the U.S. housing market that led to the collapses of
Bear Stearns Cos. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  Dodd-Frank  The resulting global financial crisis prompted the  U.S.
Congress  to approve the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, which increased
regulation of banks and hedge funds.  Casey last year voted against a rule mandated by Dodd-Frank
that requires hedge funds to register with the SEC. She  argued 
that record-keeping and disclosure requirements that the SEC
imposed on hedge funds managing less than $150 million
undermined Congress’s intent that smaller firms be exempt from
registration. The rule passed 3-2 with Democratic SEC
commissioners supporting it and Republicans in opposition.  AIMA  has 1,300 corporate members ranging from hedge funds
to accounting firms and prime brokerage units at banks. Casey’s
term as chairman lasts for two years. Groome had held the
position since 2009, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  