-- Mediobanca Cuts Dividend After Quarterly Loss on Writedowns
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-09-20T16:38:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/mediobanca-cuts-dividend-after-quarterly-loss-on-writedowns-1-.html
Mediobanca SpA, (MB)   Italy ’s biggest
publicly traded investment bank, cut its dividend 71 percent
after reporting a  quarterly loss  on writedowns of equity
holdings and securities. The stock fell the most in a month.  The bank had a net loss of 24 million euros ($31 million)
in the fiscal fourth quarter ended June 30, compared with a loss
of 50.3 million euros a year earlier, the Milan-based company
said in a statement today. That’s wider than the average
680,000-euro loss estimated by five  analysts surveyed  by
Bloomberg. The bank cut its dividend to 5 cents a share from 17
cents a year earlier, and compares with a Bloomberg projection
of 10 cents.  Chief Executive Officer Alberto Nagel is cutting costs and
diversifying business as impairments on equity stakes and loans
hurt profit. The lender may reduce its holdings, including its
stake in  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) , Italy’s biggest insurer,
newspaper  Il Messaggero  reported Aug. 30.  The lower dividend “coupled with worse-than-expected
results explains the market’s initial bad reaction,” Aldo Comi,
an analyst at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux SA in Milan, wrote in a
note. It’s underperform rating remains unchanged, he said.  Extraordinary Losses  Mediobanca  fell as much as  4.6 percent in Milan trading
after the results, reversing earlier gains of as much as 3.9
percent. Shares closed down 15 cents to 4.08 euros, giving the
bank a market value of 3.5 billion euros.  The bank reduced its “risk profile” in the fiscal year as
net income declined to 80.9 million euros from 368.6 million
euros in the previous year, Mediobanca said. “Exposure to
equity was reduced by 2 billion euros, as the government bond
portfolio increased with shorter duration,” it said.  The lender posted a 91 million-euro gain from the sale of
its 8.5 percent stake in Autostrade Sud America, a toll-road
company in  Chile .  “We should further decrease our equity exposure, which is
too high,” Nagel said during a conference call today. “We will
come up with a proposal in months to come when the situation in
the euro area is more stable and Basel III rules are approved.”  Extraordinary losses in the quarter included 23 million
euros of writedowns for the bank’s stake in publisher  RCS
Mediagroup SpA (RCS)  and 133 million euros related to  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s
convertible and subordinated hybrid equity-linked securities
known as CASHES.  Mediobanca’s loan-loss provisions increased to 141.5
million euros in the quarter from 28.2 million euros a year ago.
Total revenue rose 6 percent to 452.2 million euros in the
quarter, while operating costs declined 8 percent to about 194
million euros.  The lender’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, rose to 11.5 percent as of June 30 from 11.1
percent at the end of March, confirming Mediobanca as one of the
best-capitalized lenders in the country.  Mediobanca decreased its sovereign debt holdings, mainly
Italian securities, to 9.2 billion euros at the end of June from
10.3 billion euros in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  