-- Emerging-Market Stocks Drop Most in Two Months on China S
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-09-20T22:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/emerging-stocks-drop-most-in-2-weekss-on-china-japan.html
Emerging-market stocks fell the
most in two months as data signaling contractions in Chinese and
European manufacturing as well as an increase in jobless claims
in the U.S. eroded confidence in the global economy.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets   Index (VXEEM)  lost 1.1 percent to 998.27
in New York, the steepest slide since July 23. Mexico’s IPC
Index retreated the most in three weeks, with  Grupo
Aeroportuario del Pacifico SAB  posting the biggest decline in
four months. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  tumbled 2.1 percent to
the lowest level since February 2009. OAO  Mechel (MTLR) , the Russian
coal producer, sank 3.8 percent in its fourth day of losses.  China’s manufacturing may shrink in September for an 11th
month, according to preliminary data for a purchasing managers’
index released by Markit Economics. A gauge of euro-area
manufacturing and services output fell to a 39-month low and
trailed the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Japan’s exports dropped for a third month in August, the
government said today and jobless claims in the U.S. rose more
than forecast.  “The reality is we are living in a very pressured global
economy,” Aryam Vazquez, an economist for global emerging
markets at  Wells Fargo & Co ., said by phone from New York. “The
market got ahead of itself in its optimism over the flush global
liquidity conditions. Growth continues to disappoint,
particularly in China and the EU, and that is the fundamental
driver of global risk perception.”  The iShares  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, dropped 0.6
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, declined 3.7 percent.  ‘Low Growth’  Mexico’s IPC Index lost 1.1 percent as Aeroportuario del
Pacifico tumbled 3 percent. Brazil’s Bovespa index rose for the
first time in four days, gaining 0.1 percent, after a report
showed unemployment unexpectedly dropped last month.  The index of U.S. leading economic indicators fell 0.1
percent in August, led by a decline in new orders for
manufacturing. The U.S. Labor Department reported jobless claims
reached 382,000 last week, which was more than the 375,000
forecast by economists polled by Bloomberg.  “I think all these numbers add to the climate of low
growth,” Vazquez said. “Nothing is being done to address these
structural issues. What we continue to see are mere liquidity
fixes.”  Sensex Falls  The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  fell 0.8 percent and the
rupee weakened after Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s largest
coalition partner said it will quit the government over policy
changes announced last week.  Russia’s Micex Index was little changed. Equity gauges in
Malaysia and the Czech Republic declined more than 1 percent.
All 10 industry groups in the MSCI emerging markets index
retreated, led by material companies.  The developing-nations measure has climbed 8.9 percent this
year, trailing a 13 percent increase by the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO) 
The emerging-markets index trades at 11.2 times estimated
earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 13.4,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
dollar bonds over U.S. Treasuries rose three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 294, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global Index.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest offshore energy
explorer, fell 3.5 percent, the most since July 24. Jiangxi
Copper Co., China’s biggest producer of the metal, lost 3.1
percent. Copper sank 1.4 percent in New York.  China Manufacturing  The preliminary manufacturing reading for China, the
world’s largest user of copper and the biggest emerging economy,
was 47.8, compared with August’s final reading of 47.6. A number
below 50 separates expansion and contraction.  If confirmed, it will indicate the longest streak of
contraction in the survey’s eight-year history. Imports in Japan
slid 5.4 percent, leaving a trade deficit of 754.1 billion yen
($9.6 billion), according to the  Finance Ministry .  The slowdown coincides with rising tensions between China
and Japan over disputed islands, which threatens a trade
relationship of more than $340 billion. Japanese automobile
sales in China will be hurt as the tensions deter consumers,
according to the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association.  Motech Industries Inc. (6244) , a Taiwanese solar cell maker, slid
6.4 percent, the biggest drop in the MSCI emerging market index,
after solar panel prices and oil sank.  Neo Solar Power Corp. (3576) 
tumbled 5.4 percent and  Green Energy Technology Inc. (3519)  slumped 5.9
percent in Taipei.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  