-- Emerson CEO Sees Gain Chilling Food as Home-Cooling Growth Slows
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-09-20T14:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/emerson-ceo-sees-gain-chilling-food-as-home-cooling-growth-slows.html
Emerson Electric Co. (EMR)  Chief
Executive Officer  David Farr  wants to boost growth at his air-
conditioner compressor unit by helping keep the world’s food
supply from spoiling.  Chilling perishables in developing nations offers a way to
boost sales in a Climate Technologies business crimped by a
stagnant U.S. housing market and dominance in North American
sales of air-conditioner compressors, Farr said in an interview
at Emerson’s St. Louis headquarters.  “I need to get my growth elsewhere and I think the
elsewhere is going to be in the refrigeration area,” Farr said.
“If you go look at the No. 1 issue around the world, it’s
food.”  Cooling food and not just homes is part of Farr’s strategy
to cope with a global economic slowdown that he said may drag
for five years while U.S. and European policy makers grapple
with cutting debt. Farr said he expects  emerging markets  to grow
at a 6 percent annual rate instead of the recent 8 percent, and
developed countries at 2 percent rather than 3 percent.  The climate unit generated 16 percent of Emerson’s $24
billion of  2011 revenue , and it’s one of four businesses with
worldwide growth potential on which the company will focus,
according to Farr. The others are network power, process
management and industrial automation, he said.  Refrigeration Demand  Emerson expects the $100 million global market for
compressors in transport refrigeration to grow 21 percent a year
through 2015, and the $86 million market for the units in
industrial refrigeration to expand an at an average rate of 16
percent, according to a company presentation.  Most of the new demand will be in developing nations, Farr
said. Pushing into refrigeration will help Emerson’s  climate
unit  cut its reliance on residential air conditioning to about a
third of sales over time from 42 percent in 2011, he said.  “That’s going to be a huge growth market for us,” said
Farr, 57, who has been CEO since 2000. Macquarie Group Ltd.
estimates that Emerson has more than a 70 percent share of sales
of U.S. air-conditioner compressors, a figure that Emerson
declines to discuss.  In developing nations, food loss for fruits and vegetables
can exceed 50 percent across all the stages from production
through consumption, according to a report by the  Food and
Agriculture Organization , a United Nations agency. For meat and
dairy products, the rate may top 20 percent.  Emerson already is moving to fill that refrigeration gap.
Farr spent $50 million in April to buy  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) ’s
marine container and boiler controls business. That helped
Emerson expand into products that monitor refrigerated sea
containers, adding to its main business of building compressors
for heating, ventilation and air conditioning units.  “Emerging markets are still in these dark ages of having
open-air food markets, and the retail supermarkets are only a
fraction of the kind we know,” said  Deane Dray , an analyst with
Citigroup Inc. in  New York . “That’s still a land grab.”  Emerson’s 8.5 percent  gain this year  through yesterday
trailed the 16 percent advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. The shares slid 0.4 percent to $50.36 at 10:29 a.m. in
New York, joining a retreat in the  S&P 500 .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  