-- EU Banks May Face Graduated Capital Surcharges in Compromise Bid
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-09-20T14:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/eu-banks-may-face-graduated-capital-surcharges-in-compromise-bid.html
Banks in the European Union may
face a sliding scale of additional  capital requirements  based on
the havoc that would be unleashed by their collapse, according
to draft plans obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
is proposing to impose capital surcharges on lenders based on
whether their failure would do damage at national, European, or
 global level , according to the document, which is intended to
spur compromise talks on a draft EU bank law. Lenders would face
curbs on paying bonuses and dividends until the requirements are
met.  Banks whose collapse would damage the economy in only one
country would face surcharges of as much as 3 percent of their
risk-weighted assets, according to the document, which will be
discussed today at a Brussels meeting of government officials
and lawmakers. The document, which doesn’t specify the
surcharges that European and globally systemic lenders should
face, says the European Banking Authority should draft technical
rules that would underpin the system.  Lawmakers and national governments in the 27-nation EU are
at loggerheads over how to apply an overhaul of bank rules
agreed on by global regulators in 2010. The measures, known as
Basel III, more than triple the core capital that lenders have
to hold to protect themselves from insolvency.  Biggest Banks  The Basel group has called for nations to adopt the rules
by January 2013, and to fully apply them from 2019. Lawmakers
have said that the bloc may miss the 2013 deadline because of
ongoing talks on the legislation.  Twenty percent of  Europe ’s biggest  banks (SX7P)  would have failed
to meet the Basel III requirements had they been in force in
June 2011, according to data published in April by the European
Banking Authority. Lenders had a collective capital shortfall of
242 billion euros ($313 billion).  The commission compromise proposals flesh out agreements
reached by the Basel committee to make systemic banks hold more
capital than is required under Basel III.  While the Basel group agreed that globally systemic banks
should face surcharges of as much as 2.5 percent of their risk-
weighted assets, national regulators were left in charge of
setting requirements for banks that only pose a threat in one
country.  Lenders Complexity  The surcharges should be calculated based on criteria
including lenders’ size, complexity and interconnectedness,
according to the commission plan. The measures would exist
alongside some power for nations to force all banks under their
supervision to hold more capital than required by Basel III.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, has said
that agreement on the bank capital law is an essential precursor
for plans to build a so-called banking union with common
supervision and financial backstops for lenders.  The banking union, which was discussed by EU finance
ministers at a meeting last week in Nicosia, Cyprus, would
include the euro area and any other EU nations that choose to
voluntarily participate.  A spokesman for Barnier couldn’t be immediately reached for
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  