-- EU May Probe Microsoft for Tablet Software, Almunia Says
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-09-20T20:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/eu-may-probe-microsoft-for-tablet-software-almunia-says.html
European antitrust regulators may
open a new investigation into whether  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  can avoid
giving a choice of browsers in a new version of its  Windows
operating system  for tablet computers, the bloc’s competition
chief said.  “We will need to look at this,”  Joaquin Almunia , the
European Union’s competition commissioner, told  Bloomberg News 
following a speech at an antitrust conference in New York today.  Windows RT, the version of the software for tablets and
other devices that run on chips designed by ARM Holdings Plc,
prohibits any browser except for Internet Explorer, according to
a May blog  post  by Mozilla Corp., maker of the rival Firefox
browser. The software is to be introduced Oct. 26.  “We’re confident that our updates to the Windows family of
products -- Windows 8, Windows RT and Windows Phone -- will
offer customers additional choice in a very competitive
market,” Robin Koch, a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, said in an e-mail. “We are working with the
commission to answer any questions it may have.”  Microsoft agreed with EU regulators in 2009 to offer a
choice of browsers to users running its Windows operating
software for five years to settle an antitrust case alleging it
unfairly tied  Internet Explorer  to Windows.  Technical Error  The world’s largest software maker in July offered to
extend its commitment until March 2016 after the EU’s antitrust
agency said the company failed to comply with the settlement to
show the browser screen to some users. The company expressed
regret for what it said was a technical error that meant the
browser selection wasn’t shown on about 28 million computers.  EU regulators are preparing an antitrust complaint over
Microsoft’s failure to comply with the browser-choice
requirement under the 2009 settlement agreement, two people
familiar with the matter told Bloomberg News Sept. 18.  Almunia said a review of the tablet software would be a new
matter that would be handled separately from the existing probe,
in which Microsoft admitted it had failed to comply.  Microsoft has already been fined 1.68 billion euros
($2.2 billion) in EU antitrust probes, including an 899 million-
euro penalty for failing to obey an order to share data with
competitors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in  New York  via 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  