-- EU Parliament to Seek ‘Quality’ CO2 Decision Without Delays
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-09-20T12:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/eu-parliament-to-seek-quality-co2-decision-without-delays-1-.html
The European Parliament is seeking
a well-considered decision on a proposed change to the European
Union’s carbon law and will vote without delays, the chairman of
the assembly’s environment committee said.  Matthias Groote, who earlier this month was appointed to
steer through Parliament the draft amendment that would enable
the EU to curb an excess of carbon permits, said no decision has
been taken yet about the exact voting timeline. The strategy to
curtail oversupply in the world’s biggest cap-and-trade system
was proposed by the European Commission in July.  “The votes will take place as soon as possible,” Groote,
a German Socialist member of the parliament, said in an
interview in Brussels today. “It’s a very important issue and
timing matters but I also want to have a quality decision.”  The change to the EU legislation needs approval by the
environment committee and the whole assembly, as well as
qualified-majority backing from national governments. At stake
are prices in the bloc’s emissions-trading system, which fell to
a record low in April after a crisis hurt industrial output,
boosting the glut of permits to almost a half of the average
annual pollution limit in the program.  “There’s several factors we need to take into account. I
want to hear from political groups, there’s a report on the ETS
due to be presented by the commission and we need to see what
positions the governments have,” Groote said.  Law Change  The planned law change is the first element in the plan
designed by the commission and aims to reassert the EU
regulator’s right to decide about the timing of carbon auctions
when the bloc moves to bigger sales of permits as of next year.  In the second step the commission wants to present a draft
measure to delay sales of some emission allowances at the
beginning of the next trading period starting in 2013, an idea
known as backloading.  Member states  have so far had three meetings this month on
the commission’s plan. Many nations still don’t have an official
position on the amendment and the backloading measure,  Poland ’s
Environment Minister Marcin Korolec said yesterday, adding that
more gatherings will be needed.  Poland, which relies on coal for more than 90 percent of
its electricity needs, is objecting to the carbon-permit supply
curbs, arguing they amount to manipulating the market. Slovakia
is also voicing opposition, according to two EU diplomats with
knowledge of the talks. The Czech Republic’s Prime Minister
Peter Necas said earlier this month his government will probably
not support the commission’s plan.  Backloading Strategy  The Netherlands has also signaled it’s unlikely to back the
backloading strategy, though some politicians including Bas
Eickhout, a Dutch member of the Green group in the European
Parliament, say the country may change its position after a new
government is formed following Sept. 12 elections.  France and  Belgium  both expressed support for the plan to
curb carbon oversupply at yesterday’s meeting of the Climate
Change Committee, which consists of representatives of national
governments, said the EU diplomats, who declined to be
identified because the talks were private.  EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said earlier this
year she was aiming for a member states’ decision on the
backloading measure by the end of this year. The commission has
yet to come up with a specific number of permits to be postponed
at auctions. Peter Vis, head of Hedegaard’s political cabinet,
said Sept. 18 the commission is working on an impact assessment
into its supply-curbs proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  