-- EU Targets Money Funds in Bid to Strengthen Shadow Bank Rules
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-09-20T13:31:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/eu-targets-money-funds-in-bid-to-strengthen-shadow-bank-rules.html
Money-market funds may face tougher
rules as part of a European Union bid to prevent so-called
shadow banks from causing another financial crisis, according to
draft EU documents obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The EU may seek to regulate some types of shadow banks to
make sure their solvency receives the same scrutiny as that of
regular banks, according to documents prepared by EU staff who
work on financial-services issues. Other measures could include
limits on large exposures and tighter rules on transactions
between a holding company and its subsidiaries, according to the
papers.  This could mean forcing money-market funds with a fixed
share value to switch to a floating-value system. EU financial
officials “in particular discussed that regulatory approach,”
according to the EU documents, written in preparation for a
Sept. 14-15 meeting of finance ministers and central bankers in
in Nicosia, Cyprus.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial-services chief, told the
ministers that he’s working on regulations targeted at “key
actors” in the shadow-banking system. The Financial Stability
Board has estimated that global shadow-banking activities were
worth about $60 trillion in 2010, as much as 30 percent of the
total financial system.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
plans to publish draft rules for shadow banks in November. A
policy document reflecting preparations for that initiative
showed that policy makers seek to strengthen supervision while
preserving “a useful channel of financial intermediation” that
can help the economy while the financial crisis limits the
amount of funding that banks can provide.  Financial Shocks  Money-market mutual funds merit particular attention
because of risks to their liquidity, Barnier said in Cyprus,
adding that he was “disappointed” the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission hasn’t agreed on rules for the $2.6 trillion
industry. U.S. regulators had to step in to prevent further
contagion after the 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve
Primary Fund, one of the biggest financial shocks that came in
the aftermath of  Lehman Brothers ’ Holdings Inc.’s failure.  The EU is considering many of the same options as the SEC,
according to the planning documents. These include “redemption
gates” to prevent investor withdrawals from hurting financial
stability, as well as reviews of pricing techniques.  Credit Risk  The  European Central Bank  has recommended that any move
from constant-value shares to variable share value should be
accompanied by other measures, according to the documents. These
could include limits on credit risk and on the balance between
long-term lending and short-term borrowing, as well as bank-like
capital and liquidity requirements, the documents say.  The EU also is considering how to strengthen supervision of
exchange-traded funds and securities lending markets, including
 repurchase agreements . These transactions, known as repos, are
contracts in which one investor agrees to sell a security and
then buy it back at a future date at a fixed price.  EU financial officials are waiting for global guidelines
before endorsing specific actions for repos, according to the
documents.  The EU is studying options for non-banks such as stricter
rules on cash collateral reinvestments, limiting reuse of client
assets, and toughening requirements on segregating client assets
from those of the firm, according to the documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  