-- Euro-Area Services, Manufacturing Slump to 39-Month Low: Economy
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-09-20T10:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/euro-area-services-manufacturing-output-at-39-month-low-1-.html
Euro-area services and
manufacturing output fell to a 39-month low in September as
European leaders struggled to reverse the single-currency bloc’s
slide into recession.  A composite index based on a  survey  of purchasing managers
in both industries in the 17-nation euro area dropped to 45.9
from 46.3 in August, London-based Markit Economics said today in
an initial estimate. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.
Economists had forecast a reading of 46.6, the median of 23
estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey  showed.  The euro area’s economy is heading for a second straight
quarterly contraction after a 0.2 percent decline in the three
months through June as fallout from the fiscal crisis damps
consumer spending and corporate investment. European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  this month unveiled details of an
unlimited bond-purchase program to regain control of  interest
rates  and fight speculation of a currency breakup.  Today’s “dismal” report indicates the euro area will
suffer “further and appreciable GDP contraction” in the third
quarter, “which will put it in recession in every sense of the
word,”  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global
Insight in  London , said in an e-mailed note. “Sharply falling
incoming new business and employment in September do not bode
well for euro-zone economic activity in the fourth quarter.”  Asian Gloom  Archer said IHS forecast a third-quarter contraction of as
much as 0.4 percent. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 21 economists is for a 0.2 percent decline followed by
stagnation in the fourth quarter.  An indicator of euro-area services output dropped to 46 in
September, a 38-month low, while the manufacturing gauge rose to
46, a 14th straight monthly contraction, Markit said. In
 Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, the manufacturing index
improved to 47.3 from 44.7, and French production plummeted to
42.6, a 41-month low.  The prolonged gloom for manufacturers extended to  Asia ,
where a Chinese survey pointed to an 11th month of contraction
in September and  Japan’s exports  fell in August, supporting the
case for increased stimulus as Asia’s growth slows.  The preliminary reading was 47.8 for a  China purchasing
managers’ index  released today by Markit and HSBC Holdings Plc,
compared with a final level of 47.6 last month.  Japan ’s overseas
shipments slid 5.8 percent on weak demand from Europe and  China .  ECB Rate Cut  In the U.S.,  manufacturing output  growth probably slowed in
September, the median of 13 economists’ estimates in a Bloomberg
Survey showed. Markit will release the report at 2 p.m. today in
London.  Archer said today’s euro-area reports “heighten belief
that the ECB will be cutting interest rates from 0.75 percent to
a new record low of 0.50 percent sooner rather than later, with
a move looking ever more likely in October.”  The Frankfurt-based central bank holds its next policy
meeting on Oct. 4.  “We had hoped that the news regarding the ECB’s
intervention to alleviate the debt crisis would have lifted
business confidence, but instead sentiment appears to have taken
a turn for the worse, with businesses the most gloomy since
early-2009 due to ongoing headwinds from slower global growth,”
Markit’s chief economist,  Chris Williamson , said in the report.  “This gloom is clearly reflected in headcounts falling at
the fastest rate since January 2010 as companies seek to adjust
to weaker demand,” he said.  The euro-area’s unemployment rate is at a record 11.3
percent, with companies from  France  to  Belgium  cutting jobs to
weather the region’s turmoil.  Carrefour SA on Aug. 30 said it plans to cut as many as 600
administrative jobs in France as part of a three-year plan
formulated by Chief Executive Officer Georges Plassat to turn
around the world’s second largest retailer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  