-- European Stocks Drop on China Manufacturing Report
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-09-20T16:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/european-stock-futures-fall-amid-china-slowdown-signs-correct-.html
European  stocks  declined for the
third time in four days after a report signaled that Chinese
manufacturing will contract for an 11th month, adding to concern
the global economic slowdown is deepening.  A gauge of mining companies posted the biggest drop of the
19 industry groups in the benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP) 
 Daimler AG (DAI)  lost 2 percent after saying earnings will fall at its
Mercedes Benz Cars business.  Telenet Group Holding NV (TNET)  surged 13
percent after  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  made a $2.5 billion offer to
buy the rest of the communications company.  The Stoxx 600 slipped 0.2 percent to 274.5 at the close,
while the Euro Stoxx 50 gauge of the biggest companies in the
euro area dropped 0.6 percent. The Stoxx 600 has still climbed
17 percent from this year’s low on June 4 as European Central
Bank policy makers agreed to implement an unlimited bond-buying
program and the  Federal Reserve  unveiled its third round of
asset purchases.  “What happened with the central banks was necessary, but
not yet sufficient to really get us out of the crisis we’ve been
in over the last couple of years,” Norman Villamin, chief
investment officer for  Europe  at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc’s Coutts & Co. unit, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “What we really need is growth, and we think we need
to see more on the fiscal side. Without that, the markets are
going to have a hard time really continuing significantly higher
from here.”  China’s Manufacturing  China’s manufacturing industry will contract in September,
according to the preliminary reading of a purchasing managers’
index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.
The result of 47.8 compared with a final 47.6 last month. A
reading above 50 indicates expansion.  A  composite index  for services and manufacturing activity
in the euro area fell in September more than economists had
projected. The PMI slipped to 45.9, its lowest since June 2009,
from 46.3 last month. The  median estimate  of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg had called for a reading of 46.6.  France’s manufacturing industry  will contract this month
more than economists had forecast, according to a PMI released
today. The measure showed a preliminary reading of 42.6 for
September, less than the  median economist estimate  of 46.4 in a
Bloomberg News survey.  National benchmark indexes declined in 12 of the 18
western-European markets. Germany’s DAX slid less than 0.1
percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 and  France ’s CAC 40 each
dropped 0.6 percent.  Greece’s ASE Index climbed 1.4 percent, after earlier
rallying as much as 3.8 percent. The leaders of the country’s
governing coalition continued to discuss a proposed 11.5
billion-euro ($14.9 billion) package of budget cuts. Finance
Minister Yannis Stournaras called the talks difficult.  BHP Billiton  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  declined 2.3
percent to 1,954.5 pence and 4.4 percent to 1,944 pence,
respectively, contributing the most to a retreat by a  gauge of
mining companies  following the Chinese manufacturing report.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , India’s largest copper producer,
fell 2.4 percent to 1,054 pence.  Evraz Plc (EVR) , the mining company
and steelmaker partly owned by billionaire  Roman Abramovich ,
slumped 6 percent to 260.8 pence.  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  plunged 6.3 percent to 610.5 pence after a labor
analyst said that the platinum producer’s pay increase for
workers at its Marikana mine sets a negative precedent for
employers in  South Africa . The miners agreed to return to work
today after Lonmin offered to raise their wages by as much as 22
percent and pay them a one-off bonus.  “The lesson that workers have learnt is that violence and
intimidation lead employers to capitulate,” said Loane Sharpe
at Adcorp Holdings Ltd. by phone yesterday. “It sets a very
dangerous precedent.”  Daimler Declines  Daimler retreated 2 percent to 39.23 euros as the world’s
 third-largest luxury vehicle maker  said earnings from its car
division will drop in the second half of 2012. Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG, the biggest manufacturer of luxury cars, lost
2.9 percent to 59.44 euros.  PSA Peugeot Citroen slipped 3.3 percent to 6.64 euros after
its debt rating was cut to three levels below investment grade
by  Fitch Ratings  late yesterday in the latest sign of
deteriorating finances at  Europe’s second-biggest carmaker . A
union leader said that Peugeot and France’s President,  Francois
Hollande , will discuss ways of reducing the number of
redundancies that the carmaker had planned to make.  Pirelli, Mediobanca  Pirelli & Cie. fell 3.2 percent to 8.94 euros. Citigroup
Inc. lowered  the world’s fifth-largest tire maker  to neutral
from buy.  Nokian Renkaat Oyj (NRE1V)  dropped 3.3 percent to 33.08 euros
as the brokerage cut the Nordic tire manufacturer to sell from
neutral.  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  sank 3.6 percent to 4.08 euros. Italy’s
biggest publicly traded investment bank reported a quarterly
loss as writedowns of equity holdings and other securities
outweighed a one-off gain from the sale of a stake in a highway
management company in  Chile .  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  slumped 4 percent to 18.12 euros. UBS
AG cut eastern Europe’s third-biggest western lender to neutral
from buy, citing the 39 percent rally by its shares from the
beginning of this year through yesterday.  Electrolux AB (ELUXB) , the world’s second-largest appliance maker,
fell 3.6 percent to 165.20 kronor. The shares surged 56 percent
this year through yesterday’s close.  “I think it’s pure profit taking,” said Anders Trapp, an
analyst at SEB AB in  Stockholm . “This week there have been some
minor news that could be interpreted negatively, and this
creates profit taking for a share that has performed extremely
well this year.”  Telenet surged 13 percent to 35.20 euros, its biggest gain
in almost four years. Liberty Global, the John Malone-led cable-
TV company, offered to buy 49.6 percent of the Belgian business.
Englewood, Colorado-based Liberty will give Telenet investors 35
euros a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  