-- Ex-Fannie Mae Chief Raines Dismissed From Securities Suit
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-09-20T20:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/ex-fannie-mae-chief-raines-dismissed-from-securities-suit.html
Former  Fannie Mae  Chairman  Franklin Raines  was dropped from a securities fraud lawsuit brought
against him by shareholders for conduct related to the company’s
$6.3 billion overstatement of earnings from 2001 to 2004.  U.S. District Judge Richard Leon in  Washington  ruled today
that the shareholders couldn’t prove “either an intent to
deceive or an extreme departure from the standard of ordinary
care” on the part of Raines when reporting on the mortgage
finance company’s financial condition.  “The securities fraud laws are not a means for
shareholders to recover for all losses, no matter how sizable or
sudden,” Leon said in his 30-page ruling. “This court
concludes that plaintiffs have failed to put forth sufficient
evidence from which a reasonable jury could find that Raines had
such an intent.”  The  shareholders  sued in 2004. Federal investigators in
2006 accused Raines, 63, and other executives of overstating
profit from 2001 to June 2004 to meet targets and trigger
bonuses. Raines, who was Washington-based  Fannie Mae (FNMA) ’s chairman
and chief executive officer from January 1999 to December 2004,
denied the allegations.  Raines didn’t immediately respond to a telephone message
seeking comment on today’s ruling.  The  Ohio Public Employees Retirement System  and the  State
Teachers Retirement System of Ohio  are the lead plaintiffs
against Fannie Mae, two other former executives and KPMG, a
former company auditor.  Steven Toll, a lawyer for the shareholders, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail message seeking comment on the
ruling.  The case is Federal National Mortgage Association
Securities, Derivative and “ERISA” Litigation, 04-cv-01639,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  