-- Ex-Guerrilla Rousseff Adopts Business Agenda to Spur Brazil
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-09-20T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/ex-guerrilla-rousseff-adopts-business-agenda-to-spur-brazil.html
Dilma Rousseff  a conservative? For
those who know the story of Brazil’s president, that label seems
impossible. Rousseff is a former guerrilla and political
activist whose sympathies are clearly on the left.  Yet she’s so determined to get Brazil’s economy growing
again that she’s abandoned her Workers’ Party line to open the
country’s crumbling infrastructure to private management. She’s
also adopted an industry-backed agenda to cut costs for
business, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Sept. 24 issue.  The move is part of a broader shift in policy from fueling
a decade-long consumer-led boom to boosting competitiveness and
private investment, particularly for local manufacturers that
have lost market share to cheaper imports. Thanks to lower
overseas demand for commodities, falling investment, and rising
household debt,  Brazil , which rivaled India and  China  in 2010
with economic growth of 7.5 percent, will grow less than the
U.S. and  Japan  this year, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  In the last month, Rousseff has announced payroll-tax cuts,
reduced the rates industry pays for power, offered private
companies licenses to build and operate roads and railways, and
unveiled plans to do the same for major airports and ports. The
licenses are especially radical in Brazil, where the ruling
Workers’ Party does not like to give up any control of public
assets to the private sector. But if Rousseff can sell her
ideas, she can tap billions of dollars in investment capital to
modernize and revive infrastructure without increasing taxes.  Airport Terminals  During the 1995-2002 administration of President  Fernando Henrique Cardoso , Rousseff’s party criticized the privatization
of transport and telecommunications services. Yet in February,
Rousseff granted private companies licenses to build and operate
airport terminals in São Paulo and Brasilia, ending a state
monopoly.  “She’s crossed an ideological line others in her
government would not have done,” says Enestor dos Santos,
senior economist at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA. “She’s
a pragmatist.” Brazil will benefit from the know-how private
companies have in managing airports, ports, and other
infrastructure.  “At last they are waking up to adopt structural measures,
and not the quick-fix solutions of recent years,” said Gilberto
Cantu, head of the ground cargo transport association in Parana
state. “Having privately operated roads means paying tolls, but
it’s the only way out.”  Roads, Ports  Brazil urgently needs to repair its infrastructure, as well
as build new roads and ports. Potholed, jammed single-lane roads
help make cargo transport 40 percent more expensive than in the
U.S., says Cantu. Energy prices at 330 reais ($163) per
megawatt/hour are the fourth highest in the world, according to
CNI, Brazil’s all-industry trade group.  In July, rains, strikes, and inadequate cargo-loading
facilities created queues of over 100 anchored ships at the
southern port of Paranagua, a main export route for one of the
world’s top agriculture exporters. Some ships waited at anchor
for more than a month. Brazil ranks 126th out of 183 countries
in the latest World Bank  index  on the ease of doing business,
behind Uganda and Swaziland.  Industry leaders say removing such bottlenecks is essential
to reignite economic growth, which will slow to a consensus
forecast of 1.57 percent this year from 2.7 percent in 2011.
Rousseff has made competitiveness her new battle cry. “It’s
more than a new word, it’s a new concept, a new attitude,” she
said in a Sept. 6 Independence Day speech.  Falling Revenue  Faced with falling revenue as the economy slows, the
government hopes that awarding licenses to private companies to
build and operate 10,000 kilometers of railways and 7,500 km of
roads will attract 80 billion reais ($39.5 billion) in  capital
investment  over five years.  Cardoso’s party now accuses Rousseff of abandoning her
anti-privatization platform from the 2010 campaign. Rousseff
says that her plan will differ from the Cardoso privatizations.
“Our system of concessions will strengthen the state’s
regulatory powers to ensure quality, end monopolies, and ensure
the lowest possible shipping rates,” she said in her Sept. 6
speech.  While Rousseff is improving operating conditions for some
businesses, she continues to wield a heavy government hand in
managing the economy, says Paulo Vieira da Cunha, a partner at
investment firm Tandem Global Partners.  Import Tariffs  The government has increased import tariffs to protect
troubled industries and pressured banks to lower  interest rates 
and utilities to drop electricity rates in exchange for renewing
their concessions, according to Vieira da Cunha. “It’s a
positive agenda,” he says. “It’s an advance, but it’s not
liberalization. It creates regulatory uncertainty. What they
seek is a more efficient model of state-led development.”  Still, for those standing to benefit, Rousseff is on the
right track. The Curitiba-based Hubner Group, which makes engine
parts and truck trailers, expects to cut costs by 1.5 percent as
a result of lower power rates and payroll taxes. “With those
savings I can buy new machines,” says Nelson Hubner, the
company’s president. “These measures will save hundreds of
small companies from bankruptcy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  