-- Facebook’s ‘Beacon’ Settlement Upheld in Privacy Lawsuit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-09-20T21:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/facebook-s-beacon-settlement-upheld-in-privacy-lawsuit.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  won a court ruling
upholding its $9.5 million settlement of a class-action lawsuit
over claims that its since-discontinued “Beacon” feature
violated privacy laws.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  San Francisco  today ruled 2-1
that the 2009 accord on behalf of 3.6 million Facebook users is
fair. The two appellate judges agreed with a lower-court judge
that the settlement amount isn’t too low. It included about
$3 million for the lawyers, lead plaintiffs and administrative
costs.  The panel’s majority also said there was no conflict in a
Facebook director sitting on the board of the charitable
organization set up to distribute the remaining $6.5 million.  “A $9.5 million class recovery would be substantial under
most circumstances, and we see nothing about this particular
settlement that undermines the district court’s conclusion that
it was substantial in this case,” U.S. Circuit Judge Procter Hug Jr. said, writing for the majority.  Facebook Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  in 2007
apologized after users complained that the social-networking
site’s Beacon advertising program violated their privacy. The
feature tracked what users buy online and shares the information
with their friends.  “We appreciate the Court of Appeals’ careful consideration
of this case, and are pleased that the panel affirmed the
district court’s ruling that the Beacon settlement is fair,
reasonable, and adequate,” Facebook Deputy General Counsel
Colin Stretch said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Settlement Perverts’  Senior U.S. Circuit Judge Andrew Kleinfeld wrote today in
his dissent that the lawyers obtained millions of dollars in
fees and that Facebook obtained a judgment “that bars claims by
millions of people victimized by its conduct.”  “This settlement perverts the class action into a device
for depriving victims of remedies for wrongs, while enriching
both the wrongdoers and the lawyers purporting to represent the
class,” the judge said.  Steven Helfand, a lawyer for class members who objected to
the settlement, said in a phone interview that the attorneys
were still studying the opinion and were inclined to seek
further review.  “Obviously we agree very much with the dissenting
opinion,” Helfand said.  The case is Lane v. Facebook, 10-16380,  U.S. Court of
Appeals , Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 