-- FCC Says It Didn’t Know About LightSquared Interference
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-09-21T14:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/fcc-says-it-wasn-t-aware-of-interference-posed-by-lightsquared.html
The Federal Communications
Commission said it initially approved  Philip Falcone ’s
LightSquared Inc. without knowing the wireless service would
interfere with global positioning system signals, because GPS-
gear makers didn’t complain.  “The FCC would have investigated any interference issues
as soon as they were raised,”  Julius Knapp , chief of the
agency’s Office of Engineering and Technology, said in testimony
at a U.S. House hearing today.  The FCC halted LightSquared once it was told by
manufacturers and users of navigation devices that
LightSquared’s wireless phones would interfere with GPS, Knapp
said. “The commission acted responsibly,” he said.  LightSquared in January 2011 got a tentative go-ahead from
the FCC for its planned wireless network. The agency changed
course and proposed in February 2012 to block the service.
Reston, Virginia-based LightSquared, backed by $3 billion from
Falcone’s Harbinger Capital Partners hedge fund, filed for
bankruptcy in May.  The January 2011 decision followed a brief public comment
period, Representative  Michael Burgess , a Texas Republican, said
at the hearing by the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s
subcommittee on oversight and investigations.  “A decision was made in haste,” Burgess said.  Issues before the committee include whether the FCC
adequately considered issues involving satellite and GPS
interests, according to a  committee memo  posted on the panel’s
website.  ‘Regulatory Uncertainty’  “We must not permit regulatory uncertainty at the FCC to
deter companies from investments,” said the subcommittee’s
chairman, Representative  Cliff Stearns , a Florida Republican.  “This investigation has revealed a regulatory review
process working as it should,” said Representative Diana Degette, a Colorado Democrat. “We have the FCC weighing the
pros and cons, and making a very difficult decision.”  LightSquared can’t deploy its service while the FCC decides
whether to revoke initial approvals, as it proposed doing in
February and hasn’t yet done, according to the agency’s  written
testimony submitted to the subcommittee . The written testimony
was attributed to Knapp and Mindel De La Torre, who heads the
FCC’s International Bureau.  GPS Airwaves  The interference problem stems from some GPS devices using
airwaves that aren’t assigned to navigation equipment, according
to the FCC’s written testimony. It isn’t the result of
LightSquared operating in spectrum assigned to GPS, the agency
said in its testimony.  “The commission relies on receiver manufacturers and
service providers to report interference issues,” the FCC said
in its written testimony. “The GPS industry did not do so until
very late in the proceeding. Once the commission received that
information, it acted quickly to prevent any public safety
problems.”  Jim Kirkland, general counsel of GPS-gear maker  Trimble
Navigation Ltd. (TRMB) , in an e-mail called the FCC’s testimony
“deeply misguided and wrong.”  “Once the FCC initiated these proceedings, the GPS
industry promptly raised the interference issues,” Kirkland
said.  LightSquared had no comment, Michael Tucker, a spokesman,
said in an interview.  The phone network would disrupt safety equipment that uses
GPS to help keep airliners from crashing, U.S. defense and
transportation officials said last year.  The company in FCC filings has said it continues to work to
solve the interference issue, and that the agency shouldn’t
revoke its permits.  Harbinger’s assets peaked at $26 billion in 2008 after a
successful bet on the housing market and have slipped to about
$3 billion. Falcone is being sued by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission over alleged improper loans from the fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  