-- Fed’s Kocherlakota Backs More Stimulus in Policy Reversal
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-09-20T21:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/fed-s-kocherlakota-backs-more-stimulus-in-policy-reversal.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said the central bank should
hold rates at around zero until unemployment drops below 5.5
percent, reversing his view in May that the Fed may need to
raise rates this year or next.  As long as inflation doesn’t exceed 2.25 percent, the Fed
“should keep the fed funds rate extraordinarily low until the
 unemployment rate  has fallen below 5.5 percent,” Kocherlakota
said. The comment aligns him with the  Federal Open Market
Committee ’s decision last week to continue purchasing bonds
until labor markets “improve substantially.” Kocherlakota is
one of the first Fed officials to specify what he considers
improvement in the labor market.  “They’re sending a message to people making long-term
decisions about investment and hiring: Don’t worry about us
clamping down, we are going to have accommodative policy even in
a stronger recovery,” said Michael Gapen, senior U.S. economist
at Barclays Plc’s investment-banking unit and a former member of
the Fed’s Division of Monetary Affairs. “They are telling you,
‘We have a long way to go, and we are going to let this run.’”  Before today Kocherlakota was one of four regional bank
presidents who warned of higher inflation, resisted Fed pledges
to hold rates near zero into the future or argued that monetary
policy can do little to improve employment. Presidents  Jeffrey Lacker  of Richmond, Dallas’s  Richard Fisher  and Philadelphia’s
 Charles Plosser  voiced such views this year.  Inflation Watching  The shift in focus among Fed officials from inflation-
watching to labor-market improvement may underscore their
concern about long-term joblessness. The proportion of the
unemployed out of work for 27 weeks or more has persisted at 40
percent or higher since December 2009. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  called job market stagnation -- where the jobless rate
has been above 8 percent for 43 months -- “a grave concern.”  Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  warned in a speech
today of labor market “scarring -- where long-duration
unemployment becomes ingrained into our labor market.”  The FOMC said in a Sept. 13 statement that economic
conditions would probably warrant holding the Fed’s target
interest rates near zero through at least mid-2015 and that
monetary stimulus will remain appropriate for a “considerable
time” after growth strengthens.  The FOMC’s newest easing -- including a plan to buy $40
billion of mortgage-backed securities each month -- has drawn
fire from some Fed presidents, including Fisher. He said
yesterday the bond buying will probably fail to create jobs
while risking a faster rise in prices. Lacker said on Sept. 18
that more stimulus “runs the risk of raising inflation.”  Voting Member  Lacker is a voting member of the FOMC this year and was the
only policy maker to dissent at the Sept. 12-13 meeting. Next
year Rosengren will have voting power on the panel.  Most U.S. stocks fell as data from  China  to Japan and
 Europe  increased concern that a global economic slowdown is
worsening. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.1 percent to
1,460.26, trimming an earlier decline of as much as 0.8 percent.  Kocherlakota said in April he expected unemployment to fall
to around 7 percent by the end of 2013 with inflation rising to
2.3 percent. He added that the committee would “need to
initiate our somewhat lengthy exit strategy sometime in the next
six to nine months or so, and that conditions will warrant
 raising rates  sometime in 2013 or, possibly, late 2012,”
according remarks to a chamber of commerce published on the
bank’s website.  More Stimulus  In the same speech Kocherlakota said he would favor more
stimulus if the outlook for unemployment rose or if inflation
forecasts fell “sufficiently.”  In May, Kocherlakota said “it’s an appropriate time to
start thinking about when to begin the process of reversing the
level of accommodation.”  “Six to nine months down the road, we should be thinking
about initiating our exit strategy,” he said.  The personal consumption expenditures price index
decelerated to a 1.3 percent increase for the 12 months ending
July from a 2.4 percent 12-month increase in January.  Speaking to reporters after his speech, Kocherlakota said
his view shifted in recent months partly because of a diminished
inflation threat.  Also, recent research indicates “much of what’s going on
with the unemployment rate is not structural,” suggesting that
the Fed has more room to bolster growth without stoking
inflation, he said.  The Baltimore-born Kocherlakota, who entered  Princeton
University  in  New Jersey  at the age of 15 and received a
doctorate from the  University of Chicago  at 23, was a staff
economist at the  Minneapolis Fed  from 1996 to 1998 and a
consultant to the bank between 1999 and 2009. He became the 12th
president of the Minneapolis Fed bank in October 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
1984 or  ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at   aito16@bloomberg.net . 