-- Fed’s Kocherlakota Wants to See Jobless Rate Cut to 5.5%
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-09-20T19:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/fed-s-kocherlakota-wants-to-see-jobless-rate-cut-to-5-5-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said the central bank should
hold the main interest rate near zero until unemployment falls
below 5.5 percent, marking the first time he has linked policy
to a specific economic goal.  “As long as the FOMC is continuing to satisfy its  price
stability  mandate, it should keep the fed funds rate
extraordinarily low until the unemployment rate has fallen below
5.5 percent,” Kocherlakota said today in a speech in Ironwood,
 Michigan , referring to the policy-setting  Federal Open Market
Committee .  The FOMC announced a new round of quantitative easing last
week to spur growth and job creation, while forecasting that the
benchmark interest rate will stay at a record low through at
least mid-2015. As recently as May, the Minneapolis Fed chief
said the central bank may need to begin an exit from record
stimulus as early as year-end.  Kocherlakota embraced a proposal by Chicago Fed President
 Charles Evans  to calibrate monetary policy based on specific
economic goals. Evans advocates holding to  near-zero rates  until
the jobless rate falls below 7 percent or inflation reaches 3
percent.  “My thinking has been greatly influenced by his,”
Kocherlakota said, referring to Evans. “By increasing monetary
accommodation, the Committee can better meet its employment
mandate while still satisfying its price-stability mandate,”
Kocherlakota said to business and community leaders at Gogebic
Community College.  Begin Exit  “It’s an appropriate time to start thinking about when to
begin the process of reversing the level of accommodation,”
Kocherlakota said on May 9. “Six to nine months down the road,
we should be thinking about initiating our exit strategy.”  Today, Kocherlakota said that under his proposal the
central bank may not raise rates for “four or more years.”  “The FOMC can provide more current stimulus if people
believe that liftoff will be triggered by a lower  unemployment
rate ,” he said.  Speaking to reporters after his speech, Kocherlakota said
his policy view shifted in recent months because of a variety of
factors, including a diminished inflation threat. During the
past two to three months, he’s seen “more downward pressure”
on prices, he said.  ‘Not Structural’  Also, recent research indicates “much of what’s going on
with the unemployment rate is not structural,” suggesting that
the Fed has more room to bolster growth without stoking
inflation, he said.  Kocherlakota said he would have voted in favor of the
FOMC’s decision to roll out a new round of stimulus last week,
His policy proposal would help “enhance” the effects of the
current easing measures in place, he said.  Stocks fell today as data from  Japan  to  China  to  Europe 
increased concerns that the global economic outlook is
worsening. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent to
1,459.45 as of 3:38 p.m. in  New York   The FOMC should give itself leeway by allowing inflation to
deviate from its 2 percent target, Kocherlakota said. The
committee could contemplate raising rates if inflation rises
above 2.25 percent, he said.  This medium-term price level makes policy more
“responsive” to economic developments and adds a safeguard
lacking in the current pledge to keep rates low, he said to
reporters.  History Lesson  History suggests it’s unlikely inflation will rise above
that point as long as the jobless rate remains above 5.5
percent, he said. Inflation will run at or below 2 percent for
the next two years, while the unemployment rate may fall to 7.5
percent, he said. He added that he’s not seeking to fuel
economic growth by allowing inflation to accelerate.  “I am doubtful about the efficacy of the inflation-based
approach,” he said. “Many households would believe that their
wage increases would not keep up with the higher anticipated
inflation rates,” prompting them to save more and spend less,
he said.  Confident the Fed will keep the fed funds rate near zero
until achieving 5.5 percent unemployment, “people will spend
more today, and that will drive up economic activity,”
Kocherlakota said.  “The current economic impact of both forms of
accommodation -- low  interest rates  and asset purchases --
depends on when the public believes that accommodation will be
removed,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  