-- FirstEnergy Chief Sees Canada Clearing Cnooc-Nexen
-- B y   D i v y a   B a l j i   a n d   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-09-20T19:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/firstenergy-chief-sees-canada-clearing-cnooc-nexen.html
Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion bid for
oil and natural-gas producer  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  will probably get
approval from the Canadian government, said FirstEnergy Capital
Corp. Chief Executive Officer Jim Davidson.  “My personal belief is they will find a way to allow this
transaction to go forward,” Davidson said today in an interview
at Bloomberg’s Toronto office.  Nexen shareholders approved the $27.50-a-share takeover in
a vote today. The deal still needs approval from the U.S., U.K.
and Canadian governments. Canada reviews foreign acquisitions
valued at more than C$330 million ($338 million) to ensure
there’s “net benefit” to the country.  The government said Aug. 29 it had received Cnooc’s
application to buy Nexen. Canada has 45 days to examine the deal
and may extend that deadline by 30 days. Cnooc,  China ’s largest
offshore oil and gas producer, announced the agreed offer July
23.  Closely held FirstEnergy, based in Calgary, is an oil and
gas boutique investment dealer with about 130 employees in
Calgary and London. It ranked 10th in Canada for equity and
equity-linked sales last year, raising $772 million in 11 deals,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The firm ranks 22nd
this year with four deals.  The Nexen deal is “a great test case,” Davidson said. The
federal government’s rejection in 2010 of Melbourne-based BHP
Billiton Ltd.’s hostile $40 billion bid for Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. was a “different story,” Davidson said,
without elaborating. Potash Corp. was the second takeover since
1985 to be blocked under Canadian law.  Assets Return  Nexen produces crude from its Long Lake oil-sands project
in  Alberta , as well as projects in the  North Sea , offshore West
Africa and the  Gulf of Mexico . U.S. authorities can block the
sale of Nexen’s Gulf assets.  Assuming the deal succeeds, the Nexen assets may eventually
come back on the market anyway, Davidson said. Chinese companies
in particular are focused on acquiring skills and technology, he
said.  “Everybody takes out as much as you can from the assets
you have and they become less important to you, for whatever
reason it is, and you drive on,” he said. “I believe that
there’s a possibility that these assets are going to come back
to us at some point.”  Besides Nexen,  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) , based in Calgary,
could become a takeover candidate for an Asian buyer, Davidson
said. New CEO Hal Kvisle is “methodical” and will take his
time to make the company profitable in the near term, Davidson
said. “At some point in time that company will be for sale.”  Davidson said he also sees  Athabasca Oil Corp. (ATH)  being
“taken out.” He declined to comment on whether potential
buyers include  PetroChina Co. (857) , which bought a 60 percent stake
in the company’s MacKay River and Dover oil-sands projects in
2010, and acquired the remainder of MacKay River in March.  Northern Gateway  Northern Gateway,  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s proposed C$5.5-billion
pipeline to carry oil-sands crude to the Pacific coast through
British Columbia is a bridge too far, Davidson said.  “There’s too much opposition to it,” he said. “I believe
it makes sense. I believe it’s logical. We are supportive of the
project. It can be financed. Enbridge are very good operators.
The project would be very beneficial to the oil patch, B.C. and
to  Canada . I just see the local opposition as being too
strong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Divya Balji in Toronto at 
 dbalji1@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  