-- Fitch Says N.J. Challenged by Revenue, Pension Obligation
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-09-20T18:32:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/fitch-says-n-j-challenged-by-revenue-pension-obligation.html
New Jersey ’s revenue projections
for fiscal 2013 pose a “notable downside risk” and its
pension-funding level will continue to deteriorate even after
cost-saving changes to retirement benefits,  Fitch Ratings  said.  “While we believe the need to address revenue
underperformance is important, we expect the state’s significant
and growing unfunded pension and employee benefit liabilities,
combined with its above-average debt burden, to remain the key
challenges for New Jersey,” Fitch said in a report today.  Governor  Chris Christie  has projected revenue growth of 7.9
percent in the fiscal year that began July 1, helped by gains in
personal income, sales levies and corporate-tax receipts, Fitch
said. The projection may be optimistic given “the level of
economic uncertainty and recent modest growth in actual
revenues,” the credit-rating company said.  New Jersey’s unemployment rate climbed to a 35-year high of
9.9 percent in August from 9.8 percent in July and 9.4 percent a
year earlier, the state Labor Department said today. The figures
are preliminary and can change once more thorough surveys have
been conducted.  Christie, 50, a first-term Republican, has said a  tax cut 
will help create jobs. Democrats, who control the Legislature,
want to delay any reduction until they see whether revenue meets
the governor’s targets.  ‘Same Legacies’  “Their analysts wanted to reiterate that the real fiscal
problems facing the state are the same legacies of past
administrations that Governor Christie has worked to address
since his first day in office,”  Andy Pratt , a spokesman for
Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff, said of the Fitch report in
an e-mail.  Kevin Roberts , a spokesman for Christie, didn’t respond to
an e-mailed request for comment.  The state in recent years has raised the  retirement age ,
required public workers to pay more toward their benefits and
barred municipal contractors from enrolling in the pension fund.  New Jersey’s pension plan was 60.8 percent funded as of
June 30, 2011, according to Fitch. As of June 30, 2012, debt
outstanding was 7.8 percent of preliminary 2011 personal income.
When combined with the pension obligations, that figure
increases to 16.3 percent, above the 6 percent median for states
rated by Fitch, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  