-- Former GM CEO Says in WSJ U.S. Should Sell Stake
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   J a m e s   C a l l a n
-- 2012-09-20T20:09:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/former-gm-ceo-says-in-wsj-u-s-should-sell-stake.html
The U.S. government should “sell
every last share it owns” of  General Motors Co. (GM)  or else the
company will be seen as a failure, former Chief Executive
Officer  Ed Whitacre  said in a Wall Street Journal op-ed
commentary.  “The government has been an active participant in GM’s
management for more than three years, and that’s long enough,”
Whitacre wrote in the newspaper. “It’s time for the Treasury to
step out of the way.”  Jim Cain , a GM spokesman, didn’t have an
immediate comment.  Whitacre’s commentary doesn’t reference the  U.S.
presidential election . The auto industry bailout in 2009 and the
U.S. government’s role in saving GM have been debated by the
campaigns of President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, and his
Republican challenger,  Mitt Romney .  Whitacre wrote the  U.S. Treasury ’s $50 billion rescue of GM
has been a “resounding success,” saying millions of jobs were
saved. If GM had failed, other automakers and suppliers “would
likely have followed,” Whitacre wrote.  The former CEO said that while GM’s November 2010 initial
public offering “was a roaring success,” the company will
never shed its “Government Motors” image as long as money from
the Troubled Asset Relief Program is involved with GM.  GM dipped 1.3 percent to $24.42 at the close in New York.
The U.S. Treasury holds 32 percent of GM and is the automaker’s
largest shareholder. GM has declined 26 percent since its IPO.  Whitacre Record  Whitacre, 70, was Detroit-based GM’s CEO from December 2009
to September 2010. He joined GM as the Obama auto task force’s
pick for chairman as the automaker emerged from bankruptcy
reorganization in 2009. Whitacre was chairman and CEO of  AT&T
Inc. (T)  and its predecessor, SBC Communications Inc., from 1990
until 2007. He built AT&T into the largest U.S. phone company.  At GM, he pushed out then-CEO  Fritz Henderson , who had
guided the automaker through the bankruptcy. Henderson resigned
after GM directors concluded he hadn’t done enough to fix GM’s
finances and culture in a 100-day review following the July 10
bankruptcy exit, people familiar with the matter said at the
time.  Whitacre then got rid of four executives, reassigned 20
more and brought in seven outsiders to fill jobs within three
months. He supervised preparation of GM’s IPO before announcing
in August 2010 that he would step down as CEO Sept. 1 and as
chairman at the end of that year.  Dan Akerson, a company director, succeeded him and remains
CEO. Whitacre decided to leave because he was under pressure to
commit to staying at GM as part of the IPO process, people said
at the time.  GM’s IPO  GM’s IPO raised more than $20 billion selling common and
preferred stock, and its owners, including the U.S. Treasury,
sold at least $15.8 billion of common shares at $33 each. That
made it the second-largest U.S. IPO on record after  Visa Inc. (V) ’s
$19.7 billion.  Christy Romero , special inspector general for the Troubled
Asset Relief Program, told a U.S. House subcommittee in July in
written testimony that the Treasury needs to sell GM shares at
$52.39 or $53.98 per share to break even.  “Due to the enormity of Treasury’s stake, it could take a
number of years for Treasury to sell at or above break-even,”
Romero said in the statement.  ‘Parting Ways’  As CEO, Whitacre was eager to get the government out of
GM’s business, saying in August 2010 at an industry conference
in Acme,  Michigan : “We don’t like this label of Government
Motors. We know it turns off customers. It turns us off.”  Whitacre wrote in the Journal that as planning got under
way for the IPO, he pushed for the government to sell its entire
stake on the first day.  “I thought that parting ways in one clean sweep would send
a strong signal to  Wall Street  and the world that GM was back,”
he wrote. “If the stock sale fell short, GM could use its own
cash to make up the difference, ensuring that U.S. taxpayers got
repaid in full. This, to me, was a win-win: GM could return to
running its own business, and Treasury could rightly declare
victory on the auto bailout.”  Nobody with the “decision-making authority” on the IPO
liked the idea, he wrote.  While the U.S. government no longer has a majority stake,
it still exerts control over GM through the Troubled Asset
Relief Program, Whitacre wrote.  “TARP is funded by taxpayers, so there are many rules
about how that money can and can’t be used,” he wrote. “The
result: GM spends an awful lot of time checking in with the
people who administer TARP over everything from hiring to
executive compensation and management. For a global company,
that adds up to a lot of distraction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
James Callan in  New York  at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  