-- French First Lady’s TV Presentation Talks Rekindle Controversy
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-09-20T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/french-first-lady-s-tv-presentation-talks-rekindle-controversy.html
French First Lady  Valerie
Trierweiler  may be courting controversy again.  The partner of President  Francois Hollande  is in informal
talks about presenting a television show, prompting questions
about whether that’s an appropriate role for her. Trierweiler
stirred up a storm just a month after Hollande was elected in
May by posting a Twitter message supporting the opponent of his
ex-companion in regional elections. It prompted Prime Minister
Jean-Marc Ayrault to publicly call on her to be more discreet.  Hollande, who’s struggling with an economy that hasn’t
grown in three quarters, unemployment at a 13-year high and
dwindling popularity in the polls, can’t risk having a partner
whose public behavior is reproachable, said  Bruno Cautres , a
political analyst at Cevipof, a Paris-based research house.  “There’s a crisis and the French are starting to have
doubts as to who Francois Hollande really is and what his plans
are,” Cautres said. “He needs to regain control of his image.
After the Twitter affair, Valerie Trierweiler no longer has the
right to make a mistake.”  Relations between Trierweiler, Hollande, and Segolene Royal
-- the president’s ex-partner, the mother of his four children
and the Socialist presidential candidate against  Nicolas Sarkozy 
in 2007 -- have provided fodder for three recent books. The
tense relations between the two women have also made it to the
covers of several French magazines.  ‘Normal’ President  After the reign of Sarkozy, branded “President Bling
Bling” for his Ray-Ban sunglasses, his high-profile vacations
and his marriage while in office to model and singer  Carla Bruni ,
Hollande had promised to take the presidency back to the way it
has been in France by keeping his private life just that --
private.  Controversies surrounding Trierweiler, who is a journalist
for weekly magazine Paris Match, has made that difficult.  “Hollande built his campaign and his identity on the image
of a normal guy,” said  Laurent Dubois , a professor at Institute
of Political Studies in Paris. “We were convinced that, unlike
Sarkozy, he would have respected the line that separates public
and private life, a tradition the French are attached to, going
back to the time of General De Gaulle.”  Trierweiler’s action wouldn’t be “an accident,” he said.
“It’s not a simple mistake in behavior; it’s a real political
error.”  TV Host  The First Lady is in negotiations with  Canal Plus (AN) , France’s
largest pay-TV station, to present a show to be broadcast every
two months, Europe 1  reported  yesterday on its website.  A Canal Plus official confirmed talks are being held,
without providing details. According to the official, the talks
with Trierweiler, which took place over the past months, are at
an informal level and are the consequence of  Canal Plus ’s
purchase of Direct 8, another TV channel, where the First Lady
also did some work.  A spokesman for Trierweiler at the Elysee presidential
palace declined to give additional information on her plans for
a possible show.  “We have nothing to add to what Canal Plus said,”  Patrice
Biancone , the spokesman, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“No decisions have yet been made.”  Canal Plus will reach out to Trierweiler again in the
coming weeks, the TV company official said.  Hosting a show would expose Trierweiler to intense scrutiny,
with her pronouncements likely to be weighed for presidential
significance.  ‘First Gaffe’  Her Twitter message on June 12 led to “a mess worthy of
the best psychodramas during Sarkozy’s time,” the left-leaning
Liberation newspaper wrote on June 13 in an editorial.  The daily’s front page that day featured a picture of
Trierweiler, with the headline “The First Gaffe of  France .”  “We now know that Hollande’s normal presidency isn’t that
normal after all,” the editorial said.  The First Lady’s public endorsement of the candidate
running in the legislative elections against Royal drew the
disapproval of 69 percent of the French, according to a Harris
Interactive poll for Gala magazine published on June 15.  The message later disappeared from her Twitter account. She
has made only rare appearances with Hollande since.  As her possible TV-presentation talks surfaced, questions
emerged again about how much Hollande is able to control what
she does.  ‘Marshmallow’  “The impression is that he has trouble affirming himself,
that there is a lack of authority,” Dubois said. “It’s
particularly problematic, because Hollande has in the past been
labeled a ‘marshmallow’. This could have a boomerang effect on
his political image.”  Only 46 percent of voters now have a positive opinion of
Hollande, down 15 points since the end of June, according to a
BVA poll of 1,044 adults published this week.  “Had times been different, the French would have dismissed
this as an adventure similar to those taking place during the
monarchy,” Dubois said. “Here it’s Hollande’s authority that’s
been brought into question, his incapacity to put his partner in
her place. He can’t allow her to do whatever she wants.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  