-- G4S Should Waive $92 Million Olympic Security Fee, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-09-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/g4s-should-waive-92-million-olympic-security-fee-lawmakers-say.html
G4S (GFS)  Plc should waive its 57
million-pound ($92 million) fee for providing security at the
 London   Olympic Games , a panel of lawmakers said.  The company was “firmly and solely” to blame for failing
to provide enough security staff for games venues, which
led to armed service personnel being called up to fill the gaps,
the House of Commons Home Affairs Committee said in a report
published in London today. G4S should also be put on a list of
“high-risk” companies to inform public-service procurement.  “The largest security company in the world, providing a
contract to their biggest U.K. client, turned years of carefully
laid preparations into an 11th-hour fiasco,” Keith Vaz,  the
opposition  Labour Party  lawmaker who chairs the cross-party
panel, said in an e-mailed statement. “The taxpayer must not
pay for G4S’s mistakes. G4S should waive its 57 million-pound
management fee and also compensate its staff and prospective
staff who it treated in a cavalier fashion.”  The company, which made a 2.5 million-pound donation to an
armed-forces charity to thank service personnel for their work
at the games, is negotiating over how much of the fee it should
receive, Chief Executive Officer Nick Buckles told lawmakers on
Sept. 11. G4S filled 83 percent of the contracted shifts and
provided 7,800 of the security staff it was contracted to
provide, Buckles said. The military deployment peaked at 18,200
troops, the report said.  The company should pay staff who were not used after going
through training and accreditation as a result of G4S management
failures, the committee said. The armed forces should also be
considered as part of planning for major events, rather than as
a back-up, it said.  High-Risk Providers  G4S had contracts with 10 government departments and 14
police forces in  England  and Wales worth 759 million pounds in
the year ending April 2011, the report said. The U.K. should
keep a central record of failures to avoid giving contracts to
companies that don’t deliver, it said.  “We recommend that the government establish a register of
high-risk providers, who have a track-record of failure in the
delivery of public services,” the report said. “This would
provide a single source of information for those conducting
procurement exercises about companies which are failing or have
failed in the delivery of public contracts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  