-- Gasoline in U.S. Northwest Rises After BP Upset
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-09-20T22:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/gasoline-in-u-s-northwest-rises-after-bp-upset.html
Spot gasoline in the U.S. Northwest
rose to a two-week high against futures after  BP Plc (BP/)  reported a
process unit upset at the Cherry Point oil refinery in
 Washington  state.  BP’s 234,000-barrel-a-day Cherry Point refinery reported
that the equipment breakdown was “still ongoing” as of 1:53
p.m. local time today, a notice to the Northwest Clean Air
Agency shows. The plant reported on Sept. 12 a valve malfunction
that resulted in the loss of a compressor at the hydrocracker,
which converts heavy hydrocarbons into lighter fuels such as
high-octane gasoline.  Regular, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon , a
benchmark for the U.S. Northwest, rose 2 cents to a premium of
25 cents a gallon above gasoline futures traded on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 4:06 p.m. East Coast time, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The fuel has advanced for four straight days
and is at the highest level against futures since Sept. 6.  Scott Dean , a BP spokesman in Warrenville,  Illinois ,
declined to comment on operations at the refinery, Washington’s
largest.  Low-sulfur diesel in Portland advanced for the first time
in almost three weeks, rising by 2.5 cents to 9.5 cents a gallon
above heating oil futures traded on the Nymex.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in  San Francisco 
slipped 0.5 cent to a premium of 40.5 cents a gallon above
futures. The fuel tumbled 13 cents yesterday from a four-month
high. Carbob in  Los Angeles  also dropped 0.5 cent to a 34.5-
cent-a-gallon premium versus futures after falling 14 cents
yesterday.  Vessel Loadings  The Eagle Milan, chartered by  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , loaded clean
products in  Taiwan  around Sept. 15 and was scheduled to arrive
in Los Angeles Oct. 3, ship-fixture data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The Horizon Armonia, chartered by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ;
the Torm Platte, chartered by  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) ; and the Unique
Developer were also scheduled to load product this week for
delivery on the U.S. West Coast.  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in Los Angeles slipped 1
cent to 11 cents a gallon above heating oil futures on the
Nymex. The fuel in San Francisco fell 4.25 cents to 7.5 cents a
gallon over futures.  Phillips 66 (PSX) ’s 139,000-barrel-a-day Los Angeles refinery
reported flaring at 2:15 p.m. local time “for unknown
reasons,” a notice to the California Emergency Management
Agency shows.  The plant has returned “several units” to service
following a Sept. 15 power failure and expects to have all
equipment online by the end of the week,  Rich Johnson , a
spokesman at the company’s headquarters in Houston, said by e-
mail today. He didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
requesting comment on the flaring reported from the plant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  