-- Georgia Names Prison Minister as Jail-Abuse Rallies Escalate
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 2012-09-20T14:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/georgia-appoints-prison-minister-as-jail-abuse-protests-continue.html
Georgia  appointed a new minister to
oversee the Black Sea nation’s prisons as protests over abuse of
inmates escalated less than two weeks before parliamentary
elections.  In a televised speech today, President Mikheil Saakashvili
named Giorgi Tugushi as Corrections and Legal Assistance
Minister. Tugushi, 35, replaced Khatuna Kalmakhelidze, who
resigned yesterday after two TV channels showed videos of
prisoners being beaten and raped in Gldani jail No. 8 in the
capital, Tbilisi.  Thousands gathered in Tbilisi to denounce the abuse, with a
student rally marching to the presidential palace to demand the
departure of Interior Minister Bachana Akhalaia. Demonstrations
were also held in the city of Rustavi.  The prison scandal comes 11 days before an Oct. 1
parliamentary ballot in which Saakashvili’s ruling party faces a
challenge from billionaire Bidzina Ivanishvili’s Georgian Dream.
The organizers of the rallies have pledged to maintain pressure
on the authorities until their demands are met.  ‘Won’t Stop’  “This will continue until Bacho Akhalaia and the others
involved in the prison torture are punished,” Jaba Jishkariani,
a leader of the student protesters, said today in Tbilisi. “We
won’t stop -- that’s why came to the presidential palace,
because he’s the main cause of what’s going on today.”  Four of the 10 people detained in connection with the
allegations of abuse have been sentenced to pre-trial
incarceration, the Rustavi-2 TV station reported, citing a
Tbilisi court decision. As many as 900 family members have been
allowed into the Gldani prison since yesterday to visit inmates,
it said.  “I can make radical changes to the system and protect
prisoners,” said Tugushi, Georgia’s Public Defender since 2009.  The opposition Georgian Dream condemned the prison abuse
and warned the footage may become “a new element in a smear
campaign,” according to an e-mailed statement that cited former
Foreign Minister Tedo Japaridze.  Manana Abuseridze said at the rally that her brother died
in the Gldani prison in 2010 at the age of 40.  “He told me that they used to beat him up,” she said. “I
fought but no one helped, not even the public defender who was
appointed today. I trust no one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Kirkham at   ckirkham@bloomberg.net  