-- George Michael’s Gallery, Auctions Help AIDS Charity
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-09-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/george-michael-s-gallery-auctions-help-aids-charity.html
If you’re in  Dallas  Saturday night,
you have a chance to look over the shoulder of British artist
Dave White while he paints an American eagle, and then bid on
the work.  The occasion is a fundraiser for the  MTV Staying Alive
Foundation , a London-based charity that supports HIV/AIDS-
related causes. It features live and silent auctions of works
created by about 30 artists just for the night. White, who
designed a swooshless sneaker for Nike, will be the only artist
actually working on his piece during the event.  “Hopefully people will be interested in seeing how the
work comes together,” said White, a Liverpool native.
“Anything I can do for charity and make a difference in
people’s lives is something I like to do often.”  The gala and an accompanying exhibition called
“Re:Define” will be at Dallas’s Goss Gallery, which is run by
the  Goss-Michael Foundation . The nonprofit was founded by pop
singer and art collector  George Michael  and his partner, Kenny
Goss, a Texas native.  The success of last year’s exhibition at Goss, which raised
about $700,000 with works by artists including  Damien Hirst ,
Harland Miller and  Shepard Fairey , persuaded Staying Alive to
make it an annual occasion, Executive Director Georgia Arnold
said by phone.  “Dallas is a hub for real art lovers, and a lot of the
social life in Dallas revolves around art,” said Arnold, who’s
also senior vice president for social responsibility at  Viacom (VIA) 
International Media Networks in  London .  Bloody Portrait  Among Saturday night’s works is an oil painting by Marc Quinn valued at $250,000; he’s known for a self-portrait made
with his own blood. Other artists include German photographer
Juergen Teller, street artist Swoon and Ireland’s  Michael Craig-
Martin .  Phillips de Pury & Co. Chairman Simon De Pury will preside
over the live auction. The public can bid for auction items
 online or by telephone .  Arnold said she hopes the event will remind the art world
that the fight against AIDS isn’t over.  “We’re nearly there, and we can see the finish line,”
Arnold said. “My concern is that because of the drop in funding
for AIDS in recent years, we’re running backwards.”  (The gala is Saturday at the Goss-Michael Foundation, 1405
Turtle Creek Blvd. in Dallas from 7 p.m. to midnight.
Information:  http://mtvredefine.com/show_event_info.php .)  Muse highlights include Lance Esplund and Katya Kazakina on
 art .  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 