-- German Tax Revenue in August Jumps 13% on Year, Ministry Says
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-09-20T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/german-tax-revenue-in-august-jumps-13-on-year-ministry-says.html
German  tax revenue  surged in August
after the country’s manufacturers enjoyed an “unexpectedly
strong” start into the third quarter, the  Finance Ministry  said
in its monthly report.  Tax intake jumped 12.8 percent last month from a year
earlier, the ministry said in Berlin. The increase was led by
types of revenue that fluctuate with the economy’s expansion, it
said, noting also that “special effects” distorted the figure
upward. Revenue in the first eight months rose 5.8 percent from
a year earlier.  “Foreign trade was in robust shape at the beginning of the
third quarter,” benefiting from exchange with countries outside
the European Union, the ministry said. Demand for German
products “still seems to be robust” and  consumer spending  will
probably bolster the economy in coming months, it said.  German industrial production, factory orders and exports
all rose in July. Still, growth slowed in the second quarter and
business confidence has dropped for four straight months as the
debt crisis dents demand for German goods in other euro-area
countries.  “Worsening  business sentiment  over several months suggests
a lessening speed of expansion of the German economy in the
second half,” the ministry said. There’ll be a “certain
weakening of export dynamism” and a “slower pace in the
industry,” it said.  A survey by market researcher  GfK SE (GFK)  showed that consumer
sentiment is still “good” even while there’s uncertainty about
the economic development, the report said. Germans would rather
spend their money at present than save it, it said.  German stocks have risen to a 14-month high since ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said on Sept. 6 that the bank may buy
unlimited amounts of  government bonds  to contain yields in
countries that seek assistance from Europe’s bailout fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  