-- Glencore, Xstrata Said to Meet Separately as Deadline Looms
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-09-21T08:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/glencore-xstrata-boards-said-to-meet-as-takeover-deadline-looms.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  and
 Xstrata Plc (XTA) ’s boards met separately yesterday as a deadline
loomed for Glencore’s 21.9 billion-pound ($35.5 billion)
takeover bid, people familiar with the matter said.  Xstrata, based in Zug,  Switzerland , is due to respond to
Glencore’s revised all-share proposal, the largest this year, by
7 a.m. on Sept. 24. The people who confirmed the meetings asked
not to be identified before a formal announcement.  Glencore, seeking to create the world’s fourth-biggest
mining company, was forced to boost its offer for Xstrata after
investors said they would vote against the initial bid. It
increased its offer on Sept. 7, even as the commodities outlook
dimmed with demand growth in  China  expected to wane further.  Xstrata, the world’s biggest thermal coal shipper, has
discussed with its investors whether provisions intended to
retain managers with intimate knowledge of its mines and other
assets are sufficient or should be altered, according to a
person with knowledge of the talks.  Xstrata rose 0.8 percent to 1,057 pence at 9:13 a.m. in
 London  while Glencore advanced 1.2 percent to 372.5 pence. The
board meetings were first reported by the Financial Times, which
said Xstrata may make an announcement today  Glencore on Sept. 7 raised its all-share offer to 3.05
shares for each of Xstrata’s from 2.8 shares following
opposition from investors including Qatar Holding LLC who said
they would vote against the original bid.  Share Ratio  Xstrata stock traded at 2.84 times that of Baar,
Switzerland-based Glencore. That’s down from 2.85 yesterday, the
highest since talks between the companies were announced Feb. 2.  As part of the revised offer, Glencore Chief Executive
Officer Ivan Glasenberg plans to lead the combined group within
six months of its completion, scrapping the original proposal
that Xstrata CEO  Mick Davis  would hold the position for about
three years.  Xstrata  shareholders   Standard Life Plc (SL/)  and Fidelity
Worldwide Investment objected to $278 million of retention
payments originally proposed for Xstrata executives as part of
the takeover.  Glencore said Sept. 10 it asked Xstrata’s board to consider
if there are any changes it wishes to propose to the payments,
which include 28.8 million pounds in shares of the combined
group to Davis over three years. Glencore said that day it’s
“content” with Xstrata’s request that its senior management
and employees get retention and incentive payments.  Agriculture, Energy  The combination of the two commodity companies would couple
Glencore’s global minerals, agriculture and energy trading
operations and mining assets with Xstrata’s coal, copper and
zinc mines.  Since the February announcement of Glencore’s offer,
commodity prices and sentiment about prospects for resources
have turned negative after growth in China, the biggest metals
consumer, cooled to the slowest pace in three years and the
 European debt crisis  dragged on global growth expectations.  “The boom in commodity prices is over -- no one can deny
it,” Australia’s Resource Minister  Martin Ferguson , presiding
over the biggest exporting nation of  iron ore , coal and alumina,
said last month.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining
company, echoed Ferguson’s comments on Sept. 19 saying it didn’t
expect record commodity prices to be sustained as the  mining
industry  had boosted supply and the pace of China’s economic
expansion had slowed.  A successful acquisition would be the second-largest in the
mining industry, behind Rio Tinto Group’s $38 billion purchase
of Canada’s Alcan Inc. in 2007. Global mining deals swelled to
$98 billion last year, the highest volume since 2007, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, as commodity demand in developing
nations and the deteriorating quality of mineral reserves pushed
producers to seek greater economies of scale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  