-- Goldman Sachs’s Pope Said to Be Leaving Leveraged Loans Post
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-09-20T18:24:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/goldman-sachs-s-pope-said-to-be-leaving-leveraged-loans-post.html
Michael Pope, a managing director
in loan sales at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , is leaving the firm,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  Pope, who joined the bank in 1999, is departing almost two
years after being promoted to the firm’s second-highest ranking
after partners, said the people who declined to be identified
because the move hasn’t been made public. Pope and Tiffany
Galvin, a spokeswoman in New York, declined to comment.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by  assets , has
reduced its staff by almost 10 percent from the end of 2010 as
its revenue from sales and trading declined. Pope joins other
managing directors in corporate debt who have left in the past
12 months, including Courtney Mather, who headed U.S. loan
trading, Buckley Ratchford, who ran global bank loan trading and
distressed investing and Stephen Hickey, who led global
leveraged finance.  The  bank  said in July that it plans to eliminate $500
million from annual expenses, mostly from compensation, after
reporting its lowest first-half revenue since 2005. It employed
32,300 people at the end of June compared with 35,700 in
December 2010, according to the bank’s filings.  Chief Financial Officer David A. Viniar, who will end his
32-year career at Goldman Sachs in January, said on a July 17
conference call with investors that the firm expected to reduce
“people-related” costs by shifting to a “more junior and less
senior weighted head count going forward.”  Harvey M. Schwartz, one of the firm’s three global co-heads
from the sales and trading division, will take over as chief
financial officer, the New York-based bank said on Sept. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  