-- Greek Leaders Struggle With Spending Reductions
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n ,   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-09-20T23:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/greek-leaders-struggle-with-spending-reductions.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras struggled to clinch agreement with his coalition
partners on an 11.5 billion-euro ($14.9 billion) budget-cut
package that’s key to receiving international aid funds.  Samaras was handed the third refusal in less than two weeks
yesterday from Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis and Pasok
leader  Evangelos Venizelos , the junior partners in the coalition
who met to discuss proposed cuts to wages, pensions and
benefits. Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras and the “troika”
of inspectors from the European Commission, the  European Central
Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund  have been locked in
talks for two weeks on carving out savings.  “The troika must stop attacking Greek society,” said
Kouvelis after conferring with Venizelos. “The troika must
understand there are limits.”  The troika, representing the international lenders in
Greece’s bailout package, have already said some of the
reductions don’t go far enough, forcing all parties back to the
negotiating table repeatedly over the past two weeks.  The standoff leaves Samaras heading to meetings in  Rome 
today with his Italian, Spanish and Irish counterparts without
solid domestic political backing on the package he has said is
necessary to restore Greece’s credibility and keep the country
in the euro. Euro area finance ministers are expected to rule on
the budget measures on Oct. 8.  Agreement Sought  A Finance Ministry official said 9.5 billion euros of the
package had been agreed, with 6.5 billion of those related to
cuts in pensions, wages and benefits. An increase in the
 retirement age  to 67 from 65 will bring in 1 billion euros.  Some progress was made in five hours of talks last night,
said the official, who asked not to be identified by name. He
said an agreement may be reached soon, as new proposals to make
up for the shortfall were brought to the table.  The government is seeking to agree with the troika on most
of the spending cuts by Sept. 23. The mission is due to leave
Athens at the end of the week if agreement is not secured by
then and will only return in early October, said the official. A
lower-level technical team will remain in Athens.  Kouvelis, one of the junior partners in the coalition, said
however there was no final agreement on any measures. A new
meeting of the coalition party leaders will be held next week,
he said.  The  Athens stock exchange  erased gains of as much as 3.8
percent after Kouvelis’s statements, with the benchmark general
index closing with gains of 1.4 percent to 763.69.  International Lenders  With the New Democracy party holding 128 of the Greek
Parliament’s 300 seats, Samaras relies on Pasok’s 33 seats and
the Democratic Left’s 17 to secure parliamentary approval of any
pledge made to international lenders.  Samaras is facing opposition from Venizelos and Kouvelis on
across-the-board cuts to pensions and wages, demands to fire
civil servants and changes to labor laws as popular opposition
rises in the fifth year of  recession  with almost a quarter of
the workforce unemployed. All public transit workers walked off
the job yesterday, affecting subway, bus and train services.  Police and firefighters rallied outside the premier’s
residence during the meeting to oppose backtracking by Samaras
on pledges to save their wages from cuts.  Greece ’s two biggest
unions plan to hold a 24-hour general strike on Sept. 26. Today,
tax collectors will walk off the job to protest plans to cut
their salaries.  Agreement Imperative  Agreement on the package from Greek political leaders and
the troika is imperative to allow the release of a 31 billion
euro payment that is designed primarily to recapitalize the
nation’s banks in a bid to boost liquidity in a cash-starved
economy.  Venizelos told reporters after the meeting that the amount
of savings coming from lower pensions, wages and benefits agreed
with the troika was “excessive” and needed to be reduced.  He called for a “total” package to be presented to
parliament including a condition that underpins the formation of
the coalition government: that austerity measures be spread over
four years rather than two.  International lenders to Greece held back funds pledged
under two rescue packages totaling 240 billion euros in the wake
of elections in May and June, which derailed reforms, halted
state-asset sales and stoked concerns about the nation’s future
in the 17-nation euro.  Second Package  European leaders have told Samaras the country must show it
is implementing commitments made earlier this year to secure a
second rescue package before there can be any discussion on
easing the terms of the program. As part of that second package,
private sector investors agreed to take a 53.5 percent loss in
the face value of their Greek bond holdings, reducing the
country’s debt by about 100 billion euros, the largest debt
restructuring in history.  The country’s official lenders are considering taking
losses on the bilateral loans made to Greece as part of the
first aid package granted in May 2010, Financial Times
Deutschland reported yesterday, citing unnamed euro-area
sources. The move, which wouldn’t include the ECB or the IMF
taking losses, would help establish Greece’s debt
sustainability, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  