-- Gulfsands Seeking to Diversify Outside of Mideast, North Africa
-- B y   R o x a n a   Z e g a
-- 2012-09-20T12:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/gulfsands-seeking-to-diversify-outside-of-mideast-north-africa.html
Gulfsands Petroleum Plc (GPX)  plans to
diversify beyond the  Middle East  and North Africa after the U.K.
oil explorer failed to complete acquisitions in the region to
counter the loss of business following the civil war in  Syria .  “Our focus is on the Middle East and North Africa,” the
company said today in its first-half results statement. “We
will look, however, to diversify outside the MENA region.”  After studying more than 50 opportunities in the region and
some countries beyond, Gulfsands said most failed to add value,
would use too much cash or excessively dilute shareholdings.
“In certain cases we have progressed to making offers,” it
said. “But as at the date of writing, we have not progressed
any of these opportunities to a position of certainty.”  Gulfsands stopped exploration and production in Syria in
December after an uprising in the country, and sanctions imposed
on the company’s domestic partner in the Block 26 Production
Sharing Contract. It has 50 percent of the block in northeast
Syria, currently operated by the General Petroleum Corp. The
company has also failed to find a buyer for its maturing oil and
gas assets off Texas and  Louisiana  in the  Gulf of Mexico .  “The group has struggled to attract bids that sufficiently
value the assets,” it said. “The group will continue to
actively market the portfolio and consider other alternate
divestment strategies during the remainder of the year.”  Gulfsands today posted an $8.6 million loss for the first
half after profit of $60.4 million a year earlier, while sales
in the half year collapsed to $2.9 million from $78.6 million.  The company fell 3 percent to 122.25 pence by 12:55 p.m. in
London trading, bringing its loss for the year to 34 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Zega in London at 
 rzega@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  