-- Gunvor Is ‘Major Force’ in Russia After Rosneft Tender Loss
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2012-09-20T17:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/gunvor-to-stay-major-force-in-russia-after-rosneft-tender-loss.html
Gunvor Group Ltd., the energy
trader, remains a “major force” in  Russia  after losing a crude
tender worth about $12 billion from state-run OAO Rosneft, co-
founder and Chief Executive Officer Torbjorn Tornqvist said.  Gunvor lost a bid to buy as much as 15.4 million metric
tons over six months of Rosneft’s crude to Vitol Group,  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  this month. The
company, which relies on crude and oil products for about 95
percent of its trading volumes, was previously awarded such
long-term tenders from Russia’s biggest producer.  “Even if you don’t see us winning crude oil in Rosneft
tenders, we are a major force in Russia now and in the future,”
Tornqvist told reporters today in Moscow. “Our volume of traded
Russian crude oil and products is very high.”  The company, which has trading offices in Geneva and
 Singapore , is seeking to diversify its business from trading
Russian crude. It bought two European refineries this year and
took a stake in a coking coal project in Russia’s Sakha
Republic.  Russian crude and oil products account for more than 25
percent of Gunvor’s trading volumes, Tornqvist said. This may
decline as the company expands globally, he said.  The company is considering the construction of oil
terminals in Singapore and  Africa , Tornqvist said. Gunvor signed
a memorandum of understanding in February to build an oil-
storage facility in Sao Tome and Principe, an island nation off
the west coast of Africa.  European Refineries  Gunvor agreed to buy the 105,000 barrel-a-day Antwerp
refinery in  Belgium  in March, part of a plan to help to expand
its presence in northwest Europe, the region’s oil-trading hub.
The purchase of the 110,000 barrel-a-day Ingolstadt refinery in
southern  Germany  followed in May.  Refining margins in Europe are currently “extremely
good,” he said, adding they will weaken over the next year as
the market remains oversupplied.  “The focus on downstream is difficult to understand as the
European refining industry is going to a dark age,” said Ehsan
Ul-Haq, senior market consultant at KBC Energy Economics in
Walton-on-Thames,  England . “It’s strange to think they can earn
much concentrating on refining.”  Gunvor’s failure to secure the six-month crude tender from
Rosneft may reflect a deterioration in its relationship with the
Russian government, according to Ul-Haq. “There is speculation
they don’t have access to term contracts as the relationship
between the Kremlin and Gunvor might have worsened,” Ul-Haq
said today by phone.  Different Approach  “The Russian market is very important to us but we are
approaching it differently compared to five years ago,”
Tornqvist said. “We tend to buy on the open market because we
feel we can do it much cheaper.”  President  Vladimir Putin , who was honorary head of a judo
club founded by  Gennady Timchenko  in  St. Petersburg , has said he
isn’t involved in the billionaire’s businesses. Timchenko is co-
founder of Gunvor.  The Rosneft tender was worth about $12.1 billion, according
to a Bloomberg calculation based on today’s Urals price of $108
a barrel. It was awarded to Shell, Vitol and Glencore, according
to two traders on Sept. 11, who declined to be identified
because the information is confidential.  Gunvor plans to invest from $600 million to $700 million in
the Kolmar coking coal project in eastern Siberia and about $200
million in port facilities in Russia’s Far East to ship coal to
 Asia , Tornqvist said.  Gunvor’s profit this year will be in the “upper range” of
billionaire business partner Timchenko’s previous estimate from
$300 million to $400 million, with turnover unchanged or higher
than the previous year, Tornqvist said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  