-- Liberty Global’s $2.5B Telenet Deal Add to Europe Growth
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-09-20T20:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/liberty-global-s-2-5b-telenet-deal-add-to-europe-growth.html
  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  offered to buy
the remaining 49.6 percent of  Belgium ’s  Telenet Group Holding NV (TNET) 
for 1.96 billion euros ($2.5 billion), allowing the John Malone-
led cable company more access to  Europe ’s pay-TV growth.  Liberty Global, based in Englewood,  Colorado , said today
that Telenet investors will get 35 euros a share in cash,
according to a statement. The offer is 13 percent higher than
yesterday’s closing price for Mechelen-based Telenet’s shares. A
favorable financial market allowed Liberty to raise money for
the transaction over the past month, Chief Executive Officer
Michael Fries said at a New York investor conference.  The deal gives Liberty Global a bigger foothold in Europe,
where demand for TV, Internet and phone services delivered over
cable is increasing. It follows the company’s acquisitions of
German cable provider Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg for 3.16 billion
euros last year and its larger competitor, Unitymedia, for 3.5
billion euros.  The latest deal will allow Malone, Liberty’s chairman, to
“push for stronger collaboration and synergies with his other
European operations,” said Marc Hesselink, an analyst with ABN
Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “The premium he paid on the Telenet
share is also not excessive, which makes it a good deal.”  While Europe is Liberty Global’s biggest market, the
company also has assets in  Latin America . Its European customers
total 18.4 million. With Telenet’s 2.15 million cable-TV users,
Belgium is Liberty Global’s second-biggest market after  Germany .  ‘An Oddball’  “We are a bit of an oddball,” Fries said in an interview.
“Everyone’s whining about Europe, but we’ve had really good
success. We are in the right markets with the right products at
a time when people need connectivity.”  Demand for cable services in Europe is increasing, with
customers migrating to digital connections from analog. Digital
cable penetration among German households is projected to rise
to 23.7 percent in 2016 from 11.6 percent in 2011, according to
research firm IHS Screen Digest. Total TV, Internet and phone
subscriptions with cable companies in the country are forecast
to rise by 24 percent to 32 million in 2016.  The offer values Telenet at 5.6 times its earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. That compares
with a median multiple of 5.3 for 114 telecommunications deals
in Western Europe in the past year.  ‘Highly Accretive’  “This is a highly accretive deal for our shareholders and
their shareholders,” Fries said. “Now we get access to 100
percent of the  cash flow , whereas before we only got half of
it.”  Telenet shares had advanced 5.5 percent this year through
yesterday. Liberty Global, which currently owns a 50.4 percent
stake in Telenet, rose 0.7 percent to $57.69 at the close in New
York, bringing its year-to-date gain to 41 percent.  Ziggo NV (ZIGGO) , a
Dutch cable company, rose 5.2 percent in Amsterdam.  “There’s never a perfect time, but it seemed like the
right time,” Fries said. Liberty had owned a majority stake in
Telenet since 2007.  Telenet today raised its sales and profit forecasts for
2012, helped by growth in the number of subscribers that use
multiple services such as digital-TV and mobile-phone
connections. Sales will probably rise 7 percent to 8 percent,
compared with a prior range of 5 percent to 6 percent, and
Ebitda growth should match that rate, it said.  The company said it will continue preparing a plan to buy
back an 18.2 percent stake at a price of 31.75 euros a share.
That price was revised down from an initially announced 35 euros
due to a decrease in the company’s capital. The buyback will
take place if Liberty Global doesn’t complete the offer or
doesn’t meet its conditions, Telenet said.  Telenet  gained  67,200 so-called triple-play subscribers,
which use TV, Internet and phone services, in the first half,
bringing the total share to 38 percent of the company’s
customers. That allowed Telenet to boost average revenue per
user 10 percent to 45.10 euros a month.  Liberty Global is being advised by Morgan Stanley and
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  