-- Libertarian Johnson Embraces Spoiler Role on Ballot in 47 States
-- B y   I r a   B o u d w a y
-- 2012-09-20T21:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/libertarian-johnson-embraces-spoiler-role-on-ballot-in-47-states.html
Gary Johnson was governor of  New
Mexico  from 1995 to 2003. He made a name for himself by vetoing
750 bills that didn’t meet his standards for thrift.  Before that, Johnson made a fortune in construction,
starting as a solo Albuquerque handyman in 1974 and selling his
1,000-employee company, Big J Enterprises, for $10 million in
1999. Johnson likes to ski, hike and cycle. He has completed 75
triathlons and climbed Mount Everest while healing from a broken
leg. Also, he is running for president.  While Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  carried the
libertarian flame all the way to the Republican convention this
summer, it’s Johnson, not Paul, who’s on the ballot as the
Libertarian candidate in 47 states --- and making his case in
courts to get on in the remaining three, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Sept. 24 issue.  According to Richard Winger, editor of Ballot Access News,
 Pennsylvania  is likely, Michigan a maybe,  Oklahoma  almost
impossible.  “No other third party is going to come close to that,”
Johnson says.  Johnson, 59, began the race as a Republican. His antiwar,
pro-gay marriage, pro-marijuana legalization message couldn’t
get traction in a primary race led, at one time or another in
the polls, by every other candidate --- except Paul.  ‘Got Excluded’  “I thought it was going to be hard to marginalize two
people talking about the same thing,” says Johnson. “I just got
excluded.” During a Fox News debate he did manage to get into,
Johnson drew applause when he said, “My next-door neighbor’s two
dogs have created more shovel-ready jobs than this current
administration.”  So Johnson became a Libertarian. While the party has no one
in national office, it’s good at getting on ballots.  “They know how hard ballot access is, and they’ve got
people who have been doing it for years,” says Micah Sifry,
author of “Spoiling for a Fight: Third-Party Politics in
America.”  In a recent CNN poll --- one of only a few that have taken
Johnson into account -- 4 percent of registered voters backed
him.  Still, he might get enough votes to affect the outcome in
Colorado, a hotly contested state with a marijuana-legalization
ballot initiative. The  Denver Post  showed him with 3 percent of
the vote and Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  leading President
 Barack Obama  45 percent to 44 percent on Sept. 14.  ‘Beautiful Notion’  Johnson says he draws votes from both candidates, and from
those that “wouldn’t have voted in the first place.” But if
playing spoiler helps him get attention, he’ll be happy for it:
“It’s a beautiful notion.”  On Sept. 18,  New York University ’s student libertarian
 group  invited Johnson to campus, a big stop for the campaign. In
addition to the reporter from the libertarian monthly Reason,
who’s been shadowing Johnson since May and calls himself “the
Johnson press corps,” he had interviews with NPR and Vice
magazine. A camera crew filmed him for a Penn & Teller
television special.  Former  Minnesota  Governor Jesse Ventura, who ran as a
third-party candidate, had been enlisted to help warm up the
crowd. After railing against the  Transportation Security
Administration , whose patdowns the former professional wrestler
called “sexual assault,” the Citizens United Supreme Court
decision on political contributions, the war on drugs, and
electronic voting machines, Ventura finally made his pitch for
Johnson.  “If I see light on the horizon with Gary Johnson, then in
2016 you might get Jesse Ventura,” he said, before bolting to
take the train back to Minnesota.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ira Boudway in  New York  at 
 iboudway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova in Washington at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  