-- Libya Premier Says Pursuing Suspects in U.S. Mission Attack
-- B y   B r i g i t t e   S c h e f f e r   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-09-20T16:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/libya-premier-says-8-arrested-for-consulate-attack-correct-.html
Libya  is pursuing suspects in the
fatal attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi who have fled
abroad and the government is focusing efforts on improving
security, Prime Minister-elect Mustafa Abushagur said.  Abushagur, who was named premier this month, said that
eight Libyan nationals had been arrested in connection with the
assault and that Ansar al-Shariah, an Islamist militia, was one
of the groups thought to be involved. Several suspects are
currently being sought after crossing the border into  Egypt ,
Abushagur said in an interview today in his office in Tripoli,
the capital, vowing that “these crimes will not go
unpunished.”  An attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi on Sept. 11
left four Americans including the ambassador, Chris Stevens,
dead. More than a year since  Muammar Qaddafi  was toppled, Libya
is still mired in political unrest and economic insecurity. The
economy contracted by 61 percent last year as oil production and
exports were disrupted by the rebellion, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  While the country has a “very specific” plan on how to
secure the nation, the government currently is unable to force
militias that played a key role in the uprising to disarm,
Abushagur said. “Security is a top priority for the next three
to six months and 70 percent of our efforts are dedicated to
stabilizing Libya,” he said.  Consulate Arrests  Libyan officials have blamed the consulate attack on
militants taking advantage of unrest stoked by an amateur film
made in the U.S. denigrating the  Prophet Muhammad . The film
sparked protests in several Arab nations, underscoring the
challenge the young governments in the so-called Arab Spring
nations face in ensuring political stability and economic
development while addressing anti-Western sentiment.  Libya’s stability is also threatened by well-armed
militias. The country’s previous government under the National
Transitional Council, which handed over power to the recently
elected General National Congress, was unable to disarm the
groups.  “We are very sorry for the deaths of four American
nationals on our soil,” he said. “Chris Stevens was a great
man and cared for our country.”  Planned Rallies  Abushagur’s comments come a day ahead of planned mass
rallies in the eastern city of Benghazi against the armed
groups. U.S. Deputy Secretary of State  William Burns  is due to
meet him later today in “a show of strength and cooperation
with the Libyans against extremists and others who want to
derail the democratic process,” Abushagur said.  Burns, Abushagur and the Cabinet were due to attend a
memorial service for Stevens and the three other Americans today
in Tripoli.  “We have made concrete efforts to achieve a great deal of
security in the country,” Abushagur said, adding that he was
waiting for the full report on the attack on the consulate and
nearby safe house to which the Americans had fled before their
deaths.  He said authorities believe that as many as 100 people
attacked the consulate, though “only 10 to 15 were carrying
weapons.” Ansar al-Shariah, which advocates the establishment
of an Islamist state in Libya, has denied involvement in the
attack.  Speaking to reporters in Tripoli today, Burns stressed
“the determination of the U.S. to do exactly what Chris Stevens
tried so hard to do, and that is to help Libyans realize the
promise of the revolution and to not allow it to be hijacked by
extremists.”  New Government  Abushagur, 61, moved in the 1970s to the U.S., where he
earned a Ph.D. in electrical engineering at the  California
Institute of Technology . He returned to Libya in March 2011,
working as an adviser to the National Transitional Council. He
was named deputy prime minister in November and was declared the
first elected prime minister-designate in the modern history of
Libya on Sept. 12.  “The new Cabinet has to be formed and presented to the
General National Congress by Sept. 30,” said Abushagur. “There
is a 10-day period to finalize the choice of ministers.”  One critical task facing Abushagur will be to stabilize the
economy, which continues to be affected by unrest and protests.
An air traffic control strike at Tripoli on Sept. 16 forced
airspace over the city to be shut down for roughly a day.  “We want to create a business-friendly environment and
will be reviewing many of the laws that are currently in
place,” said Abushagur.  The IMF projects that economic growth will return in 2012
after oil output rebounded to near pre-war levels following the
fall of Qaddafi. Oil has typically accounted for more than 70
percent of the country’s GDP and roughly 90 percent of
government revenues, according to the organization.  ‘Historic Juncture’  “Libya is at a historic juncture, and the authorities face
the twin challenges of stabilizing the economy and responding to
the aspirations of the revolution,” the IMF said in a May
report. “The short-term challenges are to manage the political
transition, normalize the security situation and exercise budget
discipline while maintaining macroeconomic stability.”  Abushagur said that none of the current Cabinet ministers
were guaranteed jobs in his administration, stressing that “no
minister is indispensable.”  “We need ministers who can perform the job they are
given,” he said.  Abushagur said the new government will focus on providing
basic services to the people, including health care, education
and coping with a dilapidated national infrastructure. It will
also push to diversify the economy away from oil and create a
financial hub for the region, he said.  Libya “has a lot to offer foreign investors and we will
create a good business climate,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brigitte Scheffer in Tripoli at 
 bscheffer@bloomberg.net 
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  