-- IMF Wants Ivory Coast to Resolve Cocoa Problems Before Harvest
-- B y   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u
-- 2012-09-20T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/imf-wants-ivory-coast-to-resolve-cocoa-problems-before-harvest.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
urged  Ivory Coast  to complete cocoa-industry changes and address
shippers’ concerns about supplies of the chocolate ingredient
before the Oct. 1 start of the main harvest season.  A dispute over refundable transportation and handling fees
is yet to be resolved and exporters are worried about actual
bean supplies, Wayne Camard, the IMF’s country representative,
said in an interview in the commercial capital, Abidjan,
yesterday.  Exporters “have no guarantee that the beans stocks they’ve
bought in the electronic auction system will be delivered,”
Camard said. “They’ve expressed several concerns to us.”  Ivory Coast, the world’s top cocoa grower, concentrated
oversight of the industry in a single organization, the Coffee
and Cocoa Council, as part of extensive industry reforms that
were set as a condition by the  World Bank  and the IMF to qualify
for debt relief. In June, the lenders wrote off $4.4 billion of
the country’s debt.  In January, the council introduced a forward-selling
system. So far, 1.1 million metric tons of the 2012-13 crop has
been sold, according to an industry official who declined to be
identified because the information hasn’t been publicly
released. The auctions will continue until the season begins
next month, the official said.  Cocoa Gains  Talks between cocoa exporters and the government about
transportation and handling costs, which are calculated into the
advance buying price, have not yet resulted in an agreement,
Camard said. Agriculture Minister Mamadou Sangafowa Coulibaly
said earlier this year an agreement would be reached before
Sept. 15.  “We’ve spoken with the government,” Camard said. “We’re
hoping that all these problems will be resolved before the start
of the season.”  Government spokesman Bruno Kone said the season will start
in a few days. “Everything is falling into place slowly but
surely,” he said yesterday.  December-delivery cocoa rose 0.6 percent to 1,642 pounds
($2,663) a ton by 6:40 p.m. yesterday in  London  on the NYSE
Liffe exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Baudelaire Mieu in Abidjan at 
 bmieu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  