-- Index of U.S. Leading Indicators Declined in August
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-09-20T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/index-of-u-s-leading-indicators-declined-in-august.html
The index of U.S. leading economic
indicators fell in August, led by a decline in new orders for
manufacturing.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months decreased 0.1 percent after a revised 0.5
percent increase in July, the New York-based group reported
today. Economists projected the gauge would fall by 0.1 percent,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  “The economy is still struggling to gain momentum,” said
 Ryan Sweet , senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania , before today’s report. “We’re getting
mixed messages on its health.”  The  Federal Reserve  last week undertook a third round of
large-scale asset purchases in a bid to stimulate the economy
and reduce joblessness that has held above 8 percent since
February 2009. Weaker  consumer spending  and the looming fiscal
U.S. cliff of tax and government spending changes are dimming
the outlook for U.S. manufacturing. If Congress doesn’t act,
more than $600 billion in automatic tax increases and spending
cuts will take effect starting in January.  “The economy continues to be buffeted by strong headwinds
domestically and internationally,” said  Ken Goldstein , an
economist with the Conference Board. “As a result, the pace of
growth is unlikely to change much in the coming months.”  New orders for manufacturing fell 0.17 percent in August
after a 0.15 percent drop in July. The decline in the leading
index was also driven by weakness in consumer expectations and
the labor market.  Estimates from 51 economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from a decrease of 0.3 percent to an increase of 0.4 percent in
the Conference Board’s leading index.  Decreasing Indicators  Six of the 10 indicators in the index contributed to the
decrease. Four indicators increased, including stock prices.  The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, increased 0.1 percent.  The coincident index tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and
production, measures used by the  National Bureau of Economic
Research  to determine the beginning and end of U.S. recessions.  The gauge of lagging indicators rose 0.2 percent in August
after increasing 0.3 percent the previous month.  Sales of previously owned homes and work on single-family
projects climbed in August to the highest levels in two years.
Purchases of existing houses increased 7.8 percent to a 4.82
million annual rate, the most since May 2010, figures from the
National Association of Realtors showed yesterday in Washington.  Mortgage Rates  Record-low  mortgage rates , more affordable properties and
limited supply of new homes are driving orders at home builders.  The number of Americans who filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  decreased by 3,000 in the week ended Sept.
15 to 382,000, the Labor Department said today in Washington.  Federal Reserve policymakers last week said they would keep
 interest rates  “exceptionally low” at least through mid-2015
and committed to purchasing $40 billion a month in mortgage
debt, their third round of large-scale asset purchases since
2008.  “The idea is to quicken the recovery, to help the economy
begin to grow quickly enough to generate new jobs and to reduce
the  unemployment rate ,” Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a Sept. 13 press conference.  The improvement in housing hasn’t yet been enough to boost
business at cable and telecom companies including  Time Warner
Cable Inc. (TWC)   Time Warner President and Chief Operating Officer Robert Marcus, calling housing growth “modestly positive”, said he is
still looking for stronger overall improvement to the economy.  “The real important economic stats for us in terms of
potential wind at our back really relate to improvements in
occupied housing, improvements in the unemployment stats,
increases in disposable income and increases in  consumer
confidence ,” Marcus said on a Sept. 19 conference call. “To
tell you the truth, we really haven’t seen a whole lot of
meaningful improvement in those stats across our footprint.”  “It’s still pretty tough out there and while I look
forward to the day when the economy is going to provide us with
some fuel for growth, I don’t think we’re quite there yet,”
Marcus said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  