-- Indonesia’s Capital Votes for Leader in Race With National Reach
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-09-20T00:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/indonesia-s-capital-votes-for-leader-in-race-with-national-reach.html
Residents in  Indonesia ’s capital
vote for governor today in a race that may test support for
candidates running for president of Southeast  Asia ’s biggest
economy in 2014.  Fauzi Bowo, the current Jakarta governor backed by
Indonesia’s second-biggest political party, faces challenger
Joko Widodo, the mayor of a city 2,700 kilometers (1,677 miles)
away who has received support from former vice presidential
candidate Prabowo Subianto. Widodo topped Bowo by seven
percentage points in the election’s first round in July.  The contest pits an outsider with a Christian running mate
in a Muslim-majority city against an incumbent with support from
Golkar, the party that former dictator Suharto used to stay in
power for three decades. The winner must govern a metropolis
with 9.6 million  people  that has no mass transit system and lags
behind other regional capitals in quality of life.  “This is a transformational vote for the whole country,”
said Dennis Heffernan, director of Jakarta-based Van Zorge,
Heffernan & Associates, which provides business advice. “If
people all over the country see that with their own voting power
they can overcome the barriers set up by the establishment,
it’ll be an awakening.”  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono , who has led Indonesia
since 2004, can’t run for office again in 2014. Subianto led
Golkar’s presumed presidential candidate and three others in a
July survey of 1,480 respondents in 32 provinces by the Centre
for Strategic and International Studies, The Jakarta Post
 reported .  Roads, Airports  Yudhoyono has pledged to build more roads, ports and
airports to achieve average economic expansion of 6.6 percent by
the end of 2014. In July, the central bank lowered its 2012
growth forecast to about 6.1 percent to 6.5 percent, from a
previous estimate of as much as 6.7 percent.  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  has gained 11 percent this year,
trailing behind benchmarks in  Thailand ,  Singapore  and the
 Philippines , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rupiah
has lost 5 percent in that time, the worst performer among
Asia’s 11 most traded currencies.  The governor race appears tight. Joko led Bowo by less than
one percentage point, according to a  poll  by Indonesia Survey
Institute and Tempo released Sept. 16 that had a margin of error
of plus or minus 5 percent.  Jakarta ranked 181 out of 221 cities for personal safety in
a survey conducted last year by advisory company  Mercer  that
ranked internal stability, crime levels and law enforcement
effectiveness. The city ranked 140 in overall quality of life,
below Singapore,  Kuala Lumpur , Bangkok and  Manila .  About 400 Indonesian protesters clashed with police outside
the U.S. Embassy in Jakarta this week in a demonstration against
an anti-Islam film, throwing rocks and using slingshots. The
city has seen two major terrorist attacks in the past decade,
with bombings at hotels in 2003 and 2009 killing 19 people.  Transit System  Both candidates have pledged to improve the mass transit
system, which has been delayed since studies were first
conducted in the 1980s. Traffic gets so bad that motorists pay
bystanders to join them in car-pool lanes during rush hour.  “The drivers prefer younger children, especially the
female drivers,” Sumardin, a 12-year-old boy who earns about
150,000 rupiah ($12.58) per day riding in cars, said on a recent
morning as he waited for work. “They are scared we will get in
the car and try to rob them, so small children get more
customers.”  PT Mass Rapid Transit Jakarta , a company owned by the city,
plans to award the first construction contract next month for a
$1.8 billion project transit system with more than 110
kilometers of rails, spokesman Manpalagupta Sitorus said in an
e-mailed response to questions on Sept. 14. Traffic congestion
leads to economic losses of about 12.8 trillion rupiah a year,
according to its website.  A proper transportation system may make Jakarta more
attractive to investors, according to Tai Hui, head of regional
research at  Standard Chartered  in Singapore.  “No one wants to hang around Jakarta,” he said. “The
culture is there, the people are nice, but the infrastructure,
the traffic, is just a nightmare. A public transportation system
is long overdue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at  gahlstrand@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  