-- Indonesia to Relax 2014 Ore Ban to Allow Smelter Projects
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2012-09-20T08:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/indonesia-will-relax-2014-ore-ban-to-allow-smelter-construction.html
Indonesia, preparing to ban raw-
metal ore shipments from 2014 while compelling mining companies
to build smelters, will probably allow some exports beyond that
deadline to give more time for processing plants to be built.  “There will be some room,” Deputy Energy and Mineral
Resources Minister Rudi Rubiandini said in an interview in
Jakarta. “It won’t be fully enforced in 2014 as it won’t be
fair to the companies,” he said, declining to be more specific.  The leeway may allow producers such as Phoenix-based
 Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  more time to oversee the
billions of dollars in investments needed to build the capacity
in  Asia ’s largest copper producer after  China . As many as 30
smelters may be built to process nickel, bauxite and  iron ore ,
out of 185 proposals received by the ministry, said Rubiandini.  While “we’re bound by the law,” the ministerial
regulation was issued only this year, Rubiandini said yesterday.
He was referring to the rule on shipments that was issued in
February and became effective from May. That’s more than three
years after the nation’s 2009 Mining Law was passed, and left
only about two years before the 2014 ban was to come into force.  “This is in line with our view of a pragmatic
application” of the 2009 law, Xavier Jean, Singapore-based
associate director of corporate ratings at  Standard & Poor’s ,
said in an e-mail today. “The number of 30 projects that could
be built still looks quite optimistic. Although all of these
projects might be economically feasible, I would suspect a
number of them would be relatively smaller-scale projects.”  Commodity Shipments  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy, where mining accounted
for 12 percent of gross domestic product last year, is striving
to boost the value of commodity shipments to support growth. The
country may surpass  Germany  and the U.K. by 2030 to be the
world’s seventh-largest economy, generating $1.8 trillion in
annual sales for agriculture, consumer and energy companies by
that year, McKinsey & Co. said in a report this week.  The smelters will be clustered in four regions near sources
of so-called primary energy to cut costs, said Rubiandini, who
was a deputy at energy regulator BPMigas before taking up his
current post in June. They are Halmahera Island, Balikpapan in
East Kalimantan, South Sulawesi and East Java, Rubiandini said.  “We can supply gas from Tangguh LNG plant for the smelters
in Halmahera, from Sengkang for Sulawesi and Bontang for the
plants in Balikpapan,” he said, using initials for liquefied
natural gas. Smelters can build powers plant or cooperate with
state utility PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara, Rubiandini said.  Power Demand  Indonesia  may need more than 1 gigawatt of additional
electricity to power the smelters, S&P said in July. The
Indonesia Chamber of Commerce and Industry puts potential demand
at 1.5 gigawatts for at least 40 plants. One gigawatt can supply
769,230 Indonesian households.  “The cluster system would benefit the industry as a whole
as it will likely facilitate economies of scale,” Jean said.
Still, it creates larger so-called event risk than if projects
were scattered as power interruptions would affect the entire
cluster and may result in more frequent supply shocks, he said.  Indonesia banned exports of 32 types of unprocessed metals,
waiving the restriction for companies operating under so-called
mining business licenses that are planning to build local
refineries. Those shipments are subject to a 20 percent tax.  PT Freeport Indonesia, the unit of Freeport-McMoRan that
runs the Grasberg copper mine in Papua, is conducting a study on
the possibility of building a smelter, Investor Daily Indonesia
said on Sept. 18, citing President Director Rozik B. Soetjipto.  New smelting capacity has been discussed in contract talks
with the government, Ramdani Sirait, a spokesman, said today,
declining to comment on the Investor Daily report. Freeport
already owns 25 percent of a smelter in Gresik, East Java.  “Freeport and partners have built a smelter and we must
honor contracts with our buyers,” said Sirait. “But if there
are other smelters in Indonesia and they offer competitive
prices, it’s possible to supply them also.”  Three-month copper has gained 8.6 percent to $8251.25 a
metric ton on the London Metal Exchange this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  