-- Indosat Declines Most in Four Months as Rally Seen Excessive
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2012-09-20T09:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/indosat-declines-most-in-four-months-as-rally-seen-excessive.html
PT Indosat (ISAT) , Indonesia’s second-
biggest mobile-phone operator by revenue, fell the most in four
months in Jakarta trading after its rally since June triggered a
technical indicator to signal the gains were excessive.  Indosat fell as much as 6.6 percent, the steepest intraday
drop since May 15, to 5,650 rupiah before trading at 5,700 at
the 4 p.m. local-time close. The  Jakarta Composite index  lost
0.7 percent. Indosat has risen 30 percent in the past three
months through yesterday driven by a rally in  PT Telekomunikasi
Indonesia (TLKM) , the biggest mobile-phone operator, said Ryan Ariadi
Suwarno, an analyst at PT Kiwoom Securities Indonesia. While
Telekomunikasi’s rally was supported by good earnings, Indosat’s
gains were not, he said.  “Indosat looks overbought,” Ariadi said by telephone in
Jakarta today. “From a technical point of view there should be
a correction.”  Indosat’s 14-day  relative-strength index , a moving average
based on how rapidly prices have advanced or dropped, rose to 72
yesterday. A reading of 70 or above suggests to some investors
the stock is poised to fall. The Jakarta-based company posted a
first-half net loss of 131.8 billion rupiah ($13.8 million)
compared with a net income of 724.5 billion rupiah a year ago.
Indosat’s rally from June pushed it’s valuation to 25.2 times-
estimated earnings, more expensive than the 15.4 multiple of
shares on the  benchmark stock index .  Indosat doesn’t have any information that could explain the
drop in its share price today, Adrian Prasanto, a spokesman at
the company, said in a mobile-phone text message.  “People are selling Indosat because they think the shares
have risen for too long,” Gunawan Sutanto, an analyst at PT
Phillip Securities  Indonesia , said by telephone in Jakarta.
“The stock isn’t in a bearish territory yet but the drop could
mark the end of its bullish trend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at  dboey@bloomberg.net  