-- Insurers Pressed to Take Lead in Tempering Climate Risk
-- B y   S u s a n n a   P a k   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-09-20T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/insurers-pressed-to-take-lead-in-tempering-climate-risk.html
U.S. property-casualty insurers, a
group that includes  Travelers Cos. (TRV)  and  Allstate Corp. (ALL) , should
take a leadership role in preparing for climate-change risks as
severe weather becomes more frequent, a lobbying group said.  “Insurers have historically been influential in motivating
society to reduce risks, whether by advocating for smoke
detectors in buildings or safety restraints in vehicles,”
Boston-based Ceres said today in a report. “Insurers have much
to offer, and much at stake, in helping governments and private
markets to further understand and develop solutions to better
predict and prevent losses from extreme weather events.”  Ceres recommended that insurers support research on weather
patterns, work with planners to improve buildings, bridges and
other projects and promote awareness of  carbon emissions . It
urged investors to press insurers for more information on
climate-related risk. Ceres is a lobbying group representing
investment funds, environmental organizations and groups that
promote social responsibility.  Hurricanes, tornadoes and other weather events cost U.S.
insurers more than $32 billion in 2011, Ceres said, citing data
from ISO, a unit of Verisk Analytics Inc. Insurers have been
further hurt by lower investment yields and a sluggish economy,
the group said.  “Beyond just declining profitability and returns, these
increasingly visible trends could undermine some insurer’s
ability to manage and, in some cases, even survive, future
catastrophic, weather-related loss events,” Ceres said.  Costliest Year  Earthquakes and other catastrophes made 2011 the costliest
year ever for natural disasters, with economic losses worldwide
of about $380 billion, Ceres said, citing data from  Munich Re .  Travelers, the lone insurer in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average , raised rates after tornadoes struck parts of Alabama,
Missouri and Massachusetts last year. Allstate, the largest
publicly traded U.S. home and auto insurer, boosted prices as it
bought reinsurance and avoided high-risk regions.  “We used to think about Tornado Alley and that was
everyone’s measure of those areas of the United States that were
deeply tornado exposed,” Travelers Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Jay Fishman said in a conference call on Sept. 11.
“We’re now becoming increasingly impressed with the exposure”
in other areas.  Tornado Alley stretches from central  Texas  to northern
 Iowa , and from central  Kansas  and  Nebraska  to western  Ohio ,
according to the  National Climatic Data Center .  Catastrophe Regions  Last year’s events drove economic and insured losses away
from geographic areas typically associated with catastrophes,
Ceres said. Eight U.S. states had insured losses of between
$1.25 billion and almost $4 billion, the group said, citing ISO.  “We’re not looking at an industry right now that’s
financially challenged, but given significant catastrophic
events, that could start to change,” Mike Kreidler, insurance
commissioner for the state of Washington, said in a Sept. 18
telephone interview.  Fishman said in December that his company needed to raise
prices to account for tornado risk, regardless of the reason for
the increase in claims from twisters.  “We are not meteorologists and we are not making any
particular statement about  climate change ,” he said at a
conference sponsored by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Allstate CEO Tom Wilson also addressed higher levels of
natural disaster-related expenses. The insurer didn’t know if
the surge in weather-related claims was tied to global warming,
Wilson said in April 2011.  “But we’re acting as if this will be permanent and we need
to recover those costs,” he said.  Arctic sea ice on Sept. 16 shrank to its lowest ever in a
satellite record stretching back 33 years, the U.S.  National
Snow and Ice Data Center  said Sept. 19. The shrinking Arctic ice
cap is one of the most visible signs of climate change,
according to NSIDC Director Mark Serreze.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanna Pak in  New York  at 
 spak10@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ; 