-- International Renewables Agency Hires Masdar Power Head Wouters
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-09-20T14:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/international-renewables-agency-hires-masdar-power-head-wouters.html
The  International Renewable Energy
Agency  appointed as deputy director general Frank Wouters,
formerly head of the power unit at  Abu Dhabi ’s government-owned
low-emissions project Masdar.  Wouters started in the role this month, according to the
website of the agency, known as IRENA. Abu Dhabi, capital of the
 United Arab Emirates  and holder of about 6 percent of global oil
reserves, won the right to host IRENA in June 2009 after it
embarked on the $22 billion Masdar project and set a goal to
generate 7 percent of its power from renewable sources by 2020.  Masdar, planned as the showpiece of Abu Dhabi’s pursuit of
alternative energy, delayed projects, cut costs and staff and
faced resignations of senior officials as the venture revised
plans to create a city powered by solar plants and other sources
not producing polluting emissions.  The company cut 9 percent of its workforce in 2011 after
reviewing the business and, in 2010, said it would build  Masdar
City  in stages, with the first phase delayed by two years to
2015. The city, which houses a graduate university and several
shops, is set to be open to private residents by 2015 and won’t
be fully completed until 2025, according to its website. IRENA,
which planned to set up offices in Masdar City on the outskirts
of Abu Dhabi, is now headquartered in the center of the capital.  IRENA aims to promote cooperation and sharing of
information on renewable energy issues and technologies among
governments, companies and citizens, according to its website.
Masdar didn’t have an immediate comment on Wouters’ departure
when contacted today. Wouters was in a meeting and not available
when called at his office at IRENA today.  During his tenure as director of the Masdar Power unit,
Wouters led implementation of electricity projects worth more
than $3 billion, including two solar plants in Abu Dhabi, three
in  Spain  and a stake in the London Array wind project.  Masdar Institute of Science and Technology ’s Provost  John
Perkins  resigned in July 2010 after a year heading the joint
project with the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology . Tariq
Ali, the institute’s head of research, left the same year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net . 