-- Iran Denies Syrian Troop Presence as Kerry Warns Iraq on Aid
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-09-20T13:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/iran-denies-syrian-military-presence-as-kerry-warns-iraq-on-aid.html
Iran  denied it has a military
presence in  Syria  after  John Kerry , chairman of the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee, signaled that  Iraq  should block
supplies to the government of Bashar al-Assad or risk
restrictions on U.S. aid.  While Iran has some military-related personnel in Syria and
Lebanon, this is comparable to the “military-related personnel
of other countries present in our country,” Defense Minister
Ahmad Vahidi said, according to the Iranian Students News
Agency. Under the 1961  Vienna Convention , countries can station
some military personnel at diplomatic missions.  Kerry told a Senate nomination hearing for the proposed
U.S. ambassador to  Baghdad  yesterday that he was alarmed Iraq
had not responded to repeated U.S. requests to block Iranian aid
to Assad. Iraq is situated between the two countries.  “Maybe we should make some of our assistance or some of
our support contingent on some kind of appropriate response,”
the former U.S. Democratic presidential candidate said. “It
just seems completely inappropriate that we’re trying to help
build their democracy, support them, put American lives on the
line, money into the country and they’re working against our
interest so overtly -- against their interests too.”  Closest Ally  Iran is Assad’s closest ally and the two countries are
linked by a 2006 military cooperation agreement. U.S. Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  last month accused Iran of training a new
militia force drawn from the minority Shiite and Alawite
communities to bolster Assad’s government in its 18-month civil
conflict.  Kerry yesterday referred to remarks from Major General
Mohammad Ali Jafari, head of Iran’s Revolutionary Guards, which
he characterized as acknowledging “that Iran is providing
assistance and training to groups inside Syria.”  Jafari was reported by the official  Islamic Republic News
Agency . on Sept. 16 as saying his men “provide economic
support” in Syria short of a military presence. The next day,
Lebanon asked Iran for an official explanation of Jafari’s
suggestion that his men were also in that country.  Iraq has told the U.S. it won’t allow anyone to use its
territory or airspace for weapons shipments and that it closely
examines cargo manifests to ensure this, Robert Beecroft, the
nominee to be the next U.S. ambassador in Iraq, told the Senate
hearing.  ‘Face Value’  “They’re taking the manifests at face value,” he said.
“We’re pressing them to have the aircraft -- either disapprove
the flights or have them land and be inspected which is their
right to do.”  The opposition Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights  said at
least 110 people were killed or wounded after government
aircraft attacked a petrol station in Reqqa. At least 73 people
have been killed elsewhere so far today, 26 of them in Homs, the
opposition Local Coordination Committees in Syria said.  Syrian state television today reported that a helicopter
crashed near the capital Damascus. The U.K.-based Observatory
said the aircraft was downed by the rebels, while Syria’s
Information Ministry said it came down after its rotors brushed
the tail of a Syrian Air plane carrying 200 passengers, state
television reported. It said the plane landed in Damascus
safely.  More than 26,000 have died since the conflict began,
according to the Observatory’s estimates.  Assad’s sister Bushra, whose husband Assef Shawkat was
killed in a July bomb explosion, is moving to  Abu Dhabi  to
ensure her children are educated in a “secure atmosphere,” the
pro-Syrian al-Diyar newspaper said today, without saying where
it got the information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  