-- Iranians Denied U.S. Visas Hit by Political Crossfire
-- B y   D a n i e l   G o l d e n
-- 2012-09-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/iranians-denied-u-s-visas-hit-by-political-crossfire.html
A promising future in academia and
business beckoned Majid Abbasi. His research on how welding
affects the properties of steel earned him a doctorate from
 Brigham Young  University and a job offer from the  University of
Alabama . He was also seeking to patent and commercialize a
technique he’d invented to improve cleaning of  contact lenses .  Then he made a fateful move that shattered those prospects:
he visited his parents.  Since Abbasi went home to Iran on vacation in December, the
U.S. government has barred him from returning. The State
Department twice denied him visas, saying it had reason to
believe he would engage in espionage, sabotage or prohibited
export of sensitive information. Alabama withdrew its offer.
Because of U.S. sanctions on trade with Iran, the startup that
licensed his contact lens concept can’t pay him.  “My first reaction was the famous American slang: Holy
Cow, seriously? I’m a scientist and avoid politics,” Abbasi,
31, wrote in an e-mail. “Sabotage, espionage, technology
transfer are baseless, unfair labels. I do not appreciate such
labels.”  Abbasi’s work isn’t sensitive, faculty members at Alabama
and Brigham Young said.  “Majid was a gem everyone in the department knew and
enjoyed being around,” said Tracy Nelson, a professor of
mechanical engineering at Brigham Young.  No Visas  As growing tensions and sanctions over Iran’s nuclear
program spill into academia, Abbasi’s plight is becoming more
common. At least half a dozen Iranian graduate students in
engineering who were slated to attend universities such as
Michigan State, Southern Illinois, South Carolina, Pittsburgh
and Northwestern this year couldn’t come because the U.S.
rejected their visa applications under the same espionage
clause,  Bloomberg News  has found.  The visa denials run counter to the policy of the Obama
administration, which has reached out to Iranian students and
has said that its sanctions are designed to hurt Iran’s regime,
not its people. The U.S. eased travel restrictions for some
Iranian students in May 2011, and opened a “ virtual embassy ”
in Tehran in December to foster communication. Enrollment of
Iranian graduate students at U.S. universities more than tripled
to 4,696 in 2010-2011 from 1,475 in 2004-2005, according to the
 Institute of International Education  in New York.  More Barriers  “You -- the young people of Iran -- carry within you both
the ancient greatness of Persian civilization and the power to
forge a country that is responsive to your aspirations,”
President  Barack Obama  said in a March 2011 message marking the
Iranian New Year. “Your talent, your hopes, and your choices
will shape the future of Iran, and help light the world. And
though times may seem dark, I want you to know that I am with
you.”  Now, more Iranian students are likely to face further
barriers to entering the U.S. under legislation Obama signed
last month. It ordered the Secretary of State to deny visas to
any Iranians seeking to take coursework to prepare for careers
in Iran’s energy industry, nuclear science, nuclear engineering
or a related field.  The Senate Banking Committee drafted the provision.
Chairman  Tim Johnson , a South Dakota Democrat, “wanted to make
sure we weren’t inadvertently allowing technology or knowledge
transfer” that could undercut U.S. sanctions prohibiting
assistance to Iran’s oil industry and nuclear program, committee
spokesman Sean Oblack said.  The State Department approved the restriction, said Jamal
Abdi, policy director of the National Iranian American Council,
an advocacy group in Washington.  ‘Upper Hand’  “There’s a tug of war inside the State Department between
supporters of outreach to the Iranian people and those who want
to broaden sanctions,” Abdi said. “The new law suggests that
the sanctions advocates have gained the upper hand.”  Tensions have been building between the U.S. and Israel
over a possible Israeli strike on suspected Iranian nuclear
weapons facilities. The visa denials likely reflect both
classified intelligence information and concerns that students
could pose a danger in the event of war with Iran, said  Fred
Burton , a former State Department special agent focused on
Iranian terrorism.  “If you think about the saber rattling and war footing
that everybody’s discussing, you want to minimize the
probability of attacks here domestically,” said Burton, now
vice president of intelligence for geopolitical consulting firm
Stratfor in Austin, Texas.  Talented Pool  American universities are eager to tap Iran’s students,
many of whom excel in science and math. Iran finished eighth
among 100 nations in the 2012  International Mathematical
Olympiad , a math championship for high school students.
Presidents of half a dozen universities including  Carnegie
Mellon , Rice and the University of Florida visited Iran in late
2008 to foster academic ties.  Of 23 new Iranian graduate students whom the University of
Florida expected to enroll this semester, only 16 have shown up,
University of Florida President Bernie Machen said. The other
seven may have been denied visas, or have had difficulty
transferring funds from Iran because of the sanctions, he said.  Iranian students are “a pool of very talented young people
who desire further education in this country,” especially in
science, engineering and math, Machen said. “We’re
disappointed. Politics trumps education in this case.”  An Iranian this year won a Northwestern University
fellowship for outstanding first-year graduate students in
mechanical engineering, only to be refused a visa. His admission
has been deferred, university spokeswoman Pat Tremmel said.  Espionage Operations  At the same time, Iranian espionage increasingly worries
federal authorities.  “Iran’s intelligence operations against the United States,
including cyber capabilities, have dramatically increased in
recent years in depth and complexity,” James R. Clapper,
director of National Intelligence, testified before Congress in
January.  The Obama administration is also facing political pressure
from Congress and Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney 
to crack down on Iran.  “From Day One in 2009, Congress has been coming at the
administration like a steamroller on Iran-related issues in an
effort to box us in,” said  Reza Marashi , a former officer on
the State Department’s Iran desk and now research director of
the National Iranian American Council.  Romney’s Call  On Sept. 9, Romney called for “crippling sanctions” and
criticized what he called Obama’s “policy of engagement” with
Iran. “That policy has not worked, and we’re closer to a
nuclear weapon as a result,” Romney said.  No Iranian students have been criminally prosecuted in the
past five years for exporting restricted U.S. technology or
munitions to Iran, according to the  Justice Department . It
declined to comment on whether any investigations are under way
for export or espionage violations involving Iranian students.  Once in the U.S., Iranian students generally may only work
on fundamental research that is publishable or in the public
domain. They typically aren’t eligible for licenses that
foreigners need to conduct weapons-related research under
federal rules on arms traffic.  The State Department’s Bureau of Consular Affairs refused
visas to 262 non-immigrants worldwide under Section
212(a)(3)(A)(i) of the  Immigration and Nationality Act  in fiscal
2011, up from 101 in 2010 and 13 in 2000, according to the State
Department.  Appeals Difficult  The provision states that the consular officer “knows or
has reasonable ground to believe” that the alien seeks to enter
the U.S. to “engage solely, principally, or incidentally in any
activity” to violate U.S. law related to espionage, sabotage or
prohibited export of “goods, technology or sensitive
“information.”  Protected by a long-standing legal doctrine
known as consular non-reviewability, denials are hard to appeal.  Consular officers “are erring on the side of caution,
maybe if they have an inkling of a doubt,” said Marashi. “When
elephants fight, it’s the grass that gets trampled.”  Not all of the people turned away are Iranian. A Chinese
graduate student admitted to  Carnegie Mellon University  in
Pittsburgh in 2010 was denied a visa for the same reason, said
Linda Gentile, director of the school’s office of international
education.  Denials are based on “all the information we have
available to us” after extensive reviews by federal agencies,
said State Department spokeswoman Elizabeth Finan, who declined
to discuss individual cases. “If we’re denying the visa for
that reason, it’s necessitated because of the evidence.”  Visa applicants from Iran warrant special attention if
their academic pursuit appears on a U.S government list of
“critical fields” used in developing weapons of mass
destruction, according to a State Department manual.  Interview Questions  Consular officers “are not expected to be versed in all
the fields on the list,” the manual states. “Rather, you
should shoot for familiarization and listen for key words or
phrases from the list in applicants’ answers to interview
questions.”  When Ali Moslemi was a graduate student in mechanical
engineering at  Southern Methodist University  in Dallas, he went
home on vacation in December 2009. He had to wait 10 months
before his visa to return to the U.S. was granted. He earned his
doctorate in 2010 and works in the oil industry in Houston.  Authorities may have held up his visa because he was
researching propulsion, Moslemi said. While the U.S. stopped
releasing the alert list about a decade ago, the last publicly
available versions identified rocket propulsion technologies as
a critical field. Moslemi, though, was working on a type of
propulsion known as pulse jet, which occurs in heartbeats and in
the swimming of squid and jellyfish, not in rockets, he said.  ‘Dangerous Guy’  “It wasn’t military but it had the word propulsion,” said
Moslemi, president of the  Iranian Students and Graduates
Association in the United States . Consular officials “are not
technical people. If there’s a match, they say, ‘He’s a
dangerous guy.”’  Iran was the leading foreign source of students at U.S.
universities in the 1970s before the Islamic revolution that
brought the current regime to power. The influx peaked at 51,310
in 1979-1980, triple the number from the second-biggest
supplier, Taiwan. Some returned to Iran and became professors,
who now guide their students to the U.S.  After the 1979 revolution, the number of students from Iran
dwindled. Today, while Iranian undergraduates remain scarce in
the U.S., the graduate-student population has rebounded,
especially in the sciences.  Brain Drain  Iran ranked seventh among countries sending graduate
students to the U.S. in 2010-2011, up from 26th in 2004-05. The
 University of California  enrolled 255 Iranian graduate students
in 2011, up from 29 in 1999.  Outdated lab equipment and disillusion with the repressive
regime drive the exodus of Iranian science graduate students.
They’re also drawn by U.S. universities’ lofty reputation and
financial support for graduate study, students said. Once they
finish their degrees, they often seek jobs here rather than
return to Iran.  The Iranian government doesn’t mind the brain drain of
potential dissidents, said  Mohsen Milani , an Iranian-born
professor of politics at the  University of South Florida  in
Tampa.  “The thinking is, ‘We have a large reservoir of brilliant
students,”’ Milani said. “If we lose a few of them, that’s
okay. That means less trouble internally.”  Mostafa Rahmani, director of the  Interests Section of the
Islamic Republic of Iran  in Washington, didn’t respond to
written questions.  Multiple Entry  The Obama administration tried to help Iranian students
last year. Responding to complaints from Iranian-American groups
that students couldn’t risk going home for weddings or funerals
because they had to reapply to enter the U.S., it introduced a
two-year, multiple-entry visa in May 2011 for Iranian students
whose research isn’t sensitive or technical.  Obama personally approved the change, said Marashi, the
former Iran desk officer at the State Department.  Announcing the multiple-entry visa, Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  told students, “As long as the Iranian
government continues to stifle your potential, we will stand
with you. We will support your aspirations, and your rights.”  Multiple-entry visas are granted sparingly. Less than one-
fourth of Iranian students at U.S. universities receive them,
with the rest on single-entry status, according to an April 2012
survey by the student association headed by Moslemi.  U.S. Priority  Alan Eyre , the State Department’s Persian language
spokesman, sought to reassure Iranian students last month.  U.S.
foreign policy  “has nothing to do with granting or denying
visas,” he said on Voice of America’s Persian Service.  “One of the priorities of the U.S. government is to make
it easier and faster for Iranian students to come to the U.S.
and continue their studies,” Eyre said.  Not so for Arash Khajeh. When the University of South
Carolina offered him a full scholarship in its  mechanical
engineering  Ph.D. program, he sought a visa at the U.S. embassy
in Tashkent, Uzbekistan. Iranians travel to Dubai, Turkey,
Armenia and elsewhere for visa interviews because the U.S.
doesn’t have a consulate in Iran.  “I have been looking for a talented and motivated
researcher,” Addis Kidane, assistant professor of mechanical
engineering at South Carolina, wrote to the embassy. “His
research is open to non-U.S. citizens.”  Khajeh’s visa was denied under the espionage clause. Hoping
to get a visa from another embassy, Khajeh, 29, deferred his
enrollment at South Carolina until next semester, he said.  Permanent Vacations  Other Iranians already attending American universities have
taken vacations home that turned out to be permanent. After
obtaining his visa at the U.S. embassy in Ankara and entering
 Michigan State University  in 2009 as a  graduate student  in
mechanical engineering, Saleh Rezaei Ravesh maintained a 4.0
grade-point average, according to university administrators. His
research, partly funded by  NASA , involved developing software to
simulate turbulent flows in problems such as weather
forecasting.  Ravesh practiced a traditional Iranian musical instrument,
the santour, which is a Persian dulcimer, and gave a concert on
campus. He also sympathized with the Arab Spring uprisings and
attended rallies celebrating rebel victories over the late
Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi , according to lab mate Husam
Abdulrahman, a Libyan-American.  “He liked freedom,” Abdulrahman said.  ‘Absolute Nightmare’  Last December, Ravesh went home to see his ailing mother.
Farhad A. Jaberi, a Michigan State professor and native of Iran,
tried to dissuade Ravesh, who worked in his lab, because he
feared visa problems might delay the student’s return. While
Ravesh’s research couldn’t be used to design actual engineering
systems, some terminology could be misconstrued as sensitive,
Jaberi said.  Ravesh, 28, hasn’t been able to come back. After the U.S.
consulate in Dubai denied him a visa under the espionage clause,
he tried Tashkent, where the consular officer rejected him on
the spot without giving a reason, Ravesh said. He had an
interview in Ankara July 19, and is waiting for a decision. His
belongings, including his santour, remain in the U.S.  “It has been an absolute nightmare and overwhelming stress
for me, my wife and the rest of my family,” he said.  If he cannot leave Iran by the end of 2012, he is likely to
face compulsory military service, he said. He’s barred from
working in Iran until those duties are completed, he said.  Ravesh “is not an espionage type of guy,” said Peter
Briggs, director of Michigan State’s office for international
students and scholars. “It’s not like Mata Hari.”  Research Sponsored  Majid Abbasi, the Brigham Young scientist, is also back in
Iran, unemployed. After earning his master’s degree from  Sharif
University of Technology , Iran’s premier engineering school, he
arrived at Brigham Young in 2006. Several companies and the
 National Science Foundation  sponsored Abbasi’s research on
welding and joining, which was a significant contribution to the
field, said Nelson at Brigham Young.  Gregory Thompson, a professor of metallurgical and
materials engineering at the University of Alabama, offered
Abbasi a post-doctoral appointment starting in March 1, 2012.
While Thompson also conducts research for the  Department of
Defense , Abbasi would have worked on fundamental science funded
by the university, Thompson said.  Abbasi, who enjoyed mountain biking and snowboarding, found
the contact lenses he wore for those activities irritated his
eyes. Using a microscope he modified to examine his own lenses,
he developed a method of cleaning lenses. He and two others are
seeking a patent.  ‘Red Flags’  “He’s primarily the science behind the device,” says co-
applicant Jacob Allred, who was in Abbasi’s research group at
Brigham Young.  Then Abbasi, who hadn’t seen his parents for more than five
years, decided to go home for two months.  Nelson and Allred warned him against it. “I said, ‘Majid,
I think that’s a bad idea,”’ Nelson said. “My feeling was, if
you go home for a month or two, and come back, it looks bad. It
looks like you’re taking information in and out. Or the
government thinks you’re meeting with someone over there.”  After the U.S. consulate in Beirut denied his visa on April
16, Alabama couldn’t wait for Abbasi any longer. Nelson then
invited him to return to Brigham Young as a post-doctoral
fellow. Abbasi’s visa application was again rejected on Aug. 1.  U.S. sanctions against Iran prohibit Abbasi from playing
any role in Soniclenz LLC, a company established by Allred and a
business partner, which licensed the contact lens invention and
is developing a prototype.  “We have asked Majid to participate” in the company as
soon as it’s allowed, said Allred, an engineer with Exxon Mobil
Corp. “I’ve done things with Majid personally, academically and
in business. None of them raise any red flags.” 