-- Iraq’s Kurds Say Crude Exports Rise to 140,000 Barrels a Day
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-09-20T09:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/iraq-s-kurds-say-crude-exports-rise-to-140-000-barrels-a-day.html
Iraq ’s northern Kurdish area is
exporting 140,000 barrels of crude a day and will raise daily
shipments to 200,000 barrels next year, according to the prime
minister of the self-governing region.  The rise in exports follows a deal last week with the
federal government in  Baghdad  which also allows for the supply
of 147,000 barrels a day of oil products to the semi-autonomous
region, Nechirvan Idris Barzani said in remarks published today
on the official website of the Kurdistan Regional Government.
The federal government also agreed to make payments owed to the
Kurdish region for many years, he said, without elaborating.  Crude exports from the Kurdish region were halted earlier
this year in a dispute over payments relating to international
 oil companies  operating in the area. Shipments resumed at a
reduced rate in August in a move that the KRG described as a
“goodwill initiative.”  An accord was reached to end the dispute on Sept. 13, Ashti Hawrami, the Kurdistan authority’s natural resources minister,
said the next day. The government in Baghdad agreed to pay
international oil companies working in the region 1 trillion
Iraqi dinars ($858 million) this week, he said.  The federal government and the Kurdish authorities have
formed a committee to discuss lingering conflicts on oil revenue
sharing and payments, Barzani said. The Kurds hope that the
Sept. 13 agreement would help the two sides reach a much-awaited
accord on a new energy law, he said.  Iraq holds the fifth-biggest crude reserves, according to
data from  BP Plc (BP/)  that include  Canadian oil sands . The government
is seeking investment and expertise to boost oil output and
sales after years of conflict and sanctions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  