-- Lithuanian Election Leader Vows to Delay ‘Unrealistic’ Euro Goal
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2012-09-20T09:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/lithuanian-election-leader-vows-to-delay-unrealistic-euro-goal.html
The Lithuanian opposition party
that leads polls before next month’s election said it will delay
the Baltic nation’s euro-adoption plan if it heads the next
government.  Joining the euro area is “unrealistic” in 2014 and should
happen one or two years later, according to Algirdas Butkevicius, head of the  Social Democrats . The party, which led
Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius’s Homeland Union by 10
percentage points in a July survey, would remain fiscally
responsible and keep the goal to narrow next year’s fiscal
deficit to 2.5 percent of  gross domestic product , he said.  “The euro area must solve its own problems,” Butkevicius
said Sept. 18 in an interview in the capital, Vilnius. “What’s
the rush now for us to pay for their bailouts when it’s been
obvious since at least 2004 that  Greece  had to take measures to
avoid bankruptcy?”  Kubilius, who defeated the Social Democrats four years ago,
pushed through wage cuts and tax increases equivalent to 12
percent of GDP in 2009 and 2010 after  Lehman Brothers Inc .’s
collapse triggered the European Union’s second-deepest
recession. While GDP grew at the EU’s second-fastest rate after
 Estonia  last year, unemployment has doubled since the crisis and
the emigration rate is the bloc’s highest.  Investors have welcomed  Lithuania ’s austerity measures,
which brought the  budget shortfall  to 5.5 percent of economic
output in 2011 from 9.4 percent in 2009, rewarding it with
record-low borrowing costs. The yield on the government’s dollar
bond due 2022 fell to 3.48 percent today, the lowest since it
was sold in January.  ‘No Revolution’  “Lithuania won’t follow the same path Greece,  Italy  or
 Portugal  did,” Butkevicius said. “There will be no revolutions
in the budget. Taxes won’t change -- there’s a need for
stability to maintain the trust of investors.”  The cost of insuring state debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps was 154 basis points, the
seventh-lowest of 15 eastern European nations Bloomberg tracks.  Support for the Social Democrats surged to 17.9 percent in
a July 20-29 survey by Spinter Tyrimai for the Delfi online news
service, up from 14.2 percent the previous month. That makes
them favorites to lead the formation of a governing coalition
after the Oct. 14 ballot.  Kubilius’s party, under whom the  unemployment rate  jumped
to 18.3 percent in 2010 from 3.9 percent in 2007, ranked fourth
with 7.7 percent backing. The poll had a margin of error of 3.1
percentage points. The jobless rate was 13.3 percent in the
second quarter of this year.  ‘Own Problems’  Among policies to boost state coffers, the Social Democrats
propose improved tax collection, a crackdown on benefits abuse,
a wider scope for real estate taxes and a 5,000 litai ($1,888)
cap on cash transactions to help rein in the shadow economy.
This includes  tax evasion , cigarette and alcohol smuggling and
illegal employment and is equal to 26 percent of GDP, according
to Lithuania’s Free Market Institute.  “Budgets shouldn’t be all about austerity,” said
Butkevicius, who served as finance minister in 2004-2005.  To stimulate economic growth, the Social Democrats propose
improving  energy efficiency , which would cut heating costs and
create jobs. Using EU funds to switch to biomass energy would
help achieve those goals and lower the former Soviet republic’s
dependence on Russian natural gas, according to the party.  ‘Rioting’ Worry  “As a politician, I’m anxious about the next heating
season,” Butkevicius said. “Prices now are cosmic in relation
to people’s incomes and pensions. With prices rising another 20
percent this season, I’m worried people may start marching in
the streets and we’ll see something close to rioting.”  After years of austerity, Butkevicius wants higher wages
for policemen, nurses and customs officers who make below than
1,500 litai a month, less than three quarters of the 2,154 litai
national average. That would help stem emigration, he said.  About 53,900 Lithuanians left the country in 2011, while
15,700 returned, the statistics office said in March. Eighty-two
percent of the emigrants were unemployed for a year or more
before leaving.  The spending cuts and tax increases pushed Lithuanian
inequality to the EU’s highest level, with the proportion of
people at risk of poverty surging to the biggest among the
bloc’s 27 members, according to Eurostat.  “I’d like to raise salaries for the lowest earners a tiny
bit at least, so that people would have some hope and trust in
the state,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  