-- ITune World Is No Place for Scratchy 45’s
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-09-20T21:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/itune-world-is-no-place-for-scratchy-45-records.html
Director  Ridley Scott  found a new
muse for his next thriller: Japan’s earthquake-devastated
northeast.  “ Japan in a Day ” opens the Tokyo International Film
Festival next month, and many anticipate that the documentary
charting Japan’s recovery from natural disaster will lift
spirits and revive a sense of purpose among the nation’s 127
million people.  Hollywood disaster flicks have nothing on March 11, 2011.
Tsunami waves as high as 133 feet left more than 19,000 dead or
missing, wiped out whole towns and caused the worst
nuclear crisis since Chernobyl. Coastal Japan’s apocalyptic
backdrops shame Tinseltown’s best set designers.  Yet the director of “ Blade Runner ” and “Alien” may be
presenting more fiction than science in his portrayal of Japan’s
recovery. That isn’t the popular line in the local media -- or
Hollywood. Yes, there are notable examples of local leaders
trying to revitalize communities, and activists demanding
reduced use of nuclear power. What’s most surprising about Japan
18 months after the biggest earthquake ever recorded in the
country is how little has changed.  It is worth examining some of the myths about the recovery
and explain why so little has come to fruition. Here are five.  One, growth will boom because of reconstruction. Let’s
count the ways this one fell flat: rebuilding has been slow;
deflation is deepening; debt is rising;  interest rates  are
locked at zero; a strong yen is hammering exporters (exports
fell 5.8 percent in August from a year earlier); women are
struggling for career advancement; and the health of companies
still trumps that of families.  Gone Wrong  What went wrong? To be fair, much of the pain stems from
the awful state of the world economy --  Europe ’s debt crisis,
America’s funk and China’s slowdown (Japan’s shipments to China
plunged 9.9 percent last month). Yet blame must go to the
absence of new ideas, political will and, most unforgivable of
all, urgency from officials in Tokyo.  Two, the earthquake was a political game changer. Last
year’s tragedy was supposed to usher in a new era in which
lawmakers would be rewarded for decisiveness. The days of the
 bureaucracy  that really runs Japan were said to be over.  Instead, officials in  Tokyo  preserved the status quo. They
failed to decentralize power and let local leaders make big
decisions; avoided reductions in red tape that might weaken
various political fiefdoms; ensured that bureaucrats kept
getting cushy jobs in industries they oversee; torpedoed efforts
to make government agencies more accountable; and ignored the
weak corporate-governance standards that led to Olympus Corp.’s
accounting scandal.  Nor has Japan’s revolving-door politics changed. Japan may
soon have its third prime minister since the quake, thanks to
Yoshihiko Noda’s dismal approval ratings. Remember the
excitement in August 2009 that ended the Liberal  Democratic
Party ’s roughly 54 years in power? Voters are so fed up with the
Democratic Party of Japan that they may return the keys to the
LDP after just three years. For many voters, Noda’s decision to
double consumption taxes amid stagnant growth was unpardonable.  Three, abandon nuclear power. The collective sense of
amnesia is breathtaking, especially since former Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan  considered an evacuation of Tokyo as the Fukushima
reactors melted down. Tokyo Electric Power Co., whose negligence
created the worst crisis since Chernobyl, survived intact. None
of its executives has been punished for the failures.  ‘Nuclear Village’  Noda is restarting the nuclear reactors even as radiation
renders much of the Fukushima region uninhabitable. Worse,
Japan’s potent “nuclear village,” the nexus of power companies
and pro-nuclear regulators, bureaucrats and researchers, is back
on top. Under industry pressure, the government is waffling on
its pledge to phase out nuclear power by 2040.  Four, look outward for prosperity. Industry is making some
headway here. Top brands such as  Fast Retailing Co. (9983) ’s Uniqlo and
convenience-store operator Lawson Inc. are generating much of
their growth overseas.  If only the government did its part. Since the earthquake,
it has made little progress on free-trade agreements or
deregulating key sectors such as transportation and agriculture.
Immigrants still clamor in vain to enter Japan to work as
nurses, construction workers and factory employees. Relations in
 Asia  are only getting worse as Japan spars with  China  and  South
Korea  over sovereignty of some tiny rocks in the ocean.  Five, get out of the way of the private sector. If Softbank
Corp. billionaire Masayoshi Son thought the government would
meet him halfway in efforts to build the nation’s biggest solar-
power plants, he was sorely mistaken. Son, whose company sells
Apple Inc.’s iPhone in Japan, is still struggling to get the
government’s approval. His travails highlight how the political
system is akin to a scratchy 45 rpm record in an iTune world.  The trouble is, officials in  Tokyo , who still hold the
purse strings and call the shots, are standing in the way of
such transformations. That is sure to mean that Scott’s film is
likely to have a happier ending than the one enjoyed by  Japan ’s
people.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  