-- Liverpool Beats Young Boys 5-3 in Europa League as Atletico Wins
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-09-20T22:51:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/liverpool-beats-young-boys-5-3-in-europa-league-as-atletico-wins.html
Liverpool rallied to beat  Young
Boys  5-3 in soccer’s Europa League, as Atletico Madrid opened
its title defense with a 3-0 win at Hapoel Tel-Aviv.  Napoli was a 4-0 winner on the opening night of group play
in Europe’s second-tier club competition, while Tottenham,
Newcastle and Inter Milan all tied.  Jonjo Shelvy came off the bench to score twice in the final
14 minutes last night as Liverpool came from behind to win the
Group A game in Berne, Switzerland.  With one eye on the Sept. 23 Premier League game against
 Manchester United , Reds manager  Brendan Rodgers  fielded a
second-string team after leaving regular starters including
captain  Steven Gerrard , goalkeeper Pepe Reina, striker  Luis Suarez  and defender  Martin Skrtel  back in England.  “We’ve got a lot of young players within the group but to
come from behind away from home in a European game makes me
proud,” Rodgers said on Liverpool’s website. “The biggest
thing we showed, alongside our quality, was our character.”  Liverpool led 2-1 at halftime before Juhani Ojala tied it
for Young Boys in the 53rd minute. The Swiss club went in front
on Gonzalo Zarate’s goal in the 63rd minute, before Liverpool
drew even on a header from Sebastian Coates.  Shelvy put the Reds in front in the 76th minute and
clinched the victory with two minutes remaining.  Antonio  Di Natale  scored in stoppage time to earn Udinese a
1-1 draw at home against Anzhi Makhachkala in the other Group A
match.  Atletico Wins  Atletico Madrid , seeking its third Europa League title in
four seasons, got goals from Cristian Rodriguez, Diego Costa and
Raul Garcia to win its Group B game in Israel. Viktoria Plzen
beat Academia 3-1 in the group’s other match.  In Group F, Dnipro beat PSV Eindhoven 2-0 and Eduardo
Vargas scored a hat trick in Napoli’s rout of AIK.  Tottenham put the ball into the net twice against Lazio,
only to have each disallowed as the teams finished scoreless in
a Group J game in London.  Clint Dempsey  was ruled to be offside when he scored in the
first half and Steven Caulker was called for a foul as he headed
in a corner in the second.  Alvaro Gonzalez  hit the crossbar for
Lazio. Maribor beat Panathinaikos 3-0 in the other Group J game.  Newcastle Draws  In Group D, Shola Ameobi hit the post and crossbar with
shots as Newcastle drew 0-0 at Maritimo and Bordeaux routed
Bruges 4-0.  Group C opened with a pair of draws as Marseille and
Fenerbahce finished 2-2 and AEL and Borussia Moenchengladbach
were goalless. Copenhagen beat Molde 2-1 in Group E and
Stuttgart tied 2-2 with Steaua Bucharest.  Yuto Nagatomo’s goal in stoppage time gave Inter Milan a
2-2 draw with Rubin Kazan in Group H, while Partizan Belgrade
and Neftchi of Azerbaijan tied 0-0. Lyon beat Sparta Prague 2-1
and Athletic Bilbao, last season’s runner-up, tied 1-1 with
Hapoel Kiryat Shmona in Group I.  In Group G, Genk beat Videoton 3-0 and Sporting Lisbon
finished 0-0 with Basel, while Rosenborg beat Rapid Vienna 2-1
and Bayer Leverkusen tied Metalist Kharkiv 0-0 in Group K.
Levante beat Helsingborgs 1-0 in Group L and FC Twente drew 2-2
with Hannover.  The top two teams in each of the 12 groups advance to the
round of 32 alongside the eight third-place finishers from the
elite  Champions League  group stage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 