-- J.C. Penney Falls as CEO’s Store Tour Gets Tepid Response
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-09-20T20:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/j-c-penney-ceo-shows-300-analysts-test-store-in-dallas.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  dropped the most in
four months after Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson ’s showcase
of the stores’ new layout failed to inspire confidence in his
remake of the 110-year-old retailer.  The shares  fell  11 percent to $25.83 at the close in  New
York , the biggest one-day drop since May 16. The Plano, Texas-
based company was the biggest  decliner  on the  Standard & Poor’s 
500 Index today and has lost 27 percent this year.  Johnson, the former  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  retail chief who joined the
retailer last year, took 300 analysts on a tour of a 30,000-
square-foot prototype yesterday, located on the third floor of a
J.C. Penney store in a Dallas mall. He aimed to show how he is
working to transform most of the company’s stores into a
collection of 100 branded shops and gathering areas, a linchpin
of his strategy that he says will revive sales.  “Some of the air needs to come out of the proverbial
bubble as reality sets in that although JCP is taking steps in
the right direction, the road to recovery is still a few years
away,”  Charles Grom , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in New York
with a hold rating on the shares, wrote in a note yesterday.
While Johnson said he wants to keep current shoppers, his plan
to ultimately move to slightly younger or higher-income
customers “gives us some concern,” Grom wrote.  Sales Declining  While Johnson said results at the 12 boutiques installed at
almost 700 of its stores are beating comparable sales of other
merchandise by 20 percent, he said it has been a “tough last
two weeks,” and reiterated his year of transformation still has
13 weeks and two days left. J.C. Penney’s comparable-store sales
fell 22 percent in the quarter ended July 28.  Even though the mock-up store was impressive, the company
will be challenged to replicate it in 700 stores and it’s
uncertain when sales will improve,  Paul Lejuez , an analyst at
Nomura Securities International Inc. in New York, said today in
a note to clients.  “We want to believe this can work, and longer term, we
think it will,” said Lejuez, who rates the shares neutral, the
equivalent of a hold. “But this has been, and will likely
continue to be a roller coaster ride with many ups and downs.”  It’s an unfavorable reaction to an event Johnson held to
convince long-term investors to buy into his vision.  Mini Shops  “For a long-term investor to understand what we’re trying
to do, there’s nothing like seeing to understand,” Johnson said
yesterday to the group of analysts, which also included activist
investor  Bill Ackman , who backs his strategy. The prototype
began taking shape in May, when his management team started “to
move from an idea into an art project,” he said.  Johnson aims to create a new type of retailer called a
“specialty department store,” with about as many mini-shops as
most malls have, and has already introduced boutiques for Levi
Strauss & Co. and Izod products. The company plans to widen
aisles by five feet to 15 feet, and install couches, Lego-laden
tables and computer browsing areas in the extra space.  That part of the store, or the Street, as Johnson calls it,
is “the game-changer,” Ben Fay, head of real estate, store
design and development, said yesterday as analysts and investors
wandered the space, eating gelato and sampling coffee from
potential dining spots in the store.  ‘Great Vision’  “It certainly highlights they’ve got a great vision,”
Erika Maschmeyer, an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co., said
yesterday after the tour. “They still have 1,100 physical
stores where it’ll take time to implement these changes,” said
Maschmeyer, who has a neutral rating on the stock. Investors
“shouldn’t get overly excited,” she said.  The company’s  sales  fell more than 20 percent in the first
and second quarters as Johnson implemented store layout changes
and switched to a system of everyday low prices to cut back on
promotions, moves that alienated or confused some customers.  While analysts  project  sales declines of at least 11
percent in the next two quarters, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, investors such as Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital
Management LP are supporting Johnson’s vision. Johnson and
Ackman, the biggest shareholder with 18 percent, chatted
throughout the day.  He cited  Caribou Coffee Co. (CBOU)  as an example of a snack-vendor
that may pepper the wider aisles of the new stores and give
families another reason to spend time there.  New Vendors  The prototype also had shops in place for newly announced
vendors such as  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and Giggle, for baby goods. J.C.
Penney distributed $25 gift cards to the group and encouraged
them to shop, transporting interested analysts afterward to an
updated store at the nearby Stonebriar Centre Mall in Frisco,
 Texas .  “The idea of shops is especially enticing to start-ups and
international potential partners looking for an expedited and
inexpensive way to gain access and scale in the U.S.,”  Deborah Weinswig , a Citigroup Inc. analyst, wrote in a note yesterday.
Weinswig, who is top-ranked by Institutional Investor, said the
stores “will offer a shopping experience unlike any other in
apparel retailing,” and reiterated her buy rating.  The new layout will affect about 700 of J.C. Penney’s
bigger shops. The company will detail plans for its 400 smaller
stores “in the near future,” Johnson said last month.  The company plans to have 40 mini-shops in each of the
bigger stores next year, and is mostly putting construction on
hold until after the  holiday shopping season , Johnson said. It
will have mobile checkouts throughout stores beginning Feb. 1.  Fashion Shows  Specialty stores account for a greater proportion of U.S.
retail sales than department stores, a shift from the 1950s and
1960s that Johnson is looking to capitalize on with the new
layout, said Robin Lewis, a New York-based retail consultant who
toured the prototype earlier this month.  The boutique-like atmosphere and events, such as fashion
shows, classes and dining spots, will encourage customers to
spend more time at J.C. Penney and spend more money, Lewis said
in a telephone interview. He said the stores may make $350 per
square foot from about $135 each they currently make.  Through yesterday, J.C. Penney’s stock had gained more than
20 percent since Aug. 10, when Johnson said his overhaul of the
department-store chain was “on track.” On that day the shares
rose the most in six months even though it reported a 23 percent
decline in sales to $3.02 billion, the  lowest  quarterly sales
since at least 1989, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bonds Fell  The company’s bonds fell today. J.C. Penney’s $400 million
of 5.65 percent senior unsecured notes due in June 2020 declined
2.6 cents to 91.5 cents on the dollar to yield 7.1 percent at
3:06 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Earlier this year, Moody’s Investors Service cut the
company’s credit rating to Ba3, three levels below investment-
grade and Standard & Poor’s downgraded it to B+, one grade
lower. The average B rated bond yields 6.86 percent, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Yesterday’s call “did not sway our belief that the near-
term story at JCP will continue to be defined by poor comp sales
and extremely weak financial performance -- even relative to
recession-era holiday seasons,”  James Goldstein , an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in New York, wrote in a note yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  