-- Jakarta Chooses Challenger Over Incumbent to Govern, Polls Show
-- B y   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 2012-09-20T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/jakarta-chooses-challenger-over-incumbent-to-govern-polls-show.html
Residents in  Indonesia ’s capital
ousted an incumbent governor in favor of a challenger who has
pledged to improve the city’s infrastructure, exit polls from
yesterday’s voting showed. Official results will be released in
about a week.  Joko Widodo, the mayor of a city 2,700 kilometers (1,677
miles) away, beat Fauzi Bowo, the current Jakarta governor,
according to surveys taken after polls closed yesterday.
Jaringan Suara Indonesia had the race at 53.28 percent for
Widodo and 46.72 percent for Bowo. Lingkaran Survey Indonesia
had Widodo winning 53.68 percent to 46.32 percent.  The contest pitted an outsider with a Christian running
mate in a Muslim-majority city against an incumbent with support
from Golkar, the party that former dictator Suharto used to stay
in power for three decades. The winner must govern a metropolis
with 9.6 million  people  that has no mass transit system and lags
behind other regional capitals in quality of life.  “This is a transformational vote for the whole country,”
said Dennis Heffernan, director of Jakarta-based Van Zorge,
Heffernan & Associates, which provides business advice. “If
people all over the country see that with their own voting power
they can overcome the barriers set up by the establishment,
it’ll be an awakening.”  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono , who has led Indonesia
since 2004, has pledged to build more roads, ports and airports
to achieve average economic expansion of 6.6 percent by the end
of 2014. In July, the central bank lowered its 2012 growth
forecast to about 6.1 percent to 6.5 percent, from a previous
estimate of as much as 6.7 percent.  ‘Fresh Man’  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  has gained 11 percent this year,
trailing behind benchmarks in  Thailand ,  Singapore  and the
 Philippines , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rupiah
has lost 5 percent in that time, the worst performer among
 Asia ’s 11 most traded currencies.  “I think Jakarta needs a fresh man like Jokowi,”
Wijayanti, a 34-year-old lawyer, said yesterday outside a
polling station in South Jakarta, using Widodo’s nickname. “He
has shown a strong will to make Jakarta better, rather than just
criticizing the other candidates over shallow issues.”  Jakarta ranked 181 out of 221 cities for personal safety in
a survey conducted last year by advisory company  Mercer  that
ranked internal stability, crime levels and law enforcement
effectiveness. The city ranked 140 in overall quality of life,
below Singapore,  Kuala Lumpur , Bangkok and  Manila .  About 400 Indonesian protesters clashed with police outside
the U.S. Embassy in Jakarta this week in a demonstration against
an anti-Islam film, throwing rocks and using slingshots. The
embassy will close today in anticipation of more demonstrations,
it said on a statement on its website. The city has seen two
major terrorist attacks in the past decade, with bombings at
hotels in 2003 and 2009 killing 19 people.  Transit System  Widodo and Bowo both have pledged to improve the mass
transit system, which has been delayed since studies were first
conducted in the 1980s. Traffic gets so bad that motorists pay
bystanders to join them in car-pool lanes during rush hour.  “The drivers prefer younger children, especially the
female drivers,” Sumardin, a 12-year-old boy who earns about
150,000 rupiah ($12.58) per day riding in cars, said on a recent
morning as he waited for work. “They are scared we will get in
the car and try to rob them, so small children get more
customers.”  PT Mass Rapid Transit Jakarta , a company owned by the city,
plans to award the first construction contract next month for a
$1.8 billion project transit system with more than 110
kilometers of rails, spokesman Manpalagupta Sitorus said in an
e-mailed response to questions on Sept. 14. Traffic congestion
leads to economic losses of about 12.8 trillion rupiah a year,
according to its website.  ‘Long Overdue’  A proper transportation system may make Jakarta more
attractive to investors, according to Tai Hui, head of regional
research at  Standard Chartered  in Singapore.  “No one wants to hang around Jakarta,” he said. “The
culture is there, the people are nice, but the infrastructure,
the traffic, is just a nightmare. A public transportation system
is long overdue.”  The result of the election will be announced by Sept. 29,
and the governor will be sworn in on Oct. 7, said Sumarno, the
head of vote counting at the nation’s election commission.  “Whoever becomes the new Jakarta governor should listen to
the people to understand the problems,” Titi, a 35-year-old
high school teacher, said after voting. “I have no idea who to
vote for. In my opinion, neither candidate will make changes for
the better.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net ;
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at  gahlstrand@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  