-- Japan’s Next Leader Faces One of World’s Toughest Jobs
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-20T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/japan-s-next-leader-faces-one-of-world-s-toughest-jobs.html
Yoshihiko Noda will doubtless win
his party’s leadership race this week. There’s little certainty,
though, that Japan’s prime minister is up to putting his
country, the world’s No. 3 economy, on stronger footing.  For starters, Noda’s victory may be Pyrrhic. He is under
pressure to dissolve parliament and hold national elections,
perhaps as soon as November. His dismal public support raises
the specter of the ruling  Democratic Party of Japan  losing power
after just three years. That would put the  Liberal Democratic
Party , which governed Japan for more than half a century, back
on top.  Noda, 55, and his party must also contend with a new
political force: Osaka Mayor Toru Hashimoto, 43, who is forging
a popular new third-party movement. Whoever takes control as
2013 approaches, Noda and the DPJ or the LDP, faces a daunting
set of challenges. Here are the three biggest.  First, get a grip on territorial disputes. Anti-Japan
demonstrations sweeping  China  are endangering a trade
relationship that tripled in the past decade to more than $340
billion, as well as the stability of markets, Japan’s credit
rating and its global standing. China, it must be said, has been
too tolerant of the increasingly violent protests over disputed
islands. This week, the official vehicle of U.S. Ambassador  Gary Locke  was damaged as it entered embassy grounds.  Olive Branch  Embroiled in its own leadership transition, China seems
keen on fanning the flames of nationalism to deflect attention
from embarrassments such as the corruption scandals surrounding
Bo Xilai. The next leader of Japan must extend an  olive branch 
before the crisis escalates into armed conflict -- not because
it’s all Japan’s fault, but because China is unlikely to do so.  Second, revive the economy. Noda, or the  LDP ’s to-be-named-
later pick for prime minister, must find his inner Koizumi.
Prime minister from 2001 to 2006,  Junichiro Koizumi  was the
closest thing Japan has had in decades to an economic reformer.
He reduced wasteful public-works spending, put deregulation on
the table and privatized the vast postal system, which ran the
world’s biggest savings bank.  Still, history shows Koizumi was more of a  Mikhail Gorbachev  than a  Margaret Thatcher  or  Ronald Reagan : a leader
who set the stage for a genuine economic reformer. Japan’s next
leader must be that change agent.  The formidable economic to-do list includes reducing the
world’s largest debt without killing growth, managing the
consequences of an aging population and a negligible birthrate,
tweaking the  tax code  to cultivate job-creating startups, and
raising Japan Inc.’s corporate-governance game. The next leader
must get serious about forging free-trade agreements and
devising a more open and economically advantageous immigration
policy.  Last but not least, that next leader must find a new  energy
policy . A massive earthquake and tsunami on March 11, 2011,
forever changed Japan’s relationship with nuclear power, turning
a majority of  Japan ’s 127 million people against the reactors
that had provided about 30 percent of their electricity.  Greenpeace  exaggerates when it  argues  Japan can live
comfortably without its reactors. Its public coffers are under
stress to pay for oil, gas and coal to generate electricity, and
its carbon footprint is growing. Japan should boldly champion
renewable energy sources -- solar, wind, geothermal, biofuels
derived from algae, you name it.  Dispiriting Message  A case in point would be to approve plans by Masayoshi Son,
the billionaire chief executive officer of Softbank Corp., to
spend about $1 billion building 10 giant solar farms. They are
snarled in red tape, sending a dispiriting message to other
would-be investors at a time when Japan needs lots of
alternatives to nuclear power.  Noda’s biggest failing, in our view, is a lack of vision
and imagination. He won kudos for doubling Japan’s consumption
tax to 10 percent to pay down public debt. Yet raising taxes on
a population traumatized by two decades of economic drift and
last year’s earthquake was taking the easy road. It’s a quicker
route, certainly, than shaking up a change-resistant economic
and political system. It’s about time Japan’s leaders choose the
road less taken.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  poverty and inequality 
aren’t as bad as you think; Stephen L. Carter on how Hustler
magazine can inform  our response to Mideast violence ;  Pankaj
Mishra  on the tangled roots of  the Sino-Japanese territorial
spat ; William Pesek on  Japan’s slow tsunami recovery ;  Jonathan
Weil  on  banks inflating their capital ;  Matt Miller  on the  school
strike  the U.S. really needs; Mel and Patricia Ziegler on
 selling Banana Republic to The Gap .  Today’s highlights:  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 