-- Japan’s Retailers Reopen China Stores as Demonstrations Ease
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-20T09:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/japanese-retailers-reopen-stores-in-china-as-demonstrations-ease.html
Japanese retailers today reopened
stores in China that were closed amid violent protests over a
territorial dispute, as demonstrations eased and Moody’s
Investors Service said the short-term fallout from the
disruption would be minimal.  Fast Retailing Co. (9983) , owner of Uniqlo clothing brand,
reopened outlets closed as the protests peaked the first two
days of this week, spokeswoman Yukie Sakaguchi said in a
telephone interview. A 7-Eleven store along Beijing’s Second
Ring Road that had closed Sept. 18 was operating normally today.  “We shouldn’t mix politics with business,” Candy Liu, 23,
said as she left a Uniqlo store in Beijing. “Since Japanese
companies are in China, we have to protect their Chinese
employees.”  The diplomatic crisis, the worst since 2005 between the two
countries, threatened trade ties between  Asia ’s two biggest
economies. The bond risk for some Japanese companies surged as
the dispute sparked rhetoric by Chinese commentators that the
country should be prepared to go to war if necessary.  Japanese politicians may come under pressure to maintain a
hard line on the dispute or respond to China’s move to send
patrol vessels to the islands at the heart of the dispute,
according to Thomas Berger, associate professor of international
relations at  Boston University .  Chinese Repeat  “If the Chinese repeat this and start doing this on a
regular basis, the Japanese will de facto lose control over
those islands,” Berger said in a phone interview. “There will
be a debate inside  Japan  and there will be people who will want
to move Japan massively in a conservative direction.”  The dispute was sparked last week when Japan’s government
said it would buy the islands, known as the Diaoyu in China and
the Senkaku in Japanese, from their private Japanese owner.
China claims that it’s owned the islands for centuries, while
Japan argues it took administrative control of them in 1895,
lost its claim after World War II and had the islands returned
to it in 1972.  Japan’s increased dependence on  China  for export sales
gives officials in Beijing the upper hand in the territorial
dispute, according to a Bloomberg Chart of the Day. Japan’s
sales to China more than doubled between 2002 and 2011 as the
nation became Japan’s No. 1 market.  “The severe situation in China-Japan relations is
completely caused by Japan’s unilateral announcement of the
purchase of the islands,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei
said at a briefing today. “The Japanese side should bear full
responsibility for that.”  Island Fight  China should be prepared to fight for the islands if
necessary, Wang Xiaoxuan, direct of the Naval Research Institute
of the  People’s Liberation Army , said in a commentary in the
China Daily newspaper, today.  “China should make all possible preparations, including
preparations for a possible military conflict and even war,”
Wang wrote.  Shigeru Ishiba, a candidate running to lead the opposition
 Liberal Democratic Party , vowed not to back down and offered
praise for former British Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher ’s
handling of the Falklands crisis in 1982, when Britain went to
war with  Argentina  to keep the islands under its control.  “I have no plan to withdraw the nationalization,” Ishiba
told a briefing yesterday “Losing even a small part of your
territory means you will eventually lose the whole country.”  Yomiuri Poll  A Yomiuri newspaper poll published Sept. 18 said Ishiba had
34 percent support among respondents who said they backed the
party.  In a statement today, Japan’s Foreign Ministry said China’s
claims to the islands are “completely without merit.” It said
the bilateral relationship is one of the most important for
Japan, and China’s encouraging its citizens to boycott Japanese
products and avoid visiting Japan were “complete
overreactions.”  While the Chinese unrest will have a limited impact in the
short term on Japanese companies, which will probably be able to
recover lost production, the longer-term effect is “difficult
to determine,” Moody’s said in a report today. It said the
automobile industry is “better-positioned” to sustain short-
term declines in sales in China amid strong global vehicle
sales. Consumer electronics companies are less well positioned,
it said.  ‘Fundamental Interest’  “Both countries have the fundamental interest not to let
this dispute get out of hand,”  Frederic Neumann , the co-head of
Asian economic research in  Hong Kong  at HSBC Holdings Plc., told
Bloomberg Television. “If you listen to some Chinese government
leaders, they tend to be a bit more cautious in their rhetoric
than non-official representatives who really don’t have the
official mandate to speak but perhaps are trying to fan the
flames a little bit.”  Fast Retailing rose 0.1 percent in Tokyo trading today
after falling the most in three months on Sept. 18. The company
was founded by  Tadashi Yanai , Japan’s richest man with an
estimated net worth of $11.6 billion, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  Hong Kong-based activists who had planned to visit the
islands decided to call off their trip, Chan Miu-tak, chairman
of the Action Committee to Defend the Diaoyu Islands, said by
telephone today. The activists decided to scrap their plans
because vessels from China and  Taiwan  are already near the
disputed islands, Chan said.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  President  Akio Toyoda  said today that
Japanese carmakers are monitoring the situation and called the
attacks on Japanese brands “regrettable.” Toyoda, chairman of
the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, said he hoped
the tensions can be resolved as soon as possible.  In Hong Kong, a 31-year-old man was arrested for punching a
Japanese couple as they walked along a deserted street Sept. 17,
the  South China Morning Post  reported today, citing police. The
newspaper said police were also investigating a bomb hoax at the
Japanese consulate in Hong Kong.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Penny Peng in Beijing at 
 ppeng18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  