-- Jobless Claims to Leading Index Show Weakness: Economy
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-09-20T20:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/jobless-claims-to-u-s-leading-index-add-to-weakness-economy.html
More Americans than forecast filed
claims for  unemployment benefits  and an index of leading
indicators declined for second time in three months, adding to
signs of weakness in the world’s largest economy.  Jobless claims decreased by 3,000 in the week ended Sept.
15 to 382,000, Labor Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The median forecast of 49 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg projected 375,000. The New York-based Conference
Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next three to six months
fell 0.1 percent after a 0.5 percent increase in July.  Companies are holding back on hiring and investment as
overseas demand cools and the prospect of tax increases and
spending cuts in the U.S. threatens growth. At the same time,
the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index climbed to a seven-week
high, helped in part by stock-market  gains  that may offer more
support for the household spending that accounts for 70 percent
of the economy.  Today’s figures are “consistent with modest growth --
we’re not going into recession, there’s no sort of sign that
activity is weakening substantially,” said Jeremy Lawson,
senior U.S. economist at BNP Paribas in  New York . “But there’s
no sign of shifting into a higher gear, either.”  Most U.S. stocks fell as the U.S. data, combined with
reports from Europe and  Asia , reinforced concern the global
slowdown is worsening. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost less
than 0.1 percent to 1,460.26 at the close of trading in New York
after declining as much as 0.8 percent.  Europe Services  A euro-area services and manufacturing gauge fell to a 39-
month low in September, London-based Markit Economics said today
in an initial estimate, as European leaders struggled to reverse
the single-currency bloc’s slide into recession.  In Asia, a Chinese manufacturing survey pointed to an 11th
month of contraction and  Japan ’s exports fell in August,
supporting the case for increased stimulus as the region’s
growth slows.  Estimates for U.S. jobless claims in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from 360,000 to 390,000. The Labor Department revised the
previous week’s figure to 385,000 from an initially reported
382,000. Last week’s data covered the period surveyed by the
government to calculate the September employment data.  The pace of hiring took a tumble last month. Payrolls rose
by 96,000 workers in August after a revised 141,000 increase in
July that was smaller than initially estimated, the Labor
Department said on Sept. 7.  Fed Stimulus  The lack of progress in the labor market persuaded the
 Federal Reserve  to announce further accommodation last week. The
Fed said it will expand its holdings of long-term securities
with open-ended purchases of $40 billion of mortgage debt a
month as it seeks to boost growth and reduce unemployment.  Another report today showed that manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region shrank for a fifth straight month in
September, reinforcing signs the industry will offer less
support to the economy.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s  general economic
index  improved to minus 1.9, higher than forecast, from minus
7.1 in August. Readings less than zero signal contraction in the
area covering eastern  Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and
 Delaware . The median forecast of 62 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was minus 4.5.  Fiscal Cliff  Companies concerned about the so-called fiscal cliff
include  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the largest maker of construction and
mining equipment. Combined tax increases and spending cuts of
about $600 billion are set to take effect at the beginning of
next year unless Congress acts.  “The thing that’s really hanging over us right now is
there is a large tax increase pending here at year-end, and
there are large spending cuts, government spending cuts, looming
at yearend,” Michael DeWalt, director of  investor relations  at
Peoria, Illinois-based Caterpillar, said in a Sept. 14
conference presentation. “If something is not done about that,
it could be quite negative. So, it’s not a clear picture.”  Companies from  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC)  to FedEx Corp. are
reducing profit forecasts as the slowing economy reduces demand
for everything from shipments of commodities to overnight
express envelopes.  At the same time, manufacturers were more optimistic about
the next six months as the Philadelphia Fed’s future index
climbed to 41.2, the highest since January, from 12.5.  Making Headway  Consumer confidence  is also making headway. Americans’ view
of the economic outlook improved in September as stock prices
rallied to a five-year high, according to the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort survey.  The gap between positive and negative expectations narrowed
to minus 8 this month, the highest reading since May, as the
percentage saying the U.S. was heading in the wrong direction
dropped by the most in three years. The weekly index rose to a
seven-week high of minus 40.8 in the period ended Sept. 16 from
minus 42.2.  The share of households viewing the economy as heading in
the  wrong direction  dropped to 34 percent in September, the
fewest since June, from 45 percent the prior month, according to
the Bloomberg monthly expectations gauge. The 11-point
improvement is the biggest since October 2009.  Women and Americans living in the Northeast were among the
groups that showed the biggest declines in pessimism this month,
the report showed. Those saying the economy was on the right
track climbed to 26 percent this month from 23 percent in
August.  Unexpected Gains  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is in line with the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary consumer
 sentiment  for September, which unexpectedly rose to a four-month
high of 79.2, according to a report last week.  Growing confidence may help boost  consumer spending  after
disappointing results last month. Sales at general merchandise,
clothing and electronics stores dropped in August, data from the
Commerce Department showed last week. Total retail sales
increased 0.9 percent, the most in six months, led by demand for
automobiles and a surge in receipts at service stations as
gasoline prices climbed.  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  of  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin , the third-
largest U.S. department-store company, plans to hire more than
52,700 workers to help with year-end holiday sales, an increase
of more than 10 percent from last year, according to a company
statement this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  