-- JPMorgan Power-Trading Business Faces Suspension, FERC Says
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-09-20T20:39:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/jpmorgan-power-trading-business-faces-suspension-ferc-says.html
The  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission  has accused J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corp. of
misleading regulators and said its authority to sell electricity
might be suspended.  FERC  issued  an order today that directs the unit of New
York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to show that it didn’t violate
FERC regulations and explain why its authorization to sell
electric energy and related services at market-based rates
should not be suspended.  “That can be more serious than a penalty, that could be
more serious than disgorging profits,” said Susan Court,
principal at SJC Energy Consultants LLC in Arlington,  Virginia ,
and a former FERC enforcement director. “That could entail a
lot more money than just paying a penalty.”  The order is part of FERC’s effort to increase transparency
and eliminate manipulation of the  electricity market . The agency
is investigating JPMorgan’s power trading in California and the
Midwest. That investigation came to light when FERC went to
court seeking internal e-mails from JPMorgan, saying the bids
from the company might have resulted in at least $73 million in
improper payments to generators.  FERC Chairman Jon Wellinghoff has pledged to expand
oversight of the multibillion dollar energy-trading business. In
February, the agency created a division within its enforcement
office to police the markets where electricity is bought and
sold by power generators and utilities.  California Grid  The dispute stems from requests in 2011 by the California
Independent System Operator, a grid operator, for information
about JPMorgan’s energy profits. JPMorgan told the operator that
the matter should be referred to FERC, even though FERC directed
CAISO to get the information from the company.  JPMorgan eventually provided the information, though said
it was doing so voluntarily even as FERC told the company it was
obliged to comply, according to the order posted on FERC’s
website today.  The order “preliminarily finds that JPMorgan may have
omitted material information or submitted misleading
information” four times in communications with FERC, the
 California  grid operator and that agency’s Department of Market
Monitoring, according to FERC.  JPMorgan must respond within 21 days of the order being
published in the Federal Register.  Wholesale Markets  Power companies can sell wholesale energy at market-based
rates, or cost-based rates, which are usually lower. FERC, which
grants the authority to sell electricity at market-based rates,
does so assuming that “a company’s behavior will not involve
fraud, deception or misrepresentation,” the commission said
today in the order.  “Thus, the commission has repeatedly emphasized that
companies failing to adhere to the commission’s rules and
regulations are subject to suspension or revocation of their
market-based rate authority,” according to the order.  “It’s hard to prove market manipulation, but filing a
false document that’s material -- that’s not so hard to prove,”
SJC Energy’s Court said. “Either you did it or you didn’t.”  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to
comment because the company hadn’t seen the FERC order.  Wall Street firms have been players in energy trading at
least since the late 1990’s, when many states restructured their
power markets. In so-called deregulated markets, buyers bid for
electricity from power generators. Consumers then purchase the
power from their local utility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  