-- KEB, CITIC Market Dollar Debt as Sales Fall Amid Slowing Economy
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-09-20T05:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/keb-citic-market-dollar-debt-as-sales-fall-amid-slowing-economy.html
Korea Exchange Bank (004940)  and CITIC Bank
International Ltd. are marketing dollar-denominated bonds as
sales slow amid signs of weakening economic growth in  Asia . New
versions of the region’s bond risk indexes began trading today.  The Seoul-based lender and the Hong Kong-based unit of
 China ’s biggest state-owned investment company are each seeking
to sell as much as $300 million of notes today, according to
people familiar with the deals.  Issuance is on track to almost halve this week as economic
data showed China’s manufacturing may contract for an 11th month
in September, while Japan’s exports fell for a third-straight
month in August. Borrowers boosted debt sales earlier this month
as stimulus from the world’s biggest central banks spurred
demand for riskier assets. Asian bond funds had 16 straight
weeks of inflows as of Sept. 12, EPFR Global data show.  “There’s a large amount of money that’s sloshing around
and there’s still positive, though slower, fund flows to keep
the party rolling along,” said Pradeep Mohinani, a Hong Kong-
based desk analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. At the same time,
yield premiums may have fallen further than is justified by the
economic outlook, he said.  Spreads on  dollar bonds  from Asian borrowers narrowed to
278 basis points more than Treasuries yesterday, the least since
May 26, 2011, according to an HSBC Holdings Plc index.  Asia Risk  The latest series of the Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40
investment-grade borrowers outside Japan was at 131 basis points
as of 8.31 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Westpac Banking Corp. prices show.  Fresh versions of the benchmarks are created every six
months when companies are added or dropped depending on their
ratings, cost of protection and ease of trading.  KEB is offering three-year bonds at about 175 basis points
more than two-year Treasuries, the person familiar with the
matter said, asking not to be identified because the terms
aren’t set.  CITIC Bank is marketing a 10-year bond that can be bought
back by the Hong Kong-based lender in five years. The lower tier
2 note is being offered at a spread of about 350 basis points
more than five-year Treasuries, the person said.  Fantasia Holdings Group Co., a Shenzhen-based property
developer, is also marketing a dollar-denominated bond in the
low-to mid-14 percent range, another person said.  Bond Roll  The previous series of the Asian bond risk gauge closed at
112.6 basis points yesterday, according to CMA, which is owned
by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The maturity date of the new
indexes is December 2017, compared with June 2017 on the Series
17 versions.  The Series 18 Markit iTraxx Australia index was at 151.5
basis points as of 10:21 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac
Banking Corp. That compares with a closing price of 136.6 basis
points for the previous series yesterday, according to data
provider CMA.  The new  Markit iTraxx  Japan  series was at 206 basis points
as of 9:15 a.m. in  Tokyo , Deutsche Bank AG prices show.  Default swaps on JFE Holdings Inc. and OJI Paper Co. were
added to the Markit iTraxx Japan series, with contracts on
Softbank Corp. and JFE Steel Corp. removed, according to
information on Markit’s  website . There were no changes to the
constituents of the Asian and Australian gauges.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  