-- Killer Soldier Opens Theater; Simon Callow: London Stage
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i   a n d   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-09-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/killer-soldier-opens-theater-simon-callow-london-stage.html
British Army Private Eddie Clark is
accused of tossing an Iraqi boy down a well.  The 20-year-old soldier (Joshua Miles) is questioned by
Major Oscar Hadley (Anthony Andrews), a Falklands War veteran
now in a wheelchair. The pair form the cast of “Bully Boy,”
which premiered this week at the brand-new  St. James Theatre .  The writer of “Bully Boy,” Sandi Toksvig (a comedian and
broadcaster), sets out to focus on the mentally scarred, those
unspoken casualties of war. In the program, she mentions that as
many as 1.5 million Vietnam War veterans suffered from post-
traumatic stress disorder. In the play, she has a line about the
Falklands War causing more suicide deaths than combat deaths.  Worthy causes make awkward theater, especially when the
writer is better known for one-liners than full-length plays.
Each scene in “Bully Boy” would work fine as a (radio) skit.
Taken as a whole, the play feels disjointed.  Frontloading the drama doesn’t help. The Iraqi village
boy’s death is recounted at the start, making whatever comes
after feel flat.  Director Patrick Sandford tries to keep it all lively by
introducing shock elements. Scene changes are quick and
deafening, especially at the start: Lights go off, and you hear
a mix of artillery fire, human howls, and the Muslim call to
prayer. Sets consist of projections of barbed wire, flag-draped
coffins, or bookshelves.  Brideshead Star  The real intensity comes from the acting. Miles is
excellent as feral Eddie, sweating and spluttering across the
stage in combat camouflage. Andrews (who was in “Brideshead
Revisited”) brings upper-class stiffness to his role.  There’s a touching bond between two lost souls that
everything divides: class, age, rank. Eddie has a heavy
northeastern accent, no schooling, and a father who drinks.
Hadley has breeding, medals, and a sense of duty. Yet both are
helpless victims of a war they can’t put behind them.  Humor crops up at the end when Eddie probes Hadley’s
musical tastes, betting he likes “fat women singing foreign.”
Hadley reveals a taste for Kool & the Gang and Hot Chocolate.
Ultimately, the two performers make the most of a patchy play,
allowing  London ’s youngest theater to get off to a solid start.
Rating: *** (Farah Nayeri)  Simon Callow  “The Mystery of  Charles Dickens ,” Simon Callow’s one-man
show at the Playhouse Theatre, promises an evening of suspense.  As it bowls along, buoyed by Callow’s infectious
enthusiasm, the greatest mystery is the title.  Dickens had dark secrets in his personal life for sure,
though there isn’t the huge unanswered thriller to match the
great Victorian novelist’s classic plots.  It goes at a cracking pace, tearing through Dickens’s real-
life drama: scarred childhood, poverty wages, rise to huge fame
and fortune, ill-fated marriage and younger mistress.  Fans of the “Four Weddings and a Funeral” star, or the
legions of Dickensians marking the writer’s bicentennial, will
love it. This isn’t so much a play as it is a staged lecture.  It’s still a one-man tour de force as Callow switches
adroitly between the roles of the narrator and Dickens himself.
He’s at his best playing unpleasant characters such as Fagin,
Uriah Heep and Mrs. Gamp. The clever script is by Peter Ackroyd.  Callow has performed this in the  West End  and around the
world before, with a tour ending in 2003. His new director,
Richard Twyman, keeps the show fresh and simple.  Rating: *** (Mark Beech)  Binoche’s Julie  Juliette Binoche  is bedding the help.  As the poor little rich girl in “Mademoiselle Julie” -- the
1888 August Strindberg play -- the French actress struts the
Barbican stage in a slinky sequined number with a slit on the
side. She shows up to the servants’ party and easily convinces
her dad’s valet to spend the night with her.  Dynamics shift: The valet gets cocky, she gets clingy.  Frederic Fisbach’s contemporary staging is effective. The
play opens on two sets of sliding panes. Behind one set are the
valet and the maid (his girlfriend); behind another is the 
party, with throbbing disco music.  Nicolas Bouchaud and Benedicte Cerutti are convincing as
the household staff in this French-language production (with
English surtitles). Binoche, however, seems under-rehearsed, and
does a little too much howling.  Rating: *** (Farah Nayeri)  “Bully Boy” is at St. James Theatre, 12 Palace Street,
SW1E 5JA, through Oct. 27. Information: +44-844-264-2140 or
 http://www.stjamestheatre.co.uk .  “The Mystery of Charles Dickens” is at the Playhouse
Theatre, Northumberland Avenue, WC2N 5DE, through Nov. 10.
Information: +44-20-7492-1593,  http://simoncallow.com/  or
 http://www.playhousetheatrelondon.com .
Fisbach, premiered at the Festival d’Avignon.  “Mademoiselle Julie” ends Sept. 29 at the Barbican Theatre:
 http://www.barbican.org.uk  or +44-845-120-7511.  (Farah Nayeri and Mark Beech write for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
their own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on history and  Zinta
Lundborg’s   New York  weekend.  To contact the writers on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net  or
Mark Beech in London at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 