-- King Says It May Be Acceptable for Osborne to Miss Debt Goal
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-09-21T08:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/king-says-it-may-be-acceptable-for-osborne-to-miss-his-debt-goal.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said it would be acceptable for the government to miss its
debt-reduction targets if it’s because the economy failed to
recover from the recession.  “If it’s because the economy’s grown slowly, yes, indeed,
and that was always part of the plan,” King said in an
interview on Channel 4 television in  London  late yesterday. In
that situation, “it would be acceptable to be in that position.
But if the world economy were to pick up and we could grow quite
quickly, then it would not be acceptable to miss it if we have
no real excuse.”  The uncertain economic outlook has prompted speculation
that Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will miss one of
the two pillars of the government’s fiscal policy -- a
commitment to see  net debt  fall as a share of the economy from
2015. King also said there are signs of a modest recovery in the
U.K., though he cautioned that a “black cloud of uncertainty”
remains, and a lot will depend on developments in the euro area.  Osborne’s fiscal plan “did allow for the fact that if the
economy were to grow slowly, then taxes would not rise as
quickly and spending would be higher so the deficit would be
bigger,” King said. “And the plan said, ‘don’t attempt to
bring that deficit down if it’s the result of slow growth in the
economy,’ and that’s exactly what’s happening.”  Record Deficit  Data today showed Britain posted its biggest August  budget
deficit  on record, increasing pressure on Osborne as the
recession hits  tax revenue . The shortfall excluding government
support for banks was 14.4 billion pounds ($23 billion). Tax
revenue rose 1.8 percent from a year earlier and  government
spending  climbed 2.5 percent.  King said the U.K. economy is likely to grow this quarter
for the first time in a year after a 0.5 percent slump in the
 three months through June . Still, when asked, he said he
wouldn’t use the phrase “green shoots.”  “The last quarter was down, I think the next quarter will
probably be up,” he said. “I think we’re beginning to see a
few signs now of a slow recovery, but it will be a slow
recovery. After a banking crisis, one can’t expect to get back
to normal, and I fear it will take a long time. What it will
depend on critically is what happens in the euro area and also
the rest of the world.”  No Guarantees  Asked about the  European Central Bank ’s latest measures to
tackle the euro-area debt crisis, he said it isn’t a long-term
solution, “but it may buy enough time for them to work out what
is the long-term solution.”  He also said that euro-area leaders have “tried very hard
to keep the show on the road, but I don’t think there’s any
guarantee that they’ll be able to do that.”  King, who is due to retire in June 2013, said he supported
the original recommendations of the Independent Commission on
Banking before they were softened by the U.K. government. Still,
he added that the key thing now was to press on with the current
reforms.  He also said he expects more U.K. banks may be fined by
regulators over manipulation of the London interbank offered
rate after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in June. Britain’s Financial Services
Authority is scheduled to release a report next week on the
future U.K. regulation of Libor and other interest rate
benchmarks.  “Prosecutions may well emerge and I’m sure large fines may
emerge,” King said. “All this is deeply unsatisfactory.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  