-- Knight Moves Sadoff From Technology Post Two Months After Loss
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-09-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/knight-capital-names-bisgay-as-chief-operating-officer.html
Two months after  Knight Capital
Group Inc. (KCG)  lost $440 million in a computer malfunction, the
trading firm reassigned the executive in charge of technology.  Steven Sadoff, who oversaw operations and technology at the
Jersey City, New Jersey-based firm, was moved to a role building
Knight’s clearing, prime brokerage and futures businesses. The
company consolidated oversight of its finances and operations
under a single executive, naming Chief Financial Officer Steven Bisgay to the added post of chief operating officer.  Knight was taken over by six Wall Street firms including
Jefferies Group Inc. and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  in August after
losses associated with the software error depleted its capital.
The investors, who paid $400 million for securities convertible
into more than 70 percent of Knight’s equity, are represented by
three new Knight directors.  “It appears that this was a result of recent events,”
Rich Repetto, a New York-based analyst for Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP, said in a telephone interview. “They are shaking
up the company a bit in the technology area.”  Bisgay will add the responsibilities effective immediately,
the  Jersey City , New Jersey-based company said yesterday in a
statement. The market maker also promoted Brian Strauss to chief
risk officer in a newly created role and began a search for a
chief technology officer as well as an operational and
technology risk manager.  Errant Orders  Knight bombarded U.S. equity exchanges with erroneous
orders on Aug. 1 as it began trading with the faulty software,
according to Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce. The error
caused volume to surge and prices to swing in dozens of
securities.  “After careful consideration, we concluded it was best to
consolidate responsibility for all financial, operational and
technology risk under a single executive,” Joyce said in the
statement.  Knight said earlier this week that Joseph Wald, head of
trading algorithms for institutional clients, had left to
“pursue other opportunities.” The move was unrelated to the
Aug. 1 events, said Kara Fitzsimmons, a spokeswoman for Knight.  The  shares  fell 0.8 percent yesterday to $2.57 and have
lost 75 percent since the trading error.  The shakeup came as lawmakers and securities professionals
met in  Washington  to consider ways to arrest a growing
perception that computers are adding instability to  stock
trading  in America.  Bats, Facebook  In addition to Knight’s debacle, exchange operator Bats
Global Markets Inc. pulled its initial public offering in March
after failing to get its own stock to trade and Wall Street
firms lost hundreds of millions of dollars when Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. mishandled Facebook Inc.’s public debut in May.  Richard Ketchum , the chief executive officer of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, said more discipline is
needed from brokers.  “Firms need to re-examine how prepared they are to deal
with inevitable problems,” Ketchum said at a Security Traders
Association conference. That involves “ensuring that there’s
someone on the trading desk always with responsibility to make a
determination on whether to stop the flow going to exchanges,”
and “reviewing how quickly that order flow gets stopped,” he
said.  Sal Arnuk, a partner at Themis Trading LLC and frequent
critic of U.S. market structure, said incentives paid by
exchanges to attract orders have put too much emphasis on speed
among the high-frequency traders who account for most trades.  Fragmented Market  The implementation of rules known as Regulation NMS in 2007
has led to a fragmented market in which orders are executed on
13 exchanges, several alternative venues, more than 40 dark
pools and through other broker-dealer systems. The rules drove a
focus on speed and led to the expansion of order types for high-
frequency firms, Joseph Mecane, head of U.S. equities at NYSE
Euronext, said Sept. 19 at a conference in Washington.  “It’s a game of pick up the rebate,” Arnuk said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television. “Race to zero in speed, be
first in line to pick up the exchange rebates, have the best
cutting-edge algo. The combination of this is what’s caused the
systemic risk in the marketplace especially over the last few
years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  