-- N.Z.’s Economic Growth Slows Less Than Forecast; Kiwi Gains
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-09-20T00:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/n-z-s-economic-growth-slows-less-than-forecast-kiwi-gains-1-.html
New Zealand ’s economic growth
slowed less than economists forecast last quarter amid stronger
farm output and construction, bolstering a local currency that’s
the strongest among major developed nations this year.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.6 percent in the three months
ended June 30 from the previous quarter, when it expanded a
revised 1 percent,  Statistics New Zealand  said in a report
released today in Wellington. Growth was stronger than the
central bank’s 0.4 percent projection, which was also the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 10 economists.  A sluggish recovery and weak inflation add to the case for
no change in  interest rates  after the central bank last week
signaled the official cash rate, which has been at a record-low
2.5 percent since March last year, may remain unchanged for
another 12 months. The New Zealand dollar’s 6.8 percent increase
this year dims growth prospects for exporters as incoming
Reserve Bank Governor Graeme Wheeler begins his tenure starting
Sept. 26.  “The economy ended the first half of the year with a
reasonable degree of momentum,” said  Mark Smith , senior
economist at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Wellington. “The
considerable uncertainties over the future outlook are likely to
maintain a high hurdle to cash rate moves, with the RBNZ in no
hurry to move.”  New Zealand’s dollar rose against the U.S. currency after
the data. It bought 82.84 U.S. cents as of 11:50 a.m. in
Wellington from 82.54 cents immediately before the result.  Annual Growth  The economy expanded 2.6 percent in the second quarter from
the year-earlier period, the report showed, faster than the 2.3
percent growth estimated by economists.  The central bank on Sept. 13 forecast annual growth of 2.4
percent for the second quarter. It expects growth will be 2.7
percent for the full calendar year and 3.1 percent in 2013. It
also predicted annual inflation will average less than 2 percent
over the next two years.  Solid Energy New Zealand Ltd., the state-owned coal miner,
last month said it will cut spending and fire about 140 workers
as global coal prices fall. Rio Tinto Group this month said it
will cut 100 jobs at its New Zealand aluminum smelter, citing
difficult economic conditions and weak prices.  ‘Moderate Growth’  “From the government’s perspective, we cannot influence
these external events which are having an impact on New
Zealand,” Finance Minister  Bill English  said in an e-mailed
statement. “We are making good progress and the outlook is for
further moderate growth over the next three or four years.”  The second-quarter expansion was led by farm production
amid favorable weather conditions that helped increase milk
production, today’s data showed. Farm output rose 4.7 percent in
the second quarter following a 2.7 percent gain in the January-
March period.  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s biggest dairy
exporter, said in August that its May-to-July shipments were a
record after indicating in May that milk collection was 10
percent higher than a year earlier.  Construction rose 3.3 percent, led by a record increase in
building roads and bridges, the statistics agency said.
Residential building also gained, boosted by Christchurch
repairs, while non-residential construction is at the lowest
since 2003. Much of the country’s third-largest city was
devastated by an earthquake in February 2011.  Factories, Services  Manufacturing rose 0.8 percent led by machinery and
equipment assembly. Air transport increased as did professional
and business services, which includes legal and advertising.
Real estate services gained as more house sales were completed,
the agency said.  The expenditure measure of GDP rose 0.3 percent in the
quarter, led by investment, today’s report showed.  Investment rose 3.1 percent, led by a rise in business
investment in fixed assets, primarily plant and equipment.
Residential housing investment rose for a fourth straight
quarter, the agency said.  Household spending gained 0.2 percent as purchases of
appliances, vehicles and other durable goods rose. Purchases of
food and other non-durables were little changed, as was spending
on services, the agency said. Spending by residents traveling
overseas declined.  Exports of goods, which make up 30 percent of the economy,
fell 1.2 percent, led by dairy and seafood, today’s data showed.
Still, net exports added to growth because imports fell 2.9
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  