-- Nasdaq-Facebook, Dodd-Frank, Glass-Steagall: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-09-20T12:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/nasdaq-facebook-dodd-frank-glass-steagall-compliance.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , responding
to criticism that it is offering too little to Wall Street firms
hurt in  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s public debut, said the compensation plan
covers “objective, discernible” losses suffered by brokers.  The operator of the second-largest U.S. equity exchange has
no plans to enlarge the pool, it said in a letter to the
Securities and Exchange Commission posted on the agency’s
website.  Citigroup (C)  Inc. said last month that it lost millions of
dollars because of Nasdaq’s mishandling of the initial public
offering and deserves greater reimbursement.  Nasdaq OMX, balancing its role as an organization with
legal immunity against claims related to computer breakdowns
with its obligation to members disadvantaged when it bungled
Facebook’s May 18 IPO, proposed paying $62 million. The payout
would be facilitated by a modification to rules governing
exchange liability overseen by the SEC.  Nasdaq believes the “accommodation  proposal  establishes a
fair, transparent and equitable method of identifying categories
of members for whom Nasdaq’s system issues caused objective,
discernible loss,” it wrote.  Delays and malfunctions on Nasdaq were the first signs of
trouble in the  Facebook IPO , which prompted lawsuits against the
company, its exchange and the underwriters. Citigroup said
losses in its equity market-making unit exceeded its portion of
the pool proposed by Nasdaq OMX in July.  Scott Helfman, a spokesman for Citigroup, declined to
comment beyond the letter submitted last month.  Nasdaq previously told the SEC it would determine how much
to pay by comparing firms’ executions for Facebook to the
average price, weighted by the number of shares traded in a 45-
minute period on May 18. In its  letter  yesterday, Nasdaq said
its calculation is the appropriate one.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Impact of Basel Bank Liquidity Rule Must Be Weighed, EU Says  The European Commission said that while it remains
committed to adopting a “detailed” bank liquidity ratio in
2015, possible negative effects need to be studied.  “Important discussions are going on at the level of the
Basel Committee which will finalize its details on this in
2013,” commission spokesman Stefaan De Rynck said in an e-mail.  The measure, known as a liquidity coverage ratio, or LCR,
would oblige banks to hold enough easy-to-sell assets to survive
a 30-day credit squeeze. The requirement was included by global
regulators in an overhaul of bank rules that was agreed on by
the Group of 20 nations following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  The commission has proposed delaying and weakening banks’
reporting of their compliance with the draft Basel liquidity
rules,  Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the  European Parliament ’s
economic and monetary affairs committee, said in an interview.  Bowles said she would resist the compromise proposal that
was made by the commission to spur negotiations on how to apply
Basel rules in the 27-nation EU, because they would signal a
watering down of the measures.  The commission compromise, obtained by  Bloomberg News ,
would postpone EU decisions on what assets banks would be able
to use to meet the LCR as well as agreements on other parts of
the standard. These include the toughness of the stress scenario
that banks would be measured against.  EU lawmakers and governments must agree on the final
wording of the rules before they can take effect in the bloc.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Republican State AGs Resisting Cooperation With Consumer Bureau  A group of Republican state attorneys general has declined
to sign cooperation agreements with the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, part of an escalating Republican revolt
against the agency that began in the U.S. Congress.  Richard Cordray , the agency’s director, asked all 50 states
in March to sign a memorandum of understanding designed to
protect confidential information shared among states and the
bureau. To date, only 12 states -- all but one with Democratic
attorneys general -- have signed, according to the bureau and
documents obtained in a public records request.  Oklahoma Attorney General  Scott Pruitt  said in an interview
that he is declining to sign the agreement because of legal
objections to the law that created the consumer bureau, the 2010
Dodd-Frank Act.  The CFPB was created by Dodd-Frank to consolidate federal
consumer protection authority in a single agency. It began work
in July 2011. Cooperation with state attorneys general has been
a signature effort of the consumer bureau since Harvard
professor  Elizabeth Warren  began setting it up in late 2010.  Republicans opposed creation of the bureau, and Senate
Republicans refused to confirm anyone to the position of CFPB
director. That standoff led President  Barack Obama  to install
Cordray as director on Jan. 4 using a process known as a recess
appointment.  At least two Republican state attorneys general are
preparing to file a lawsuit as soon as this week challenging the
constitutionality of Dodd-Frank and the powers it granted to the
bureau and its director.  For more, click here.  Markey Seeks High-Speed Trading Investigation After Oil ‘Crash’  Congressman Ed Markey, a Democrat from Massachusetts,
called on the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to broaden
its investigation into the Sept. 17 “flash crash” in  oil
prices .  Markey wants the commission to include in its inquiry the
larger effects of high-frequency trading on the marketplace,
according to an e-mailed statement.  “Wall Street computers could be manipulating the oil
markets,” Markey wrote in a letter to  Gary Gensler , Chairman of
the commission.  High-frequency trading came under regulatory scrutiny after
flash crash in May 2010.  IILM Plans First Islamic Dollar Bills by Year-End After Delays  International Islamic Liquidity Management Corp. , an
institution formed by 12 central banks and two multinational
bodies, said it plans to sell its first Shariah-compliant bills
this year after two delays.  IILM was formed in January 2011 with a mandate to provide
Shariah-compliant lenders with a broader range of instruments in
which to park idle funds and boost returns. The Kuala Lumpur-
based institution postponed its debut sale of Islamic notes last
year and again in June as it awaited a credit rating.  Its first sale of three-month dollar bills will be around
$300 million, Mahmoud AbuShamma, IILM’s chief executive officer,
said in an interview in  Kuala Lumpur . That’s lower than the
original target of as much as $1 billion cited by Malaysia’s
central bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz on March 21, IILM’s then
chairman.  IILM’s founding members include central banks from the
 Middle East , Southeast Asia, Africa, Turkey and Luxembourg,
according to its website. It’s also backed by the Islamic
Development Bank and  Islamic Corporation for the Development of
the Private Sector .  The Kuala Lumpur-based  Islamic Financial Services Board 
estimates the $1.3 trillion Shariah-compliant finance industry
will grow to $2.8 trillion by 2015.  About 85 percent of preparation work is complete, AbuShamma
said. The work includes external agreement, approvals and
regulations across 12 jurisdictions, he said.  Dubai Trader Fined After Hiding Currency Loss With Fake Trade  The  Dubai Financial Services Authority  sanctioned  Credit
Europe Bank (Dubai) Ltd . and its former head of treasury after
he created a fake forward transaction to cover a money-losing
foreign exchange trade.  Credit Bank agreed to pay the authority a fine equivalent
to $50,000 and cease proprietary trading activities until
weaknesses in its internal controls were addressed, according to
a statement yesterday on the website of the DFSA. Ozkan
Demirkaya, who created the transaction, agreed to pay a $20,000
fine and not to perform any financial services in  Dubai’s
International Financial Centre  for three years, according to the
statement.  Demirkaya disclosed the fake trade and the loss to CEBD in
October after determining his earlier position was unlikely to
recover, according to the statement. The DFSA’s investigation
found that the bank did not have “appropriate systems and
controls” in place to detect the fake forward transaction.’’  Eric Schroder, a spokesman for Credit Europe Bank, wasn’t
immediately available to comment when contacted by Bloomberg
News.  Courts  SEC Claims Australia Man Ran $53 Million Forex Trading Fraud  U.S. regulators accused an Australia man of raising at
least $53 million from investors with false claims that he ran a
group of elite foreign-exchange traders who could generate 78
percent annual returns.  Senen Pousa and his Brisbane, Australia-based firm,
Investment Intelligence Corp., promised investors “unlimited”
passive income from his strategy of making only a few select
trades each month with no more than 3 percent of an investors’
capital at risk in any given trade, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said in a lawsuit filed yesterday at federal court in
Austin, Texas. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission filed a
parallel lawsuit Sept. 18.  Pousa’s fraud came to light in May, when investors
discovered their accounts had lost 63 percent of their value
after about 200 trades had occurred in a two-day period, the SEC
said. Pousa later encouraged them to add more capital to their
accounts in order to “recoup the losses faster,” according to
the complaint.  In February, Pousa began to market his strategy through
 Elevation Group Inc. , an investment blog based in Austin.  The SEC and CFTC asked for a court order to freeze Pousa’s
assets in the U.S., a step Australian regulators took in July,
according to the lawsuit.  Brent Baker, an attorney for Elevation Group, said his
client fully cooperated with regulators and “had nothing to do
with the fraud.” Elevation Group “is looking forward to
assisting in any way they can to get money back to investors,”
he said in a telephone interview.  A phone number listed to Pousa’s company in Australia was
disconnected.  The cases are Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Investment Intelligence Corp. PTY LLC, 12-cv-0863, and U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission v. Pousa, 12-cv-0862, U.S.
District Court for the Western District of Texas (Austin).  UBS Overlooked Limits When Trade Made Money, Adoboli Lawyer Says  Kweku Adoboli’s lawyers said  UBS AG (UBSN)  had a culture that
overlooked trading limits and other rules “as long as you were
making money.”  Adoboli lawyer Charles Sherrard said the bank became “more
aggressive in terms of its desire to make profits” in 2011,
during cross examination of one of Adoboli’s former bosses at a
fraud trial in London today.  “The culture, practice at the bank you were working for,
didn’t matter as long as you were making money,” Sherrard said
to Ron Greenidge, who oversaw UBS’s exchange-traded-funds desk
until April of last year.  Adoboli, 32, is on trial on charges of fraud and false
accounting over unauthorized trades that lost $2.3 billion.
Adoboli admitted he risked $5 billion on Standard & Poor’s 500
futures and a further $3.75 billion in the German futures
market, Greenidge said in testimony yesterday.  Greenidge, who worked at UBS for 19 years, said today he
was dismissed for gross misconduct because of Adoboli’s trades.
He said he felt the bank was making him a scapegoat.  Adoboli is charged with falsifying records on ETF
transactions and other documents needed for accounting purposes
as early as October 2008, according to his indictment.
Prosecutors also charged him with fraud for abusing his senior
trader position “by causing or exposing UBS Bank to losses
intending thereby to make a gain for himself.”  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  EU’s Barroso Is ‘Prudent’ on Timing of Banking Union  European Commission  President  Jose Barroso  talked about the
region’s debt crisis, the importance of Greece remaining in the
euro, joint bank oversight for the 17-nation currency area and
the role of political integration in Europe’s future.  Barroso said he is “prudent” about the pace at which
common banking supervision should be established in the euro
area. He spoke in an Internet interview with Euronews in
Brussels yesterday.  For the video, click here.  FDIC’s Hoenig Says Banks May Return to Pre-2008 Risky Behaviors  If big U.S. banks are not forced to sever their investment
arms from traditional banking, they will return to behavior that
led to the 2008 credit crisis, said Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. board member  Thomas Hoenig .  “The behavior and practices leading to this crisis will
soon reemerge and these highly complex, more vulnerable firms
will have an even more devastating effect on the economy,”
Hoenig said in remarks prepared for delivery yesterday at the
Exchequer Club in Washington. “Activities leading to the crisis
continue today -- and continue to be subsidized -- well after
the lessons should have been learned.”  The Glass-Steagall Act should be revived to separate
commercial banking from brokerage operations, Hoenig has argued
repeatedly since before joining the FDIC in April. The banking
industry’s public safety net should not protect trading risks,
according to the former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
Kansas City, who said yesterday firms show signs of returning to
risk-taking without such a move.  He said the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act and its so-called Volcker
rule to ban banks from proprietary trading was insufficient and
that the government safety net will still cover swaps trading
and market making, “much of which could become veiled prop-
trading.”  The big banks won’t “come along willingly” but should be
forced to, Hoenig said.  SEC’s Gallagher Says Retail Bond Investors Fighting ‘Headwinds’  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission should
scrutinize corporate bond markets to determine if retail
investors can find fair prices, said Commissioner Daniel
Gallagher.  Gallagher, a Republican on the five-member commission that
regulates securities trading, called for the agency to look at
the imbalance of information available to retail investors and
institutional traders in a speech yesterday at a financial-
markets conference hosted by Georgetown University’s McDonough
School of Business in Washington.  He said the SEC issued a report this year on the state of
the municipal securities market and should consider a similar
effort with the corporate bond market. That doesn’t necessarily
mean more regulation, he said.  Comings and Goings  Vietnam’s Asia Commercial Bank Chairman, 2 Vice-Chairmen Resign  The board of Vietnam’s  Asia Commercial Bank (ACB)  has accepted
the resignations of Chairman Tran Xuan Gia, a former minister,
and two vice-chairmen, according to a statement on the lender’s
website yesterday.  Gia and the two vice-chairmen, Le Vu Ky and Trinh Kim
Quang, were allegedly “involved in approving” former chief
executive officer Ly Xuan Hai’s alleged authorization of 19 bank
staff to deposit 718 billion dong ($34 million) of ACB’s funds
at Vietnam Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade,
or  VietinBank (CTG) , according to the statement. Quang declined to
comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  Police arrested the lender’s co-founder Nguyen Duc Kien on
Aug. 20, triggering a wave of withdrawals at the bank and
speculation of more arrests in the financial industry. Vietnam
police have announced the arrests of five others since then for
financial violations. Hai was arrested Aug. 24 for alleged
economic mismanagement, police said.  The board of ACB accepted the resignations Sept. 18,
according to the statement. ACB, the nation’s fourth-biggest
lender by market value, has taken legal action against
VietinBank to secure the return of its deposits, Tran Mong Hung,
former chairman and now adviser to ACB’s management board, said
in an interview with Saigon Tiep Thi newspaper published on the
lender’s website Sept. 18.  ACB’s board has appointed Tran Hung Huy as chairman and
Julian Fong Loong Choon and  Luong Van Tu  as vice-chairmen. The
resignations became effective yesterday, Nguyen Thanh Toai,
ACB’s deputy chief executive said by telephone, declining to
give any further details. Gia and Ky could not be immediately
reached for comment, and Nguyen Van Thang, VietinBank’s general
director declined to comment.  Vietnam will clean up its banking system and any
individuals found in violation will be dealt with strictly,
leaving “no restricted areas,” Vu Duc Dam, chairman of the
government office, said in a statement on the state website
earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 