-- New Orleans Wait for Metal Lengthens as Zinc Bookings Climb
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-09-20T15:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/new-orleans-wait-for-metal-lengthens-as-zinc-bookings-climb-1-.html
The metal backlog at warehouses in
New Orleans moved closer to that in  Detroit  and the Dutch port
of Vlissingen as recent bookings to withdraw aluminum and zinc
lengthened the wait by 27 weeks in three days.  Orders to withdraw zinc from New Orleans warehouses
monitored by the  London  Metal Exchange quadrupled over the past
three days, rising 245,975 metric tons to 324,975 tons, bourse
data showed today. Total bookings are at the highest in at least
15 years. Aluminum canceled warrants at the location, as the
orders are known, climbed to 152,500 tons yesterday and today
from 25,000 tons two weeks ago. The U.S. port holds 70 percent
of total LME zinc stockpiles. About 47 percent of zinc there is
earmarked for delivery.  LME rules require warehouses storing more than 900,000 tons
of metal to deliver at least 3,000 tons a day. With canceled
warrants for all metals in  New Orleans  totaling 495,975 tons, it
may take as long as 33 weeks to meet orders for it all. Zinc and
aluminum cancellations of 398,475 tons in the past three days in
New Orleans extended the wait times by about 27 weeks.  In order to take all of the metal at the daily rate the
wait times would be about 33 weeks in New Orleans. This compares
with about a 51-week wait in Vlissingen and about 43 weeks in
Detroit, the two biggest repositories of aluminum.  “Available stockpiles within the LME warehouses are not
easily accessible,” Nic Brown, head of commodities research at
Natixis SA in London, said by phone. “I presume this is going
to be a phenomenon that will be exacerbated when demand for
metal picks up.”  Global zinc  stockpiles  tracked by the LME climbed 6.5
percent to 980,050 tons today, the most since Dec. 14, 2010.
Warehouses monitored by the London bourse in New Orleans contain
689,650 tons of the metal. They have 900,695 tons of zinc,
aluminum, aluminum alloy, copper, lead and steel.  Delivery Rules  The LME revised its delivery rules in April, doubling so-
called load-out rates to 3,000 tons a day for warehouse
companies storing more than 900,000 tons at a single location.
The exchange has reconvened a steering committee before a six-
month review of the daily rates expected in October.  “The subsequent queue the warrant cancellations have
created mean that any fresh zinc units entering New Orleans will
effectively be trapped,” said  Leon Westgate , an analyst at
Standard Bank Plc in London. The mass cancellation activity at
the location “looks unrealistic” and may boost physical
premiums should demand re-emerge, he said in a report yesterday.  Warehouse Operators  There are 59 warehouses approved by the LME to store metals
in New Orleans, according to the exchange  website . Glencore
International Plc’s Pacorini Metals USA LLC owns 28 of them,
while Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Metro International Trade
Services LLC has 22 storage points. Henry Bath LLC, owned by
JPMorgan & Chase Co., has four units and Trafigura Beheer BV-
controlled NEMS (USA) Inc. has three.  Premiums paid for zinc for immediate delivery in the U.S.
have been unchanged since April at 7.5 cents a pound,  data  shows
They climbed to the highest in more than four years in December.  The long wait at locations such as Detroit allows the
warehouse owners to offer “ever-increasing incentives” to
aluminum producers, which continues to push up physical
premiums, according to Nick Madden, senior vice president and
supply-chain officer at Atlanta-based Novelis Inc., which
processes about 3 million tons of aluminum a year. The fees
added to aluminum for immediate delivery in  Europe  and the U.S.
rose to records, according to Platts, owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.  “What has happened in aluminum is in danger of repeating
in zinc as well,” Brown said. “You would expect the market to
behave in a similar manner with premiums rising as people find
it harder to extract metal from warehouses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  