-- New U.S. Embassy in London Clears Last Hurdle for 2017 Opening
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-09-20T13:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/new-u-s-embassy-in-london-clears-last-hurdle-for-2017-opening.html
The U.S. Embassy’s move to a new
building in southwest  London  in 2017 cleared its final planning
hurdle after the local authority approved detailed plans for the
facility.  The Wandsworth Council last night agreed to final
specifications for the 11-story cube-shaped building designed by
 KieranTimberlake  that will be built on a 2.15-hectare (5.3-acre)
site in Nine Elms, about a mile from the Houses of Parliament,
the council said in a statement.  Preliminary work has started in preparing the site and B.L.
Harbert International LLC, a Birmingham, Alabama-based
contractor, is scheduled to break ground next year. The U.S.
State Department agreed to sell the existing embassy building on
Grosvenor Square, Mayfair, to Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment
Co. three years ago to fund the relocation.  The future embassy will sit in the center of a park,
protected by a security screen on its southern perimeter with
three entry pavilions. The north side will feature a pond and
gardens landscaped to hide security boundaries. The planners aim
to get a BREEAM environmental rating of “outstanding,” for the
building’s features such as solar panels and wildlife habitats,
the council said. It would be one of just 30 buildings in the
world to receive the highest rating.  The embassy is one of the centerpieces of a 10 billion-
pound ($16.2 billion)  regeneration program of the Nine Elms 
district of Wandsworth, which will also involve the renovation
and development on the site of the derelict Battersea Power
Station. The 400 million-pound purchase of the station site was
completed earlier this month by a group of Malaysian investors.  The 195-hectare Nine Elms district is  Europe ’s largest
regeneration program, involving former industrial sites near the
 River Thames . There is planning consent for 2 million square
meters (21.5 million square feet) of development including
shops, offices and schools as well as 16,000 homes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen in London at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  