-- News Corp. Said to Weigh Giving James Murdoch TV Role
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-09-21T01:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/news-corp-said-to-weigh-giving-james-murdoch-tv-role.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  is considering giving
Deputy Chief Operating Officer  James Murdoch  oversight of its
U.S. television operations, according to people with knowledge
of the situation.  Murdoch would oversee the Fox broadcast network and cable
channels including FX, said the people, who requested anonymity
because the deliberations are private. Peter Rice, chairman and
chief executive officer of Fox Networks Group, would report to
Murdoch, the people said. A decision hasn’t been made, they
said.  The 39-year-old son of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Rupert Murdoch  has been seeking a more defined role at News
Corp. after moving to  New York  from  London  and stepping down
from roles heading the company’s U.K. newspapers and as chairman
of British Sky Broadcasting Plc. His rise in the corporation
stalled amid criticism of his handling of the hacking scandal at
the News of the World publication.  “It’s a way to get him back in the game without any
regulatory issues,” said Brett Harriss, an analyst at Gabelli &
Co. in Rye, New York, who recommends buying the  stock . “He’s
the heir apparent, he’s not going to be relegated to the
sidelines.”  The U.S. cable and television businesses would hand Murdoch
much of a portfolio that  contributed  41 percent of News Corp.’s
revenue in the year ended June 30, and 74 percent of operating
income. The Fox News cable channel would remain under Roger Ailes, the people said.  Murdoch was promoted to deputy COO, under President and
Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey , in March 2011. The company
said in February that he would focus on pay-TV and international
television businesses.  ‘Ill-Judged’  The New York-based media company has been trying to move
past the scandal. Yesterday, U.K. regulators criticized James
Murdoch’s response to the hacking, which has led to arrests,
resignations and a series of investigations. Ofcom, the U.K.
media regulator and competition authority, said in a report that
BSkyB, 39 percent owned by News Corp., could keep its broadcast
license.  “We consider James Murdoch’s conduct, including his
failure to initiate action on his own account on a number of
occasions, to be both difficult to comprehend and ill-judged,”
Ofcom said.  Murdoch resigned as chairman of News International in
February, following revelations of the hacking scandal. In
April, he stepped down as chairman of pay-TV company  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , amid demands that he resign.  Company Split  News Corp. has announced several management changes since
announcing in June plans to split into separate publishing and
entertainment businesses. The Financial Times reported yesterday
that James Murdoch may gain oversight of television.  In a statement yesterday, News Corp. defended James
Murdoch, saying the Ofcom report confirmed there was no evidence
of wrongdoing.  “We disagree, however, with certain of the report’s
statements about James Murdoch’s prior actions as an executive
and director, which are not at all substantiated by evidence,”
the company said. The company said he deserves credit for his
record at BSkyB during his tenure.  News Corp. competes with Bloomberg LP, owner of  Bloomberg
News , in providing financial news and information. The company’s
Class A shares added 0.6 percent to $25.02 yesterday in New
York. They have gained 40 percent this year.  “The U.S. public markets will be extremely disappointed,”
said  Laura Martin , an Pasadena, California-based analyst at
Needham & Co. who recommends buying News Corp. shares. “If his
last name wasn’t Murdoch he wouldn’t be considered for this
position.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  