-- Government Consents Next Hurdle for Cnooc in Nexen Bid
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-09-20T20:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/nexen-shareholders-approve-cnooc-s-15-1-billion-takeover.html
Nexen Inc. (NXY)  shareholders’ approval
of  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion bid for the Canadian energy
producer leaves the fate of the biggest Chinese takeover in the
hands of three foreign governments as opposition mounts.  About 99 percent of the holders who voted yesterday cast
ballots in favor of the takeover, S. Barry Jackson, Nexen’s non-
executive chairman, said at a special meeting in Calgary. Cnooc,
China’s largest offshore oil and natural-gas producer, agreed to
pay $27.50 a share for Calgary-based Nexen in an offer announced
July 23.  The deal still  needs  approval from the Canadian, U.S. and
U.K. governments.  Canada  reviews foreign acquisitions valued at
more than C$330 million ($338 million) to ensure there’s a “net
benefit” to the country. Almost seven out of 10 Canadians say
the government shouldn’t approve the Cnooc bid, according to a
poll released yesterday by Abacus Data Inc.  “What we’re seeing is a wide range of opinions, as you’ve
identified, and I think that’s healthy to have a debate on
whether that’s in the best interest of Canada,” Nexen Chief
Executive Officer Kevin Reinhart told reporters after the
meeting. He declined to comment on negotiations between Cnooc
and the three governments and said Nexen is responding to all
data requests.  Rob Anders, a member of Parliament from  Alberta , said this
week that he and others in Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s
 Conservative Party  have concerns about asset sales to China.  Pursuing Approvals  Sixty-nine percent of respondents to the Abacus  poll  oppose
the deal, up 12 percentage points from a similar survey in
August. The poll of 1,208 people from Sept. 14-18 has a margin
of error of 2.9 percent.  Cnooc said it welcomed the Nexen shareholders’ vote and
“will continue to pursue all regulatory approvals required to
close the transaction,” according to an e-mailed statement from
Peter Hunt, a spokesman for Cnooc.  Nexen rose 0.2 percent to close at C$24.72 in Toronto. The
shares have gained 52 percent this year.  Commitments that Cnooc made when the deal was first
announced will probably secure Canadian approval, said Bob
Schultz, a strategic management professor at the University of
Calgary. The undertakings included retaining Nexen employees,
listing on the Toronto Stock Exchange and making Nexen’s Calgary
office Cnooc’s headquarters for North and Central America.  Nexen isn’t a “Canadian icon” in the  oil sands  that
should be “off limits” to foreign takeovers, such as  Suncor
Energy Inc. (SU) ,  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE)  and  Canadian Natural Resources
Ltd. (CNQ) , because the majority of Nexen’s cash flow and  assets  are
offshore, Schultz said yesterday in an interview.  ‘Low Risk’                         Nexen produces crude from its Long Lake oil-sands project
in Alberta, as well as projects in the  North Sea , offshore West
Africa and the  Gulf of Mexico . U.S. authorities can block the
sale of Nexen’s Gulf assets.  About 30 percent of Nexen’s oil and gas production is in
Canada, according to Philip Skolnick, a research analyst at
Canaccord Financial Inc. in  New York  who rates Nexen a sell and
doesn’t own the shares. There’s a “low risk” the Canadian
government will block the deal or impose onerous conditions,
Skolnick said in a Sept. 19 phone interview.  The government said Aug. 29 it had received Cnooc’s
application to buy Nexen. Canada has 45 days to examine the deal
and may extend that deadline by 30 days. The federal government
in 2010 rejected Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s hostile $40
billion bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the second
takeover since 1985 to be blocked under Canadian law.  ‘Policy Framework’  Harper said he would release a “policy framework” for
foreign takeovers with his decision on Cnooc’s bid. Investors
are watching the government’s reaction for an indication of
Canada’s openness to investment, Natural Resources Minister Joe
Oliver said in a Sept. 18 interview in  Tokyo .  The decision will impact global foreign direct investment
in Canada and the country’s relationship with China, Peter Harder, senior policy adviser at Fraser Milner Casgrain LLP in
Ottawa, said yesterday in a phone interview.  The government will consider “broader” issues in its
review of the Cnooc offer, including how much of Canada’s energy
assets it will allow state-owned companies to control, said
Harder, the president of the Canada  China  Business Council and a
former federal deputy minister of Industry.  Cnooc’s offer was “well constructed” to meet Canada’s
net-benefit test, he said. “On the merits of the case, and on
the broader considerations of the relationship, the deal at the
end of the day ought to be approved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  