-- Nike to Spend $8 Billion Buying Back Shares Over 4 Years
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-09-20T03:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/nike-announces-8-billion-plan-to-buy-back-class-b-shares.html
Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest
maker of sporting goods, announced an $8 billion, four-year
program to repurchase shares of its class B common stock.  The company has a $5 billion share-buying authorization
that will be completed during the fiscal second quarter of 2013,
the Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike said in a statement. Nike
announced the current four-year program in September 2008.  “Repurchasing our shares is a prudent use of our  cash ,”
Chief Executive Officer  Mark Parker  said in the statement.
“This new share repurchase program demonstrates our continued
confidence in Nike’s strategy to generate long-term profitable
growth and strong  cash flow , and reflects our commitment to
delivering value to our shareholders.”  Nike has posted declining fourth-quarter profit margins on
higher costs for labor and raw materials. Earnings in the period
ended May fell for the first time since 2009. To improve
results, the company has raised prices and plans to sell its
Cole Haan and Umbro units to focus on its most profitable
businesses.  The announcement came after  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) , the largest
provider of  prescription drugs  in the U.S., said it approved a
buyback of as much as $6 billion in shares.  Nike was little changed at $97.67 in  New York  trading
yesterday and has gained 1.3 percent this year. The stock had
climbed 89 percent in the three years through 2011.  The shoemaker had about 361 million shares of Class B
common stock outstanding as of Aug. 31, the company said. The
company’s  market value  was $44.3 billion at the close in New
York. It had $2.32 billion of cash on its  balance sheet  as of
May 31.  The company will host its annual shareholders  meeting 
tomorrow in Beaverton, Oregon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  