-- Noda’s Election Decision Looms After Winning Japan Party Contest
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-09-21T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/noda-poised-to-keep-premiership-as-japan-s-national-vote-looms.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s victory in a ruling party leadership race brings him
closer to a decision on whether to call elections as he
confronts a slowing economy and a territorial spat with  China .  Noda won yesterday’s  Democratic Party  of  Japan  contest,
allowing him to remain premier because the DPJ controls the more
powerful lower house of parliament. The main opposition  Liberal
Democratic Party  chooses its leader next week, increasing
pressure on Noda to sell himself to voters ahead of an election
he must call by August 2013.  The country’s sixth leader in as many years must now push
through a bill to fund this year’s budget amid concern the
economy may contract as it struggles to recover from last year’s
earthquake and nuclear disaster. With the public split over his
sales tax increase, Noda also faces the threat of an insurgent
political force led by Osaka Mayor Toru Hashimoto.  “The leadership race was a distraction,” said Ellis Krauss, a professor of Japanese politics at the  University of
California ,  San Diego . “Noda’s problem is convincing the public
that the consumption tax hike was necessary and dealing with a
recalcitrant opposition, deciding when to call an election,
changing nuclear energy policies, and a troublesome China.”  Noda won 68 percent of the vote, defeating former internal
affairs minister Kazuhiro Haraguchi and ex-farm ministers
Hirotaka Akamatsu and Michihiko Kano.  “There are times when I have to make decisions even if it
means dividing the party or public opinion,” Noda said in a
victory speech. “I have felt the weight of that intensely over
the past year.”  DPJ Defectors  Since taking office in September 2011, he won approval for
a bill to double the  consumption tax  to 10 percent by 2015. In
return for opposition backing for the levy, he shelved many of
his party’s election pledges, such as providing minimum pension
benefits, and promised to call an election “soon.”  Lawmakers opposed to Noda’s compromises defected from the
party, threatening its majority in the lower house. A Yomiuri
newspaper poll published Sept. 18 showed 31 percent of
respondents planned to vote for the LDP in the proportional
representation section of the next election, compared with 14
percent for Noda’s DPJ and 16 percent for Hashimoto’s party.  “Noda has not been able to sell his accomplishments in a
way that gets through to the public,” said Steven Reed, a
political science professor at Chuo University in  Tokyo . “He
does have accomplishments and supporters of the Democrats are
perfectly aware of that, but it’s not clear to anybody else.”  Hashimoto’s Rise  Noda will shuffle his cabinet and party leadership
positions by the end of the month, replacing DPJ Secretary-
General Azuma Koshiishi, the Nikkei newspaper said yesterday,
without citing anyone. Potential replacements include Finance
Minister  Jun Azumi , Deputy Prime Minister  Katsuya Okada  and
policy chief  Seiji Maehara , the newspaper said. Asked about the
report, Noda said a reshuffle “is possible.”  Hashimoto has won backing of seven members of parliament,
enabling him to register his group as a political party. The
former lawyer and television commentator said he plans to field
candidates across the country in the next election, without
running for a parliamentary seat himself.  Meanwhile, Noda faces challenges including the phasing out
of atomic power and the risk the government will run out of
money because of a parliamentary deadlock over financing. The
world’s third-largest economy, which contracted last year after
the earthquake and Fukushima nuclear disaster, grew at half the
pace initially estimated in the second quarter.  ‘Disliked Incumbent’  “Sooner or later he will have to face the electorate,”
said  Koichi Nakano , a professor of political science at  Sophia
University  in Tokyo. “For them he is a much-disliked incumbent.
He needs to convince them that he’s better than the
alternative.”  Much will depend on the stance taken by the new head of the
LDP, set to be selected on Sept. 26, Nakano said. LDP candidates
include current Secretary-General Nobuteru Ishihara, former
defense minister Shigeru Ishiba and ex-premier Shinzo Abe.  Noda must also carefully navigate the re-ignited
territorial row with China, said Alessio Patalano, a lecturer in
war studies at King’s College in London. The government last
week completed a deal to purchase islands in the  East China Sea 
known as the Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese, setting
off protests throughout China that have imperiled a $340 billion
trade relationship.  Before yesterday’s vote, Noda said Japan must be firm
“without being provocative or being provoked” on territorial
issues. He will give a speech at the  United Nations General
Assembly  in  New York  next week that may refer to the dispute
with China, Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura told
reporters.  “Basically what they can try to do is establish a hot line
to the Chinese government,” Patalano said. “There is nothing
to be gained at this stage by Japan having its constabulary or
military forces be any louder than they are.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  