-- NY Among 5 States Facing Higher Fannie Mae Mortgage Fees
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-09-20T18:21:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/ny-among-5-states-facing-higher-fannie-mae-mortgage-fees.html
Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  would
charge lenders more to guarantee mortgages in five states where
foreclosure delays are pushing up the cost of bad debt,
according to a plan by the companies’ U.S. regulator.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency ’s proposal may pinch
borrowers in  New York ,  New Jersey ,  Connecticut ,  Florida  and
 Illinois  as those states have higher average total costs for
defaulted loans, according to a notice today requesting public
input. The agency is proposing a one-time upfront fee of 0.15
percent to 0.3 percent on loans originated in those states that
would take effect in 2013.  The FHFA said it’s targeting states where mandatory court
involvement or regulatory policies prolong foreclosures and lead
to higher carrying costs, the expenses associated with holding
onto vacant properties.  The approach allows that each state establishes foreclosure
rules “that it judges to be appropriate for its residents,”
FHFA Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco wrote in the notice. “It
also recognizes that unusual costs associated with practices
outside of the norm in the rest of the country should be borne
by the citizens of that particular state rather than absorbed by
borrowers in other states or by taxpayers.”  The main causes of cost differences by state are the length
of time it takes to get title to a property, property taxes and
legal and operational expenses during that time, DeMarco said.  ‘Outrageous’ Proposal  Senator  Robert Menendez , a Democrat from New Jersey, called
the proposal “outrageous” in a statement released today.  “After banks preyed on homeowners with subprime loans and
improper foreclosures, FHFA now wants to penalize homeowners in
states that have strong consumer protections to stop banks from
wrongfully foreclosing,” Menendez said.  The proposal was described as a “measured response” by
Tim Rood, managing partner at Collingwood LLC, a Washington-
based consulting firm.  “There is a very legitimate economic argument to be made
for raising these fees,” he said in an e-mail.  The FHFA probably will eventually expand the risk-based
pricing to other states with higher-than-average foreclosure
costs,  Jaret Seiberg , senior policy analyst at Guggenheim
Securities, said in an e-mail.  “There is simply no reason why borrowers in states with
efficient foreclosure systems should subsidize borrowers in
states that make it difficult for lenders to obtain the
collateral on defaulted loans,” Seiberg said.  Seeking Average  It takes an average of 820 days to bring a foreclosed
property to market in New York, where daily carrying costs are
112 percent of the national average, according to the FHFA.
Virginia takes an average of 270 days to bring a foreclosure to
market and carrying costs are 87 percent of the national
average, making the state the least costly and most timely.  States that change foreclosure policies to cut costs so
they are in line with the national average could have the extra
fees reduced or eliminated, according to DeMarco.  Banks could pass along the cost of the fee increase to
borrowers through higher  interest rates , according to the FHFA.
A borrower with a 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage of $200,000 could
face an additional $3.50 to $7 in monthly payments, the agency
said.  The FHFA asked for public comments to be filed within 60
days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  