-- Crude Oil Rebounds to Trim Biggest Weekly Decline Since June
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-09-21T07:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/oil-rebounds-on-bets-biggest-weekly-fall-since-june-exaggerated.html
Oil advanced in  New York  as
investors speculated that the biggest weekly decline in more
than three months was exaggerated.  November futures rose as much as 1.2 percent after front-
month prices slid 7.2 percent in the four days through
yesterday, when the October contract expired. New York crude has
technical support after settling below the lower Bollinger Band
at $92.55 a barrel the past two days. The last time it closed
below the band on June 21, oil gained 12 percent over the next
eight trading sessions. Prices may fall next week on concern
economic growth will slow, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  “Financial oil positions sold off in June are now being
rebuilt,” said Torbjoern Kjus, an Oslo-based senior oil analyst
with  DNB ASA (DNB) , in an interview in Singapore. “Usually it doesn’t
take more than nervousness to create a sell-off.”  Oil for November delivery advanced as much as $1.06 to
$93.48 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $93.41 at 3:10 p.m. Singapore time. It
climbed 12 cents yesterday to $92.42. The October contract
expired at $91.87, down 11 cents. Front-month prices are down
5.6 percent this week, the biggest decline since the period
ended June 1.  Brent oil for November settlement climbed 88 cents to
$110.91 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark grade’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate was at $17.53, down from $17.61 yesterday.  Inflation Concerns  “When you see an unexpected sharp price drop like that,
you normally see a peak to valley move about $10 from high to
low and then the buyers come in,” said  Phil Flynn , a senior
market analyst at the Price Futures Group in Chicago. “We
should see a 30 percent to 50 percent recovery of the crude
price drop in short order.”  Investors may be buying oil to hedge against inflation
concerns after central banks announced stimulus measures, Kjus
said. The  European Central Bank  announced an unlimited bond-
purchase program Sept. 6 and the U.S. Federal Reserve pledged a
third round of debt-buying Sept. 13.  “People start to fear inflation and that’s positive for
 oil prices ,” said Kjus. “When the central banks increase
liquidity, there’s more money seeking excess returns. That’s
also a reason to buy oil.”  New York crude may decline next week after reports from
Asia, Europe and  North America  fueled concern that global
economic growth is slowing, according to the Bloomberg survey.
Thirteen of 27 analysts, or 48 percent, forecast oil will drop
through Sept. 28. Seven respondents predicted that futures will
gain and seven said there will be little change in prices.  Sufficiently Supplied  The oil market is sufficiently supplied, and additional
crude is coming from Saudi Arabia,  Canada  and the U.S., the
 International Energy Agency ’s executive director, Maria van der Hoeven, said yesterday in Madrid.  Oil prices are set to decline over the next six to nine
months because of rising production from the U.S.,  David Martin ,
an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said at a conference in
London yesterday.  A fire at a fuel-storage tank at Petroleos de Venezuela
SA’s El Palito refinery should be put out today, according to
the country’s President  Hugo Chavez . A second tank blaze was
extinguished yesterday.  The fires were triggered by lightning that struck a seal on
the tanks at 7:30 p.m. Sept. 19 during a rainstorm, Oil Minister
 Rafael Ramirez  said in a telephone call aired on state TV.
Trucks used foam to extinguish the second fire, he said.  U.S. gasoline futures extended yesterday’s 2.7 percent
gain, climbing 0.8 percent today to $2.9278 a gallon on the
Nymex. Prices gained amid concerns of declining supply after the
Venezuela fire and as Irving Oil Corp. shut a fuel-making fluid
catalytic cracker at it Saint John refinery in New Brunswick.
The 298,800 barrel-a-day Canadian plant exports half of its
output to the U.S. Northeast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  