-- Oil Falls to Six-Week Low on China Slowdown, Supply Surge
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-09-20T12:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/oil-falls-to-six-week-low-on-china-slowdown-u-s-supply-surge.html
Oil traded near a six-week low
after U.S. stockpiles climbed the most since March, Chinese
manufacturing shrank and Japanese exports fell, signaling fuel
demand may be slowing among the world’s biggest crude users.  Futures were little changed after declining as much as 1.4
percent. U.S. oil inventories surged  8.5 million barrels  last
week as  Gulf of Mexico  production resumed after Hurricane Isaac,
Energy Department data showed yesterday.  China ’s manufacturing
may contract an 11th month, according to a purchasing managers
index by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.  Japan ’s
overseas sales fell a third month in August, the  Finance
Ministry  said.  “China is still growing at reasonable levels, but the sky-
rocketing growth rates seen in the past couple of years looks to
be over,” said Michael Poulsen, an analyst at Global Risk
Management in Middelfart,  Denmark , who predicts  Brent crude  will
remain at $107 to $108 a barrel next week. “China still has a
lot of economic tools left compared to the west, so I expect a
soft or orderly landing to have the best odds.”  Oil for October delivery slid as much as $1.32 to $90.66 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the lowest since Aug. 6, and was at $91.68 at 1:31
p.m. London time. The contract, which expires today, slid $3.31
yesterday to $91.98, the lowest close since Aug. 3. The more-
active November future was at $92.04 a barrel, down 0.3 percent.
Front-month prices are 7.3 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for November settlement rose 51 cents to $108.72
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
front-month European benchmark grade’s premium to the
corresponding West Texas Intermediate contract was at $16.68 a
barrel. It narrowed to as little as $15.58, the lowest on an
intraday basis since July 26.  China, Japan  China’s purchasing managers index had a preliminary reading
of 47.8, compared with a final 47.6 in August. That puts the
gauge on track for the longest run below 50, the dividing line
between expansion and contraction, in the survey’s eight-year
history. Japan’s exports fell 5.8 percent in August from a year
earlier.  The gain in U.S., crude inventories was the biggest since
March 30 and compared with a forecast increase of 1 million
barrels in a Bloomberg News survey. Stockpiles climbed to 367.6
million barrels, a six-week high. Imports advanced 15 percent to
9.85 million barrels a day and production rose 14 percent to
6.28 million a day.  “We saw that significant increase in crude inventories in
the U.S., and that’s probably because the Gulf platforms are
coming back on-stream post Isaac,” said  David Lennox , an
analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney. “There is still some
weakness in the demand side of the equation.”  Fuel Supplies  While total U.S. crude stockpiles gained, inventories at
Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for the West Texas
contract traded on Nymex, declined for a second week by 274,000
barrels to 43.8 million, the lowest level since April.  Stockpiles of  gasoline  and of  distillate fuel , a category
that includes heating oil and diesel, declined. Refinery
operating rates rose to 88.9 percent from the previous week’s
84.7 percent as plants resumed units idled when Hurricane Isaac
made landfall on Aug. 28.  The U.S., China and Japan accounted for about 37 percent of
the world’s oil consumption last year, according to BP Plc’s
Statistical Review of World Energy.  The  International Energy Agency  considers oil markets to be
sufficiently supplied, Executive Director Maria Van Der Hoeven
said in  Madrid  today, echoing comments by OPEC Secretary-General
Abdalla Salem El-Badri in a speech yesterday.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ spare
production capacity is at “comfortable levels,” and commercial
inventories “remain healthy,” El-Badri said at the European
Mineral Resources Conference in Leoben,  Austria , according to a
transcript on OPEC’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  