-- Oil Little Changed as Jobless Claims Curb Gasoline Rally
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-09-20T19:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/oil-falls-to-six-week-low-on-u-s-jobless-claims-europe-economy.html
Oil was little changed as gasoline
and heating oil futures climbed while more Americans than
forecast applied for  unemployment benefits .  Crude fell 11 cents, extending the weekly loss to 7.2
percent. Gasoline rose on falling East Coast supplies. The Labor
Department said jobless  claims  reached 382,000 last week, more
than the 375,000 forecast by economists polled by Bloomberg. Oil
slumped yesterday after the Energy Department reported crude
stockpiles surged  8.53 million barrels .  “The strong gasoline price is a little supportive, ” said
 Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the Price Futures Group in
 Chicago . “The claims number was pretty disappointing. We’ve
come down a lot in the past few days and the market is due for a
rebound.”  Oil for October delivery settled at $91.87 a barrel on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange , the fourth consecutive decline.
The contract expired today. The more-active November futures
rose 12 cents to $92.42.  Brent oil for November settlement rose $1.74, or 1.6
percent, to $109.93 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The front-month European benchmark grade’s
premium to the corresponding West Texas Intermediate contract
widened for the first time in six days.  Gasoline jumped 2.7 percent after the Energy Department
said yesterday East Coast  stockpiles  of the fuel dropped 4.6
percent last week to 47.8 million barrels, the lowest level
since October 2008. Gasoline for October delivery increased 7.54
cents to end the session at $2.904 a gallon.  Gasoline Supply  Total  inventories  fell 1.41 million barrels to 196.3
million, the eighth consecutive decline and also the lowest
level since October 2008.  “Gasoline is very strong as we still have issues about
very low supplies in the Northeast, and that’s pulling oil up
along with it,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork
Group Inc. in Villanova, Pennsylvania.  Gasoline also rose as  Petroleos de Venezuela SA , the state
oil company, worked to extinguish a naphtha tank fire at its El
Palito refinery. The fires were triggered by lightning that
struck a seal on the tanks at 7:30 p.m. yesterday, Oil Minister
 Rafael Ramirez  said in a telephone call broadcast on state
television.  Oil fell earlier as the Labor Department revised the
previous week’s jobless claims up to 385,000 from an initially
reported 382,000 and as the euro weakened against the dollar.  ‘Market Concerned’  “The market is still concerned about the economic
situation and the U.S. jobless report doesn’t look good,” said
 Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research
in Winchester, Massachusetts.  Futures also slipped on reports of economic weakness in
Europe and Asia. London-based Markit Economics’  index  of euro-
area services and manufacturing declined to a 39-month low in
September.  Manufacturing in China, the world’s fastest-growing energy
consuming country, may contract for an 11th month, according to
the purchasing managers index by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit.
In Japan, exports fell 5.8 percent in August from a year
earlier, the  Finance Ministry  said.  The U.S., China and Japan accounted for about 37 percent of
the world’s oil consumption last year, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy.  More Crude  The oil market is sufficiently supplied and more crude is
coming from  Saudi Arabia , Canada and the U.S., Maria van der Hoeven,  International Energy Agency ’s executive director, said
in  Madrid . Last month, the Group of Seven nations said emergency
stockpiles such as the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve may need
to be tapped to curb prices.  “The IEA comment takes away the threat of an SPR release,
and that’s kind of positive,” said Tom Pawlicki, director of
market research at Chicago-based EOXLive and previously an
analyst at MF Global.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 436,906
contracts as of 2:43 p.m. Volume totaled 807,916 contracts
yesterday, 49 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.59 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  