-- Oklahoma, South Carolina, Michigan Join Dodd-Frank Attack
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-09-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/oklahoma-south-carolina-michigan-join-dodd-frank-attack.html
Oklahoma, along with  South Carolina 
and Michigan, joined a lawsuit challenging the constitutionality
of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act that overhauled financial regulation
and created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  The states, in an amended complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in Washington, said they’re only challenging the
portion of the Dodd-Frank law that empowers the Treasury
Secretary to order a liquidation of a financial company whose
collapse may threaten the stability of the banking system.  The law “denies the subject company and its creditors
constitutionally required notice and a meaningful opportunity to
be heard before their property is taken,” the states said in
the complaint.  The lawsuit was filed in June by a small bank in Texas and
the Competitive Enterprise Institute, a group that advocates for
limited government, alleging that the law setting up the CFPB
violates the U.S. Constitution because Congress doesn’t
appropriate its budget, the president has limited ability to
remove its director and the courts face restrictions in
reviewing its actions.  Charles Miller , a Justice Department spokesman, declined to
comment on the filing. The government has until Oct. 26 to
respond to the original complaint, according to court records.  Republican Opposition  Oklahoma and South Carolina are among a group of Republican
state attorneys general that declined to sign cooperation
agreements with the consumer bureau, part of an escalating
Republican revolt against the agency that began in the  U.S.
Congress .  Richard Cordray , the agency’s director, asked all 50 states
in March to sign a memorandum of understanding designed to
protect confidential information shared among states and the
bureau. To date, only 12 states -- all but one with Democratic
attorneys general -- have signed, according to the bureau and
documents obtained in a public records request.  Dodd-Frank was enacted in 2010 to curb the kinds of
transactions that led to the 2008 financial crisis. In addition
to creating the CFPB, it imposed new rules on derivatives,
limits the ability of banks to trade on their own account and
imposes an array of new rules for mortgages.  Dodd-Frank allows the federal government to block states
from recovering investments if a bank fails, Oklahoma Attorney
General  Scott Pruitt  said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Pick Winners’  “Dodd-Frank empowers un-elected federal bureaucrats to
pick winners and losers, liquidate entire companies, and decide
which contracts are kept and which are broken, without
congressional oversight or proper judicial review,” South
Carolina Attorney General  Alan Wilson  said in an e-mailed
statement.  “If a large financial institution fails, holding state
pension contributions and tax dollars, the states have very
little ability to recover their citizens’ assets,” he said.  Michigan’s public-employee pension funds hold “substantial
fixed-income investments” in financial companies, Michigan
Attorney General Bill Schuette said in an e-mailed statement.  “This lawsuit is necessary to safeguard Michigan’s pension
funds and protect current and future retirees,” he said.  Appointment Challenged  The lawsuit, filed by the State National Bank of Big
Spring, Texas, argues in addition that the CFPB’s structure
violates the principle of separation of powers. The bank also
challenged Cordray’s appointment.  Defendants include Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner ,
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke , Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro , Commodity and Futures Trading
Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler  and Cordray.  The bank is being represented by C. Boyden Gray, a former
White House counsel to President  George H.W. Bush  who is a
member of the board of  directors  of the Federalist Society, a
conservative legal group.  The case is State National Bank of Big Spring v. Geithner,
12-cv-01032, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  