-- Hollande Faces Defeat on Energy Price Caps as Gas Suppliers Sue
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-09-20T23:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/hollande-faces-defeat-on-energy-price-caps-as-gas-suppliers-sue.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
has made capping energy prices a centrepiece policy to help
households pressed by stagnant economic growth. It’s a campaign
he’s likely to lose.  The government capped the latest rise in natural gas at 2
percent, far below the 7 percent former monopoly GDF Suez SA
deemed necessary to cover supply costs. The move is a necessary
part of “protecting consumer purchasing power,” Finance
Minister  Pierre Moscovici  and Environment Minister Delphine Batho said this week.  The problem for Hollande is that judges are likely to say
consumers have to pay higher prices. For the past year, a
convoluted price-setting system has emerged in  France  that has
seen GDF Suez and rivals sue the government over increases they
deem too low to cover costs and enable competition in the
domestic market. The country’s highest court has consistently
ruled in favor of the companies.  “It’s pure political posturing,” Per Lekander, a
utilities analyst at UBS AG, said by telephone. “The government
knows it will be taken to court so the situation is
ridiculous.”  A weakening economy has seen Hollande’s approval rating
drop to 40 percent from 62 percent in May, the month he was
elected, a poll in Le Parisien newspaper this month showed.
France has shown no economic growth in three quarters and
unemployment has risen to a 13-year high.  ‘Spiralling Upward’  “Energy prices are a very sensitive subject
politically,” said Jerome Fourquet, a pollster at Ifop in
Paris. “The government’s decisions may buy some time, but
prices are spiraling upward.”  The French government’s ability to control prices stems
from the past monopoly positions of  GDF Suez (GSZ)  and power utility
Electricite de France SA, which remain dominant on the domestic
market more than five years after it was thrown open to
competition.  Other than setting tariffs, Fourquet said, the government
can allow shale gas development to boost local supply, an option
Hollande has rejected, or try to encourage home insulation to
lower energy demand over the longer term.  France’s gas suppliers want the pricing regime changed,
according to Fabien Chone, president of Anode, the organization
representing gas companies other than GDF that took legal action
against the previous government’s tariff freeze.  “The regulator should be given real power to set prices so
the government isn’t involved,” he said.  Gas for Heating  Anode is considering another round of legal action against
the latest government decision on rates from Oct. 1, according
to Chone. GDF Suez hasn’t excluded it either. The three-month
period when homes start using natural gas for heating is more
important for utilities’ earnings than the previous quarter,
when a 2 percent increase was also granted.  French gas companies’ tariff tussles have spanned the
political spectrum. After years of back room wrangling, it was a
rate freeze under former President  Nicolas Sarkozy  that pushed
GDF Suez Chief Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet to take the
utility’s biggest shareholder to court last October ahead of the
crucial winter heating season.  GDF Suez, which is 35 percent owned by the state, said last
year’s rate freeze would result in a shortfall of 290 million
euros. Under Sarkozy, the utility had already accumulated an
earnings shortfall of about 2 billion euros between mid 2007 and
the end of 2009, when a deal was reached with the government
that was supposed to take politics out of the process.  Recoup Shortfall  Even with the court backing, GDF Suez investors face
uncertainty about revenue in its home country. The French
regulator had advised an increase in tariffs of as much as 10
percent a year ago and the government allowed 4.4 percent from
Jan. 1 and no change in March, when the election campaign was
heating up. The utility has said it will recoup an average of
about 40 euros per French household for the 2011 shortfall, but
this will be spread out through the middle of 2014.  “Although courts have ruled that GDF Suez was entitled to
recoup its loss from customers, this is not a sustainable
solution since the French government is currently working on
changing the tariff law with the aim of keeping gas prices in
check,” Michel Debs, analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote
in an e-mail.  Hollande’s government has unveiled a draft of a so-called
progressive tariff law aimed at lowering utility bills for
energy-efficient households. At the same time, it stipulates a
four-fold increase to 4 million poor households eligible for
lower so-called social rates.  Debate Erupts  Before debate over gas rates erupted this month, the
government turned its sights on fuel prices at the pump. It
announced a three month tax rebate of three cents a litre, which
will cost the government 300 million euros, and strong-armed
distributors including  Total SA (FP)  and supermarket chains  Carrefour
SA (CA)  and E. Leclerc to match the cut.  In addition to pushing carmakers to improve  fuel
efficiency , Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault has promised
“structural measures” to lower fuel prices, which have yet to
be detailed.  Distributors are skeptical the government can do anything
about rising prices at the pump, especially amid budget cuts to
reduce the deficit. The immediate effects of Hollande’s fuel
rebate were wiped out within four days, according to Christian
Roux, president of an organization known as CNPA that represents
about 6,000 independent fuel distributors in France.  “Crude prices are global so there isn’t much the French
government can do,” Roux said by telephone. “Hollande’s
measure was like putting a bandage on a wooden leg. It served
absolutely no purpose.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  