-- Olsen Seen Dashing Rate Cut Bets in Acceptance of Strong Krone
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-09-20T14:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/olsen-seen-dashing-rate-cut-bets-in-acceptance-of-strong-krone.html
Norway’s central bank Governor
Oeystein Olsen is becoming more accepting of krone gains as an
urgency to contain surging  house prices  is gaining prominence,
analysts including Erica Blomgren at SEB AB said.  The governor today in a speech said that the bank’s policy
was becoming more flexible and that it wouldn’t intervene
directly in markets unless the currency’s value becomes unmoored
from economic fundamentals.  “Norges Bank is more tolerant now than previously,”
Blomgren, chief strategist at SEB in Oslo, said following the
speech. “He seems to accept a stronger krone and that a renewed
rate cut aimed at weakening the krone is not on the cards.”  That may wrong-foot traders who according to forward rates
are betting the bank will lower interest rates again this year.
Olsen had  cut rates  by 0.75 percentage point since December to
cap gains in the currency and protect the economy against the
fallout from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Olsen said today that currency interventions would come
only if the krone rate “moves significantly out of line with
that deemed reasonable in relation to the underlying
fundamentals” of the economy and that the “interest rate
weapon must already have been exhausted.”  Not Surprised  Olsen wasn’t “surprised” his comments were interpreted as
a hawkish signal, he said in an interview. “It was not a
specific intention to give a specific signal to the  currency
market ,” said. “For a long time we have noticed and we have
described the krone as being strong.”  Investors have flocked to the krone amid speculation of a
breakup of the euro area.  Norway , which like  Switzerland  isn’t a
European Union member, is backed by a $640 billion sovereign-
wealth fund and has no net debt. The currency, which hit a nine-
year high against the euro last month, strengthened as much as
0.3 percent before trading 0.1 percent higher at 7.4362 by 3:19
p.m. in Oslo.  “I will not project or speculate development of the krone.
It fluctuates,” Olsen said, adding that on average the currency
has been “slightly stronger” in the third quarter than
forecast in June. “It is very hard to detect a unique
correlation between unrest in the market and the krone
development because it depends on what kind of unrest, the
nature of unrest and how strong it is.”  Gains Needed  Persistent krone gains have prompted some fixed-income
traders to bet on a rate cut this year, even after policy makers
said they would reverse easing from “the turn of the year.”
Three-month forward-rate agreements for December have fallen 20
basis points since Aug. 31 to 1.86 percent. It settles to the
Norwegian interbank offered rate, which was quoted at 1.92
percent today. Nibor has averaged about 74 basis points more
than the central bank’s key rate this year.  While the krone rose to a nine-year high against the euro
last month, the  import-weighted exchange rate  remains below the
85.5 level that triggered a rate cut in March. The index stood
at 86.7 by 3.08 p.m. in Oslo. A lower figure denotes an
appreciation against a basket of currencies.  “Assuming everything else being equal, I guess that the
krone would have to appreciate at least 2 percent from here
before Norges Bank would consider a cut,” Bjoern Roger Wilhelmsen, chief currency strategist at Swedbank First
Securities, said in an e-mailed reply to questions.  Krone gains have helped push down underlying inflation,
which adjusts for taxes and energy, to an annual 1.2 percent.
Inflation has hovered below the bank’s 2.5 percent target since
July 2009, as the krone’s advance damps import prices.  “If monetary policy only took into account the low level
of inflation, the key policy rate would be rapidly reduced and
kept close to zero for a good while,” Olsen said his speech
today. “Inflation might then pick up faster, partly as a result
of a weaker krone. In the light of the trade-off against other
considerations, however, the bank does not want to accelerate
the pace of inflation.”  Policy makers will next meet on Oct. 31 to decide on
 interest rates  and present a new rate path.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jonas Bergman
in Oslo at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  