-- Lonmin Deal With Illegal Strikers Sets ‘Dangerous’ Precedent
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-09-20T11:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/lonmin-deal-with-illegal-strikers-sets-dangerous-precedent-3-.html
Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s record pay increase
for employees to end an illegal strike at its biggest mine in
South Africa sets a dangerous precedent for rivals and for other
industries as the platinum producer met demands backed up by
violence, labor analyst Loane Sharp said.  “The lesson that workers have learnt is that violence and
intimidation lead employers to capitulate,” Sharp, who’s at
 Adcorp Holdings Ltd. (ADR) , said by phone yesterday.  Employees agreed to return to work at Marikana, which
produced about a 10th of global platinum supplies, today after
winning increases of as much as 22 percent. That’s the single
biggest raise by a mining company in the country’s history,
Sharp said. Seventy-seven percent of workers reported for duty,
said Sue Vey, an external spokeswoman  for Lonmin.  About 3,000 rockdrill operators not represented by any
unions went on strike on Aug. 10 at the mine, which employs
about 28,000, demanding an increase of about double their pay to
12,500 rand ($1,515). The strike coincided with the Association
of Mineworkers and Construction Union recruiting members in a
challenge to the dominant  National Union of Mineworkers .  Labor upheaval and a drop in platinum prices have shut down
mines in  South Africa , which produces three-quarters of supplies
of the metal. Workers at Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. want
similar increases to those won at Lonmin. The Congress of South
African Trade Unions said the pay deal may encourage workers in
other industries to start unauthorized strikes, hurting the
future of the central bargaining system.  Output Drop  “It could set the tone for more aggressive wage
negotiations by other unions in South Africa, which could have
negative impacts on rated mining companies,” Soummo Mukherjee,
a senior credit officer at Moody’s Investors Service, said in an
e-mailed statement today.  Mining accounts for 8.8 percent of the economy and makes up
about two-thirds of exports, according to the statistics agency
and the revenue service. Output has dropped in seven out of the
past 10 years, Statistics South Africa data show.  Cyril Ramaphosa , who is the founder of the NUM and whose
Shanduka Group Ltd. has a stake in Lonmin, said mining companies
did “too little, too late” in response to the violence. “The
Marikana wage settlement sets a very dangerous precedent,” he
told SAfm, a state-owned broadcaster, today. “The NUM should
use Marikana as a mirror.”  The total number of workers on all South African mines fell
to 498,141 in 2010 from 518,729 in 2008, according to the
Chamber of Mines, an industry body. The nation’s gold industry
had 157,019 workers in 2010, while platinum group metals
companies had 181,969 employees.  Reconsider Position  “The government and business people have to reconsider
their position, but the status quo can’t remain the same,”
Joseph Mathunjwa, president of the AMCU, said by phone
yesterday. “They should come out from their comfort zone and
address the plight of the workers.”  Impala (IMP) , the world’s second-largest platinum producer, which
had a six-week strike at the beginning of the year in which four
people died and 120,000 ounces of metal were lost, said Sept. 13
the AMCU has put forward new pay demands, and negotiations are
under way.  Implats miners want the same deal that Lonmin workers got,
“nothing less,” NUM General Secretary Frans Baleni said in
Johannesburg today.  Worker Protests  Lonmin agreed with the NUM in December to raise pay by as
much as 10 percent this year. That’s twice August’s  inflation
rate . Workers in South Africa, where about one in four people
 don’t have a job , may strike legally if an independent mediator
agrees to a stoppage and after talks between unions and
companies fail.  Platinum fell 2.3 percent to $1,602,74 an ounce by 11:23
a.m. in  London , paring its advance since Aug. 9 to 13 percent.  Lonmin workers last month began protesting at Wonderkop 
hill near the Marikana property, carrying spears and fighting 
sticks. Police shot and killed 34 people in protests, while at 
least 11 others died in fighting, including two policemen
whose bodies were mutilated after they were hacked to death.  “We are very worried about what the way in which these
increases were secured means for other industries,” Justin Froneman, an analyst at Johannesburg-based SBG Securities Ltd.,
said by phone yesterday. “It may well set a precedent.”  A day after the Lonmin wage agreement was struck,
protesters at  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the world’s largest
producer of the metal, were dispersed with tear gas and stun
grenades. Miners at  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) ’s KDC West mine are on an
illegal strike for a 12th day.  No Precedent  Anglo American Platinum and  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP) 
declined to comment on the Lonmin deal.  Lonmin had no choice, Solidarity union leader Gideon du
Plessis said in a Sept. 14 interview.  South African President  Jacob Zuma  said he didn’t expect
the wage deal to set a precedent.  “The unions were not at the center of this,” he told
reporters in Brussels on Sept. 18. “I think we go back to the
old style. I don’t think we’re setting up a new one.”  Lonmin had cut spending on growth projects prior to the
strike as platinum prices fell and labor and electricity costs
rose at above-inflation rates.  The strike reduced daily output by about 2,500 ounces at
Marikana, which produces almost all of the company’s metal.
Without production, the company said last month it will probably
breach  loan  conditions. Lonmin will probably fail the tests when
it’s scrutinized on Sept. 30, Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst Tyler Broda said yesterday.  More Sustainable  In a bid to restart output and stem losses, Lonmin agreed
to raise drillers’ pay by 22 percent after an initial offer was
rejected last week. Increases for the three other categories of
workers would be from 10 percent to 18 percent.  “I’m not sure we bought peace and I’m not sure we put a
band-aid on,” Simon Scott, Lonmin’s acting chief executive
officer, said on Talk Radio 702 yesterday. “I’d like to think
we did something more something more sustainable.”  The continent’s biggest economy ranked last on labor-
employer relations among the 144 countries in the  World Economic
Forum ’s 2012-13 Global Competitiveness Report.  Pay strikes increased to near-record levels last year and
communities held protests, saying their  living standards  haven’t
improved sufficiently since the first all-race elections in
1994.  No Room  Under apartheid, cheap black labor was used to build the
economy, with workers living in single-sex hostels. Most of the
miners were migrants from distant provinces such as the Eastern
Cape and neighboring countries.  “Given significant differences in salary structures across
the South African platinum group metals industry, particularly
with regards to package structures, basic wages and bonus
schemes, workers at other operations may not have the same room
to demand a 22 percent wage increase,” Froneman said.  Lonmin dropped 4.5 percent to 622.50 pence by 11:26 a.m. in
London trading.  South Africa’s largest gold and coal companies, including
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , negotiate wages
jointly through the Chamber of Mines.  “We’re trying to make sense of what has happened,” Vusi
Mabena, executive of stakeholder relations at the chamber, said
by phone from Johannesburg yesterday about the Lonmin accord.
“We don’t know what the consequences are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  