-- Oracle Sales Miss Estimates as Hardware Sales Decline
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-09-21T13:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/oracle-sales-miss-estimates-as-hardware-sales-decline.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  reported fiscal first-
quarter revenue that missed analysts’ estimates as sales of
computer hardware fell for a sixth straight period, curbing
growth as it navigates a shift to cloud-computing services.  Sales for the quarter that ended Aug. 31 declined 2.3
percent to $8.18 billion, the  Redwood City , California-based
software maker said yesterday in a statement. That missed $8.42
billion, the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Profit
excluding some items was 53 cents a share, matching projections.  Oracle’s recent  acquisitions  of companies that sell
 customer service  and human resources software delivered via the
an Internet boosted applications sales during the seasonally
slow first quarter. That wasn’t enough to outweigh slumping
revenue for  computer hardware  that Oracle gained in the 2010
purchase of Sun Microsystems Inc.  “Hardware’s going to continue to be a struggle for them,”
said Pat Walravens, an analyst at JMP Securities LLC. “Sun was
a big company, and it’s going down.”  Sales in the current quarter will be unchanged or show an
increase of as much as 4 percent, co-President Safra Catz said
on a conference call. Profit excluding some items will be 59
cents to 63 cents a share, she said. On average, analysts had
 projected  fiscal second-quarter sales growth of 5 percent and
profit of 61 cents.  Hardware Systems  Oracle climbed 1.6 percent to $32.78 at 9:55 a.m. in  New
York . The stock has gained 26 percent this year through
yesterday.  First-quarter net income rose 11 percent to $2.03 billion,
or 41 cents a share, from $1.84 billion, or 36 cents, a year
earlier. Oracle, the largest maker of  database software , said
hardware-systems products revenue declined 24 percent to $779
million. That was a steeper drop than the 14 percent estimated
by  Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS in  San Francisco .  “Their hardware growth plan this year looks to be
derailed,” Thill said in an e-mail.  The company is pushing sales of its high-end Exadata and
Exalytics machines, which use  Intel Corp. (INTC)  chips. Sales of high-
end engineered systems more than doubled, co-President  Mark Hurd 
said in the statement. Sales of servers using Sun’s Sparc chip
are sagging, though.  Oracle is also the second-largest maker of applications
used to manage companies’ sales, finances and human resources,
and has been acquiring online software companies to challenge
market leader SAP AG, as well as Salesforce.com Inc.  License Revenue  Oracle changed the way it reports new software license
revenue last quarter. Instead of breaking out sales of
databases, application-connecting middleware and applications,
it now reports a single new license and cloud-computing
subscriptions number.  New license sales, closely watched by  Wall Street  because
they indicate future support revenue, rose 5.1 percent to $1.6
billion.  Oracle agreed in February to acquire Taleo Corp. for about
$1.9 billion. Last October, Oracle said it would purchase
RightNow Technologies Inc. for $1.5 billion. Oracle acquired Sun
for $7.4 billion in 2010.  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison , Hurd and Catz will
outline Oracle’s product road maps at the company’s  OpenWorld
conference , which runs Sept. 30 to Oct. 4 in San Francisco.  On the call yesterday, Ellison said he’ll use his Sept. 30
address at the conference to unveil a new version of Oracle’s
market-leading database software, called 12c. The new database
will include technology for companies hosting cloud-computing
software, Ellison said.  Wooing Developers  Customers use Oracle’s database -- which competes with
software from International Business Machines Corp. and
Microsoft Corp. -- to store reams of information on everything
from banking transactions and airline flights to business data
slated for analysis. Oracle is making more of its technology
available through an  Internet service  called Oracle Cloud,
aiming to woo developers who want to build applications
delivered to users through the Web, Ellison said.  Oracle 12c will be available by February, Ellison said. In
the company’s statement, the CEO said he also plans to discuss
“lots of enhancements to the Oracle Cloud” service at
OpenWorld, including more sales, manufacturing planning and
human resources applications delivered as online services.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  