-- Tougher Approval for Stock-Market Order Types Needed, Lauer Says
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-09-20T17:33:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/tougher-approval-for-stock-market-order-types-needed-lauer-says.html
Regulators should make the approval
process for new stock-market order types more stringent to
simplify trading and boost investor confidence, said David
Lauer, a consultant at Better Markets Inc.  Approval for order types should be denied when there is no
“clearly demonstrated utility” to long-term investors and
market stability, he said today at a U.S. Senate Banking
Committee hearing. Exchanges offer multiple order types so
traders can tailor transactions based on price moves or other
conditions. Some give users control over when and how they
execute a trade request while others allow firms to keep their
place in line for orders or avoid routing to other venues.  “The bar for approving new order types needs to be
revisited,” said Lauer of Better Markets, a nonprofit group
that promotes financial reform. “It would re-instill confidence
in the marketplace if it was easier for the average person to
get their head around what these order types mean.”  The adoption of a set of rules known as Regulation NMS has
led to a fragmented market in which orders are executed on 13
exchanges, several alternative venues, more than 40 dark pools
and through other broker-dealer systems. The rules also drove a
focus on speed and led to the expansion of order types for high-
frequency firms, Joseph Mecane, head of U.S. equities at  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) , said yesterday at a conference in  Washington .  ‘Not Failing’  While there are too many order types, the review procedure
is not failing, said Chris Concannon, a partner and executive
vice president at New York-based broker Virtu Financial LLC. He
is also a former Securities and Exchange Commission official and
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. executive.  “I personally filed order types,” he said at today’s
hearing. “It is a difficult process to get these things
approved.”  By spawning faster trading, Regulation NMS cleared a path
for for-profit  exchanges  and brokers to cater to high-frequency
firms, which provide more than half of the volume in the market,
Mecane said. Exchanges offer several order types, or automated
instructions that determine the series of actions a buy or sell
request can take, to high-frequency and other users with
“economically sensitive” trading strategies, he said.  The SEC in February sought information about how order
types have evolved at Bats Global Markets Inc., the third-
largest owner of U.S. equity exchanges by volume. Bats said
regulators asked for documents “related to the development,
modification and use of order types, and our communications with
certain market participants,” including some of Bats’ owners.  “We need much more transparency on these order types,”
 Larry Tabb , chief executive officer of research firm Tabb Group
LLC, said at today’s hearing. “Should the SEC be looking over
these in more detail? I think yes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at   lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 