-- How to Lose Weight Fast the Deutsche Bank Way
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-09-20T22:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/how-to-lose-weight-fast-the-deutsche-bank-way.html
Imagine if I told you I could
reduce my own  body weight  by 80 percent or more, on paper,
through a series of calculations utilizing my own proprietary
mathematical models, the details of which are so complex and
highly prized that I couldn’t divulge them.  You would be right not to believe me, and might think I’m
nuts. Yet this, in essence, is what regulators let banks do all
the time with their balance sheets. Huge swaths of  assets  are
allowed to vanish, making too-big-to-fail financial institutions
seem leaner and safer than they are.  Under the system known as risk weighting, banks get away
with this because they are allowed to stipulate that some assets
carry little, if any, risk. Many  government bonds , for instance,
fall into the riskless category for purposes of determining
regulatory-capital ratios. So a bank can assume it won’t incur
losses on them, which allows it to keep a lower capital cushion.
The flaw here is that rulemakers aren’t good at predicting what
kinds of assets might blow up. Some governments, especially in
 Europe , are in awful shape and pose a real risk of defaulting.  In other words, the notion of risk weighting is a farce, at
least the way it is practiced now. Yet it carries the imprimatur
of the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , the Swiss body
that writes capital standards for most of the developed world.
Thankfully, a U.S. regulator has stepped up to say the world
should scrap the Basel committee’s standards.  Speaking Out  The American speaking out against the latest Basel proposal
is  Thomas Hoenig , the former head of the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Kansas City  who now sits on the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp.’s  board . And to see why he is right to do so, take a look
at  Germany ’s largest bank,  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   Deutsche Bank had 2.24 trillion euros ($2.84 trillion) of
assets on its June 30  balance sheet , which was prepared using
the  International Accounting Standards Board ’s rules. Yet the
company said it had only 372.6 billion euros of  risk-weighted
assets . That’s the figure it used to come up with a 10.2 percent
capital ratio for regulatory purposes.  So, somehow Deutsche Bank made 83 percent of its assets
disappear, which really is all you need to know to realize that
the whole Basel construct is a sham. More than three-quarters of
Deutsche Bank’s total assets consist of securities, loans and
derivative instruments, all of them carrying varying degrees of
risk. Yet the much smaller risk-weighted figure would have us
believe that the bulk of Deutsche Bank’s assets were riskless,
which obviously can’t be true.  There’s no way to tell from the company’s latest  report  to
investors how Deutsche Bank got this figure, except we know some
asset classes, such as sovereign debt, are deemed much less
risky by Basel rules than other kinds of assets, such as plain-
vanilla loans. The Basel rules let the largest banks rely on
their own proprietary models to determine how risky their assets
are. The latest revisions proposed by the Basel committee, which
span several hundred pages, wouldn’t change that.  In a Sept. 14  speech , Hoenig said the better way to assess
capital adequacy is to develop a rule that is simple and
enforceable. “It should reflect the firm’s ability to absorb
loss in good times and in crisis,” he said.  “It should be one that the public and shareholders can
understand, that directors can monitor, that management cannot
easily game, and that bank supervisors can enforce.” And it
“should result in a bank having capital that approximates what
the market would require” if no government safety net were in
place, Hoenig said.  Capital Ratios  The measure that best achieves those goals, he said, is a
capital ratio that divides a bank’s  tangible equity  by tangible
assets. Tangible equity would start with shareholder equity and
exclude all intangible assets (such as goodwill), which are
worthless in a crisis. Hoenig also would exclude deferred tax
assets; profitable companies can use these to reduce their tax
bills, but they are worthless to companies going broke. Hoenig
said a reasonable capital ratio would be 10 percent or higher,
depending on examiners’ findings at a given bank.  Deutsche Bank would look much weaker by this measure,
mainly because the assets in the calculation would be about six
times as large. Its capital ratio under Hoenig’s formula would
be 1.4 percent. That translates into leverage of about 70-to-1.  Because of differences in how derivatives are treated under
international accounting standards, Deutsche Bank’s reported
assets probably would drop by about half if the bank used U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. Likewise, its capital
ratio under Hoenig’s way would be higher using U.S. GAAP
numbers, but nowhere near 10 percent.  Hoenig’s proposal has weak spots. Arguably, a 10 percent
minimum isn’t high enough. And the contents of banks’ assets and
liabilities wouldn’t be any more transparent than they are now.
(To read about ultra-transparency as an antidote to the
financial crisis, check out a blog called  Trust Your Instincts 
run by a fellow named Richard Field.) U.S. banking regulators,
including the FDIC and the  Federal Reserve , are in the process
of adopting their version of the latest Basel proposals, known
as Basel III.  At least under Hoenig’s idea we would move away from a
system that is designed to breed excessive leverage. And we
would get regulators out of the business of guessing which
assets are safe and which aren’t. It’s worth a shot.  (Jonathan Weil is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  challenges facing Japan’s
leaders  and on why  poverty and inequality  aren’t as bad as you
think; Stephen L. Carter on how Hustler magazine can inform  our
response to Mideast violence ;  Pankaj Mishra  on the tangled roots
of the Sino-Japanese territorial spat; William Pesek on  Japan’s
slow tsunami recovery ;  Matt Miller  on the  school strike  the U.S.
really needs; Mel and Patricia Ziegler on  selling Banana
Republic to The Gap .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Jonathan Weil  in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  