-- Toyota Supplier Toyo Tire Reviews China as Protests Grow
-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e   a n d   M a   J i e
-- 2012-09-20T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/toyota-supplier-reviews-china-plans-as-anti-japan-protests-mount.html
A  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  supplier said
it may scale back expansion plans in  China  in the face of
escalating anti-Japan sentiment as the fallout from the
political dispute over an islands group spreads to businesses.  “The protests may affect our decision on making further
investment in China,”  Toyo Tire & Rubber Co. (5105)  Chief Executive
Officer Kenji Nakakura, 64, said in an interview in  Osaka  this
week. “China remains an important market from which we can’t
retreat, but when it comes to increasing investment we may be
more inclined to do it in other countries such as Malaysia.”  Nakakura’s comments make Toyo Tire one of the first
Japanese companies to openly say they’re reconsidering
investment plans in light of China-wide protests, some of which
have turned violent. In the past week, demonstrators protesting
 Japan ’s purchase of islands claimed by both countries torched
auto showrooms and smashed Japanese-branded vehicles, forcing
some companies to suspend their factories in the country.  Toyo Tire, based in Osaka, suspended a factory that
produces tires for buses and trucks in the eastern Chinese city
of Qingdao on Sept. 18, according to Nakakura. Production
resumed the next day.  Toyo Tire’s dealers have been subjected to protests from
demonstrators opposing the sale of Japanese goods, though the
company didn’t suffer damages to its facilities and offices in
China, said Nakakura. Toyo Tire has asked its employees to
refrain from going on business trips to China for the time
being, he said.  Compared with other auto parts, tires have a bigger
exposure to the general public as they’re mostly sold in stores
and their brands are easily visible, according to Nakakura.  Chinese Boycott  “So we’re concerned that the calls for blocking Japanese
products will affect sales,” he said.  Nakakura said the company is still gathering information
and measuring the financial toll, though the company has no
plans to scale back production in China for now.  Toyo Tire, the fourth-biggest tiremaker in Japan, has
ramped up production overseas to counter the strengthening yen.
China is the company’s largest Asian manufacturing base after
 Malaysia , with targeted output of  2.5 million  units by 2015, or
20 percent of total Asian production. Toyo Tire has a long-term
plan of making 8 million tires annually in China, Nakakura said.  The company may increase production in Malaysia because of
the country’s free-trade agreement with China, Nakakura said.
The company is also considering production in “many other
countries,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  