-- Penn State Fights to Keep Operations Secret After Sandusky
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-09-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/penn-state-fights-to-keep-operations-secret-after-sandusky.html
Pennsylvania State University  is
standing fast against efforts to open its records to public
scrutiny as it overhauls its administration after the Jerry
Sandusky child-sex case, President Rodney Erickson said.  Lawmakers and Republican Governor Tom Corbett, who sits on
the school’s Board of Trustees, say they want to make it subject
to all the provisions in the state’s Right-to-Know law, which
permits people to seek e-mails, contracts and other records from
government institutions. While almost all U.S. public
universities are subject to such statutes, Penn State was
excluded when  Pennsylvania  overhauled its law in 2008.  “We’re not the Department of Labor and Industry,”
Erickson said in an interview this week at Bloomberg LP’s
headquarters in  New York . “We’re a somewhat different
operation.”  Penn State, which was established by the Legislature in
1855 and got about $280 million in state support last year, has
been assailed for a culture of secrecy. Investigators found
university leaders sought to protect the football program by
covering up allegations more than a decade ago that Sandusky, a
former assistant football coach, sexually abused children on
campus. A grand-jury report last year revealed the scandal,
leading to perjury charges against two administrators, the
resignation of President  Graham Spanier  and firing of football
coaching legend  Joe Paterno .  Sandusky’s Sentencing  Sandusky was found guilty on 45 counts of sexual abuse in
June and will be sentenced next month. The university is also
the subject of investigations by the U.S.  Department of
Education  and the U.S. attorney in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. It
faces at least three victims’ lawsuits and in July was fined $60
million by the  National Collegiate Athletic Association , which
stripped the football team of its wins from 1998 through 2011.  “The scandal Penn State has been through in the last year
shows why they never should have been exempted in the first
place,” said Nathan Benefield, director of policy analysis at
the Commonwealth Foundation for Public Policy, a Harrisburg-
based free-market advocate. “It certainly wouldn’t have
prevented the things that happened a decade before but it might
have helped reveal the cover-up.”  Limited Disclosure  While Erickson said the president’s office has been made
more open and accountable to the university’s Board of Trustees,
the university opposes legislation filed in Harrisburg that
would extend all of the provisions of the  open records law .
Instead, it supports a proposal by Senate Majority Leader
Dominic Pileggi that would subject campus police to the law
while also increasing disclosure of how the university spends
state funding.  Penn State and three other so-called state-related
institutions were required under the 2008 law to disclose only
annual tax filings and top officials’ salary information. The
others are  Temple University  in Philadelphia, the  University of
Pittsburgh , and Lincoln University.  Erickson, a former provost who took over as president when
Spanier resigned in November, said making the university
disclose documents and communications to the public raises
“issues related to our research,” because of  trade secrets  and
proprietary information it gets from working with private
industries. He also said many donors want their gifts secret.  “There are aspects that even the governor would confirm
that are unique to Penn State and the other state-related
universities in the commonwealth,” said Erickson, who first
joined Penn State’s faculty in 1973.  Working Fine  Kevin Harley , a spokesman for the governor, said Corbett
has been advocating for months to end the exemption. He said
Corbett, elected in 2010, would support exceptions for
intellectual property or national-security considerations.  Harley said that the 14 university campuses in the
Pennsylvania higher education  system , which are more closely
controlled and less expensive than the state-related
institutions, “are all subject to the Right-to-Know law and
they operate fine. They’re continuing their mission without
interruption.”  Pennsylvania, Delaware and  Alaska  are the only three states
that exclude public universities from open records laws,
according to Terry Mutchler, executive director of
Pennsylvania’s Office of Open Records.  ‘Prurient Interests’  Pileggi, a Republican elected in 2002, sponsored the
overhaul of Pennsylvania’s Right-to-Know law in 2008, which made
it easier for the public to get internal information from
government agencies.  Penn State  opposed its inclusion, with the
former president testifying that it would have a “profound
negative impact.”  “This bill does far more than feed the prurient interests
of newspaper editors looking for a headline,” Spanier, who is
now a tenured professor on sabbatical, said in a video of a
hearing. “This bill will fundamentally change the way we
operate, the way our trustees govern and the way I administer
their policies.”  Eric Arneson, a spokesman for Pileggi, said a proposal to
amend the open records law will be released soon, with the
Legislature due to return from recess next week.  At least two bills have been filed in the past year that
would simply end the exemption for Penn State and the other
state-related institutions.  “I don’t believe they should have ever been exempted,”
said Eugene DePasquale, a Democratic state representative from
York, whose  bill  was referred to committee. “Sunlight is the
best disinfectant. It doesn’t need to be any more complicated
than removing their exemption.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 