-- Fed’s Pianalto Sees Less Stimulus From Bond Purchases
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   D e n i s e   T r o w b r i d g e
-- 2012-09-20T23:06:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/pianalto-says-qe3-may-give-less-stimulus-than-previous-bond-buys.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
President  Sandra Pianalto  said the central bank’s program to
purchase $40 billion a month of mortgage-backed securities may
have limited impact on the economy.  “It is possible that these purchases will yield somewhat
smaller interest-rate declines and may not stimulate economic
activity as much as past large-scale asset purchase programs,”
Pianalto said in a speech today in Oxford,  Ohio .  Policy makers led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  are seeking
to boost growth and lower a jobless rate stuck above 8 percent
since February 2009. Pianalto supported the FOMC’s Sept. 13
statement that economic conditions would probably warrant
holding the Fed’s  target interest rate  near zero through at
least mid-2015 and that monetary stimulus will remain
appropriate for a “considerable time” after growth
strengthens.  The program “should put some downward pressure on home
mortgage rates,” Pianalto said. “These lower rates should
provide further support for the housing sector by encouraging
home purchases and refinancing.”  The average rate for a 30-year  fixed mortgage  fell to 3.49
percent in the week ended today from 3.55 percent,  Freddie Mac 
said in a statement. It matched a record reached in July. The
average 15-year rate slid to 2.77 percent from 2.85 percent, a
new low, according to the McLean, Virginia-based company.  Stocks Fall  Most stocks fell today after a report showing that more
Americans than forecast filed claims for  unemployment benefits 
added to concerns that the global economy is cooling. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined less than 0.1 percent to
1,460.26 at close of trading in  New York .  Pianalto said that commodities and U.S. exchange rates are
not a target of the Fed’s policies.  “Oil prices and the dollar are prices that are set by
markets,” Pianalto said in response to audience questions.
“And monetary policy and actions influence them but there are
many other factors that influence them. When we are setting
policy we don’t ask what will happen to the dollar or  oil
prices . We have two objectives from congress: Price stability
and maximum employment.”  Crude oil for October delivery fell 11 cents today to
$91.87 a barrel, extending its weekly loss to 7.2 percent.  ‘Frustratingly Slow’  “Our economic recovery has been frustratingly slow,”
Pianalto said. “We have not returned to the level of economic
activity we want or need to create sustained job growth in the
 United States .”  The Fed took action last week after a Sept. 7 report from
the Labor Department showed the economy added 96,000 jobs in
August after a gain of 141,000 the prior month. The  unemployment
rate  fell to 8.1 percent after 368,000 people dropped out of the
 labor force .  Data today also showed signs of weakness in the economy.
More Americans than forecast filed first-time claims for
unemployment benefits, according to a Labor Department report.
The New York-based Conference Board’s gauge of leading economic
indicators fell 0.1 percent after a 0.5 percent increase in
July.  “The connection between monetary policy and  job creation 
is not straightforward,” Pianalto said. “While our monetary
policy actions can make a contribution, a more robust recovery
requires resolving problems that are beyond the control of
monetary policy, including addressing our country’s fiscal
challenges and the situation in Europe.”  Fed Presidents rotate voting on monetary policy. As
Cleveland Fed President, Pianalto, 58, votes every other year.
She is the longest-serving regional bank president, having led
her regional bank since 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  