-- Pictet Favors India, Brazil and Mexico as Fed Unleashes Dollars
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-09-20T00:50:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/pictet-favors-india-brazil-and-mexico-as-fed-unleashes-dollars.html
Pictet Asset Management Ltd. is
betting on gains in the  Indian rupee , Brazilian real and Mexican
peso as bond buying by the  Federal Reserve  prompts investors to
chase higher returns in  emerging markets .  Simon Lue-Fong, global head of emerging-market debt at
Pictet Asset, part of Switzerland’s largest privately held bank
for the wealthy, said he had “gone long” on the three
currencies in a Sept. 18 interview in Singapore. The  Dollar
Index (DXY) , which tracks the greenback against six major trading
partners, has lost 0.7 percent since Sept. 12, a day before the
Federal Reserve announced open-ended purchases of $40 billion of
mortgage debt per month.  The  European Central Bank  unveiled a plan this month for
unlimited buying of  government bonds , while the  Bank of Japan 
increased its asset-purchase fund yesterday. The rupee and the
real are the two worst performers over the past year among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Within eight
months of the Fed unveiling $300 billion of note buying in
November 2010, the real rallied to the strongest level since
1999 and the rupee and the peso reached three-year and 30-month
highs, respectively.  “Pictet has a bias for these currencies as they all
benefit from reflation and growth,” said Lue-Fong, who oversees
$22 billion of emerging-market debt in London. “The real and
the rupee have been laggards, so valuation-wise look cheaper.
Mexico, given its proximity to the U.S. liquidity bazooka, is
sure to do well.”  Economic Growth  The rupee weakened 12 percent in the past year to 54 per
dollar, followed by an 11 percent slump in the real to 2.025.
The peso rose 2.4 percent over the same period to 12.818.  India’s economy  will expand 6.1 percent this year, Mexico’s
will grow 3.9 percent and Brazilian gross domestic product will
increase 2.5 percent, according to estimates published in July
by the  International Monetary Fund . That compares with the
Washington-based lenders’ forecast of 2 percent growth in the
U.S. and a 0.3 percent contraction in the euro area.  Malaysia’s ringgit, South Korea’s won and China’s  yuan  will
also perform better as reflation and growth boost exports, said
Lue-Fong, who has been an investment manager since 1991, working
for Standard Asset Management and Invesco Ltd. before joining
Pictet in 2005.  Pictet’s $10 billion  Emerging Local-Currency Bond Fund (PFEMGDP) 
returned 11 percent this year, beating a 9.8 percent gain in
JPMorgan Chase & Co’s index of developing-market local-currency
debt. Its  Global Emerging Dollar Debt Fund (PFIFGEA)  rose 12.8 percent,
trailing a 14.1 percent advance in comparable dollar bonds
tracked by JPMorgan.  ‘Outside Asia’  Lue-Fong said he favors local-currency debt from Mexico,
Poland,  South Africa  and Turkey, saying central banks in those
nations are likely to lower borrowing costs.  “The bond story in Asia is less interesting as the yields
are already low and because there is some inflationary pressure,
which prevents central banks from cutting rates,” he said. “If
you’re looking for  capital gains  and huge decreases in rates,
you have to look outside Asia.”  The rupee and Indonesia’s rupiah have come under pressure
recently due to growing current-account deficits. India’s
shortfall widened to a record 4.2 percent of GDP in the year
through March, from 2.7 percent in 2011, official figures show.
Indonesia had a $6.9 billion  deficit  in the second quarter, the
largest since Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1997.  “We are in the process of increasing risk within our
portfolios,” Lue-Fong said. “Promotion of growth in the world
will help rebalance countries’ balance of payments. That’s good
for currency appreciation, particularly in Asia.”  ‘Diversification and Returns’  The Fed stimulus will “provide liquidity, shore up
confidence, and reflate asset prices” in the emerging-debt
markets, Lue-Fong said. Even if there’s a question mark about
the long-term effects on the global economy, the move is good
for fixed-income asset prices in the short run, he said.  Emerging-market bond funds have attracted more than $36
billion this year through Sept. 12, more than double the $17.3
billion for all of 2011, according to data from research firm
EPFR Global.  “The scarcity of growth, yields and safer assets will
continue to push investors into emerging markets,” Lue-Fong
said. “Big investors such as sovereign wealth funds and pension
funds have woken up to the fact that developing-market debt
assets are potentially part of the solution for them in terms of
diversification and returns.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 