-- Poker Lures Penn National, MGM Resorts Into Maryland TV War
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-09-20T20:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/poker-lures-penn-national-into-maryland-tv-war-with-mgm-resorts.html
John Lolley wanted to try his luck.
So he made the almost hour-long drive from his home in
Hagerstown,  Maryland , to the Hollywood Casino in Charles Town,
West  Virginia , joining dozens of other residents of his state to
drop coins into  slot machines  or wager at the card, craps and
roulette tables.  After November, he may have more choices to keep him in his
home state. Maryland voters are being asked to allow Las Vegas-
style table games such as blackjack, poker and roulette in
casinos that are now limited to video slot machines. The measure
also would increase the number of casinos in the state to six
from five.  “The only reason I come here is because there’s none in
Maryland,” Lolley, 32, said.  The Maryland referendum has sparked a contest between the
casinos vying for bettors like Lolley, illustrating the stakes
as states including Massachusetts and  Pennsylvania  race against
each other to secure a greater share of the  tax revenue 
generated by the $36 billion a year industry. The trend
threatens existing casinos as new competition emerges, eating
into the business once dominated by Las Vegas and  New Jersey ’s
 Atlantic City .  “You cannot continue to add supply in that market without
taking business away from the incumbent,” said Bill Eadington,
the director of the Institute for the Study of Gambling and
Commercial Gaming at the  University of Nevada , Reno. “The
gaming companies have become much more aggressive.”  TV Campaigns  Penn National Gaming Inc. (PENN) , the Wyomissing, Pennsylvania-
based owner of the  West Virginia  casino, has poured $9.5 million
into a campaign to defeat the Maryland referendum. The companies
on the other side --  MGM Resorts International (MGM) , which is vying
to build a casino in the Maryland suburbs of  Washington , and
 Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) , which is investing in one in
downtown Baltimore -- together have given the same amount to
support the measure.  The spending can be seen in a barrage of television ads.
From late August through Sept. 17, the two groups on opposite
sides of the issue ran more than 6,200 commercials, according to
New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising.  With government finances still struggling to recover from
the recession, states on the East Coast have moved to boost
gambling to increase tax revenue. In West Virginia, Penn
National won approval to add games like roulette to  Charles Town 
in 2009. Delaware and Pennsylvania both introduced the games in
2010. In  New York , Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat, is seeking
to allow for seven Las Vegas-style casinos in the Empire state.  Legalization Interest  “In the last five years, since the recession kicked in,
there’s just been tremendous interest in legalization and you’re
seeing it all up and down the eastern seaboard,” Eadington
said. “It’s not likely to stop until the market gets
saturated.”  In 2002, there were 445 casinos in 15 states, excluding
those run by Native American tribes, according to the American
Gaming Association, the industry’s Washington-based trade group.
By 2011, there were 492 in 22 states.  Maryland approved its first casinos in November 2008, when
the legislature and Governor  Martin O’Malley , a Democrat, sought
approval from voters to allow electronic games. It passed with
59 percent of the vote.  First Casino  Penn National opened the first, in Perryville, Maryland,
near the Delaware border, with the second opening outside Ocean
City on the Atlantic coast. Local developer Cordish Cos. opened
the third in June, south of Baltimore, the state’s biggest city.  In 2014, Caesars is planning to open a $300 million casino
in Baltimore. One also is planned for Western Maryland.  Last month, O’Malley signed a bill, approved in a special
session of the legislature, that put the matter before voters
again.  If approved, casinos would be allowed to operate for 24-
hours a day and add table games. A sixth casino in Prince
George’s County, which borders Washington, would be authorized
to open as soon as 2016.  MGM Resorts is seeking to build the sixth casino at the
National Harbor, on the Potomac River. Penn National wants it at
Rosecroft Raceway, a horse track it purchased out of  bankruptcy
protection  and reopened last year. The state will decide which
plan to accept.  O’Malley said more gambling in Maryland would provide a
needed jolt to the economy by creating more than 2,000 permanent
jobs. It would also put another $199 million a year into the
state’s education fund by 2019, according to legislative
estimates.  Tax Rates  Penn National is leading the opposition to the ballot
measure. Karen Bailey, a company spokeswoman, said Penn National
is concerned that its bid to open the Prince George’s County
casino at its racetrack will be sidelined in favor of the MGM
Resorts proposal because it has won support from political
leaders.  Penn National says Maryland would raise more money by
leaving the current law in place. The referendum would cut some
casino owners’ taxes and provides a lower rate for table games
than slot machines.  “There’s a better deal to be had for the people of
Maryland,” she said.  MGM Resorts, based in  Las Vegas , has given $8.4 million to
For Maryland Jobs and Schools Inc., the committee behind the
advertising blitz in favor of the referendum, according to state
records. An affiliate of Caesars, which in June won a license to
build a casino in downtown Baltimore, has given $1.1 million.  Jobs Argument  Their campaign points to jobs and tax revenue. “The
proposed resort casino will create thousands of jobs,” said
Kristen Hawn, a spokeswoman for the campaign backing the ballot
measure. “This is all an attempt by Penn National to protect
the Charles Town casino in West Virginia.”  Bailey, the Penn National spokeswoman, denied that’s the
company’s motive.  Penn National already is feeling competition within
Maryland. In August, Penn National’s revenue from its Perryville
casino was $6.5 million, down 24 percent from a year earlier,
after the opening of Maryland’s third casino in June, according
to data released by the state. It’s also drawing money away from
West Virginia, according to a Penn National filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, which warned about potential
competition from a new casino in Prince George’s County.  Earnings Hit  That could shave as much as $50 million a year from Penn
National’s West Virginia earnings before income taxes,
depreciation and amortization, said Brian McGill, a casino
analyst in Philadelphia for brokerage firm Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC. In July, Penn National estimated that the company’s
total earnings on that basis, excluding some costs, would be
$769 million in 2012.  “It’s probably a pretty significant hit to Charles Town,”
McGill said.  Penn National rose 0.2 percent to $41.80 at the close in
New York. MGM Resorts fell 3.3 percent to $10.79.  Eddie Wimbush said he’s noticed the competition over the
years. Wimbush, 65, drives a bus to the Charles Town casino,
picking up a dozen or so passengers as he winds through Maryland
and Washington. When he began driving there in the late 1990s,
he said as many as 30 buses were making the trip on weekends.
Now, Wimbush said he sees fewer than 10.  “The more casinos, the more choices, the less people,” he
said.  Maryland Plates  On a recent Friday morning this month, a parking garage
outside the doors of Penn National’s Charles Town casino was
lined with some five dozen cars with Maryland license plates.  One of the cars belonged to Lolley, who drove from
Hagerstown and said he was unemployed. Lolley said he’d like to
see the measure pass, saying it would help the state’s schools
and give him more options.  Clarice Combs, a 66-year-old nurse, and her husband, make
the 55-mile drive to Charles Town from their home in Manassas,
Virginia, two or three times a month to wager about $100 at the
slot machines. She said they’d be happy to try their hand closer
to home in Prince George’s County if Maryland voters approve.  “We’d definitely be willing to try it,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  