-- Pop Singer Ruhan Jia Groomed by China for Global Stardom
-- B y   S u s a n   B e r f i e l d   a n d   B r u c e   E i n h o r n
-- 2012-09-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/pop-singer-ruhan-jia-groomed-by-china-for-global-stardom.html
On the day of her U.S. debut as a
pop singer, Ruhan Jia, 29, turned off the air conditioning in
her modest Manhattan hotel room to protect her voice.  She ordered sushi. She did some stretching. Other than
that, she was quiet.  Jia, a soprano trained in the Chinese and Western operatic
traditions, recorded her album “Time to Grow,” credited to
 Ruhan , last year. It combines pop and classical as well as
Chinese and Western sensibilities, and is sung mostly in
Mandarin.  Listeners might hear it like a Chinese version of Sarah Brightman, the soprano in “The Phantom of the Opera” who went
on to an eclectic career, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
Sept. 24 issue.  “Time to Grow” was produced in Sweden and mixed by
Bernard Lohr, who has worked with Celine Dion and Il Divo. A
British record company is distributing it. Jia’s manager is a
woman from  Taiwan  who has lived in the U.S. and  Europe  for
years. Jia’s recording contract is with the biggest music
company in  China .  Her career has the backing of the Chinese government, which
desperately wants an officially approved artist to gain the kind
of worldwide attention its dissidents usually get.  “Time to Grow” is the first release from China’s Earth’s
Music project, which is part of the government’s five-year
national economic development plan.  Brooklyn Stage  The  Ran Tea House  in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, is a popular
place for musicians from China to perform. Most, though, don’t
arrive on a state-sponsored tour. Inside is a poster of Jia’s CD
cover, which features her bathed in sunlight. She’s the very
picture of innocence. She could be advertising hair conditioner.  Next to her poster is one for the documentary “Never
Sorry,” about Chinese artist and activist Ai Weiwei. The stage
is small, the chairs are wicker, and the ficus trees slightly
dusty. The sole member of Jia’s road crew warns her not to step
down from the stage with the microphone in her hand.  During the sound check, Jia wears a long gray dress. At
6:30 p.m. she goes into the storage room to change and emerges
in a floor-length red strapless gown with sequins, her face
fully made up, her hair pulled back in a bun. It’s raining, and
only about two dozen people greet Jia when she takes the stage.  Jia has a soaring, powerful voice, and she’s received some
acclaim for her bel canto performances. But success will come
only if Jia gets extremely lucky.  Music Studies  “I grew up in something like a work camp. My parents
pushed me very hard,” Jia says. “All I did was go to school
and study music.”  Jia sits with her hands in her lap. She’s in an SUV that’s
headed to Norwalk,  Connecticut , where her manager, Jean Hsiao
Wernheim, and the head of her label, Bill Zang, will listen to
an American band that wants to tour China with their backing.  In the 1980s, Wernheim marketed products from  Wisconsin ,
where she lived, to Asia. She’s casually dressed and quick to
laugh. Zang, too, is energetic and often seems about to break
into song.  When she was 14, Jia left her parents’ home in Shijiazhuang
to attend the  Shanghai  Conservatory of Music. She graduated in
2006 with a degree in operatic singing. Her parents wanted her
to become a music professor, not a performer.  “But the stage is my real life,” says Jia.  Jia won a part in “Monkey: Journey to the West,” an opera
based on a popular allegory from the Tang dynasty and composed
by Damon Albarn, the front man for British rock group Blur.  Monkey Tour  “Monkey,” sung in Mandarin, premiered in Manchester in
2007 and went on to Paris and London.  The next year, Jia recorded the BBC theme song for the 2008
Beijing  Olympic Games , which Albarn composed.  In 2009, an American composer, Christopher Tin, was close
to completing an album, “Calling All Dawns,” drawn from sacred
and secular texts around the world. He watched some YouTube
clips of Monkey and decided Jia was the Chinese woman he wanted
to sing “Dao Zai Fan Ye” (or “The Path Is in Returning”).  The CD won Grammy Awards for best classical crossover album
and best instrumental arrangement accompanying vocalists.  It was this album that brought Jia to Zang’s attention. As
vice president of Shanghai Synergy Culture & Entertainment
Group, a subsidiary of state-owned Shanghai Media &
Entertainment Group, one of his tasks is to make a global star.  “The government definitely wants to be No. 1 in
everything,” says Zang from the front seat of the SUV. “But to
find artists who fit in, who speak English, there’s not too many
to choose from. Then we heard Ruhan’s song. We hadn’t heard this
kind of singing before.”  Sony Venture  Zang set up a joint venture with  Sony (6758)  in the 1990s and
served for seven years as the China president of Rock Records,
Taiwan’s leading pop music label.  He joined Shanghai Synergy in 2007 and brought on Wernheim
as international chief executive. He also hired her business
partner, Ed Yen, the former head of the music bureau for
Taiwan’s Government Information Office.  That same year, Chinese President  Hu Jintao  made a speech
about promoting Chinese culture at home and abroad.  The concept of soft power was popularized in the late 1980s
by Harvard professor Joseph Nye. Today, as China confronts Japan
over disputed islands in the  East China Sea  and squabbles with
other countries over uninhabited islands in the  South China Sea ,
Nye says Beijing is especially aware of the need to win friends.  “How do you prevent your neighbors from forming coalitions
against you?” he says. “By appearing to be a popular culture
and an attractive place.”  Culture Boost  In February, shortly before Communist Party official Bo Xilai was ousted from power amid accusations his wife murdered a
British businessman, the Ministry of Culture said it would
double the size of China’s culture industry by 2015, to about
$140 billion, with an annual growth rate of 20 percent.  Foreign companies see opportunities in China’s cultural
campaign.  Walt Disney (DIS) ,  DreamWorks Animation SKG (DWA) ,  James Cameron ,
and others are investing in the Chinese  film industry . New
York’s  Lincoln Center  for the  Performing Arts  last year signed a
deal with the city of Tianjin to advise it on cultural projects.  The Nederlanders, owners of the second-largest chain of
Broadway theaters, help Chinese performers come to the U.S.  “We believe there is a commercial market here on Broadway
for great Chinese entertainment,” says Robert Nederlander Jr.,
president of  Nederlander  Worldwide Entertainment.  The results of China’s efforts to charm the West are
“pretty dismal” so far, says Johan Lagerkvist, senior research
fellow at the Swedish Institute of International Affairs.  Ai, Liu Headlines  Headlines about the persecution of Ai Weiwei and imprisoned
Nobel laureate  Liu Xiaobo  overshadow the good works of Jia and
other cultural ambassadors -- or for that matter the reporting
of China’s own news agency, Xinhua.  China lags behind much smaller countries such as South
Korea as a cultural force because of its lack of liberty, says
Ting Wai, a professor at Hong Kong Baptist University who
studies Chinese soft power.  Yen and Wernheim are encouraging Jia to become more
assertive and confident, to act as if she’s already a star.  “We ask her to be like  Barbra Streisand ,” Yen says.  Jia first heard from Zang in the fall of 2010, when she was
studying for a master’s degree in music at Stony Brook
University, New York. Zang asked her to meet him in Shanghai;
they went to a concert by Dadawa, the last Chinese singer to
try, without much success, to penetrate the Western market.  After the Grammys, Jia quit Stony Brook and returned to
Shanghai, where she has a studio in the Synergy music park.  Eminem, Jackson  “It’s my quiet place,” says Jia. In it are boxes of CDs
Zang and Wernheim provided for her to study. Queen, Kiss,
Eminem, Whitney Houston,  Michael Jackson : all the music she
could never listen to growing up.  Jia found the lightest of the pop songs on her album,
“Dancing on a Rainbow,” particularly difficult to master.
Classical singing requires articulation and projection. It has
taken practice to sound more like someone you could dance to.  “It’s the opposite of how she was trained. All the muscles
are different. She has to smile when she sings,” says Wernheim.
“She had to learn to sing with a microphone, too.”  Wernheim sent the finished recording to an acquaintance in
London, Keith Ferreira, who runs  Silva Screen Records .  “I was smitten by her voice,” he says, and is
distributing the album in Europe. He also advertised the CD on
the Nasdaq billboard in Times Square in November 2011, though he
hasn’t been able to get “Time to Grow” much radio time.
Stations that specialize in Jia’s kind of music are less common
than they were back when Dion was at her peak.  Barking Dog  Jia begins her performance at the Ran Tea House accompanied
by the faint barking of the owner’s dog in the background.  “This album is about my life,” she says. She sings the
title song, as well as “Dancing on a Rainbow,” a traditional
Tibetan piece, and a few others, to applause. Wernheim is
filming the show for YouTube; someone else is taking pictures
for Jia’s Facebook page, which she cannot check when she is in
China because of state controls. (Twitter also isn’t permitted
in China; Jia has 450,000 followers on Weibo, a similar
service.)  “After each show, I ask Bill and Jean how I did,” Jia
says. Zang is encouraging. It was better than her last show, he
says, which was at a festival in Moscow.  “Singing in English I feel more open and powerful,” Jia
says. “Chinese is so soft. I hope for a big stage, for good
lights, lots of people. I want a bigger stage.”  This summer, she began recording a second album, this time
in Paris. Meanwhile, “ Time to Grow ” has sold a little more
than 1,000 copies.  Information:  http://jiaruhan.free.fr./home.htm   Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  and Farah Nayeri on
arts,  Lewis Lapham  on history and  Zinta Lundborg’s  New York
weekend.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Berfield in New York at 
 sberfield@bloomberg.net  or
Bruce Einhorn in  Hong Kong  at 
 beinhorn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 