-- Porsche, Daimler Indicate Europe’s Car Crisis Spreading
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b ,   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-09-21T11:44:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/porsche-daimler-indicate-europe-s-car-crisis-spreading.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  and Porsche AG provided
evidence that the worst European car market in 17 years has
started to spread to the luxury brands, mirroring a broader
recession that has spilled from southern Europe to  Germany .  Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler said yesterday that
operating profit at Mercedes-Benz Cars will fall this year,
lowering a previous target of matching the 2011 figure, while
Porsche plans to build fewer than the 155,000 cars and sport-
utility vehicles originally planned for next year.  Daimler, Porsche,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi brand have so far proved resilient to the
plunge in sales that has plagued  Fiat SpA (F) , PSA Peugeot Citroen
and  Renault SA. (RNO)  The German automakers have been sustained by a
robust domestic market and booming exports to China and the U.S.
The German market is now also showing signs of weakening.  “If a downturn lasts for longer, which this one is,
premium is not immune from pricing trends,” said  Arndt Ellinghorst , a London-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG
with an outperform  recommendation  on BMW, Porsche and VW, and a
neutral on Daimler. “The pricing environment in Europe is the
biggest problem,” with incentives spreading from Italy, Spain
and France to Germany.  German Decline  European car sales dropped 8.5 percent in August, the
steepest decline since February, the Brussels-based ACEA
industry association said on Sept. 18. The group forecasts that
European deliveries will hit a 17-year low in 2012. German car
registrations fell 4.7 percent in August, pushing the eight-
month sales figure to a 0.6 percent decline.  The region’s volume carmakers, hit hardest by the European
market’s downward spiral, are taking even tougher measures.
Peugeot agreed yesterday to sell a majority stake in its
trucking unit to raise cash. Fiat’s volume brands are
eliminating 20 percent of management jobs in  Europe , according
to a person familiar with the matter.  Dealers in Germany, Europe’s biggest economy, offered
discounts on average of 12.1 percent off the sticker price last
month, the highest rate in more than a year, according to
industry publication  Autohaus PulsSchlag . Price cuts by
Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz brand in August jumped to 11.7 percent
from 9.2 percent a year earlier. Incentives at Audi widened to
9.7 percent from 9.2 percent.  Incentive Effects  The increased incentives helped Audi and Mercedes, the
world’s second- and third-biggest luxury-car producers, post
sales gains last month in Europe, according to ACEA figures.
Registrations at top-ranked BMW fell in the region.  Daimler shares rose 0.8 percent to 39.53 euros as of 1:42
p.m. in  Frankfurt , and VW gained 1.1 percent to 151.60 euros.
BMW fell 0.2 percent to 59.31 euros. BMW, Daimler and Porsche
shares are among the  worst performers  on the Stoxx 600
Automobiles & Parts Index this year, gaining as much as 16
percent versus a 24 percent increase in the index.  Porsche, the Stuttgart-based maker of the 911 sports car
and Cayenne SUV, will still increase production next year,
though less than planned, spokesman Hans-Gerd Bode said by phone
yesterday. The VW unit is scheduled this year to build 140,000
vehicles. The slower growth rate “is due to the difficult
economic environment, especially in Europe,” said Lukas Kunze,
another Porsche spokesman.  Cost Reductions  “I want to hear that carmakers are cutting production,
cutting working hours, as I would be worried if they weren’t,”
Stefan Bauknecht, a Frankfurt-based portfolio manager at
Deutsche Bank AG’s DWS unit. “That gives me confidence that
they are on top of the situation.”  Mercedes-Benz Cars, which also includes the Smart city-car
brand, has already been taking efficiency measures in response
to the market decline and is setting up a savings project to be
called “Fit for Leadership,” Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  said at a Stuttgart press conference. Details will be
worked out in coming weeks, he said.  Ebit last year at Mercedes-Benz Cars totaled 5.2 billion
euros ($6.7 billion). The unit’s first-half operating profit
fell 10 percent to 2.57 billion euros. Zetsche said second-half
earnings will decline from the first six months of 2012.  “The overall environment in Europe is deteriorating, with
more negative developments than expected,” Zetsche said.  BMW is sticking to a 2012 forecast for record pretax profit
and deliveries, said  Mathias Schmidt , a spokesman at the Munich-
based carmaker. Pretax profit in 2011 was 7.38 billion euros. VW
is also maintaining its forecast for operating profit to match
last year’s 11.3 billion euros, said Marco Dalan, a spokesman at
the Wolfsburg, Germany-based company.  Plant Shutdowns  In contrast to the luxury carmakers’ forecasts of positive
earnings, volume manufacturers such as Paris-based Peugeot,
Turin, Italy-based Fiat and the European units of  General Motors
Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  are posting losses. The U.S. carmakers
have scheduled several days of shutdowns at their main German
plants starting this month, and GM’s Opel brand is looking at
closing a factory in the city of Bochum after 2016.  Peugeot, which is closing a plant on the outskirts of Paris
and cutting 8,000 jobs, is selling its Gefco logistics business
to OAO Russian Railways for 800 million euros, a transaction
that will also generate a special 100 million-euro dividend for
Europe’s second-largest carmaker.  Renault Chief Operating Officer  Carlos Tavares  said today
that the “storm in Europe risks continuing.” The Boulogne-
Billancourt, France-based carmaker is currently using shortened
workweeks for some factory employees to lower production, La
Tribune newspaper cited Tavares as saying. His comments were
confirmed by Raluca Barb, a Renault spokeswoman.  Monti Meeting  Fiat’s volume car brands, which include  Alfa Romeo  and
Lancia, plan to cut 110 of 550 managerial positions in Europe,
according to the person, who asked not to be identified
discussing internal personnel decisions. The manufacturer
expects an operating loss of 700 million euros in Europe at its
volume brands this year.  CEO  Sergio Marchionne  is meeting with Prime Minister  Mario Monti  tomorrow in Rome to outline his plans for Fiat’s Italian
operations.  “We have to avoid that an economic crisis will become a
structural crisis -- meaning plant closings, production
halted,” Gianfranco Polillo, an undersecretary in Italy’s
 Finance Ministry , said in a Bloomberg TV interview. “We need to
stay calm.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  