-- Port Authority May Take Over Atlantic City’s Airport
-- B y   M a r t i n   B r a u n
-- 2012-09-20T23:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/port-authority-considers-taking-control-of-atlantic-city-airport.html
The  Port Authority  of  New York  and
 New Jersey , operator of the New York City area’s three major
airports, approved spending $3 million to study a possible
takeover of Atlantic City’s terminal.  The agency’s board said that assuming its operations would
boost the region’s flight capacity and serve Atlantic City’s
casino industry.  “Atlantic City International Airport may provide a good
fit with our current air operations, easing congestion and
opening up new opportunities,” Port Authority Chairman David Samson said today in a news release.  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  has made reviving
Atlantic City a centerpiece of his plans to boost New Jersey’s
economy. He has eased regulations and given the state a greater
role in policing and development. He awarded Revel Entertainment
Group LLC a $261 million tax break to help restart construction
of the city’s first new casino in nine years. Christie, a
Republican, oversees the Port Authority with New York Governor
 Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat.  Atlantic City’s airport, managed by the South Jersey
Transportation Authority, served 1.4 million travelers in 2011.
In 2007, the Port Authority acquired Stewart International
Airport about 60 miles (97 kilometers) north of New York City to
relieve congestion at John F. Kennedy International, LaGuardia
and Newark Liberty airports.  The study will allow the Port Authority to determine
whether it can run the Atlantic City airport more efficiently
while reducing air-travel congestion, New Jersey Transportation
Commissioner  James Simpson  said by e-mail. Simpson chairs the
South Jersey Transportation Authority.  “The metropolitan New York airports that the Port
Authority operates are tremendously busy, while ACY has untapped
capacity,” Simpson said using the Atlantic City airport code.
“There have been times when ACY has remained open when bad
weather has prompted flight cancellations at Newark, LaGuardia
and Kennedy.”  Last year, 106 million passengers traveled through the Port
Authority’s four commercial airports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  