-- Poverty, Inequality Aren’t as Bad as You Think
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-20T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/poverty-inequality-aren-t-as-bad-as-you-think-view.html
Poverty statistics can be used to
prove almost anything.  When the U.S. Census Bureau reported last week that 46
million Americans, or 15 percent of the population, live in
poverty, conservatives said that five decades of the welfare
state have had virtually no effect. Liberals answered that
laissez-faire economics have kept poverty rates stubbornly high.  This debate is based on a false premise: Poverty isn’t as
high as the U.S. government says it is. The reason is that
federal programs, supported by Democrats and Republicans alike,
have dramatically reduced poverty and, by extension,  income
inequality .  To understand why, let’s look at what the numbers don’t
show. The Census Bureau doesn’t count safety-net benefits,
including  food stamps , housing aid, school lunches and other
noncash transfers. Adding the cash value of food stamps alone
would lower the poverty population by 3.9 million people. Census
data also overcompensate for inflation by ignoring discount
prices at big-box outlets such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc., where
many low-income families shop. The figures don’t even factor in
Medicare and Medicaid benefits.  Most Overlooked  But tax credits are the most overlooked numbers of all.
One, the  Earned Income Tax Credit , is refundable, meaning that
some low-income breadwinners get a check from the  Internal
Revenue Service  even if their earnings are so small that they
owe no income tax. Counting that tax credit would decrease the
number of people living in poverty by another 5.7 million.  The Census Bureau defines a family of four with income less
than $23,021 as impoverished. But a better portrait of poverty
in America would count all government benefits and tax credits,
raising many households’ income considerably. An even truer
picture of deprivation would measure consumption (how much a
household spends on rent, autos, food and other items) rather
than income (how much a household admits to bringing home in
earnings). Incomes are unreliable because people are reluctant
to reveal how much they make. They are less reticent when asked
if they have television sets, cars and air conditioning, or if
they eat out and go to movies.  When adjusted for these flaws, the level of poverty is much
lower, says a new paper by economists Bruce D. Meyer at the
 University of Chicago  and James X. Sullivan at the University of
 Notre Dame . Instead of 15 percent, it is only 4 percent to 5
percent. And instead of being higher than it was in 1980,
poverty has declined by two-thirds.  In other words, the war on poverty hasn’t been won, but
it’s making inroads. The lion’s share of the credit, the
professors conclude, goes to the Earned Income Tax Credit, the
Child Tax Credit and Social Security.  This may not jibe with Republican presidential nominee  Mitt
Romney ’s quip about the “culture of dependency,” a trait he
ascribed to a remarkable 47 percent of voters. The opposite is
true: Anti-poverty programs have reduced dependency and
encouraged work -- and can be fashioned to work even better.  One option is to strengthen the Earned Income Tax Credit.
It began under one Republican president ( Gerald Ford ), was
improved by another ( Ronald Reagan ), and was made refundable by
a Democrat ( Bill Clinton ) -- in each case with the support of
congressional Republicans.  Studies  show the tax credit was the
most important factor in reducing welfare rolls, even more so
than the 1996 welfare-reform law. Now geared toward single-
parent families, the credit could be expanded to help two-parent
families and parents without custody of their children.  Important Stabilizers  Automatic stabilizers are also important and shouldn’t be
undermined, as the budget  blueprint  by U.S. Representative  Paul Ryan , Romney’s running mate, would do. As Bloomberg View
columnist  Peter Orszag  has  written , eligibility for food stamps,
 unemployment insurance  and relief to state governments should
expand automatically, without waiting for Congress to act, when
the economy is weak.  The implications of all this go beyond politics. Poverty
statistics are one of the U.S.’s most closely watched indicators
of economic well-being. They can help tell us if poverty-
fighting programs are working, or if our taxes are being wasted.
They can also steer policy-setters toward more productive
solutions and away from popular yet misguided ideas.  If poverty figures are overstated, for example, then so is
income inequality. The most-cited  studies  don’t count government
benefits or employer-provided health insurance. There is little
doubt that the chasm between the top 1 percent and the 99
percenters is narrower than we have been led to believe. That
shouldn’t depress liberals or cheer conservatives: The
inequality gap is closing because of government programs, not
the stagnant incomes of the private sector.  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg View. Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  challenges facing Japan’s
leaders ; Stephen L. Carter on how Hustler magazine can inform
 our response to Mideast violence ;  Pankaj Mishra  on the tangled
roots of  the Sino-Japanese territorial spat ; William Pesek on
 Japan’s slow tsunami recovery ;  Jonathan Weil  on  banks inflating
their capital ;  Matt Miller  on the  school strike  the U.S. really
needs; Mel and Patricia Ziegler on  selling Banana Republic to
The Gap .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 