-- Public Power Wins Court Appeal to Overturn Lignite Order
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-09-20T15:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/public-power-wins-court-appeal-to-overturn-eu-lignite-order-1-.html
Public Power Corp SA (PPC)  won a European
Union court ruling that allows it to maintain preferential
access to cheap fuel for power generation, potentially helping
the Greek government in talks with creditors on an economic
overhaul needed to qualify for more emergency loans.  The European Commission failed to show  Public Power  abused
its dominant position in the market for lignite, the EU General
Court in Luxembourg ruled today. Public Power  surged  as much as
8.7 percent in  Athens  trading after the ruling.  Public Power appealed a March 2008 decision by the
commission, the EU’s regulator, that said Greece violates EU law
by giving the company “quasi-exclusive” access to lignite, a
soft, brownish-black coal that is the country’s cheapest
available fuel. Public Power depends on lignite, among the most-
polluting fuels, to help cover losses on natural-gas generation.  The commission can’t “maintain that it was not required to
identify and establish the abuse of a dominant position” from
state actions, the court said in today’s ruling.  Public Power shares  climbed  3.57 percent to 4.06 euros in
Athens. The stock has risen 17.3 percent in the last three days.  The Greek government of Prime Minister Antonis Samaras is
working with the so-called troika of officials from the European
Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the  International
Monetary Fund  to find another 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion) of
budget cuts, out of a total 11.5 billion-euro package, required
to get more funds from international bailout packages, a Greek
finance ministry official said yesterday.  Bargaining Power  The court ruling may give PPC and the government more
bargaining power regarding the plan to sell four of the
company’s lignite-fired generating plants.  “The judgments of the General Court of the European Union
are undoubtedly key milestones for the Greek electricity market
and differentiate significantly the terms and the path for the
further opening up of the electricity market,” Athens-based PPC
said in a statement.  “PPC sticks to its position for the further liberalization
of the Greek  electricity market , which should be implemented by
fully respecting the rule of law and promote healthy competition
amongst all participants,” said the company.  If it is accepted “that access to lignite reserves does
not provide PPC with an unfair advantage in the wholesale
electricity market, then the Troika’s demand for a
liberalization of the lignite-generation market will be
significantly weakened,” Paris Mantzavras, an analyst at
Athens-based Pantelakis Securities, said in a note today.  Commission’s Reasoning  The court rejected the commission’s reasoning that it’s
enough to show a violation of EU law by establishing that a
state measure, such as the one by Greece to give PPC quasi-
exclusive access to the cheap fuel, creates an inequality of
opportunities. To show such a violation, the commission would
also have to “identify an abuse of the dominant position,” the
court said.  PPC has said its costs are about half as much on lignite as
with cleaner gas.  Greece  trails Germany and  Poland  among EU
lignite producers, according to the  European Association for
Coal and Lignite .  The Brussels-based commission said it would carefully
analyze the judgment. The commission can file an appeal with the
EU Court of Justice, the 27-nation bloc’s highest court.  The cases are: T-169/08, T-421/09, DEI v. Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  