-- Ralls Drops Bid for Court Order to Resume Wind Project
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-09-20T13:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/ralls-drops-bid-for-court-order-to-resume-wind-project.html
Ralls Corp. dropped its bid for a
court order permitting the Chinese-owned company to resume a
wind-farm project near a U.S. Navy installation in  Oregon  that
was blocked by a Treasury Department-led national-security
panel.  The parties have reached an agreement about the
“resumption of certain preliminary construction activities,”
according to a motion filed yesterday in federal court in
 Washington . U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson canceled a
hearing set for today and asked for a status report on Oct. 1.  Ralls, which is owned by executives of China-based Sany
Group Inc., bought the wind-farm assets this year without
reporting the transaction to the Committee on Foreign Investment
in the U.S., according to a government filing in the case. The
assets consist of four locations, one of which is within
restricted airspace the Navy uses for training, according to
court documents. Three other properties are within five miles of
the restricted airspace, according to the filings.  After conducting an investigation, the CFIUS issued an
order on July 25 citing “national security risks” raised by
the sale of the assets to Ralls and directing the company to
stop all construction and operations at the wind-farm locations,
according to the filing.  More Prohibitions  An amended order on Aug. 2 added more prohibitions,
including the sale or transfer of the assets to any third party
for the “use or installation at the properties of any items
made or otherwise produced by the Sany Group.”  Ralls said the panel exceeded its authority when it ordered
the company to cease operations and keep out of the wind-farm
sites, according to a complaint filed Sept. 12.  A Justice Department lawyer told Jackson on Sept. 18 that
President  Barack Obama  would decide whether to let the wind-farm
project proceed. She urged the government and Ralls to try to
reach an agreement. The deadline for the president to decide is
Sept. 28.  CFIUS is an interagency committee headed by Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  that reviews the national security
implications of transactions that could lead to a non-U.S.
citizen controlling a U.S. business.  The heads of the departments of Justice,  Homeland Security ,
Commerce, Defense, State, and Energy, among others, sit on the
committee. The panel’s recommendations can be enforced only by
the president under the law.  Ralls had been seeking a temporary restraining order and
preliminary injunction that would permit the company to resume
construction of the wind farms by today. If the wind farms
aren’t in service by Dec. 31, then the company won’t be able to
obtain $25 million in federal investment tax incentives,
according to a court filing.  The case is Ralls Corp. v. Committee on Foreign Investment
in the U.S., 1:12-cv-01513, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 