-- Rand Slumps to Week-Low as Central Bank Lowers Growth Estimate
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-09-20T15:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/rand-slumps-to-week-low-as-commodities-tumble-on-china-growth.html
The rand fell to its lowest level
in a week as stocks and metal prices tumbled after reports
signaled economies in Europe and  Asia  are slowing, fueling
concern South Africa’s export prospects will deteriorate.  The rand retreated as much as 1.3 percent to 8.3835 per
dollar, the weakest since Sept. 13, before paring its decline
after South Africa’s central bank left its benchmark lending
rate unchanged. It traded 0.7 percent lower at 8.3301 as of 4:48
p.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 rose
for the first time in four days, adding four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 6.68 percent.  The South African Reserve Bank today revised its growth
forecasts down, saying it is concerned about global risks to the
domestic economy. Euro-area services and manufacturing output
fell to a 39-month low in September and  China ’s manufacturing
probably contracted for an 11th month, according to data from
Markit Economics and HSBC Holdings Plc. Japan’s exports slid for
a third month in August, the  Finance Ministry  said. More
Americans than forecast filed applications for  unemployment
benefits  last week, the Labor Department said.  “There is no way our exports are going to pick up if the
world’s leading economies are in decline,” Ian Cruickshanks,
head of strategic research at  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  in
Johannesburg, said by phone. “That is quite worrying for the
outlook for the rand exchange rate.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of raw materials declined
for a fourth day to the lowest since Aug. 13 as the prices of
metals including copper, nickel and platinum fell. Metals and
other commodities account for 45 percent of South Africa’s
exports, according to government data.  The South African Reserve Bank’s Monetary Policy Committee
left its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 5 percent today as
rising food and fuel costs limited room to stimulate growth. The
central bank said today South Africa’s economy will probably
expand 2.6 percent this year, compared with an earlier estimate
of 2.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  