-- TransAlta Sees Power Generation Growth With Canada LNG Exports
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-09-20T21:40:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/transalta-sees-power-generation-growth-with-canada-lng-exports.html
TransAlta Corp. (TA) ,  Canada ’s largest
publicly-traded power generator, expects development of
liquefied natural gas exports from Canada to provide
opportunities for expanding electricity production in western
Canada.  LNG plants, which cool gas to a liquid, may need as much as
2,000 megawatts of new generating capacity to serve them in
locations such as Kitimat and Prince Rupert, in northern British
Columbia, Chief Executive Officer Dawn Farrell said in an
interview yesterday. The Calgary-based company is already
talking with backers of proposed LNG projects, such as Apache
Corp. and Royal Dutch Shell Plc.  “LNG could be very big,” she said. “They need cheap
power. It’s not to serve Canadians - we have enough. It’s to
serve our trading partners.”  TransAlta has focused on supplying commodity exporters in
western Canada and  Australia  with power for extracting and
processing resources such as oil and gas. British Columbia Hydro
& Power Authority, the provincially owned utility, and the
government have to determine how power will be supplied to the
Canadian LNG industry, said Farrell.  Producers in Canada, whose largest market is the U.S., are
seeking new buyers as North American output climbs and gas
prices trade near 10-year lows. About 62 percent of Canadian gas
was exported to the U.S. in 2010, according to the Canadian
Association of Petroleum Producers, an industry group.  Asian Demand  Chinese consumption of the fuel has increased an average of
about 16 percent annually from 2000 to 2010 and will continue
expanding as much as 12 percent a year through 2020, according
to Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates.  Japan  is looking to
import more gas after idling its nuclear power plants following
the March 2011 earthquake and meltdown at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
reactors.  Shell, Houston-based Apache, the U.K.’s BG Group Plc and
Haisla Nation, an aboriginal group centered in Kitimat, British
Columbia, the coastal base for many of the proposed LNG
terminals, are behind as many as seven proposed projects for
Canada’s Pacific coast.  TransAlta will continue to make acquisitions, using debt if
necessary, to continue expanding its business, she said.
Acquisitions, probably gas plants or wind farms, may cost the
company between C$300 million ($307 million) and C$500 million
annually, Farrell said.  California also is an “interesting” market for TransAlta,
with opportunities to buy wind or gas projects, Farrell said.
The company already operates a geothermal plant in the U.S.’s
largest state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  