-- RBA Swings to Profit as Stevens Gets Paid Almost A$1 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-09-20T05:54:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/rba-swings-to-profit-as-stevens-gets-paid-almost-a-1-million.html
The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia 
returned to a profit in the 12 months through June as it sold
foreign securities and local assets increased in value.  The nation’s central bank posted net income of A$1.08
billion ($1.1 billion), it said in its 2012  annual report  today.
Underlying earnings were A$710 million; realized valuation
profits totaled A$405 million; and unrealized valuation losses
amounted to A$39 million, it said.  “The very large rise in the  exchange rate  that had been a
feature of the preceding years – and which saw the Reserve Bank
recording large valuation losses – abated,” Governor  Glenn Stevens  said in the report. “Underlying earnings remained low,
however – in fact, they were lower in nominal terms than at any
time in the past three decades, due to the very low level of
yields on the Bank’s assets.”  Stevens’s total compensation was A$986,778, the central
bank said, unadjusted from a year earlier.  In addition to foreign currency assets, the RBA holds 80
metric tons of gold on its balance sheet. Over 2011-12, the
price of gold rose 12 percent in Australian dollar terms, the
central bank said. As a result, the value of the central bank’s
holdings of gold rose by A$400 million to A$4 billion at the end
of June, according to the report.  A lack of activity in the gold lending market continued in
the latest fiscal year, the RBA said. At the end of June, there
was 1 ton of gold on loan, it said.  Australia’s central bank lowered  interest rates  by 1.25
percentage points from November to June to help shield the
economy from slower global growth.  “The cash rate ended the financial year at 3.5 percent,
which by historical standards is unusually low, and which helped
to produce lending rates in the economy a little below their
medium-term averages,” Stevens said in his statement
accompanying the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  