-- Real Estate Investors Plan to Purchase More Homes in U.S.
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-09-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/real-estate-investors-plan-to-purchase-more-homes-in-u-s-.html
Almost two-thirds of U.S.
residential real estate investors plan to buy as many as or more
homes in the next 12 months than they have in the past year even
as prices  rise , according to a survey released today.  About 39 percent of active property investors intend to
step up their purchases, while 26 percent expect to buy the same
number in the coming year, according to a survey conducted by
ORC International, a Princeton, New Jersey-based research firm.
About 30 percent of investors plan to reduce their purchases,
the study showed.  “Though housing markets are changing across the nation,
investors are still seeing great opportunities,” Josh Dorkin,
chief executive officer of BiggerPockets.com, a Denver-based
real estate social-networking company that commissioned the
survey, said in a statement. “They will certainly continue to
be major players in the nation’s housing economy for the
foreseeable future.”  Rising rents are benefiting the 28.1 million U.S.
residential real estate investors -- people who own property as
landlords rather than as occupants -- Dorkin said. Demand for
rentals has risen as people with damaged credit or lack of money
for down payments stay out of the homebuying market.  Low  mortgage rates  and prices about one-third below their
2006 peak have made buying cheaper than renting in all 100 of
the largest U.S. metropolitan areas, according to a Sept. 13
report by Trulia Inc., a San Francisco-based real estate
information service.  Investors purchased 18 percent of houses in August, up from
16 percent in July and down from 22 percent in August 2011, the
National Association of Realtors reported yesterday. The median
 price  of an existing home climbed 9.5 percent from a year
earlier to $187,400, while the annual  sales pace  rose to the
highest level in two years.  Distressed Properties  Deals for distressed homes -- properties seized properties
and short sales, in which properties are purchased for less than
their mortgage balances -- accounted for 22 percent of
transactions in August, down from 31 percent a year earlier, as
the sales volume increased and fewer foreclosures came to
market, the Realtors group said.  The telephone survey of 3,036 real estate investors was
conducted in August for BiggerPockets.com and  Memphis  Invest, a
single-family home investment-advisory firm based in Memphis,
 Tennessee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  