-- Treasuries Erase Ease Gains as Demand Drops at TIPS Sale
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-09-20T21:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/treasuries-hold-gain-before-reports-on-economy.html
Treasury notes erased gains as an
auction of inflation-indexed notes drew the weakest demand in
more than three years amid speculation that consumer prices may
not rise as fast as their yields indicated following the latest
monetary stimulus measures announced by the  Federal Reserve .  The $13 billion 10-year issue’s  bid-to-cover  ratio, which
gauges demand by comparing the amount bid with the amount
offered, was 2.36, the lowest level since April 2009. Primary
dealers, who are required to bid in U.S. auctions, ended up with
48.5 percent of the Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, the
most since the January sale and more than the average of the 10
previous auctions.  “TIPS just got too rich, too fast, and a lot of the buyers
stepped back,” said Aaron Kohli, an interest-rate strategist
BNP Paribas SA in New York, one of the 21 primary dealers.
“That left the dealers holding a lot of it.”  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes were little changed at
1.76 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The price of the 1.625 percent security due in
August 2022 added 2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000 face amount, to
98 3/4. The yield had declined as much as five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, before the TIPS auction.  The  difference  in yields between 10-year bonds and TIPS
touched 2.7289 percentage points on Sept. 14, the most since May
2006. The gap, an indicator of traders’ inflation expectations
known as the break-even rate, dropped today to 2.51 percent.  Record Demand  Investors have shown record demand for Treasuries at
government debt auctions so far this year, bidding $3.16 for
every dollar of the $1.519 trillion of notes and bonds the U.S.
has sold this year. That tops the record set $3.04 last year
when the Treasury sold $2.135 trillion of notes and bonds.  The TIPS were sold today at a record low negative yield of
 0.75 percent , versus the average forecast of negative 0.812
percent in a  Bloomberg News  survey of eight primary dealers. It
was the fifth consecutive sale of the notes where investors were
willing to pay the U.S. to hold their principal.  Treasuries rose earlier for a fourth day as speculation the
global economy is slowing fueled investor appetite for the
safety of U.S. government securities. A gauge showed
Philadelphia area manufacturing shrank for a fifth month and
purchasing-manager indexes showed both Chinese and euro-area
manufacturing contracted.  Inflation expectation had soared after the Fed said Sept.
13 that it would begin buying $40 billion of mortgage-backed
securities each month until the economic recovery is well
established.  ‘Got Overdone’  The Fed’s preferred measure of gauging the outlook for
inflation, the  five-year , five-year forward break-even rate,
which projects the pace of consumer price increases starting in
2017, rose to 2.88 percent on Sept. 14, the highest since August
2011. It was 2.43 percent on Aug. 31.  “People got a little caught up with the inflation risk,
that it was going to be inflationary right away,” said Justin Lederer, an  interest-rate  strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in
New York, a primary dealer. “The market got overdone last week
and needed a little time to re-price.”  A preliminary index of  China ’s manufacturing was 47.8 for
September, versus 47.6 last month, according to HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics. A similar index of euro-area
manufacturing was 46 this month, versus 45.1 in August, separate
data showed. Readings less than 50 indicate contraction.  Slowing Growth  The Labor Department reported that more Americans than
forecast filed  applications  for  unemployment benefits  last week.
Jobless claims decreased by 3,000 in the week ended Sept. 15 to
382,000, department figures showed today in  Washington . The
median forecast of 49 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
projected 375,000.  The Fed Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic  index  was
negative 1.9 in September, compared with minus 7.1 the previous
month. The Conference Board’s index of U.S. leading economic
indicators fell 0.1 percent in August, led by a decline in new
orders for manufacturing, after a revised 0.5 percent increase
in July.  “There’s growing sentiment that the major economies around
the world are slowing down,” said  David Coard , head of fixed-
income trading in New York at Williams Capital Group, a
brokerage for institutional investors. “That’s helping to
generate a bid for Treasuries.”  Fed Bank of Minneapolis President  Narayana Kocherlakota 
said the central bank should hold the main interest rate near
zero until unemployment falls below 5.5 percent, marking the
first time he has linked policy to a specific economic goal.  Inflation Targeting  “As long as the FOMC is continuing to satisfy its  price
stability  mandate, it should keep the fed funds rate
extraordinarily low until the  unemployment rate  has fallen below
5.5 percent,” Kocherlakota said today in a speech in Ironwood,
 Michigan , referring the policy-setting  Federal Open Market
Committee .  The central bank cut its target rate to virtually zero in
December 2008 in the aftermath of the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and the freezing of the credit markets.  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  was the first central
bank official to propose calibrating monetary policy based on
specific economic goals. Evans advocates holding to  near-zero
rates  until the jobless rate falls below 7 percent or inflation
reaches 3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  