-- Reid Predicts Deal to Avoid ‘Fiscal Cliff’ by End of Year
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-09-20T19:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/reid-predicts-deal-to-avoid-fiscal-cliff-by-end-of-year-1-.html
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
predicted Congress will reach a deal after the Nov. 6 election
to avert hundreds of billions of dollars in tax increases and
spending cuts known as the “fiscal cliff” set to begin in
January.  “I do not believe that we are going to go over the fiscal
cliff,” Reid, a Nevada Democrat, told reporters in Washington
today, adding that he opposed a short-term deal. “I’m in favor
of long term.”  Unless Congress acts, $1.2 trillion in automatic spending
cuts will begin in January and the George W. Bush-era tax cuts
will expire Dec. 31. The  Congressional Budget Office  estimates
the fiscal changes would amount to $607 billion in tax increases
and spending reductions for 2013 alone. Democrats propose
letting tax cuts expire for top earners, while Republicans want
to extend the tax cuts for everyone and back spending reductions
instead of more  tax revenue .  Congress is set to leave town at the end of the week to
campaign for the election without resolving how to address the
tax cuts or spending reductions.  Senator  Richard Durbin  of Illinois, a Democrat, told
reporters today that the partisan divide in Congress that has
impeded a deal will diminish after the election.  ‘Holding Back’  “There is a sentiment moving towards a bipartisan
solution, and we have to wait for the outcome of the election,”
Durbin said. “People are obviously holding back until they see
that.”  Durbin is a member of the bipartisan Gang of Six that last
year crafted a deficit-reduction framework based on the failed
2010 Simpson-Bowles commission. The group has since expanded to
include Senator Michael Bennet, a Colorado Democrat, and Senator
 Lamar Alexander , a Tennessee Republican, among others. Its
members say they want to develop a proposal to galvanize
senators when Congress returns in mid-November.  Senator  Ben Cardin , a Maryland Democrat, said discussions
are under way among senators about how to avert the fiscal
cliff.  “The Senate probably has more consensus on the need for us
to come together than the House and I think there’s a lot of us
on both sides of the aisle trying to figure out where we can,”
Cardin said in an interview.  Top Earners  Former Senator  Byron Dorgan , a North Dakota Democrat, said
the relatively low tax rates paid by billionaire  Warren Buffett 
and Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  have
crystallized debate over top earners’ taxes and made it easier
for moderate Democrats and Democrats in Republican-leaning
states to support raising taxes on top earners.  “There’s been such debate about it,” said Dorgan, who
didn’t seek re-election in 2010 and is now a senior policy
adviser at Arent Fox LLP in Washington. “The Romney example is
so clear. I think everybody in the country now understands it.”  Some Republicans say the divide between the parties on  tax
policy  will continue to be a barrier to an agreement, regardless
of the election’s outcome.  “You get back to the same old issue that we haven’t been
able to bridge the gap, that has prevented agreement,” said Jon Gans, a former senior adviser to Senator  Jon Kyl , an  Arizona 
Republican. Gans is now a managing director at the Glover Park
Group, a communications firm in Washington.  Alternative Minimum Tax  Some expiring tax provisions, including language to prevent
more people from paying the alternative minimum tax, will affect
the 2012 tax filing season that is scheduled to begin in January
2013.  “Obviously, end of year is critical for that,” said
Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican and chairman of
the House Ways and Means Committee. Camp led a closed-door,
bipartisan meeting of the committee today.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , said on
Sept. 11 that he was “not confident at all” that Congress
would reach a deal on avoiding the spending cuts set to take
effect in January.  Also today, the U.S. Conference of Mayors sent a letter
urging congressional leaders to head off the automatic federal
spending reductions. The cuts would force deeper reductions in
city workforces already slashed since the recession and deal a
new blow to still-struggling economies, the letter said.  “This is the wrong time to send a negative economic
jolt,” Minneapolis Mayor R.T. Rybak told reporters in
 Washington .  In Philadelphia, the spending cuts would eliminate 400
slots in early childhood education programs, curb counseling for
homeowners facing foreclosure and take away money used to
eliminate lead from aging dwellings, Mayor Michael Nutter said.  Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed said the cuts would jeopardize the
jobs of 125 police and firefighters, as well as funding for a
$100 million streetcar project.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  