-- Republicans Fault Justice Department After Gun Operation
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-09-20T19:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/republicans-fault-justice-department-after-gun-operation.html
 U.S.  House Republicans  seized on a
 report  on a  law enforcement  operation that allowed guns to
illegally flow into  Mexico  as an example of failures at the
 Justice Department .  The report issued yesterday shows a “breach of trust” by
those involved in Operation Fast and Furious, including law
enforcement and Justice Department officials, said House
Oversight and Government Committee Chairman  Darrell Issa  at a
hearing today in  Washington .  Issa said his committee will continue to pursue its
investigation, including a civil complaint filed in August
seeking to compel Attorney General Eric Holder to release
documents sought by the panel.  Issa criticized Holder for waiting to discipline employees
involved in the operation and said 14 officials referred by the
inspector general for possible disciplinary action should “find
appropriate new occupations.”  “Operation Fast and Furious is a poster child for what you
don’t do with deadly weapons,” Issa said at a hearing with
Justice Department Inspector General Michael E. Horowitz.  President  Barack Obama  said today that the inspector
general’s report confirmed that Holder didn’t know details about
the operation. Responding to a question at a Univision forum in
 Florida , Obama said he retains full confidence in Holder.  Management Failures  The 471-page report released by Horowitz yesterday outlined
management failures at the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms
and Explosives and the Justice Department, as well as flaws in
the program that lost track of about 2,000 guns purchased by
straw buyers. ATF is part of the Justice Department.  Two of the guns were found at the scene of the 2010 killing
in  Arizona  of U.S. Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry.  Republicans on the oversight panel asked Horowitz what
senior Justice Department officials knew and how the operation
could go on without major notice at the department’s top levels.  “How does this go on for so long without somebody saying
something is wrong here?” asked Representative  Jason Chaffetz ,
a Utah Republican.  Holder, in a statement yesterday, announced the immediate
departure of two officials referred by Horowitz for discipline.
Kenneth Melson, the ATF’s former acting director, retired and
Jason Weinstein, a deputy assistant attorney general, resigned.  Alerting Officials  Assistant Attorney General Lanny Breuer and former Acting
Deputy Attorney General Gary Grindler, also among the 14
officials referred by the report, will not face disciplinary
action, according to a Justice Department official with
knowledge of the matter who asked for anonymity. The official
wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  Breuer said last year he regretted not doing more to alert
senior Justice Department officials when he learned about a
similar gun operation that began during President  George W.
Bush ’s administration. Breuer was admonished last year for
failing to alert his superiors and no further action will be
taken, the Justice Department official said.  “We were troubled by his decision to not tell the attorney
general about it because they have authority over the ATF; he
does not,” Horowitz said.  No action was deemed necessary for Grindler, now Holder’s
chief of staff, who relied on a  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
probe into the guns found at the scene of Terry’s killing, the
official said.  First Major Report  Horowitz, confirmed in March, was lauded by lawmakers of
both political parties for his first major report. He said his
office was responsible for making referrals for discipline and
it is “up to the attorney general to decide what, if any,
discipline should be imposed.”  Republican lawmakers, led by Senator  Charles Grassley  of
Iowa and Issa of  California , have battled with the Justice
Department for months for details of the program, testimony and
documents as they attempted to trace how high up the failures
reached.  More than 100 House lawmakers called for Holder’s
resignation as a result of the operation and the department’s
refusal to give certain documents to congressional investigators
looking into the program. The House in June found Holder in
contempt of Congress for his refusal to provide certain
documents after Obama asserted executive privilege.  Holder’s Oversight  Republicans have faulted Holder’s oversight of Fast and
Furious and his responses to lawmakers’ queries about it. Holder
wasn’t found in the report to have known about the operation
until early 2011, when lawmakers began to probe its fallout.
Democrats on the committee pointed to that conclusion today’s
hearing.  “This attorney general, while not perfect, was not guilty
of the things that people on this committee and others in the
press have accused him of,” said Representative Stephen Lynch,
a Massachusetts Democrat.  Holder criticized the lawmakers conducting their own probe
into the operation yesterday, saying it was “unfortunate that
some were so quick to make baseless allegations before they
possessed the facts.”  Representative  Elijah Cummings  of  Maryland , the top
Democrat on the panel, echoed Holder’s criticism today, saying
“public accusations were sometimes made before the search for
evidence even occurred.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  