-- Reserve Primary Fund’s SEC Trial Postponed Until Oct. 9
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-09-20T22:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/reserve-primary-fund-trial-against-sec-delayed-to-oct-9.html
Reserve Primary Fund’s trial in a
lawsuit filed by the U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission  was
postponed until Oct. 9, according to court records.  The SEC sued managers of Reserve Primary in May 2009,
accusing them of misleading shareholders about the safety of the
fund after it suffered losses on Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
debt. Reserve’s net asset value fell below $1 a share on Sept.
16, 2008, making investors vulnerable to losses and triggering a
run on money-market funds that worsened the global financial
crisis.  The trial was previously set to start Oct. 1. U.S. District
Judge Paul Gardephe in  Manhattan , who is presiding over the
case, didn’t give a reason for the delay in an order filed
today.  At a Sept. 12 hearing before Gardephe, a lawyer for the
defendants told the judge he was hopeful a settlement could be
reached with the U.S.  The SEC accuses Bruce R. Bent, the founder and chief
executive officer of Reserve Partners, which ran Reserve
Primary, and his son, Bruce Bent II, the firm’s president, of
violating federal securities laws by making misleading
statements to investors and trustees in the run-up to the
collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund in September
2008.  The fund, which held $785 million in debt issued by Lehman,
became the first money fund in 14 years to expose investors to
losses when Lehman filed for  bankruptcy protection .  Bent and his New York-based firm deny they made false or
misleading statements and say that the Lehman bankruptcy on
Sept. 15, 2008, precipitated a wave of redemptions by investors
that continued through the following day.  John Dellaportas, a lawyer for the defendants, declined to
comment on today’s filing.  The case is SEC v. Reserve Management Co. Inc. 09-cv-04346,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  