-- Ringgit Declines as China Manufacturing Data Dim Export Outlook
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2012-09-20T08:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/ringgit-declines-as-china-manufacturing-data-dim-export-outlook.html
The ringgit fell to the lowest
level this week, reversing an earlier gain, after a private
survey signaling a drop in China’s manufacturing dimmed the
outlook for Malaysian exports.  Government bonds  rose.  A purchasing managers’ index for China released today by
HSBC Holdings Plc and  Markit Economics  indicated a preliminary
reading of 47.8, an 11th monthly decline. A reading below 50
indicates contraction. China was the second-largest buyer of
Malaysian goods in July. Beijing should make all preparations
for its territorial dispute with Japan over islands in the East
China Sea, including for military conflict, Wang Xiaoxuan,
director of the Naval Research Institute of the  People’s
Liberation Army , wrote in the China Daily newspaper today.  “The China numbers were very disappointing and I am very
much pricing in a hard landing for the Chinese economy,” said
Suresh Kumar Ramanathan, a currency strategist at CIMB
Investment Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “The geopolitical risks
surrounding the Japanese-Chinese spat are pushing the move in
the ringgit.”  The ringgit declined 0.3 percent to 3.0715 per dollar as of
4:29 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 3.0778, the weakest since Sept. 14. One-
month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used
to price options, held at 6.70 percent.  Malaysia’s inflation held at 1.4 percent in August, the
least in more than two years, official data showed yesterday.  Government bonds advanced. The yield on the 3.197 percent
notes due October 2015 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 3.14 percent, according to Bursa Malaysia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 