-- Rockets Sign Accord With East West Bank After Adding Jeremy Lin
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-09-20T04:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/rockets-sign-accord-with-east-west-bank-after-adding-jeremy-lin.html
The  Houston Rockets  signed a three-
year marketing agreement with East West Bank, the latest
association between the National Basketball Association team and
a company with operations in China.  The accord, which gives East West in-arena and on-air
exposure to fans through the 2014 season, comes two months after
the Rockets added Jeremy Lin to their roster. Houston entered
deals with Asian companies after signing Chinese center  Yao Ming 
in 2002.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest automaker, put
its name on the team’s arena when it opened in 2003.  “Over the past decade, the Rockets have developed and
established an international following, particularly throughout
Asia,” Rockets Chief Executive Officer Tad Brown said in a
statement. “This partnership with East  West Bank , a leader in
the international banking community, will add to that global
presence.”  East West Bank has its corporate headquarters in Pasadena,
California, and branches throughout the U.S. and China.  Lin, a Harvard University economics graduate and the first
Taiwanese- or Chinese-American to play in the NBA, rose to
prominence when he took over as starting point guard for the  New
York  Knicks in February.  The Knicks allowed him to leave in July when they declined
to match Houston’s three-year, $25 million offer. Under the new
labor accord between the league and its players, Lin’s back-
loaded deal would have cost New York $25 million to $35 million
more in the final season had it matched the contract.  After his retirement from playing to 2011, Yao formed a
partnership with the NBA’s subsidiary in  China , where 300
million people say they’re basketball fans. The 7-foot-6 (2.29
meter) Yao is collaborating with the league to start basketball
and social-development programs for Chinese youth.  Yao’s foundation began a youth basketball program at 47
schools across Sichuan province.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  