-- Romania Gets Four Offers for Oltchim, Holds Auction Tomorrow
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-09-20T13:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/romania-gets-four-offers-for-oltchim-holds-auction-tomorrow-1-.html
Romania  received four offers for
the majority stake in chemical company  Oltchim SA. (OLT)   The bidders are from Germany’s PCC SE, a minority
shareholder in Oltchim, Romanian companies Aisa Invest SA and
Chimcomplex SA as well as media entrepreneur Dan Diaconescu,
Remus Vulpescu, who heads the  Economy Ministry ’s state-asset
sales agency, told reporters in Bucharest today.  The economy ministry will hold an auction tomorrow to sell
its 54.8 percent stake in Oltchim, together with two company
debts towards the state and the power supplier  Electrica SA ,
worth a total of about 1.1 billion lei. The auction will start
at 12:00 p.m. in Bucharest, Vulpescu said.  PCC submitted bids for the stake package and for the debt
while Aisa and Dan Diaconescu are interested in the share
package only. Chimcomplex submitted bids for the shares and for
the debt to Electrica.  The buyer will also have the option to purchase OMV Petrom
SA’s Arpechim refinery after negotiating terms with Romania’s
biggest oil company.  OMV AG (OMV) , Petrom’s majority owner, signed an
accord to sell Arpechim refinery to Oltchim’s buyer, Prime
Minister Victor Ponta said on Sept. 18.  Romania must try to sell the Oltchim shares and a minority
stake in  Transgaz SA (TGN) , the country’s natural-gas grid operator,
by September to get the International Monetary Fund board’s
approval for unlocking the next tranche of its so-called
precautionary accord. It also needs to cut overdue debt of local
authorities and increase natural gas prices, the fund’s Mission
Chief Erik de Vrijer said on Aug. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  