-- Romney Mideast Differences With Obama More Style Than Substance
-- B y   R o m e s h   R a t n e s a r
-- 2012-09-20T02:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/romney-mideast-differences-with-obama-more-style-than-substance.html
Until the last few weeks, foreign
policy remained in the background as President  Barack Obama  and
his Republican challenger,  Mitt Romney , duked it out over the
economy. Then came the storming of U.S. embassies in  Egypt ,
 Sudan , and Yemen, and the deaths of Ambassador Chris Stevens and
three other diplomatic staffers in Benghazi,  Libya .  Suddenly foreign policy became a flash point, with Romney
accusing Obama of sympathizing with the rioters and failing to
protect American interests, and the president countering that
Romney has “a tendency to shoot first and aim later.”  The rhetoric aside, when it comes to the question of how
the U.S. should handle the transformation of the Arab world, the
differences between the candidates have more to do with style
than substance, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Sept. 24
issue.  Romney backed Obama’s decision to call for Egypt’s  Hosni Mubarak  to step down in February 2011 and endorsed NATO’s
intervention in Libya.  As the recent riots unfolded in Cairo, Romney’s advisers
said he would condition $1 billion in aid to Egypt on whether
the country’s new government took steps to protect the U.S.
Embassy. Obama sent a similar warning by calling Egypt “neither
an ally nor an enemy.”  Promoting Democracy  More broadly, both Obama and Romney adhere to the idea that
American interests are best served through the promotion of
democracy in the Middle East, a strategy that became known as
the “Freedom Agenda” under  George W. Bush  and gained momentum
after the Arab Spring of 2011.  Yet whether that approach has made the region any more
stable, or amenable to U.S. influence, is doubtful.  The attacks on American facilities in Libya and elsewhere
“raise troubling questions about the whole experience of the
Arab awakening and why security has gotten so far out of
control,” says Michele Dunne, director of the  Middle East 
program at the  Atlantic Council , a nonpartisan Washington group
that promotes transatlantic cooperation.  In the aftermath of the 2001 attacks on the U.S., a
consensus took hold in America’s foreign policy establishment:
Victory in the war on terrorism required not just the
liquidation of al-Qaeda but the wholesale reform of Islamic
societies.  The overriding goal that guided U.S. policy for half a
century -- preserving regional stability and the balance of
power -- was tossed aside.  In his 2005 inaugural address, Bush declared: “The survival
of liberty in our land increasingly depends on the success of
liberty in other lands.”  Course Change  Later that year, then-Secretary of State  Condoleezza Rice 
said in Cairo, “We are taking a different course. We are
supporting the democratic aspirations of all people.” If the
region’s autocratic leaders failed to set their people free, the
U.S. wouldn’t hesitate to do it for them.  This thinking led in part to the invasion of  Iraq , a war
opposed by Democrats including Obama. Iraq’s descent into chaos,
as well as the electoral triumphs of extremist groups like Hamas
and Hezbollah, caused the  Bush administration  to retreat from
its calls for sweeping change.  After becoming president, Obama initially played down the
Freedom Agenda.  Cairo Speech  In his own speech in Cairo, in 2009, Obama stressed his
commitment “to governments that reflect the will of the
people,” while also saying “no system of government can or
should be imposed upon one nation by any other.”  With the emergence of the Arab Spring, however, he shed his
realist instincts and embraced the project of democratizing the
Middle East. To different degrees, his administration backed the
ouster of Mubarak, Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi, and Yemen’s Ali Abdullah Saleh.  The idea that the U.S. is better off with democratically
elected governments in power than with autocratic ones became a
bipartisan article of faith.  Yet from a national security perspective, the results of
the Arab Spring have been mixed at best. The downfall of secular
dictators in Tunisia and Egypt led to the election of Islamist
parties considered moderate by U.S. policymakers only in
comparison with their hard-line rivals.  The coordinated attack that killed Stevens showed how
terrorists in Libya have taken advantage of the collapse of
Qaddafi’s regime. Arab resentment and suspicion of the U.S.--
fueled by the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, the Obama
administration’s secret drone campaign, and lack of progress on
the Israeli-Palestinian dispute--still run high.  Egyptian Opposition  Even with America’s support for the revolution in Egypt,
only 19 percent of Egyptians have a favorable view of the U.S.,
according to the Pew Research Center’s survey of global public
opinion. That’s down from 30 percent in 2006.  “Things were never going to be easy for the U.S. in the
short and medium term,” says Steven Cook, senior fellow for
Middle Eastern studies at the  Council on Foreign Relations .
“Most people expected these revolutions would bring to power
groups that would be less friendly to the U.S. than the
dictators with whom we had inside deals. In the long term, we
assumed that ultimately democratic governments would be better
for American interests. But that’s just a hunch. Nobody knows
that for sure.”  Pulling Back  For that reason, Cook says, “There is a certain logic to
pulling back” from assertive attempts to remake the region as
the U.S. would like to see it.  That’s already happening. The administration has refrained
from pressuring allies such as Jordan, Bahrain, and  Saudi Arabia 
to move toward representative government.  Even as Romney criticized Obama for “temporizing” on  Syria 
and failing to support the opposition there sooner, neither
candidate supports the idea of intervening in that conflict with
military force.  The longer the turmoil in the Arab world persists, the more
the U.S. will need to accept the limits of what it can achieve
there.  No matter which candidate wins in November, the headiness
of the Freedom Agenda is likely to give way to an era of
diminished expectations in the Middle East.  “We can’t say for sure that U.S. interests will forever be
secured if these countries are making the transition to
democracy -- if they even make a full transition to democracy.
We won’t know until we get there,” says Cook. “But it’s not as
if we can do anything about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romesh Ratnesar in  New York  at 
 rratnesar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  