-- Rosengren Says QE3 Will Prevent Labor Market ‘Scarring’
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-09-20T14:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/rosengren-says-qe3-will-prevent-labor-market-scarring-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said the central bank’s third round of
quantitative easing will bolster the housing market and economy
while helping to prevent lasting damage to the labor market.  “It is important to generate faster growth to avoid what
some call labor market ‘scarring’ -- where long-duration
unemployment becomes ingrained into our labor market,”
Rosengren said today, according to the text of a speech to be
delivered in Quincy, Massachusetts.  Rosengren’s comments contrast with those of Federal Reserve
Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher , who said yesterday that
the bond purchases will probably fail to create jobs while
risking higher inflation. Neither is a voting member this year
of the  Federal Open Market Committee , which last week voted 11-1
to buy $40 billion a month of mortgage-backed securities.  Policy makers led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  are seeking
to boost growth and lower a jobless rate stuck above 8 percent
since February 2009. The FOMC said in its Sept. 13 statement
that economic conditions would likely warrant holding the Fed’s
target interest rates near zero through at least mid-2015 and
that monetary stimulus will remain appropriate for a
“considerable time” after growth strengthens.  Stocks fell today after a report showing that more
Americans than forecast filed claims for  unemployment benefits 
added to concerns that the global economy is cooling. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.6 percent to 1,452.66 at
10:06 a.m. in  New York .  Outdated Skills  “Long periods of unemployment frequently deplete the
savings of the unemployed, make re-employment harder” Rosengren
said, and “may lead to skills becoming less than current.”  Rosengren said that a “very challenging economic climate
confronts us all” and that monetary policy is not “a
panacea.” He added that appropriate fiscal policies in the U.S.
and a pickup in global growth could “both provide significant
positive effects, and shorten the time needed for unconventional
monetary-policy actions like those we have announced.”  The decision to purchase mortgage bonds will place downward
pressure on rates for home loans and help improve property sales
and prices, Rosengren said.  The housing market has already been improving, a trend
confirmed by reports yesterday showing that sales of previously
owned homes and work on single-family projects climbed in August
to the highest levels in two years.  Home Sales  Purchases of existing houses increased 7.8 percent to a
4.82 million annual rate in August, the most since May 2010,
figures from the National Association of Realtors showed
yesterday in  Washington . Commerce Department data showed
builders began work on the most one-family homes since April
2010.  Confidence among homebuilders climbed to the highest level
in more than six years, according to a Sept. 18 report of the
National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo builder
sentiment index.  Rosengren joined Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  and
the New York Fed’s William C. Dudley in defending the third
round of quantitative easing.  Evans said in a speech in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan  on Sept. 18
that the Fed’s actions will help strengthen a pace of growth
that has been “disappointing” and help counteract “greater
downside risks posed by the slowdown in global economic growth,
the economic turmoil in  Europe  and the fast-approaching U.S.
fiscal cliff.” If Congress doesn’t act, more than $600 billion
in automatic tax increases and spending cuts will take effect
starting in January.  ‘Unacceptably Slow’  Dudley said Sept. 18 that without further action from the
Fed, growth would remain “unacceptably slow.” Dudley also said
monetary policy isn’t a “panacea” although a “nudge in the
right direction will move us closer to a self-reinforcing cycle
of more hiring, more spending, more growth, and more
investment.”  Jeffrey Lacker  of the Richmond Fed voted against the
decision to purchase more bonds, extending his string of
dissents from every FOMC decision this year. He said more
stimulus “runs the risk of raising inflation.”  Rosengren said his own economic forecasts assume that
Congress will come to “some sort of agreement” to prevent the
full range of tax increases and spending cuts scheduled to take
effect at the end of the year.  ‘Swamped by Events’  He said he doesn’t worry that QE3 will be ineffective and
is more concerned that “we would be swamped by events out of
our control -- the fiscal cliff, Europe,  China  other things
going on in the world.” He added he does not forecast a
“severe problem” coming from Europe or China.  Fed Presidents rotate voting on monetary policy, with
Rosengren, 55, voting next year. He has led the Boston Fed since
2007. Rosengren’s remarks were titled “Acting to Avoid a ‘Great
Stagnation.’”  “I am very pleased that monetary-policy makers in the U.S.
are proving willing to take difficult actions like these rather
than accept the possibility of a long, slow recovery turning
into a stagnation that someday earns the dubious title of
‘Great,’” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Quincy,  Massachusetts  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  