-- Trulia Soars in Trading After IPO Prices Above Range
-- B y   D a n   L e v y   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-09-20T20:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/trulia-surges-in-trading-debut-after-pricing-ipo-above-range.html
Trulia Inc. (TRLA) , the operator of a
residential-property listings website, climbed 41 percent in its
trading debut after pricing the shares above the proposed range
in an initial public offering.  The shares rose to $24 at the close in  New York . The San
Francisco-based company yesterday raised $102 million for itself
and existing shareholders, selling 6 million shares for $17
each, Trulia said in a statement yesterday.  The IPO attracted higher-than expected demand after
residential  property values  rose 0.5 percent in June from a year
earlier, the first year-over-year gain since September 2010,
according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index of  home prices  in 20
U.S. cities. Sales of existing houses last month jumped to the
highest in more than two years, rising 7.8 percent from August
2011, the National Association of Realtors said yesterday.  “We help consumers find the right place to live and
connect with real estate professionals,” Pete Flint, Trulia’s
chief executive officer, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers,” after the start of trading. “We
help consumers solve really big problems.”  The shares of Trulia’s larger competitor  Zillow Inc. (Z)  have
more than doubled since a July 2011 IPO. Both companies have
been using applications on smartphones and tablets to amass more
users. Trulia is generating revenue by selling subscriptions to
mobile access, and the website and mobile applications are used
by more than 20 million visitors a month, the company said.  $448 Million  Trulia originally offered its shares, representing a 23
percent stake, for $14 to $16, according to a regulatory filing.
At the IPO price, Trulia is valued at about $448 million, or 8.8
times sales of $51 million in the 12 months through June.  The company has been “built up” over the past eight
years, Flint said. The IPO price wasn’t based on the experience
of Facebook Inc., whose shares plunged following its initial
stock sale, he said in today’s interview.  Trulia is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol TRLA. The company will use IPO proceeds for working
capital, according to the filing. The company had $9.46 million
in cash and equivalents as of June 30.  In a separate debut today,  Spirit Realty Capital Inc. (SRC) 
closed at $15, unchanged from its IPO price, after raising $435
million yesterday with 29 million shares sold. The Scottsdale,
Arizona-based owner of single-tenant properties was taken
private by investors led by Macquarie Group Ltd. in 2007. Its
New York Stock Exchange symbol is SRC.  Pending real estate IPOs include Domus Holdings Corp., the
parent company of services firm Realogy Corp., which was taken
private by  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  in 2007, and landlord
Archstone Inc., the 11th largest U.S. apartment owner.
Englewood, Colorado-based Archstone is controlled by Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG led the Trulia
IPO. Morgan Stanley led the Spirit Realty offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  