-- RusHydro Discount Widens on Kyrgyzstan Plants: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-09-20T22:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/rushydro-discount-widens-on-kyrgyzstan-plants-russia-overnight.html
OAO RusHydro (RSHYY)  led declines in
Russian shares traded in  New York , swelling the discount versus
the Moscow stock to the most in seven weeks, on concern its plan
to build factories in Kyrgyzstan will erode profit.  American depositary receipts of  Russia ’s biggest renewable
energy producer lost 2.5 percent to $2.70 yesterday, widening
the discount versus the Moscow shares to 4.6 percent, the most
since July 31. The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-
traded Russian companies in New York dropped 0.4 percent to
100.24 yesterday, the lowest level since Sept. 12.  RTS stock-
index futures  expiring in December rose 0.3 percent to 151,470.  Russia signed an agreement with the Kyrgyz government to
build hydropower plants, Energy Minister Alexander Novak said
yesterday. RusHydro, which is 58 percent state-owned, will
probably report revenue fell for a second year, according to the
mean estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The accord
came as global slowdown concerns mounted after a Chinese
manufacturing survey pointed to a contraction and a separate
report showed euro-area services and manufacturing output fell.  “The Kyrgyzstan project means additional risks for the
stock,” Dmitry Bulgakov, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said
by phone from Moscow yesterday. “It’s a political, rather than
business project, and the concern is that the regulation and
tariffs will not be able to provide returns on investments,
while cash collection could also be a problem.”  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, rose 0.2 percent
to $29.78. The RTS Volatility Index fell 3.6 percent to 30.13
yesterday.  ‘Not Doing Well’  A composite index based on a  survey  of purchasing managers
in both industries in the 17-nation euro area dropped to 45.9
from 46.3 in August, London-based Markit Economics said
yesterday in an initial estimate. A reading below 50 indicates
contraction. Russia is the world’s biggest energy exporter and
the European Union is the country’s biggest trading partner.  The preliminary reading for a  China  purchasing managers’
index by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics was 47.8. If
confirmed, the gauge will post its longest streak below the
expansion-contraction dividing line of 50 in the survey’s eight-
year history.  In the U.S., more Americans than forecast filed
unemployment claims last week and a gauge of leading indicators
fell in August. Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region shrank
for a fifth straight month in September.  “People sell because risks are too high,” Vladimir Tikhomirov, chief economist at Otkritie Capital, said by phone
yesterday from Moscow. “There are signs that the crisis may be
already spreading to  Europe ’s most prosperous countries and the
global economy from China to the U.S. is not doing well.”  Power Plants  RusHydro plans to construct four hydropower stations in
Kyrgyzstan jointly with local group JSC Electric, the Russian
company said in a statement yesterday. The cost of the project,
which can be completed within five years, was estimated at as
much as $425 million in 2009, according to the statement.  RusHydro and Kyrgyzstan’s JSC Electric will set up a joint
venture to construct the stations, and each will control a 50
percent stake in the venture.  The  stock  fell 0.2 percent to 88.39 kopeks, or 2.8 U.S.
cents, in Moscow yesterday. One ADR equals to 100 shares.  Crude oil for October delivery settled at $91.87 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the fourth consecutive
decline. Brent oil for November settlement rose 1.6 percent to
$109.93 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe. Urals
crude, Russia’s chief export blend, gained 2.3 percent to
$109.08 per barrel yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  