-- S. Korea Growth Estimate Cut by IMF as Europe Caps Exports
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-09-20T18:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/s-korea-growth-estimate-cut-by-imf-as-europe-caps-exports-1-.html
South Korea  should continue to
support the economy with  government spending  and low  interest
rates  as growth is set to trail earlier forecasts, the
 International Monetary Fund  said.  Korean growth will be 3 percent this year, down from a June
forecast of 3.25 percent, the IMF said in a report today. The
Fund projects around 4 percent growth next year. The  Bank of
Korea  on July 13 forecast 3 percent growth for 2012 and 3.8
percent for 2013.  The  European debt crisis  is crimping  Korea ’s exports,
weakening economic growth. The IMF will probably lower its 
Korea forecast further when it cuts the global growth outlook 
in a publication due Oct. 9, mission chief Khor Hoe Ee said 
on a conference call today.  “For now, maintaining the currently accommodative monetary
policy stance is appropriate given global weakness and
heightened uncertainties,”  IMF  staff said in an annual
assessment of the country’s economy and policies. “Fiscal
policy should continue to support growth within the constraints
of the current budget.”  The central bank unexpectedly cut  borrowing costs  in July
and has since held rates unchanged, opting to preserve policy
room in the event of a deeper global slowdown. The government on
Sept. 10 announced economic support measures worth $5.2 billion,
including spending and tax benefits to stimulate domestic demand
and investment.  Downside Risks           “There’s certainly scope to provide more support for the
economy but precisely whether to cut or not is really a decision
for the central bank to make,” Khor, also an assistant director
in the  Asia  and Pacific Department, said on the call when asked
whether further interest cuts are needed.  In its article IV report, the IMF said Asia’s fourth-
largest economy has “sufficient policy space” to respond to
severe downside risks, especially on the fiscal front. In a
baseline scenario of gradual economic recovery, the Bank of
Korea should raise interest rates in 2013, the IMF said.  Europe’s debt crisis is capping South Korea’s  exports ,
which fell 6.2 percent in August from a year earlier and the
nation’s economy  expanded 2.3 percent  in the second quarter, the
slowest pace since 2009. Inflation moderated to a 12-year-low 
of 1.2 percent in August.  Asked whether actions by central banks from the U.S. to
Japan to buoy their economies may induce a surge in capital
inflows for Korea and the need for  capital controls , Khor told
reporters that there are pros and cons to the situation and that
the country’s financial system is more resilient than in the
past to withstand such flows if they were to happen.  On the positive side, “the easing of market policy in the
U.S. and other places will help to support growth in the U.S.
and other countries and this will in turn help strengthen”
global demand, Khor said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  