-- Samaras Gets New Rebuff From Coalition on Greek Budget Cuts
-- B y   E l e n i   C h r e p a   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-09-20T15:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/samaras-gets-new-rebuff-from-coalition-on-greek-budget-cuts.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras failed in a fresh bid to clinch agreement from his
coalition on an 11.5 billion-euro ($14.9 billion) budget cuts
package that’s key to releasing international aid funds.  Samaras received the third refusal in less than two weeks
from Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis after talks with
Pasok leader  Evangelos Venizelos  in Athens about a plan that has
already been criticized by inspectors from the European
Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the  International
Monetary Fund  -- the so-called troika -- as not going far
enough.  “The troika must stop attacking Greek society,” said
Kouvelis, whose party is one of the three in Samaras’s
coalition. “The troika must understand there are limits.”  The standoff leaves Samaras heading to a meeting in  Rome 
tomorrow with his Italian, Spanish and Irish counterparts
without any final political commitment on the package he has
said is necessary to restore Greece’s credibility and keep the
country in the euro.  Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras told reporters he was
hopeful of an agreement “soon” and that talks were difficult.
He’s due to meet with the troika again today, in a bid to
identify the 2.5 billion euros in savings that have yet to be
agreed with the international lenders.  Kouvelis said there was no final agreement on any measures.
A new meeting of the coalition party leaders will be held next
week, he said.  Gains Erased  The Athens stock exchange erased gains of as much as 3.8
percent after Kouvelis’s statement, with the benchmark general
index adding 0.9 percent to 759.12 at 4:45 p.m.  With the New Democracy party holding 128 of the Greek
Parliament’s 300 seats, Samaras relies on Pasok’s 33 seats and
Democratic Left’s 17 to secure parliamentary approval of any
pledge made to international lenders.  Opposition to the cuts to disability benefits, wages and
pensions is escalating in  Greece  that’s in a fifth year of
recession and where almost a quarter of the workforce is
unemployed. All public transit workers walked off the job today,
affecting subway, bus and train services.  Police and fire officers rallied outside the premier’s
residence during the meeting to oppose backtracking by Samaras
on pledges to save their wages from cuts. Greece’s two biggest
unions plan to hold a 24-hour general strike on Sept. 26.  Recapitalize Banks  Agreement on the package from Greek political leaders and
the troika is imperative to allow the release of a 31 billion-
euro payment that will mainly go to recapitalize the nation’s
 banks  and boost liquidity in a cash-starved economy.  Samaras is facing opposition from Venizelos and Kouvelis on
across-the-board cuts to pensions and wages, demands to fire
civil servants, further changes to labor laws and a possible
increase in the  retirement age  to 67.  Venizelos told reporters after the meeting that 8 billion
euros of measures agreed so far with the troika related to
wages, pensions and benefits. That, he said, is “excessive”
and would have to be reduced.  He called for a “total” package to be presented to
parliament including a condition that underpins the formation of
the coalition government: that austerity measures be spread over
four years rather than two.  Lenders to Greece held back funds pledged under two rescue
packages totaling 240 billion euros in the wake of elections in
May and June, which derailed reforms, halted state-asset sales
and stoked concerns about the nation’s future in the 17-nation
euro.  European leaders have told Samaras the country must show it
is implementing commitments made earlier this year to secure a
second rescue package before there can be any discussion on
easing the terms of the program.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Chrepa in  Athens  at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  