-- Sands to Add $2.5 Billion Macau Resort in Biggest Casino Hub
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-09-20T08:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/sands-to-spend-2-5-billion-to-build-new-casino-on-macau-s-cotai.html
Billionaire  Sheldon Adelson ’s
casino operator  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  plans to invest at least $2.5
billion to build its fifth resort in Macau, where gambling
revenue is forecast to rise to $100 billion by 2020.  The company will fund the casino complex, to be called The
Parisian, with $1.5 billion in bank loans and $900 million to $1
billion in cash, Sands Chief Operating Officer Michael Leven
said at a press briefing in the territory today. The resort will
include family-oriented facilities to lure middle-class gamblers
from  China , the company said in July.  The Parisian will have a replica of the Eiffel Tower and
will boost the company’s presence on Cotai, a strip of reclaimed
land where rivals including  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880)  and  MGM China
Holdings Ltd. (2282)  await land grants or government approvals to
build. A new rail line linking Macau to Guangzhou and relaxation
of visa requirements will help drive up revenue, especially for
resorts that target middle-class gamblers instead of the high-
rollers, where demand growth has decelerated, analysts at
Citigroup Inc. said.  “Growth within the mass-market segment, particularly on
Cotai, has remained exceptionally strong,” Citigroup analysts
led by Anil Daswani wrote in a Sept. 19 note to clients. “We
continue to favor the mass-focused Cotai operators.”  Cotai Central  The Las Vegas-based casino operator plans to begin
construction of the project in the world’s largest gambling hub
in 60 days and the resort will have 3,000 hotel rooms, Adelson
said at a briefing in Macau today. Adelson, whose 70 percent
stake in  Sands China  is worth about HK$162 billion ($21
billion), opened the first phase of his Cotai Central resort in
April.  Sands China Ltd. (1928) , the company’s Hong-Kong listed Macau
operator, was granted a three-year extension in July on the
permit to build its new property in the city after Sands Macau,
The Venetian Macau, The Four Seasons Hotel Macau and Sands Cotai
Central. The company will pay a penalty of 900,000 patacas
($112,700) for the delay in developing the so-called Parcel 3
plot, where it will build the newest resort.  CLSA Ltd. forecast gambling revenue in Macau will jump to
$100 billion by 2020.  Adelson said today Sands hopes to build casinos in Korea,
Japan and Vietnam as well as Taipei or Kaohsiung in Taiwan
should governments in those countries grant permits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  