-- MSC Sets Record for Biggest Ship in U.S. as Rates Climb: Freight
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-20T05:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/msc-sets-record-for-biggest-ship-in-u-s-as-rates-climb-freight.html
Mediterranean Shipping Co., the
world’s second-biggest container line, has deployed the largest
vessel on a U.S. route in response to swelling demand for goods
from  Asia .  The MSC Beatrice, a 13,800-box ship, is due to arrive at
Long Beach from  China  on Sept. 26, based on the company’s
 website . The ship, previously on an Asia- Europe  service,
replaced an 11,660-container vessel, according to Alphaliner, a
shipping-data provider.  Ships transporting containers between the U.S. and Asia are
operating at about 95 percent capacity compared with about 80
percent for vessels sailing to Europe from Asia, according to
Credit Suisse AG. That’s helped push up rates for U.S.-bound
ships while the cost of carrying cargo to Europe has plunged.  “MSC seems to be on an aggressive drive to increase
business where things are looking a whole lot better,” said Um Kyung A, an analyst at Shinyoung Securities Co. in  Seoul . On
Asia-Europe routes, lines “know that unless they cut capacity,
they won’t get any rate increases,” she said.  An official at closely held MSC declined to comment on the
reason for the Beatrice’s new route when called by  Bloomberg
News  yesterday. The ship will be used alongside five vessels
able to hold from 9,600 to 13,000 boxes on the Long Beach route.
Vessels with capacity above 10,000-boxes are generally reserved
for Asia-Europe lanes as U.S. ports lack facilities to handle
them.  Spot Rates  Geneva-based MSC’s switch comes after Asia-Europe container
volumes plunged 13 percent in July, according to Kuehne & Nagel
International AG, the world’s largest organizer of sea-freight
shipments.  Spot rates  to haul 20-foot containers on the trade lane
have also fallen 37 percent from this year’s peak in May to
$1,218 last week, according to the  Shanghai  Shipping Exchange.
That’s the lowest since the first week of February, when
operators began an industrywide push to raise rates. Lines won’t
be able to cover costs if rates fall below $1,200, according to
Jefferies Group Inc.  Rates may average $1,200 in the fourth quarter, down from
an estimated $1,600 in the current quarter, Macquarie Group Ltd.
analysts including Bonnie Chan and Corinne Jian said in an Aug.
30 note. The bank expects full-year trade on the route to fall 3
percent compared with an earlier forecast for a 1 percent rise.  ‘Weak’ Europe  “Demand from Europe is weak,” said Lawrence Li, an
analyst at UOB Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. in Shanghai. “Peak-season
demand is totally below expectations.”  The peak season generally runs from about July through
October, as retailers stock up for the back-to-school and
Christmas shopping seasons.  “Weak demand in Europe could not stabilize the ocean
freight rates,”  Evergreen Group , Asia’s second-biggest
container line, said in an e-mailed reply to Bloomberg News
questions. “Trans-Pacific rates have a better outlook.  Macquarie expects a 6 percent jump in full-year trans-
Pacific container volumes helped by a recovery in the housing
market and better auto sales. Containerized imports by U.S.
retailers may jump 8.5 percent this month from last year and by
12 percent next month, according to the Washington-based
 National Retail Federation .  U.S. Housing  Container rates have risen 12 percent since the first week
of May to $2,711 per 40-foot box last week for shipments to the
U.S. West Coast from Asia, according to the Shanghai
Containerized Freight Index. Lines may have won about 80 percent
of targeted rate increases last week, according to Credit Suisse
analyst Timothy Ross.  “While Europe’s problems are getting worse, the  U.S.
economy  is showing positive signs of improvement,” Shinyoung’s
Um said. “The positive thing for the container business is the
recovery we’re seeing in U.S. housing market.”  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
builder sentiment index, a measure of confidence among U.S.
homebuilders, climbed to 40 this month, the highest since June
2006, according to figures from the Washington-based group
released on Sept. 18.  While the housing market is showing signs of recovery, the
unexpected slowdown in industrial output and retail sales have
prompted Norfolk Southern Corp., the second-biggest eastern U.S.
railroad, to forecast a third-quarter profit that is lower than
analysts’ estimates. The revision follows FedEx Corp. lowering
its full-year profit outlook.  Midwest Drought  U.S. railroad profits have been crimped as a drought in the
Midwest scorched crops and utilities began using cheaper natural
gas for power generation rather than coal carried by rail.
Companies such as CSX Corp. and  Warren Buffett ’s Burlington
Northern Santa Fe are bracing for limited increases in pre-
holiday shipments because of weak consumer sentiment.  Rail volumes traditionally start to peak in the last two
weeks of August as shipments of consumer products bound for
store shelves converge with the U.S. harvest and coal for
utilities’ winter stockpiles.  Industrial production in U.S. factories, mines and
utilities dropped 1.2 percent in August, the most since March
2009. Retail sales, excluding autos and gasoline, rose 0.1
percent in August, less than the forecast, after a 0.8 percent
gain in July.  $800 Levy  Still, container lines are gearing up for possible rate
increases if dock workers go on strike at ports on the East and
Gulf coasts. The International Longshoremen’s Association has
said it could vote on a strike from Oct. 1 if negotiations fail
to produce a new labor contract. The dispute could affect ports
including  New York ,  Boston  and Houston.  MSC,  China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919) , China Shipping Container
Lines and  Hanjin Shipping Co. (117930)  are all planning a levy of $800
per box if the strike goes ahead.  Orient Overseas International
Ltd. (316)  plans a $600 charge.  The Beatrice is one of 26 ships that can carry 13,800
containers operated by MSC.  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , the world’s
largest container-ship operator, has eight vessels able to hold
as many as 15,500 containers. The Copenhagen-based company has
ordered 18,000-box capacity ships that are due to enter service
next year.  On Asia-Europe routes, shipping lines plan to cancel 22
sailings during the first two weeks of October when factories in
China will be shut for a week-long holiday, according to
 Alphaliner . That will cut as much as 27 percent of the weekly
services, it said. The reduction is bigger than usual for the
annual holiday, according to  Johnson Leung , head of transport at
Jefferies in  Hong Kong .  The G6 Alliance, whose members include Neptune Orient’s APL
Ltd. and Orient Overseas, will also halt one of six weekly Asia-
Europe services next month. The CKYH alliance, which includes
China Cosco and Hanjin Shipping, will also cut one of its five
Asia-Europe services.  “It’s showing the environment is more challenging,” Leung
said. “It also shows the industry is being proactive. They
don’t want another year of losses.”  --Kyunghee Park and Alexandra Ho with assistance from Yu-huay Sun in Taipei,  Alex Webb  in  Frankfurt  and Dylan Griffiths in
Geneva. Editors: Neil Denslow, Frank Longid  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  