-- Self-Loathing Lawmakers Running Against U.S. Congress
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-09-20T04:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/self-loathing-lawmakers-running-against-u-s-congress.html
Television ads promoting  Ohio 
Republican  Bill Johnson ’s candidacy for the U.S. House refer to
his Democratic opponent as “Congressman” Charlie Wilson. It
isn’t a compliment.  “I’m running” in the Nov. 6 election because “people
like Barack Obama and Congressman Charlie Wilson spend too much
and tax too much,” a casually dressed Johnson says in a spot
airing in eastern Ohio. A narrator says Johnson is “fighting
for change,” encouraging viewers to “join the fight.”  Here’s the catch: Wilson isn’t the incumbent, Johnson is.
Johnson unseated Wilson in 2010, when Republicans won a House
majority, and is running for re-election this year. Still,
Johnson’s ads portray him as the outsider and Wilson as the
insider. Their rematch may be among the nation’s most
competitive House races.  Johnson’s ads underscore how some U.S. lawmakers are
seeking re-election by campaigning against Congress, which had a
13 percent approval rating in a Gallup survey taken Sept. 6-9 --
the worst showing for Congress this late in an election year and
near the all-time low of 10 percent in February and August. Six
percent of respondents to a Gallup survey in June said they had
“a great deal” of confidence in Congress, a lower rating than
for banks and health-maintenance organizations.  “When the institution has low levels of public approval,
running against the institution works to some degree,”  Bruce Oppenheimer , a political scientist at  Vanderbilt University  in
Nashville,  Tennessee , said in an interview.  ‘Fix’ Washington  Many lawmakers seeking re-election are eschewing words such
as “re-elect” that call attention to their incumbent status,
according to a Bloomberg review of dozens of campaign ads
compiled by New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, a company that
tracks advertising. In the TV spots, the lawmakers dress in
casual clothing rather than suits, seeking to connect with
voters frustrated with Washington amid a struggling economy.  Many members promise in the campaign ads reviewed by
Bloomberg to “fix” Washington or to “fight” for their
constituents -- language more befitting of political outsiders
than incumbents.  Attacking Congress “is one way of trying to say that ‘I’m
in touch with what you want and the institution isn’t in touch
with what you want,’” Oppenheimer said.  “You can attract maybe some people who are not otherwise
active participants by appealing to the fact that you’re not
part of the inside group,” he said.  Seniority Downplayed  J.R. Starrett, a spokesman for Wilson’s campaign, said that
Johnson’s ads show he is “ashamed of the work that he’s done in
 Washington .” Johnson’s campaign didn’t respond to a request for
comment.  Even some longtime legislators are downplaying their
seniority. An ad for Iowa Republican Representative Tom Latham
refers to his Democratic opponent, Representative Leonard Boswell, as a “longtime congressman,” even though Latham was
elected to Congress in 1994, two years before Boswell. They are
running against each other after their districts were redrawn.  An ad for Representative Charles W. Boustany, a Louisiana
Republican and a former heart surgeon, contrasts “Doctor”
Boustany with “politician” Jeff Landry, another Republican
Representative seeking the same seat. Boustany was first elected
in 2004 and serves on the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee.
Landry, a member of the anti-tax  Tea Party  Caucus, won his seat
in 2010, by beating a former state house speaker.  ‘Disingenuous Way’  Campaigning against Congress while serving there is “a
rather disingenuous way, whether you’re a Republican or a
Democrat, to be talking about an elected official and the role
of government,” Patrick Griffin, a government professor at
American University in Washington, said in an interview.  Republican members of Congress may be distancing themselves
from Congress more so than Democrats in their re-election bids.
That’s partly because they control more House seats, and more
voters blame Republicans for legislative logjams in a
politically divided government.  Forty-four percent of Americans say Republicans in Congress
are more responsible for gridlock, compared to 29 percent who
blame President  Barack Obama  and Democrats, according to a  New
York  Times/CBS News poll conducted Sept. 8-12.  Democratic campaign strategists are seeking to link  House
Republicans  to Representative  Paul Ryan , the Republican vice
presidential nominee and 14-year House veteran whose proposals
to overhaul government programs including Medicare drew almost
unanimous support from his party.  Tea Party  “Republicans wish they didn’t own a Tea Party Republican
Congress that’s met with record disapproval,” Jesse Ferguson, a
spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee,
said in an interview. “Voters are holding them accountable for
an agenda that puts millionaires ahead of the middle class.”  Republican ads link incumbent Democrats to the Democratic-
run Congress of 2009-10, attacking Obama administration
initiatives including the health-care overhaul that became law
and a cap-and-trade system to limit  carbon emissions  that
didn’t. In Ohio, Johnson’s ads link Wilson to Congress and to
Representative  Nancy Pelosi , the California Democrat who was
House speaker and is now the minority leader.  Fewer House Democrats are in danger this year because so
many were defeated in 2010 when Republicans unseated 52
Democrats en route to their biggest House gains in 72 years.
Democrats need a net gain of 25 seats to regain control, which
analysts including Oppenheimer and the Cook Political Report say
is unlikely.  Democratic incumbents hoping to capitalize on anti-
Washington sentiment include Nick Joe Rahall, a West Virginia
Democrat who has served in the House for more than 35 years. A
commercial for his campaign shows an image of the U.S. Capitol
as the ad attacks Republican opponent Rick Snuffer, a state
lawmaker, for accepting campaign donations from “Washington
politicians” who want to revamp Medicare.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jeanne
Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  