-- Shell Drawn by Auction for $5 Trillion of Oil
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d ,   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-09-20T20:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/shell-drawn-by-auction-for-5-trillion-of-oil.html
Brazil’s first  auction  of oil
licenses since 2008 is expected to lure companies from  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to startup  Niko Resources Ltd. (NKO)  as producers seek
to tap fields holding a third of the world’s new discoveries.  President  Dilma Rousseff  this week approved the plan to
auction oil exploration areas as soon as May, including deep-
water fields where  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  made the world’s
largest oil finds in more than a decade. Round 11, as the
auction is being called, will include 174 blocks on shore and
off Brazil’s northeastern coast.  Brazil has repeatedly postponed the sale of exploration
areas, leaving  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , Shell and other producers shut
out of the offshore pre-salt area that holds at least $5
trillion of oil. The delays prompted producers to look elsewhere
for oil discoveries. Total SA accelerated exploration off the
coast of West  Africa , and billionaire  Eike Batista ’s OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA is in  Colombia .  The bidding round is “important not just to help fill the
void of the last four years but also to develop new fields,”
said Miguel Gradin, a partner at Rio de Janeiro-based energy
startup Graal Energia and former chief executive officer of
Odebrecht Oil & Gas. “It will attract new international players
and also help Petrobras continue with its program.”  Struggling Petrobras  Brazil hasn’t auctioned any offshore permits since before
announcing the potential of the pre-salt zone in 2007 and hasn’t
sold any blocks since 2008, when it offered tracts of land.
Meanwhile Petrobras, the state-run oil producer that pumps more
than 90 percent of the country’s crude, is struggling to develop
its deposits. Petrobras’s  output  grew 1.5 percent in 2011, the
slowest pace in four years.  One third of the oil found in the world over the past five
years is located below Brazilian waters,  Fitch Ratings  said in a
report on Sept. 12.  “Shell will look with great interest at the areas that
will be auctioned,” Andre Araujo, chief executive officer of
Shell Brazil, said in an e-mailed statement. “I hope that the
auctioning of the 11th round marks the return of regular bid
rounds.”  “We have been expecting this for several months,” Angel
Gonzalez, chief operating officer at Repsol SA’s Brazil unit,
said yesterday at an oil conference in Rio, adding that the
venture with China Petrochemical Corp., or Sinopec, is “ready”
to participate in the auction.  Oil companies  will probably spend about $1 billion for the
rights to explore the 174 blocks, Joao Carlos de Luca, the head
of the  Instituto Brasileiro de Petroleo , an industry group.  Head-Start  Niko Resources, a Canadian company that explores for oil
and gas in seven countries, is getting a head-start identifying
the best prospects up for grabs in the auction areas, Rodrigo
Senne dos Santos, Niko’s manager for Brazil, said in an
interview.  Calgary-based Niko hired a vessel from SapuraCrest
Petroleum Bhd. to conduct geologic studies and identify natural
oil seeps off the coast of northeastern Brazil starting in
November, he said.  Niko is negotiating with at least five other oil companies
to split the costs of the program to collect data on 2,000
square kilometers a day. In August, Petrobras and  BP Plc (BP/) 
discovered oil 76 kilometers (47 miles) off the coast in the
Ceara Basin near where some of the blocks will be auctioned,
underscoring the region’s potential, Santos said.  Lower Targets  While a legislative change in 2007 put Petrobras in charge
of all new contracts in the so-called pre-salt area off Brazil,
the company hasn’t been able to extract oil fast enough to meet
 targets . Petrobras cut its long-term production forecast by 11
percent to 5.7 million barrels a day in 2020. Output will remain
within 2 percent of 2011 levels until 2014, it said on June 14.  Petrobras  rose  1.2 percent to close at 22.93 reais in  Sao
Paulo  today, the biggest increase since Sept. 14.  In addition to the 11th Round, the government also aims to
hold an auction of pre-salt fields in deep waters, where
 Brazil ’s largest oil deposits are located, in November 2013,
Energy Minister Edison Lobao said in Brasilia on Sept. 18.
Congress has to approve a new model for distributing oil
royalties before that bidding round is held, Lobao said.  “Resolving the contentious issue of royalty distribution
is still the key obstacle for policy makers,” T.J. Conway, a
research and advisory manager at New York-based Energy
Intelligence Group, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
Even though fields in the northeast have shown “promising”
results, “the Brazilian pre-salt has yielded exceptionally high
success rates, and exploration success may prove harder to come
by in these frontier offerings.”  Dry Holes  While Petrobras and its partners have recently found oil
near areas that will be auctioned, the region is also home to
dry holes. Exxon Mobil explored about 200 kilometers off the
coast of the Amazon area in 2001 and 2002 without finding any
oil, spokesman Patrick McGinn said in an e-mailed response to
questions. Exxon is interested in pursuing other opportunities
in Brazil, McGinn said.  The Round 11 blocks include areas on shore and off Brazil’s
northeastern coast where the geology is similar to recent
discoveries in  Suriname ,  French Guiana  and the west coast of
Africa, Eliane Petersohn, the superintendent in charge of
defining new exploration blocks at the country’s oil regulator,
said in a Sept. 18 interview.  The potential to find oil in the region is “enormous,”
Marco Antonio Almeida, the head of oil and natural gas at the
Energy Ministry, told reporters in  Rio de Janeiro  on Sept. 17.  “Everybody who works in exploration and production is
excited about this round,” Danilo Oliveira, production director
at  QGEP Participacoes SA (QGEP3) , said in an interview in Rio de
Janeiro. “There are even greater expectations for the pre-salt
round.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  