-- SNB’s Danthine Welcomes Franc’s Recent Weakening Versus Euro
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-09-20T13:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/snb-s-danthine-welcomes-franc-s-recent-weakening-versus-euro-1-.html
Swiss central bank Vice Chairman
Jean-Pierre Danthine said he welcomes the franc’s recent
weakening versus the single currency.  Asked whether he’s happy with the depreciation of the franc
against the euro, Danthine told  Bloomberg News  today on the
sidelines of a conference in Lausanne,  Switzerland , “of
course.” He said that a further weakening will depend on
developments in the euro region after the  European Central Bank 
pledged to purchase  government bonds  along with the area’s
rescue fund to fight the fiscal crisis. Still, “markets need to
be convinced,” he said.  The franc strengthened against the euro for a fourth day
and traded at 1.2088 versus the single currency as of 3:21 p.m.
in Zurich. It declined to 1.2184 on Sept. 17, the weakest in
eight months.  The  Swiss National Bank  kept its franc ceiling at 1.20
versus the euro on Sept. 13 and pledged to defend that level
with the “utmost determination.” The Zurich-based central bank
introduced the measure in September 2011 after the Swiss
currency surged to near-parity with the euro.  “Despite a certain easing of the exchange-rate situation
over the past week, challenges of the strong franc haven’t yet
been diffused,” Danthine said in a speech at the conference.
“The expected depreciation of the franc hasn’t yet
materialized. Based on this, it’s clear that the SNB will
maintain its minimum exchange rate of 1.20 and will defend it
with the utmost determination.”  He also said that the Swiss economy will expand about 1
percent this year, and then “gradually gain momentum” in 2013.
The Zurich-based central bank last week lowered its 2012 growth
forecast from 1.5 percent, without providing an estimate for the
following year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  