-- Soccer Beats Baseball Thanks to Young Electronic Arts’ FIFA Fans
-- B y   R o g e r   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-09-20T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/soccer-beats-baseball-thanks-to-young-electronic-arts-fifa-fans.html
Shortly after the U.S. was chosen
to host the 1994  World Cup , former Republican Representative
 Jack Kemp  of  New York  felt compelled to address the matter on
the floor of Congress.  “I think it is important for all those young men out there
who someday hope to play real football that a distinction should
be made,” he declared. “Football is democratic capitalism,
whereas soccer is a European socialist sport.”  Perhaps it’s better that the late Kemp, a former
professional quarterback, didn’t see the recent  ESPN  study
finding that soccer is the nation’s second-favorite sport after
professional football among ages 18 to 24, surpassing
basketball, baseball and college football,  Bloomberg
Businessweek  reports in its Sept. 24 issue.  “Soccer has traditionally been seen as an adolescent rite
of passage in this country,” says social scientist Rich Luker,
the study’s author. “We are seeing a real changing of the
guard.”  Largely driving this transformation is one of the most
popular video-game franchises ever,  Electronics Arts Inc. (EA) ’s EA
Sports FIFA, the 20th edition of which will be released this
month.  “For the longest time, I believed video games and fandom
of sports were not connected,” says Luker. Electronic Arts’s
FIFA, he says, has done “more to advance the popularity of
soccer than I have seen with any other sport.”  Visual Marvel  Matt Bilbey, general manager of soccer at EA Sports, has
spent 18 years overseeing the development of the game into a $5
billion juggernaut. An average of 5 million games are played
online every day.  “Young Americans are now developing emotional connections
to teams like Real  Madrid , F.C. Barcelona, and  Manchester United (MANU) 
through our game,” says Bilbey. Two million fans downloaded the
 demo version  within three days of its release.  The new  “FIFA Soccer 13”  is a visual marvel. Executive
Producer David Rutter has worked meticulously to re-create the
physical realities of soccer, ensuring that the subtleties of
the dribble and 360-degree mobility are more lifelike than ever.  “You quickly realize there are deeper levels that you can
only master if you learn to think like a real soccer player,”
he says.  The virtual gameplay is an improvement on previous versions
that were used by EA Sports to predict the winners of the 2010
World Cup and last season’s  Major League Soccer  championship.  Young fans aren’t the franchise’s only devotees. Detroit
Lions star wide receiver  Calvin Johnson  was recently introduced
to the media as the cover star of Electronic Arts’s sister game,
 “NFL Madden 13.”  “I play rarely,” Johnson confessed to
reporters, referring to Madden. “I’m more of a FIFA soccer
guy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Bennett via Keenan Mayo in New York at   kmayo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Keenan Mayo in New York at 
 kmayo3@bloomberg.net  