-- Software Millionaire Kicks Off South Korea Presidential Campaign
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-09-20T01:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/software-millionaire-kicks-off-south-korea-presidential-campaign.html
Ahn Cheol Soo, founder of  South
Korea ’s biggest antivirus software maker, began campaigning
today as an independent candidate in the December presidential
race to succeed  Lee Myung Bak .  Ahn, 50, was running second in an opinion poll published
after his announcement yesterday that he would challenge ruling
party candidate Park Geun Hye and the main opposition’s Moon Jae
In to be elected to a single five-year term to govern Asia’s
fourth-biggest economy.  A trained medical doctor who went on to create software
company  Ahnlab Inc. (053800) , Ahn must confront questions about his lack
of governing experience to win voters dissatisfied with growing
income disparity and rising youth unemployment. His candidacy
may hinder opposition efforts to unseat the ruling party or
weaken Park’s chances if he forges an alliance with Moon.  “People are expressing their desire for political reform
through me,” Ahn said in his 15-minute speech yesterday. “By
running in this presidential election, I want to fulfill their
desires.”  Ahn will pay his respects at the national cemetery today
and attend a farewell party at his company headquarters in
Seongnam, south of  Seoul , a day after resigning from Ahnlab’s
board to participate in the Dec. 19 election, according to an e-
mailed statement from his spokesman Yu Min Yeong. In his
declaration speech, Ahn promised to donate his stake in the
company, worth more than $300 million, if he is elected.  Three-Way Race  The Sept. 18-19 poll by Seoul-based Realmeter and JTBC, a
cable-television affiliate of the Joongang Ilbo newspaper, put
support for Ahn at 26.5 percent, behind Park’s 35.7 percent and
ahead of Moon at 24.3 percent. Ahn’s ratings rose 1.8 percentage
points after he announced his presidential bid.  His support was at 48.3 percent, compared with 42.5 percent
for Park, assuming a one-on-one showdown. The survey of 1,500
people had a margin of error of plus or minus 2.5 percentage
points.  “Ahn and Moon will need to decide if they are going to
join forces to beat Park,” said Jeong Han Wool, director of the
Center for Public Opinion Research at East  Asia  Institute in
Seoul. “If they choose to each go at it alone, they might end
up splitting the votes, boosting Park’s chances of securing
victory.”  Ahnlab shares  rose  as much as 3.9 percent in early trading
and were up 0.1 percent at 125,000 won as of 10:23 a.m. in
Seoul. Ahn declared his candidacy after the market closed at 3
p.m.  Wharton MBA  He founded the company in 1995 and currently has a 29
percent stake in the business, worth 365 billion won ($324
million), according to his spokesman, Yu. The Wharton MBA
holder emerged as a possible candidate last October after the
independent he backed won the Seoul mayoral election. He has
never run for or served in public office and has never joined a
political party.  “I have no political experience but I don’t know that
having a lot of it is necessarily a good thing,” Ahn said.
“While I lack direct political experience, my diverse range of
experiences in  information technology , medicine, management and
education, will be a plus, never a minus.”  A critic of chaebols, the family-run conglomerates like the
Samsung and  Hyundai groups , Ahn called for a “new economic
model” and innovation that merges welfare and growth. In his
latest book, Ahn advocates banning conglomerates’ cross-
shareholding and limiting their investments in subsidiaries.  The ruling New Frontier Party last month nominated Park,
the eldest daughter of former dictator Park Chung Hee who is
attempting to become South Korea’s first female president. Moon,
a human-rights lawyer and one-time chief of staff to former
President Roh Moo Hyun, won his Democratic United Party’s
nomination on Sept. 16. Moon was jailed in 1975 for joining
street protests against the rule of Park’s father.  While Moon said the opposition must form a coalition with
Ahn to win the presidential race, Ahn said today it was
“inappropriate” to discuss such a move at this point. He did
not comment on whether he will form a new political party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  