-- Sony Says Holiday Game Sales to Be Close to Last Year’s Levels
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-09-20T05:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/sony-says-holiday-game-sales-to-be-close-to-last-year-s-levels.html
Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Japan ’s biggest
exporter of consumer electronics, said it expects end-of year
holiday sales at its games unit to be similar to last year’s
levels.  “It’ll be somewhere close to the range of last year,”
Andrew House, head of the company’s games business, said in an
interview today in Chiba prefecture, near Tokyo.  Demand for Sony’s PlayStation 3 game console is “looking
strong and looking on track,” House said, a day after the
Tokyo-based company unveiled a smaller, lighter version of the
gaming machine. The new consoles, featuring more storage
capacity than current models, will go on sale Sept. 25 in  North
America , starting from $249, Sony said yesterday.  The games unit is among the focus areas listed this year by
 Kazuo Hirai , 51, who became Sony’s chief executive officer in
April and started reforming its unprofitable television
operation and cutting 10,000 jobs. The company is trying to
return to profit following four straight annual  losses  after the
yen gained, the global economy slowed and consumers switched to
Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. devices.  Sony sold more than 6.5 million game consoles, including
home and portable models, during the 2011 end-of-year holiday
season, it said in January.  Online sales of games are growing, House said today. Sony
will also start the “PlayStation Mobile” service, allowing
users to download games on their smartphones and tablet
computers, on Oct. 3, the company said yesterday.  “We are seeing a significant growth in the digital side of
our business,” House said in the interview.  Wii U  Sony is introducing the smaller PS3 console as it tries to
win back customers flocking to games played on mobile devices
and personal computers. The new PS3 will debut in  Europe  on Sept.
28 and in Japan on Oct. 4, the company said yesterday.  Nintendo Co., the world’s largest maker of video-game
machines, will release its new Wii U home-gaming console in the
U.S. on Nov. 18, priced from $300.  Sony is also preparing to offer new cloud-based gaming
services, House said at a press conference in Tokyo yesterday,
without elaborating.  The company, which bought out a mobile-phone venture from
Ericsson AB for 1.05 billion euros ($1.4 billion) in February,
plans to draw on its skills in games to develop new smartphones
and tablet computers, Kunimasa Suzuki, an executive vice
president overseeing mobile products, said earlier this month.  Last month, the Japanese electronics maker cut its full-
year  sales target  for handheld game players, including the PS
Vita, to 12 million units from 16 million predicted three months
earlier. The company also lowered its target for TVs, compact
cameras and PCs.  The  operating loss , or sales minus the cost of goods sold
and administrative expenses, at Sony’s game unit was 3.5 billion
yen in the three months ended June 30, compared with an income
of 4.1 billion yen a year earlier, the company said in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  