-- South Africa Keeps Lending Rate at 5% on Price Pressures
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-09-20T14:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/south-africa-keeps-lending-rate-at-5-on-price-pressures.html
South Africa’s central bank kept
its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged as rising food and fuel
costs limit the room policy makers have to stimulate growth in
Africa’s biggest economy.  The Monetary Policy Committee left the repurchase rate at 5
percent, Governor Gill Marcus told reporters today in  Pretoria ,
the capital. That was in line with the forecasts of 19 of 20
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Inflation threats are rising with record food prices,
prompting central banks from  Russia  to  Canada  to warn of tighter
monetary policy. After reducing borrowing costs for the first
time in 20 months in July to support the economy, the Reserve
Bank is focusing on price stability to keep  inflation  inside the
3 percent to 6 percent target range.  “A further reduction in the repo rate is not appropriate
at this stage,” Marcus said. “This accommodative stance is
assessed to be consistent with the bank’s  price stability 
mandate and conducive to encouraging growth and domestic
investment.”  Inflation quickened for the first time in four months in
August to 5 percent from 4.9 percent in the previous month, the
statistics office said yesterday. The bank raised its forecast
for inflation to 5.2 percent for 2013, from 5.1 percent at its
July 19 meeting.  Rate Swaps  Investors have been reducing bets the Reserve Bank will cut
borrowing costs again this year, with the yield on the  two-year
interest-rate swap , used by traders to lock in borrowing costs
over that period, increasing 10 basis points since July 20.  “There are lots of worries about the rand, oil and food
prices,” Johann Els, an economist at Old Mutual Investment
Group,  South Africa ’s largest private money-manager, said in a
phone interview from  Cape Town . “They are still very worried
about the impact the global economy will have on South Africa.”  Exports slumped in the second quarter as global demand
waned, widening the  current account  deficit to the most in
almost four years and adding to pressure on inflation. The
shortfall on the current account, the broadest measure of trade
in goods and services, reached 6.4 percent of gross domestic
product in the period.  “The  exchange rate  poses a potential risk to the inflation
outlook, particularly in the event of an unsustainable widening
in the current account of the balance of payments,” Marcus
said.  Weaker Rand  The rand has dropped 7.5 percent against the dollar in the
past year, the second worst-performer of 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The rand was little changed at 8.3573 per
dollar as of 4:03 p.m. in Johannesburg from 8.3559 before Marcus
began speaking.  The  Reserve Bank  cut its forecast for economic growth this
year to 2.6 percent from 2.7 percent and predicted expansion of
3.4 percent in 2013, Marcus said.  The steps taken by policy makers in the past week in the
U.S. and  Japan  to buy bonds and boost liquidity have alleviated
some of the concerns regarding the global economic outlook,
though there are still risks of slower growth, Marcus said.  “There wasn’t enough deterioration between July and
September” in the growth outlook for the bank to cut, Gina Schoeman, an economist at Absa Group Ltd. in  London , said in a
telephone interview. “They are happy to let the advanced
economies do the heavy lifting.”  Higher food prices, such as wheat and white corn, will add
to pressure on inflation, Marcus said. Corn reached a record
$8.49 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade on Aug. 10 and
white corn, a staple in South  Africa , has gained 19 percent
since June 1 on the South African Futures Exchange.  “These increases are expected to filter through to
domestic consumer prices in coming months,” Marcus said. “Some
upside pressure is still expected from food and petrol price
increases.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  