-- India Wins on Feed Sales as Drought Destroys U.S. Crops
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-09-21T09:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/soybean-meal-exports-from-india-to-climb-on-record-crop.html
Soybean-meal exports from  India ,
Asia’s largest shipper of the  animal feed , may advance 5 percent
next year as the oilseed harvest is poised to climb to a record
for a second year, according to Adani Wilmar Ltd.  Shipments may exceed 4 million metric tons in the year
starting Oct. 1, compared with 3.8 million tons this year, said
 Atul Chaturvedi , chief executive officer at the Ahmedabad-based
exporter. The soybean crop in 2012-2013 will be more than the
11.5 million tons estimated by the  Soybean Processors
Association of India , he said, without giving his own estimate.  Soybean-meal prices have surged about 55 percent this year
and reached a record on concern that the worst U.S. drought in
at least 50 years will shrink soybean and corn supplies from the
world’s largest exporter. U.S. processors including  Bunge Ltd. (BG) 
and Archer Daniels Midland Co. reduced oilseed crushing 9.2
percent last month from July after the rally in prices eroded
demand for livestock feed made from soybeans, boosting demand
for shipments from India.  “All indications are that when you have a crop on your
head, prices normally soften,” said Chaturvedi, whose company
is a joint venture with  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , the largest
importer of soybeans into  China . “Prices have to come down to
make India more competitive in the global market.”  Soybean meal futures have fallen about 10 percent since
reaching an all-time high of $541.80 per 2,000 pounds on the
Chicago Board of Trade on Sept. 4. The December-delivery
contract was at $486.70 at 3 p.m. in Mumbai today. Soybeans rose
to a record $17.89 a bushel also on Sept. 4 as U.S. farmers will
harvest the smallest crop in nine years after June and July were
the hottest since 1936.  Buyers’ Appetite  “Because of the spurt in prices most buyers are hand-to-
mouth, which means they all have an appetite to buy when prices
stabilize,” said Davish Jain, group managing director at
Prestige Foods Ltd. “If India produces more soybeans, it’s a
golden opportunity for the country as the North American crop is
affected by drought.”  India competes with the U.S.,  Argentina  and  Brazil  to
supply animal feed to China,  Vietnam ,  Japan  and  South Korea . The
country usually exports more than 70 percent of its soybean-meal
output. Traders have contracted to sell as much as 300,000 tons
at prices ranging from $620 a ton to $640 a ton free-on-board to
buyers in South East Asia and  Africa  for shipment in November
and December, Rajesh Agrawal, spokesman for the Soybean
Processors Association, said on Sept. 18.  Monsoon Revival  Monsoon oilseed production in India this year may be little
changed from a year earlier as an increase in soybean output
will be offset by a lower peanut crop, Adani’s Chaturvedi said.
The country harvested 28.6 million tons of oilseeds 2011-2012,
according to the Central Organization of Oil Industry and Trade.  Farmers planted soybeans in 10.7 million hectares (26.4
million acres) as of Sept. 7, compared with 10.3 million
hectares a year earlier, according to the farm ministry. The
area under all the oilseeds fell to 17 million hectares from
17.5 million a year earlier, it said.  A revival in monsoon this month has brightened prospects
for a bigger rapeseed crop this year, Chaturvedi said. Rapeseed,
the main oilseed sown in the winter season, totaled 6.03 million
tons in 2011-2012, according to central organization’s data.  The monsoon, which accounts for more than 70 percent of
annual rainfall, has been 5 percent below a 50-year average as
of yesterday, according to the  India Meteorological Department .
The deficit was 19 percent at the end of July.  Superb Price  “Farmers will plant more because the prices have been
superb and we have got very good rains,” Chaturvedi said.  Rapeseed futures on the National Commodity & Derivatives
Exchange Ltd. in Mumbai have rallied 40 percent in the past
year, reaching a record 4,564 rupees ($84) per 100 kilograms on
Aug. 4. The October-delivery contract was at 4,145 rupees today.  Vegetable-oil  imports  by India may increase to as much as a
record 9.7 million tons this year from 8.7 million tons this
year, Chaturvedi said. Imports climbed 19 percent to 8.16
million tons between November and August, according to the
Solvent Extractors’ Association of India.  India meets more than half its edible oil requirement
through imports. It buys palm from Indonesia and  Malaysia , and
 soybean oil  from Brazil and Argentina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  