-- Strike Shuts India Shops as Opposition Protest Retail Plan
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-09-20T15:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/strike-shuts-india-shops-as-opposition-protest-singh-retail-plan.html
Shops and businesses across  India 
remained closed as traders supported a daylong strike called by
the opposition to demand the government scrap decisions to raise
diesel prices and allow foreign retail chains to set up stores.  The nationwide protest adds to pressure on Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  two days after his largest political ally said it
will quit the government, leaving the ruling coalition short of
a parliamentary majority. While at least one member of Singh’s
alliance of about a dozen parties backed the stoppage, other
regional leaders are not, limiting its impact.  “The discontent among the people against the government is
very high,” said Nilotpal Basu, a leader of the  Communist Party
of India  (Marxist), which is supporting the strike. “The
protest is widespread.”  The agitation is the latest test of Singh’s determination
to push through the biggest opening of  India’s economy  since
coming to power eight years ago as he seeks to combat a slowing
economy. Owners of family run stores, the backbone of an Indian
retail market which employs about 250 million people, fear they
will be forced out of business by the arrival of big overseas
companies.  Shopkeepers in states including Delhi, West Bengal, Tamil
Nadu,  Andhra Pradesh  and Maharashtra joined the strike today.
Protesters squatted on rail lines in  Uttar Pradesh  and Bihar,
while people blocked roads by burning tires in Punjab, footage
on the news channel NDTV 24x7 showed.  Cabinet Exit  In a surprise move last week, Singh’s cabinet allowed
overseas retailers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Carrefour SA (CA) 
to own as much as 51 percent in supermarket ventures. An earlier
attempt to allow foreign companies to open outlets ended in a
humiliating defeat for the government last year because of
opposition from rival parties and coalition allies led by Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress.  The government published the  rules  allowing foreign
investment in industries including multibrand retail, aviation,
broadcasting and power exchanges, making them effective
immediately, according to a statement today from the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry.  Banerjee, chief minister of West Bengal state, Sept. 18
announced her party was exiting the government and will pull its
ministers from Singh’s cabinet tomorrow unless the retail move
and a 14 percent increase in diesel prices are reversed.  A fierce opponent of communist groups like Basu’s, Banerjee
didn’t support the strike and state-run bus and rail services
operated normally in Kolkata, West Bengal’s capital.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram ruled out
backtracking on the burst of policy making -- which also
included allowing foreign airlines to own minority stakes in
local carriers -- arguing it’s needed to revive confidence in an
economy growing at near the slowest pace in three years.  Delhi Speeches  Singh’s main rival, the  Bharatiya Janata Party , cites job
losses as a central reason for its opposition to foreign
investment in retail, a proposal it first suggested when in
power.  In the southern state of  Tamil Nadu , labor unions
affiliated to the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Singh’s ally in the
province, supported the strike. In Hyderabad, the capital of
Andhra Pradesh state, opposition parties prevented buses from
running, while schools and shops were closed in many parts of
the city.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  