-- U.K. Seeks Rejection of EU Bid to Scale Back Bank Liquidity Rule
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-09-20T16:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/u-k-seeks-rejection-of-eu-bid-to-scale-back-bank-liquidity-rule.html
The U.K. urged lawmakers to block
European Commission proposals for applying a Basel bank
liquidity rule, saying they may hamper efforts to bolster the
banking system, according to a document obtained by  Bloomberg
News .  The commission’s compromise plan “significantly weakens”
the standard, according to the U.K document, which was sent to
members of the European Parliament. The U.K. recommends
“rejecting” the proposal.  The measure, known as a liquidity coverage ratio, or LCR,
would oblige banks to hold enough easy-to-sell assets to survive
a 30-day credit squeeze. The requirement was included by the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  in an overhaul of bank
rules that was agreed on following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  The commission this week submitted a revised text on how
the EU should apply the LCR in a bid to advance negotiations
with governments and legislators on a draft bank law to
implement the Basel rules in the bloc. The compromise plan would
scale back reporting on whether they meet the liquidity
requirement, according to a copy of the proposals.  The Basel committee has said that banks should report to
regulators on how well they measure up to the LCR even before
the standard becomes binding in 2015.  The U.K. warns that any scaling back of reporting
requirements risks “sending an unintended signal to the
markets” that legislators are so concerned by the liquidity
position of their banks that they don’t want it to be revealed,
according to the document.  Fine Tuning  The move would also “weaken the information” available to
regulators as they seek to fine tune the LCR, the U.K. said in
the document.  “Clearly we need to pay attention to a possible negative
impact on lending to the real economy and on the  interbank
market ,” commission spokesman Stefaan De Rynck said in an e-
mail yesterday on the plans.  “Important discussions are going on at the level of the
Basel Committee which will finalize its details on this in
2013.” The U.S. and  Japan  have delayed their implementation of
the ratio “because of this.”  A review of the LCR in the Basel committee is unlikely to
lead to major changes, according to the U.K. document.  Governments and the EU parliament must agree on the final
wording of the Basel-implementation law before it can take
effect in the 27-nation EU.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  