-- U.K. Bondholders Condone Stimulus Cameron Snubs for Growth
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-09-21T16:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/u-k-bondholders-condone-stimulus-cameron-snubs-to-revive-growth.html
U.K. bondholders say  David Cameron 
can relax his plan to cut Britain’s budget deficit, easing the
austerity measures that defined his first 2 1/2 years as prime
minister and helped gilts outperform U.S. and German peers.  Investors whose companies manage $5.2 trillion said they
may keep buying British debt even if Cameron pulls back from the
largest budget reduction since World War II, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. U.K. bonds returned 26 percent since he
took office in May 2010, beating a 14.8 percent gain from
Treasuries and bunds’ 14.5 percent advance, based on Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes.  As Britain struggles to emerge from a double-dip recession,
the Conservative-led coalition is bracing for a round of party
conferences starting tomorrow that may question its insistence
on eliminating the bulk of the deficit by 2017 with spending
cuts and tax increases. This year’s target is for a shortfall of
about 7.5 percent of gross domestic product. Investors’
willingness to tolerate a strategy change challenges Cameron’s
claim that any deviation will spark selling and drive up  yields .  “The key is to have a clear sense that there’s a credible
effort to put the U.K. fiscal situation back on an even keel,”
Adrian Grey, a  fund manager  at Insight Investment Ltd., who
helps oversee $295 billion, said in a phone interview. “Over
time, that has to involve retrenchment, but it doesn’t have to
be done by next week. If it’s one or two years more on the back
end, and there’s a clear indication of the reason for spending
more, that’s not a big problem.”  Strategy Shift  Grey was one of 16 investors, among the biggest owners of
gilts, who participated in the survey. Ten said a shift in
government strategy on the fiscal plan may not trigger a
decision to reduce holdings. Six of the respondents, who oversee
less than $1 trillion, said they’d sell on a change in plan.  The U.K. has recovered less than one third of the output
lost in the recession of 2008-2009.  Gross domestic product 
shrank 0.5 percent in the three months through June, the third
consecutive quarter of contraction in the country’s first
double-dip recession since the 1970s. U.S. GDP climbed at a 1.7
percent annual rate from April through June. The euro-area
economy shrank 0.2 percent from the first quarter, when it
stagnated.  Gilt Yields  Since Cameron’s government came to power on May 11, 2010,
the 10-year bond yield has fallen to 1.83 percent at today’s 5
p.m. close in  London , from 3.89 percent. It dropped to a record
1.407 percent on July 23. The U.K. sold gilts maturing in
September 2017 at an average yield of 0.802 percent yesterday,
the  second-lowest rate  at an auction of five-year notes since
Bloomberg started compiling the data in 1999. The  Bank of
England  is buying 375 billion pounds ($609 billion) of debt to
revive growth, adding support for gilts.  Demand for British assets also helped the pound appreciate
4 percent against nine developed-nation peers in the past year,
the best performer, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. Sterling appreciated as much as 0.6 percent to $1.6309
today, the strongest level since Aug. 31, 2011.  The prime minister has taken credit for the decline in
borrowing costs, saying his austerity plan shielded Britain from
the euro area’s debt crisis. While U.K. and Spanish yields  were
equal  when the coalition took office, Britain’s rate has dropped
because of the government’s efforts, Cameron wrote in the Mail
on Sunday newspaper Sept. 2. The coalition has cut the deficit
by a quarter already, and it’s sticking to that course, he said.  Change Course  The government earlier this year froze pensioners’ tax
allowances, adding to austerity measures since it took office
including shrinking the payroll and leaving public-sector pay
unchanged.  “The government was right to set out a multiyear plan to
deal with the deficit,” said Michael Amey, a portfolio manager
at Pacific Investment Management Co. in London. “Now that
growth has continued to disappoint, there is a good case for
higher spending in public-sector investment.”  Calls for Cameron to change course have mounted. The
 International Monetary Fund  said in July the government may need
to ease policy if growth doesn’t build momentum by early 2013.
While that “would likely entail the government reneging on its
net debt mandate,” there is “little evidence” this would
trigger major market turmoil, it said.  ‘Drastic Cuts’  Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said yesterday in a
television interview on Channel 4 it would be acceptable for the
government to miss its debt-reduction targets if it was caused
by a weaker-than-expected economy.  “Every government has to cut spending, but too many cuts
may slow the economy,” said Yoshiyuki Suzuki, head of fixed-
income in  Tokyo  at Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Co., which has
$70 billion. “The government should cut but it should be
moderate. Drastic cuts are not good.”  Britain’s deficit is projected by the Office for Budget
Responsibility to be 120 billion pounds this year. That’s down
from 125 billion pounds last year, while the goal is to reach 21
billion pounds, or 1.1 percent of GDP, by 2017.  Data today showed the U.K. posted its biggest August budget
deficit on record as the recession hit  tax revenue  and pushed up
spending on welfare. The  shortfall  excluding government support
for banks was 14.4 billion pounds, the  Office for National
Statistics  said in London.  Sales Trigger  A failure to control the shortfall risks landing Britain
with a spiraling debt burden. Altering policy may also
jeopardize the U.K.’s top credit rating. The grade has a
negative outlook at Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings,
and a stable outlook at  Standard & Poor’s .  “A change in stance could lead to an increase in risk
premia and a loss of confidence by markets,” said Dagmar Dvorak, a director of fixed-income and currencies at Baring
Asset Management in London, which has $50 billion. “I would
probably see it as a trigger to reduce my exposure.”  Some money managers say Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s budget plans are beside the point since the Bank of
England’s asset purchases may limit increases in yields. The
central bank will finish its plan to buy debt by November, and
minutes of this month’s policy decision to leave the plan
unchanged showed some officials said additional stimulus “was
more likely than not to be needed.”  Stimulus Measures  “If the government were to loosen the pace of fiscal
consolidation, that would ordinarily be met by an increase in
the supply of gilts,” Mitul Patel, a fund manager at Henderson
Global Investors Ltd. in London, which has $103 billion under
management, said in a phone interview. “However, if the BOE are
also buying significant quantities of  government bonds  at the
same time, that would probably limit the extent of the rise in
gilt yields.”  Others downplay the importance of government plans in
setting their strategy. “U.K. fiscal policy has little bearing
on gilt performance” and the global economic outlook is among
the biggest reasons to change position, said Michael Riddel, a
London-based fund manager at M&G Group Plc, which oversees about
$324 billion.  Some Conservatives are proposing steps to revive growth,
such as making it easier to fire staff. Business Secretary  Vince Cable , a Liberal Democrat member of the coalition, has rejected
such proposals, saying they’ll damage confidence. His party’s
annual conference starts tomorrow, and the Conservatives’ begins
Oct. 7. The opposition  Labour Party , which has called for tax
cuts and more spending on infrastructure, gathers on Sept. 30.  “We will still keep what we have if the government decides
to increase spending to promote growth,” said Robin Marshall, a
director of fixed-income at Smith & Williamson Investment
Management in London. “We will only sell if the shift in policy
produces results and leads to growth picking up at a decent
pace. I don’t think that’s likely to be the case.”  The following investors participated in the survey:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  