-- U.K. Retail Sales Fall as London Olympics Distracts Shoppers
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-09-20T10:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/u-k-retail-sales-fall-as-london-olympics-distracts-shoppers-1-.html
U.K. retail sales  fell in August as
the Olympics distracted shoppers and internet shopping plunged
the most in almost five years.  Sales including auto fuel declined 0.2 percent from July,
the  Office for National Statistics   said  today in London. The
median forecast of 22 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 0.3 percent decline. Non-store retailing, predominantly
online shopping, dropped 6.7 percent. The decline was offset by
a surge in sales of sporting goods and items such as bicycles.  The London  Olympic Games  began on July 27 and ran until
Aug. 12, adding to volatility in the consumer data. Household
spending has been undermined by the uncertain economic outlook,
and the  Bank of England  said yesterday consumers may remain
under pressure as energy prices increase.  “The Games failed to provide an overall boost to retail
spending,” said Samuel Tombs, an economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. in London. “With  consumer confidence  still very weak and
inflation set to outpace earnings growth for another six months
or so, we would not be surprised to see further falls in retail
sales in the coming months.”  The pound remained lower against the dollar after the data
were released. It traded at $1.6194 as of 10.55 a.m. in London,
down 0.2 percent from yesterday.  ‘Wiggo’ Boost  Sales in the “other stores” category, which includes
sporting goods and games, rose 1.5 percent in August from July
and surged 7.9 percent from a year earlier, the statistics
office said. That was helped by sales of football shirts and
bicycles. Bradley Wiggins, nicknamed ‘Wiggo,’ became the first
Briton to win the  Tour de France  competition this year before
winning a gold medal at the Olympics.  The ONS said feedback from stores “suggests that sales
were boosted by an increase in sales of football shirts with the
start of the new season and the European Championship but also
from increased sales as a result of the Olympics.”  In the quarter through August, retails sales including auto
fuel rose 0.6 percent from the previous three months, up 2.4
percent from the year-earlier period.  Food sales rose 0.2 percent in August from the previous
month. Clothing, textile and footwear sales increased 1.6
percent. Excluding fuel,  retail sales  fell 0.3 percent in August
from July and were up 3.1 percent from the same month a year
earlier, today’s report showed.  Inflation  Next Plc (NXT) , the U.K.’s second-largest clothing retailer, said
Sept. 13 that sales in August and early September were
“disappointing.” The Olympics was one of a number of elements
that may have contributed to the slowdown as shoppers turned
their attention to watching the games, Chief Financial Officer
David Keens said.  Today’s report also showed that the annual price deflator
stayed at 0.2 percent, which was the lowest since October 2009.
The food-price deflator rose to 2 percent from 1.9 percent.  Bank of England policy makers forecast that  inflation  --
which was at 2.5 percent in August -- will ease toward their 2
percent target over the next year. Still, they said it may cool
at a slower pace than previously forecast in the near term after
an increase in food and energy costs.  The central bank voted unanimously to keep its target for
bond purchases at 375 billion pounds ($607 billion) and the key
rate at a record low of 0.5 percent, minutes of the Sept. 5-6
meeting published yesterday showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  