-- U.K. Shale Gas May Meet 10% of Demand for 103 Years, IoD Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2012-09-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/u-k-shale-gas-may-meet-10-of-demand-for-103-years-iod-says.html
Exploitation of the U.K.’s shale-
gas reserves may meet 10 percent of U.K.  demand  for 103
years, according to the Institute of Directors.  There is enough onshore supply to offset 60 percent of the
decline in conventional production in 2022, the lobby group said
in an e-mailed report today. That estimate is based on the
assumption that U.K. gas production will decline by 13 million
metric tons of oil equivalent by that time and that shale-gas
production and recovery rates over the next 10 years are about
50 percent of U.S. levels in the past decade.  “Shale isn’t the answer to all our problems, but it would
be a really beneficial part of the energy mix, creating jobs,
driving decarbonization and helping to prevent constant rises in
energy prices,” said Dan Lewis, an energy-policy adviser at the
IoD. “Fracking has been controversial, but the reality is that
with proper regulation it is no more risky than any kind of
hydrocarbon extraction.”  Cuadrilla Resources Inc., which says it’s found more
natural gas trapped in British shale rock than  Iraq  has in its
entire reserves, plans to pursue hydraulic fracturing in three
wells by the end of this year, former Chief Executive Officer
 Mark Miller  said in an interview in May. The program hinges on
getting final approval from Britain’s energy department, which
called for an assessment of fracking after two tremors in the
area last year. Fracking involves the blasting of shale rock
with water, sand and chemicals to release gas,  Of the IoD members, 58 percent said that development of
shale reserves would benefit U.K. businesses, while 7 percent
predicted a negative impact, the lobby group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  