-- U.K. Proposes Incentives for Home Heating From Pumps to Solar
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-09-20T15:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/u-k-publishes-consultations-on-renewable-heat-incentives.html
The U.K proposed paying
householders to generate heat from renewable sources, opening a
public consultation.  The government is considering guaranteed payments for seven
years for homes that generate their own heat using air-and
ground-source heat pumps, biomass boilers and solar thermal
equipment, according to an e-mailed statement from the
Department for Energy and Climate Change.  The plan comes 10 months after the U.K. introduced
incentives for businesses to generate heat from renewables.
Today, the energy department published two further consultations
to expand the commercial program and to examine air-to-water
heat pumps and energy from waste.  “We need to revolutionize the way we heat our homes and
businesses and move away from expensive fossil fuels, not only
to cut carbon but to help meet our renewables targets and save
money on bills,” Energy and Climate Change Minister  Greg Barker 
said in the statement. “Our proposals aim to encourage even
more uptake of clean green heating in industry.”  The department proposed a tariff of 6.9 pence to 11.5 pence
per kilowatt-hour for heat from air source pumps, 5.2 pence to
8.7 pence for biomass boilers, 12.5 pence to 17.3 pence for
ground-source heat pumps and a solar thermal rate of 17.3 pence
per kilowatt-hour. The incentives will apply to households that
installed renewable heating since July 15, 2009.  Heat Program  The consultations on household incentives and expanding the
business heat program close on Dec. 7. The study into air-to-
water pumps and energy from waste ends on Oct. 18.  The Renewable Energy Association, an industry lobby group,
welcomed the government’s proposals and said renewables
currently make up just over 1 percent of the country’s total
heating, one of the lowest proportions in  Europe .  “Renewable heat has been the sleeping giant of U.K.
renewable energy policy,” Paul Thompson, head of policy at the
REA, said in an e-mailed statement. “Renewable heat
technologies are often very cost-effective, and have a major
role to play in reducing our  carbon emissions , improving our
 energy security , and revitalizing our economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  