-- U.K. Stocks Retreat on Chinese Data; Vedanta Paces Losses
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-09-20T16:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/u-k-stocks-retreat-on-chinese-data-vedanta-leads-losses.html
U.K. stocks  declined for the third
time in four days, led by a selloff in mining companies, as data
from China to Japan and the euro area heightened concern about
the strength of the global economy.  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  dropped more than 4
percent as a  gauge of basic-resources producers  tumbled the most
in three weeks.  Ocado Group Plc (OCDO)  sank 4.2 percent after the
online retailer’s sales missed analyst estimates.  Imperial
Tobacco (IMT)  Group Plc rallied the most in four months after raising
its revenue forecast.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  lost 33.84 points, or 0.6 percent, to
5,854.64 at the close of trading in  London . The broader FTSE
All-Share Index retreated 0.5 percent today, while Ireland’s
ISEQ Index increased 1.7 percent.  “Equities are trading lower today as economic data
highlighted that recent gains are not a true reflection of the
state of the global economy,” said Craig Erlam, a market
analyst at Alpari U.K. Ltd. in London.  The FTSE 100 climbed to the highest level since March last
week after unprecedented economic stimulus from the  European
Central Bank  and the U.S. Federal Reserve helped restore
investor confidence. The gauge has since fallen 1 percent.  A private survey today showed China’s manufacturing may
contract for an 11th month in September, adding to signs that
the world’s second-biggest economy is decelerating for a seventh
quarter. The purchasing managers’ index stood at 47.8, according
to a preliminary reading from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics. That compared with a final reading of 47.6 in August.
A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  China’s Concerns  “Although there was a slight improvement in the data, it
certainly isn’t convincing at all,” Stan Shamu, a market
strategist at IG, wrote in an e-mailed comments. “Investors
would have wanted to see a reading closer to 50 to alleviate
some of China’s concerns in the near term.”  Separate reports showed Japan’s exports fell 5.8 percent in
August from a year earlier, the third straight decline, while
services and manufacturing output in the euro-area slumped to a
three-year low in September.  A gauge of U.K.-listed mining companies slid 2.4 percent,
the biggest decline since Aug. 30.  Anglo American retreated 4.4 percent to 1,944 pence as
copper and lead declined on the London Metal Exchange. Lonmin
lost 6.3 percent to 610.5 pence, falling for the first time in
six days.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , controlled by billionaire  Anil
Agarwal , dropped 2.4 percent to 1,054 pence.  Ocado Drops  Ocado tumbled 4.2 percent to 64.4 pence, extending the
stock’s retreat this week to 13 percent. The U.K.’s largest
online grocer reported a 9.9 percent increase in third-quarter
sales. That was slower than the first half’s 12 percent and
missing the average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey,
which was also 12 percent.  Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc (CSCG) , the U.K.’s biggest
shopping-mall owner, slid 4.1 percent to 332.4 pence. The
company announced a 300 million-pound ($486 million) sale of
convertible bonds to help refinance short-term loans, advance a
pipeline of developments and make further acquisitions.  Imperial Tobacco  gained 2.7 percent to 2,399 pence, the
largest increase since May 1. The cigarette maker forecast a 4
percent increase in full-year net revenue from tobacco
,excluding currency shifts, helped by growth in Eastern Europe.
That beat the median analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  rose 1 percent to 734
pence after U.K. media regulator Ofcom ruled the company could
keep its broadcast license.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  