-- U.S. Needs Strike Over Inequities in Public Schools
-- B y   M a t t   M i l l e r
-- 2012-09-20T22:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/u-s-needs-strike-over-inequities-in-public-schools.html
Lost in the clash between Mayor
 Rahm Emanuel  and Chicago Teachers Union President Karen Lewis is
an injustice whose remedy would do more to improve schools in
the Windy City than anything to which the two sides just agreed.  I’m talking about the uniquely American local system of
school finance -- one that dooms millions of poor children to
the least-qualified teachers and most run-down facilities in the
country. No other wealthy nation tolerates the funding
disparities between rich and poor districts that the U.S. does.
Even conservatives in other countries agree that poor kids need
greater investment to overcome disadvantage. Yet calling
attention to this scandal is taboo in American politics because
it hides behind the mask of “local control.”  Look at the issues at the  heart  of the  Chicago  strike and
you will see a common denominator: money. It takes money to
boost teacher salaries to attract and retain decent talent. It
takes money to extend the school day and to make sure the extra
time is used well. It takes money to address overcrowded classes
or textbook shortages.  Yet to listen to conservative  critics , Chicago’s schools
are already rolling in dough. “Chicago teachers already make on
average far more ($71,000) than the average private worker
($47,000),” the Wall Street Journal’s editorial page chided,
adding that the deal “will increase the wealth redistribution.”  Comparing Teachers  Where to begin? For starters, we should want teaching to
 pay  more than the average job because the profession is critical
to the nation’s future. Cancer researchers at the  National
Institutes of Health ; nuclear engineers in the Navy; and
economists at the  Federal Reserve  make more than average
workers, too, and that’s a good thing. So let’s get past
ideological attempts to stoke resentment of public workers and
focus on how to make schools in poor neighborhoods better.  Once we do, as anyone in business can tell you, the salary
comparison that matters isn’t teachers versus average workers in
Chicago, but teachers in Chicago versus teachers in Chicago’s
nearby affluent suburbs. Schools in a local labor market compete
for the teaching and administrative talent that determines
whether or not schools excel.  In 2011, Chicago’s public schools  spent  $7,946 per pupil
for instructional (that is, classroom) purposes; the New Trier
school district, a short ride up the road, spent $12,043, or 51
percent more. In a class of 25 kids, that’s a difference of more
than $102,000. This explains why starting and maximum salaries
for teachers in New Trier are much higher than in Chicago; and
why the average teacher salary in New Trier is $103,000 compared
with Chicago’s $71,000. (These figures are from the Center for
Tax and Budget Accountability in Chicago, which  tracks  fiscal-
equity trends.)  The point? When suburban schools pay better, have much
nicer facilities and working conditions, and are filled with
kids who are easier to teach (because they don’t have the many
problems that come with poverty), it is no surprise that, over
time, the best teachers gravitate to the best suburban schools.
We are relying on the “missionary plan” to staff schools in poor
neighborhoods.  The local property-tax basis of much school finance means
wealthier communities can tax themselves at lower rates and
still generate far more spending per pupil.  New Trier  has 7.5
times the property wealth per pupil that Chicago has, taxes its
residents’ property at roughly half Chicago’s rate, and
generates vastly more dollars per pupil.  Lower taxes, better schools -- nice deal if you can get it.  Invisible Inequity  School-finance inequity has been largely invisible in U.S.
politics for three reasons.  First, teachers unions are uncomfortable talking about the
lower-caliber talent the profession can recruit, on average, for
schools in poor neighborhoods. It feels disrespectful to the
current corps, many of whom are talented instructors working
their hearts out under trying conditions.  Second, the U.S. tradition of “local control” of schools --
which really means “local control and funding” -- has given an
unjust system a patina of virtue. In  Illinois , two-thirds of
school financing comes from local taxes; you can’t save poor
kids without higher levels of government putting up cash.  Finally, some urban districts --  Newark , N.J., and
Washington are the leading examples -- have high per-pupil
spending and shoddy results. Most poor districts don’t spend as
much as nearby suburbs, but critics use these outliers to
discredit the idea that money matters. (A new  report  out this
week from my colleagues at the Center for American Progress
chronicles other “stealth inequities” in school funding, as
well.)  Not long ago, I spoke with an education official in
 Singapore , whose system is widely praised for its teaching
talent, and for making sure schools serving poor children have
teachers just as good as those serving well-to-do families.  “I guess that commitment to equity is a cultural norm,” I
said at one point.  “No, it’s not a ‘cultural norm,’” he said, correcting me.
“It’s a policy choice.”  A policy choice. Imagine if the U.S. made a choice like
that.  You won’t hear a peep about school-finance equity in the
presidential campaign, even though both candidates claim to be
passionate about education. Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  won’t
raise it because fixing it involves -- gulp! --
“redistribution.” President  Barack Obama  won’t raise it for the
same reason (though Education Secretary Arne Duncan has set up a
commission, on which I serve, to look at these issues).  The solution is a bigger role for the federal government in
school financing. Nowhere in the Constitution does it say that
federal officials should provide only 8 percent or 9 percent of
the money for K-12 education.  Protest March  But for now, the only way to get this pervasive injustice
onto the national agenda is grass-roots protest. Here is an idea
for Chicago’s mayor and union chief: Now that the strike is
over, why not lead a march on Springfield together to showcase
how the Illinois funding system hurts poor kids? And recruit
smart high-school students from the inner city to serve as the
face and voice of a new movement.  The reforms that Chicago just negotiated may help improve
schools incrementally over the next decade or two. But the
strike that Chicago and the nation needs is to demand school-
funding equity -- it is the only way to alter the life chances
of today’s poor kids while they are still in the classroom.  ( Matt Miller  is a  senior fellow  at the Center for American
Progress and the author of “The Tyranny of Dead Ideas.” He is
also host of public radio’s “Left, Right & Center.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  challenges facing Japan’s
leaders  and on why  poverty and inequality  aren’t as bad as you
think; Stephen L. Carter on how Hustler magazine can inform  our
response to Mideast violence ;  Pankaj Mishra  on the tangled roots
of  the Sino-Japanese territorial spat ; William Pesek on  Japan’s
slow tsunami recovery ;  Jonathan Weil  on  banks inflating their
capital ; Mel and Patricia Ziegler on  selling Banana Republic to
The Gap .  To contact the writer of this article:
Matt Miller at  mattmillernow@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 