-- U.S. September Philadelphia Business Outlook Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-09-20T14:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/u-s-september-philadelphia-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Philadelphia area manufacturing activity from the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia .  Sep-12  Firms responding to the September Business Outlook Survey
reported nearly flat business activity this month. The survey’s
indicators for general activity and new orders both improved
from last month but recorded levels near zero. Firms reported
continuing declines in shipments, employment, and hours worked.
Indicators for the firms’ expectations over the next six months,
however, improved notably this month, although the same firms
forecast continued deceleration in production growth in the
fourth quarter.  Indicators Suggest Flat Growth  The survey’s broadest measure of manufacturing conditions, the
diffusion index of current activity, increased 5 points, to a
reading of -1.9.  Although this marks the fifth consecutive
negative reading for the index, the index has been edging nearer
to zero over the last three months.  Nearly 23 percent of firms
reported declines in activity this month, down from 30 percent
last month. The demand for manufactured goods, as measured by
the current new orders index, improved 7 points from last month
and recorded its first positive reading in five months.
Shipments fell notably this month, however: The current
shipments index fell 10 points to -21.2. Declines in inventories
were more widespread this month, and firms reported continued
declines in unfilled orders and shorter delivery times.  Labor market conditions at the reporting firms remained weak
this month. The current employment index, at -7.3, was little
changed from its reading in July and August. The percentage of
firms reporting decreases in employment (22 percent) exceeded
the percentage reporting increases (15 percent). Firms also
indicated fewer hours worked: The average workweek index
increased 7 points but posted its sixth consecutive negative
reading.  Price Indexes for Output Remain Steady  The prices firms paid for purchased inputs rose modestly this
month, while prices for their final manufactured goods re-mained
steady. The prices paid index decreased from 11.2 to 8.0, with
24 percent of the firms reporting input price increases. With
respect to their own manufactured goods, firms reported steady
prices, on balance. The percentage reporting an increase in
product prices was offset by the same percentage reporting a
decrease (13 percent).  Six-Month Indicators Show Improvement  Most of the survey’s future indicators improved from their
readings in August. The future general activity index increased
from 12.5 to 41.2. The percentage of firms expecting increases
in activity over the next six months (50 percent) exceeded the
percentage expecting decreases (9 percent) by a large margin.
The indexes for future new orders and shipments also increased,
each rising 31 points.  The future employment index also
improved, increasing 11 points. The share of firms expecting to
increase employment over the next six months (32 percent) was
greater than the share expecting to decrease employment (11
percent).  In supplemental questions, firms were asked to estimate their
total production growth for the third quarter ending this month
and expected growth for the fourth quarter (see Special
Questions). Firms forecasting total decreases in third quarter
production (47 percent) exceeded those forecasting increases (35
percent). The average production growth rate for the reporting
group was an expected decline of nearly 1 percent. With regard
to the fourth quarter, the percentage of firms expecting a
deceleration in the rate of their production growth (45 percent)
was greater than the percentage expecting acceleration in growth
(32 percent).  Summary  The September Business Outlook Survey suggests that activity
among the region’s manufacturing sector has steadied, following
several months of reported declines. Firms reported declines in
shipments and employment, however.  Prices of firms’
manufactured goods were moderately higher this month, although
output prices remained steady. The survey’s future indexes
recorded notable increases this month, suggesting that firms are
more optimistic regarding growth over the next six months.
However, firms reported that they expect continued weakness for
the remainder of this year.  Special Questions (September 2012)  1.  How will your firmï¿½s total production for the third
quarter compare with that of the second quarter?  %
Lower                        46.8
No change                    18.2
Higher                       35.1  Average rate of change:  -0.7%*  2. For the upcoming fourth quarter, what growth do you expect
for production at your plant compared to the third quarter?  %           subtotals
Significant deceleration     6.4
Some deceleration           24.4
Slight deceleration         14.1             44.9
No change                   20.5             20.5
Slight acceleration         18.0
Some acceleration           10.3
Significant acceleration     3.8             32.1
N.R.                         2.5              2.5
Total                      100.0            100.0  *Firms provided estimates for third quarter growth within
specific numerical ranges.  Notes: (1) Items may not add to 100 percent because of omission
by respondents. (2) All data are seasonally adjusted. (3)
Diffusion indexes represent the percentage of respondents
indicating an increase minus the percentage indicating a
decrease. (4) Survey data reflect information received through
September 18, 2012.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 