-- U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for Sept. 20 to Dec. 31 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-09-20T12:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-sept-20-to-dec-31-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the National Weather
Service in  Camp Springs , Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - Drought amelioration occurred
across the middle  Mississippi  and Ohio Valleys from late August
to mid-September, while drought intensified and expanded across
the Great Plains, upper Mississippi Valley, and northern
Rockies. Drought is expected to persist across most of the Great
Plains and upper Mississippi Valley, while prospects for
improvement increase across the Ohio Valley, middle Mississippi
Valley, and southern  Texas . Drought also expanded or intensified
across the northern Rockies where additional development or
persistence is expected. Development forecast across the Pacific
Northwest and northern California is consistent with the CPC
monthly and seasonal outlooks calling for enhanced odds for
below median precipitation during an increasingly wet time of
year. An active monsoon resulted in drought improvement across
parts of the Southwest since late August. The end of the monsoon
offers decreasing chances for widespread improvement and
persistence is now forecast for the Southwest. Improvement is
expected for the small areas of drought across the mid-Atlantic
and western New York. No changes were made to the previous
outlook in  Hawaii  where persistence or development can be
expected.  Tools used in the U.S. Drought Outlook (USDO) included the
official CPC temperature and precipitation outlooks for October
2012 and the long lead forecast for October through December
2012, various medium- and short-range forecasts and models such
as the 6-10 day and 8-14 day forecasts, the most recent 384-hour
GFS total precipitation amounts, the soil moisture tools based
on the Constructed Analog on Soil (CAS) moisture, the Climate
Forecast System (CFS, versions 1 and 2), the four-month Palmer
drought termination and amelioration probabilities, climatology,
and initial conditions. El Nino precipitation anomalies for
October through December were also considered.  Some improvement is forecast for the long-term drought areas of
eastern  Alabama  and  Georgia . Following a moderate rainfall (0.5
- 1.5 inches) across this region during mid-September, enhanced
odds for below median precipitation are forecast during the
remainder of September. Although October and November are a
relatively dry time of year for the Southeast, the CPC outlook
for OND calls for enhanced odds for above median precipitation
for eastern Alabama and Georgia. Therefore, some improvement is
forecast for this region but long-term precipitation deficits
are not expected to be eliminated. Forecast confidence for the
Southeast is moderate.  A widespread moderate to heavy rainfall during mid-September
occurred across the mid-Atlantic and western  New York . The 6-
10/8-14 day outlooks call for near to above median precipitation
for these areas, while the CPC monthly outlook indicates
enhanced odds for below median precipitation for western New
York. Soil moisture currently ranks in the 20th to 30th
percentile with precipitation deficits since January 1 ranging
from 5 to 10 inches below normal. The CPC outlook for OND calls
for equal chances of below, near, or above median precipitation.
Since evaporation rates are lower and precipitation is evenly
distributed throughout the year, above or near median
precipitation would improve drought conditions across the mid-
Atlantic and western New York. Forecast confidence for the mid-
Atlantic and western New York is high.  Due to an increase in rainfall during August and early
September, largely from the remnants of Isaac, significant
amelioration of drought occurred across  Arkansas , southeast
 Missouri , and the eastern Corn Belt. Soil moisture levels and
stream flows have mostly recovered in these areas since mid-
summer. The seasonal decline in temperatures and equal chances
for below, near, or above median precipitation in the CPC
outlook for OND result in a forecast for some improvement across
the middle Mississippi and Ohio Valleys. Forecast confidence for
the middle Mississippi Valley and Ohio Valley is moderate.  According to the USDM, extreme to exceptional drought covers
nearly all of  Oklahoma  with varying drought intensity across
Texas. A relatively dry climatology favors persistence across
western Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle. Prospects for some
improvement increase across the southern half of Texas where
climatologically, conditions do not become drier during OND, and
the CPC monthly/seasonal outlooks indicate a tilt in the odds
towards above median precipitation. El Nino precipitation
composites indicating above median precipitation across south
Texas are also considered. Forecast confidence for Oklahoma and
Texas is moderate.  During the past month, drought coverage increased across the
northern Great Plains and upper Mississippi Valley with drought
intensifying across the central Great Plains. According to the
USDM, most of  Kansas ,  Nebraska , and southern  South Dakota  are
designated in the extreme or exceptional drought category. A
relatively dry climatology favors persistence across the
northern/central Great Plains and upper Mississippi Valley.
Development is forecast for areas in the Dakotas,  Minnesota , and
western  Wisconsin  that are currently designated with the D0
category (abnormal dryness) in the USDM. The 6-10 and 8-14 day
outlooks call for enhanced odds for below median precipitation
across the northern Great Plains and upper Mississippi Valley.
Forecast confidence for the northern/central Great Plains and
upper Mississippi Valley is high.  A relatively dry climatology and increased chances for below
median precipitation/above normal temperatures favor persistence
and development across  Montana . During the past 30 days, drought
expanded in Montana where dry, warm weather prevailed. Forecast
confidence for the northern Rockies is high.  During September, dry weather accompanied by unseasonably warm
temperatures also affected the Pacific Northwest. As of
September 20, multiple large wildfires are burning across the
Pacific Northwest. Since tools on all time scales indicate
enhanced odds for below median precipitation, persistence or
development is forecast for the Pacific Northwest and northern
 California . El Nino precipitation composites indicating below
median precipitation across these areas are also considered.
Forecast confidence for the Pacific Northwest and northern
California is high.  Since the previous outlook issued on September 6, improvement
across the Southwest is replaced with persistence as the monsoon
ends. Although localized improvement is possible with any late
monsoon rainfall during late September into the beginning of
October, widespread improvement is not expected. Therefore, a
large area of persistence is forecast across the Southwest.
Persistence is also forecast for the central Rockies where most
tools indicate weak precipitation signals. Forecast confidence
for the Southwest and central Rockies is low.  In Hawaii, October through December become progressively wetter.
However, the long-lead forecast indicates enhanced chances for
below-normal rainfall. As a result, drought is expected to
persist in existing areas and slowly expand into other parts of
the state, much like the previous Drought Outlook. Still, the
fact that the Islands are getting climatologically wetter during
the period does imply that the chances for drought-relieving
rains improve later in the period, even if only based on
climatology. Forecast confidence for Hawaii is low.  SOURCE:  National Weather Service   To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  