-- U.S. Commercial Paper Declines to Least Since July, Fed Says
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2012-09-20T15:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/u-s-commercial-paper-declines-to-least-since-july-fed-says-1-.html
The market for corporate borrowing
via  commercial paper  contracted to the least in almost two
months as financial issuers relied more on central bank
financing after monetary easing steps by the  Federal Reserve  and
 European Central Bank .  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
fell $7.2 billion to $1.008 trillion outstanding in the week
ended yesterday, the third consecutive decrease, the Federal
Reserve said today on its website. It’s the longest stretch of
declines since the period ended June 20 and the lowest level
since the market touched $1.003 trillion in the period ended
July 25, according to Fed data compiled by Bloomberg.  As investor demand has declined for short-term obligations
from banks on concern that Europe’s sovereign-debt turmoil will
taint balance sheets globally, financial borrowers have turned
more to central banks for funding. European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said Sept. 6 that policy makers agreed to
an unlimited bond-purchase program. The Federal Reserve said on
Sept. 13 it will expand its holdings of long-term securities
with purchases of $40 billion of mortgage debt a month.  “Financial-sector issuance is in decline as external
short-term financing has been provided by central banks in lieu
of the market,”  Howard Simons , strategist at Bianco Research
LLC in Chicago, wrote in an e-mail.  ‘Terming Out’  Commercial paper sold by non-U.S. financial institutions 
dropped about $6.2 billion to $229 billion outstanding, the
lowest level since the period ended Aug. 8, while the  amount
issued by U.S.-based banks  fell for a third straight week,
declining $4.4 billion to $286.5 billion outstanding, according
to the Fed.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as rent and
salaries. Borrowers are issuing less in this market as they are
“taking advantage of low interest rates and terming out their
debt,” by selling longer-maturity corporate bonds,  Sean Simko ,
a money manager at SEI Investments Co. in Oaks, Pennsylvania,
whose team manages about $3 billion of commercial paper, wrote
in an e-mail.  Investment-grade, dollar-denominated borrowing costs fell
yesterday to an unprecedented 2.94 percent, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Parry in  New York  at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  