-- U.S. Credit Swaps Increase as Traders Shift Into New Benchmark
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-09-20T21:18:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/u-s-credit-swaps-increase-as-traders-shift-into-new-benchmark.html
A benchmark gauge of corporate
credit risk rose as banks,  hedge funds  and other money managers
moved trades into a new version of the credit-default swaps
index.  Series 19 of the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, used to hedge against losses on company debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, traded at 96.2 basis points, 9.1
basis points higher than Series 18 as of 5:06 p.m. in New York,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fair value of the
difference between the old and the new series is estimated to be
9 basis points, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. note.  New versions of Markit Group Ltd.’s indexes, which
typically rise as investor confidence deteriorates and fall as
it improves, are created every six months. Companies are
replaced if they no longer have appropriate credit grades,
aren’t among the most actively traded borrowers or fail to meet
other criteria.  “Almost all the widening you’re seeing today is due to the
roll,” Hans Mikkelsen, a high-grade credit strategist at Bank
of America Corp. in New York, said in a telephone interview. The
gap between the two series is “very close to what we were
thinking” when comparing the difference in spread between the
names entering and exiting the index.  The new series of the investment-grade gauge added  Ford
Motor Co. (F) ,  MeadWestvaco Corp. (MWV)  and  Staples Inc. (SPLS) , replacing CA
Inc.,  GATX Corp. (GMT)  and a unit of Vornado Realty Trust.  ‘Fair Value’  “We’re close to what the fair value underlying CDS
implies, so it’s a normal, healthy roll,” Dominique Toublan, a
JPMorgan strategist in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“People seem to have reduced their short risk positions in the
last few weeks when the rally accelerated.”  Series 18 reached an 18-month low of 83 basis points last
week after the  Federal Reserve  announced a third round of bond
buying. The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  More Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week. Jobless claims decreased by
3,000 in the week ended Sept. 15 to 382,000, Labor Department
figures showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of 49
economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected 375,000.  The number of global corporate defaults in 2012 rose to 57,
almost double the 29 defaults in all of 2011, according to a
report from  Standard & Poor’s . The trailing 12-month U.S.
speculative-grade default rate is expected to increase to 3.7
percent by June 2013 from 2.7 percent in June 2012.  Global Defaults  U.S. companies account for 30 of this year’s defaults,
while there have been 17 in  emerging markets , seven in  Europe 
and three in other developed regions.  Banco Cruzeiro do Sul SA 
was the most recent company to default, according to the report.
Trading of the lender was halted prior to Brazil’s central bank
announcing the company’s liquidation Sept. 14.  Swaps tied to  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  rose 2.8 percentage points to
9.8 percent upfront as of 3:30 p.m. in New York, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it would
cost $980,000 initially and $500,000 annually to protect $10
million of J.C. Penney’s debt. Chief Executive Officer Ron Johnson yesterday showcased his stores’ new layout to a group of
about 300 analysts.  “The J.C. Penney pullback looks appropriate as it had
gotten ahead of itself in both bonds and equity,” Noel Hebert,
chief investment officer of Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based
Concannon Wealth Management LLC, said today in an e-mail.
“There is still a lot of execution risk, not to mention macro
risk and having to win back consumer share in a weak consumer
environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in  New York  at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  