-- UBS Overlooked Limits When Trades Made Money, Lawyer Says
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-09-21T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/ubs-overlooked-limits-when-trade-made-money-lawyer-says.html
A lawyer for Kweku Adoboli, the
former  UBS AG (UBSN)  trader on trial for unauthorized trading, said the
bank had a culture that overlooked trading limits and other
rules as long as employees made money.  Charles Sherrard, a lawyer for Adoboli, said UBS became
“more aggressive in terms of its desire to make profits” in
2011, while cross-examining one of Adoboli’s former bosses at a
trial in London yesterday. Sherrard cited e-mails from Adoboli
telling managers about positions he had that exceeded trading
limits.  “This is the first example where culture, the practice at
the bank you were working for, the risk limits didn’t matter as
long as you were making money,” Sherrard said to Ron Greenidge,
who oversaw UBS’s exchange-traded-funds desk until April of last
year.  Adoboli, 32, is on trial charged with fraud and false
accounting over unauthorized trades that lost UBS $2.3 billion.
Adoboli admitted he risked $5 billion on Standard & Poor’s 500
futures and a further $3.75 billion in the German futures market
shortly before he was arrested, Greenidge said in testimony
Sept. 19. He has denied the charges against him.  Risk limits for the bank’s ETF desk were agreed on orally
and could be exceeded, Greenidge said. The only written risk
limits were “at a very high level,” Greenidge testified.  Gross Misconduct  Greenidge, who worked at UBS for 19 years, said yesterday
he was dismissed for gross misconduct because of Adoboli’s
trades. He said he felt the bank was making him a scapegoat and
had no knowledge of the fictitious trades or an internal account
at UBS allegedly created by Adoboli, which he called his
“umbrella” and stored as much as $40 million in to cover
losses.  Sherrard read out Adoboli’s performance reviews from 2009
written by Greenidge, which said the trader needed to work less.
Greenidge said Adoboli was a “great ambassador for the ETF
product” and had outstanding performance that year.  John Hughes , one of Adoboli’s former colleagues on the
Delta One trading desk, said in a peer review he was “great
with clients” and was “certainly the good cop of the ETF
team.” His only criticism was that “too many people take his
good nature for granted.”  Fictitious Trades  Greenidge, who said he had daily contact with Adoboli after
he became a trader in 2006, was one of the first people to meet
with him last year on the day he confessed to hiding trades. At
the Sept. 14, 2011, meeting, Adoboli said his first fictitious
trade was made in October 2008, Greenidge testified Sept. 19.  The culture at UBS changed with the arrival from Deutsche
Bank of Yassine Bouhara in 2010 as the co-head of equities,
Sherrard said. Bouhara is no longer at the bank.  “The very nature of the bank became more aggressive in
terms of its desire to make profit,” Sherrard said to
Greenidge. “The mantra was coming from above was revenue,
revenue, revenue.”  Greenidge conceded the focus had changed.  “My interaction with the people who came in from Deutsche
Bank was somewhat limited, but the culture that they seemed to
add was different,” he said. “The message that was coming down
to me was still reputation, reputation, reputation.”  UBS would have turned a blind eye to the fake trades if
Adoboli had made money, Sherrard said. Greenidge disagreed and
said Adoboli would have been fired regardless of the profit or
loss if the fictitious trades were discovered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 