-- Ukraine Auditing 10,000 Buttons Torments Opposition Businesses
-- B y   J a m e s   M .   G o m e z ,   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2012-09-20T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/ukraine-auditing-10-000-buttons-torments-opposition-businesses.html
Yaroslav Rushchyshyn likes to call
the antique clothing irons displayed at his Ukrainian factory
the “backup line,” for when authorities punish him for
criticizing government policies by shutting down the power.  He’s only half joking. Rushchyshyn’s Lviv-based Jsc
Trottola, which makes women’s garments for such retailers as
 Inditex SA (ITX) ’s Zara chain, has endured what he says are spot tax
audits and truck inspections. It’s an example of state pressure
that “kills off investment” to the former Soviet republic,
delays production and erodes profits, he said.  “Nobody trusts that it is possible to make money in
Ukraine in a fair way,” said Rushchyshyn, who backs the
political opposition. “Nobody has faith that tomorrow the
authorities won’t take their hard-earned money from them.”  More than two years after President  Viktor Yanukovych ’s
election quelled the Orange Revolution’s promise to end
political corruption in Ukraine, more than a dozen company
owners say they worry the nation may be returning to the era of
Leonid Kuchma. President from 1994 to 2005, Kuchma was isolated
by the European Union and the U.S. for selling assets to cronies
and thwarting efforts to develop a free market.  Executives affiliated with the opposition say the
harassment is particularly targeted at them. The shift to a more
authoritarian rule gained western attention after opposition
leader  Yulia Tymoshenko  was convicted in October 2011 of abuse
of power and sentenced to seven years in prison.  Banned T-Shirts  Steelmaker  PJSC Stalkanat-Silur ’s Odessa plant was
temporarily seized in January by authorities, halting
production, the company announced at the time. Stalkanat-Silur’s
owner, Vladimir Nemirovskiy, is a campaign contributor to
Arseniy Yatsenyuk, the co-leader of Tymoshenko’s Batkivshchyna
party. In Kharkiv in the east, Arsen Avakov, a former governor
who supports the region’s opposition, said last month his bank
was forcibly liquidated. He is seeking an arbitration court
ruling on the closure.  Prostoprint.com ’s owner, Denis Oleinikov, moved to  Croatia 
after policemen trashed his Kiev office for printing a T-shirt
mocking Yanukovych, he said in a June interview. And the
Ukrainian unit of White Plains, New York-based  Bunge Ltd. (BG) , was
accused of tax embezzlement, according to the company. It denies
the charges.  The economy is paying the price for Yanukovych’s policies.
The EU froze a key trade agreement after Tymoshenko’s jailing,
foreign investment is slowing and the  stock index  turned in
eastern Europe’s worst performance this year. The hryvnia, the
currency, is down 7.1 percent against the euro since July 23,
compared with a 1.5 percent drop in the Hungarian forint and the
Polish zloty’s 1 percent decline.  Overhauled Taxes  The declines came even after Parliament passed tax-code
changes that for the first time united and organized all related
tax laws, lowered the corporate tax burden and streamlined
customs payments.  It wasn’t enough, said Anna Derevyanko, executive director
of the European Business Association in Kiev, adding that the
association supports the customs-code overhaul.  “If you ask businessmen whether those changes help them in
their work, only a few would say yes,” she said in Yalta,
Ukraine, at the Sept. 14-15  Yalta European Strategy Conference .
“The majority of the population should feel improvement from
changes, not a small group of privileged people.”  Ukraine slipped this year in the  World Bank ’s  Ease of Doing
Business survey  to 152nd place among 183 nations, the lowest in
Europe and below  Burkina Faso  and Liberia. The European business
association  rates  Ukraine’s investment climate 2.19 out of 5,
saying “the overall picture remains mostly unfavorable.”  ‘Fast Modernization’  Yanukovych, speaking at the conference in Yalta, said the
key to protecting the former communist country from the effects
of Europe’s economic crisis is “fast modernization.” He called
for more investments to help bolster the economy.  “We want to become an attractive country for investments
and an easy place to start a business,” Yanukovych told the
conference attendees. “We want to have sustainable economic
growth, helped by business and investments.”  Darka Chepak, Yanukovych’s spokeswoman, didn’t respond to
 text messages  and emails over three days seeking comment about
Ukraine’s treatment of businesses.  The political developments in Ukraine come as Russian
President Vladimir Putin stamps down on public dissent with
legal action and jail sentences, including the incarceration of
three members of the female opposition punk band Pussy Riot.  “Ukraine is making a step back to the Soviet past, not
even back to the wild 1990s,” said Olga Shumylo-Tapiola, a
visiting scholar at Carnegie Europe in Brussels. “It’s moving
toward a self-contained system, where a small group enjoys life
and the rest of people are a grey mass.”  Stalled Accord  The EU in December last year indefinitely stalled
negotiations toward an association accord, a first step toward
integration and membership. While European Commission President
 Jose Barroso  told the Yalta conference via a televised link that
the EU wants to be “closer and closer,” he also said
Tymoshenko deserved “a free and transparent trial.”  The blonde-braided Tymoshenko served as prime minister
under former President  Viktor Yushchenko , who was elected in a
revote in 2004 after Yanukovych’s electoral victory was thrown
out by the  Supreme Court . Five years later, with the world
sinking into recession and Tymoshenko and Yushchenko split
politically, Yanukovych won the presidency. A parliamentary vote
is scheduled for October.  “The world is watching the Tymoshenko case with the
elections in a few months,”  Condoleezza Rice , national security
adviser to former President  George W. Bush , told the Yalta
conference. “I would hope Ukraine’s leaders will recognize that
democracy requires listening to citizens. Any democracy that
doesn’t have opposition is not a democracy.”  Poorest Country  The economy has grown every quarter since 2009, with gross
domestic product expanding 3 percent in the second quarter,
faster than neighboring  Poland ’s 2.4 percent. Other former
communist countries, including Slovenia and the  Czech Republic ,
were in recession.  Even so, Ukraine is the third-poorest country in the region
after Moldova and Albania. Its growth stems from exports of
goods such as steel and grain and isn’t a reflection of stable
economic fundamentals, said Alexander Valchyshen, head of
research at investment bank Investment Capital Ukraine in Kiev.  GDP per capita in Ukraine will total $1,976 this year,
according to the  International Monetary Fund . Bulgaria, the
poorest country in the EU, will probably end 2012 with GDP per
capita of $4,794. Poland will have GDP per capita of $10,967 for
2012 and Russia, Ukraine’s former Soviet partner, will see GDP
per capita increase to $9,674, according to the IMF.  Soccer Spending  Since the start of 2010, when Yanukovych took office,
foreign direct investment has totaled $12.4 billion, some of it
stimulated by the Euro 2012 soccer tournament, an event clinched
by his predecessor. In the first 2 1/2 years under Yushchenko’s
rule, which started at the beginning of 2005, foreign direct
investment totaled $17 billion, according the country’s
statistics committee.  “The perception is that institutions are weak, the legal
system is weak, corruption is high,” Valchyshen said an
interview at his Kiev office, “The global investment community
in key global financial centers, like London,  Frankfurt , New
York, sees Ukraine’s economy as off their radar screens.”  The  Ukrainian Equities Index (UX)  is down 28 percent since the
beginning of the year, compared with an 11 percent gain in
Poland’s benchmark  WIG20 Index. (WIG20)  It was Europe’s second-worst
performance after Cyprus.  Sale Wishes  “I hold some Ukrainian shares but only very little, and I
would like to sell if the market improves slightly because of
political uncertainty,” said Margarete Strasser, who helps
manage 500 million euros ($650 million) at Pioneer Investments
Austria in Vienna. “I don’t see any restructuring and I don’t
see any improvement in the system itself.”  Traders at brokerages and local investment banks including
Troika Dialog and Dragon Capital staged a one-hour halt in
trading on the Kiev Stock Exchange yesterday to protest a law
passed by Yanukovych’s allies in Parliament.  It would create a new a monopoly on such services as
clearing and payment transactions, said Oleg Tkachenko, chief
executive officer at Ukraine’s benchmark exchange. It “will be
an additional push that would force Ukrainian issuers and
investors to escape,” he said in an e-mail.  Trottola’s Rushchyshyn first felt state pressure in the
early 2000s, when he sided with the Orange Revolution against
Kuchma, who had picked Yanukovych to succeed him.  Rushchyshyn’s activities included a donation of 1.5 million
hryvnia ($184,450) to Orange Revolution activists and the
publication of an opposition newspaper. He was rewarded by a
team of tax auditors who sat at his office for weeks going over
books. Some counted tens of thousands of buttons on inventory,
he said. He’s laid off half his 2,000 workforce since 2008.  “We have a big problem because people working for the
state have this Soviet mentality,” Rushchyshyn said. “We as a
country don’t have respect for the businessman.  We don’t
respect people who work.” 