-- Hungary May Be Able to Sell Eurobonds Before IMF Pact, ING Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-09-20T13:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/hungary-may-be-able-to-sell-eurobonds-before-imf-pact-ing-says.html
Hungary may be able to sell
Eurobonds before agreeing on an International Monetary Fund
rescue loan because investor appetite for risk has increased,
according to ING Groep NV.  Hungary may follow peers such as Ukraine in tapping foreign
debt markets after the  European Central Bank  announced an
unlimited bond-buying program, the  Federal Reserve  started a
third round of quantitative easing and the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
expanded its asset-purchase fund by 10 trillion yen ($126
billion), Simon Quijano-Evans, ING’s London-based head of
emerging-market research for Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa,
said today in response to e-mailed questions.  “The backdrop for a Hungarian Eurobond issue is very
conducive,” Quijano-Evans wrote. It’s “an opportune time now
for the sovereign, given the low level in yields and the
substantial liquidity pledges” from the three central banks.  Hungary requested aid in November as its  credit rating  was
cut to junk. Negotiations for a loan of about a 15 billion euros
($19 billion) were delayed multiple times because of Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban ’s resistance to adhere to legal and
economic conditions set by the IMF and the European Union.  While yields on Hungary’s international bonds are the
lowest in more than a year, the government ruled out a foreign-
currency debt issue until a bailout deal is in place. Hungary
needs the IMF to show flexibility in loan negotiations, chief
negotiator Mihaly Varga said, a sign that easing market pressure
may reduce the country’s resolve to obtain aid.  Talks Stall  The yield on Hungary’s benchmark 2019 euro-denominated bond
fell 2 basis points to 5.99 percent as of 2:16 p.m. in Budapest,
the lowest since June 2011.  The latest round of IMF talks stalled after Orban on Sept.
6 rejected cutting pensions and scrapping an extraordinary bank
tax as well as other measures to reduce the  budget deficit  and
boost growth, which he said were the IMF’s conditions.  “If the government is able to initiate a successful chain
of Eurobond auctions, while increasing the predictability of
policy, then the need for a new loan program diminishes,”
Quijano-Evans wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  