-- Unicom Leads Chinese Slump as PMI Signals Contraction
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-09-20T20:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/unicom-leads-chinese-slump-as-pmi-signals-contraction.html
Chinese equities fell to the lowest
level in a week in New York, led by telecommunication companies,
after a manufacturing  index (HSCEI)  signaled production may contract for
an 11th month.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. sank 1.6 percent to 91.27 yesterday.
 China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (CHU)  plunged the most in three months
and  China  Telecom Corp. retreated after the two operators
reported slower growth in mobile users in August. Macau Casino
operator  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  traded at the widest
 discount  to its Hong Kong stock in eight weeks following  Las
Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) ’s plans to add a fifth resort in the city.  The preliminary reading for a China purchasing managers’
index by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics was 47.8. If
confirmed, the gauge will post its longest streak below the
expansion-contraction dividing line of 50 in the survey’s eight-
year history. Third-quarter growth for the world’s second-
largest economy may slow to 7.4 percent from 7.6 percent in the
previous three months, according to the median estimate of 23
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The performance of Chinese stocks reflects a weak outlook
for the Chinese economy,” Qinwei Wang, an economist at  Capital
Economics  Ltd., said by phone yesterday from  London . “Not only
this HSBC PMI, but many other figures came out disappointing us
over the past few months. Economists have been reducing their
growth projections this year.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., tumbled 1.6 percent to $34.52,
the biggest decline in eight days. Most U.S. stocks fell
yesterday while the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  was little
changed at 1,460.26 as data from Japan and  Europe  also indicated
that a global economic slowdown is worsening.  Capital Economics’ Forecast  Capital Economics lowered its forecast for China’s 2012
economic expansion to 7.6 percent, from 8 percent at the
beginning of the year, Wang said, adding the real growth rate
may turn out to be slower than the government’s final headline
figure, at about 7 percent. “However, stocks still have a
chance to see a mild rebound by year-end,” he said.  American depositary receipts of China Unicom sank 4.4
percent to $16.25, the biggest drop since June 21. Unicom,
China’s second-largest wireless carrier, added 3.4 million
mobile subscribers in August, from 3.41 million in July, it said
Sept. 19 on its website. Total users of its services increased
3.9 million last month, from 4.2 million in July.  China Telecom, which operates the third-biggest wireless
network in the country, dropped 2.1 percent to $58.98.  China
Mobile Ltd. (941)  retreated 0.9 percent to $54.49.  Melco Crown Drops  China Telecom added 2.5 million mobile subscribers in
August, from a net addition of 2.7 million in the prior month,
according to figures it reported yesterday. That was the slowest
growth since February 2011.  The Chinese economy is going to have a “hard landing,”
hit by its over-reliance on exports and monetary tightening
measures taken in 2010 and 2011, said Gary Shilling, president
of A. Gary Shilling & Co., in an interview with Bloomberg
Television yesterday.  Melco Crown’s ADRs slid 3.4 percent to $12.8, the biggest
loss since July 24. The receipts, each representing three shares
in the company, traded 4.1 percent lower than its  Hong Kong 
stock, the widest discount since July 23.  Sands, one of Melco’s competitors in Macau, the only city
in China where casinos are legal, plans to invest at least $2.5
billion to build the new casino complex, with $1.5 billion in
bank loans, Sands Chief Operating Officer Michael Leven said at
a press briefing yesterday in the city.  Dangdang, Ctrip Slide  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , China’s largest online book
retailer, sank 5.7 percent to $5.14, the steepest slump in two
months. Online travel agency  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) 
retreated 4.7 percent to a three-week low of $17.70, after
jumping 5.6 percent the previous day.  ADRs of  China Life Insurance Co. (LFC) , the nation’s biggest
insurer, dropped 1.7 percent to a one-week low of $43.43.
Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. fell 2.3 percent to $15.18.  The two are among 49 dual-listed Chinese companies found by
the nation’s regulators to have internal control problems. China
Life had defects in managing its sales force and evaluating
software needs, the  Finance Ministry  and the China Securities
Regulatory Commission said in a joint  statement  yesterday.  Due Diligence  Yanzhou failed to conduct due diligence on some investment
projects, while its internal accounting department lacks
adequate staffing and information technology, the ministry and
the commission said in the statement.  The Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  lost 2.1 percent yesterday to
2,024.84, the lowest level since February 2009. The Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong
slid 1.4 percent, the most in two weeks, to 9,707.91.  “Growth has been weaker and for longer than we would have
expected,” Joseph Tanious, a strategist at JPMorgan Funds who
helps oversee $394 billion, said yesterday by phone from New
York. “Yet we’re optimistic that growth will pick up in the
first quarter of 2013 as a result of further fiscal and monetary
easing, and that Chinese stocks, which have been out of favor,
are likely to follow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  