-- UPS Hurt by Manufacturing Slowdown in Asia, Brutto Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-09-20T16:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/ups-affected-by-short-term-economic-headwinds-brutto-says-1-.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  projects
short-term economic headwinds amid a decline in manufacturing
orders in  Asia  while the company pursues a major acquisition in
 Europe , the head of its international division said.  “We’ve seen down-trading at UPS,” Dan Brutto said this
morning at a Bloomberg Government newsmaker breakfast in
Washington. “We’re very bullish in the long term. I think this
is just a cycle.”  Atlanta-based UPS, the world’s largest package-delivery
company, and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  of  Memphis ,  Tennessee , are considered
bellwethers for the economy because they ship goods around the
globe. FedEx shares on Sept. 18 dropped the most in three months
due to shippers switching to cheaper delivery options amid an
economic slowdown.  Despite disputes between  China  and the U.S. at the Geneva-
based  World Trade Organization  in recent months, Brutto said he
did not foresee a trade war between the world’s two largest
economies.  “We’re way too dependent on one another” for a trade war
to occur, he said. “There’s always going to be disputes on
trade.”  European Antitrust  Brutto said UPS sees growth within the European Union, even
as antitrust regulators in Europe scrutinize the company’s  bid
for  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  of Hoofddorp,  Netherlands , a move that may
double UPS’s reach on the continent.  “Intra-Europe trade is still really good,” he said. While
commerce within the 27-member EU is growing, trade in goods
between Europe and Asia has slowed as manufacturing orders have
declined, partly due to slower export growth in China, according
to Brutto.  EU’s competition commissioner, Joqquin Almunia, said today
at a conference in New York that it’s “possible” the Brussels-
based agency may send a so-called statement of objections to UPS
and TNT. Such a complaint would list potential EU concerns over
the transaction. The news caused shares of TNT to fall as much
as 4.7 percent, the most since January.  “It’s too early to tell” whether the EU will require UPS
to make any divestitures as part of the company’s bid for TNT,
Brutto said. By mid-October, EU officials will let the company
know whether they have any objections with the transaction, he
said.  Growth Projection  “We’ve provided all the information that they’ve
requested,” Brutto said. “We feel we have a good case.”  UPS projected 1 percent growth in the  U.S. economy , lower
than the 2.2 percent predicted by analysts, when it announced
earnings for the second quarter on July 24.  The company at the
time also reduced its full-year profit outlook to $4.50 to $4.70
a share, down from an April projection of $4.75 to $5 a share.  Brutto said some customers have expressed concern with what
they said was uncertainty about U.S. fiscal policy.  “Most people don’t know what the rules of the game are,”
he said.  UPS ships goods to Afghanistan, Iraq and Germany through
contracts with the U.S. military, according to Brutto. While the
company has increased its bidding on federal contracts in recent
years, it won’t be seriously affected should U.S. spending cuts
go into effect on Jan. 1, he said.  “The government is a very, very small percentage of our
business,” according to Brutto, who said the share is in the
low-single digits. It’s “not enough to move the needle for
us,” he said.  Brutto said he foresees collaboration between private-
sector packaging companies and the U.S. Postal Service in the
future.  “They have a network, and that network has value,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  