-- BSkyB Gets Ofcom Nod as Murdoch Hacking Response Faulted
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-09-20T12:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/murdoch-s-bskyb-is-cleared-to-keep-u-k-broadcasting-license-1-.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) 
gained approval to keep its broadcast license, a U.K. regulator
ruled, while criticizing board member  James Murdoch ’s reaction
to phone-hacking revelations at News Corp., which owns 39
percent of the country’s biggest pay-TV operator.  “We consider James Murdoch’s conduct, including his
failure to initiate action on his own account on a number of
occasions, to be both difficult to comprehend and ill-judged,”
U.K. media watchdog Ofcom said today. In the wake of the
scandal, News Corp. Deputy Chief Operating Officer James Murdoch
resigned first as chairman of News Corp’s U.K. newspaper arm and
then as chairman of BSkyB.  News Corp. has been trying to move past a hacking scandal
that erupted last year after reports that one of its U.K.
newspapers accessed the voice mail of politicians, celebrities
and a murdered teenager. Ofcom’s decision allows BSkyB to
distance itself from the scandal at  News Corp. (NWSA) , said Claire Enders, chief executive officer of Enders Analysis, which
advises clients including the U.K. government.  “This is a very clear distancing of BSkyB and its
corporate governance from James Murdoch,” she said. “I don’t
think the issues of the alleged behavior, criminal or otherwise,
are going to be going away.”  Dropped Bid  News Corp. was forced to abandon its 7.8 billion-pound
($12.6 billion) bid to take control of Isleworth, England-based
BSkyB last year as British politicians attacked the company’s
fitness amid allegations that its employees had hacked phones
and computers and bribed public officials.  “After a lengthy review process, we are pleased that Ofcom
has now reached its conclusion and we look forward to continuing
to develop our business,” BSkyB said in a statement.  Murdoch, who had previously also been CEO of BSkyB, oversaw
News Corp.’s newspaper group while the company repeatedly denied
that widespread hacking had taken place.  News Corp. said today that while it appreciates the
decision to allow BSkyB to keep its license, allegations that
Murdoch failed in his duties as a director are not backed by
evidence.  “James deserves credit for his role as chief executive,
then chairman and now non-executive director, in leading Sky to
an outstanding record as a broadcaster, including its excellent
compliance record,” News Corp. said.  BSkyB Takeover  Ofcom began examining whether BSkyB was suitable to hold
the licenses last year. Should further relevant evidence become
available in the future, Ofcom would need to consider that
evidence in order to fulfill its duty, it said today.  Still, Ofcom’s interest in News Corp.’s control over BSkyB,
and the potential to reopen the investigation if more evidence
comes to light, could make it more difficult for News Corp. to
make another attempt at buying all of the British pay-TV
operator, said  Claudio Aspesi , a London-based analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein.  The investigations are dragging on, with former News Corp.
executives not slated to go on trial until at least next year.
Police probes into phone hacking and bribery could last for at
least another three years, Metropolitan Police Service deputy
assistant  Sue Akers  said this month.  “Sky can try and will argue that ultimately they should
not be held responsible for what one individual shareholder may
or may not have done, irrespective of the final outcome of the
criminal investigations and trials,” Aspesi said. “There is no
guarantee that it will not view a larger stake in Sky as a
decision to try to take control.”  Digging Deeper  BSkyB rose 1.1 percent to 735 pence in London trading as of
1:21 p.m. News Corp. yesterday gained 1.7 percent to $24.88 in
 New York .  On March 14, James Murdoch told U.K. lawmakers he should
have dug deeper to uncover the phone hacking at News Corp.’s
U.K. publishing unit. Murdoch has since moved out of the U.K. to
News Corp.’s headquarters in New York.  “I could have asked more questions, requested more
documents and taken a more challenging and skeptical view of
what I was told,” Murdoch said at the time.  Murdoch told lawmakers in November that News of the World
Editor Colin Myler failed to tell him in 2008 that phone hacking
at the now-defunct tabloid was common. Myler and the newspaper’s
lawyer Tom Crone have repeatedly insisted that they discussed
evidence with Murdoch and that they told Murdoch in 2008 about
an e-mail that showed phone-hacking was more widespread than
initially assumed.  Saturday E-Mail  Murdoch has said he didn’t read the e-mail, sent on a
Saturday, because he was probably preoccupied with his two small
children at home.  Ofcom said today that “the evidence available to date does
not provide a reasonable basis to find that James Murdoch knew
of widespread wrongdoing or criminality at News of the World”
or that he “was complicit in a cover up.”  A majority of British lawmakers on a committee concluded
earlier this year that News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  was
not “a fit person” to lead a major international company after
News Corp. officials misled Parliament about the extent of phone
hacking at the News of the World. The tabloid paper was closed
because of the scandal.  Murdoch “turned a blind eye and exhibited willful
blindness to what was going on in his companies,” the House of
Commons Culture Committee said in a May report that split
lawmakers along party lines on critical findings.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  