-- Luxury Outlet Malls Boost Simon as Ackman Touts Strength
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-09-20T20:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/luxury-outlet-malls-boost-simon-as-ackman-touts-strength.html
Issa Khalil flew to Seattle last
week to see his favorite football team, the  Dallas Cowboys , play
the Seahawks in their first home game of the season. He included
a side trip: shopping at the Seattle Premium Outlets.  “We researched this place online,” said Khalil, 26, a
Calgary resident who works in the hotel industry and plays in a
men’s soccer league. He, his father and cousin were headed to
Nike Inc.’s store to find shoes and “anything” else with the
athletic-apparel maker’s signature Swoosh.  Shoppers like Khalil are helping to buoy growth for  Simon
Property  Group Inc., which acquired the Seattle Premium Outlets
through its $3.5 billion purchase of Chelsea Property Group in
2004. Luxury outlet malls -- where upscale retailers such as
Coach Inc. and Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. hawk discount goods --
are now the main source of expansion for the Indianapolis-based
real estate investment trust, the country’s largest.  “The purchase of Chelsea by Simon eight years ago was
arguably the best REIT merger ever,” said Cedrik Lachance, a
managing director at real estate research firm Green Street
Advisors Inc. in Newport Beach, California.  “Outlet investing
has been tremendously successful for Simon.”  The discount malls have helped make Simon the best-
performing retail real estate stock of the past five years, and
it’s a business that the No. 2 U.S. mall landlord,  General
Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , doesn’t have. Hedge-fund manager  Bill
Ackman , whose Pershing Square Capital Management LP owns about
10 percent of General Growth, is lobbying for the companies to
combine, even as Simon said last week that it has no interest in
buying its rival.  Economic ‘Resilience’  Outlets were among several factors that Ackman highlighted
in pushing for a deal.  “Simon’s dominant participation in the outlet mall
business, in which GGP has no presence, has proven to be a
retail real estate sector with a high degree of resilience
during periods of economic weakness, and a significant
contributor” to funds from operations, a measure of  cash flow ,
Ackman said in an Aug. 27 letter to General Growth’s board.  In 2004, the year Simon bought Chelsea, General Growth
spent $11.3 billion to buy Rouse Co., an owner of full-price
malls and land for master-planned communities -- a deal Simon
passed up. The purchase was part of an acquisition spree that
saddled Chicago-based General Growth with $27 billion of debt.
When it couldn’t refinance the loans in 2009 the company became
the biggest in real estate to file for bankruptcy.  Brookfield Stake  Simon tried to buy General Growth when it was in
bankruptcy. It lost to a group led by Ackman and Toronto-based
 Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM) , which now owns about 42
percent of the company and said it has no plans to sell its
 stake . General Growth also said it won’t explore a sale.  Simon fell 3 percent to $155.89 today after an offering of
5.9 million shares by a Simon family trust. The sale resulted in
gross proceeds of $943.7 million.  Outlets are about 12.5 percent of the gross leasable space
of Simon’s properties worldwide. They represent about one-third
of the company’s asset value, Lachance said. Simon operates 72
Premium Outlet Centers in 28 states and Puerto Rico, Asia and
Mexico, with plans to open six more in 2013, including its first
in Canada and Brazil.  Premium outlets, which include more red-carpet designers
than conventional outlet stores, have grown by exploiting
consumers’ desire for brand-name fashion and household goods
while meeting retailers’ needs to boost sales and pay lower
rents during a time of sluggish economic growth.  ‘Huge Trend’  “It’s a huge trend,” said Jeremy Moller, a  retail  broker
at JSH Properties Inc. in Seattle. “After the crash, a lot of
retailers realized they could sell only so many $600 bags.”  Discounts vary by retailer and product. At the  Michael Kors 
outlet near Seattle, the popular Hamilton tote sells for $329,
as little as 5 percent less than versions available on the
designer’s website. Other products are more than half off, in
some cases because it’s the end of the season. The Layton
shoulder bag in Kors’s signature “luggage” color, a caramel
brown, sells for $155, down from $368.  Outlet centers are cheaper to build and operate than
traditional malls. Their out-of-the-way locations make them
relatively easy to expand yet near enough to cities to attract
customers. There was about 67.9 million square feet (6.3 million
square meters) of outlet-center space last year, 23 percent more
than a decade earlier, according to data from Value Retail News,
a publication of the  International Council of Shopping Centers .  Little Construction  Construction of traditional malls, primarily near urban
areas, has been dormant because of little space for new
development. Only one enclosed mall has opened in the U.S. since
2006, said Jesse Tron, a spokesman for the ICSC in  New York .  “In terms of green field, or ground-up development, it’s
pretty much all outlet centers,” John Sheehan, an analyst at
 Edward Jones , in  St. Louis , said in a telephone interview.  Simon opened a $142.7 million outlet center in  New
Hampshire  in June and construction has begun on three other
outlet centers, two of which are in partnership with other
developers, according to its latest quarterly report. The
company has budgeted $750 million on U.S. expansion and
redevelopment of existing properties in 2012, compared with $265
million last year.  Woodbury Common  The largest of Simon’s premium outlets by square footage is
Woodbury Common, located north of Manhattan.  Woodbury Common
Premium Outlets  gets about 12 million visitors a year, making it
the No. 1 tourist destination in the state outside of Manhattan,
said Susan Hawvermale, director of tourism for Orange County,
New York, where Woodbury Common is located. The outlet mall gets
more than three times the annual visitors as the Empire State
Building.  “It’s the best outlet in the world,”  David Simon , chief
executive officer of Simon Property, said of Woodbury Common on
an April 27 conference call with analysts. “What we’re thinking
about doing there, working obviously closely with the town, but
assuming we make progress and get some approvals there, I think
we take that asset up to yet another level.”  Les Morris, a spokesman for Simon, declined to comment
further.  Simon stopped breaking out financial results from Premium
Outlets separately from its traditional mall business in 2009.
In that year, the segment contributed 19.7 percent of net
operating income. The company gained 21 more centers when it
bought Prime Outlets Acquisition Co. in 2010 for $2.3 billion.  Stock Gains  Simon has climbed 66 percent in the five years through
yesterday while Greensboro, North Carolina-based  Tanger Factory
Outlet Centers (SKT) , the second-largest U.S. outlet owner, has jumped
63 percent, making them the best performers in Bloomberg’s
regional mall  index . General Growth tumbled 49 percent in that
time.  “For both Simon and Tanger, the number of outlets and the
profitability of outlets have gone up significantly,” said
Stephen Waters, partner at Compass Advisers in New York, who
advised Tanger in its 2005 purchase of a portfolio of outlets
from Blackstone Group LP. “Sales per square foot at the best
outlets are very high and rival those in conventional shopping
malls.”  Heightened Competition  Other companies are trying to take away some of those
sales. Santa Monica, California-based  Macerich Co. (MAC) , which
entered the business last year when it bought Fashion Outlets of
Niagara, is expanding that property and building a second called
Fashion Outlets of  Chicago  that’s set to open in August 2013.
 Glimcher Realty Trust (GRT) , based in Columbus, Ohio, in May announced
a rebranding of its outlets as the “Outlet Collection” that
will include renovations to its Jersey Gardens mall in
Elizabeth,  New Jersey , and redevelopment of its SuperMall in
Auburn, Washington.  “Simon and Tanger are the very, very clear leaders in that
category,” said  Rich Moore , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets 
in Solon, Ohio.  They will have the “majority of that business
over the next five years,” he said.  For retailers, discount malls are a way to lure consumers
after the recession. Nike, based in Beaverton, Oregon, had 464
factory outlets in operation as of the end of May, out of 557
total branded stores, according to its annual report.  Michael Kors, which opened its first outlet in 2005 in
Woodbury Common, now has 85 outlet stores, compared with 168
regular stores. Coach, the New York-based leather-goods maker,
expects to open at least 30 North American stores in fiscal
2013, and at least 20 of those will be factory outlets, Chairman
and CEO Lew Frankfort said on a July 31 earnings conference
call.  Demand was on display last weekend at the Seattle outlets,
where dozens queued outside the Coach store, prompting clerks to
stagger entry. Workers handed out coupons for an additional 30
percent off to people waiting to join the throng inside snapping
up handbags and key fobs.  “The reason it’s important to Simon is because it’s
important to retailers,” Sheehan, the Edward Jones analyst,
said of the outlet business. “They want to satisfy the
demand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  