-- Valeant Selling $2.25 Billion in Bonds to Finance Acquisitions
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-09-20T16:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/valeant-selling-2-25-billion-in-bonds-to-finance-acquisitions.html
Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International Inc. (VRX)  is raising $2.25 billion in a two-part bond
offering to help finance its takeover of skin-care maker  Medicis
Pharmaceutical Corp. (MRX)   Canada’s largest publicly traded drugmaker intends to sell
$1.75 billion of senior unsecured notes to fund the Medicis deal
and $500 million of bonds for general corporate purposes
including potential acquisitions, the Montreal-based company
said yesterday in a press release. Both portions will mature in
eight years and may yield 6.375 percent, according to a person
familiar with the offering who asked not to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  While the $2.6 billion Medicis takeover is strategically
“a terrific acquisition” for Valeant, the increased leverage
and appetite for more deals hurts the company’s credit profile,
according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  The added debt may boost Valeant’s
ratio of total debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization to 6.7 times this year, Mark McCabe of KDP Investment Advisors Inc. wrote today in a report.
That compares with 5.7 times as of June 30.  “We don’t believe deleveraging will be a major priority,”
Chicago-based Morningstar said a report yesterday that
downgraded Valeant one level to BB.  Valeant,  ranked  three levels below investment grade at Ba3
by Moody’s Investors Service and a level higher at BB by
 Standard & Poor’s , is offering the notes as yields on junk debt
dropped to the lowest ever.  Average yields  on U.S. speculative-
grade corporate bonds fell to an unprecedented 6.95 percent
yesterday, according to Bank of American Merrill Lynch index
data. The gauge was 8.54 percent at year-end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  