-- Wall Street Critic Pawlenty to Head Financial Services Lobby
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-09-20T22:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/wall-street-critic-pawlenty-to-head-financial-services-lobby-1-.html
Tim Pawlenty , the former Republican
governor of Minnesota who criticized  Wall Street  while running
for president last year, is joining the Financial Services
Roundtable as president and chief executive officer.  Pawlenty, 51, will take over from the retiring  Steve Bartlett  as CEO of the Washington-based group that represents
100 of the biggest financial-services companies, including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America. Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
The new job means quitting his post as national co-chairman of
 Mitt Romney ’s presidential campaign, Pawlenty said today.  In a Bloomberg Television interview last year before he
ended his presidential run and joined Romney’s campaign,
Pawlenty said his “truth message to Wall Street is going to be,
‘Get your snout out of the trough’.” He was viewed as a
potential Romney running mate before the former Massachusetts
governor selected Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin.  “Obviously, I was one of the voices saying we need to fix
the problems,” Pawlenty said in an interview today. “There’s
been an attempt to fix them. Now we just need to make sure they
don’t overreach and stifle economic investment and job growth.”  Pawlenty, who campaigned as a “Sam’s Club Republican”
concerned with issues affecting the middle class, will represent
the interests of the large financial firms across a broad range
of business, from insurance giants such as State Farm Insurance
Cos. and money managers including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  to payment
networks like  Visa Inc. (V)   He informed the Romney campaign in the last few days that
he’d be stepping down, he said.  ‘Terrific Opportunity’  “My role with the campaign was as a volunteer, so I didn’t
have any official day-to-day responsibility,” Pawlenty told
reporters today in  Washington . “They were very gracious and
said it’s a terrific opportunity, understood the need to make a
career decision.”  In a statement, Romney called Pawlenty a “dear friend”
who brought “energy, intelligence and tireless dedication to
every enterprise in which he’s ever been engaged.”  “While I regret he cannot continue as co-chair of my
campaign, his new position advancing the integrity of our
financial system is vital to the future of our country,” Romney
said in the statement.  Pawlenty, who begins work in his new job Nov. 1, joins the
trade group as it works to influence implementation of the Dodd-
Frank Act, the 2010 law enacted in response to the 2008 credit
crisis.  ‘Refining’ Dodd-Frank  “We went through a big crisis, had a big reform take
place,” Pawlenty said in the interview today, adding that the
job now is to insist the changes don’t discourage capital
deployment and employment growth. “It’s not a question of
repealing Dodd-Frank. It’s a question of refining it,” he said.  Tom Wilson, the  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  CEO who serves as chairman
of the roundtable, lauded Pawlenty in the group’s statement as a
highly successful chief executive who will create win-win
solutions and push for firm-but-fair regulation.  “He has a very solid reputation, and the industry
obviously has a lot of issues and is recovering from some
difficult times,” said Ed Yingling, a past head of the  American
Bankers Association  who is a lawyer at Covington & Burling LLP
in Washington. “It’s very good to have someone out there who’s
well known and has a lot of credibility.”  He may also receive a substantial raise. Bartlett was paid
$1.8 million in 2010, according to the group’s IRS filings for
that year. Pawlenty’s most recent salary as governor was
$121,000, according to a 2011 financial filing for his
presidential bid. Scott Talbott, a senior vice president of
public policy at the Financial Services Roundtable, declined to
share Pawlenty’s salary information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  