-- Warm Autumn May Persist Into Winter for Northeast
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-09-20T16:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/warm-autumn-may-persist-into-winter-for-northeast.html
Temperatures across the Midwest and
Northeast are expected to be above normal through December, and
if they remain even near average 2012 will be the warmest year
on record in the U.S.  Most of the lower 48 states from the  Rocky Mountains  to the
U.S. East Coast, with the exception of the Deep South and West
Coast, may have higher-than-normal temperatures through year’s
end, according to the  U.S. Climate Prediction Center  in  College
Park ,  Maryland .  The arrival of a weak El Nino, a warming of the central
 Pacific Ocean , later this year may also raise the chances that
warmer conditions carry over into the winter season, said Huug
van den Dool, seasonal forecaster at the center.  “I won’t say it will be as extreme as last year,” van den
Dool said during a conference call with reporters. “Chances are
it will be above normal because that is the long-term trend.”  Increased production coupled with warmer-than-normal
weather last winter helped push natural gas prices to a 10-year
low in the U.S. and by April made it the worst performer on
Standard & Poor’s GSCI commodity index.  Temperatures during the 2011-2012 heating season, from
October through March, were 3.8 degrees above average, making it
the second-warmest level for the period on record after 1999-
2000, according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration .  Warm Start  The first eight months of 2012 the warmest for the U.S. on
records going back to 1895, and the period was among the 10
warmest for 33 states, according to the climate center. Even if
temperatures remain near average from September through
December, “2012 will be the warmest year on record,” said Jake
Crouch, climate scientist at the  National Climatic Data Center .  In addition to issuing the seasonal outlook, NOAA
scientists today also reported Arctic sea ice has reached its
lowest level since 1979, when continuous satellite coverage of
the  North Pole  became possible.  While Arctic ice reaches its lowest extent in September,
the decrease in area had already broken the old record, set in
2007, last month, said Walt Meier, research scientist at the
 National Snow and Ice Data Center  at the  University of Colorado ,
Boulder.  Meier said the loss of the ice cap may have larger climate
implications because the polar regions dissipate heat that
gathers at the equator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  