-- Warren Senate Campaign Gets Boston Boost With Menino Endorsement
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-09-20T15:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/warren-senate-campaign-gets-boston-boost-with-menino-endorsement.html
Boston’s Thomas M. Menino, the
longest-serving big-city mayor in the U.S., will end months of
fence-sitting by formally endorsing fellow Democrat  Elizabeth Warren  for the  U.S. Senate .  Menino will endorse Warren tomorrow at a rally in Boston,
according to Boston Globe and Boston Herald reports that cited
people who knew of the plan. Dorothy Joyce, a spokeswoman for
Menino, didn’t immediately return a call and e-mail seeking
comment. The mayor’s backing for the Massachusetts candidate may
prove crucial Nov. 6 as recent polls show Warren, a professor at
 Harvard Law School , running neck and neck with Senator  Scott Brown , a Republican elected in 2010 with Tea Party support. The
two debate tonight.  “The difference on Election Day is likely to be turnout,”
Jeffrey Berry, who teaches politics at  Tufts University , said in
an interview. “The difference is how much pressure he will put
on local precinct captains to get the vote out.”  Menino, who has ruled the state’s biggest city since 1993,
is a power broker who can deliver Boston votes, Berry said from
the school in Medford, Massachusetts. The mayor previously
raised questions about his own motives by telling reporters that
Brown is an “amicable guy” who would be “hard to beat.”  Crossing Lines  Brown is no stranger to winning elections in a state
dominated by Democrats. He was a Massachusetts lawmaker when he
won a special election to fill out the last term of Democrat  Ted
Kennedy , who died in office in 2009, and has kept his distance
from national Republicans. Now he’s appealing to voters across
party lines, including featuring President  Barack Obama  in
advertisements. His campaign has also touted endorsements from
Democrats such as former Boston Mayor Ray Flynn.  Warren, an Oklahoma native in her first campaign for public
office, is trying to energize Democrats and independents by
stressing her credentials as a consumer advocate and attacking
 Wall Street , big banks and their lobbyists in Washington. She
helped design and set up Obama’s Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, and won the president’s endorsement for the Senate. Two-
term Governor  Deval Patrick , a Democrat, has also backed her.
Yet it’s Menino’s ground operation she needs.  Boston’s Big  The mayor took office in 1993 and became the longest-
serving  Boston  mayor when he was re-elected in 2009 with 57
percent of the vote. Boston, with about 625,100 residents last
year, accounts for about 9.5 percent of the state’s population
of about 6.6 million.  The mayor withheld his endorsement as Warren’s campaign to
unseat Brown gathered intensity earlier this year. While both
Menino and Warren were among the featured speakers at this
month’s Democratic National Convention in Charlotte, North
Carolina, he shunned the chance to back her Senate bid before a
nationwide audience.  Warren has drawn much of her financial support from outside
the state. By mid-August, she had raised more than $28.2 million
to Brown’s $19.5 million, according to the nonpartisan Center
for Responsive Politics, a research group in Washington.  Getting out the vote in a city the size of Boston requires
more than money, however. Menino has proved his organization’s
power time and again, most recently in November 2011 when he
mobilized his forces to deny former Councilor-at-Large Michael
Flaherty a chance to regain his seat on the City Council.
Flaherty had challenged Menino’s re-election in 2009.  “It’s not just his endorsement,”  John Walsh , the chairman
of the Massachusetts Democratic Party, said in an interview
before Menino made his announcement. “It’s the work he puts in.
That is really a piece of the calculation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  