-- Web Surfers Using Apps Secretly Boost Economy: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-09-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/web-surfers-using-apps-secretly-boost-economy-cutting-research.html
Traditional measures of household
spending no longer reflect the vagaries of consuming in the
digital age.  Deutsche Bank AG’s Sanjeev Sanyal found that the time
people spend online isn’t being captured in the consumption
basket, a term for how a household divides its spending between
goods such as food and services such as transportation.  “I may use  Google (GOOG) , YouTube,  Facebook (FB)  and Twitter all day,
but it will not show up as consumption because I have not
’spent’ any money on it in the conventional sense,” Sanyal, a
Singapore-based global strategist, said in a Sept. 17 report.
“However, one can hardly ignore these activities given that
several large businesses derive their success directly from
these new forms of consumer behavior.”  Transportation may also be affected by technological
advances. In the U.K. the number of trips away from home has
declined 10 percent since the late 1990s, reflecting a shift
toward a “communication-based lifestyle,” Sanyal wrote. Young
Americans also seem less inclined to own a car than their
parents: The proportion of 17-year-olds holding a driver’s
license dropped to 50 percent in 2008 from 69 percent in 1983.  Embracing technology is also not just for the young, Sanyal
said. Consumers in the 35-44 age bracket were just as likely to
switch to a smartphone as those 18-24. The older group accounted
for 25 percent of big users of games and other apps, versus 19
percent for the younger enthusiasts.  “Consumers in their 30s and 40s can be just as
enthusiastic about new technologies and it is possible that as
this cohort ages, they will take their enthusiasm to ever higher
age brackets,” said Sanyal. “In turn, these changing tastes
and lifestyles have important implications for the producers of
virtually every product ranging from cars and household gadgets
to entertainment and real estate.”  * * *  Interest rates  can’t go lower than zero -- or can they?  Central banks dealing with rock-bottom interest rates can
still show their stance of monetary policy and its effect on
bond yields, thanks to a study published this month by the
 Reserve Bank  of  New Zealand .  Using debt market data, economist Leo Krippner created a
“shadow policy rate” that quantifies borrowing costs when a
country’s official benchmark has dropped toward zero and a
central bank is forced to adopt other measures to ease monetary
policy.  “That shadow policy rate therefore provides a gauge of the
monetary policy stance after the actual policy rate reaches
zero,” he wrote.  In the case of the  Federal Reserve , the shadow federal
funds rate turned negative in late 2008 and reached almost minus
10 percent in 2011, Krippner found. While the shadow rate shows
the level and change in the stance of monetary policy, economic
stimulus is more powerful when the rate is being reduced from a
positive level than a negative level, he said.  * * *  Latin America  is well positioned to become the breadbasket
of the world.  That’s the forecast of four analysts from HSBC Holdings Plc
who, in a study published this month, detailed the boom in
global grain consumption, especially in  Asia , that’s come as
incomes increase, meat consumption rises and renewable-fuels use
grows. Average grain surpluses of the past 25 years were only
0.2 percent of consumption, versus 1.5 percent in the previous
quarter-century. The average price of a ton of grains jumped to
$250 in the past decade from about $100-$150 in the prior 30
years, they said.  That’s positive news for Latin America, which has the
resources to meet the growing need and whose role as an
“agricultural powerhouse” could grow even further, the
analysts said.  South America  already accounts for 41 percent of
exports of global grains, up from 7 percent 50 years ago.  In the past half century, South America’s planted acreage
had a compound annual growth rate for investment of 2.4 percent
versus 0.6 percent globally, the analysts said. The region is
also home to 28 percent of the world’s uncultivated land
suitable for agriculture with about three-quarters of that
situated within six hours of markets.  The Pampas region of Argentina is one of the most fertile
agricultural areas of the world, while  Brazil  is the only large
country with low population density and high precipitation
levels, they said.  Such supply potential is needed to meet increased demand
from Asia, where “economies are strong, urbanization continues
and planted acreage is falling, while meat consumption is
growing,” the report said.  That burgeoning relationship will speed what HSBC calls the
“Southern Silk Road” in which  emerging markets  increasingly
trade with each other, the analysts wrote. Standing to benefit
from the trend are companies such as Brazilian ethanol producer
 Cosan SA Industria E Comercio (CSAN3)  and  Adecoagro SA (AGRO)  of Argentina,
they said.  * * *  Modern investment patterns have historical echoes,
according to a study published by the  European Central Bank  this
week and co-authored by  Barry Eichengreen  of the  University of
California , Berkeley.  In an attempt to map the geography of international
finance, Eichengreen, alongside Livia Chitu and Arnaud Mehl of
the ECB, documented a ‘history effect” in which U.S. holdings
of foreign bonds in 88 countries seven decades ago help explain
today’s financial allocations.  The result is that as much as 15 percent of American
holdings of foreign bonds is explained by those in the middle of
the 20th century.  That possibly reflects the fixed costs of entering and
exiting markets, such as due diligence and promoting the assets
to investors. The effect is twice as large if the bonds aren’t
denominated in dollars, implying even higher fixed costs of
trading those, the authors wrote.  * * *  The euro-area’s expansion since the 2008-2009 recession has
proved “exceptionally slow and bumpy’ when compared with five
historical financial crises, thanks to the region’s debt crisis.  Marco Valli, chief euro-region economist at UniCredit
Global Research in Milan, used International Monetary Fund data
to suggest five slumps linked to financial crises were
particularly costly:  Spain ’s in the late 1970s, those of Norway,
Sweden and Finland in the late 1980s and Japan’s in the early
1990s.  There are similarities with the euro area’s recent
experience, Valli said in a Sept. 18 report. The decline in
gross domestic product from its peak was about 5 percent in both
the bloc and the “big five,” while the duration of recession
was five quarters and seven quarters respectively.  The difference is that the euro countries’ recovery to
date has left GDP still 2.4 percent below its pre-crisis peak.
That suggests it will take to the first half of 2015, or six
years, to recover all the lost output. In the past, the five
countries studied recouped the GDP they had shed in six to seven
quarters.  * * *  There may be a gender gap in the views of three
professional economists -- two of them women.  A study by economists at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln
and  Wake Forest University  that was based on a survey of members
of the American Economic Association found women economists are
more likely than men to favor government intervention over
market solutions. They also are more inclined to prefer policies
aimed at redistributing income. The average male economist sees
 government regulation  as more excessive and is more likely to
support cutting trade tariffs.  “We wanted to learn if it would make any difference if men
or women were at the table when economic policies were debated
and alternatives considered,” said  Ann Mari May , professor of
economics in Lincoln,  Nebraska  and the study’s lead author.
“These results suggest that the answer to that question is a
clear and definitive yes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 