-- Wheelchair Held Hostage as Movers Said to Bilk Customers
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-09-20T16:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/web-moving-companies-evade-rules-to-bilk-customers-senate-finds.html
U.S. consumers are increasingly
victims of moving and storage fraud, with their furniture and
valuables held hostage by companies demanding thousands of
dollars in extra fees, a Senate investigation found.  Internet-based moving brokers and carriers often provide a
price quote without visiting a home to estimate a move’s real
cost, and later demand exorbitant markups before delivering the
goods, according to a  Senate Commerce Committee  report released
in connection with a hearing today in Washington.  “These sketchy companies routinely jack up the price after
they load customers’ goods onto their trucks,” Commerce
Committee Chairman  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat,
said. “It’s extortion.”  The instances identified by the committee investigation
amount to criminal activity, Rockefeller said. “It’s when
people go to jail that the signal gets delivered to the
industry,” he said.  Probes by the U.S. Department of Transportation’s inspector
general “have shown that the dishonest broker, with full
knowledge, provides customers a low-ball estimate knowing the
carrier will grossly inflate it once the goods are loaded,”
Timothy Barry, principal assistant inspector general for
investigations, said in  written testimony .  Low-Ball Estimate  In one example described at the hearing, an elderly couple
moving from  Colorado  to  Nevada  was provided a $1,340 estimate,
then charged $7,400. While the couple’s goods were being held,
the customer asked the company to release his wife’s wheelchair.  The mover refused to give back the wheelchair or any other
property, Barry said. The company owner was later found to be
using the couple’s computer and flat-screen television, he said.  Reana Kovalcik, a 28-year-old  New York  City resident, told
lawmakers that an Internet broker’s $898 price mushroomed to
$2,434 after her move from  Chicago . After months of negotiation,
she paid the extra fees in return for a key to a storage unit in
 New Jersey . Sentimental items were gone, and about $10,000 worth
of her goods were stolen, missing or damaged, she said.  The inspector general has 14 open investigations involving
companies operating under 108 names, Barry said. That covers
more than 3,800 potential victims and about $1.9 million in
damages, he said.  Inadequate Oversight  Lack of adequate oversight is one factor in the growing
number of abuses, according to the committee. Until 1995, moving
was regulated by the Interstate Commerce Commission, which no
longer exists. Today, it’s overseen by the Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Administration, where the main mission is to reduce
fatalities from truck and bus crashes.  The ICC had more than 100 inspectors dedicated to
household-goods movers, while the FMCSA has 10, said Linda Bauer Darr, president and chief executive officer of the American
Moving and Storage Association, which unsuccessfully sought more
money for investigation and enforcement in the two-year highway
bill Congress passed earlier this year.  There are 7,000 companies operating in the industry,
completing about 800,000 moves a year, said Darr, whose group
represents companies including Allied Van Lines Inc. and United
Van Lines LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in  Washington  at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  