-- Tiger Woods Tied With Rose for Lead at Golf’s Tour Championship
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-09-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/woods-trails-leader-rose-by-one-shot-at-golf-s-tour-championship.html
Tiger Woods  is tied with  Justin Rose  entering today’s second round of the Tour Championship, the
final event of golf’s U.S. PGA Tour season.  Woods, who is seeking to win the FedEx Cup for the third
time, and Rose are one shot ahead of Americans Scott Piercy, Bo Van Pelt,  Matt Kuchar  and  Steve Stricker  at Atlanta’s East Lake
Golf Club.  Woods missed a chance to take the lead at 5 under when his
17-foot birdie putt on the par-4 17th hole yesterday caught the
left edge of the cup and failed to drop in.  “I played well,” Woods told reporters. “I probably could
have gotten a couple more out of it. I hit a couple of really
good putts that lipped out. Other than that, it was a really
good day.”  The tournament caps a four-event playoff series and awards
a $10 million bonus to the FedEx Cup points champion in addition
to the $1.4 million tournament winner’s share.  Rory McIlroy, a 23-year-old Northern Irishman who has won
three of his past four U.S. tournaments, including the  PGA
Championship , leads the points standings coming into the event.
McIlroy, who is paired with Woods for the third time in the past
five weeks, is three shots back at 1 under.  “You figure the top players are going to gravitate toward
the top of the points list and hence, you’re going to have these
type of pairings throughout the playoffs,” Woods said.  “It’s
worked out the way that our tour wanted it to work out.”  Rose, a 32-year-old Englishman who is 16th in the FedEx Cup
standings, finished his round of 4-under 66 with a 52-foot
birdie putt on the 18th hole, his sixth birdie of the day.  “I’m beginning to get some confidence with the putter,”
Rose said. “So it was nice to get out with a hot start.”  Woods-McIlroy Duel  It’s the first time McIlroy has played in the Tour
Championship, while Woods’s record at the event includes a win
and three runner-up finishes in his past four appearances.  McIlroy holds the edge over Woods in their head-to-head
meetings, scoring lower than Woods 14 of 20 times they have been
in the same field in U.S. and European Tour events the past two
years. In 44 combined appearances together, McIlroy has topped
Woods 23 times and won five of those events, compared with three
titles for Woods.  Woods has won three times on the U.S. tour this year. His
victories at the Arnold Palmer Invitational, Memorial Tournament
and the AT&T National had him positioned for Player of the Year
honors until McIlroy secured his second career major title with
an eight-shot win at the PGA Championship last month and
followed it with back-to-back playoff victories in Boston and
 Indiana .  “It’s a great atmosphere,” McIlroy said of the season-
ending tournament. “It’s a great buzz, and wish I could have
shot a couple shots better. But I’m in a good position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  