-- Yankees Sweep Blue Jays to Take Sole Possession of AL East Lead
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-09-20T05:59:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/yankees-sweep-blue-jays-to-take-sole-possession-of-al-east-lead.html
The  New York Yankees  swept the
 Toronto Blue Jays  in a doubleheader to take a half-game lead in
the American League East division over the  Baltimore Orioles ,
who defeated the  Seattle Mariners  in extra innings.  The Yankees (85-63) defeated the Blue Jays 2-1 last night
after winning the first game 4-2. The Orioles, who needed 18
innings to beat the Mariners 4-2 two nights ago, won 3-1 in 11
innings last night. Baltimore (85-64) and the Oakland Athletics
(84-64), who lost 6-2 to the Detroit Tigers yesterday, lead the
race for the AL’s two wild-card berths.  Ichiro Suzuki, who was 7-for-8 in yesterday’s two games,
hit a run-scoring single in eighth inning to give the Yankees
the win in the night game at Yankee Stadium.  “I don’t know if you ever imagine a guy going 7-for-8 in a
day,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said. “He’s just a heads-up
player and you saw a lot of it today.”  During the night game, Adeiny Hechavarria hit a run-scoring
single in the second inning to give the Blue Jays a 1-0 lead.
Chris Stewart’s ground-rule double in the bottom of the second
scored Casey McGehee.  Curtis Granderson  scored the winning run
on the single by Suzuki, who stole four of the Yankees’ season-
high seven bases.  Orioles Win  Cody Eppley  got the win to improve to 1-2 and  Rafael Soriano  struck out one in the ninth as he got his 42nd save.  At Safeco Field in Seattle,  Adam Jones  hit a two-run homer
in the 11th inning to give the Orioles a three-game sweep of the
Mariners (70-80).  Chris Davis scored on  Mark Reynolds ’s single in the fourth
to give the Orioles the lead and Franklin Gutierrez tied it with
a home run in the bottom of the inning.  “It’s just a bunch of grinders,” Oriole closer Jim Johnson said after earning his 45th save. “These guys never
give up.”  Luis Ayala (4-5) got the win, pitching one-third inning for
the Orioles. Josh Kinney (0-3) allowed two runs on two hits in
one inning for the loss.  In the afternoon game at Yankee Stadium,  Andy Pettitte 
threw five shutout innings in his first start in 85 days for the
Yankees. Pettitte, 40, allowed four hits and three walks on 75
pitches.  Trailing 3-0 in the top of the eighth, the Blue Jays scored
twice and loaded the bases before New York closer Soriano
induced a line drive to left field. Suzuki ran in and caught the
ball, cradling it against his chest as he rolled to the ground
to end the inning.  Pettitte hadn’t pitched since June 27, when a line drive
broke his left ankle. He was given a 3-0 lead in the first
inning and struck out three before leaving when he reached his
pitch limit.  Both Blue Jays runs were charged to  David Robertson , who
allowed four hits in two-thirds of an inning. Soriano recorded
the final four outs for his 41st save of the season.  The Yankees, who held a 10-game divisional lead on July 18,
haven’t ended a day out of first place since June 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  