-- Won Leads Drop in Asian Currencies on Global Growth Concern
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-09-20T09:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-20/yuan-leads-gains-in-asia-on-stimulus-u-s-home-sales-report.html
South Korea’s won led declines in
Asian currencies as data from Japan and China heightened concern
the global economic slowdown is worsening.  A preliminary reading for a Chinese manufacturing survey
pointed to an 11th month of contraction and Japanese exports
fell in August for a third month, reports released today showed.
The  Bank of Japan  expanded its asset-purchase fund yesterday by
10 trillion yen ($128 billion), joining the  Federal Reserve  and
the  European Central Bank  in announcing plans to pump money into
financial markets.  “With shares and other currencies falling on economic
concerns, we saw a lot of overseas investors covering their
short positions on the dollar,” said Lee Jin Ill, a Seoul-based
currency trader at Hana Bank. A short position is a bet an asset
will decline in value.  The won dropped 0.8 percent to 1,123.15 per dollar in Seoul,
the biggest decline since July 12, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. India’s rupee weakened 0.6 percent to 54.3050,
Taiwan’s dollar slid 0.4 percent to NT$29.508 and the Philippine
peso fell 0.3 percent to 41.765.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, fell 0.1
percent, reversing an earlier gain. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
of shares dropped 1.3 percent, the most in more than eight weeks.  Indian Political Spat  The rupee weakened the most in more than a month after the
Trinamool Congress party, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
biggest coalition partner, said it will quit the government over
policy changes announced last week.  Trinamool ministers will be pulled from the federal cabinet
on Sept. 21, party leader  Mamata Banerjee  said on Sept. 18,
signaling there’s still time for a compromise. Singh unveiled
the biggest policy push of his second term last week by ending a
14-month freeze on diesel prices to cut the  budget deficit , and
allowing more foreign investment in aviation and retail
industries.  “The Indian reforms are still work in progress and there
are some concerns as to whether politics will come in the way,”
said Thio Chin Loo, a senior analyst at BNP Paribas SA in
Singapore. “The markets are worried about the possibility of a
rollback.”  The ringgit fell to the lowest level this week, reversing
an earlier gain, on the manufacturing report from China, the
second-largest buyer of Malaysian goods in July. Beijing should
make all preparations for its territorial dispute with Japan
over islands in the  East China Sea , including for military
conflict, Wang Xiaoxuan, director of the Naval Research
Institute of the  People’s Liberation Army , wrote in the China
Daily newspaper today.  Yuan Strengthens  “The China numbers were very disappointing and I am very
much pricing in a hard landing for the Chinese economy,” said
Suresh Kumar Ramanathan, a currency strategist at CIMB
Investment Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “The geopolitical risks
surrounding the Japanese-Chinese spat are pushing the move in
the ringgit.”  The  yuan  advanced beyond the key 6.3 per dollar level as
the central bank set the  reference rate  0.02 percent stronger at
6.3380. The currency, which can trade as much as 1 percent on
either side of the daily fixing, touched 6.2945, the strongest
level since April 17. It closed up 0.09 percent at 6.3038.  “With quantitative easing in the major economies, funds
are flowing into Asia, and China is among the top
destinations,” said Kenix Lai, a foreign-exchange analyst at
Bank of East Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “The upside above the 6.3
level is limited as exporters are still facing great pressure.”  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah fell 0.2 percent to 9,570 per
dollar. Thailand’s baht weakened 0.4 percent to 30.90, while
Vietnam’s dong was little changed at 20,870.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  