-- Abortion Fight Grows to Cities as Albuquerque Vetos Limit
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-11-20T06:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/abortion-fight-grows-to-cities-as-albuquerque-vetos-limit.html
Albuquerque  became the first U.S.
city to reject a ballot measure to ban abortions after 20 weeks,
delivering a blow to opponents of the procedure who had hoped to
expand their fight beyond courts and state legislatures.  Residents of New Mexico’s largest city voted 55 percent to
45 percent  against  setting the first municipal-level abortion
restrictions on doctors, in a bid to shut down a local clinic.  “You can pretty much expect to see these kinds of direct
legislative initiatives popping up on a municipal level all over
the country,” Cheryl Sullenger, senior policy adviser at
Operation Rescue, a Wichita, Kansas-based anti-abortion group,
said before the results were known. “This could be a winning
strategy for us.”  Creating a new battleground in cities would give abortion-rights opponents another tool in their efforts to close clinics
performing the procedure legalized nationally in the  Supreme
Court ’s landmark 1973 Roe v. Wade decision. The court in 1992
upheld the constitutional right to an abortion before the fetus
is capable of living outside the womb, which is generally
considered to begin at about 24 weeks.  The strategy to offer a municipal ballot measure in
Albuquerque, a city of about 555,000, was embraced because the
New Mexico legislature, which is controlled by Democrats, hasn’t
acted on bills to restrict abortions, Sullenger said.  “Year after year, pro-life legislation gets introduced and
it dies in committee,” she said.  The ballot-measure approach is a way to circumvent the
legislature to restrict abortion access, said Elizabeth Nash,
state issues manager at the Guttmacher Institute, a New York-based reproductive-health research organization.  Targeted Clinic  The Albuquerque clinic, called Southwestern Women’s
Options, performs abortions through 28 weeks, according to its
 website . Other clinics performing abortions in the third
trimester are located in Boulder,  Colorado , and Germantown,
 Maryland .  “We know there are very few providers who perform
abortions at this point in gestation,” Nash said. “This is a
very targeted attack on them.”  The procedure is very rare, with only 1.5 percent of
abortions performed at 20 weeks or later, Nash said.  At least 10 states have passed laws since 2010 banning
abortions after the 20th week of pregnancy.  The Albuquerque measure drew protesters to polling places
and “brought a heightened emotional element to the election
process for some people,” Amy Bailey, Albuquerque’s city clerk,
said in an interview.  Early Interest  Almost 44,000 city residents came to the polls to weigh in
on the measure during early voting from Oct. 30 through Nov. 15,
compared with the roughly 26,000 who voted early in the mayoral
election last month, Bailey said.  The citizen initiative is a “very rarely used part of the
city charter,” Bailey said. It was used last year for the first
time in seven years to approve a minimum wage increase, she
said.  Even if approved, the Albuquerque measure “would not be
legally enforceable,” Gary King,  New Mexico ’s attorney general
wrote in an Oct. 9 letter to Trudy Jones, an Albuquerque city
council member.  He pointed to recent cases in which federal courts struck
down statutes passed by  Idaho ,  Arizona ,  Arkansas  and  North
Dakota  that were similar or identical to the Albuquerque
proposal. The basis for the decisions was rooted in Roe v. Wade,
he said.  ‘Overwhelming Weight’  The cases “show that the overwhelming weight of judicial
authority doesn’t support enactments, like the proposed
Albuquerque ordinance, that attempt to ban otherwise legal
abortions,” King wrote.  In states like  California , which has a law protecting
women’s access to abortion pre-viability, a locality couldn’t
pass a more restrictive standard because it would conflict with
the state law, said Maya Manian, a law professor at the
University of  San Francisco .  New Mexico doesn’t have such a law, according to Nash.  “You would still have a problem with federal
constitutional law” under Roe v. Wade, Manian said. The
supremacy clause of the U.S. Constitution says federal law
trumps conflicting state and local law.  “If voters approve this ban, it could be challenged in
court,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  