-- American Indian Origins Complicated by Ancient Boy’s DNA
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-11-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/american-indian-origins-complicated-by-ancient-boy-s-dna.html
American Indians may have a more
complex pool of ancestors than scientists once thought,
according to a 24,000-year-old  arm bone  found in Siberia.  A DNA sample from the bone showed it belonged to a boy who
was more closely related to American Indians and people living
today in  Europe  and Western  Asia  than to East Asians, according
to  a paper  published yesterday in the journal Nature.  The finding may mean that American Indians have European
genes that predate  Christopher Columbus  and subsequent western
migrations to the Americas. Most experts have thought that
American Indians came from east Asia, so another set of
ancestors may need to be accounted for, said  Joshua Akey , who
specializes in evolutionary genomics at the  University of
Washington  School of Medicine in  Seattle .  “There’s been enormous controversy in the origins and
ancestry of Native American populations,” Akey, who wasn’t
involved in the research, said in a telephone interview. “This
study suggests a much more complicated and rich history than
previously imagined.”  About 14 percent to 38 percent of American Indian ancestry
may have originated from the population to which the Siberian
boy belonged, according to the report. In fact, when the
researchers mapped the bone’s genes, they suggested that all 48
modern American Indian populations were equally related to the
boy’s sample.  The finding may also explain why skulls from early American
Indian groups have characteristics that don’t fit with East
Asian ancestry, wrote the researchers, led by Eske Willerslev of
the University of Copenhagen.  Sex Chromosome  The boy’s DNA, from what may be the oldest modern human
genome to date, was closest to the hunter-gatherers of the Late
Stone Age, from 50,000 to 10,000 years ago. The Y chromosome,
the sex chromosome present in men, belongs to an ancestry that
predates modern western Eurasians, the study found. There was no
close relationship between the sample and modern east Asians.  A second DNA sample, from a 17,000-year-old arm bone also
found in Siberia, showed similarities to the older DNA, though
it was less reliable, as the genetic material had been
contaminated by present-day DNA, the researchers said.  The site where the 24,000-year-old young male’s bones were
found is called  Mal’ta , for a nearby village in south-central
Siberia. The area may be the oldest in Siberia, and was
excavated from 1928 to 1958, the authors wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  