-- Maple Leaf Said to Draw Bids for Bread Unit
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k
-- 2013-11-20T22:04:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/maple-leaf-said-to-draw-bids-for-bread-unit.html
Maple Leaf Foods Inc. (MFI) , the Canadian
producer of foods from hamburgers to frozen pasta, has drawn
bids for its bread unit from Grupo Bimbo SAB,  Flowers Foods Inc. (FLO) 
and several private-equity firms, three people with knowledge of
the matter said.  The Toronto-based food producer, which owns 90 percent of
 Canada Bread Co. (CBY) , said in October it would explore options for
the stake, including a possible sale as it divests assets to
focus on its meat business. With several suitors evaluating the
company, a sale is looking more likely, said one of the people,
who asked not to be named because the talks are private. Maple
Leaf hired Centerview Partners LLC and Royal Bank of Canada to
look for buyers, the people said.  “Those are the two most logical buyers of the asset and I
would be extremely surprised if they weren’t both very, very
interested in it,” Brian Huen, managing partner at Red Sky
Capital Management Ltd., said by phone from Toronto. Red Sky
manages about C$225 million ($215 million) including Maple Leaf
shares.  Once the bread business is sold, “we firmly believe that
the protein business is also for sale,” Huen said, referring to
Maple Leaf’s meat-processing operations.  Maple Leaf is closing plants while increasing efficiency at
others as part of a seven-year restructuring plan to make its
global protein business more profitable, Chief Executive Officer
Michael McCain said on an investor call last month.  Asset Sales  The CEO, a member of the family that owns Florenceville,
New Brunswick-based french-fry producer McCain Foods Ltd, has
been remaking Maple Leaf after 23 people died and 34 others were
poisoned by listeriosis contamination in 2008 from meat
processed at a Toronto plant.  McCain owns 33 percent of Maple Leaf shares, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg. Greg Boland, CEO of Toronto-based
hedge fund West Face Capital Inc., accelerated Maple Leaf’s
overhaul after winning a seat on the company’s board in 2011.
West Face now owns 11 percent of Maple Leaf.  Maple Leaf agreed to sell its animal-rendering business to
Darling International Inc. for about C$645 million in August. It
also announced the sale of its commercial turkey farms and
hatchery operations to Ernald Enterprises Ltd. and Cuddy Farms
Ltd. respectively last quarter, for undisclosed sums.  The review for the Etobicoke, Ontario-based Canada Bread is
scheduled to be completed in early 2014, Michael McCain said.
Canada Bread makes fresh and frozen flour-based goods and sells
them through brands including Dempster’s, Olafson’s and
Olivieri, according to the company’s website.  ‘Robust Process’  Mike Vels, Maple Leaf’s chief financial officer, said in a
phone interview on Nov. 18 that the sale effort “is a robust
process.” He declined to name bidders. Monica Breton, a
spokeswoman for Mexico City-based Grupo Bimbo, declined to
comment while a representative for Thomasville, Georgia-based
Flowers didn’t return calls seeking comment.  The baking business has earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, of $175 million,
according to one of the people familiar with the situation.
Maple Leaf wants as much as 10 times Ebitda, this person said,
suggesting an asking price of more than $1.7 billion.  Canada Bread had a market capitalization of about $1.5
billion before Oct. 21, when Maple Leaf said it was reviewing
options. The company’s stock has risen 14 percent since then,
giving it a market value of C$1.91 billion. The shares fell 0.3
percent to C$75.25 today in Toronto.  Rising Demand  Maple Leaf shares have  jumped  37 percent this year,
outstripping the 20 percent rise in the 11-company Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Consumer Staples Index amid speculation it may also
be a takeover target.  If the deal goes through Maple Leaf will be able to pay off
debt, Red Sky’s Huen said.  Shuanghui International Ltd. of  Hong Kong  announced a C$4.7
billion deal to buy Smithfield Foods Inc. on May 29 as companies
in Asia search for supply and technological expertise to feed
growing middle classes in  emerging markets .  Annual global protein consumption is expected to increase
to 52 kilograms (115 pounds) per capita by 2030 from 40
kilograms, according to a report from Bloomberg Industries.  Maple Leaf shares fell 1 percent to C$16.43 in Toronto
today. The shares closed at C$16.60 yesterday, the highest since
May 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  