-- Apple Says ‘Smartphone Inventor’ Patent Claim Falls Short
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-11-20T20:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/apple-says-smartphone-inventor-patent-claim-falls-short.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  said the patent claims of
a 70-year-old electrical engineer who maintains he invented the
smartphone don’t add up, as the case goes before a jury to
decide whether Apple is liable for infringement.  “His invention was using your computer as your cell
phone,” Mark Scarsi, Apple’s lawyer, told the jurors in his
closing statement today in federal court in  Los Angeles .
“That’s not an iPhone.”  NetAirus Technologies LLC, a company owned by inventor
Richard L. Ditzik, alleged that Apple infringes a patent for a
handheld device that combines computer and wireless-communications functions over both a Wi-Fi and a cellular
network. Damages he can win in the trial are limited to sales of
Apple’s iPhone 4 in the past 13 months.  Scarsi said Ditzik’s initial patent application in 1997 was
for a handset that made calls through a laptop computer and that
the inventor later changed the patent claims to put e-mail and
other functions in the handset rather than in the computer.
Scarsi asked the jury to find that the patent was invalid and
not infringed by Apple’s iPhone.  Apple “shamelessly” stole Ditzik’s invention, NetAirus’s
lawyer, Ray Niro, said in his closing statement.  “Apple somewhere along the line lost their way,” Niro
told the jurors. “They lost their sense of responsibility.”  Niro said a royalty of $500,000 would be reasonable for
Apple’s use of the patented technology.  NetAirus filed a new complaint against Cupertino,
California-based Apple in May, for patent infringement by the
iPad, iPhone 4S and iPhone 5, after U.S. District Judge John A. Kronstadt denied the company’s request to amend its complaint
and include those models in the case being tried.  The case is NetAirus Technologies LLC v. Apple Inc., 10-cv-03257, U.S. District Court, Central District of  California 
(Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal courthouse at
   epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 