-- Largan Sues Samsung Over Smartphone Camera Lens Patents
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   Y u - H u a y   S u n
-- 2013-11-20T05:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/largan-sues-samsung-over-smartphone-camera-lens-patents.html
Largan Precision Co. (3008) , a Taiwanese
smartphone camera lens maker, sued Samsung Electronics Co. for
infringing six of its imaging lens patents in Samsung’s Galaxy
Note and S series smartphones.  The Nov. 14 complaint filed in  U.S. federal court  in  San
Diego  seeks unspecified “treble damages,” which investor
relations employee Amanda Chiu today declined to define.  Largan, the world’s biggest designer and manufacturer of
imaging lens products used in mobile devices according to its
lawsuit, has also sued Taiwan-listed competitors including
 Genius Electronic Optical Co. (3406)  and  Ability Opto-Electronics
Technology Co. (3362)  this year over patent infringement. Taichung
City, Taiwan-based Largan may sue other companies, Chiu said.  “We are carefully reviewing this matter and not able to
provide any details at this moment,” Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung said in a statement in response to questions about
Largan’s lawsuit.  Largan also asked the U.S. court to halt imports of Samsung
products that infringe its patents. Chiu declined to say whether
Samsung is or has been a client.  Shares of Largan, which counts Apple Inc. and Microsoft
Corp. among its  customers , were unchanged in Taipei at
NT$1,065.00 as of 1:08 p.m. after surging 6 percent yesterday.
Shares have climbed 37 percent so far this year compared to a
6.8 percent rise in Taiwan’s benchmark Taiex index. Samsung fell
1.2 percent to 1,471,000 million won.  SinoPac Securities Corp. wrote in a note today Largan’s
lawsuit signals confidence in its patents, underscoring the
company’s “leading” position in high-end camera lenses. The
camera lens maker is consolidating its market leader position by
defending its patents, according to a research note from Jih Sun
Securities Investment Consulting Co. today.  The case is Largan Precision Co. v.  Samsung Electronics (005930) 
Co., Ltd. et al, 13-2740, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of California (San Diego).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  