-- Argentina Shuffle Spurs Bets New Exchange System to Weaken Peso
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2013-11-20T20:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/argentina-shuffle-spurs-bets-new-exchange-system-to-weaken-peso.html
The Argentine peso is falling in a
market used to wager on future currency values after Axel Kicillof’s promotion to economy minister fueled bets the country
will create a foreign exchange system with multiple rates.  Three-month non-deliverable forwards have plunged 4.9
percent to 7.16 per dollar since Nov. 18, when presidential
spokesman Alfredo Scoccimarro announced Kicillof’s appointment
as part of cabinet changes. With the official rate at 6.0461,
the forwards market indicates that traders are wagering the peso
will fall about 16 percent in three months. In the illegal
 currency market  used to skirt controls, the rate is 9.93 pesos
per dollar, according to data compiled by newspaper Ambito.  The likelihood  Argentina  will designate exchange rates that
differ based on the transaction has jumped with the promotion of
Kicillof, who as deputy economy minister supported President
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s ban on dollar purchases for
savings and import restrictions, according to a report yesterday
by HSBC Holdings Plc. That may mean a weaker exchange rate for
financial-industry transactions, which the forwards market
tracks, according to Ezequiel Aguirre, a currency strategist at
Bank of America Corp.  “Multiple FX means that there’s a higher probability of a
new and higher ‘financial’ exchange rate,” Aguirre said in an
e-mailed response to questions.  Implied yields on the three-month forwards, or the interest
investors pay to lock in an exchange-rate to sell pesos in the
future, have surged 19 percentage points since the announcement
to 72.21 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cabinet Shuffle  Fernandez named Kicillof to replace Hernan Lorenzino on the
first day that she resumed duties after a five-week medical
leave. She also appointed a new central bank president, cabinet
chief and agriculture minister.  Trading in non-deliverable forwards, or NDF contracts,
began in the early 1990s and allowed companies and investors to
reduce their  currency risk  in developing nations where capital
controls limited foreign-exchange transactions, according to a
2005 report by the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  The contracts allow investors to sell the dollar for
currencies such as the Argentine peso at an agreed-upon exchange
rate. They make a profit if the peso in the  spot market  is
stronger than the pre-determined rate when the contract expires.
The contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in  New York  at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  