-- ARM Sees Shift to Cheaper Smartphones Boosting Chip Royalty
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-11-21T09:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/arm-sees-shift-toward-cheaper-smartphones-boosting-chip-royalty.html
ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , the U.K. chip
designer whose products power  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhones, predicts a
shift in demand toward lower-priced smartphones will help boost
royalty revenue.  “There is a shift advantage for ARM as mid-range and entry
smartphones drive smartphone growth. We’ve got that dynamic
going into next year,” Chief Financial Officer Tim Score said
at a conference in  Barcelona  yesterday. “Those phones generate
much more royalty for ARM because they use more silicon.”  ARM has had five consecutive years of  revenue growth  as its
designs for chips that control graphics and processing were used
in increasingly popular smartphones and tablets. Royalty
payments took the spotlight last quarter as they missed
analysts’ estimates. ARM shares have fallen almost 9 percent
since the earnings report on Oct. 22.  “As ARM technology becomes more sophisticated, the royalty
percentage goes up,” Score said. “On average, it’s going to
very gradually go up.”  Global smartphone shipments surged 40 percent last quarter,
slowing from 53 percent growth for the previous three-month
period, according to researcher IDC. The average selling prices
of the devices fell by 13 percent to $317 from a year earlier,
because of demand for more affordable handsets.  In spite of concerns about slowing growth, especially in
China, Score said ARM can continue expanding its customer base
and outperforming the semiconductor market in the next five
years, driven by cheaper handsets, enterprise networking and
micro-controllers.  ARM shares fell less than 1 percent to 953.50 pence at 9:16
a.m. in  London .  New Chief  Chief Executive Officer Simon Segars, who succeeded Warren East in July, is confronting a shift in the industry’s growth to
low-end smartphones and new entrant  Intel Corp. (INTC) , which has begun
designing its own chips for mobile phones. ARM, based in
Cambridge, England, is also seeking to boost its market share in
servers as companies from  Facebook Inc. (FB)  to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  look for
lower-power machines to drive their data centers.  It’s “possible to identify such a market and build a chip
specifically for that market, whether it is to handle only
storage or only video loading, for example. We can make the chip
much more efficient,” Score said at the annual Technology,
Media and Telecoms Conference organized by Morgan Stanley.  “Everyone knows Intel has a very strong ecosystem around
servers, we’re not kidding ourselves,” Score said. “For that
reason we see it as further out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Barcelona at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  