-- Harrisburg Ballpark Bleeding Capital in Receivership
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-11-20T22:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/harrisburg-ballpark-bleeding-capital-in-receivership.html
Harrisburg’s investment in a minor-league baseball team is still draining the  Pennsylvania 
capital’s coffers six years after the city, which was placed
under receivership in 2011, sold the club.  The city of 50,000 had to cover $182,514 in debt service
through Nov. 20 as proceeds from the sale of the Harrisburg
Senators, a farm team for Major League Baseball’s Washington
Nationals, were unable to cover all the costs for $18 million in
stadium bonds, according to Gerald Cross, a consultant for
state-appointed receiver William B. Lynch. The securities were
issued by the municipal redevelopment authority in 2005,  Former Mayor Stephen Reed, who left office in 2010, bought
the Senators for about $7 million during a 28-year tenure that
included borrowing millions for a hydroelectric dam and Wild
West museum that were never built. The city sold the team for
about $12.5 million in 2007, according to Lynch.  Municipalities from Glendale,  Arizona , to Harrison, New
Jersey, have pledged public funds for stadiums as tools for
economic development. About $7.6 million in Harrisburg’s
revenue-backed stadium bonds remain outstanding, some maturing
as late as 2030, city documents show.  Harrisburg is already dealing with the aftershocks of debt
guarantees for a waste-to-energy plant that pushed the city into
an unsuccessful bankruptcy filing and state receivership in
2011. The city also backed securities for the home of the
Senators on City Island in the Susquehanna River, now known as
 Metro Bank Park . The team placed first in the Eastern League’s
Western Division this year.  Insufficient Payments  Annual payments by the team’s owners, Harrisburg-based
Senators Partners LLC, aren’t enough to make the debt payments,
which the city is covering from its general fund, according to a
recovery plan issued by Lynch.  This year, Harrisburg received $472,000 in permit and
parking fees from the Senators, said Cross. With debt service on
the 2005 bonds totaling $654,514, the city had to make up the
$182,514 remainder from its general fund, he said. That amount
could cover the salaries of two police sergeants, according to
data from the 2013 budget.  The chairman of Senators Partners is  Michael Reinsdorf ,
president of the National Basketball Association’s Chicago
Bulls. Reinsdorf’s father, Jerry Reinsdorf, owns the team as
well as Major League Baseball’s Chicago White Sox.  Bob Philbin, Harrisburg’s chief operating officer, said by
telephone that the city’s payments on the stadium debt are
“certainly manageable.” Kevin Kulp, president of the Senators,
declined to comment by e-mail.  Operating Loss  While Harrisburg posted operating revenue of $437,464 for
Metro Bank Park last year, it also recorded a $960,488 charge
for depreciation. The city was left with an operating loss of
$523,024, according to a financial report issued Nov. 17.  Including non-operating expenses such as interest, the
Harrisburg Senators Fund had a loss of $942,600 in 2012. That
was partly offset by a $219,300 contribution from the city’s
general fund. The loss included $417,884 in interest expense on
the bonds that remain outstanding.  Cross said it’s common for municipalities to post
depreciation to reflect the theoretical cost of replacing or
renovating an asset.  Cory Angell, Lynch’s spokesman, said the receiver plans to
focus on the stadium bonds after he sells the trash facility and
leases the municipal parking system to pay creditors on the
incinerator debt. Deals financing those transactions are
expected to take place in the first week of December, Angell
said.  Lynch “is continuing to investigate the issues related to
these bonds, with the goal to resolve matters in such a manner
that the city will no longer need to pay a portion of the debt
service,” according to the plan, approved by the Pennsylvania
Commonwealth Court in September.  The case is Walker v. Harrisburg Authority, 569-MD-2011,
Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court, Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  