-- Asian Stocks Drop on Samsung Electronics, WorleyParsons
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-11-20T12:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/asia-stocks-rise-as-bernanke-says-u-s-rates-to-stay-low.html
Asian  stocks  fell for a second day
after valuations on the regional benchmark index reached the
highest level since May and as Samsung Electronics Co. and
 WorleyParsons Ltd. (WOR)  declined.  Samsung lost 1.3 percent as investors awaited a U.S. court
decision on how much the South Korean handset maker should pay
Apple Inc. for patent infringement. WorleyParsons Ltd.,
Australia’s largest oil and gas engineering company, slumped a
record 26 percent after saying profit will miss a forecast given
last month. Micronics  Japan  Co. surged 21 percent in  Tokyo  after
the electronics-component maker said full-year earnings would
increase from the prior period.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.4 percent to 142.21 as
of 8:49 p.m. in  Hong Kong . The gauge added 0.9 percent this week
through yesterday. The  Federal Open Market Committee  publishes
minutes of its October meeting today after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S. benchmark interest rate
will remain near zero for a “considerable time” when central
bank’s debt purchases end.  “There is evidence of profit taking,” Ric Spooner,
Sydney-based chief market analyst at stockbroker CMC Markets,
said in an e-mail. “Upcoming data beginning with tonight’s
release of U.S. retail sales has more capacity to shift thinking
on the timing and pace of the Fed’s taper program.”  Markets advanced this week after  China  pledged to execute
economic reforms and Bernanke’s nominated successor, Fed Vice-Chairman  Janet Yellen , said she would continue U.S. stimulus.
Retail sales in the U.S. probably returned to growth last month,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists before data due
today.  Relative Value  The Asia-Pacific gauge traded at 13.9 times estimated
earnings yesterday, having touched 14 on Nov. 18, the highest
since May. That compared with 16.2 for the S&P 500 yesterday and
15.1 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
cut its global growth forecasts yesterday, citing a slowdown in
developing nations. The world economy will probably expand 2.7
percent this year and 3.6 percent in 2014, instead of the 3.1
percent and and 4 percent predicted in May, the Paris-based OECD
said in a semi-annual report yesterday.  Bernanke’s statement that a “preponderance of data” would
be needed to start removing stimulus comes after Yellen said
last week that the  U.S. economy  is not yet strong enough to
warrant cuts to the record bond-buying program.  Regional Gauges  Japan’s Topix index dropped 0.3 percent after the nation
posted its biggest trade deficit on record. South Korea’s Kospi
index and Taiwan’s Taiex both fell 0.7 percent. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index sank 0.9 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index fell 0.5 percent. Singapore’s Straits Times Index slipped
0.3 percent.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland
Chinese shares listed in the city gained 0.6 percent, capping a
five-day rally and closing at the highest level since March
after China’s central bank elaborated on plans to free up
foreign-exchange controls.  The People’s Bank of China will “basically” end normal
intervention in the  currency market  and broaden the  yuan ’s daily
trading limit, Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said, without giving a
time frame. The daily range will be widened in an “orderly
way” as China seeks to enhance the currency’s two-way
flexibility, Zhou wrote in an article in a guidebook explaining
reforms outlined last week following a Communist Party meeting.  Hong Kong’s China Enterprises Index index climbed 29
percent since this year’s low on June 25 as data signaled
 China’s economy  is strengthening and policy makers unveiled the
biggest package of reforms since the 1990s. Hong Kong’s  Hang
Seng Index (HSI)  added 0.2 percent today and the Shanghai Composite
Index advanced 0.6 percent.  China Reforms  China’s policy makers have pledged to allow more private
investment in state-run industries, ease the one-child policy
and expand farmers’ land rights.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The gauge dropped 0.2 percent yesterday, a second
day of declines, as investors weighed rising valuations and
disappointing earnings forecasts.  “The target for the federal funds rate is likely to remain
near zero for a considerable time after the asset purchases end,
perhaps well after” the jobless rate falls below the Fed’s 6.5
percent threshold, Bernanke said in a speech to economists in
 Washington . A “preponderance of data” would be needed to begin
removing accommodation, he said.  Stimulus Tapering  “He’s just confirmed that the quantitative easing measures
will continue, certainly for the near-term future,”  Kirk Hartman , Los Angeles-based chief investment officer at Wells
Capital Management, where he helps oversee about $331 billion,
told Bloomberg TV. “We all know that the end of the Fed
tapering is coming, the question is when. The market is
hopeful.”  Samsung Electronics slid 1.3 percent to 1.47 million won. A
court in  San Jose ,  California , will decide on how much Samsung
should pay Apple for patent infringement in a trial that started
last week. The iPhone maker originally won a $1.05 billion
verdict against Samsung last year, but the judge reduced the
award by 39 percent in March. The jury in the current case is
deciding how much of the trimmed amount should be reinstated.  WorleyParsons Sinks  WorleyParsons tumbled a record 26 percent to A$16 in Sydney
after saying profit will be as much as 19 percent less than a
forecast given last month. Daiichi Sankyo Co. sank 3.9 percent
to 1,868 yen in Tokyo after Cantor Fitzgerald LP said edoxaban,
the Japanese company’s new blood-thinning drug, may have trouble
competing with existing anti-coagulants.  Among stocks that rose, Sharp Corp. surged 7.6 percent to
299 yen. The Japanese electronics maker is considering a tie-up
with Hewlett-Packard Co. to make photocopiers, Kyodo News
reported.  Micronics Japan (6871)  jumped 21 percent to 870 yen after saying
it expects net income to increase to 1.2 billion yen ($12
million) in the year ending September 2014, compared with 1.1
billion yen the previous year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  