-- Atos Seeks Deals to Make Worldline Europe’s Payment Leader
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-11-21T18:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/atos-seeks-purchases-to-make-worldline-europe-s-payment-leader.html
Atos (ATO)  is studying potential
acquisitions to help make the French computer-services
supplier’s Worldline unit Europe’s biggest payments company.  “We make a point of constantly looking at everything that
comes on the market that could be a good fit for Worldline,”
Gilles Grapinet, Atos senior executive vice president, said in
an interview in Barcelona. “We don’t want to find ourselves in
a situation where we missed a transaction. Bankers know they can
come and knock on our door.”  Atos, whose competitors include  France ’s  Cap Gemini SA (CAP)  and
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  of the U.S., is looking at
acquisition targets to help Worldline gain scale, Grapinet said.
The Paris-based company is also weighing acquisitions to take
the division into new countries, especially in central and
Eastern  Europe , or for market share in fast-growing markets such
as online payments, he said.  “There is room in Europe to create a big leader in
payments like in the U.S.,” Grapinet said yesterday in a
presentation at a conference organized by Morgan Stanley.
“Payment assets are generally trading at much higher ratios
than Atos, so we carved out Worldline to give ourselves a
currency.”  PAI Partners  Atos fell 4.1 percent to 61.70 euros in Paris today.
Shareholder PAI Partners SAS is selling as many as 8.9 million
shares, according to a statement from Morgan Stanley, which is
arranging the transaction. The stake has a market value of about
572 million euros ($768 million) based on yesterday’s close. The
private-equity firm became Atos’s largest stakeholder in 2008.  Atos said in July it had finished separating its
electronic-payment business into Worldline and would consider
whether to make acquisitions, sell a share of the division to
investors or seek a separate listing on the stock market.  Other operators in the fragmented market for electronic
payments range from EBay Inc.’s online money-transfer and
payments service PayPal to companies such as Gemalto NV, which
sell software to make transactions more secure.  Atos is headed by Thierry Breton, a former finance minister
who became chief executive officer in November 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Barcelona at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  