-- Authentic Brands, Apple, NetApp: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-11-20T13:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/authentic-brands-apple-netapp-intellectual-property.html
Authentic Brands Group LLC, a New
York-based licensing company, acquired the Elvis Presley
intellectual-property assets from Core Media Group Inc.  The rights acquired include photographic imagery, album
covers and movie posters, television appearances and music
specials, Presley’s name and likeness and the rights to Elvis-themed events, according to a statement. The company said it
already owns the Marilyn Monroe and Muhammad Ali brands.  Authentic Brands will own and manage the assets in
partnership with the Presley family and Joel Weinshanker,
chairman and founder of National Entertainment Collectibles
Association Inc. Weinshanker will acquire the rights to the
management of  Graceland , Presley’s home in  Memphis ,  Tennessee ,
together with the family and Authentic Brands.  Terms of the transaction weren’t disclosed.  Presley died in 1977.  Apple, Registrar Bring in Linguists in Trademark Fight  Apple Inc. and  Australia ’s Registrar of Trademarks have
both turned to linguists to support their arguments in hearings
in that nation’s federal court over the registrar’s refusal to
register “ App Store ” as a trademark, ZDNet  reported .  The registrar earlier ruled that Apple hasn’t proved its
app-selling services were distinct from others, according to
ZDNet.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , will bring in survey
results and Google Trends data in efforts to show the
association the public makes between the company and the term,
ZDNet reported.  Australia registered “appstore” as a trademark for San
Francisco’s  Saleforce.com Inc. (CRM)  in 2006, before Apple filed its
application in 2008, according to ZDNet.  Twenty-First Century Fox Trademark Appeal to Be Heard in Russia  Twenty-First Century Fox (FOXA) ’s appeal of an adverse Russian
trademark ruling will be heard Dec. 17 in the Moscow Region’s
Federal Arbitration Court, the Russian Legal Information Agency
 reported .  In July,  Russia ’s Ninth Commercial Court of Appeals
rejected the film company’s argument that registration of the
“PoBeGi” trademark should be canceled because the owner --
sports company Begushchy Gorod -- failed to use it, Rapsi
reported.  The film company was seeking to register the mark for the
Russian adaptation of its “Prison Break” series, known there
as “Pobeg,” according to Rapsi.  Counsel for Begushchy Gorod is arguing the brand is being
used for city orienteering events and related materials, Rapsi
reported.  Student Publication Changes Name of ‘Rear of the Year’ Contest  University of Cambridge’s student-run  Cambridge Tab  online
magazine had to change the name of a contest after it ran afoul
of the official “Rear of the Year” trademark holder, the
U.K.’s Independent newspaper  reported .  To avoid being sued for copyright infringement, Cambridge
Tab change the name of its contest to “ Best Bums ,” according
to the Independent.  Tony Edwards, of the official  Rear of the Year  competition,
told the Independent he found it “depressing” that the
students didn’t have the imagination to come up with something
original.  The official Rear of the Year contest has been run annually
since 1976, according to the Independent.  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  NetApp Sues Ex-Employees, Nimble Storage Over Trade Secrets  NetApp Inc. (NTAP) , a provider of data storage and management
products and services, sued a competitor and three former
employees for trade secret misappropriation.  Nimble Storage Inc., of San Jose, California, is accused of
recruiting NetApp employees to obtain that company’s trade
secrets. Fifteen percent of Nimble’s workforce and half of its
executive staff are former NetApp employees, according to the
complaint.  Sunnyvale, California-based NetApp claims that Nimble
trades on NetApp’s fame by telling customers that its technology
teams include former NetApp employees. The former employees,
NetApp said, downloaded confidential company information before
they left and brought it with them to Nimble.  In addition to trade secret misappropriation, Nimble and
the former NetApp employees are accused of conspiring to violate
the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act to give Nimble a competitive
advantage. The former employees are also accused of violating
their employment contracts with NetApp.  Dan Leary, Nimble’s vice president of worldwide marketing,
said in an e-mailed statement that his company will investigate
NetApp’s claims and “vigorously defend” any that are “false
and unsubstantial.”  NetApp asked the court to bar the use of its trade secrets
and to grant access to laptops, hard drives, external storage
media and Nimble’s computer systems and servers to verify the
extent and nature of NetApp materials stored there. The company
also asked for money damages.  The case is NetApp Inc. v. Nimble Storage Inc., 13-cv-05058, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  Patents  Silicon Valley Invents Way Around Washington Gridlock on Patents  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , two California technology
companies on opposite sides of a  Washington  debate over U.S.
patent law, may soon take their fight closer to home.  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office is pushing forward
with plans to open a fully operational satellite office in San
Jose, after congressional budget cuts put them on hold earlier
this year. The work-around came about after San Jose city
officials pledged free rent and California donated $500,000.  The permanent office, which may open by the end of next
year, will be where West Coast inventors submit applications to
get legal protection for their ideas. It will also serve as a
hub where companies -- even startups -- can bring their
positions on patent law directly to the administration without a
cross-country flight.  “It will mean an easier and clearer channel of
communication both ways -- from the PTO to the public and from
the public to the PTO,” said Michelle Lee, a former Google
executive who’s now director of the Silicon Valley office.  The agency’s temporary location, at an office in Menlo
Park, houses Lee and nine administrative law judges who hear
arguments about the validity of issued patents. With a permanent
space, the patent office plans to have a total staff of more
than 80, with 20 judges and 60 patent examiners.  A key role in the patent office is in helping develop
administration policy on intellectual property. The technology
industry is split on proposals before Congress that could change
the rules for patent litigation. Mountain View, California-based
Google is backing the proposals. Qualcomm, based at the southern
end of the state in San Diego, says some of the ideas being
considered could curtail innovation, particularly by startups.  Both companies are funding lobbying groups that are trying
to influence Congress. Smaller companies in Silicon Valley don’t
always have that option. Lee said the local office has already
held roundtable discussions about policy regarding patents on
software.  Apple Asks Jury to Use Common Sense in Samsung Damages Trial  An  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  lawyer told jurors common sense would lead
them to conclude Samsung Electronics Co. should pay $380 million
for infringement of some of the iPhone-maker’s patents.  William Lee of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP gave
his closing argument yesterday in federal court in San Jose,
California, where Apple won a $1.05 billion verdict against
Samsung last year. His client is attempting to recoup most of
the $410.5 million, or 39 percent, of the award that U.S.
District Judge Lucy Koh cut in March.  Jurors should apply their “collective judgment” to the
companies’ actions to “focus on what they actually did in the
real world” and not “what they could’ve done,” Lee said.  While Samsung is “telling you these patents are narrow and
insignificant,” historical documents tell the truth, said Lee,
who was on Apple’s legal team last year. “Documents don’t
lie.”  William C. Price of Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP,
an attorney for Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung, has argued
that jurors should award Cupertino, California-based Apple $52
million, which he called “not a trivial sum.”  “Apple has tried to mischaracterize these patents so they
are the iPhone,” Price told the jury today. “These patents are
very narrow.”  An appeals court in Washington ruled Nov. 18 that Apple can
seek a ban on sales of some Samsung products found to infringe
patents covering smartphone features, such as multitouch
technology, that were at issue in the 2012 trial. The company
can’t block Samsung products for infringing patented designs,
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit said.  A decision on damages will conclude the first U.S. case
between the two companies over claims they are copying each
other’s features in their global battle for dominance of the
smartphone market.  The case is Apple Inc. v.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  Ltd., 11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyrights  Copyright Industry Adds $1 Trillion to U.S. GDP, Report Says  The International Intellectual Property Alliance, a
Washington-based trade group, released the results of a  study 
indicating that the value added by copyright industries to the
U.S. gross domestic product exceeded $1 trillion in 2012,
accounting for almost 6.5 percent of the nation’s economy.  The industries employ almost 11.1 million workers, or 8.4
percent of the U.S workforce, according to the report. Those
workers receive average annual compensation of $75,926, 18
percent more than the U.S. average.  According to the report, sales of U.S. copyright sectors in
overseas markets amounted to $142 billion in 2012, exceeding
foreign sales of aerospace exports, U.S. agricultural exports,
food, and pharmaceuticals and medicines.  Members  of the International Intellectual Property
Association include the Association of American Publishers,
Business Software Alliance, Entertainment Software Association,
Independent Film & Television Alliance, Motion Picture
Association of America, National Music Publishers’ Association,
and Recording Industry Association of America.  Russia Copyright Control Agency to Oversee Collection Societies  The Russian government plans to start a new copyright
agency to control two of the country’s societies that collect
copyright fees,  according to  the Hollywood Reporter.  Proposal for the agency, which will be structured along the
lines of the Russian patent agency, came from Russia’s Economic
Development Ministry, the entertainment-industry publication
reported.  Russian director Nikita Mikhalkov, who heads one of the
country’s collecting societies, will choose the head of the new
agency, according to Hollywood Reporter.  One goal of the new agency is adding more transparency to
the operations of the collecting societies, the newspaper
reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  