-- Axa Raises $260 Million for Japan Property Debt Fund
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-11-20T08:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/axa-raises-260-million-for-japan-property-debt-fund-correct-.html
Axa Real Estate Investment Managers
raised 26 billion yen ($260 million) for a commercial-property
loans fund in Japan, where Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is trying
to boost the economy with monetary and fiscal stimulus.  The fundraising will increase Axa Real Estate’s debt
program in Japan to more than 40 billion yen, the unit of Paris-based  Axa SA (CS)  said in a statement today. The company raised the
money from two affiliates in Japan and plans to invest the new
fund in loans backed mainly by projects in the Tokyo area.  Abe’s administration has sought to re-energize Japan after
years of  deflation  and population declines reduced
manufacturers’ incentive to expand at home. The amount of real
estate debt maturing in Japan through 2014 exceeds available
funding by about $20 billion, the biggest gap in Asia, broker
DTZ said in a June report.  “Since we secured the Olympic Games in 2020, most
industrial people are saying that in another five- to seven-years time we can still have a good, picking-up economy,”
Tetsuya Karasawa, Axa Real Estate’s deputy head of  Japan , said
in an interview. “We want to have some diversification. We can
target office buildings, residential facilities, retail,
logistics and so-called business hotels.”  The fund will offer loans of about 3 billion yen to
borrowers at margins of about 150 to 180 basis points above
local benchmarks, he said. Foreign investors and small real
estate investment trusts will probably be their main customers,
Karasawa said. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Axa started its first Japanese commercial real estate debt
fund in 2011 and has achieved its target returns, Karasawa said,
without being more specific.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  