-- Mayor Johnson Assailed in London Assembly Over Cycling Deaths
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-11-20T11:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/mayor-johnson-assailed-in-london-assembly-over-cycling-deaths.html
London Assembly  members attacked
Conservative Mayor  Boris Johnson  over his policies to encourage
cycling, after six bike-riders died on the U.K. capital’s
streets in less than two weeks.  In the mayor’s regular question-and-answer session at  City
Hall  today, Liberal Democrat Caroline Pidgeon accused Johnson of
not doing enough to speed up measures to introduce segregated
cycle lanes. Green Assembly member Jenny Jones said Johnson was
“blaming the victims” for saying some cyclists were riding
dangerously, such as by wearing headphones.  “Cycling is not getting safer in London,” Jones said. “I
think you should apologize to the families of the victims and to
the people who have been seriously injured on the roads because
of your flawed and quite dangerous policies.”  The death of a cyclist in a collision with a truck in
Walworth, southeast  London , two days ago brought the number of
bike-riders who’ve lost their lives on the capital’s roads this
year to 14, the same as in the whole of 2012. The five previous
deaths in recent weeks also involved trucks and buses.  “Your chances of dying on a cycle journey in London are
lower now than they were five years ago,” Johnson said,
appealing for support from his own Tory group in the assembly.
“What we can’t do is provide engineering of every inch of road
surface in such a way as to guard against behavior that is
irrational and unexpected.”  Johnson, who is frequently pictured riding a bike, has made
increasing cycle use one of his flagship policies. He’s set up a
hire-bike program sponsored by Barclays Plc and inaugurated a
network of wider bike lanes known as cycle superhighways.  The capital’s Metropolitan Police force announced this week
it is putting hundreds of extra officers on to the streets to
improve road safety, checking for dangerous and badly driven
trucks as well as stopping cyclists who are behaving
dangerously.  “I would not be against a prohibition or ban on cyclists
wearing headphones,” Johnson said on BBC Radio London
yesterday. “Call me illiberal but it makes me absolutely
terrified to see them bowling along unable to hear the
traffic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net 
NI LONDON
NI POL
NI TRN
NI UKGOV
NI GOV 