-- Barrick Flips Bond Fortunes as Miner Suspends Dig: Canada Credit
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-11-20T14:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/barrick-flips-bond-fortunes-as-miner-suspends-dig-canada-credit.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  is reversing the
fortunes of suffering  bondholders  with the industry’s highest
returns as a stock sale and pledge to suspend construction leave
it poised to produce more excess cash than competitors.  Bonds of the world’s largest gold miner have returned 2.27
percent since Barrick announced plans on Oct. 31 to sell $3
billion of equity, cut debt and shelve its Pascua-Lama mining
project on the Argentina-Chile border. That compares with a 0.17
percent loss for the more than  $200 billion  of materials-industry debt tracked by Bloomberg and helps to offset previous
losses of about 10 percent this year through Oct. 30.  While a slumping gold price and equity dilution have
contributed to an 8 percent  decline  for shareholders this month,
bond investors are benefiting as Toronto-based Barrick reins in
capital spending. After burning through more cash than either of
its two largest North American competitors in the last year,
analysts now estimate Barrick will  lead the pack  in 2014 with
$636 million of excess funds.  “They’ve done more than other companies to readjust their
cost structure and to strengthen the balance sheet and bolster
liquidity,” said Susan Hutman, a New York-based credit analyst
at AllianceBernstein LP, which oversees $250 billion of fixed-income assets including Barrick debt. “Barrick remains better
positioned than other investment-grade gold peers.”  Investor Premium  Elsewhere in credit markets, Canadian  government bonds  were
little changed, with the benchmark 10-year security yielding
2.56 percent at 9:44 a.m. in Toronto.  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt of
investment-grade corporations rather than of the federal
government was unchanged yesterday from a day earlier at 119
basis points, or 1.19 percentage points, according to the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch  Canada  Corporate Index. Yields
increased to 3.11 percent, from 3.09 percent on Nov. 18.  The premium investors demand for provincial debt compared
to federal benchmarks held steady at 69 basis points, according
to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Canadian Provincial &
Municipal Index. Yields rose to 2.98 percent, from 2.96 percent
at the start of the week.  Corporate debt has returned 1 percent this year, compared
with losses of 1.9 percent for provincial debt and 1.8 percent
for federal-government securities, Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Barrick has also supported its debt with a $1.5 billion
tender offer that prioritizes  shorter-maturity  notes, along with
a plan to pay down $1.1 billion of obligations that mature next
year. The company said Nov. 18 that investors had agreed to
tender more than $3.5 billion of its bonds.  Equity Issue  The miner,  rated  Baa2 at Moody’s Investors Service and an
equivalent BBB by  Standard & Poor’s , has been working to repair
its finances amid $10.6 billion of  losses  in the last 12 months
that included $8.7 billion of writedowns in the second quarter.  Before completing Canada’s biggest equity issue since 2009
on Nov. 14, it divested three mines in  Australia  for $270
million and cut its  quarterly dividend  to 5 cents a share from
20 cents. Capital expenditures may drop to $2.96 billion next
year, down from $6.1 billion in the 12 months ended Sept. 30,
helping to erase a cash burn that depleted $1.2 billion of funds
in the past year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Pascua-Lama  “With everything they’ve been doing, like issuing equity
and reducing debt, that’s really helped to draw spreads
tighter,” said Wen Li, an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in  New
York , who favors Barrick debt relative to obligations of  Newmont
Mining Corp. (NEM)  The Pascua-Lama project “has been a very big cash
outflow, and because they’re going to suspend it, it’s going to
really help.”  Barrick’s returns this month are more than six times the
0.35 percent gain delivered by Newmont, the second-largest gold
producer, and compare with a 0.25 percent loss for the $3.74
trillion U.S.  investment-grade market . That still leaves 10-year
Barrick debt yielding about  5.28 percent , or 94 basis points
more than similar-maturity borrowing costs for issuers in the
 BBB rating tier , Bloomberg Valuation estimates show.  The bonds “have had quite a run,” said Zachary Chavis, a
credit trader at Austin, Texas-based Sage Advisory Services
Ltd., which oversees about $10 billion and has been increasing
its exposure to miners including Barrick. “From a bondholder
perspective, you’re not worried about management in the short
term hurting you” with debt-financed shareholder rewards.  Andy Lloyd , a Barrick spokesman, didn’t immediately return
requests yesterday seeking comment on the company’s finances.  Implied Rating  Barrick’s bond prices now imply a higher credit rating of
Baa1 after trading at junk levels last month, according to
Moody’s Analytics, though both Moody’s and S&P reiterated
negative outlooks on Nov. 1. While the company is improving its
 leverage  and  liquidity  positions by repaying shorter-maturity
bonds, it still faces the risk of a further deterioration in the
price of gold.  “Their negative outlooks may reflect a wait-and-see
approach with respect to the direction of  gold prices ,”
AllianceBernstein’s Hutman said.  The metal has dropped more than 20 percent this year to
$1,276 per ounce, leaving it on pace for its first annual loss
in more than a decade. The declines may deepen as the  Federal
Reserve  begins to diminish its unprecedented asset purchases,
and Barrick’s recent actions signal its management expects a
further drop in prices, according to Li of CreditSights.  “That’s why they’ve been so aggressive in cutting costs
and issuing equity,” Li said. “They’re positioning themselves
for a downturn.”  Better Prepared  Barrick may be better prepared to weather a continuing
slump than its competitors. The company’s all-in sustaining
costs of $916 per ounce are the lowest among peers including
Newmont, Goldcorp Inc. and AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., which ranks
highest with all-in costs of $1,155 per ounce, Harry Mateer, an
analyst at Barclays Plc in New York, wrote in a Nov. 18 report.  While suspending work at Pascua-Lama will probably push
 capital spending  below the cash  generated from operations  in
2014 for the first year since 2011, Barrick’s long-term
prospects may suffer without additional investment.  “Gold producers with no growth pipelines are susceptible
to falling output and higher costs as grades decline over
time,” Mateer wrote in the report. “Barrick’s output will
likely fall, and production costs could rise, beginning in 2016
absent any other growth initiatives.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  