-- Baucus Seeks ID Theft Prevention With Tax Preparer Rules
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-11-20T21:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/baucus-seeks-id-theft-prevention-with-tax-preparer-rules.html
Senate Finance Committee Chairman
 Max Baucus  proposed enacting tougher penalties against identity
theft committed through the tax system, expanding electronic tax
filing and giving the U.S. Internal Revenue Service clear
authority to regulate tax preparers.  The plan is the second of three drafts the Montana Democrat
is releasing this week as he tries to build momentum for the
biggest  tax-code  changes since 1986. A proposal released
yesterday would modify the international tax system and a plan
set for tomorrow would change depreciation rules.  “Our tax code today is inefficient and incomprehensible to
the overwhelming majority of Americans,” Baucus said in a
statement today. “This complexity is eroding confidence in our
economy and creating uncertainty for America’s families and
businesses.”  The prospects for Baucus’s legislation are far from clear.
While many of the proposals in today’s draft draw from
legislation written by senators of both parties, his broader
effort has been stymied by a partisan divide over whether tax
changes should collect more revenue for the government.  Baucus’s plan would provide legal authority to reinstate a
suspended IRS program that regulates tax preparers.  A federal judge stopped the program earlier this year after
ruling that the 19th century statute cited by the IRS didn’t let
it require preparers to pass competency tests or pay fees. A
panel of the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals heard arguments Sept.
24 and is still considering the case.  Tax Preparers  H&R Block Inc. (HRB) , the country’s largest tax-preparation
company, supports the regulation. Smaller and solo practitioners
have opposed the rules.  “It drives small tax preparers out of the market, it
benefits the big tax-prep firms and consolidates the market,”
said Dan Alban, an attorney at the Institute for Justice in
Arlington,  Virginia , which is challenging the regulations.  On identity theft, a fast-growing problem, Baucus would
make filing a tax return using another person’s identity a
felony with a maximum punishment of five years in prison and a
$250,000 fine.  He would temporarily limit access to the  Social Security
Administration ’s Death Master File, which criminals have used to
create fake tax returns. The IRS could also require truncated
Social Security numbers on W-2 wage-reporting forms.  Baucus would also expand IRS assistance for  identity theft 
victims, require that the agency give victims a single point of
contact and notify taxpayers when suspects have been charged.  Identity Theft  According to the independent National Taxpayer Advocate,
the identity theft unit at the IRS saw its caseload increase by
78 percent to 450,000 in fiscal 2012.  “Identity theft and refund fraud is the most significant
compliance enforcement issue that the IRS has to deal with
now,” said Lawrence Gibbs, a former IRS commissioner.  Gibbs, now a lawyer at Miller & Chevalier in  Washington ,
said the growth in refundable tax credits -- essentially
spending programs run through the tax code -- made the tax
system more vulnerable than it used to be.  “You’re basically dealing with hard-core crooks,” he
said.  Baucus’s proposal would place new requirements on banks.
They would have to report all deposit accounts, not just those
that received at least $10 in interest.  Banks and other companies holding or servicing mortgages
would have to provide more information annually to the IRS along
with the amount of interest paid, including the outstanding
balance of the mortgage and the property address.  The State Department would get the authority to revoke
passports of people with “seriously delinquent” tax debts
exceeding $50,000.  The IRS return preparer case is Loving v.  Internal Revenue
Service , 13-05061,  U.S. Court of Appeals ,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  