-- Beijing Enterprises Water May List Overseas Assets for Expansion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-20T08:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/beijing-enterprises-water-may-list-overseas-assets-for-expansion.html
Beijing Enterprises Water Group
Ltd. (371) , a Chinese developer of water treatment systems, may seek a
listing for its overseas assets as it expands internationally.  “A backdoor listing of the business abroad is also
possible,” Chairman Zhang Honghai said today in an interview in
Beijing, referring to getting a listing by purchasing a company
that’s already publicly traded abroad. He didn’t disclose when
or how much Beijing Enterprises plans to raise.  The plans will help fund expansion outside China for the
Hong Kong-listed company, which currently has just 5 percent of
its assets overseas. Beijing Enterprises bought  Veolia
Environment SA (VIE) ’s water and wastewater business in Portugal for
95 million euros ($129 million) in March.  Talks are underway with potential partners and acquisition
targets mainly in  Asia , he said. The company continues to see
opportunities in Europe where a takeover would be more
profitable than elsewhere after the financial crisis, he added.  Beijing Enterprises will also cooperate with Khazanah
Nasional Bhd, the Malaysian sovereign wealth fund that holds a 5
percent stake in the company, to develop business in Southeast
Asia, Zhang said at a news conference earlier in the day.  Separately, the  Asian Development Bank  agreed to a $240
million long-term loan for the company’s wastewater treatment
plants to meet reuse water standards for industry cooling and
urban environment purposes, Beijing Enterprises said today in a
statement.  “The  interest rate  on the loan is just a bit above 2
percent,” almost a third the rate at commercial banks, Zhang
said in the interview.  The bank will also offer $500,000 for technical assistance
to enhance  energy efficiency  at the company’s wastewater
treatment plants, according to the statement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  