-- Billionaire Alwaleed Says Twitter Should Make Money Post IPO
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-11-20T13:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/billionaire-alwaleed-says-twitter-focus-to-make-money-after-ipo.html
Prince Alwaleed bin Talal , the Saudi
billionaire who invested $300 million in  Twitter Inc. (TWTR)  two years
ago, said the company needs to focus on making money after
raising $1.82 billion in an initial public offering.  “The question right now is how to look at the monetization
process,” Alwaleed said in an interview on the “Charlie Rose”
show on Bloomberg Television. “Twitter is at the beginning of
its journey. It has a lot of money in the bank right now, but
its penetration in the U.S. and the world is still minimal, so
there’s still a lot of potential to grow.”  Alwaleed, who also owns stakes in Apple Inc. and  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , and his  investment company  agreed to buy a $300 million
stake in the microblogging service in December 2011. The shares
jumped 73 percent in its trading debut on Nov. 7, after the
company sold about 70 million shares to investors in the IPO.  By hanging on to his stock, Alwaleed and other Twitter
insiders showed they’re bullish about the unprofitable San
Francisco-based company’s ability to wring earnings out of its
more than 200 million users. That contrasts with Facebook Inc.,
whose investors such as  Accel Partners  and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. ended up selling more shares than initially planned in that
company’s May 2012 IPO, according to filings.  Business Model  “When we analyzed Twitter, we believed in its business
model,” Alwaleed said. “You bet on the company and that the
monetization process is going to be successful. We’re seeing
some success in that process.”  The company, which has one-fifth as many users as Facebook,
is benefiting from investors’ thirst for companies that will
grow quickly in expanding markets like mobile advertising.  Twitter still needs to deliver on its business model. While
revenue has surged, reaching $534.5 million in the 12 months
that ended Sept. 30, user growth is slowing, filings show. The
service had 231.7 million monthly users in the quarter that
ended in September, up 39 percent from a year earlier. That
compares with 65 percent growth in the prior year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  