-- BlackRock to Pimco Ponder Puerto Rico Risk to Junk: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-11-20T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/blackrock-to-pimco-ponder-puerto-rico-risk-to-junk-muni-credit.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.
and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  say the entire $3.7 trillion municipal market
is at risk should  Puerto Rico  lose its investment-grade status,
even though many funds aren’t obliged to unload bonds cut to
junk.  Bondholders got a reminder this week that the
commonwealth’s credit rank is in jeopardy. The extra yield
investors demand on Puerto Rico debt set a one-month high after
 Fitch Ratings  threatened to lower the Caribbean island to junk
by June 30 if it is unable to borrow through financial markets.
Puerto Rico is also one step above speculative grade from
Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service.  With more than three-quarters of U.S. muni mutual funds
holding Puerto Rico debt for its tax benefits, fund companies
like Pimco and BlackRock are studying the ripple effect of a
descent into junk. Such a step may frighten off the individual
investors who dominate the local market, pressuring funds to
sell debt to generate cash, said  Joe Deane , head of munis at
Pimco, which runs the world’s biggest bond fund, and  Peter Hayes 
at  New-York  based BlackRock.  “There would have to be some selling,” said Hayes, who
oversees $108 billion as head of munis at BlackRock, the world’s
largest asset manager. “It’s just a matter of who would buy the
bonds that come out to be sold and at what price.”  Island Benefit  The self-governing commonwealth of 3.7 million, struggling
with a contracting economy, has a negative outlook on its bonds
from all three major rating companies. The territory and its
agencies had $70 billion of debt as of June 30, according to the
island’s Government Development Bank, which handles capital-market transactions.  The territory’s bonds, which are tax-exempt nationwide,
have lost about 16 percent this year, more than seven times the
decline of the municipal market as a whole,  Standard & Poor’s 
data show.  If Puerto Rico were cut to junk, investors may relive
losses seen in the three months through August because mutual
funds would turn to easier-to-sell munis with higher ratings to
meet redemptions, said Deane. The municipal market lost 5.5
percent in the three months through August, the steepest decline
since 2008.  Access Question  “If Puerto Rico were to have further problems accessing
the market or a downgrade, obviously it will put some pressure
on the funds that own that,” said Deane, who’s based in New
York. “In all likelihood, they’ll sell what they can and not
what they should.”  Pimco, which is based in  Newport Beach ,  California , and is
owned by Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) , managed $1.97 trillion
as of Sept. 30. It has had no allocation to Puerto Rico in its
tax-free funds for seven months, Deane said.  Puerto Rico officials said on a webcast last month that
they had sufficient funds to forgo selling debt before June 30
if interest rates are too high.  At least 60 prospectuses of the 180 muni funds that direct
5 percent or more toward commonwealth securities don’t require
selling Puerto Rico debt if the island were cut to junk,
according to an Oct. 31 report from Height Securities LLC, a
Washington-based broker-dealer.  Mitigation Move  Yields have already risen from earlier this year, helping
mitigate losses for muni mutual funds if Puerto Rico were
lowered to junk, said Daniel Hanson, a Height analyst.  Puerto Rico general obligations maturing July 2041 traded
this week with an average yield of 8.2 percent, or 4.1
percentage points above benchmark munis, the biggest yield
spread since Oct. 21, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Some of the loss may already be baked in,” Hanson said.  Yields rose from June to August as investors pulled cash
from muni mutual funds on speculation that the  Federal Reserve 
will scale back its bond buying.  Detroit ’s record bankruptcy
filing in July and concern that Puerto Rico’s finances would
deteriorate fueled more withdrawals.  Even though most funds aren’t required to sell debt that’s
cut to junk, investors would yank money in response to such a
step for Puerto Rico because it might signal more stress ahead
for the island, Hayes said. He said he anticipates the island
may have its rating reduced to junk as soon as mid-2014.  “Investors are going to take that as a perception that
there’s more bad news coming,” Hayes said.  BlackRock’s Stance  BlackRock has decreased Puerto Rico to about 0.08 percent
of muni holdings, Hayes said. Debt of the commonwealth and its
agencies take up 2.6 percent of Barclays Plc’s muni index. If
yields were to increase, the company would evaluate the debt for
a possible purchase, Hayes said.  Governor Alejandro Garcia Padilla, 42, who took office in
January, wants to bring the commonwealth out of recession and
end recurring budget deficits by fiscal 2016. The island’s
August unemployment rate was  13.9 percent , compared with 7.3
percent nationwide.  Puerto Rico Treasury Secretary Melba Acosta and Government
Development Bank Chairman David Chafey declined to comment.  The island’s economy is projected to shrink 0.8 percent in
the year through June 30, according to Puerto Rico’s Planning
Board. Yet the commonwealth collected $120 million more revenue
in the four months through October than budgeted, according to
preliminary results from the island’s Treasury Department.  New York-based OppenheimerFunds Inc. and  Franklin Resources
Inc. (BEN) , based in  San Mateo , California, are some of the biggest
holders of Puerto Rico securities, according to Morningstar Inc.  ‘Improving Credit’  “The recent data coming from the island supports our
belief that Puerto Rico is an improving credit,” Daniel Loughran, an OppenheimerFunds portfolio manager, said in an e-mail.  Stacey Johnston Coleman, a Franklin spokeswoman, referred
to an Oct. 22 video on the firm’s website.  “While we feel Puerto Rico is facing a difficult
situation, we feel that their bonds are being unjustly
punished,” Rafael Costas, co-director of Franklin’s muni
department, said in the video. “We are still talking about an
investment-grade rated issuer that happens to be trading at
distressed levels.”  Elsewhere in the market this week, localities plan to sell
about $8 billion of long-term debt with yields close to a one-month high.  Top-rated 10-year munis yield  2.82 percent , compared with
 2.7 percent  on similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the  interest rates , a measure of relative
value, is about  104 percent , compared with a five-year average
of 102.5 percent. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis are
compared with federal securities.  Following is a pending sale:  Maryland’s Transportation Department plans to sell $250
million of tax-exempt revenue debt through competitive bid on
Nov. 20, Bloomberg data show. Proceeds will finance highway
repairs and improvements, according to Moody’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Michelle Kaske} in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  