-- BOE Sees Case for Record-Low Rate Beyond 7% Jobless
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-11-20T12:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/boe-sees-case-for-keeping-record-low-rate-beyond-7-jobless-1-.html
Bank of England  officials voted
unanimously to keep policy unchanged this month and said a
record-low  interest rate  may be needed even after unemployment
falls to the threshold set under forward guidance.  “There were uncertainties over the durability of the
recovery,” the Monetary Policy Committee said in the minutes of
its Nov. 6-7 meeting, published in  London  today. “With the
proviso that medium-term inflation expectations remained
sufficiently well anchored, the projections for growth under
constant  bank rate  underlined there could be a case for not
raising bank rate immediately when the 7 percent unemployment
threshold was reached.”  Under the guidance introduced by Governor  Mark Carney  in
August, the MPC has said it won’t consider raising its key rate
from 0.5 percent at least until joblessness hits 7 percent. In
forecasts published this month based on no change to the
benchmark rate, it saw that threshold being hit at the end of
next year.  The pound erased its gain against the dollar after the
minutes were published before recovering. It traded at $1.6143
as of 11:37 a.m. London time, up 0.1 percent from yesterday.  Fed Signal  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  delivered a
similar message yesterday, saying the Fed will probably hold
down its  main interest rate  long after ending $85 billion in
monthly bond buying, and possibly after unemployment falls below
its threshold.  “The target for the federal funds rate is likely to remain
near zero for a considerable time after the asset purchases end,
perhaps well after” the jobless rate breaches 6.5 percent, he
said in a speech in  Washington . A “preponderance of data” will
be needed to begin removing accommodation, he said.  The BOE minutes showed that at the November meeting, the
MPC voted 9-0 to keep the benchmark unchanged and the  asset-purchase program  at 375 billion pounds ($605 billion). It also
said that the inflation and financial-stability knockouts that
form part of the guidance policy hadn’t been breached.  “Once unemployment had reached 7 percent, the committee
would reassess what it had learned about the nature of the
recovery,” the MPC said. “In the meantime, the committee would
continue to judge the appropriate stance for policy each month
in line with the guidance given in August.”  The MPC said that data over the past month had not changed
its view materially. The collective view was that productivity
was “likely to increase over the forecast period as the economy
recovered, albeit by less than demand, such that slack in the
economy was eroded only gradually.”  ‘Headwinds Persist’  “The Bank of England is stressing that significant growth
headwinds persist, there is still a lot of slack in the economy
and conditions are yet to fully normalize,” said  Howard Archer ,
an economist at IHS Global Insight in London. It “wants to give
the economy every chance to develop sustainable decent growth
and not to risk choking it off.”  The committee said a recent increase in inflation
expectations was of “little economic significance” and in the
medium term they were “well-anchored.” The pickup may have
been partly due to utility-price increases and may unwind, the
minutes said.  The MPC said the stronger pound would put downward pressure
on price growth next year, “although it was unclear how much of
this would be passed through to consumer prices given the more
favorable domestic demand environment.”  The MPC said upside risks to growth included greater
confidence in the recovery and looser credit supply, while
downside risks came from household and bank balance-sheet repair
and vulnerability to adjustments in  Europe  and some emerging-market economies.  “With the external environment unlikely, therefore, to be
an engine of U.K. growth, and given that the domestic fiscal
consolidation would continue over the forecast period at around
its current rate, a successful handover from household to
business spending would play a crucial role in underpinning the
recovery in the medium term,” the minutes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  