-- Asian Bond Markets Calm After Bernanke’s Comments Spread Ease
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-11-20T04:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/bond-risk-increases-in-asia-pacific-ex-japan-default-swaps-show.html
Investors are demanding the lowest
yield premium in five months for dollar-denominated debt in  Asia 
after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said U.S.
interest rates will probably stay low long after its bond-buying
program is finished.  Asia corporate dollar bond spreads averaged 324 basis
points more than Treasuries on Nov. 19, matching a five-month
low reached on Nov. 1, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes
show. Companies including China Mengniu Dairy Co., China XD
Plastics Co. and Bloomberry Resorts Corp. plan issues in the
U.S. currency as borrowing costs ease.  Bernanke said a “preponderance of data” would be needed
to start removing stimulus, after his nominated successor, Fed
Vice-Chairman  Janet Yellen , signaled last week the  U.S. economy 
isn’t yet strong enough to warrant cuts to the central bank’s
record asset purchase program. Average dollar bond yields for
companies in Asia fell to a more than one week low of 5.5
percent on Nov. 19, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  “Markets have been very calm since Bernanke’s comments,”
said Louisa Lam, a Hong Kong-based analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc.
“We expect dollar bonds to move in a range-bound fashion in
coming weeks, subject to news headlines, and as investors
position for 2014.”  Renewed Pledge  The  Federal Open Market Committee  publishes minutes of its
October meeting today. It last month renewed its pledge to press
on with bond purchases until the outlook for the labor market
has “improved substantially.” The Fed probably won’t taper
purchases until its March 18-19 policy meeting, according to the
median of 32 economist estimates in a Nov. 8 Bloomberg News
survey.  China Overseas Grand Oceans Group Ltd., a Hong Kong-based
developer, postponed its planned sale of five-year dollar bonds
today after marketing the notes at a spread of about 350 basis
points yesterday, people familiar with the matter said. Dalian
Wanda Commercial Properties Co. issued $600 million of 4.875
percent securities on Nov. 15 after delaying and reviving its
sale within a week.  The cost of insuring corporate and sovereign bonds from
non-payment in the Asia-Pacific region outside of  Japan  rose
today, according to traders of credit default swaps.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index increased 2.25 basis
points to 104.5 basis points as of 11:57 a.m. in Sydney,
according to Citigroup Inc. The measure is rising for a second
consecutive day after a 2.3 basis-point fall last week, the most
since the five days ended Oct. 18,  according to data provider
CMA.  Credit Risk  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan advanced 2 basis points to 132 as of
8:49 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. prices show. The benchmark, which has ranged from 117.5 to
170.3 this half, is on track for its highest close since Nov.
15, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index was little changed at 83.3
basis points as of 9:41 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup prices show.
The gauge is poised to fall 7.4 basis from Oct. 31, CMA data
show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  