-- Brain Still Harmed by Concussion After Symptoms Decline
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-11-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/brain-still-harmed-by-concussion-after-symptoms-decline.html
Four months after a mild  concussion ,
brain scans show abnormalities even though symptoms have mostly
disappeared, raising concerns that patients are at a greater
risk of reinjury than previously thought.  Scientists observed oddities in the brain’s gray matter, in
the area associated with complex tasks, reward, memory, planning
and motivation, according to a study published in the journal
 Neurology . The finding may mean the brain is still healing and
vulnerable even after symptoms fade, raising the risk that a
second concussion during this period may result in a more
serious injury, the authors wrote.  “Just because you feel ready, it doesn’t mean your body’s
fully recovered,”  Andrew Mayer , a study author and an associate
professor at the Mind Research Network in  Albuquerque , said in a
telephone interview.  Concussion risks in sports have come under increasing
scrutiny as research shows that some deaths among young football
players could have been prevented if those with head injuries
had been kept off the field, according to a 2011 study in the
journal Pediatrics. Professional sports leagues, including the
 National Football League  and  Major League Baseball , have changed
their medical protocols for treating players with head injuries
in response to concussion data, and a study published in January
in JAMA Neurology found abnormalities in the brains of former
NFL players compared with their peers.  Slower Healing  The research released yesterday showing the brain continues
to suffer the effects of a concussion even after observable
symptoms seem to have disappeared matches the experience of
other physical injuries, Mayer said. During recoveries from
burns or sprains, for example, patients stop feeling pain from
their wounds before the body is fully healed.  The study compared 50 people who had a mild concussion with
50 healthy people who were about the same age and had about the
same level of education. All the subjects were tested two weeks
after the concussion patients suffered their injuries. Four
months later, 26 of the concussion patients and 26 of people
without the injury repeated tests and brain scans.  At two weeks, concussion patients reported more issues with
memory and thinking skills as well as more headaches, dizziness,
and depression compared with the group that hadn’t been injured.
While the symptoms were reduced in the concussion group four
months after the injury, special brain scans showed an increase
of about 10 percent in abnormalities in their gray matter,
compared with the noninjured people.  3-D Scan  Mayer and his associates measured the changes using a
technique called diffusion tensor imaging scans, which create 3-D images of nerves. More conventional methods such as magnetic
resonance imaging or CT scans might not pick up these changes,
he said.  “Unfortunately, this can lead to the common misperception
that any persistent symptoms are psychological,” he said in a
statement.  It’s not clear what causes the brain abnormalities, the
researchers said. Possible explanations include changes in the
location of fluids positioned in and around brain cells, or
changes in the cells’ shape in response to damage, according to
the study, which was supported by the U.S. National Institutes
of Health.  The  Institute of Medicine  said in January it had begun an
investigation into concussions related to sports. It will review
risk factors, screening and diagnosis, as well as long-term
consequences and treatment. The Washington-based nonprofit
organization provides advice to policy makers and the public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  