-- British Virgin Island Resort Scrub Seeks Bankruptcy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-11-20T22:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/british-virgin-island-resort-scrub-island-files-for-bankruptcy.html
Scrub Island Development Group Ltd.,
the owner of a British Virgin Islands luxury resort, sought
 bankruptcy protection  to end a receivership it claims was
secretly put in place by its lender.  The company listed debt and assets of more than
$100 million each in Chapter 11 documents filed yesterday in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Tampa,  Florida , where it is based.  Scrub Island Development Group owns the island and resort
of the same name nestled into the side of the smaller of two
halves of a 230-acre private island connected by a narrow strip
of land. It’s the first resort development built in the British
Virgin Islands in more than 15 years, according to its  website .  FirstBank Puerto Rico (FBP) , the company’s lender, is owed about
$108 million, according to court documents. FirstBank initiated
a “highly secretive appointment” of a temporary receiver of
the Scrub Island Development Group’s assets without prior notice
to the company or its lawyers, the resort operator said in court
papers.  The bank’s request was granted on Nov. 1 by the Eastern
Caribbean Supreme Court in the  High Court  of Justice, according
to court documents. FirstBank can seek an extension of the
court’s ruling at a Nov. 28 hearing, the day after the temporary
receivership is set to expire.  Pursue Suit  To prevent the receiver from damaging its business and to
terminate the court order, Scrub Island Development Group sought
bankruptcy protection and said in court filings that it will
pursue a lawsuit against the bank for claims including breach of
contract, civil conspiracy, and unfair and deceptive trade
practices.  The company said the bank engaged in unauthorized contact
with an executive at affiliated company Mainsail Lodging &
Development and obtained confidential information from the
executive, who was later terminated, according to court
documents. The executive isn’t identified in the filing.  Josias N. Dewey, a lawyer for FirstBank  Puerto Rico , didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment on the resort
company’s allegations.  Mainsail Lodging & Development’s president, Joe C. Collier
III, became involved in the design and development of Scrub
Island in 2005, according to court papers. Mainsail, which has
the same address as Scrub Island Development Group and whose
president signed the company’s bankruptcy petition, was
contracted as the exclusive and sole developer and operator of
the resort.  Unsecured Creditor  Mainsail Management Group is the biggest unsecured
creditor, owed about $1.5 million, and its affiliates are also
four of the other top 10 unsecured creditors.  Scrub Island Development Group said in court papers current
assets are on the books for about $2 million and non-current
assets had a book value of $124.3 million, while an affiliate
that also filed for bankruptcy has assets worth about
$10.6 million.  The resort has 52 guest suites ranging from about 350
square feet to about 1,600 square feet and six two- to four-bedroom hillside villas ranging from 3,000 square feet to 6,000
square feet that include private chefs and attendants on
request.  In addition to its three private beaches, the amenities
include a four-tiered lagoon pool with waterfalls and swim-up
bars, a 6,000-square-foot spa, three restaurants and a 55-slip
marina that has five docks for yachts of as long as 170 feet,
according to its website.  Christopher Columbus  encountered the island in his travels
and legend has it that the isle received its name from pirates
who used to stop by to scrub the barnacles off their ships, the
resort says on its website.  The case is In re Scrub Island Development Group Ltd.,
13-15285, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Florida
(Tampa).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  