-- BSkyB Open to Wholesale Deal With BT Group’s Sports Channels
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-11-20T10:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/bskyb-open-to-wholesale-deal-with-bt-group-s-sports-channels.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) 
is open to a wholesale deal with  BT Group Plc (BT/A) ’s sports channels
after the U.K. phone company trumped BSkyB for rights to two of
the biggest European soccer contests.  “It’s a two-way thing and if we can get there with BT
we’re open to that; we’re keen to do that but we’ll have to
see,” Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Darroch said at a
conference in Barcelona today. The company already has such
contracts with Virgin Media Inc., TalkTalk Telecom Group Plc,
Microsoft Corp. and mobile operators.  BT, which signed up more than 2 million customers to its
three-month-old BT Sport channels, agreed this month to pay $1.4
billion for exclusive live rights to UEFA  Champions League  and
Europa League soccer games. Shares in BSkyB, the U.K.’s largest
pay-TV provider, fell 11 percent on Nov. 11 after the
announcement. Money saved from not paying for the Champions
League will be invested into new content at BSkyB, Darroch said.  “ Sky Sports  is in great shape; we’re clear on our
priorities,” Darroch said at the conference organized by Morgan
Stanley. “Sports is just one of the things we do.”  BSkyB has aired top U.K. soccer games since the Premier
League’s inception in 1992. Darroch said the Champions League
accounts for less than 3 percent of viewing on Sky Sports, and
he emphasized the channels’ airing of cricket, tennis and golf
tournaments as well as Formula 1 races and other soccer matches.  ‘Great Shape’  BSkyB, in which  Rupert Murdoch  owns 39 percent, has rights
to air 116 matches of the 2013-14 Premier League, the most
watched national soccer league, while BT has rights for 38
matches.  “Obviously the Premier League’s really an important part
of our sports offering, but the journey on Sky since Day One is
to broaden and do new things,” Darroch said when asked how
concerned he was that Sky could eventually lose Premier League
rights.  BSkyB customers are watching more entertainment than
sports, and the Premier League is a small yet important part of
that offering, he said.  BT started three sports channels in August and is trying to
attract Internet customers by making those channels free for its
broadband subscribers. Prices for broadcast rights have
escalated, with a four-year deal reached in 2012 by BSkyB’s
German affiliate to show the Bundesliga soccer matches boosting
average annual income from the German rights to a record 628
million euros ($849 million).  Away from sports, BSkyB is focusing on getting customers to
subscribe to more of its products, such as Sky HD; Sky Go,
allowing users to watch Sky on mobiles and laptops; and Sky On
Demand, in addition to broadband, phone and TV offerings.  “With pricing we’re probably lagging the market a bit,”
Darroch said. “The opportunity for us to take pricing up over
time is strong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  