-- BT Sees Champions League as Step to Soccer Dominance
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-11-21T08:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/bt-sees-champions-league-as-step-to-soccer-dominance.html
BT Group Plc (BT/A) , the phone company that
wrestled TV rights to the two biggest contests in European
soccer from  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , said that those
contracts could position it to bid for more content.  The carrier has the opportunity to increase its rights for
 England ’s Premier League soccer in the future after winning an
exclusive deal to air  UEFA ’s Champions League and Europa League
games for three years starting in the 2015-16 season, Chief
Executive Officer Gavin Patterson said yesterday at an investor
conference in Barcelona.  “What we’ve been able to do in getting the Champions
League, it’s given us better optionality into the Premier
League,” he said. “We can take different positions, we’re not
necessarily boxed in.”  Going more aggressively after the top U.K. soccer games
would allow BT to add further pressure on BSkyB, which has aired
those matches since the Premier League’s inception in 1992. BT,
which signed up more than 2 million customers to its three-month-old BT Sport channels, already owns the rights to 38
Premier League games, soccer matches in  Italy ,  France  and
 Brazil , rugby competitions, and tennis tournaments.  This month, BT agreed to pay $1.4 billion for  Champions
League  and Europa League. Shares in BSkyB, the U.K.’s largest
pay-TV provider, fell 11 percent on Nov. 11 after the
announcement. London-based BT, which offers most of BT Sport
free to broadband customers, will charge a “modest”
subscription fee for the European games, Patterson said.  BT declined less than 1 percent to 375.10 pence at 8:43
a.m. in  London . The shares have risen 62 percent this year.
BSkyB shares dropped less than 1 percent to 830.50 pence in
London.  Attracting Customers  BT is able to fund the spending on sports rights as its
rollout of fiber-optic broadband ends and the company cuts costs
in other parts of the business, Patterson said at the conference
organized by Morgan Stanley.  “The Champions League and Europa League rights enhance the
current strategy significantly and will bring in incremental
broadband customers,” Patterson said. “They strengthen our
wholesale  revenue , they stretch our ad revenue and they will
make a big difference on pubs and clubs.”  BSkyB is open to a wholesale deal with BT’s sports
channels, CEO Jeremy Darroch said at the Barcelona event. The
company already has such contracts with Virgin Media Inc.,
TalkTalk Telecom Group Plc, Microsoft Corp. and mobile carriers.  “ Sky Sports  is in great shape; we’re clear on our
priorities,” Darroch said. “Sports is just one of the things
we do.”  One Percent  At the same conference, commercial broadcaster  ITV Plc (ITV)  said
losing broadcast rights won’t hurt advertising and the 299
million-pound ($482 million) price per season paid by BT was too
high.  “We’re very clear-eyed about what sport does for us and
over the years we have a very sophisticated model to decide the
value,” CEO Adam Crozier said. “We got to the level where it
didn’t make financial sense.”  ITV plans to invest in other “high-quality content,”
Crozier said. The UEFA Champions League and Europa League games
that BT won this month typically represent less than 1 percent
of viewing. Other programs can achieve that at a fraction of the
cost, he said.  Patterson said BT could consider offers for its global
enterprise business, if a company makes a bid showing its worth
more to the buyer than to BT.  “Ultimately is there a price on global services? Never say
never,” Patterson said.  BT is trying to increase its  credit rating  to BBB+, which
would require cutting the company’s net debt to 4 billion pounds
($6.4 billion) to 5 billion pounds, Patterson said. That may
happen in two or three years, he said.  Standard & Poor’s  now
rates the company one level lower at BBB.  “That’s our focus,” Patterson said. “Reducing debt,
continuing to invest in the business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in Barcelona at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  