-- Bumi Delays $501 Million Bakrie Exit Over Tan Funding Concern
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-11-20T20:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/bumi-delays-501-million-bakrie-exit-over-tan-funding-concern.html
Bumi Plc (BUMI) , a producer of coal over
whom its founding investors have been fighting for control,
delayed a $501 million plan by  Indonesia ’s Bakrie family to exit
the company.  Part of that plan -- the sale of the Bakries’ stake in Bumi
to the company’s chairman, Samin Tan -- was postponed because
the required financing isn’t in place, Bumi said today in a
statement. The London-based company agreed to extend to Nov. 29
the deadline by which Tan must confirm he can fund the $223
million deal.  The Bakries are trying to disentangle themselves from Bumi
after a dispute with another founding investor,  Nathaniel Rothschild , a scion of the Rothschild banking dynasty. As a
result of the holdup on the Tan purchase, Bumi said a Dec. 4
shareholder vote on the Bakries’ overall exit from the business
will be adjourned.  Bumi said Tan has made “significant progress” in
arranging the financing. Tan said earlier today in an e-mail he
had secured bank funds to buy the 24 percent stake.  “We heard this morning that Tan had the money, we hear
from the company this afternoon that he doesn’t -- we’d like to
know who’s telling the truth,” Rothschild, 42, said by phone.  Rothschild, who owns about 21 percent of the  voting rights 
for Bumi’s stock, has argued against the sale to Tan. Should the
deal go ahead, Tan’s Bumi interest would double to 48 percent.  Bumi, which sold shares in an initial public offering in
London in 2010, owns stakes in two Indonesian coal suppliers. As
part of the Bakries’ exit plan, Bumi has agreed to sell its 29
percent holding in Jakarta-based PT Bumi Resources to them for
$501 million. If that deal is completed, Bumi will be left with
a 76 percent holding in PT Berau Coal Holdings.  Family Funding  Bumi had yet to receive proof that the Bakries can finance
their share of the transaction, Chief Executive Officer Nick von
Schirnding said on Nov. 8. Funding has been available since
January in the form of a “direct cash investment” from the
family,’’ Chris Fong, a Bakries spokesman, said the same day.  Investors should oppose the separation plan, Pensions &
Investment Research Consultants Ltd., a U.K. adviser to
institutional investors, said in a report dated yesterday.  Changes to the proposed transaction from its original form
last year, uncertainty over how Tan and the Bakries will finance
it and a failure to recover $173 million of missing funds
underpin the voting recommendations, PIRC said.  ISS Governance Services recommended shareholders vote to
approve the deal, according to a report dated yesterday.  Bumi rose 2.4 percent to close at 211.50 pence in  London 
trading, valuing the company at 510 million pounds ($821
million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  