-- Canada’s Currency Gains Versus Peers Amid Fed Bets
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-11-21T02:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/canada-dollar-rises-versus-major-peers-on-u-s-stimulus-outlook.html
(Corrects date of economic data release in 13th paragraph
of story originally published Nov. 20.)  The Canadian dollar rose versus most
major peers after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
the U.S. central bank won’t reduce the stimulus that’s spurred
global risk appetite without a “preponderance of data” showing
improvement in the economy of  Canada ’s biggest trade partner.  The  currency  remained higher as Bank of Canada Governor
Stephen Poloz told Canadian  lawmakers  their nation’s economy
still needs stimulus. The greenback narrowed its loss after
minutes of the Fed’s October meeting showed policy makers said
they might reduce bond purchases “in coming months” as the
economy improves. Bernanke said yesterday in a speech the Fed
will probably keep interest rates low long after ending monthly
bond purchases.  “The Canadian dollar has kept pace with the  U.S. dollar 
today, and that’s because the Fed was optimistic about the  U.S.
economy ,” Adam Button, a currency analyst at forexlive.com,
said by phone from Toronto. “Better growth in the U.S. will
spill across the border to Canada.”  The loonie, as Canada’s currency is known for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, gained 0.2 percent to C$1.0453
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It strengthened as much as
0.3 percent, the most since Nov. 13. The currency has traded
this month between C$1.0526 and C$1.0398. One Canadian dollar
buys 95.67 U.S. cents.  Canada’s currency rose against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg except  South Africa ’s rand.  Canadian Bonds  Benchmark 10-year Canadian-government bonds dropped,
pushing  yields  up eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point,
to 2.64 percent, the highest in a week. The price of the 1.5
percent security maturing in June 2023 lost 59 cents to C$90.53.  The  Bank of Canada  sold C$3.3 billion ($3.2 billion) of
two-year notes to stronger-than-average demand. The debt due in
February 2016 drew an average yield of 1.146 percent and
attracted bids for 2.82 times the amount offered. The past five
auctions yielded an average of 1.247 percent, and the average
coverage ratio was 2.69 times. The last sale of two-year notes,
on Oct. 16, yielded 1.28 percent and had a 2.80 coverage ratio.  Current two-year note yields declined one basis point to
1.12 percent.  The  difference  in yields between Canadian and U.S. two-year
bonds, which gauges the central bank’s policy rate, widened to
85 basis points, the most in almost a month, reflecting a faster
rise in Canadian yields.  Appropriate Stimulus  The Bank of Canada’s Poloz, testifying in Ottawa, told the
Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce the amount of
monetary stimulus now in place in the Canadian economy remains
appropriate, reiterating comments he made last month. He said
the outlook for the economy is “roughly the same” from
October, according to the text of his remarks posted on the
central bank’s website.  At its Oct. 23 meeting, the central bank dropped language
in place for more than a year about the need to raise  interest
rates , citing low inflation.  The lower forecast for inflation “was the key takeaway
from the October meeting,” Greg T. Moore, a currency strategist
at Toronto-Dominion Bank, said by telephone from Toronto. “The
risks tied to the rate outlook are more neutral, and that fits
with dropping the tightening bias.”  The central bank has held its benchmark  interest rate  at 1
percent since 2010 to support the economy.  Consumer Prices  Canadian consumer  prices  rose 0.8 percent in October from a
year earlier, trailing a 1.1 percent gain the previous month,
economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast before the government
issues the data on Nov. 22.  The U.S. consumer-price index dropped 0.1 percent in
October, after a 0.2 percent gain the prior month, a Labor
Department report showed today in  Washington . The median
forecast of 85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for no
change. Excluding volatile food and fuel, the so-called core
measure rose 0.1 percent.  The U.S. dollar extended gains after the Fed released
minutes of its Oct. 29-30 meeting. The central bank buys $85
billion of bonds a month to push down long-term yields and spur
economic growth. The purchases tend to debase the greenback as
they spur risk appetite.  Policy makers “generally expected that the data would
prove consistent with the committee’s outlook for ongoing
improvement in labor market conditions and would thus warrant
trimming the pace of purchases in coming months,” according to
the record of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s meeting.  ‘Nothing New’  “There’s been a lot of water under the bridge since the
meeting,”  John Curran , a senior vice president at CanadianForex
Ltd., an online foreign exchange dealer, said by phone from
Toronto. “There’s nothing new under the sun today. Look to the
New Year for any tapering.”  Four of five investors expect the U.S. central bank to
delay a decision to start slowing the purchases until March 2014
or later, with just 5 percent looking for a move next month,
according to the latest Bloomberg Global Poll. Only one in 20
said reductions will begin at the Fed’s December meeting,
according to the poll yesterday of investors, traders and
analysts who are Bloomberg subscribers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  