-- Canada Stocks Drop as Gold Shares Slump on Fed Concern
-- B y   A u b r e y   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-11-20T21:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/canada-stocks-little-changed-amid-sales-data-before-fed-minutes.html
Canadian  stocks  fell for a third day
as gold companies tumbled after U.S. Federal Reserve officials
said they may reduce economic stimulus “in coming months” as
the economy improves.  Semafo Inc. lost 8.7 percent as the price of gold
plummeted. Maple Leaf Foods Inc. fell 1 percent as the food
producer was said to have drawn bids for its bread unit. Trican
Well Service Ltd. added 1.7 percent after the pressure pumping
company’s rating was upgraded by  Raymond James .  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  dropped 12.76
points, or 0.1 percent, to 13,430.01 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The
gauge has climbed 8 percent this year.  “There’s some uncertainty now whether the tapering will
begin sooner,” Tim Lazaris, chief investment officer at Red Sky
Capital Management Ltd., said by phone from Toronto. “Commodity
prices are dropping here post the Fed minutes, primarily gold
and that’s taking the materials sector down.”  Fed officials said they might reduce their $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases “in coming months” as the economy
improves, minutes of their last meeting show. Policy makers will
probably pare that pace to $70 billion at their March 18-19
meeting, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
conducted Nov. 8. The U.S. is  Canada ’s biggest trading partner.  Five of 10 main S&P/TSX  industries  dropped on trading
volume 1.1 percent above the 30-day average, with raw-materials
sliding 2.2 percent.  Gold Slumps  The S&P/TSX Gold Index tumbled 3.8 percent, with all 24
members retreating. Gold for immediate delivery lost 2.5 percent
to $1,244.20 an ounce, the lowest level since July 10.
Speculation that policy makers may reduce monetary stimulus in
upcoming months curbed demand for the metal as a hedge against
inflation. Semafo plunged 8.7 percent to C$2.84 while Dundee
Precious Metals Inc. dropped 8.5 percent to C$3.56.  Maple Leaf Foods fell 1 percent to C$16.43. The Toronto-based food producer has drawn bids for its bread unit from Grupo
Bimbo SAB, Flowers Foods Inc. and several private-equity firms,
three people with knowledge of the matter said.  Maple Leaf, which owns 90 percent of Canada Bread Co., said
in October it would explore options for the stake, including a
possible sale as it divests assets to focus on its meat
business.  Energy producers gained 0.6 percent for the best group
performance. Tourmaline Oil Corp. jumped 3.4 percent to $41.92.  Trican Well Service added 1.7 percent to C$12.40 after
Raymond James equity analyst Andrew Bradford raised his rating
of the pressure pump producer’s stock to outperform from market
perform. Bradford made a similar upgrade to Calfrac Well
Services Ltd. The provider of oilfield equipment gained 1.4
percent to C$31.60.  Air Canada (AC/B)  climbed 1.8 percent to C$6.68 after the
Montreal-based carrier began discussions with Cargojet, a
Canadian freight company, to explore strategic commercial
cooperation in an attempt to expand the reach of both carriers’
air cargo services domestically and internationally. The
partnership would increase revenues and reduce operating costs,
according to a statement released by the two companies today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aubrey Pringle in  New York  at 
 apringle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  