-- Harper Ex-Chief of Staff Broke Law, Canada Police Allege
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-11-20T19:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/canada-police-say-wright-may-have-bribed-duffy-over-expenses.html
Nigel Wright, Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s former chief of staff, broke the law by helping a
senator repay about C$90,000 ($86,150) of improperly claimed
expenses, Canada’s federal police allege.  Mike Duffy, formerly a senator for the governing
 Conservative Party , is also alleged to have committed a crime by
accepting the funds, according to documents filed today. The
 Royal Canadian Mounted Police  allege Duffy and Wright committed
offenses under the sections of the Criminal Code dealing with
bribery of public officials, fraud and breach of trust,
according to the documents. Neither of the men have been charged
and none of the allegations have been proved in court.  The Senate controversy has dogged Harper’s Conservatives,
driving down the party’s poll ratings to the lowest since he
took office in 2006. Harper has denied knowledge of the payment
to Duffy.  “I believe that the controversy was an embarrassment for
the government, and that Mr. Wright believed that Senator Duffy
morally and ethically should not have filed the expense
claims,” Corporal Greg Horton, an investigator with the Royal
Canadian Mounted Police, said in an application to the Ontario
Court of Justice to obtain documents connected to the case.  Wright, a former managing director at Toronto-based
private-equity firm  Onex Corp. (OCX) , resigned as Harper’s chief of
staff in May following the disclosure he paid Duffy to help
cover ineligible expense claims related to housing.  Duffy Speech  “My intention was always to secure repayment of funds owed
to taxpayers,” Wright said in an e-mailed statement provided by
his lawyer, Peter Mantas. “I acted within the scope of my
duties and remain confident that my actions were lawful.”  In a speech in the Senate last month, Duffy said he didn’t
break the upper house’s rules for expenses, and said he was the
victim of an “avalanche of untruths and character
assassination.”  Janice Payne, an Ottawa lawyer listed in today’s documents
as having represented Duffy at the time of the payment, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment on the
allegations. Donald Bayne, a lawyer who has also represented
Duffy in the matter, didn’t immediately return a similar call.  Deloitte Audit  Duffy agreed to repay the money under conditions agreed
with the prime minister’s office, including that Duffy be
withdrawn as the subject of an audit by Deloitte LLP, Horton
alleged. The conditions also included an acknowledgment that
Duffy hadn’t violated the senate’s residency requirements, and
that Conservative lawmakers speak about the matter with
“agreed-upon media lines,” Horton alleged in the court
documents.  The prime minister’s office “influenced” three
Conservative senators reviewing Duffy’s expense claims to change
a report on the spending “to reflect wording that the PMO
wanted,” Horton alleged.  Canada ’s Senate earlier this month suspended Duffy and two
other former Conservative senators, Pamela Wallin and Patrick
Brazeau, over allegations they improperly claimed expenses.
Wallin and Brazeau have also rejected the allegations.  “The allegations are about an arrangement between Nigel
Wright and Mike Duffy,” Carl Vallee, a spokesman for Harper,
said in an e-mail. “Because of their inappropriate actions,
Mike Duffy has been suspended without pay as a Senator and Nigel
Wright no longer works for the government. We have responded
fully and freely to every request for assistance, including any
and all documents requested.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  