-- Canada’s Poloz Says Substantial Stimulus Is Appropriate
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-11-20T22:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/canada-s-poloz-says-substantial-stimulus-remains-appropriate.html
Bank of  Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz said the amount of monetary stimulus now in place in the
economy remains appropriate, reiterating comments he made at an
interest-rate decision last month.  “The Bank judged on October 23 that the substantial
monetary policy stimulus in place remained appropriate and
decided to maintain the target for the overnight rate at 1
percent,” Poloz told the Senate banking committee in Ottawa
today. “Since then, while some new data points have been
released, our outlook remains roughly the same.”  Canada’s dollar has weakened against its U.S. counterpart
after Poloz’s last decision surprised investors by removing
language about the need to raise the 1 percent policy interest
rate. Today’s testimony reiterated that “significant slack”
remains in the economy and growth is being held back by sluggish
business investment and exports.  The dollar’s strength has cut into the profit margins of
exporters, who face other difficulties in remaining globally
competitive, said Poloz. Business spending will account for more
of economic growth as the global economy heals, he said.  Indebted Canadian households are “ready for a break”
after years of leading economic growth and adding debt, Poloz
said. The housing market isn’t headed for a bubble based on
domestic conditions, he said, responding to a question about
young families with mortgages that it’s “inevitable” that
 interest rates  will rise at some point.  Poloz also told lawmakers that “we would like inflation to
be higher” than where it is now. Consumer  prices  advanced 1.1
percent in September from a year earlier according to  Statistics
Canada , near the bottom of the central bank’s 1 percent to 3
percent target band.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  