-- Car Bombing Kills 11 Egyptian Soldiers in Sinai Peninsula
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-11-20T14:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/car-bombing-kills-10-egyptian-soldiers-in-sinai-peninsula.html
At least 11 Egyptian soldiers were
killed when a car bomb hit their bus in the  Sinai Peninsula , in
the latest attack on security forces battling insurgents.  About 34 others were wounded when a suicide bomber rammed
his explosives-laden car into one of two buses carrying off-duty
soldiers, Mohamed Rady, a police officer at the North Sinai
Security Directorate, said today by phone, citing preliminary
investigations. The soldiers were traveling from the border town
of Rafah to Cairo, he said.  Violence has surged in  Egypt  since the army deposed the
country’s first democratically elected president, Mohamed Mursi,
on July 3. At least 25 members of the security forces were
killed in an ambush in August, and gunmen have carried out near-daily attacks on checkpoints in the region since.  An Islamist militant group, Ansar Bayt al-Maqdis, is
suspected of carrying out the attack in retaliation for the
killing of three of its leaders by security forces, state-run
Ahram Gate reported, citing an unidentified security official.  The armed forces will continue to fight “sinister
terrorism and eradicate the champions of darkness, sedition and
extremism,” army spokesman Ahmed Mohamed Ali said on the
military’s official Facebook page.  Two Fronts  The struggle against Sinai militants, with its echoes of a
campaign against Islamist insurgents in the 1990s, coincides
with the military-backed interim government’s crackdown on the
Muslim Brotherhood, which propelled Mursi to power.  Many Brotherhood leaders, including the ousted president,
have been detained and face charges including murder. Security
forces have killed more than 1,000 people, most of them Mursi
supporters, in clashes since August.  In the latest outbreak of violence, two people died
yesterday, the Health Ministry said, when security forces
scuffled with protesters in Cairo at rallies commemorating 45
people who died in a 2011 confrontation with security forces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  