-- Carney’s Escape Velocity Seen Out of Reach for U.K.: Economy
-- B y   J o s h u a   R o b i n s o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-11-20T11:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/carney-s-escape-velocity-seen-out-of-reach-for-u-k-economy.html
Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney ’s mission to get the U.K. economy to “escape velocity”
has not yet succeeded, economists said.  Less than a third of 21 economists said the recovery has
reached that level, with 71 percent disagreeing, according to a
Bloomberg monthly survey published today. They split on the
success of Carney’s forward guidance and whether he made the
policy less clear by offering two separate forecasts for
unemployment this month.  Britain’s economy grew faster than any other Group of Seven
nation in the third quarter, and the Organisation for Economic
Cooperation and Development raised its forecasts for the U.K.
yesterday. Gross domestic product is about 2.5 percent below its
pre-recession peak, and Carney has said he’ll keep  interest
rates  at a record low until the economy is growing sustainably
and the recovery is assured.  “We’ve reached escape velocity when the economy no longer
needs emergency levels of interest rates, and that’s not the
case right now,” said  Philip Shaw , chief economist at Investec
Securities in London. “Growth doesn’t have enough traction
behind it to withstand higher interest rates.”  MPC Votes  The Monetary Policy Committee voted unanimously to keep its
benchmark rate unchanged this month. In the minutes of the
meeting, published today, the MPC said there may be a case for
keeping the rate at 0.5 percent even after unemployment falls to
the 7 percent threshold set under guidance.  “There were uncertainties over the durability of the
recovery,” the MPC said. “With the proviso that medium-term
inflation expectations remained sufficiently well anchored, the
projections for growth under constant bank rate underlined there
could be a case for not raising  bank rate  immediately when the 7
percent unemployment threshold was reached.”  The pound erased its advance against the dollar after the
minutes were released before recovering. It was trading at
$1.6153 as of 11 a.m. London time, up 0.2 percent from
yesterday.  In the Bloomberg survey, the median estimate of economists
is for U.K. GDP to rise 1.4 percent this year and 2.3 percent
both next year and 2015. The projections are broadly similar to
last month. Inflation is seen averaging 2.6 percent this year,
2.3 percent in 2014 and 2.1 percent the following year, close to
the BOE’s 2 percent target.  Guidance Divisions  Carney said in January, before moving from the  Bank of
Canada , that central banks must secure “escape velocity” for
their economies.  Economists in the survey split 50-50 on whether guidance,
which he introduced in August a month after joining the BOE, has
been successful.  Economists were also divided on whether the BOE’s decision
to provide unemployment forecasts based on both market
expectations for interest rates and constant rates in its
quarterly Inflation Report this month made guidance more or less
clear. Under market rates, the BOE sees the 7 percent threshold
being hit in the third quarter of 2015. Under constant rates,
the level is reached at the end of 2014.  The MPC’s pledge on keeping policy unchanged is subject to
so-called knockouts linked to  inflation  and financial stability.
Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at Rabobank
International in London, said she would have preferred if Carney
had adopted a similar model to the  European Central Bank , where
 Mario Draghi  has pledged to keep rates at current levels or
lower for an “extended period.”  “The whole of their forward guidance has been unclear to
most people,” Foley said. “The addition of the unemployment
criteria and then all of the knockouts too has had the impact of
confusing people.”  OECD Forecasts  The OECD said yesterday it expects monetary policy to
remain accommodative for most of the next two years and should
begin to normalize in the last quarter of 2015. It sees U.K.
economic growth accelerating to 2.4 percent in 2014 from 1.4
percent this year.  The OECD also said that Britain needs to boost the supply
of property to reduce the risk of a bubble as the housing market
strengthens. Fifty-five percent of 22 economists in the
Bloomberg survey said the the market is at risk of overheating.
Still, just one of 20 economists said they expect housing to
trigger the financial stability knockout on guidance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Robinson in  London  at 
 jrobinson37@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  