-- Cash America to Pay $19 Million Over Federal Consumer Claims
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-11-20T21:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/cash-america-to-pay-19-million-over-cfpb-debt-collection-claims.html
Cash America International Inc. (CSH) , a
Texas-based payday lender and pawn shop operator, will pay $19
million to settle U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
complaints over its debt-collection practices and rates charged
military service members.  The settlement announced by the consumer bureau in a
statement today ends a probe, which the company disclosed in an
Oct. 28 regulatory filing, that stemmed from alleged robo-signing of documents used in lawsuits filed by Cash America in
 Ohio . The bureau also accused the company of violating a federal
law limiting  interest rates  on loans to members of the military
and their families.  Cash America also destroyed documents even after it ordered
an end to the practice, deleted calls it had recorded with
consumers and directed employees to limit information they
provided to federal supervisors, the agency said. The practices
came to light in CFPB’s 2012 examination of the company.  “We are also sending a clear message today to all
companies under our watch that impeding a CFPB exam by
destroying documents, withholding records, and instructing
employees to mislead examiners is unacceptable,” CFPB Director
 Richard Cordray  said in an e-mailed statement.  The company will pay a $5 million civil penalty for its
conduct, which occurred at various times between 2008 and 2013,
and refund $8 million to consumers. Separate from those amounts,
it has already reimbursed $6 million to consumers.  “Now that we have completed the initial CFPB review
process and entered into this settlement, we will continue to
focus on serving our customers while working to develop
additional compliance programs as required by the CFPB,” Daniel
R. Feehan,  Fort Worth , Texas-based Cash America’s chief
executive officer, said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  