-- CFTC Agenda to Slow as Senate Panel Eyes 2014 for Confirmations
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-11-20T21:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/cftc-agenda-to-slow-as-senate-panel-eyes-2014-for-confirmations.html
The top U.S. derivatives regulator
is headed for a slowdown after the Senate panel responsible for
confirming President  Barack Obama ’s picks for the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission said it won’t act this year.  The Senate Agriculture Committee in 2014 will consider the
nomination of Timothy Massad to replace  Gary Gensler  as chairman
of the agency overseeing swap-trading by Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM) , the panel’s chairman said. The
agency, which is designed to have five members, will dwindle to
just one Democrat and one Republican next year.  “We are talking about doing this after the first of the
year,” said Senator  Debbie Stabenow , the Michigan Democrat and
chairman of the agriculture panel that must hold a hearing on
and approve CFTC nominees before they can advance to the full
Senate. “We are going to take our time and make sure we give
these nominees a comprehensive and complete vetting.”  The confirmation process comes as the agency tries to flex
its powers under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, which gave the
commission oversight of the $693 trillion swaps market after
largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  Massad’s nomination and the pending nomination of J. Christopher Giancarlo, an executive at New York-based inter-dealer broker  GFI Group Inc. (GFIG)  to replace Jill E. Sommers, a
Republican, could face other hurdles in the Senate which has
split along party lines.  The third vacancy will open by the end of the year, when
 Bart Chilton , a Democrat, has said he’ll resign. Sharon Y. Bowen, a securities lawyer at Latham & Watkins LLP in New York,
is under consideration by the Obama administration to fill
Chilton’s spot, according to four people in the financial
industry.  “It’s an important time at the CFTC and so it’s critical
that we thoroughly examine these candidates before we make any
decisions,” Stabenow said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  