-- Chicago Swamps Centenarian With $43,000 Water Bill
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-11-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/chicago-swamps-centenarian-with-43-000-water-bill.html
Hawkins Fairley, a World War II
veteran who celebrates his 100th birthday tomorrow, is an
involuntary soldier in  Chicago ’s effort to return to fiscal
stability, dollar by dollar -- or in his case, 43,113 of them.  That’s what the city says the retired steelworker owes in
water bills that have multiplied from $3,200 three years ago,
and that Fairley says he doesn’t owe. The disputed charge, which
the city has been trying to collect since 2008, is one scene of 
a larger financial drama in Chicago, which has the worst-funded
pension system among large U.S. cities and a projected $339 
million deficit.  Fitch Ratings  lowered its credit three steps
on Nov. 8 because of “unsustainable” retirement-fund burdens.  Unless Illinois lawmakers enact pension changes that reduce
costs, Chicago’s budget solution will fall on individual
residents such as Fairley, who will collectively fill the
financial abyss.  “That’s what life is -- fight, fight, fight,” said
Fairley, who as widower moved out of his South Side home in
April and into a nursing-care facility. “And when you die,
you’re still fighting.”  Chicago’s push to double water rates by 2015 is one step
Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  has taken to repair the utility as well as
the finances of the third-most-populous U.S. city. Emanuel is
discussing the future of his and other municipalities today at
The Year Ahead: 2014, a two-day conference in Chicago hosted by
Bloomberg LP.  Doubling Taxes  Emanuel has said the city will have to double property
taxes or eliminate vital services if lawmakers don’t restructure
pension laws so Chicago can avoid in 2015 almost doubling its
required contribution, to $1.2 billion. Even those steps might
not be enough.  “There’s simply no way that we can cut or tax our way out
of this crisis and still leave Chicago a good place to work and
live,” Emanuel, a 53-year-old Democrat who served as President
 Barack Obama ’s chief of staff, said in a budget presentation to
the city council on Oct. 23.  Chicago’s ills reflect a municipal malaise coast to coast.
Economies in one third of U.S. metropolitan areas will decline
or stagnate this year, worse than in 2012, according to a report
this week by the Washington-based U.S. Conference of Mayors.
While the mounting pressure on Chicago so far hasn’t attained
the level that led to  Detroit ’s filing the largest municipal
bankruptcy in U.S. history in July, the budget mess worsens with
each passing year. Unfunded pension liabilities in the city’s
four retirement plans have soared to $20 billion, a 265 percent
increase in the past decade.  Rough Repair  “There are no easy fixes,” the Civic Federation, a
nonprofit research group that specializes in state and municipal
finance, said in an analysis released Nov. 13.  All four of the city’s retirement funds reported steep
drops in funding levels this year, and two face insolvency
within 20 years unless they are restructured, the report said.  That’s where Fairley and many thousands of other Chicagoans
figure into the financial solution: raising smaller taxes and
fees and going after unpaid bills in the absence of the state
legislature’s coming to the rescue. For instance, the mayor’s
proposed $8.7 billion budget includes a proposal to raise the
cigarette tax by 75 cents per pack, the highest levy among U.S.
cities. That would generate $9.4 million in 2014, according to
estimates.  Emanuel’s budget also would raise parking fees and costs to
recover impounded vehicles.  Water Mystery  While the dispute over Fairley’s water bill centers on
money, it also extends to what actually flowed or didn’t flow
from the spigots in his now-empty brick two-flat home.  “Where the hell did all that water go?” asked William
Spielberger, Fairley’s attorney.  Emanuel’s communications director, Sarah Hamilton, referred
questions to Tom LaPorte, spokesman for the city’s Department of
Water Management. LaPorte said the department is
“re-investigating the reported leak.”  “The Department of Water Management has been working with
this resident for years and will continue to try to get him on a
payment plan that works,” LaPorte said in a statement.  Court filings record a dramatic increase in Fairley’s bills
from the water department: $3,188 in May 2010; $7,462 the
following September; and $14,190 in May 2011, the month
Emanuel took office.  Spielberger appealed to the City of Chicago Municipal
Court, and an administrative law judge ruled in October 2011
that Fairley did not owe the amounts billed. Five weeks later,
in November 2011, he received another bill, this one for
$17,885.  Spielberger said a plumber he hired to examine the water
line into Fairley’s home found nothing. Fairley’s water bill has
peaked at $43,113.  Whatever is happening with his pipes, Chicago itself
continues to leak.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  