-- China Stocks Rise to One-Month High on Financial Reform
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-11-20T08:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/china-stock-index-futures-rise-on-outlook-for-financial-reform.html
China’s  benchmark  stock index rose
to a one-month high after the central bank elaborated on plans
to loosen controls on financial markets. Chinese equities in
 Hong Kong  rallied for a fifth day to erase losses for the year.  Haitong Securities Co. and China Construction Bank Corp.
led gains for brokerages and lenders in  Shanghai . Air China Ltd.
and China Southern Airlines Co. surged more than 3 percent in
Hong Kong and Shanghai after the Shanghai Securities News
reported the government may issue airspace-management rules.
China Life Insurance Co. rose to a nine-month high in Hong Kong
after Citigroup Inc. said its earnings may exceed estimates.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 0.6 percent to
2,206.61 at the close, the highest since Oct. 22. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  rose 0.6 percent to 11,437.44 for a
five-day, 11 percent gain, the biggest such advance since
October 2011. The central bank’s plans include a wider trading
band for the  yuan  and the removal of investment caps for foreign
money managers, central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  wrote in an
article. Accelerating yuan convertibility was among key reform
proposals decided at a meeting of the Communist Party, which
plans to achieve the target by 2020.  “The end of the intervention in the  currency market  could
attract more funds into Chinese shares and boost liquidity,”
said Zhang Yanbing, analyst at Zheshang Securities Co. in
Shanghai.  Widening Gap  The CSI 300 Index advanced 0.5 percent to 2,424.85. Trading
volumes on the Shanghai index increased 1.9 percent above the
30-day average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Shanghai index has fallen 2.8 percent this year as slowing
growth curbed corporate earnings. The measure trades at 8.7
times projected profit, compared with the five-year average
multiple of 12.5, Bloomberg data showed.  China’s largest package of economic reforms since the 1990s
is getting a bigger vote of confidence from foreign investors
than from the nation’s own citizens. The H-shares gauge has
jumped 6.2 percent, more than twice the Shanghai gauge, since
policy makers led by President  Xi Jinping  pledged to ease the
one-child policy and liberalize interest rates on Nov. 15. That
left mainland shares valued at a 5.8 percent discount, the most
in three years, according to the Hang Seng China AH Premium
Index.  Foreign investors are less bearish because China’s new
policies will make long-term economic growth more sustainable,
said Chen Li, a strategist at UBS AG in Shanghai.  Yuan Reform  China Construction Bank, the nation’s second-biggest
lender, rose 0.9 percent to 4.38 yuan. Haitong Securities, the
second-largest listed brokerage, added 1 percent to 11.58 yuan.  The People’s Bank of China will “basically” end normal
intervention in the currency market and broaden the yuan’s daily
trading limit in an “orderly way,” Zhou wrote in an article in
a guidebook explaining reforms outlined last week following a
Communist Party meeting. Quotas under the Qualified Foreign
Institutional Investor program will be expanded and then
scrapped, he wrote.  Liberalization of  interest rates  was also among the key
reform proposals decided on at the Third Plenum and published by
the official Xinhua News Agency on Nov. 15. China is reforming
its policies in an effort to bolster an economy that’s heading
for its weakest annual expansion since 1999.  China Life Insurance advanced 0.6 percent to HK$24.35,
capping a 19 percent jump over five days. Ping An Insurance
gained 2.2 percent to HK$71.40. China Life’s fundamentals have
bottomed and its earnings may surprise “on the upside” in the
second half of this year, Citigroup analyst Darwin Lam wrote in
a note dated yesterday after the insurer’s management spoke at
financial conference.  More Upside  “Despite a notable share price rebound of late, we believe
 China  Life still offers good relative value and remains quite
under-owned by investors,” Lam, who has a buy rating on stock,
wrote. China Life’s shares were also upgraded at Bank of America
Corp. and China International Capital Corp.  A measure of industrial shares in the CSI 300 gained 1.3
percent for the second-steepest advance among 10 industry
groups. Air China, the biggest international carrier, gained 3.5
percent in Shanghai and 3.7 percent in Hong Kong, while China
Southern, the largest domestic carrier, advanced 3.6 percent in
Shangahi and 6.3 percent in Hong Kong.  Shanghai Securities News reported China may issue airspace
management rules as early as the end of this year. Air China and
other carriers have expanded their fleets as economic growth
spurs  travel demand  in China, where the  air force  allots only 20
percent of air space to civil aviation. Traffic congestion is
set to worsen as the nation’s commercial aircraft fleet is
projected to double in the next seven years.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index slid 0.3 percent in  New
York  yesterday, while the db X-trackers Harvest CSI 300 lost 1.5
percent. S&P Dow Jones Indices is starting an exchange-traded
fund that will allow traders in China to invest in the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  