-- China Has ‘High’ Chance of Small Bank Failure, Official Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-20T04:39:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/china-faces-high-chance-of-small-bank-failure-official-says.html
One or two small Chinese banks may
fail next year as they face pressure from their reliance on
short-term borrowing, a Communist Party economic official said.  Small banks get about 80 percent of their funding from
interbank markets and deposits in savings vehicles known as
wealth management products,  Fang Xinghai , a bureau director at
the Central Leading Group for Financial and Economic Affairs,
said at a conference in Beijing today. They face risks from the
mismatch with their long-term loans to borrowers such as local-government financing vehicles, he said.  “Sometime next year, there may be one or two small lenders
reporting a bank run or bankruptcies,” said Fang, a former head
of  Shanghai ’s municipal Financial Services Office, whose current
organization reports to the Central Committee of China’s ruling
party. “That possibility is very high.”  His warning follows efforts by Premier Li Keqiang to stem a
$6.6 trillion credit binge from the past five years and give the
forces of supply and demand a bigger role in allocating
resources in the world’s second-largest economy. The seven-day
repurchase rate, a gauge of funding costs in the banking system,
marked a high for the month at  5.4 percent  on Nov. 18 after the
central bank drained money from the financial sector.  The Communist Party this month signaled a bigger focus on
fiscal concerns, setting the scene for a clampdown on the
finances of indebted local authorities. The scale of regional
debt woes is set to be shown in an audit that the Finance
Ministry said was due last month.  The  China  Banking Regulatory Commission supervised 3,747
institutions at the end of last year, including more than 3,350
lenders at the municipal or rural level, according to the
watchdog’s  annual report .  ‘Snowball’ Effect  In addition to the threat to lenders from the funding
mismatch, failures of investment trust companies may lead them
to sell assets, causing a “snowball” effect of falling prices
that could spread the risks of the shadow financing system to
the banks, Fang said.  Nonperforming loans at China’s lenders rose for a seventh
straight quarter through the end of June, extending the longest
streak in at least nine years, official data show. The increase
was the smallest since the first quarter of last year and the
ratio of bad loans to total credit was unchanged from three
months earlier, at 0.96 percent.  China cleaned up its banks over the past decade, setting up
asset-management companies in 1999 that initially took over 1.4
trillion  yuan  ($230 billion) of bad loans from the four biggest
lenders. Decades of government-directed lending to unprofitable
enterprises had pushed the financial system to the brink of
bankruptcy, with bad-loan ratios reaching as high as 40 percent.  The government may publish rules for a deposit-insurance
system before the end of this year, the Economic Information
Daily  reported  today, citing an unidentified person.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  