-- Cholesterol Drug From Trash Seen Preventing Heart Attack
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2013-11-21T05:49:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/cholesterol-drug-from-trash-seen-preventing-heart-attack-health.html
A way to boost good cholesterol and
avert repeat heart attacks, which has eluded two of the world’s
biggest drugmakers, may have been sitting in  CSL Ltd. (CSL) ’s trash.  The Australian company realized that instead of discarding
unused blood components left over from making hemophilia, burns
and immune-system treatments, it could extract the beneficial
cholesterol known as HDL and infuse it into patients. The idea
is that HDL therapy may quell inflamed arteries and dissolve the
life-threatening plaques that clog them, said Andrew Cuthbertson, CSL’s chief scientist.  The experimental treatment was the focus of three papers at
the  American Heart Association ’s scientific meeting in  Dallas 
yesterday. Mid-stage studies showed a “dramatic and rapid
increase” in key indicators of the process in which bad
cholesterol, or LDL, is flushed from patients’ arteries.  “If this works, we could save a lot of lives and it could
be very good for the company commercially,” Cuthbertson said in
an interview. “It’s a big priority for us.”  There’s no guarantee CSL will succeed where others have
failed. The treatment is Melbourne-based CSL’s first foray into
cholesterol-lowering drugs a global market  IMS Health  valued at
$33.6 billion last year. The product, if approved following
successful further studies, may garner annual sales of as much
as $500 million in its first five years, according to UBS AG.  “It’s a huge market,” said  Andrew Goodsall , a health-care
analyst with UBS in Sydney, who recommends investors buy CSL
shares. “For a lot of investors, this is a point of
excitement.”  CSL, the world’s second-largest maker of blood-based
therapies, gained 0.2 percent to A$67.67 on the Australian stock
exchange. The shares have climbed  26 percent  so far in 2013,
outpacing the 14 percent increase in the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200
Index (AS51) , which declined 0.4 percent today.  Deadly Clots  Rapidly repairing clogged and inflamed arteries could save
lives. About a quarter of patients die and half are re-hospitalized in the year after a heart attack, a U.S.  study
presented  in May found.  Traditional cholesterol-lowering medicines, or statins,
such as AstraZeneca Plc’s Crestor, don’t act fast enough to
protect patients in the first weeks after a heart attack, when
plaque in other locations risks dislodging and causing deadly
clots, said Philip Aylward, a cardiologist at the South
Australian Health and Medical Research Institute in Adelaide who
will lead further clinical studies of the CSL product in
 Australia . HDL-based therapy may offer more promise, according
to Aylward.  Faster Action  “We think that if you can neutralize that inflammatory and
active process then you may produce benefits fairly quickly,”
he said in an interview.  Yesterday’s presentations described results of a phase 2a
study that evaluated the effects of a single-dose of the CSL
compound, called CSL112, in 44 patients with stable  heart
disease  over 90 days. In addition to positive results for key
biological indicators, the trial data also showed the product
was safe and well tolerated, even when patients took other blood
thinners, the company said.  CSL aims to start a phase 2b study in the first half of
2014, according to Cuthbertson. That trial will compare weekly
doses of CSL112 with a placebo over four weeks in about 1,200
heart-attack patients in the U.S.,  Europe ,  Japan  and Australia.
Results of the research, which will cost about $60 million to
$70 million, may be ready by late 2015, he said.  Hit The Road  “Everything we have seen so far encourages us to take the
next step,” Cuthbertson said. “That’s where the rubber will
hit the road because we’re looking at real clinical endpoints
like death and second heart attack.”  Other medicines designed to raise levels of good
cholesterol, which ferries fatty lipids out of the arteries,
have failed at a more advanced stage.  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  halted research on a drug known as
dalcetrapib in the final stage of clinical tests in May 2012.
The product belonged to a class of heart medicines that inhibit
a molecule known as CETP, which results in higher levels of good
cholesterol. But it also turned out to boost  blood pressure  and
inflammation. Pfizer Inc. dropped its own experimental medicine
torcetrapib in December 2006, also in the last stage of human
tests, because it raised blood pressure and patients died during
the study.  Previous research has shown that synthetic HDL can reverse
plaque buildup in the arteries when it is infused, said John
Gordon Harold, president of the  American College of Cardiology .
The benefit disappears once the infusions stop, and researchers
haven’t been able to convert the therapy into an oral medication
that would be easier to use.  More Than Theory  “This is an early study suggesting there may be some
benefit, but you can’t say much more than that,” Harold, a
cardiologist at the  Cedars-Sinai Heart Institute  in  Los Angeles ,
said in an interview. “It needs further study.”  Research with other medications that affect HDL levels
hasn’t been encouraging, he said.  “Almost all the studies to date have been either neutral
or negative,” Harold said. “The HDL hypothesis has been put
into question.”  Stumbling Block  The stumbling block to date has been the absence of a drug
that can mimic the cholesterol-extracting effect of HDL in a way
that benefits heart patients, said Bronwyn Kingwall, head of the
metabolic and vascular physiology unit at  Melbourne ’s Baker IDI
Heart and Diabetes Institute.  “It’s a relationship we have known about for decades, but
we haven’t had the means to exploit it therapeutically,” she
said in an interview.  CSL112 is a novel formulation of apolipoprotein A-I, the
active component of HDL, purified from human plasma. It’s
reconstituted to form HDL particles suitable for intravenous
infusion.  CSL isn’t the only company still trying. Nor is it the most
advanced.  Merck & Co. (MRK)  and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  are developing
alternative compounds, with late-stage studies slated for
completion from 2015 to 2017, Kingwall and John Chapman of the
Pitie-Salpetriere University Hospital in Paris said in a  review
paper  published in the journal Circulation earlier this year.  Cerenis Therapeutics SA of  France  began a mid-stage study
of a recombinant drug designed to mimic HDL particles in March
2011. The results will be presented in early 2014, said Jean-Louis Dasseux, the company’s president and chief executive. The
drug has been shown to reduce plaque in as soon as one month in
HDL-deficient patients, Dasseux said. The search for a potential
partner is proceeding, he added.  Experienced Partner  A drug would have to show a reduction of about 15 percent
in subsequent heart attack or stroke to be considered clinically
meaningful, according to Kingwall and Chapman. It would also
have to be tested in a study of about 15,000 patients that would
cost $250 million to $300 million, they said.  UBS predicts 12,000 patients would need to be recruited for
any phase 3, which cost about $500 million. A licensing deal
with another drugmaker would reduce that risk as well as any
potential returns, Goodsall said in a note to clients today.  CSL has the option of developing CSL112 alone or with
another company with expertise in acute cardiovascular medicine,
Cuthbertson said. Any partnering discussions would probably be
held during the next two years, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  