-- Coal Seen as New Tobacco Sparking Investor Backlash: Commodities
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-11-20T17:23:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/coal-seen-as-new-tobacco-sparking-investor-backlash-commodities.html
About $8 trillion of known coal
reserves lie beneath the earth’s surface. The companies planning
to mine and burn them are being targeted by a growing group of
investors concerned with the greenhouse gases that will be made.  Storebrand ASA (STB) , which manages $74 billion of assets from
Norway, sold out of 24 coal and oil-sands companies since July
including  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , the largest U.S. coal producer,
citing a desire to cut fossil-fuel industry holdings. This month
Norway’s opposition  Labour Party  proposed banning the country’s
$800 billion sovereign wealth fund from coal investments.  “Maybe we’ve hit some kind of nerve in the debate,”
Christine Torklep Meisingset, Storebrand’s head of sustainable
investments in Oslo, said by telephone. “Hopefully, other
investors will be acting along the same lines. There could be an
interesting parallel to tobacco.”  The movement is an offshoot of a campaign by more than 70
investors to pressure all fossil-fuel industries on  climate
change . It harks to the 1990s anti-tobacco push and is gaining
help from unlikely partners. The International Energy Agency, a
28-nation group promoting  energy security , is lobbying
increasingly to limit the release of heat-trapping gases.  “Investors make decisions everyday on buying and selling
stock and we’re confident that the strong long-term outlook for
coal and Peabody’s specific investment appeal will carry the
day,” Vic Svec, a spokesman for Peabody Energy, said yesterday
by phone. “Coal has been the fastest-growing major fuel around
the world for the past decade and is expected to surpass oil as
the world’s largest energy source.”  No Retreat  Coal, whose burning spews about twice the  greenhouse gases 
as natural gas, is not in retreat. In 2011, coal was used to
generate 30.3 percent of the world’s primary energy, the highest
level since 1969, according to the World Coal Association, an
industry trade group. That share slipped only to 29.9 percent
last year.  Investors cite both ethical and financial concerns with
carbon-bearing fossil fuels. The Norwegian fund, the largest of
its kind in the world, owns shares in some of the biggest coal
producers including a $2 billion holding in  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
the biggest mining company and stakes in Glencore Xstrata Plc,
the largest coal exporter, and Anglo American Plc.  The call to divest coal holdings is a political issue that
the fund won’t comment on, said Thomas Sevang of Norges Bank
Investment Management, which manages Norway’s sovereign wealth
fund. “We’re investing according to the mandate that we have at
any given time.”  Rising Concern  Future curbs on  carbon emissions  beyond 2020 may cut
valuations on coal assets by as much as 44 percent, according to
HSBC Holdings Plc.  “There is the beginnings of divestment out of pure play
coal by some investors,” Nick Robins, head of HSBC’s climate
change center of excellence in London, said in a Nov. 12 phone
interview. “There’s been a very marked rise in concern about
this issue. There’s a recognition that as you move to a low-carbon economy that coal is potentially most vulnerable.”  Coal remains a “good story” with demand from China and
India estimated to grow almost 4 percent a year through to 2020,
Godfrey Gomwe, chief executive officer of  Anglo American (AAL) ’s
thermal coal unit, said in e-mailed comments.  “We believe that fossil fuels will continue to play a
significant role in the global energy mix,” Ivan Glasenberg,
CEO of Glencore Xstrata, wrote in the company’s sustainability
report last week.  Share Prices  Globally, share prices of thermal coal producers have slid
over the past two years on declining demand for the fuel and
fears of oversupply. U.S. producer Patriot Coal Corp. filed for
bankruptcy last year while  Arch Coal Inc. (ACI)  has dropped 71 percent
and Peabody 44 percent over the past two years. China Shenhua
Energy Co., the nation’s biggest producer, is down 27 percent
over the same period while Indonesia’s biggest exporter PT Bumi
Resources is off about 80 percent.  Prices for  thermal coal  shipped from Newcastle in Australia
have slumped about 8.9 percent so far this year and are heading
for a third straight annual decline.  “There’s a pretty plausible case that this is the
beginning of the end,” Craig Mackenzie, investment director and
head of sustainability at  Scottish Widows  Investment
Partnership, which manages 145 billion pounds ($233 billion) in
assets, said by phone. Scottish Widows divested from pure-play
coal producers last year on the prospect that demand for the
fuel will continue to wane amid a booming U.S. natural gas
market.  Warsaw Talks  Even so, Mackenzie said the divestment campaign has had
little to no effect to date, and the sell-off in coal stocks has
been driven by fundamentals.  “It’s quite easy to paint a scenario where coal demand
never recovers,” Mackenzie said. “ Gas prices  are the biggest
short-term driver. Over the longer term climate and clean air
polices are the structural drivers.”  Other investors are starting to echo Storebrand’s views as
ministers, executives and activists debate climate change for a
second week at United Nations talks in Warsaw amid concern the
current rate of carbon emissions growth will see temperature
gains exceed a UN target of 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees
Fahrenheit) by 2100.  Some mining companies “are increasingly aware that this is
going to be a show-stopper.” Storebrand’s Meisingset said.
“Regulations and access to capital will be more demanding for
the fossil fuel companies if politicians worldwide act on the 2-degree target.”  Biggest Elephant  Like  tobacco companies , coal producers may move to paying
high dividends to attract investors amid an uncertain longer
term future for the fuel, Meisingset said.  A group of 70 investors including California’s two largest
public pension funds and F&C Management, holding more than $3
trillion in combined assets, wrote to the world’s top 40 oil,
gas, coal and electric power companies in September urging them
to assess the risks climate change poses to their business.  International Energy Agency  Executive Director Maria van der Hoeven last week described coal as the “biggest elephant in
the room” in the debate about how to shift away from fossil
fuels to help manage climate risks. Coal-fired power stations
remain the cheapest form of energy for developing nations, she
said. The agency has said coal demand would need to fall by 3.5
percent a year in the 2020s to meet the 2-degree target.  That target allows investors to evaluate the long-term
impact to their holdings, according to HSBC.  Cleanest Possible  Total production rose 2.9 percent to an estimated record
7.8 billion tons last year. There’s about 1 trillion tons of
reserves left, equivalent to 132 years of global output at the
2012 rate, according to the coal association.  “It is important that the international community
recognize that much of the developing world is turning to coal
to fuel development,” Anglo’s Gomwe, also chairman of the
association’s energy and climate committee, said in a Nov. 18
speech at its  International Coal & Climate Summit  in Warsaw that
coincided with the UN talks. “We need to help them do that in
the cleanest way possible.”  The U.K. today joined a U.S. commitment to minimize funding
of foreign coal-fired power stations as they seek to curb use of
a fuel. Energy Secretary Edward Davey said in Warsaw the country
will seek wider support for the pledge from other nations and
development banks.  Swarthmore College  The beginnings of a fossil fuels divestment campaign are
rooted in the U.S. where in 2010 Swarthmore College called on
its endowment fund to sell all shares in producing companies,
according to a report last month from the University of Oxford
titled, “Stranded Assets and the Fossil Fuel Divestment
Campaign.”  The Oxford University report analyzed previous divestment
campaigns on tobacco stocks and companies that operated in
apartheid  South Africa  in the 1980s. Both movements gathered
momentum at the involvement of large universities such as
Harvard, John Hopkins and Columbia, it said.  Still, the report concluded that such a campaign would have
“negligible direct impact” on direct equity valuations on
fossil-fuel companies. Funds withdrew about $5 billion of
investments in tobacco stocks in a push that took hold in the
1990s, according to the report.  Rising Emissions  Greenhouse gas emissions from the  energy industry  are
forecast to rise 20 percent above 2011 levels by 2035, according
to a Nov. 12 report by the IEA. This means that global
temperatures could rise an average of 3.6 degrees Celsius above
pre-industrial levels by mid-century, far above the
internationally agreed-to target of 2 degrees.  UN scientists said in September that humans have now
emitted more than half the carbon permissible to remain within
the 2-degree limit. To meet that target, about two-thirds of
proven fossil-fuel reserves must remain in the ground, mostly
coal, according to the IEA.  “Coal must change rapidly and dramatically for everyone’s
sake,”  Christiana Figueres , executive secretary of the UN
Framework Convention on Climate Change, said in a Nov. 18 speech
to industry executives at the Warsaw  Coal & Climate Summit .
“The coal industry faces a business continuation risk that you
can no longer afford to ignore.”  Negotiators in Warsaw are hoping to develop a plan to reach
a global agreement at the 2015 summit in Paris. Countries at a
climate summit in Doha, Qatar, at the end of 2012 committed to
adopt a broad climate pact in 2015 to give nations time to
ratify the agreement so it can go into effect in 2020.  California Teachers  “There’s potential risk here that could be very material
to companies involved in coal production resulting from a
potential future in which coal demand declines more quickly than
companies are currently anticipating,” Vicki Bakhshi, Head of
Governance and Sustainable Investment at F&C Investments, which
has $152 billion of assets, said in a phone interview.  Glencore Xstrata (GLEN) , BHP, Anglo American and Rio Tinto Group
have the biggest exposure to coal assets on the London stock
exchange. Combined, they reported sales of coal for use in power
stations and steel mills of $17 billion in the first half of
this year.  The World Coal Association, which represents producers
including Glencore and BHP, says coal-fueled energy is essential
to lift people out of poverty and is calling on governments to
increase the efficiency of  power plants  and for development
banks to help fund clean-coal technologies.  “We see the world moving toward a low-carbon future in
which fossil fuel reserves that companies continue to develop
may actually become a liability, which could take a toll on
 shareholder value ,” Jack Ehnes, CEO of the Sacramento-based
California State Teachers’ Retirement System with $172 billion
in assets under management, wrote in an Oct. 24 statement.  The U.S.’s second-largest public pension fund is a member
of the group of 70 investors that wrote to energy companies. In
the letter they asked the fossil fuel producers to identify
measures available to them to manage the risk of climate change
on their business including selling their “most carbon
intensive assets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  