-- Coal’s Challenge to the EPA
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-11-20T21:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/coal-s-challenge-to-the-epa.html
The Environmental Protection
Agency’s  effort  to limit carbon emissions from coal plants is
facing a new congressional challenge this week. In choosing how
to respond, the agency should be willing to adjust its short-term tactics in service of its long-term goal -- even if it
seems nonsensical.  In this case, that may mean being less strict about
controlling pollution from new coal plants. It is an argument
that, admittedly, requires some explanation.  At issue is whether capturing and storing carbon -- which
new coal plants would have to do in order to comply with a rule
proposed by the EPA -- is a process that has been “adequately
demonstrated,” as required by the Clean Air Act. The EPA says
it has been, pointing to three U.S. plants in the works that use
the technology. Critics disagree.  Some of that criticism can be readily dismissed; the agency
was bound to face some attacks, regardless of how it structured
its rule. Senator  Joe Manchin  of West Virginia, for example, has
 proposed  legislation that would prevent the EPA from adopting
such standards unless they have been used in at least six
places. Why six? Is seven too many? Five not enough? Manchin’s
not saying.  Last week, the House Energy and Commerce Committee
 identified  what may be a more serious challenge to the EPA
proposal: A 2005 law prevents the agency from using plants
subsidized by the Department of Energy’s Clean Coal Power
Initiative to show that a given technology is “adequately
demonstrated.” Republicans on the committee say the three
plants cited by the EPA received funding from that program.  This argument could pose a problem for the EPA’s plans to
limit emissions from all coal plants, not just the new ones that
would be covered by the rule. A court decision to vacate the
regulation for new plants would force the agency to delay a
related rule, still being written, on existing coal plants.  That second rule is more important for fighting climate
change: Nobody is building new coal plants today anyway, because
natural gas is so cheap. The nation’s almost 600 existing coal
plants are the more pressing concern. Moreover, the approach the
EPA is considering for those existing plants is more flexible
and promising.  So the decision the EPA faces is whether to rewrite its
proposed rule on new coal plants to make it less vulnerable to a
legal challenge or to stick with its proposal.  If it were to set a looser emissions limit, equal to the
lower emissions  already being achieved  by the most advanced
coal-fired plants, it would quiet arguments that the relevant
technology hasn’t been “adequately demonstrated.” But it would
come at the price of higher emissions down the road, if the
price gap between natural gas and coal narrows and companies
start building coal plants again. Reworking the proposed rule
also risks some delay in regulations for both new and existing
plants.  It’s unclear whether the risk posed by the 2005 law merits
a revision of the EPA’s proposed rule. Predictably, there are
different opinions about the chances of a legal challenge.
That’s a determination the agency will need to make, and
carefully.  Whatever it decides, the EPA’s attention is best focused on
the overall goal of the greatest possible reduction in emissions
from all coal plants -- both new and existing.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 