-- Copper Rises as Bernanke Says Interest Rates to Remain Low
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-11-20T09:57:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/copper-rises-as-bernanke-says-interest-rates-to-remain-low.html
Copper advanced for the first time
in three days in London after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the benchmark interest rate will remain low long
after policy makers reduce bond purchases.  Bernanke said a “preponderance of data” would be needed
to start removing stimulus, after his nominated successor, Fed
Vice-Chairman  Janet Yellen , signaled last week that the  U.S.
economy  isn’t strong enough to warrant cuts to the bond-buying
program. The  Federal Open Market Committee  publishes minutes of
its October meeting today. Gains were limited after the dollar
rebounded against the euro, reducing the appeal of greenback-denominated commodities.  Copper was “supported by Bernanke’s comments indicating
that the Fed will maintain the easing monetary policy in the
U.S. for as long as needed,” Marex Spectron Group said in a
report today. “In focus will be the FOMC minutes.”  Copper for delivery in three months on the  London  Metal
Exchange rose 0.1 percent to $6,974 a metric ton by 9:36 a.m.
The metal, which touched $6,910 yesterday, the lowest level
since Aug. 7, declined 12 percent this year. Futures for
delivery in March gained 0.1 percent to $3.167 a pound on the
Comex in New York.  Copper stockpiles monitored by the LME fell 0.4 percent to
445,700 tons, the lowest since Feb. 27, exchange data showed
today. Copper canceled warrants, or metal earmarked for
delivery, rose 0.7 percent to 278,275 tons on bookings in
Antwerp, Belgium and the Dutch city of Vlissingen. About 62
percent of global inventories of the metal are awaiting
delivery.  On the LME, aluminum, lead and tin also climbed. Nickel and
zinc fell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  