-- U.S. 10-Year Yields Rise to Two-Month High on Fed Taper Outlook
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-11-20T22:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/corporate-bonds-advance-as-bernanke-sees-low-interest-rates.html
Treasury 10-year yields rose to the
highest level in two months as Federal Reserve officials said
they might reduce $85 billion in monthly bond purchases “in
coming months” as the economy improves, minutes of their last
meeting show.  The  difference  between the yields on three-year notes and
the 30-year bond widened to the most in more than two years as
the policy makers expect “ongoing improvement in labor market
conditions.” Fed Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard said
earlier a cutback in the central bank’s purchase program is “on
the table” for the December meeting, while 5 percent of
investors surveyed are looking next month for a Fed decision to
taper, according to the latest Bloomberg Global Poll.  “Their outlook is more robust than the general market’s,”
said William Larkin, a fixed-income portfolio manager who helps
oversee $500 million at Cabot Money Management Inc., in a
telephone interview from Salem,  Massachusetts . “It’s going to
cause the expectation that tapering may come sooner than
later.”  The benchmark  10-year yield  gained nine basis points, or
0.09 percentage point, to 2.80 percent at 4:59 p.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.75
percent note due in November 2023 dropped 25/32, or $7.81 per
$1,000 face amount, to 99 18/32. The yield reached the highest
level since Sept. 18.  Trading Pace  Treasury trading  volumes  at ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of U.S. government debt, rose 79 percent to $481
billion, the most since June 24. Volume fell to a 2013 low of
$147.8 billion on Aug. 9. The high was $662.3 billion on May 22.
     Volatility in Treasuries as measured by the Merrill Lynch
MOVE Index rose to 66.45 after reaching 58.31 on Nov. 18, the
lowest level since May. It touched a record low of 48.87 on May
9 and a 2013 high of 117.89 on July 5.  The  extra yield  on 30-year bonds compared with three-year
notes, known as the yield curve, expanded to 3.34 percentage
points, the widest since August 2011. The difference has
averaged 2.83 percentage points in the past 12 months. The
steeper curve suggests investors are demanding a higher premium
to hold longer maturities amid signs growth will pick up and
spur inflation.  “The fact that they didn’t overtly lower the unemployment
threshold” helped to steepen the yield curve, said David Ader,
U.S. government bond-strategy head at CRT Capital Group LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Jobless Threshold  The minutes show “a couple supported reducing the 6.5
percent unemployment rate threshold, while others said that
change may cause concern about how committed the Fed is to the
thresholds.”  Four of five investors expect the Fed to delay a decision
to begin reducing its bond buying until March 2014 or later,
with just 5 percent looking for a move next month, according to
the latest Bloomberg Global Poll.  Those forecasting a cutback in March or later in the poll
are split evenly between those who expect a move that month and
those who see it afterward. Only one in 20 said the central bank
will begin to reduce its purchases at its Dec. 17-18 meeting,
according to the poll yesterday of investors, traders and
analysts who are Bloomberg subscribers.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said yesterday in a speech
that interest rates will probably stay low until long after
policy makers end debt purchases. Five Senate Republicans have
said they’re inclined to support Janet Yellen to be chairman,
which should give her the 60 votes she needs to be confirmed to
succeed Bernanke.  Swaps Data  The U.S. 10-year interest-rate swap spread shrank to the
narrowest in 10 months as investors sought to receive a fixed-interest rate on contracts backed by a bank over the relative
safety of Treasuries. The spread touched 3.5 basis points, the
least since January.  Treasuries have lost investors 2.3 percent this year, based
on the Bloomberg World Bond Indexes.  Treasury yields dropped earlier after Bloomberg News
reported the European Central Bank may reduce the rate for banks
to park excess cash if more stimulus is needed to boost the
region’s economy. ECB policy makers would reduce the rate for
banks to park excess cash at the ECB to minus 0.1 percent from
zero, said two people with knowledge of the debate.  “People tend to draw parallels when it comes to global
monetary policy,” said Jacob Oubina, senior economist at Royal
Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit in New York. That
“took yields lower. They are drawing an extension for what the
ECB is saying, to the U.S.”  TIPS Sale  The Treasury is scheduled to sell $13 billion of 10-year
Treasury inflation protected securities tomorrow. The U.S.
previously sold the debt on Sept. 19 at a yield of 0.5 percent,
the highest since July 2011. TIPs pay interest at lower rates
than regular Treasuries on a principal amount that’s adjusted
based on the Labor Department’s consumer price index.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-maturity TIPS, a gauge of expectations for consumer prices over
the life of the debt, was at 2.17 percentage points, compared
with the average of 2.31 percentage points during the past 12
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  