-- Coulson Told by Editor Payments to Investigator ‘Had to Stop’
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-11-20T11:48:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/coulson-told-by-editor-payments-to-investigator-had-to-stop-.html
A journalist at News Corp.’s News of
the World told Andy Coulson, the tabloid’s editor, to halt
payments of 2,000 pounds ($3,200) a week to an investigator who
was employed to intercept voice-mail messages for stories.  Ian Edmondson, the 44-year-old former news editor of the
U.K. tabloid, told Coulson and Managing Editor Stuart Kuttner in
a 2005 e-mail that the payments to  Glenn Mulcaire  “had to
stop,” Sallie Bennett-Jenkins, Edmondson’s lawyer, told a
London court today.  Coulson, 45, Kuttner and Edmondson are among eight people
on trial in London related to wrongdoing at News Corp. tabloids.
News Corp. Chairman Rupert Murdoch closed the News of the World
in 2011 in an attempt to contain a scandal over revelations that
the tabloid had hacked the phone of a missing teenager.  “The 2,000 pounds a week payments to Greg’s investigations
man has to stop,” Edmondson said in the e-mail referring to
Greg Miskiw, a News of the World colleague who has pleaded
guilty to conspiring to hack phones. “I have spoken about this
a million times and I do not think I need to say any more.”  Mulcaire has also pleaded guilty to conspiring to hack
phones, including that of Milly Dowler, causing the scandal that
led to the closure of the News of the World.  Walter Mitty  The private investigator used to call into the News of the
World news desk and called himself Mr. Lemon or Mr. Strawberry,
Bennett-Jenkins said. Journalists at the tabloid would joke
about this “Walter Mitty character,” she said.  Rebekah Brooks, another former News of the World editor who
later became head of  News Corp. (NWS) ’s U.K. unit, is also on trial in
the case. Prosecutors allege journalists at the Sunday tabloid
and the daily Sun newspaper hacked phones and paid bribes to
public officials for stories.  Brooks, 45, is also charged with conspiring to destroy
evidence in July 2011 when the furor over phone hacking was at
its apex. Brooks’s husband, her former assistant Cheryl Carter,
and the U.K. unit’s former head of security, Mark Hanna, also
face charges of conspiring to pervert the course of justice.  Another journalist, Clive Goodman, is charged with
conspiring to commit misconduct in a public office while he was
the royal reporter at the News of the World.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in  London  at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  