-- Crossroads Casino in Massachusetts Rejected by Milford
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-11-20T19:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/crossroads-casino-in-massachusetts-rejected-by-milford.html
Voters in the Massachusetts town of
Milford rejected Crossroads Massachusetts LLC’s plans for a $1
billion casino by an almost 2-to-1 margin, narrowing the field
of candidates vying to build a gambling resort near  Boston .  The vote in Milford, about 40 miles southwest of Boston,
was 6,361 against and 3,480 in favor, according to a  document 
posted yesterday at the town clerk’s website.  Wynn (WYNN)  Resorts Ltd.
and the Suffolk Downs horse-racing track continue to pursue
proposals elsewhere in the area.  The election was held days after state gaming officials
ruled that Crossroads was conditionally suitable to be granted a
license. The group, which includes the owners of the Foxwoods
Resort Casino in  Connecticut , also said last week it had
completed financing arrangements through a deal with Gaming &
Leisure Properties Inc., a real-estate investment trust.  Wealthier communities in Massachusetts have rejected
casinos, while cities with higher unemployment have approved
them, according to Father  Richard McGowan , a professor of
finance at  Boston College , and the author of books on gambling,
tobacco and alcohol.  Massachusetts legalized casino gambling two years ago with
plans calling for three resorts in three distinct parts of the
state. Crossroads was competing against Wynn and Suffolk Downs
in the Boston area.  Suffolk Downs said this month it will move ahead with plans
to develop a casino on its land in Revere after voters in East
Boston rejected its proposal. Closely held Foxwoods is owned by
the Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  