-- Czech Economy Facing Renewed Recession Risk, Policy Maker Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-11-20T13:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/czech-economy-facing-renewed-recession-risk-policy-maker-says.html
The Czech economy is facing the risk
of a recession that without currency interventions could eclipse
the record-long slump it exited this year, central bank Deputy
Governor  Vladimir Tomsik  said.  The Ceska Narodni Banka began the first koruna sales in 11
years on Nov. 7 to keep the currency “near” 27 per euro.
Tomsik reiterated the strategy today, a day after another board
member, Lubomir Lizal, sent the koruna weaker by saying he can
imagine a scenario that would force policy makers to change the
intervention rate to 28 per euro.  The central bank is trying to boost household spending to
ward off a deflation threat and increase export competitiveness
to aid the $196 billion  economy ’s recovery. After three
 interest-rate  cuts to what the bank calls a “technical zero”
of 0.05 percent last year, the Czechs are emulating monetary
authorities from U.S. Federal Reserve Bank to the  Bank of Japan 
in using non-traditional stimulus.  “There was one quarter of revival, and the flash estimate
for the third quarter shows we may return to recession,” Tomsik
said today at a conference of exporters in Prague. “We had six
quarters of recession, and I fear it could have been much worse
in the coming years if we hadn’t acted.”  The koruna has weakened 5.5 percent against the euro since
the interventions began, the worst decline among 31 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It traded 0.3 percent stronger
at 27.293 at 11:51 a.m. in Prague.  Preliminary data showed the economy unexpectedly  shrank  0.5
percent from the previous three months in the third quarter
after growing 0.6 percent in the April-June period.  The currency interventions, whose main goal is to return
consumer-price growth toward the central bank’s 2 percent
target, will help save about 60 billion koruna ($3 billion) of
economic output, Tomsik said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  