-- D.C. Scene: Spielberg on Lincoln; Ken Burns, Leahy, Barr
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-11-20T06:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/d-c-scene-spielberg-on-lincoln-ken-burns-leahy-barr.html
After working on his film
“Lincoln” at the  National Archives ,  Steven Spielberg  returned
as honoree.  “We were here researching what we needed in terms of props
and in terms of all sorts of artifacts,” he said last night at
the  National Archives Foundation  gala.  Spielberg said the archives were useful to both Doris Kearns Goodwin, who wrote the book on which the 2012 film is
based, and Tony Kushner, the movie’s screenwriter.  The finished product, starring Daniel Day-Lewis, pleased
Senator  Patrick Leahy , Vermont Democrat.  “I’ve seen it two times, and I’m going to see it again,”
Leahy said.  Representative Andy Barr, the Kentucky Republican and
member of the House Financial Services Committee, said he
preferred Spielberg’s 1998 movie “Saving Private Ryan.”  National Archivist David Ferriero’s favorite Spielberg:
“E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial.”  “It moves me every time,” Ferriero said.  Representative Aaron Schock, Illinois Republican, and
documentary filmmaker Ken Burns were also guests at the gala.
Cocktail sandwiches were served on trays that were decorated
with the posters from “E.T” and “Jaws.” A string quartet
played the theme song from the “Indiana Jones” series.  Paul Pelosi, the investor husband of House Minority Leader
 Nancy Pelosi , caught up with Jim Blanchard, a partner at DLA
Piper LLP, while others peeked at Napoleon’s signature, the
 Declaration of Independence  and the Constitution during a mini-tour of the archive.  The collection also has a draft by Lincoln of his
Gettysburg Address, which he delivered 150 years ago yesterday,
an anniversary that was marked at the battlefield park in
Gettysburg,  Pennsylvania .  “History is the most exciting thing we’ve got,” Spielberg
said. “We live in two directions. We live in the future, but we
live not enough in the past. You’ve got to know where you came
from. It’s a wonderful place for students and their parents to
camp out. I will.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at 
 sgreen57@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  