-- Danske Commodities Expands Energy Trading as Utilities Cut Staff
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2013-11-20T14:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/danske-commodities-expands-energy-trading-as-utilities-cut-staff.html
Danske Commodities A/S, a closely-held Danish energy trader, is taking advantage of growing
electricity-price volatility by expanding its operations, even
as banks and utilities are reducing staff to cut costs.  The Aarhus, Denmark-based company has hired nine power
traders and one carbon trader this year from Barclays Plc, Axpo
Holding AG,  EON (EOAN)  SE, Enel SpA and NEF Asset Management, Torben Nordal Clausen, Danske Commodities’ chief executive officer,
said by telephone on Nov. 19.  “The key driver for our growth is still renewables, which
are making the market more volatile,” Nordal Clausen said. “We
help power plant operators optimize their assets and to do this
we need good traders and lots of people in data and IT.”  Renewable power flooding the grid on sunny and windy days
has increased price swings in Europe’s short-term markets. This
trend is set to continue as the region’s largest energy market,
 Germany , plans to source at least 35 percent of its power from
solar and wind by 2020, compared with 23 percent now.  German  day-ahead prices  ranged this year between a high of
59.74 euros on Jan 22. and a low of minus 3.33 euros a megawatt-hour on June 15, on the Epex Spot SE exchange. Solar and  wind 
generation rose as high as 32.5 gigawatts on June 15, compared
with average output of 5.6 gigawatts over the past year, data
from European Energy Exchange AG show.  Power price  volatility  rose to its highest since at least
2007 in June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Utility Cutbacks  The decline in  forward power  prices because of the growth
in renewables output has reduced the earnings of German
utilities. RWE AG, the country’s second-largest utility, said in
an earnings report on Nov. 14 that profit will drop by almost
half next year as power prices fail to recover. EON, Germany’s
biggest utility, said that 2013 profit will be at the lower end
of its forecast range following a 52 percent slump in nine-month
earnings.  EON cut staff at its global commodities unit, the
proprietary trading, optimization and infrastructure businesses,
by 33 percent this year to 1,468 as of Sept. 30, the company
said in its third quarter earnings report published on Nov. 13.
 RWE (RWE)  plans to cut 10 percent of its workforce, or 6,750 jobs, by
2016, the company said on Nov. 14.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is said to be closing its energy-trading business in Geneva, cutting or relocating about 12 jobs,
a person with direct knowledge of the matter said on Nov. 15.
This follows Deutsche Bank AG, based in Frankfurt and Bank of
America Corp. in shutting some units trading commodities because
of tighter regulation in Europe and the U.S. after the financial
crisis.  Changing Industry  “The whole industry is changing and needs to be adaptable.
We can add a lot of flexibility in a totally new environment,”
Danske Commodities’ Nordal Clausen said.  Danske Commodities advises some power plant operators when
to run in order to maximize profits, Nordal Clausen said. It
also sells power on behalf of renewable energy producers and
advises on feed-in tariffs and output management, according to
the company website.  The company has increased headcount by 73 percent since
January to 400 people, from 231 at the end of last year, company
spokesman Simon Taylor said by e-mail on Nov. 19. Most recently,
Danske Commodities hired in October Igor Ignjic from Axpo
Trading U.K. as head of U.K. power and gas.  It boosted profit 77 percent in 2012, according to an
earnings report published on April 19. Danske Commodities
increased its power trading outside exchanges 178 percent last
year as the share of renewable power in  Europe  rose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  