-- Deal on Harbor and Flood Control Bill Likely, Boxer Says
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-11-20T19:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/deal-on-harbor-and-flood-control-bill-likely-boxer-says.html
Senate Environment and Public Works
Chairman  Barbara Boxer  said she is “very optimistic” lawmakers
will agree on a bill to authorize as much as $12.5 billion for
dredging U.S. harbors and waterways, flood control and
environmental restoration.  Lawmakers began negotiations today to merge House and
Senate water resource bills passed earlier this year with rare
bipartisan agreement. H.R. 3080, passed 417-3, would provide
$8.2 billion while S. 601, passed 83-14, contains $12.5 billion,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  “Keeping our infrastructure up to date is one of the basic
functions we have in Congress,” said Boxer, a California
Democrat.  Shipping companies including  Maersk Inc. (MAERSKB) , manufacturers
including  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  Deere & Co. (DE) ,  and industry groups
for grain, apparel, iron and steel signed a U.S. Chamber of
Commerce letter supporting the bill.  Large commercial projects that would be authorized under
the legislation include dredging the Sabine-Neches Waterway, a
major oil and natural gas refining area on the Texas-Louisiana
border, and deepening Savannah Harbor in  Georgia .  It would be the first water infrastructure measure enacted
since 2007, and it has been endorsed by small-government Tea
Party Republicans as well as Democrats as way to boost exports
by lowering shipping costs.  Panama Canal  Ports and waterway operators have called for increased
spending to prepare for new supertankers that will transit the
Panama Canal after its $5.2 billion expansion, scheduled to be
completed by 2015.  “America’s ports, like Port Everglades, need to be ready
for the widening of the Panama Canal,” said Representative Lois Frankel, a Florida Democrat. “If they are not ready, the ships
will pass them by.”  The conference committee convened a day after Vice
President  Joe Biden  and mayors from U.S. port cities toured the
Panama Canal with Panama President Ricardo Martinelli.  “When exports can carry two to three times more in each
container ship, that saves business,” Biden said. “That saves
fuel. And it makes manufacturers and farmers in America more
competitive.”  Environmental Review  The House and Senate measures are largely similar and would
streamline environmental review processes in ways opposed by
environmental groups. The bills differ on how they would
authorize dredging, environmental restoration and flood control
projects, as well as how to address projects that won’t have a
completed U.S. Army Corps of Engineers report until after a
water bill is enacted.  One possible area of dispute is a Senate provision that
would create a National Endowment for the Oceans to address
 climate change  as it affects the oceans, including acidification
and increases in temperature and sea level.  House Natural Resources Chairman Doc Hastings, a Washington
state Republican, said Congress “should not be creating a new
off-budget fund that will restrict ocean and inland
activities.”  House Transportation  and Infrastructure Chairman Bill Shuster, a Pennsylvania Republican, said he was confident “we
can resolve our differences and achieve a successful conference
report.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  