-- Deutsche Bank Targeted as Dubai’s DFSA Fines Rogue Bankers
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-11-21T13:17:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/deutsche-bank-to-rogue-financiers-targeted-by-dubai-enforcement.html
Dubai, which teetered on the brink
of default in 2009, is cracking down on misconduct at its
financial center to safeguard its position as a business hub.  The Dubai Financial Services Authority, which regulates the
Dubai International Financial Centre, is taking  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
to court for not providing information relating to a probe into
its wealth management unit, according to a Nov. 17  statement . A
day later the regulator, known as the DFSA, said it fined Dubai-based Middle East Auditing Office 55,000 dirhams ($15,000) for
auditing a DIFC company’s accounts without being registered.  The investigations follow a string of fines by the
regulator against professionals earlier this year at the DIFC.
Those ranged from a  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  private banker who executed
$8.4 million worth of transactions without his client’s consent
to the chief executive officer of a Lebanese bank’s Dubai unit
who overstated by about 26 times the net worth of a client.  “Dubai has long had a reputation as a business hub where
regulators looked the other way,” Jim Krane, a research fellow
at  Rice University  in Houston and author of the book ’Dubai: The
Story of the World’s Fastest City,’ wrote in e-mailed comments.
“Now that Dubai’s economy has bounced back, it wants to send a
signal to those who would revert to the bad old ways. The
backroom deals and side payments that held sway in the 2000s are
no longer permissible.”  Financial Crisis  Dubai was rife with cases of fraud and corruption during
the global financial crisis, when property prices crashed about
60 percent and indebted expatriates abandoned cars and property
rather than face imprisonment for failing to honor debts.  Omar bin Sulaiman, former governor of the DIFC, spent two
months in prison before returning $14 million in bonuses, while
Hashim Al Dabal, the ex-chairman of state-owned Dubai Properties
LLC, paid $35 million to secure his freedom after spending eight
months in detention in an embezzlement case.  Several government-owned companies in Dubai also had to
restructure loans as credit markets froze. Dubai World Corp.,
one of the three main state-controlled holding companies,
reached a deal with about 80 banks to delay payments on $25
billion of debt. Dubai Group LLC, an  investment company  owned by
the emirate’s ruler, in May agreed on final terms for
restructuring $6 billion of bank debt.  The DFSA last month banned Jaime Corona, a former financial
adviser of an unnamed DIFC-based company, for six years for
providing two Dubai-based clients with falsified portfolio
account statements which said the value of their holdings were
significantly greater than their actual value.  Lebanese Bank  In September, it fined Tareck Fouad Farah, chief executive
officer of the Dubai unit of Lebanon’s FFA Private Bank, $7,500
for claiming a client was worth $5 million, when his actual
wealth was about $190,000. Nikhil Das, a private banker with BNP
Paribas was also fined that month for executing two transactions
worth $8.4 million for a client without his consent. A third
case involved a $50,000 fine against Dubai-based United
Investment Bank for failing to provide appropriate safeguards
for its financial products.  “The DFSA is taking an increasing interest in the conduct
of financial advisers to improve the quality of advice provided
to consumers,” chief executive officer  Ian Johnston  said in an
Oct. 7 statement. People who “act unethically cannot avoid the
DFSA’s scrutiny by leaving the jurisdiction or failing to
communicate with the regulator,” he said.  DFSA CEO  Johnston took over as CEO of DFSA in June 2012 after
working at the  Australian Securities and Investments Commission 
and Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission.  Farah is now chairman of asset management firm MENA Invest
Sal in  Beirut . In an e-mailed response to questions he said his
case “didn’t deserve any publication when it was a small issue
with no working ban.” Contact information for Corona and Das
wasn’t immediately available, while a spokeswoman for BNP
Paribas in Bahrain declined to comment.  A city of 2.1 million people, Dubai became a regional
banking hub after opening the DIFC in 2004 to attract
international banks, asset managers and insurers with promises
of zero taxes for 50 years.  The United Arab Emirates’ economy is forecast by the
government to expand 4.5 percent this year, the most since 2006,
while Dubai home values surged at the fastest pace in the world
in the second quarter after falling 64 percent during the
crisis, broker Knight Frank LLP said.  The legal case against Deutsche Bank is the first that the
DFSA has filed with Dubai courts since 2009 and only the fourth
since 2007.  ‘Classic Path’  “The recent cases brought to light are part of a classic
path for markets transitioning toward a more sophisticated
stage, with the regulator enforcing best standard practices,”
said Philippe Dauba-Pantanacce, senior Middle East economist at
Standard Chartered Plc in  London . “Tightening the regulatory
environment is wholly part of a successful transition.”  The DFSA is examining whether Deutsche Bank’s private
wealth management business breached rules related to due
diligence, assessing money-laundering risks and client agreement
requirements, according to court filings dated Oct. 31 and made
public on Nov. 17. Michael Lermer, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank
in Dubai, declined to comment. In the case documents, Deutsche
Bank refused to disclose the information because it said it
would contravene Swiss law.  Deutsche Bank shares fell 0.1 percent to 33.76 euros at
2:05 p.m. in Frankfurt trading.  The U.A.E. central bank is also imposing borrowing curbs
and tightening rules on mortgage approvals and plans to set up a
credit bureau to control lending and ensure that the emirate
registers sustained growth.  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) , the New York-based index provider whose stock
gauges are tracked by investors with about $7 trillion in
assets, said in June it will raise the U.A.E. to emerging market
status from frontier rankings in May 2014. The upgrade will
bring in an estimated $170 million from exchange-traded funds to
the U.A.E., Bank of America Merrill Lynch said Sept. 23.  “Now that the U.A.E. exchanges have achieved emerging
market status, they are playing to a different crowd,” said
Krane. “The fund managers are people who read the fine print.
They aren’t amused by financial shenanigans. To keep them happy,
Dubai has to tighten its game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  