-- Dollar Gains Versus Yen to Won After Fed as Gold Climbs
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-11-21T00:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/dollar-holds-jump-on-fed-as-australian-index-futures-fall.html
The dollar strengthened against most
Asian currencies, while stocks in Australia and South Korea
dropped after the Federal Reserve indicated economic stimulus
may be cut in coming months. Japanese shares jumped as gold and
silver rebounded while crude oil declined.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index climbed a second day,
rising 0.2 percent by 9:54 a.m. in Tokyo as the greenback
strengthened at least 0.3 percent versus the yen, Malaysian
ringgit and Korean won. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.1
percent, while  Japan ’s Topix Index climbed 0.9 percent.  Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index (SPA)  futures were little changed. Gold rose from a
four-month low and silver halted a three-day drop as West Texas
Intermediate oil fell 0.2 percent to $93.66 a barrel.  The Fed expected economic data to signal ongoing
improvement in the job market and “thus warrant trimming the
pace of purchases in coming months,” minutes of U.S. policy
makers’ October meeting showed. Fed Bank of St. Louis President
James Bullard also stoked speculation over tapering, saying a
reduction in bond buying is possible in December. A private
index today may show Chinese manufacturing growth slowed last
month, while the Bank of Japan reviews monetary policy.  “The market is still feeling very twitchy about it, and
there’s a feeling around that the Fed is starting to see the
cost of ongoing quantitative easing mounting,” Shane Oliver,
the Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which oversees $135 billion under management,
said by phone. “The environment in  China  has become more
friendly towards risk and more friendly toward the share market.
But it’s not completely out of the woods yet and there’s still
uncertainty around.”  RBA Governor  The HSBC Holdings Plc/ Markit Economics purchasing
managers’ index on Chinese manufacturing will probably come in
at 50.8 for November from 50.9 in October, according to the
median of 18 economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Readings above 50 signal expansion. Reserve Bank of Australia
Governor Glenn Stevens is scheduled to speak today in Sydney.  The  Bloomberg dollar index , which tracks the greenback
against 10 major peers, snapped a three-day decline yesterday,
rising 0.4 percent. The yen lost 0.4 percent to 100.44 per
dollar today, while the won slumped 0.3 percent to 1,060.91 per
dollar in a second day of declines. The ringgit slid 0.5 percent
to 3.1865 a dollar and the Thai baht weakened 0.4 percent.  The euro was little changed at $1.3421 after sliding 0.7
percent versus the dollar yesterday, the biggest one-day decline
this month.  ECB Rates  The European Central Bank is weighing a negative deposit
rate to ward off inflation, according to people with knowledge
of the debate who asked not to be identified as the talks aren’t
public. ECB policy makers would reduce the rate for commercial
lenders who park excess cash at the bank to minus 0.1 percent
from zero, said the people.  ECB President Mario Draghi speaks in Berlin today and PMIs
on manufacturing and services in the euro region are due to be
released.  Ten-year Treasury yields were little changed at 2.81
percent, after rising nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage
point, yesterday to the highest close since Sept. 17.  Fed Bank of St. Louis chief Bullard said that a reduction
in the Fed’s $85 billion-a-month in asset purchases is “on the
table” for the Federal Open Market Committee’s December
meeting. Bullard, a voter on policy this year who has backed the
Fed’s record stimulus, said that a strong jobs report could
increase the chance of a reduction in bond purchases next month.  Data Dependent  “It’s definitely on the table, but it’s going to depend on
the data,” Bullard said in a Bloomberg Television interview
with  Erik Schatzker . “A strong jobs report, I think, would
increase the probability some for a December taper.” The
government’s jobs report for November will be released Dec. 6.  As of Nov. 19, four of five investors expected the Fed to
delay a decision on the first cuts to bond buying until March
2014 or later, with 5 percent looking for a move next month,
according to the latest Bloomberg Global Poll. Only one in 20
said the central bank will begin to reduce its purchases at its
Dec. 17-18 meeting, according to the poll yesterday of
investors, traders and analysts who are Bloomberg subscribers.  Janet Yellen, nominee to replace Ben S. Bernanke as Fed
Chairman, told her Senate confirmation hearing last week that
she’ll ensure stimulus isn’t removed too soon.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 0.4 percent in a fourth
day of declines, the longest slump since August, while the Kospi
Index in  Seoul  dropped 0.7 percent, falling a second day. The
Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded Chinese
stocks in New York retreated 0.9 percent.  Silver climbed 0.4 percent to $19.9445 an ounce after
falling to the lowest close since Aug. 7 yesterday, while
palladium and platinum added 0.2 percent. Gold gained 0.3
percent to $1,248.37 an ounce following yesterday’s 2.5 percent
slide.  Natural gas  futures  declined 0.2 percent after surging 3.3
percent to lead commodity gains yesterday. Gasoline gained 0.4
percent in a second consecutive rising day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma O’Brien in Wellington at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  