-- Dudley Says Faster Growth Needed for Sustained Employment Gains
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-11-20T17:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/dudley-says-faster-growth-needed-for-sustained-employment-gains.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said faster economic growth is
needed to generate the lasting job gains that would prompt him
to support a reduction in stimulus.  “The missing ingredient” is that “we haven’t actually
seen an acceleration in the growth rate that will actually
sustain the improvement in the labor market,” Dudley, 60, said
today to reporters during a press briefing in New York.  Dudley predicted U.S. economic growth will pick up next
year and in 2015, saying he’s “more hopeful” the expansion is
strengthening as the drag from fiscal policy wanes. Policy
makers have said they will press on with bond purchases, now $85
billion a month, until the outlook for the labor market has
“improved substantially.”  The New York Fed chief, who is also vice chairman of the
policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  and has supported
record stimulus, predicted a 2.5 percent to 3 percent expansion
next year, with growth “a little bit stronger” in 2015.  “There’s a lot of uncertainty around that forecast,”
Dudley said. “What we actually do will be defined by how the
economy actually evolves.”  Inflation will “gradually drift” up toward the Fed’s 2
percent goal, while not reaching that level next year, Dudley
predicted. He said he doesn’t think inflation “will be a
problem for several years at a minimum.”  The FOMC is debating how to reduce bond purchases without
triggering a sharp increase in bond yields. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the Fed will probably hold down its
target interest rate long after ending so-called quantitative
easing, and possibly after unemployment falls below 6.5 percent.  Near Zero  “The target for the federal funds rate is likely to remain
near zero for a considerable time after the asset purchases end,
perhaps well after” the jobless rate breaches the Fed’s 6.5
percent threshold, Bernanke said in a speech to economists in
 Washington . A “preponderance of data” will be needed to begin
removing accommodation, he said.  Dudley said it’s “important that people get our message
broadly right,” and that “the challenge of communication” is
a “little more difficult than usual” because policy maker are
relying on new tools after cutting the benchmark  interest rate 
almost to zero in December 2008.  Unemployment was 7.3 percent in October. The economy grew
last quarter at a 2.8 percent rate. Fed officials forecast a 2
percent to 2.3 percent expansion for 2013, compared with a 1.7
percent estimate released yesterday by the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net  