-- East European Prosperity Hinges on Revamp, Development Bank Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-11-20T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/east-european-prosperity-hinges-on-revamp-development-bank-says.html
Eastern European nations must renew
efforts to overhaul their economies to avoid “forever
trailing” western living standards, according to the European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development.  “Economic growth remains well below pre-crisis levels and
many countries have turned their backs on the reforms that could
put economic expansion back on track,”  Erik Berglof , chief
economist at the London-based EBRD, said in the  development
bank ’s annual Transition Report, which was published today.  Of the 34 countries from Morocco to Mongolia where it
invests, only incomes in the central European and Baltic nations
will in the next 20 years reach or exceed 60 percent of the
average of the 15 nations that made up the European Union before
eastward expansion began in 2004, the EBRD said.  Eastern  Europe  was the worst affected of all  emerging
markets  by the global financial turmoil that began after Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s demise because of banking and trade
links with the continent’s crisis-stricken west. Most
governments responded by stalling on or reversing steps to
modernize their economies after communist rule.  While progress in transition has been closely correlated
with democratization, economic overhauls have slowed, the EBRD
said. Without changes to policies and institutions, the
productivity growth that permits catch-up to western  living
standards  will remain at an average 2 percent to 4 percent in
the next 10 years before falling, it said.  It’s imperative to “invigorate reforms and improve
economic institutions,” the EBRD said.  Russia ’s deepening  economic slowdown  is impeding eastern
Europe’s recovery as lower  oil prices  hurt the world’s largest
energy exporter, the EBRD said Nov. 11. Russia, the largest
economy where the EBRD invests, will grow 1.3 percent in 2013
and 2.5 percent in 2014, the bank said, cutting May estimates by
0.5 percentage point for each year.  The 30 eastern European and central Asian economies where
the EBRD works will expand 2 percent this year and 2.8 percent
in 2014, the bank projected, down from May forecasts of 2.1
percent and 3.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  