-- ECB Nominates Nouy for Supervisor Job After EU Spat Over Gender
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-11-20T21:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/ecb-nominates-nouy-for-supervisor-job-after-eu-spat-over-gender.html
The  European Central Bank  said
 France ’s Daniele Nouy is its pick to lead the region’s new bank
supervisor, after a year-long spat over gender diversity
highlighted the lack of women in top central-bank jobs.  “The Governing Council of the ECB has today nominated Ms
Daniele Nouy for chair of the supervisory board of the new
Single Supervisory Mechanism,” the ECB said today in an e-mailed statement in  Frankfurt . Nouy will appear before the
Economic and Monetary Affairs committee of the European Union’s
parliament on Nov. 27 to testify on the role, the ECB said.  Nouy, 63, emerged as the lead candidate after a career that
encompassed almost four decades at the Bank of France as well as
a stint as president of the Committee of European Banking
Supervisors -- a predecessor of today’s European Banking
Authority. Her nomination helps answer critics, led by the
chairwoman of the committee of the parliament,  Sharon Bowles ,
that there aren’t enough women in power at the ECB.  “Applications of female candidates are particularly
welcome” for other upcoming jobs at the Single Supervisory
Mechanism, ECB President  Mario Draghi  wrote on Nov. 15 to Bowles
in  response  to formal questions. “This is in line with the
ECB’s gender diversity policy aiming at increasing the share of
female colleagues in high-level positions.”  Six Men  Last year, Bowles held up the process of appointing
Luxembourg’s Yves Mersch to the ECB’s Executive Board on the
basis that he isn’t a woman. The central bank is aiming to start
supervision of euro-area banks next year, and is setting up a
separate body under the Governing Council to administer the
task. A deputy chairman of the Supervisory Board is due to be
selected from among the existing six-man ECB board.  Nouy and Dutch bank regulator Executive Director Jan Sijbrand were the ECB’s only candidates,  Sueddeutsche Zeitung 
reported on Nov. 8.  Bowles, in an interview last month, signalled the
parliament’s likely approval of the ECB’s selection.  “It’s almost a certainty that if a very good woman is put
forward, all else being equal, the parliament will choose her,”
she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  