-- Hedge-Fund Consultant Pleads Guilty to Child Pornography
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-11-20T22:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/hedge-fund-consultant-pleads-guilty-to-child-pornography.html
Ezra Zask, president and founder of
hedge-fund consultant firm SFC Associates LLC, pleaded guilty to
child pornography charges in exchange for probation and
registration as a sex offender.  Zask, 63, pleaded guilty before  New York  State Supreme
Court Justice Larry Stephen to one count of possessing a sexual
performance by a child, a class E felony that carries a maximum
penalty of four years in prison, in exchange for 10 years of
probation and being listed on the state’s sex-offender registry,
according to a court clerk.  Zask is scheduled to be formally sentenced on March 5.
 Manhattan  District Attorney Cyrus Vance’s office and Jean-Baptiste Carelus, a senior principal with SFC Associates,
declined to comment.  “These events occurred at a very, very difficult time in
his personal life,” Zask’s attorney, Allen Futerfas, said in a
telephone interview. “He’s had a lot of tragedy in his life and
this came at a very difficult time. We’re glad he can put this
behind him and move forward.”  Zask, a graduate of  Princeton University  and  Columbia
University , started SFC Associates, a Manhattan-based firm
formerly known as Ezra Zask Advisors that helps hedge funds with
“complex consulting and litigation matters,” according to its
website.  He was arrested after police served a search warrant at his
home on East 39th Street in Manhattan on the morning of July 31,
2012, and found “numerous images and videos” containing child
pornography, according to the  New York City Police Department .  The case is New York v. Zask, 04773/2013, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  