-- Medjool Dates From Israel Wastewater Proving Favorite of Foodies
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2013-11-20T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/medjool-dates-from-israel-wastewater-proving-favorite-of-foodies.html
Benjamin Elkasslasy’s high-tech
tending of the Medjool date palms on  Israel ’s Kibbutz Gilgal
produced harvests he could only dream of when he started
managing this plantation in 1989.  The recycling of wastewater has been instrumental to the
flourishing of Israeli date crops, allowing Israel to claim 60
percent of the global Medjool market today from just a toehold
in the 1980s.  That formula may be hitting its limits. This precious
source of water is now just enough to water the current crop and
further expansion will have to wait for a desalination system to
kick in.  “It’s all about water,” Elkasslasy says, pointing out a
missed bunch of dates to pickers standing on a raised platform
hugging a tall palm.  To ensure no drop is wasted, plantations use sensors that
monitor root-absorption, and research and development centers
experiment with different grades of water and dwarfing trees.
Farmers rising at dawn often call the centers for the daily
formula to punch into irrigation computers to guarantee water
efficiency, they said.  Finding additional water sources for the Gilgal dates may
be complicated by the fact that the kibbutz lies in the  West
Bank . Palestinians seek the territory, which Israel captured in
1967, for a hoped-for state, so future sovereignty of the area
remains uncertain.  ‘Unknown’ Variety  The Medjool, whose name means “unknown” in Arabic, came
to Israel from  California , where Americans were tending palms
gifted by the king of  Morocco  in a bid to save his country’s
date heritage after a blight in the 1950s. The Medjool was the
only variety that didn’t have a name.  While the Medjool makes up less than 1 percent of the 7.9
million ton global date market --  Egypt  and  Iran  are top
producers of dates overall -- it’s the chief variety among the
32,000 tons of dates grown in Israel and the Israeli-occupied
West Bank each year.  Part of its success owes to a re-branding of the fruit by
marketers including  Hadiklaim , the Israeli date growers’
cooperative, as an exotic delicacy displayed in supermarkets
such as Fairway, Marks & Spencer and Coop Swiss. Foodies around
the world have added the Medjool to their shopping lists.  “If there was one date variety that the average person
would ask for by name it would be the Medjool,” said Mitch
Berliner, who runs two farmers markets near Washington, D.C.  Surging Production  Last year, Israeli farmers produced 21,570 tons of
Medjools, up 17-fold from 1990, according to Hadiklaim. Among
the 14,500 tons of dates Israel exported last year, about 10,000
were Medjools, agriculture officials say. Overall, the volume of
Israel’s date exports jumped 23 percent last year to 247 million
shekels ($70 million), reaching 27 countries across five
continents, they say.  With Israel’s annual rainfall averaging only 1.2 billion
cubic meters -- about half the nation’s water consumption,
according to the government’s water and sewage authority --
better ways to irrigate crops have always been a priority.  Innovation, starting with the Netafim Irrigation Co.’s
development of a drip irrigation system 50 years ago, has
contributed to Israel’s success with the Medjool, says  Larry
Duane Geohring , an agricultural researcher at  Cornell
University .  “Israel is a leader in water technologies, recycling and
conservation,” said Geohring.  Wastewater Conservation  The  United Nations  has identified Israel as a leader in
wastewater recycling. Mekorot, Israel’s national water company,
says Israel recycles 75 percent of its wastewater, followed by
 Spain  at 12 percent.  At Kibbutz Gilgal, Elkasslasy spends months checking
evaporation rates, monitoring data from sensors planted among
tree roots and punching numbers into a computer that calculates
each palm’s water requirement, then delivers that amount almost
to the drop.  For Canadian-born Roy Annau, who has cared for the date
orchards at Kibbutz Ein Gedi for more than five decades, the
technology can be mind-boggling.  “It’s for the young ones,” the 69-year-old farmer said,
reminiscing about the days when he’d turn on a tap in the
orchard and return hours later to turn it off. “I’m just a
dinosaur.”  Treated Sewage  With potable water so scarce in Israel, the idea of using
treated sewage water started to take hold 30 years ago, though
it took time to build acceptance for the idea, said Abraham
Tenne, who oversees desalination programs at Israel’s  Water
Authority .  Since 2000, the Israeli government has spent 2 billion
shekels on wastewater treatment infrastructure, with
agricultural and other groups contributing an additional 1
billion shekels, according to the  Finance Ministry .  Now, further investment is necessary to supplement existing
water sources with desalination systems.  “Today we are nearly using all the water and almost can’t
plant any more trees,” said Chaim Oren, a consultant to date
and fig growers with the  Ministry  of Agriculture and  Rural
Development .  Palestinians living in the Israeli-controlled section of
the Jordan Valley also started planting dates about five years
ago, with about 3,000 acres of Medjool trees under cultivation
today, Oren said. They use fresh water allotted under existing
peace accords and drill wells into the underground aquifer, he
said.  Palestinian Competition  Zuhair Manasra, general manager of Nakheel  Palestine  for
Agricultural Investment, cultivates 740 acres of date trees and
plans to add more next year. He, too, says the main obstacle to
growth is water.  “We need water reinforcements and need to connect the
Jordan Valley to the national water grid so it can benefit from
desalination,” Oren said, adding that Palestinians would also
be able to use the source.  The plan may be stymied by the lack of a peace agreement.
While date plantations inside Israel proper, including the
southern Arava desert, will be able to benefit from the
desalination program through the national grid, in the yet-to-be-connected Jordan Valley, that may not be the case.  Gilgal business manager Doron Eliahou doesn’t regret the
millions of dollars the kibbutz invested in its dates as it
finally begins to see a return on its money.  “Now, at least, I can say it’s been worthwhile,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  