-- Eiopa Says Next Two Years Is `Crucial' for Solvency II
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2013-11-20T12:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/eiopa-says-next-two-years-is-crucial-for-solvency-ii.html
The next two years will be “crucial
for the success” of new rules designed to make  insurance
companies  safer,  Europe ’s insurance and pension regulator said.  “Eiopa will publicly consult on the technical standards
and guidelines as soon as possible during 2014, in order to
deliver them in time for a good and timely implementation by the
market,” Gabriel Bernardino, chairman of the European Insurance
and Occupational Pensions Authority, said in a speech in
Frankfurt today. “The next two years should be used to actively
implement measures to avoid the worst case scenarios.”  European politicians reached an agreement last week paving
the way for new rules to make  insurance companies  safer after 13
years of wrangling with the industry and regulators.
Representatives for the European Commission, European Parliament
and Council of the European Union agreed on rules on how to
assess capital insurers need to set aside to meet future
obligations.  The deal in Brussels allows for the Solvency II regulations
to become operational on Jan. 1, 2016, with a transitional
period of 16 years to adjust existing business, after approval
by the EU Council and the European Parliament. Frankfurt-based
Eiopa is developing the rules with local regulators.  “Unfortunately, the completion now and the future
introduction of Solvency II they all fall in a time of
considerable stress,” German Deputy Finance Minister Thomas Steffen said in  Frankfurt  today. “For extremely long-term
business, especially in my country, the transition has turned
out to be crucial.”  Rules Delayed  Solvency II, intended to harmonize the way insurers
allocate capital against risk, was scheduled to come into force
last year. Its introduction was delayed several times over
issues such as calculating capital needed for liabilities for
products with long-term guarantees including annuities.  “Solvency II will include appropriate transitional
mechanisms to deal with the solvency issues of the low interest
rate environment,” Bernardino said. “Nevertheless, we cannot
wait for 2016 to deal seriously with this issue.”  Insurers are Europe’s biggest institutional investors with
8.4 trillion euros ($11.4 trillion) under management. They are
lagging behind banks in adopting a framework to help them
withstand losses in any repeat of the 2008 financial crisis.  “The worst scenario is to have a low-yield environment for
the next five years,” said Denis Kessler, chief executive
officer of Paris-based reinsurer  Scor SE. (SCR)  That could “lead to a
terrible turmoil on the life insurance market” with
consequences such as the need for capital raising, consolidation
and “insolvencies of smaller insurers,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich  at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  