-- Tele2 to Weigh Sale of Dutch Fixed-Line Assets
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-11-21T08:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/tele2-to-weigh-sale-of-dutch-fixed-line-assets.html
Tele2 AB (TEL2B) , the wireless carrier
building a fourth-generation network in the Netherlands, may
consider selling older fixed-line assets in the country after
customer declines accelerated.  The company could sell the consumer part of its fixed-line
business in the country, or upgrade the infrastructure to offer
faster  Internet access  or so-called fiber-to-the-home services,
Chief Executive Officer Mats Granryd said yesterday in an
interview at an investor conference in Barcelona.  “We are weighing our options,” Granryd said.  “What we
have seen in the third quarter is an acceleration of the fixed
line being less attractive.”  Tele2, based in Stockholm, ultimately sees itself becoming
primarily a wireless company, Granryd said. It is building a
faster, fourth-generation mobile network in the Netherlands
where Granryd says prices are unusually high and mobile-data use
low. Still, the company may face competition from the likes of
 John Malone ’s  Liberty Global Plc (LBTYA)  and  Carlos Slim . Both
billionaires have attempted to take control of assets in the
country, where  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  is the biggest carrier.  “Liberty I think is gearing up tremendously,” Granryd
said. “The battle right now is in the fixed domain, not the
mobile domain.”  Shares of Tele2 declined 0.2 percent to 80 kronor at 9:36
a.m. in Stockholm.  Owner’s Prerogative  Tele2 had sales of 1.38 billion kronor ($208 million) in
the Netherlands last quarter, or  18 percent  of its  total .
Sweden, its biggest market, accounted for 41 percent.  Phone-industry executives, as well as analysts including
Bjorn Gustafsson of Kepler Cheuvreux, have predicted takeovers
in the Nordic region’s saturated telecommunications market where
sales are dropping as prices shrink. Granryd said he isn’t aware
of Sweden’s Stenbeck family, which controls Tele2 through
 Investment AB Kinnevik (KINVB) , being interested in selling.  “They might change their mind but that’s their
prerogative,” he said.  The company also operates in Norway, the Baltic region,
Kazakhstan and Croatia, for a total of  13.2 million  mobile-phone
subscribers.  “We’re not religiously holding on to any of our properties
except maybe Sweden,” Granryd said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in Barcelona via 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  