-- Telecom Plus Surges to Record in London on RWE Npower Agreement
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-11-20T13:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/telecom-plus-surges-to-record-in-london-on-rwe-npower-agreement.html
Telecom Plus Plc (TEP)  surged to a record
in London trading after agreeing to buy two energy companies
from  RWE AG (RWE) ’s Npower unit for 218 million pounds ($352 million).  Telecom Plus rose as much as 17 percent after announcing
the agreement on the Electricity Plus Supply Ltd. and Gas Plus
Supply Ltd. units. The deal includes a 20-year energy-supply
accord with RWE Npower Plc that will boost Telecom Plus energy
margins and make its tariffs more competitive, it said.  Telecom Plus was up 16 percent at 1,747 pence by 1:14 p.m.
in London, giving it a market value of 1.2 billion pounds.  The acquisition comes at a time of political debate in
Britain over how to combat rising energy bills. Regulator Ofgem
and the government have come under fire from lawmakers and
consumer groups for not doing enough to boost competition in a
market dominated by six energy suppliers with more than 90
percent of U.K. customers. Five of those have announced
inflation-topping tariff increases in the past two months.  “Today’s announcement shows that Britain is well on the
way to having a Big 7 rather than a Big 6,” said Paul Massara,
chief executive officer of RWE Npower. “In one move we have
helped to create the biggest independent competitor in Britain’s
household energy supply market.” Telecom Plus now has more than
770,000 customer accounts, he said.  The company, which operates the Utility Warehouse brand,
will fund the deal through share placings and about 100 million
pounds of debt from new facilities with  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  The
company plans to raise 130 million pounds in stock sales at
1,475 pence a piece underwritten by Peel Hunt LLP, it said.  The deal will increase margins that Telecom Plus earns from
supplying energy to customers by 4.25 percent, it said.  The acquisition, subject to shareholder approvals, is
expected to be completed by late December.  Telecom Plus had sold the energy companies to Npower in
March 2006. With proposals by Ofgem that limit tariffs on offer
to domestic customers to four, Npower and Telecom Plus would
have been restricted. This prompted the sale accord, according
to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  