-- Emerging ETF Declines After Fed Minutes as Hungary Slumps
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-11-20T21:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/emerging-etf-declines-after-fed-minutes-as-hungary-slumps.html
The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets
Index exchange-traded fund extended losses after Federal Reserve
officials said they might trim stimulus in coming months.
Hungary’s shares slid as the nation fined 11 banks.  The developing-nation ETF retreated 1.4 percent to $41.79,
while the MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 0.5 percent to
1,019.57. The BUX Index led declines among major Eastern
European stocks gauges as OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest
lender, tumbled.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. drove losses in technology
companies. Yields on Poland’s government bonds climbed after
Prime Minister Donald Tusk announced changes in his cabinet.  Stocks joined a global slump after minutes from the Fed’s
last meeting showed policy makers might reduce their $85 billion
in bond purchases “in coming months” as the world’s largest
economy improves. The  benchmark gauge  for shares in developing
nations has slid as much as 16 percent since May 22, when the
U.S. central bank signaled its asset-buying program could be
trimmed if the economy showed sustained improvement.  “Investors are seeing an end to this easy monetary
policy,” Ian Hague, founding partner of New York-based Firebird
Management LLC, which manages $1.3 billion of assets including
Russian stocks, said in a telephone interview from New York
today. “Until certainty returns,  emerging markets  are going to
underperform.”  Technology shares in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell
1.3 percent as a  group . The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options
prices on the fund and expectations of price swings, advanced
3.3 percent to 24.12.  Hungary, Poland  Hungary’s BUX index slumped as OTP dropped 1.3 percent. The
nation fined 11 banks for what it said amounted to illegal
collusion two years ago against a government program that
imposed costs on lenders by allowing the repayment of foreign-currency loans at below-market rates. Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  fell
for the first time in five days, while Turkish stocks rose.  The yield on 10-year securities climbed five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.43 percent at 5:29 p.m. in
Warsaw, the highest since Oct. 11. Mateusz Szczurek, chief
economist for Central and Eastern Europe at ING Groep NV in
Warsaw, will replace Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski , Tusk said
at a press conference today, adding the nominee’s views on
“macroeconomic strategy” are “identical” with his and
Rostowski’s.  South Africa  South Africa’s rand advanced the most among 31 major
currencies as the inflation rate in the continent’s biggest
economy slowed to the lowest since June.  Philippine stocks  led declines in  Asia  as  Megaworld Corp. (MEG) 
tumbled 6.1 percent, pacing losses in property developers. South
Korea’s Kospi index snapped a four-day rally as Samsung slumped.
India’s S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  posted the biggest drop since Nov. 5 as
 ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  dragged a gauge of lenders to the biggest slide
in two weeks.  China’s  benchmark  stock index rose to a one-month high
after the central bank elaborated on plans to loosen controls on
financial markets. Chinese equities in  Hong Kong  rallied for a
fifth day to erase losses for the year.  Haitong Securities (600837)  Co.
and China Construction Bank Corp. led gains for brokerages and
lenders in Shanghai. Air China Ltd. and China Southern Airlines
Co. surged after the Shanghai Securities News reported the
government may issue airspace-management rules.  Brazil’s stock market is closed for a holiday. The  Ibovespa (IBOV) 
dropped the most in seven weeks yesterday on speculation Latin
America’s largest economy will remain stalled, making equity
rallies hard to sustain.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage
point, to 322 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in London at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  