-- England Rides Cricket Success With $600 Million Commercial Boost
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-11-20T15:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/england-rides-cricket-success-with-600-million-commercial-boost.html
English cricket is turning onfield
success into record commercial revenue as the national team
seeks a run of victories not seen since the Victorian era.  Over the next four years, the  England  and Wales Cricket
Board will earn about $600 million from broadcast and
sponsorship deals, a figure the ECB says will rise if the team
can add to its three successive Ashes victories over  Australia .
The latest encounter starts in Brisbane today.  “A fourth on the bounce would be good news for cricket
because success breeds interest, not just from customers but
also from potential commercial partners,” John Perera, the
board’s commercial director, told Bloomberg News on Nov. 15
during an interview at Lord’s cricket ground in London.  England hasn’t claimed four straight Ashes victories since
winning the opening eight series after the contest was founded
in 1882. That sequence ended in 1890, when Queen Victoria was
nearing the last decade of her 63-year reign over the British
Empire.  The ECB’s 23-strong list of sponsors, including  Adidas AG (ADS) 
and  Investec Plc (INVP) , has enabled non-broadcast commercial revenue
to grow 50 percent over the past five years. The increase in
commercial activity coincides with an onfield turnaround that
has seen England victorious in four of the last five series
against Australia. It lost the previous eight.  “We’re now reaping the benefits of the vision 16 years
ago, when the ECB was formed,” David Collier, chief executive
officer of the board, said in a separate interview at Lord’s.
“All aspects of the game, from playground to the Test arena,
come under one national governing body. When a company comes to
us, whether it’s a corporate social responsibility project or an
image-related project, we can deliver all of that range.”  ‘Team’s Self-Belief’  England’s performances have played a major part in
attracting sponsors. Following the team’s rise to No. 1 in the
Test rankings in 2011, the ECB signed a 10-year deal with
Investec worth a reported 50 million pounds ($81 million) for
naming rights to all England’s home matches in the elite five-day format.  “It’s the team’s self-belief which makes them so
attractive to a sponsor,” Raymond van Niekerk, Investec’s chief
marketing officer, said in an interview from Cape Town. “When
they take the field, they know they’re going to win. That
confidence makes it a good association.”  Ashes aside, there are bigger financial gains to be made
from competing against  India , where television audiences can be
as high as 400 million for important matches.  “If you look at any business, or any sport, you look at
where the largest market is,” Collier said. “When you’ve got a
country of that size and stature, a population of over a billion
that is absolutely in love with the game of cricket, no other
sport touches the reach that cricket has in that country.”  ‘Range of Sponsors’  England is now ranked third in the International Cricket
Council Test rankings, just behind India, with South Africa top.  The ECB’s sponsorship lineup, featuring companies such as
Adidas AG,  Nestle SA (NESN) , Investec, Jaguar Land Rover Ltd. and Veuve
Clicquot Ponsardin SCS, is now so broad as to resemble that of a
major soccer club.  “It used to be just the main sponsor and the clothing
sponsor and a couple of others,” Nigel Currie, of sports and
entertainment marketing agency brandRapport, told Bloomberg.
“There’s a whole range of sponsors and brands associated with
the England team and the whole ECB setup. From bottled water to
cars to formal clothing to shirts and all sorts of things.”  Tim Crow was marketing manager of the Test and County
Cricket Board, the ECB’s forerunner, in the late 1980s. Now CEO
of London-based sponsorship agency Synergy, he said he’s
impressed by the ECB’s recent commercial achievements,
especially its ability to win such a long-term commitment from
Investec.  ‘Very Good Deal’  “The procurement departments of a lot of companies
wouldn’t allow them to make a 10-year investment. Right now it
probably looks like a very good deal for the ECB but in 10
years’ time it will look like a very good deal for Investec.”  Investec’s Van Niekerk says the asset manager carried out a
“thorough evaluation” of the entire England setup before
putting pen to paper.  “It’s a risky investment,” Van Niekerk said. “What if
viewership suddenly dropped or if the team started playing
really poorly. We have to consider all those aspects.”  While Investec sponsors the five-day format, the ECB has a
separate agreement for Twenty20 matches with National
Westminster Bank, owned by state-owned lender  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc . Fifty-over games are sponsored by Royal
London Asset Management Ltd. while yet another financial brand,
Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Ltd., known as LV=, sponsors
the county championship, the elite domestic competition.  TV Contracts  England also has Brit Insurance Holdings BV as its shirt
sponsor, to be replaced next year by privately held grocer
Waitrose Ltd. It has Adidas as its official kit supplier,
Nestle’s Buxton as water supplier and Jaguar as vehicle partner,
as well as other licensing partners and suppliers.  Broadcast revenue is the ECB’s biggest income source. At
$125 million a year, television deals contribute more than 80
percent of income. The bulk comes from  British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc’s (BSY)  Sky Sports. In 2012 Sky won TV rights to all home
international and domestic matches. The deal also covers women’s
cricket, an increasingly successful part of the game following
this year’s Ashes win for the England women’s team.  “We have seen the health of the sport thrive -- reflected
by results on the pitch,” said Bryan Henderson, executive
producer for cricket at Sky Sports. “With a double Ashes
victory this summer for both England teams, there is a lot to be
positive about for cricket.”  Earnings Rise  The ECB also has a long-standing radio deal with the
British Broadcasting Corp., a highlights agreement with
terrestrial U.K. broadcaster Channel 5 Broadcasting Ltd., and
last year signed a seven-year deal with ESPN Star Sports in
Asia.  England’s players are also benefiting. Last month the  Daily
Mirror reported  that top players like Kevin Pietersen saw their
earnings rise 30 percent to almost $1.6 million. India captain
MS Dhoni is cricket’s highest earner with $31.5 million,
according to  Forbes  magazine.  U.S.-based insurer  MetLife Inc. (MET)  has sponsored England
batsman Jonathan Trott for the past four years as a way of
promoting its asset-management business. It only entered the
U.K. market in 2008 and has seen its wealth-management business
there quadruple to more than 4 billion pounds.  Former England cricket captain Andrew Strauss retired in
2012, but still has his own endorsement deal with MetLife.  “Players want to make money out of the game,” Strauss
said in an interview in London last month. “It’s their career,
it’s their job, but in order to do that they need to do a lot of
commercial appearances.  ‘‘People like to have this romantic notion that sport’s
just there for enjoyment and that money shouldn’t come into
it,” he added. “They are businesses and they’re competing
against other sports that are businesses. If you aren’t willing
to be commercial about it, your sport will be affected.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried in  London  at 
 bprie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  