-- Ericsson Says Vodafone Network Spending Plan Boon to Market
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-11-21T08:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/ericsson-cfo-says-vodafone-network-spending-plan-boon-to-market.html
Ericsson AB (ERICB) , the world’s biggest
supplier of wireless-networks equipment, said  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD) ’s plan to boost investments in infrastructure is a boon to
the industry.  “If we are able to win the right footprint when companies
like Vodafone modernize their network, that is good for us,”
Ericsson Chief Financial Officer Jan Frykhammar said at a
conference yesterday in Barcelona. “If they upgrade and
continue with the same vendor, that should also be good.”  Ericsson is battling  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  China ’s Huawei
Technologies Co. for contracts as carriers expand and upgrade
their networks to support rising mobile video, music and data
traffic. While revenue in the third quarter declined in North
America and  Japan  as large coverage projects peaked, the
European market is starting to shrug off effects of the
financial crisis and carriers are spending more.  Ericsson, a supplier to Vodafone, is encouraged to see the
carrier’s plan to invest more than 19 billion pounds ($31
billion) on its networks by 2016, Frykhammar said. The
Stockholm-based equipment and services supplier is “heavily
engaged” with Vodafone, he said.  In  Europe , business is picking up with investments in
faster networks, Ericsson Chief Executive Officer  Hans Vestberg 
said last month. Several European markets are growing and
margins are also improving, he said. Network-modernization
deals, which are more labor-intensive and often less profitable,
are ending and business is shifting toward more lucrative
capacity projects, the CEO said at the time.  Phenomenal Dynamics  Ericsson  fell  0.8 percent to 81.80 kronor at 9:42 a.m. in
 Stockholm . It had added 27 percent this year through yesterday.  “If in Europe we could get to half of the dynamics that we
experienced in the U.S., it would be phenomenal, but we’re not
there yet,” Frykhammar said at the annual Technology, Media and
Telecoms conference organized by Morgan Stanley.  Ericsson has 36 percent of the world’s wireless-infrastructure market, ahead of Huawei’s 22 percent, Barclays
Plc has estimated.  Alcatel-Lucent SA, which has a strong position in the U.S.,
got 35 percent of its revenue last year from U.S. phone
companies  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , AT&T Inc. and Sprint
Corp. The company is restructuring after almost seven years of
failed management changes and turnaround plans.  Michel Combes ,
who took over as the unprofitable company’s CEO in April, wants
to cut 10,000 jobs, has narrowed research spending on fewer
technologies and is moving to sell 1 billion euros of assets by
2015.  U.S. Expansion  Alcatel’s possible asset sales could give competitors a
shot at boosting their market share.  “We have not looked at Alcatel-Lucent assets,” Frykhammar
said in an interview. “Our strategy is based on organic
development. Of course when assets come to the market we have an
obligation to our shareholders to look at them. As far as I
know, Alcatel-Lucent assets are not for sale.”  Frykhammar said the U.S. is still an important market as
carriers there will need to continue to invest in network
improvements. Selling more software, which generally has higher
profit margins, will be an important way to lift the company’s
long-term profitability, he said.  U.S. carriers’ spending on building and servicing faster
networks surpasses that of operators in regions such as Europe,
Rajeev Suri, the head of Nokia’s networks business, said last
week.  North America  was the only region where Nokia Solutions
and Networks increased sales last quarter as it avoided less
profitable deals elsewhere.  Long Time  “It takes a long time to win in the U.S. -- now we have T-Mobile, we have U.S. Cellular and now Sprint, so we are
definitely making progress,” Suri said. “A year ago we
couldn’t anticipate that we would have gotten this break with
Sprint.”  As part of Sprint’s plan to spend $8 billion this year and
next on capital expenses like network upgrades, the company
selected Alcatel-Lucent, Samsung Electronics Co. and NSN to
supply and manage the build-out.  “The U.S. market for us has a lot of opportunities if you
think 12 to 16 months out,” Frykhammar said, citing small
cells, the next wave of fourth-generation networks and next-generation television.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Barcelona at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  