-- Letta Foils Attempt to Oust Minister as Ally Criticism Increases
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-11-20T15:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/letta-foils-attempt-to-oust-minister-as-ally-criticism-increases.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
protected his justice minister, Anna Maria Cancellieri, from a
motion of no confidence in parliament by securing the support of
his own political party.  The motion against Cancellieri was defeated 405-154 in the
Chamber of Deputies in  Rome  today after lawmakers in Letta’s
Democratic Party said they dropped opposition to the minister at
the premier’s request. Letta brought his party into line late
yesterday after some of its top members, including Florence
Mayor Matteo Renzi, called for Cancellieri to step down.  “This is yet another sign of how weak the government is,”
Federico Santi, a London-based analyst with Eurasia Group, said
in a phone interview. Renzi “is starting to put some distance
between himself and Letta, starting to criticize him, trying to
undermine him indirectly.” Santi said snap elections are most
likely in the first half next year.  Letta’s three-party coalition is fraying as  Italy ’s
recession enters a third year and Renzi, 38, builds consensus
within the  Democratic Party , or PD. Letta, who was brought to
power in April in a parliamentary compromise, has said his goal
is to keep the alliance intact until at least 2015.  Italian 10-year bond yields rose 4 basis points to 4.1
percent at 3:16 p.m. in Rome.  Letta told PD lawmakers yesterday that the vote on
Cancellieri amounted to a confidence vote on his government,
party member Paolo Gentiloni told Ansa news wire. Giuseppe
Civati, a PD lawmaker, said in a speech to the chamber before
the vote that he would support Cancellieri although he was
“uncomfortable” with the party line.  Prison Release  Letta, 47, found himself at odds with Renzi this month
after defending Cancellieri against accusations she aided the
release from prison of a financier and family friend, Giulia
Ligresti, on health concerns. Cancellieri denied inappropriate
behavior, saying she asked officials to check on Ligresti’s
health, while never requesting the discharge.  “It’s the republic of friends of friends,” Renzi said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday about Cancellieri. “This
behavior is unbearable.”  Cancellieri, 70, a technocrat who served as interior
minister in  Mario Monti ’s government from 2011 through April of
this year, isn’t a member of Letta’s party.  Renzi is the frontrunner to become general secretary of the
PD in a Dec. 8 party election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  