-- EU Lawmaker Liese to Seek Changes to Draft Aviation Carbon Law
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   A l e s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-11-20T16:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/eu-lawmaker-liese-to-seek-changes-to-draft-aviation-carbon-law.html
European Union lawmaker Peter Liese
plans to propose changes to a draft law on emissions from
airlines to shorten the period in which curbs on international
carriers are limited to the bloc’s airspace.  Liese, a German member of the European Parliament who
oversees the aviation measure in the assembly, said in an
interview he wants to present his amendments on Nov. 27 in
Brussels. The draft law that he wants to be changed was proposed
by the European Commission last month and would narrow the scope
of greenhouse-gas curbs on flights to and from the region’s
airports from next year through 2020.  The aim was to keep pressure on nations worldwide to agree
on a deal to cut aviation emissions. The EU also wanted to scale
down the risk of a trade war after the original design of the
bloc’s carbon market, which covered emissions the entire length
of all flights to and from European airports, triggered
opposition from the U.S. to Russia and  India .  “I will support the commission’s approach in general but I
don’t think we need to wait that long and give other countries
time until 2020 to move,” Liese said in an interview in Warsaw
yesterday. “The  International Civil Aviation Organization 
pledged to aim for a deal in 2016. Either we have an agreement
and then our law will change accordingly or we don’t and we
return to full emission curbs.”  Stop the Clock  ICAO, which is the United Nations aviation agency, agreed
on Oct. 4 in  Montreal  on a roadmap to a decision on a global
carbon measure at its next triennial assembly. It also declined
to validate the EU carbon market, calling instead on member
states to engage in consultations when designing new or
implementing existing emission-reduction programs.  The outcome of the ICAO meeting was weaker than expected by
the EU, which was seeking approval of carbon programs run in
regional airspace, such as its 53 billion-euro ($71.7 billion)
Emissions Trading System. To facilitate talks in the UN agency,
 Europe  suspended carbon curbs on foreign flights from 2012, the
year of the expansion of the cap-and-trade program into
aviation. That is known as the stop-the-clock initiative.  Under the latest proposal by the commission, which followed
the ICAO assembly, stop-the-clock provisions will be extended
until the end of 2013 before the carbon program is limited to
European airspace. It will still be less stringent than
originally designed after countries including Russia and India
flagged the risk of a trade war. Airbus SAS said in June that 27
orders from  China  for Airbus A330 wide-body jetliners are still
in limbo after the government there froze the contracts as part
of a campaign against the EU plans.  Under Pressure  “Now the commission is under pressure from two sides: low-cost airlines want the original legislation to be restored and
Airbus argues for prolonging stop-the-clock,” Liese said. “The
commission proposal is balanced in between.”  The draft legislation is in line with international law,
according to Liese. “It may be against the letter of the ICAO
resolution of October but this resolution is not binding and
many countries, including the EU members, made reservation on
the respective part,” he said.  Europe, which wants to lead the global fight against
 climate change , included airlines in its carbon market last year
after aviation emissions in the region doubled over two decades.
Companies in the system are subject to a decreasing cap on their
emissions and have to submit allowances by the end of April each
year to cover discharges for the previous year.  There will be an extraordinary two-year compliance cycle
for airlines from 2013 through 2014, according to the commission
proposal. Allowances for emissions in those two years need to be
surrendered by April 30, 2015. Carriers in the ETS are given
free emission permits making up 85 percent of the industry cap
and have to buy the remaining 15 percent at auctions.  The proposed legislation also reflects special exemptions
for flights to and from developing states, as agreed by ICAO.
Routes to and from those states whose share of international
civil aviation is less than 1 percent should not be subject to
carbon-market measures until a global program is implemented,
ICAO decided earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Warsaw at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  