-- EU Orders France to Recoup 440 Million Euros From SNCM Ferries
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-11-20T18:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/eu-orders-france-to-recoup-440-million-euros-from-sncm-ferries.html
Societe Nationale Maritime Corse
Mediterranee , a money-losing French ferry operator partly owned
by  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , must repay an extra 220 million
euros ($296 million) in illegal subsidies, regulators said.  France must recoup the money -- a mix of capital increase,
social payments and a “negative price” paid when it was
privatized in 2006 -- because the aid harmed competition, the
European Commission said. This adds to the regulators’ order in
May that SNCM should repay grants since July 2007 to operate
ferry routes between Corsica and Marseille during peak periods.  The sum brings total aid SNCM must repay to 440 million
euros, Antoine Colombani, a commission spokesman, said by e-mail.  “The government contests the European Commission decisions
on the SNCM,” French ministers including Finance Minister
Pierre Moscovici said in a joint statement today. “The
government doesn’t share its point of view and has initiated
several procedural challenges.”  The dispute is holding up Veolia’s accord with French
state-owned bank Caisse des Depots et Consignations to withdraw
from their transport unit Transdev, which owns the ferry
operator. Europe’s largest water company is seeking to extricate
itself from the public transit business as part of Chief
Executive Officer Antoine Frerot’s turnaround plan to lower debt
and sell assets.  The European Union checks whether large government
subsidies give a company an unfair advantage over others and can
take a state to court to demand it recoup any illegal aid.  ‘Significant Strain’  The ferry operator “could be placed in receivership” at
the request of management or a creditor because of “significant
strain” on cash, Veolia warned in an earnings statement on Nov.
7.  Veolia spokeswoman Sandrine Guendoul said she couldn’t
provide immediate comment.  SNCM has been plagued by labor strife in the past. Veolia
took an impairment loss of 77.8 million euros on non-current
assets of SNCM in 2011 and 35 million euros in 2012, according
to its latest annual report. The ferry operator had a net loss
of 27.5 million euros last year and a 68.9 million-euro loss the
previous year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  