-- EU Risks Violating Bank-Capital Pact, Basel Member Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-11-21T12:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/eu-risks-violating-bank-capital-pact-basel-member-says.html
The European Union risks violating
international bank-capital standards and its implementing law
should face a rigorous review by global regulators, a Swedish
member of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision warned.  The EU’s plans to apply a worldwide pact struck by the
Basel group fall short in multiple areas, from requirements
applied to government debt to treatment of loans to small
businesses, Uldis Cerps, executive director for banking at the
Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, said in an interview on
Nov. 19. The Basel group is set to probe the EU’s compliance
with the rules in a peer review to be completed next year.  “It’s quite clear that there are some things that are not
Basel compliant, according to my view,” Cerps said. “It’s
important that the review team does a thorough job.”  The EU emerged bruised from a preliminary Basel committee
probe last year that cast doubt on its claims to be fully in
line with a global pact to beef up banks’ defenses against
financial crises. The review, based on a draft version of the EU
plans, triggered a  rebuttal  from Michel Barnier, the bloc’s
financial services chief.  The Basel group’s follow-up assessment in 2014 will examine
the final version of the EU’s implementing rules, which were
agreed on by the bloc earlier this year. The review will be led
by Canadian regulators, Cerps said, while last year’s assessment
was led by Australian authorities.  Non-Compliance  “There are a number of issues where the previous report
that has been published identified non-compliance,” Cerps said.
“Sweden had been very vocal about the need to address those
gaps.”  The U.S. will face a similar probe next year that should be
equally rigorous, according to Cerps, who said that he doesn’t
want to prejudge the work of the team that assesses the EU.  Of the reviews completed  so far , the committee has found
China,  Japan ,  Singapore  and Switzerland’s measures to be in
general compliance with the Basel standards.  “The EU’s implementation is fully in line with the spirit
and level of ambition of Basel III,”  Chantal Hughes , a
spokeswoman for Barnier, said by e-mail.  “We said at the time that we weren’t in agreement with the
findings of the preliminary peer review, and stand ready to
provide the Basel committee with all necessary information and
explanations on how we plan to apply Basel III,” she said.  Core Capital  The EU is set to phase in its version of the Basel accord,
known as Basel III, starting in January, and the rules will
fully apply as of 2019.  “Obviously it’s not going to be the same review team, it
may be a different methodology, but the problems of material
non-compliance are still there,”  Nicolas Veron, fellow at the
Brussels-based Bruegel research group, said in a telephone
interview. “One can expect the Basel committee to be
consistent.”  “My expectation is that the U.S. will be found compliant
and that the EU will be found non-compliant,” with Basel III,
he said.  The European Commission has insisted that its rules
implementing Basel III respect the international accord. Some
tweaks were needed because the bloc decided to apply the rules
to all 8,300 EU-based banks rather than invoke its right to
apply the rules only to internationally active lenders,
according to the commission.  ‘Copy-Paste’  “The EU couldn’t simply copy-paste Basel III into its
regulations,” Hughes said. “It had to be integrated with our
existing rules through a democratic process. Also, the EU is
applying the rules to all of its banks, not just the biggest
ones.”  Basel III more than triples the minimum amount of core
capital that internationally active banks must have to at least
7 percent of their risk-weighted assets. The pact also seeks to
tackle other weaknesses exposed by the 2008 financial crisis.  “The rules of the game are that the Basel regulations set
identical minimum standards for internationally active banks,”
Cerps said. Not fully implementing the rules for these lenders
for the sake of also applying them to smaller banks “is in my
view not compliant with the spirit of Basel,” he said.  The committee is developing other requirements for banks,
building on Basel III, Cerps said.  Securitized Debt  Work on overhauling capital requirements for securitized
debt “needs to be completed,” he said. “A new consultation is
expected quite soon.” The Basel group called last year for a
more risk-sensitive approach to setting capital requirements for
securitizations.  The committee is also evaluating whether to set extra
capital requirements for banks based on the risk that they may
lose money on their investments because of interest rate
movements, Cerps said.  The Basel group brings together regulators from 27 nations
including the U.S., U.K. and  China  to co-ordinate their rule-making.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  