-- Europe Stocks Little Changed as Investors Weigh U.S. Data
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-11-20T17:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/european-stock-index-futures-drop-before-u-s-retail-data.html
European  stocks  were little changed
as investors weighed U.S. retail and home- sales (ETSLTOTL)  data, as well as
comments from people familiar with the debate saying the
European Central Bank is considering a smaller-than-normal cut
in the deposit rate if officials decide to take it negative.  Metro AG climbed 2.4 percent after Barclays Plc upgraded
its recommendation on the retailer. Diageo Plc dropped 1.2
percent after Chief Executive Officer Ivan Menezes said
uncertainties in the global economy will drag on sales. Alcatel-Lucent slid 3.5 percent after announcing a capital increase.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.1 percent to 322.91 at
the close of trading. The benchmark gauge yesterday fell from a
five-year high. It is  trading  at 15.1 times projected earnings,
near its highest level since the end of 2009 and more than the
10-year average of 12.1 times earnings, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed.  “The market will take it positively because it shows the
ECB will do everything it can to get consumption going, loans
flowing through the system again,” Michael Woischneck, who
helps oversee about $1.6 billion in equities at Lampe Asset
Management in Dusseldorf, Germany, said by telephone, referring
to the report on the ECB. “I don’t know if that’s a wise thing
to do from a monetary perspective. From a macro perspective and
after the most recent inflation data, they really want to make
banks put money to work.”  National benchmark indexes retreated in 13 of the 18
western European markets, with Spain’s IBEX 35 and  Greece ’s ASE
each dropping 0.7 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 lost 0.3 percent,
 France ’s CAC 40 slipped 0.1 percent and Germany’s DAX advanced
0.1 percent.  Reduce Rate  The Stoxx 600 gained as much as 0.4 percent after a
Bloomberg News report cited two people with knowledge of the
discussions as saying ECB Policy makers would reduce the rate
for commercial lenders who park excess cash at the central bank
to minus 0.1 percent from zero.  It would be the first time the ECB has adjusted interest
rates by less than a quarter of a percentage point. The concept,
which has been discussed by Governing Council members, doesn’t
yet have a consensus, the people said.  In the U.S.,  retail sales  rose more than forecast in
October. The 0.4 percent increase was the most in three months
and followed no change in September, Commerce Department figures
showed today in  Washington . The  median  forecast of 86 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.1 percent October advance.  Separate data showed that purchases of previously-owned
U.S. homes fell in October to the lowest level in four months.
Sales dropped 3.2 percent from a month earlier to a 5.12 million
annual rate, according to the National Association of Realtors
in Washington. The  median forecast  of 76 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg projected a 5.14 million pace.  Fed Minutes  The Fed releases minutes of its October meeting today. The
document will reveal more details on the decision to maintain
its pace of asset purchases at $85 billion a month. Fed policy
makers will probably trim the bond-buying to $70 billion at
their March 18-19 meeting, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said late yesterday the
central bank will probably maintain its target interest rate
long after ending its monthly bond purchases.  Metro gained 2.4 percent to 36.63 euros, posting the
biggest two-day increase since November 2011. Barclays upgraded
 Germany ’s biggest retailer to overweight, similar to a buy
rating, from equal weight, citing the possible sale of a Russian
operation, improving sales trends in key divisions and the
possibility of reducing borrowing costs as expensive debt
matures. Shares soared 7.9 percent yesterday after Metro said it
is considering a partial initial public offering of its Russian
Cash & Carry unit.  Soccer Tournament  Societe Television Francaise 1 (TFI)  jumped 5 percent to 13.99
euros after France beat Ukraine to advance to next year’s soccer
World Cup. TF1, which bought the broadcast rights to the
competition, yesterday fell as much as 1.3 percent in intraday
trading as Natixis wrote that the probability of the French
national team qualifying for the tournament was “very low.”  Zodiac Aerospace (ZC)  climbed 3.1 percent to 122.60 euros, the
highest price since at least February 1993, after the world’s
largest maker of airline seats posted full-year net income of
370.9 million euros ($499 million). That exceeded the 355.5
million-euro average of analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Diageo Plc lost 1.2 percent to 2,005 pence after CEO
Menezes told journalists yesterday he expects the “uncertain”
global economy to continue to affect sales growth for the
world’s biggest distiller.  Diageo Target  Menezes said the company was committed to its profitability
target despite slowing growth in some economies. Diageo said in
August 2011 it would increase sales excluding acquisitions by an
average of 6 percent a year and widen its operating-profit
margin by 200 basis points over three years.  Alcatel-Lucent lost 3.5 percent to 2.80 euros after Bank of
America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. placed 660 million
preferential subscription rights to the company’s shares to
institutional investors. The rights are linked to the network-equipment maker’s American Depositary Receipts, according to a
statement.  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  tumbled 7 percent to 10.17 euros, for
the biggest decline on the Stoxx 600. The carmaker’s plan to
raise funds through a share sale have hit a snag as  China ’s
Dongfeng Motor Corp. seeks a smaller stake than first discussed,
people familiar with the matter said.  ThyssenKrupp AG declined 1.6 percent to 19.09 euros after
Reuters cited bankers familiar with the matter as saying that
the German steelmaker plans to boost capital by 10 percent.
Spokesman Robin Zimmer said in e-mailed comments the company
does not rule out a capital increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Vannucci at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net  