-- Ex-Rochdale Securities Trader Sentenced to 30 Months
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-11-20T00:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/ex-rochdale-securities-trader-sentenced-to-30-months.html
A former Rochdale Securities LLC
trader was sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison for his role in an
unauthorized $1 billion purchase of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  stock that led to
his company’s failure, according to federal prosecutors.  David Miller, 41, was sentenced today in federal court in
Hartford, Connecticut, prosecutors said in a statement. He
pleaded guilty in April to wire fraud and conspiracy to commit
wire and securities fraud.  U.S. District Judge Robert N. Chatigny also ordered Miller
to serve three years of supervised release, with the first six
months under home confinement, and to perform 200 hours of
community service, according to prosecutors.  Miller caused “devastation” to  Stamford , Connecticut-based Rochdale, Assistant U.S. Attorney Paul A. Murphy said in a
court filing this month. “Overnight Rochdale went from being a
respected broker-dealer with about three dozen registered
representatives and employees, to being on life support and
ultimately surrendering its broker-dealer license.”  The government alleged that Miller placed an order on Oct.
25, 2012, for  1.6 million shares  of Apple on behalf of a
customer who wasn’t named in court filings and acted as a co-conspirator. As part of the scheme, the co-conspirator
deliberately wrote the order in a way that allowed Miller to
claim he had misinterpreted it, and that the customer had really
meant to buy a much smaller amount, according to the government.  Shared Profits  If the trade proved profitable, Miller and the co-conspirator would have shared the profits, prosecutors said.
Instead, Cupertino, California-based Apple’s stock didn’t
perform as Miller had hoped, and the brokerage was left
shouldering a loss, the government alleged.  Kenneth C. Murphy, a lawyer for Miller, said in an e-mail
that Miller “accepts responsibility for his illegal actions and
deeply regrets the harm he caused.”  “However, as we said on the day of his plea, this was a
good and decent man who had led an otherwise exemplary life who
acted out of desperation rather than greed,” Murphy said. He
called the sentence “fair and reasonable.”  Miller surrendered to federal authorities in December. He
was released on $300,000 bail.  The case is U.S. v. Miller, 13-cr-00075, U.S. District
Court, District of  Connecticut  (New Haven).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  