-- Mexico Peso Volatility Declines to Three-Week Low on Fed Outlook
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-11-20T16:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/mexico-peso-volatility-declines-to-three-week-low-on-fed-outlook.html
Mexico peso volatility dropped to a
three-week low as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
U.S. policy makers will probably hold down borrowing costs long
after ending monthly bond purchases.  One-month historical volatility, a gauge of the size of the
peso’s fluctuations during the period, fell to 11.22 percent at
10:14 a.m. in Mexico City, the lowest level on a closing basis
since Oct. 29, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The peso
gained 0.4 percent to 12.9185 per dollar.  While economists polled by  Bloomberg News  are calling for
the Fed to pare its $85 billion in monthly asset buying in
March, Bernanke said yesterday “the target for the federal
funds rate is likely to remain near zero for a considerable time
after the asset purchases end.”  Janet Yellen , the nominee to
replace Bernanke, signaled last week that she would maintain the
purchases until she sees a robust U.S. recovery.  The peso “is in a period of consolidation,” Eduardo Rodriguez, a trader at Casa de Bolsa Finamex SAB, said in a
telephone interview from Guadalajara, Mexico. “Even though
Bernanke reaffirmed low rates for a long period of time, that
didn’t come as a surprise.”  The currency briefly pared its gain today as a report
showed Mexico’s retail sales dropped more than forecast, missing
analysts’ estimates for the fourth time in five months.  Retail sales tumbled 4 percent in September from a year
earlier, the national statistics agency reported today. The
median projection of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a
2.5 percent decline.  Yields on peso bonds due in 2024 dropped four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 6.10 percent, the lowest since Nov.
4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in  Mexico  City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  