-- Corzine Appeals Ruling Allowing Full MF Global Repayment
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-11-20T18:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/mf-global-managers-corzine-to-appeal-100-payout-ruling.html
Jon Corzine  and other ex-managers of
MF Global Inc. are appealing a court ruling calling for
100 percent repayment to customers of the bankrupt brokerage, a
move its trustee said may delay distributions.  A notice of appeal was filed yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in  Manhattan  by Corzine, the ex-New Jersey governor and
onetime Goldman Sachs Group Inc. co-chairman, and managers
targeted in a lawsuit, including Bradley Abelow and Henri Steenkamp. They are challenging a Nov. 5 ruling by U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn that would allow all missing
customer funds to be returned by the end of the year.  “We are extremely disappointed that the people who were
responsible for the failure of MF Global are now the ones who
may hold up the final distribution owed to their former
customers,” said  Kent Jarrell , a spokesman for James W. Giddens, the trustee overseeing the distributions. Giddens is
prepared to make his best efforts to return 100 percent of what
customers are owed “but may now be blocked” by the appeal,
Jarrell said in a statement.  Steven Goldberg, a Corzine spokesman, said those appealing
“do not have any desire to delay payments to customers.”  ‘Nothing Preventing’  “This appeal is simply about our view of the law, which is
that once the customers are paid in full, the trustee does not
have any right to step into claims of customers that no longer
exist,” Goldberg said in an e-mailed statement. “There is
nothing preventing the trustee from making full and final
distributions to customers now and then litigating this
appeal.”  MF Global Holdings Ltd., the brokerage’s parent company,
filed for bankruptcy on Oct. 31, 2011, after a wrong-way
$6.3 billion bet on bonds of some of  Europe ’s most indebted
nations.  The company listed assets of $41 billion and debts of
$39.7 billion. More than $1.6 billion in customer funds that
should have been segregated were missing.  Corzine and other parties previously objected to the
distributions, saying in court papers that they would allow
Giddens to improperly assign funds that might be part of the
general creditors’ estate.  Estate Shortfall  The distributions require the court to find that there is a
shortfall in the customers’ estate of at least $632 million, and
advance funds from the general estate of $233 million, according
to court papers.  James Kobak, a lawyer for Giddens, said during the Nov. 5
hearing that there is $837 million in the general estate, an
amount he hopes will be “fortified” by further recoveries. The
only potential source of more recoveries is a lawsuit against
Corzine and the other former executives brought by customers who
claim mismanagement led to the company’s downfall.  Giddens’s request to distribute 100 percent of what
customers are owed had support from the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and representatives of the ex-customers who
sued MF Global’s former managers.  The holding company’s Chapter 11 case is In re MF Global
Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The liquidation of the broker
is In re MF Global Inc., 11-bk-02790, in the same court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 