-- Former HSBC Economist Barker to Start Asia Macro Fund in March
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-11-20T00:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/former-hsbc-economist-barker-to-start-asia-macro-fund-in-march.html
Geoff Barker, a former HSBC Holdings
Plc economist, plans to start a new Asian macro hedge fund in
March after lead managing an earlier pool to a 10.4 percent
annualized gain since 2006.  Counterpoint Asian Macro Fund will be managed by a venture
he set up with  City Financial Investment Co. , making him the
first Asia-based manager backed by the London-headquartered
company, which is led by two former executives of Invesco Ltd.’s
Perpetual asset management unit, he said.  Barker is the latest hedge-fund manager in the region to
join what are known as “platforms” that provide non-investment
services to help them cut startup costs and attract
institutional investors. Hedge-fund startups are turning to the
platforms, such as the one offered by City Financial, after
funds-of-funds that rely on wealthy individuals lost assets
following the global financial crisis in 2008, hampering smaller
 hedge funds ’ ability to raise capital.  “It’s better to be part of a business that we know is
capable of passing due diligence of major investors,” Barker
said in an interview on Nov. 14 in Hong Kong. “In the post-Global-Financial-Crisis world, scale is more important.”  Managers already overseeing $5 billion or more attracted
$127.5 billion of new capital since 2009, while smaller funds
experienced net outflows, according to Chicago-based data
provider Hedge Fund Research Inc.  City Financial  The tie-up with City Financial will allow Barker to avoid
having to hire a larger team and rent greater  office space  in an
uncertain fundraising environment, he said. City Financial,
which has backed other hedge funds such as energy futures and
weather derivatives trader Cumulus Asset Management LLP, also
adds credibility to a new business, he added.  “The most important thing is you should have a business as
well as a fund,” Barker said. “We can do it ourselves but it’s
probably easier, quicker, less risky, more credible if we do it
with a partner that’s already got that.”  City Financial will provide services such as accounting,
 information technology , legal and compliance in exchange for a
share of Counterpoint’s fee revenue, Barker said. It can also
help managers it backs raise money, he said.  City Financial-backed managers oversee a combined $1.3
billion of assets. It was acquired in 2006 by a partnership
formed by Rob Hain, a former chief executive officer of Invesco
Perpetual, and  Andrew Williams , according to its  website .  Among its backers is David Beatty, chairman of Temasek
Holdings Pte-invested Inmet Mining Corp., owner of the second-largest copper project under construction.  Track Record  Barker was the manager of the BIA Pacific Macro Fund, whose
assets peaked at about $400 million in 2009 after starting in
March 2006, for Hong Kong-based Ballingal Investment Advisors
Ltd. The fund was co-managed by the company’s chief investment
officer, Andrew Ballingal.  The BIA fund returned 43 percent in 2008, betting against
equities and commodities while buying bonds, Barker said. Asian
hedge-fund peers lost an average of 20 percent that year, their
worst annual loss, according to an  index  of Singapore-based data
provider Eurekahedge Pte.  The BIA fund gained 20 percent in 2011 and lost 17 percent
in 2009, its worst year, he added. It returned 22 percent this
year before Barker’s departure, making money from  China ’s
liquidity squeeze in June, he said.  The Counterpoint fund, which Barker named to indicate his
contrarian approach and ability to outperform in market
downturns, will trade equity index futures, currencies,
 government bonds  and commodities, Barker said.  Rates, Currencies  Barker is starting his new fund as the low-interest rate,
low-inflation environment, driven partly by goods made by cheap
labor in China and  India , is coming to an end.  “The opportunities are going to be in  interest rates  and
currencies,” Barker said. “It’s only a matter of time and
degree how much interest rates are going to go up. It also re-introduces some two-way flows into the  currency markets  because
some countries will do it more quickly than others.”  Rising interest rates could further create swings in other
risky assets such as stocks and properties, he added.  Barker moved to  Japan  almost 24 years ago as the Japan
economist and head of research for Baring Securities in  Tokyo ,
according to an official biography. He went on to become HSBC’s
Hong Kong-based chief economist and head of research in  Asia 
before the Ballingal stint, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  