-- Former BofA Merrill Asia Cap-Intro Head Tabar Joins Schulte Roth
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2013-11-20T01:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/former-bofa-merrill-asia-cap-intro-head-tabar-joins-schulte-roth.html
Sam Tabar, former head of capital
introductions for the Asia-Pacific region at the Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit, joined Schulte Roth & Zabel
LLP as an attorney catering to hedge funds.  Tabar joined mid-October as a senior lawyer and is
currently based in New York, he said in an e-mailed reply to
questions from  Bloomberg News . He will be working with the New
York-based law firm’s existing clients as well as expanding
relationships with Asia-based managers and investors, he said.  Schulte Roth & Zabel , which has almost 100 lawyers
exclusively focused on representing alternative investment funds
and their managers, has seen increased interest from clients in
Asia on issues such as U.S. regulatory developments,
Tabar said. Capital invested in Asian hedge funds surged to
$103.8 billion, the highest level in five years, according to
Chicago-based researcher Hedge Fund Research Inc.  “The Asia industry is undoubtedly maturing and growing,”
Tabar, 41, said in the e-mail. “Regulatory scrutiny is
increasing. Investors are more sophisticated and therefore more
demanding. This leads  hedge funds  to want the highest quality
legal advice.”  Tabar, a graduate of the  Columbia Law School  and Oxford
University, joined Merrill Lynch in  Hong Kong  in March 2011.
Prior to that, he co-headed the capital raising team for PMA
Investment Advisors Ltd., a Hong Kong-based hedge fund unit of
Japan’s  Sparx Group Co. (8739)   A lawyer by training, Tabar started his career at Skadden,
Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP in New York in 2001.  Schulte Roth & Zebel, founded in 1969, has offices in New
York, Washington D.C. and London, according to the firm. It
represents almost half of the 100 largest hedge funds and over
3,000 investment funds, Tabar said.  When asked about a plan to open an office in  Asia , Tabar
said “the firm has no current plans or timetable for opening an
Asian office.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  