-- German Notes Advance as ECB Said to Mull Negative Deposit Rate
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-11-20T17:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/germany-s-bonds-are-little-changed-as-producer-prices-decline.html
German  government bonds  advanced,
with two-year yields falling to the lowest in a week, after the
 European Central Bank  was said to weigh a negative deposit rate
to bolster growth and prevent deflation.  Italian 10-year bonds pared a decline. The ECB is
considering a smaller-than-normal cut in the deposit rate if
officials decide to take it negative for the first time, two
people with knowledge of the debate said. The U.S. Federal Open
Market Committee is due to release the minutes of its October
meeting today. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
yesterday that officials will probably keep the target interest
rate near zero even after ending bond purchases.  “There does seem to be increasing chatter,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at broker RIA Capital
Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh. “Clearly if we see any signs that
the threat of deflation is growing then the ECB has a few
instruments it can adopt and one of them is to push the deposit
rate into negative territory. That’s clearly helping the short
end of the market, and giving a bit of a lift to bunds.”  Germany’s two-year yield fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 0.10 percent at 5 p.m. London time, after
dropping to 0.091 percent, the least since Nov. 12. The zero
percent note due December 2015 rose 0.04, or 40 euro cents per
1,000-euro ($1,345) face amount, to 99.8.  The five-year yield declined two basis points to 0.64
percent, while the 10-year rate was little changed at 1.71
percent.  Italian Bonds  German government bonds lost 1.2 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. French
securities returned 0.2 percent and Dutch ones fell 1.3 percent.  Italian bonds underperformed their German counterparts as
ECB Governing Council member Jens Weidmann, who heads  Germany ’s
central bank, said he doesn’t “think it’s sensible to” loosen
monetary policy further, telling German weekly newspaper Die
Zeit that the debate about easing “distracts from the the real
roots of this crisis.”  European bonds are being supported as officials debate
further tools to secure the economic recovery and reduce the
risk of deflation after they cut the main refinancing rate to a
record low 0.25 percent on Nov. 7.  Policy makers left the deposit rate, the cost the ECB
charges banks to park excess cash with it, at zero after they
signaled that the effects of taking it into negative territory
can’t be adequately predicted.  ‘Very Careful’  Italy’s 10-year yield rose two basis points to 4.08 percent
after dropping on Nov. 7 to 4.04 percent, the least since May
28. The yield spread over bunds was 237 basis points, still down
more than a percentage point from the 2013 high of 361 reached
in March.  The rate on 10-year Spanish debt rose one basis point to
4.09 percent, leaving the spread with bunds at 238 basis points,
from 412 basis points in February.  ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said yesterday
while he wouldn’t exclude the use of a negative deposit rate if
the outlook for inflation warranted it, he’d be “very careful
with such an instrument.” He also said in an interview
broadcast on  Austria ’s ORF radio that “when  interest rates  stay
too low for too long that creates new risks that one then has to
keep an eye on.”  Volatility on Belgian bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of Ireland and  France ,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities and credit-default swaps.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  