-- German Stocks Little Changed Before U.S. Data
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-11-20T08:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/german-stocks-little-changed-before-u-s-data.html
German stocks  were little changed as
investors awaited U.S. retail and housing data to gauge the
outlook for the  Federal Reserve ’s stimulus policy.  Deutsche Post AG (DPW)  dropped 1.9 percent after Bank of America
Corp downgraded the shares.  Wirecard AG (WDI)  retreated 4.8 percent
after Barclays Plc lowered its rating of the shares.
ThyssenKrupp AG fell 2.1 percent.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  added less than 0.1 percent to 9,197.78 at
9:56 a.m. in Frankfurt. The benchmark measure has surged 21
percent in 2013 as central banks around the world pledged to
leave interest rates low for a prolonged period. The broader
HDAX Index was also little changed today.  “Momentum doesn’t seem to be as bullish any more as some
days ago,” Christoph Hock, an equity sales trader at Alpha
Wertpapierhandels GmbH in Frankfurt, wrote in an e-mail. “There
is more and more bearish talk in the U.S. with investors
starting to question the recent rally.”  In the U.S., a report at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington  may show
 retail sales  rose 0.1 percent in October, having dropped 0.1
percent a month earlier, economists forecast in a Bloomberg
survey. A separate release will probably show  sales  of
previously owned homes slowed to a 5.14 million annual pace,
from a 5.29 million rate a month earlier.  The Federal Reserve will release minutes of its October
policy meeting after European markets close today. The document
will reveal more details on the central bank’s decision to
maintain its pace of asset purchases at $85 billion a month. Fed
policy makers will probably trim the bond-buying to $70 billion
at their March 18-19 meeting, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey.  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 17 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Vannucci at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net  