-- Ghosn Echoes Musk in Questioning Viability of Hydrogen Cars
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2013-11-21T02:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/ghosn-joins-musk-in-questioning-viability-of-fuel-cell-vehicles.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  Chief Executive
Officer Carlos Ghosn said consumers won’t take to fuel-cell
vehicles before the decade’s end, joining Tesla Motors Inc.’s
Elon Musk in questioning the future of hydrogen-powered cars.  Such vehicles only have a few locations to refuel and the
required infrastructure would be prohibitive to build, according
to Ghosn, echoing similar comments by Musk last month. Nissan is
pushing back its plans for fuel-cell cars as the same issue that
has dogged electric vehicles will also work against hydrogen
cars, with consumers waiting for facilities to be built and
investors wanting the cars to be more widespread, Ghosn said at
the Tokyo Motor Show yesterday.  “I would be very curious and interested to see competitors
who say they are going to mass market the car in 2015,” said
Ghosn, an early proponent of electric vehicles who also heads
 Renault SA. (RNO)  “Where is the infrastructure? Who’s going to build
it?”  Automakers from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to  General Motors Co. (GM) 
have invested in fuel-cell technology as an alternative to
electric vehicles, which have been dogged by concerns including
cost, safety, limited range and access to recharging facilities.
Tesla, under U.S. scrutiny for vehicle-fire risk, said this week
that it made an adjustment to its Model S sedan to reduce the
risk of battery packs being punctured and catching fire after
hitting objects in the road.  Not Workable  Musk said in Munich in October that there’s “no way” that
fuel-cell vehicles will be a workable technology. Fuel cells are
too complex, too costly and not clean enough, since most
hydrogen is generated from natural gas, he said.  Tesla competes for resources with hydrogen cars in the form
of government subsidies for rebates, fueling infrastructure and
green-car credits that have made the company profitable this
year.  Musk wasn’t present at the Tokyo Motor Show, where Tesla
was participating for the first time. The Palo Alto, California-based automaker said yesterday that it plans to start delivering
the Model S sedan in  Japan  in the spring of next year.  Ghosn said he thinks the technology for hydrogen-powered
cars won’t be ready until at least 2020. Both Toyota and  Honda
Motor Co. (7267)  have said they plan to sell hydrogen-powered cars by
2015.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  announced plans to lease its fuel cell
vehicle in 2014.  Hyundai Lease   Hyundai, South Korea’s largest automaker, plans a $499-a-month lease for its hydrogen-powered Tucson crossover vehicles
that will arrive in the U.S. next year, the company said at the
Los Angeles Auto Show.  Hyundai has been producing its fuel-cell vehicles in Ulsan,
South Korea since February 2012, and have sold the cars to
countries including Denmark and  Sweden , the company said in a
separate e-mailed statement.  In the U.S., the company plans to initially begin offers of
its Tucson Fuel Cell in  California , which has the most hydrogen
fuel stations in the U.S., and gradually expand the market,
according to the statement.  Toyota, Honda  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, is working on fuel-cell vehicle research with Bayerische Motoren Werke AG. The
Toyota City, Japan-based carmaker is displaying a concept
version of a hydrogen-powered car at the Tokyo show.  “Five years on, we don’t think there’ll be any dominant
technology but various different green technologies,” said
Satoshi Ogiso, a managing officer at Toyota. “For Toyota, we
try to be prepared for any kind of demand that’s expected to
arise.”  Honda and GM signed a pact this year to work on the
technology, while Renault and Nissan are partnering with Daimler
AG and Ford Motor Co. to develop hydrogen cars. Honda showed its
fuel-cell concept car at the Los Angeles show.  Separately, Ghosn said the Nissan-Renault alliance will
miss its target to sell 1.5 million electric vehicles by 2016.
The automakers, which have sold about 120,000 EVs to date, will
probably take an extra “two or three years” to reach the
target than previously expected, he said.  “2016 was optimistic? Yes, obviously, we are already
practically in 2014, we know what are the volumes,” said Ghosn.
“We continue to believe that electric cars are going to the
major component of the car industry.”  For next year, Ghosn said he expects the global car market
to expand by 2 percent to 3 percent, and for major markets
except Japan to grow. Europe should see “some growth” as the
economy stabilizes, while demand in India and  Brazil  should
rebound, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  