-- Giants Ticket Prices Surge 120% After Four Consecutive NFL Wins
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-11-20T16:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/giants-ticket-prices-surge-120-after-four-consecutive-nfl-wins.html
The  New York Giants  are making a
comeback after their worst start in 37 years. So are their fans.  The average ticket resale price for the Giants’ home game
against the  Dallas Cowboys  this week is almost $407, the eighth-highest in the  National Football League  this season, according
to the ticket aggregator TiqIQ. It’s 120 percent above the
average price for the Giants’ Oct. 21 game against the  Minnesota
Vikings .  That 23-7 victory at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford,
New Jersey, started a turnaround for the Giants, who are the
second team in NFL history to win four straight games following
an 0-6 start. They have moved within 1 1/2 games of the National
Football Conference East lead, and the rebound has many of their
fans backing up renewed optimism with their wallets.  “Five weeks ago, this wouldn’t have been the case,”  TiqIQ 
spokesman Chris Matcovich said in an e-mail. “But with the East
being very weak and the Giants having a legit chance of winning
the division if they can get a win Sunday, it’s not surprising
that this rivalry game is a hot ticket.”  At 4-6, the Giants are one game behind the Cowboys (5-5),
who are a half-game behind the first-place  Philadelphia Eagles 
in the division. No NFL division leader has a worse record than
the 6-5 Eagles.  “When I came in, I said, ‘Wow, there’s so much talent
everywhere. Why are we 0-6?’” said Giants linebacker Jon Beason, who was acquired from Carolina on Oct. 4. “And you sit
back, evaluate and you figure out -- let’s start over because
the pieces are there. That’s what guys have done.”  Defensive Improvement  The Giants, listed by the Las Vegas Hotel’s SuperBook as 2
1/2-point favorites against Dallas, haven’t given up a passing
touchdown during their winning streak. It’s the team’s longest
such run since 1996, when it went five straight games without
allowing a passing score, the Elias Sports Bureau said.  The Giants’ defense ranked 26th out of the NFL’s 32 teams
in yards allowed after the 0-6 start. It’s now 11th. In their
four wins, the opposing quarterbacks were third-stringer Scott
Tolzien of the  Green Bay Packers , Terrelle Pryor of the  Oakland
Raiders , third-stringer Matt Barkley of the Eagles after  Michael Vick  aggravated a hamstring injury, and Josh Freeman, who
started for the Vikings two weeks after being cut by the Tampa
Bay Buccaneers.  The Giants this week face  Tony Romo  and a Cowboys’ offense
that ranks fifth in the NFL in scoring at 27.4 points a game.  “It’s going to be a really good test for this defense
that’s been playing particularly well recently,” said Eric Allen, a former Pro Bowl cornerback who’s now an ESPN analyst.  Romo has 12 touchdown passes in his last four starts
against the Giants. In the Week 1 meeting between the teams in
Dallas, Romo threw for two touchdowns to Jason Witten, and the
Cowboys had two defensive scores in a 36-31 win.  Closing Stretch  The Giants finish the season after this week with a stretch
that includes two games against Washington Redskins quarterback
Robert Griffin III and one each against Russell Wilson of the
Seattle Seahawks (10-1),  Philip Rivers  of the San Diego Chargers
(4-6) and  Matthew Stafford  of the Detroit Lions (6-4).  “Defensively they’ve really amped up the pressure, but
these next six weeks they’re facing superstar quarterbacks, so
we’ll see if the Giants are for real,” Allen said.  Giants fans are optimistic, if ticket prices for the
Cowboys’ game are an accurate indication, exceeding even this
week’s Sunday night game between the Denver Broncos (9-1) and
 New England Patriots  (7-3) in Foxborough, Massachusetts.  Ticket Price  Seats for that game, which is a matchup of division leaders
and All-Pro quarterbacks in Denver’s  Peyton Manning  and New
England’s  Tom Brady , are selling for an average of $402,
according to TiqIQ. The Broncos are 2 1/2-point favorites.  The Giants, with Eli Manning at quarterback, actually have
a longer current winning streak than the Broncos and are seeking
to join the 2009 Tennessee Titans as the only NFL teams to win
five games in a row following an 0-6 start. The Titans that year
finished 8-8 and missed the postseason.  No team has reached the playoffs after opening the season
with more than four losses in a row.  “We recognized our issues and our problems,” Giants coach
 Tom Coughlin  told reporters this week. “The captains, the
veteran players that have experienced some great results here,
those are the guys that have held this thing together, try to
solve our problems and to stay as one. I’m not saying that it’s
easy, but that’s what had to happen and it did happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  