-- Ginnie Mae No Longer Weighing Bond Shakeup, President Tozer Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-11-20T14:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/ginnie-mae-no-longer-weighing-bond-shakeup-president-tozer-says.html
Ginnie Mae, the U.S. government-owned corporation that guarantees almost $1.5 trillion of
mortgage bonds, is no longer actively considering merging its
two types of securities, President Ted Tozer said.  Moves by Wall Street dealers and data providers encouraged
by the agency have helped boost the attractiveness to investors
of its Ginnie Mae II securities relative to Ginnie Mae I bonds,
Tozer said in a telephone interview. That’s allowed the share of
issuance by lenders in the Ginnie IIs to grow even larger in
recent months, helping to address his concern that lower volumes
may make trading more difficult, Tozer said.  “We thought at this point we might need to be more
assertive with what we do, but the market is proving its
resiliency and ability to move effectively without us needing to
move overtly,” he said. “The market is telling us it’s working
fine as is, but we’ll continue to keep our ears to the ground.”  The existence of two types of Ginnie Mae securities splits
up trading activity. Ginnie Mae studied whether to seek or make
more dramatic changes with trading projected to fall as rising
 interest rates  curb homeowner refinancing and the Federal
Reserve’s bond purchases reduce available supply, Tozer said
last week.  Liquidity Risks  The Mortgage Bankers Association and Wells Fargo & Co., the
largest U.S. home lender, are among those also citing liquidity
risks in calling for a merger of bonds guaranteed by government-backed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. After reaching $2 trillion
last year, originations will fall to $1.7 trillion this year and
$1.2 trillion in 2014, the association  forecasts . The Fed now
owns $1.4 trillion of the $5.4 trillion of agency mortgage debt,
and is purchasing $40 billion a month to bolster the economy.  Ginnie Mae, formally named the  Government National Mortgage
Association , guarantees bonds mainly filled with home loans
insured by the  Federal Housing Administration  or Department of
Veterans Affairs. It backed the first securities in the modern
mortgage-bond market in 1970.  Ginnie II bonds  differ  from Ginnie Is in several ways,
including the admissibility of mortgages from multiple lenders.
Ginnie IIs also have a smaller minimum servicing fee, giving
issuers more flexibility about which coupon bonds they choose
for their loans and how much cash flow they retain as servicers.  Lenders’ creation of Ginnie II securities, which were
introduced in 1983, is dwarfing their use of Ginnie Is. Ginnie
II single-family issuance totaled $27.5 billion in September,
compared with $3.7 billion for Ginnie I pools, according to an
Oct. 22  statement .  Steadily Decreasing  Creation of Ginnie Is probably fell to less than $1 billion
last month, a share of the market that has been “steadily”
decreasing this year to average about 13 percent, Nomura
Securities International analysts led by Ohmsatya Ravi wrote in
a Nov. 18 report. There would be “many implementation
challenges” in combining the programs, they said.  Ginnie Mae stepped up its consideration of moves such as
ending the Ginnie I program or seeking changes to trading rules
in April, when it sent questionnaires to dealers.  Since then, more dealers have offered paired trades of
Fannie Mae securities and Ginnie IIs, rather than requiring
lenders and investors to first swap from Fannie Mae notes to
Ginnie Is and adding to their transaction costs, Tozer said.
Ginnie II prices are also easier to find on trading terminals
than in the past, and new disclosures allow investors to better
identify once-delinquent loans, he said.  The agency may seek changes to  rules  set by the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association that govern which
debt can be used to satisfy forward contracts in the so-called
To-Be-Announced market, such as those regarding allowed loan
maturities and “specified” pools, Tozer said.  Ginnie IIs represented 66 percent of the agency’s $1.46
trillion of outstanding bonds in September, compared with 51
percent of its $1.22 trillion in securities two years earlier,
according to  data  on its website.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  