-- Global Aviation Second Bankruptcy Can Stay in Delaware
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-11-20T16:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/global-aviation-second-bankruptcy-can-stay-in-delaware.html
Global Aviation Holdings Inc., the
biggest charter-flight company for U.S. military troops, can go
ahead in Delaware with its second bankruptcy in less than two
years, a judge in New York ruled.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Carla E. Craig in  Brooklyn  said today
that the company’s Chapter 11 case, filed Nov. 12 in Wilmington,
Delaware, can go forward and that a new judge can sort out the
remaining issues from its prior case in Brooklyn.  Lingering claims in Brooklyn are “not something to justify
disturbing the debtors’ choice of venue,” Craig said.  The company previously went into bankruptcy in February
2012, saying it needed to shed more than half of its aircraft
and citing the end of flights to Iraq and  Afghanistan .  After exiting court protection as a new company, it
“continued to encounter various financial and operational
hurdles, including decreased demand for military cargo and
passenger services resulting from government budget
constraints,” the company said.  It switched courts for the new case because its operations
have moved south, said the company, parent of World Airways and
North American Airlines.  “In light of the relocation of North American’s operations
from  Jamaica , New York, to Peachtree City,  Georgia , in August
2012, the Global Aviation entities do not have a domicile,
principal place of business, or principal assets” in Brooklyn,
the company said in court papers.  U.S., Overseas  Its assets are in Georgia,  Florida ,  Maryland  and places
overseas such as Germany, Belgium and Azerbaijan, the company
said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath in Delaware last week
ended the initial hearing for the company’s second bankruptcy
after a few minutes, saying lawyers needed to figure out if
there’s a way to pursue the new case in Wilmington instead of
returning to Brooklyn.  Global aviation’s most recent bankruptcy petition listed
assets and liabilities of as much as $1 billion each. It seeks
court permission to borrow as much as $51 million to keep
operating in bankruptcy.  The company’s 14 percent notes due 2013 recently traded at
33.88 cents on the dollar, according to Bloomberg pricing data.  The new case is In re Global Aviation Holdings Inc. 13-bk-12945, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of  Delaware 
(Wilmington).
The old case is In re Global Aviation Holdings Inc., 12-bk-40783, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Brooklyn, New York,
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 