-- GM Says Chevy Truck Can Out-Tow Tacoma in Toyota Challenge
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-11-20T21:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/gm-says-chevy-truck-can-out-pull-tacoma-in-challenge-to-toyota.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  said its
redesigned Chevrolet  Colorado  mid-sized pickup, introduced today
at the  Los Angeles  Auto Show, has greater towing capacity than
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Tacoma as the automaker returns to the
segment to challenge the market leader.  “This is a real workhorse but it also has that lifestyle
element to it as well,” Alan Batey, head of GM’s Chevrolet
brand, told reporters in  Detroit  last week. “We didn’t want to
just create a really pretty truck that’s accessorized but can’t
do anything. This is a real, real capable truck.”  The new 2015 Colorado, which goes on sale in the second
half of next year, will be able to tow loads of more than 6,700
pounds (3,039 kilograms). That compares with Toyota’s Tacoma
truck, which can pull a maximum of 6,500 pounds, according to
the company’s  website . GM’s truck will initially be offered with
a 2.5-liter, four-cylinder engine or 3.6-liter V-6 engine and in
its second year will get a diesel version, the Detroit-based
company said today in an e-mailed statement.  While  Ford Motor Co. (F) , GM and Chrysler LLC dominate big
pickups, Toyota has become the top mid-size truck seller in the
U.S. market. GM is revisiting the segment after halting
production for the U.S. last year, in a bet it can appeal to
Toyota buyers, particularly in  California , the largest market
for mid-sized trucks.  Pickup Variety  The new Colorado truck also extends an effort by GM to
offer a wider variety of pickups in the U.S. than any other
company. With the Colorado, GM will have mid-size, full-size and
heavy-duty trucks on sale. It will offer a GMC version of the
Colorado called the Canyon, which will be reintroduced next
year.  “We believe that three trucks will provide us with the
right truck for our customers in the segment where they want the
vehicle,” Batey said. “The vision for our midsized truck was
really simple: To produce the most capable, versatile and fuel-efficient mid-sized truck America has ever seen.”  Ford, whose F-Series has been the best-selling truck for 36
years, only sells full-size and heavy-duty versions, as does
Chrysler’s Ram brand. Toyota doesn’t offer a heavy-duty pickup
while offering full-size and compact trucks.  Tacoma led the mid-size segment last year with 141,365
deliveries, a 28 percent gain from 2011, according to researcher
Autodata Corp.  “We’d like to take leadership in this segment” with
combined sales of the Colorado and Canyon,  Mark Reuss , president
of GM North America, told reporters at the show in Los Angeles
today. “It doesn’t happen overnight.”  Combined U.S. sales of the Colorado and Canyon peaked in
2005 with 163,668 deliveries. That compares with U.S. sales of
GM’s full-size pickups of 575,497 last year.  Refreshed Vehicles  The Colorado will be available in three versions, an
extended cab with a 6-foot (1.83 meter) bed and crew cab
versions with either a 5-foot or 6-foot bed. GM didn’t disclose
prices for the new Colorado. In September, consumers paid an
average price of $27,903 for a mid-size truck compared with an
average $40,860 for full-size and heavy-duty pickups, according
to Edmunds data.  The Colorado is among the 18 new or refreshed vehicles
being brought out this year and 14 next year by GM as its works
to transform its lineup from among the oldest into the newest.  Shares of the automaker fell less than 1 percent to $37.69
at the close in  New York  today, paring their advance to 31
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  