-- Gold Rigging Probe, EU Funds, China IPO Rules: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-11-20T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/gold-rigging-probe-eu-funds-china-ipo-rules-compliance.html
The U.K. Financial Conduct Authority
is reviewing gold benchmarks as part of its wider probe of how
global rates are set, a person with knowledge of the matter
said.  The FCA review is preliminary and hasn’t risen to the level
of a formal investigation, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the matter isn’t public. The person declined
to say which gold benchmarks were under scrutiny.  One of the key benchmarks is the London gold fixing, which
determines the spot price for physical gold and is set twice
daily by a panel of five banks.  Regulators around the world are examining alleged abuses of
a number of financial benchmarks by companies that play a
central role in setting them after it emerged the London
interbank offered rate, the benchmark interest rate for more
than $360 trillion of securities worldwide, was being
manipulated.  The scandal also sparked reviews of how to improve the way
rates are set to prevent them from being rigged in the future,
as well as which ones should have formal oversight.  Lara Joseph, a spokeswoman for the FCA, declined to comment
on the review.  Compliance Policy  Money-Market Funds Face Push for Tougher Rules by EU Lawmaker  Money-market funds with a fixed share price should be
banned from operating in the European Union from 2020, according
to an EU lawmaker seeking tougher rules than Michel Barnier, the
bloc’s financial services chief.  Banning funds that don’t have a floating share price would
make the industry “less susceptible to runs,” according to
plans prepared by Said El Khadraoui, a Belgian member of the
assembly’s Socialist group.  El Khadraoui’s plans were published on the assembly’s
website. He is also seeking tougher pay transparency rules, and
for the largest funds to be supervised at EU level.  Regulators have sought stricter curbs on money-market funds
since the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve
Primary Fund. Its failure, caused by losses on debt issued by
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., triggered a wider run on the
industry that helped freeze global credit markets.  Money-market funds hold more than a fifth of short-term
debt securities issued by governments and corporates in the EU
and more than a third of short-term bank debt. The EU industry
has about 1 trillion euros ($1.35 trillion) of assets under
management, accounting for around 15 percent of the European
fund industry, according to EU data.  Barnier unveiled proposals to regulate the sector in
September, including requiring funds that maintain a fixed share
price, known as constant net-asset value, or CNAV, funds, to
build up a cash buffer equivalent to 3 percent of their assets.  Under El Khadraoui’s plan, CNAV funds would have until the
end of 2019 to convert into funds with floating share prices.  Yellen Says Fed to ‘Carefully Consider’ SIFI Rules for Insurers  Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Janet Yellen said the central
bank will “carefully consider” how to apply new regulatory
standards to insurance companies that fall under the central
bank’s supervision.  The Dodd-Frank Act gives regulators the authority to place
insurance companies and other non-bank financial institutions
under Fed supervision if they are large enough to pose systemic
risk to the financial system. Companies such as New York-based
 MetLife Inc. (MET)  argue that their businesses aren’t suited to bank-like regulation in part because their liabilities are in the
form of policies rather than short-term deposits.  In a written response to questions from Louisiana
Republican Senator David Vitter, Yellen pointed out that Dodd-Frank does not permit regulators to apply minimum capital
requirements that are lower than those for banks.  President  Barack Obama  nominated Yellen last month to serve
as Fed chairman.  Xiao Says China IPO Rules to Cut Bureaucracy, Boost Markets  China ’s planned new rules for share sales will boost the
role of market forces, securities regulator Xiao Gang said, as
the government pledges to loosen its control of the world’s
second-largest economy.  The switch to a system of registration rather than approval
of IPOs is the key to all capital-market reforms, Xiao said at a
conference in Beijing yesterday, in his first major public
speech since taking over the China Securities Regulatory
Commission in March. Under the rules, regulators will be
responsible only for ensuring companies’ disclosures meet
requirements, rather than approving the share sale itself, he
said.  Under current rules for public share sales, the CSRC’s
listing committee must examine each application and determine
whether a company is fit for listing. The country hasn’t had an
IPO since October last year, leaving more than 700 companies
awaiting regulatory approval.  The shift to the new system must be gradual to avoid shocks
to the market, Xiao said. Before ending the freeze the CSRC is
also drafting rules to curb misconduct that would establish
stiff penalties for investment banks.  Lawmakers Urge Reid to Reject Dodd-Frank Exemptions for Oil  House Democrats asked U.S. Senate Majority Leader Harry
Reid, a Democrat from  Nevada , in a letter to reject any efforts
to waive Dodd-Frank rules requiring that oil companies disclose
payments to foreign governments during implementation of a U.S.-
Mexico drilling agreement.  The Senate and House are working to agree on final
legislation to implement the U.S.-Mexico Transboundary
Agreement, which was agreed to by the Mexican Senate in 2012 and
the U.S. Senate in October.  The House has its own implementing bill for the
Transboundary Agreement, known as H.R. 1613.  Compliance Action  JPMorgan Said to Quit Everbright Bank Share Sale Amid U.S. Probe  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  ended plans to manage  China Everbright
Bank Co. (601818) ’s Hong Kong share sale amid a U.S. investigation into
the Wall Street firm’s hiring practices in China, two people
with knowledge of the matter said.  The U.S. bank told Everbright it would quit the deal, which
at $2 billion would be the largest first-time offering by a
Chinese lender in Hong Kong since 2009, because the probe
delayed an internal approval process, the people said. They
asked not to be identified because the matter is confidential.
 Brian Marchiony , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in May
requested records from JPMorgan concerning Tang Xiaoning, the
son of China Everbright Group Chairman Tang Shuangning, the  New
York  Times reported in August, citing a confidential government
document.  Everbright Bank said last month that it won regulatory
approval to sell as many as 12 billion shares in Hong Kong. Lu
Hong, a board secretary at the bank’s Beijing office, didn’t
return a call seeking comment after working hours yesterday.  The Wall Street Journal reported JPMorgan’s decision to
exit the equity offering yesterday.  Interviews  JPMorgan Legal Woes Have Peaked, Algebris’s Serra Says  Davide Serra, founding partner and portfolio manager at
Algebris Investments, talked about the record $13 billion
settlement between JPMorgan Chase & Co. and the U.S. Justice
Department over civil, state and U.S. probes involving the sale
of mortgage bonds.  Serra, who spoke with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle  on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers,” also talked about the
outlook for financials.  For the video, click here.  Lew Says Treasury’s Debt Measures to Last About a Month  U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew talked about the
prospects for increasing the country’s debt ceiling, the economy
and banking regulation.  Lew, who spoke with the Wall Street Journal’s Gerard Baker
at the Wall Street Journal CEO Council conference in  Washington ,
also discussed China’s economy and government policies.  For the video, click here.  Special Section: Frankfurt Conference  Clausen Says Banks Approaching Limits on Adding Capital  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  Chief Executive Officer and  European Banking
Federation  President Christian Clausen talked about capital
adequacy rules.  He spoke on a panel session at Euro Finance Week in
 Frankfurt .  For the video, click here.  Wieser Says EU Bank Reviews Will Have Similar Effect to TARP  The euro area’s bank reviews and transition to a common
oversight regime will have a similar effect to U.S. bank
recapitalization programs even though the specifics differ,
Thomas Wieser, the official in charge of preparing meetings of
euro-area finance ministers, said at the Frankfurt conference.  “It would be a mistake to look at a carbon copy of TARP
and TALF and so on and so forth because of the very different
circumstances,” Wieser said. “Financial market stability has
been essentially regained. That was not the case at that stage
in the U.S.”  Still, “there will be a high degree of similarity and
economic effect to what the single supervisor will be doing,
even though it looks totally different,” he said.  Walter, Pleister, Veron on European Bad Bank Outlook  Hans-Juergen Walter, partner at Deloitte Financial
Services, Christopher Pleister, chairman of the German Financial
Market Stabilization Agency, and Nicolas Veron, senior fellow at
Bruegel, spoke on a panel discussion about the prospects of a
European so-called bad bank.  Bloomberg’s Paul Gordon moderated the session at Euro
Finance Week in Frankfurt.  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey
at   cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 