-- Green Mountain Gains as Quarterly Profit Tops Estimates
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-11-21T21:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/green-mountain-forecast-trails-estimates.html
Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) ,
the maker of Keurig-brand single-cup pods and machines, reported
fourth-quarter profit that surpassed analysts’ estimates as K-Cup and brewer sales rose. The stock jumped the most since May.  Fourth-quarter net income increased 38 percent to $127
million, or 83 cents a share, from $91.9 million, or 58 cents, a
year earlier, Waterbury, Vermont-based Green Mountain said
yesterday in a statement. Excluding some items, profit was 89
cents a share. Analysts estimated 75 cents, on average.  Chief Executive Officer Brian Kelley has been trying to
attract customers with more brands of K-Cup pods and higher-end
coffeemakers as grocers including Safeway Inc. and  Whole Foods
Market Inc. (WFM)  introduce private-label single-cup packs. Green
Mountain’s single-serve capsule sales rose 11 percent in the
quarter, compared with 18 percent growth in the prior quarter.
Brewer and accessory sales jumped 27 percent.  Green Mountain rose 14 percent to $70.57 at the close in
 New York , for the biggest one-day gain since May 9. The  shares 
have added 71 percent this year, while the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index has advanced 26 percent.  First-quarter earnings will be as much as 90 cents a share,
the company said. That trailed analysts’ average estimate of 96
cents.  Sales in the first  quarter  will increase at a “low-to-mid
single” digit rate compared with last year “due to difficult
brewer and portion pack sales comparisons; the impact of
unlicensed packs; and, the currency headwind in  Canada ,” the
company said in the statement.  The company also said yesterday that the board approved a
share buyback authorization of as much as $1 billion for the
next two years and a $1 a share annual dividend, payable 25
cents a quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  