-- Gulf Arabs Face Mixed Blessing From an Iran Accord: Arab Credit
-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2013-11-21T13:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/gulf-arabs-face-mixed-blessing-from-an-iran-accord-arab-credit.html
A nuclear deal between  Iran  and
countries including the U.S. and Russia could prompt sovereign
upgrades of Persian Gulf Arab nations even as it may cut their
revenue by causing  oil prices  to fall, according to  IHS (IHS)  Inc.  “The reduction in geopolitical risk would serve as a key
trigger for a sovereign ratings review for the countries of the
Gulf Cooperation Council, and potentially an upgrade,” Bryan
Plamondon, an economist specializing in the  Middle East  at
energy consultant IHS, said yesterday by e-mail from Lexington,
 Massachusetts . “Countries would then likely see benefits in the
form of lower borrowing costs and greater foreign investment.”  Talks between Iran and the so-called P5+1 group of world
powers resumed yesterday at diplomats level in Geneva.
“Differences that remain between the parties are narrow, and I
believe they can be bridged with political will and
commitment,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said in
 London . Concern that Iran seeks to make an atomic bomb and the
civil war in  Syria , where Iran supports President Bashar al-Assad, have helped boost crude prices to more than $115 a barrel
twice in the past 12 months.  The cost of insuring Qatari debt against default is 67
basis points, or 0.67 of a percentage point, compared with 13
basis points for  Norway ,  Europe ’s biggest natural gas supplier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Qatar is the largest
exporter of liquefied natural gas, which sells at prices linked
to oil. Norway also pays 40 percent less than the United Arab
Emirates sheikhdom of Dubai to borrow for 10 years, data show.  Qatar’s Target  Middle Eastern political risk weighs on GCC credit ratings.
All six nations of the regional group are ranked as investment
grade at Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s . The
agencies respectively rate  Kuwait , Qatar and the U.A.E. as Aa2
or AA,  Saudi Arabia  as Aa3 and AA-, Oman as A1 and A, and
Bahrain as Baa2 and BBB. Qatar seeks to raise its S&P rating by
two levels to AAA, putting it on par with countries including
Canada and Norway, Finance Minister Yousef Kamal said in March.  Iran’s government says its program to enrich uranium is
intended for electricity generation and other peaceful purposes.
The U.S. and the European Union dispute the claim and have
imposed economic sanctions on the Islamic Republic to try to
halt its nuclear progress. The EU stopped buying Iranian crude
as of July 2012, and Iran has made sporadic threats to shut the
 Strait of Hormuz , a transit point for one fifth of the world’s
seaborne oil and all of Qatar’s LNG.  Ranking Lowered   Iran was the second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries until last year, then tumbled to
sixth place as sanctions toughened. The country pumped 2.6
million barrels daily in October, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Emad Mostaque, a London-based strategist at Noah Capital
Markets, said oil prices could drop by $15 a barrel should a
diplomatic settlement remove the risk of conflict and allow Iran
to maximize its crude exports by as much as 2 million barrels a
day. Iran’s neighbors in the GCC supplied 20.9 million barrels
on average in 2012, or about 24 percent of the world’s oil last
year, according to data from BP Plc.  “The major Gulf states have minimal debt and huge cash
positions, so it’s unlikely any nuclear agreement will cause
significant tightening” of their public finances, he said in a
Nov. 17 e-mail.  Saudi Arabia, the U.A.E. and Kuwait would “certainly” be
able to handle a decline in oil prices if a settlement with Iran
leads to greater flows of Iranian crude to market “or, at a
minimum, a reduction in the  risk premium  associated with Iran,”
said Plamondon of IHS.  Historic Chat  Hassan Rouhani, the new Iranian president, and U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  agreed in a Nov. 18 phone call -- the
first such direct contact between their governments in more than
a decade -- to make the most of the latest round of talks,
according to a statement from the U.K. prime minister’s office.  OPEC may need to curb output next year amid increasing
crude supply from producers outside the group such as the U.S.
and  Kazakhstan , Citigroup Inc. said in a report earlier this
week. The group has kept its output target at 30 million barrels
a day since 2011 and will meet on Dec. 4 to reassess the limit.  With Qatar planning to spend $200 billion on infrastructure
in preparation for playing host to the soccer  World Cup  in 2022,
an upgraded credit rating would save it billions of dollars and
offset any drop in revenue from energy exports, Plamondon said.  Dubai Trade  The U.A.E. would benefit from renewed trade with Iran.
Dubai’s commerce with Iran fell 31 percent in 2012 and 12
percent in the first half of this year, he said.  Qatar “shares with the other GCC member states a moderate
degree of geopolitical event risk arising from regional and
global tensions vis-a-vis Iran,” Moody’s said earlier in the
week. The agency on Nov. 14 confirmed Saudi Arabia’s Aa3 rating,
which, it said, incorporated “an element of geopolitical risk
because of its strategic rivalry with Iran.”  Prices for  Brent crude , a benchmark for more than half of
the world’s oil, would have to slip below $80 a barrel before
Qatar and Saudi Arabia post financial deficits, S&P said on Nov.
18. OPEC’s collective “basket” price averaged $104.58 a barrel
yesterday, while Brent was at $108.41 at 12:51 p.m. today in
London.  “Reduced tension and a rise in Iranian oil sales will mean
a lower price, but the trade and budget balances of countries
like the U.A.E. are quite strong,”  Giyas Gokkent , chief
economist at the National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC, said in an e-mail on Nov. 17. “If these come down a bit, there won’t be a
rating impact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  