-- Li Becomes China’s 2nd-Richest Man as Baidu Shares Climb
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-20T03:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/li-becomes-china-s-2nd-richest-man-as-baidu-shares-climb.html
Robin Li, founder of China’s top
Internet search engine  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , has become the country’s
second-richest man after his shares rose 63 percent this year.  Li’s net worth advanced to $11.9 billion, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index. He overtook Hangzhou Wahaha Group
Chairman  Zong Qinghou , who is worth $11.8 billion and was once
China’s wealthiest individual just three months ago. Li trails
Dalian Wanda Group founder and developer Wang Jianlin.  Baidu has  climbed  more than 50 percent on the  Nasdaq  since
July 16 when the Beijing-based company said it would acquire
Chinese mobile app developer 91 Wireless Websoft Ltd. The $1.9
billion purchase, together with four  acquisitions  Li has made
over the past year, helped Baidu sap its primary challenger
Qihoo 360 Technology Co. as more Internet users tap smartphones.  “With aggressive investment and strong execution, the
company has built a comprehensive product offering in mobile
phones through both internal R&D and strategic acquisitions,”
Fawne Jiang and Long Lin, analysts at Brean Capital LLC wrote in
an October 30 report. They have a “buy” rating on the stock.  Baidu bought a stake in group-buying site Nuomi.com for
$160 million in August and Internet video business PPStream Inc.
in June for $370 million.  The company, whose name is derived from an ancient Chinese
poem, is buying companies to accelerate its transition to mobile
devices, where traffic is at least doubling annually, Li said in
a televised interview with “Bloomberg West” last month.  Online Travel  Qunar Cayman Islands Ltd. (QUNR) , a Chinese travel-booking service
controlled by Baidu, raised $167 million in a U.S. initial
public offering earlier this month. Qunar, which means
“where to go” in Chinese, has risen more than 70 percent
since its debut.  Baidu is China’s second-largest Internet company by market
value after Hong Kong-listed  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  Tencent
Chairman Ma Huateng has a net worth of $10.8 billion and is
China’s fourth-richest man, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index.  Li, also known as Li Yanhong in Chinese, is the fourth of
five children born to factory workers in Yangquan, China, a two-hour flight from Beijing. Urged by his mother to get a good
education, he was accepted at the prestigious  Peking University ,
where he graduated in 1991 with a bachelor’s degree in
information management.  U.S. Educated  He later moved to the U.S. and earned a graduate degree in
computer science at the  State University of New York , Buffalo.
He worked at Dow Jones & Co. in Princeton,  New Jersey ,
developing software while researching a link analysis algorithm
that ranked Internet searches. In 1997, at the same time
Google’s founders were developing their search algorithm, Li
took his research to his boss at Dow Jones, who rejected it.  “I was told: That’s not what we do,” Li said in the
Bloomberg TV interview in October. So he left Dow Jones to work
for Infoseek in  California . In 2000, Li returned to  China  and
co-founded Baidu in Beijing.  Nearly all of Li’s wealth stems from his 20.8 percent stake
in Baidu. The shares are  owned  directly by Li and his wife
Melissa Dongmin Ma and through Handsome Rewards Ltd., a British
Virgin Islands-based holding company.  The 45-year-old billionaire also owns 1 percent of 360buy
Jingdong Mall, a closely held Chinese online retailer.  Wang Jianlin became China’s richest man in August, vaulting
over Zong. He leads the country’s biggest commercial land
developer and is accelerating acquisitions overseas.  The Bloomberg Billionaires Index is a daily ranking of the
world’s richest people. Each Bloomberg Billionaire profile
contains a detailed analysis of how that person’s fortune is
tallied. The index measures the world’s wealthy based on changes
in markets, the economy and Bloomberg reporting. Each net worth
figure is updated every business day at 5:30 p.m. in  New York .  Stakes in publicly traded companies are valued using the
share’s most recent closing price. Valuations are converted to
U.S. dollars at current exchange rates.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Chu at 
 pachu@bloomberg.net  