-- Liberty Global Says Looking at Ziggo Deal ‘Long Term’
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-11-20T16:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/liberty-global-says-looking-at-ziggo-deal-long-term-.html
Liberty Global Plc (LBTYA)  is still studying
a combination with  Ziggo NV (ZIGGO)  to expand in the Netherlands, after
the Dutch cable-television provider said last month it had
rejected its offer.  “We clearly are looking long term about the possibility of
a combination,” Liberty Global Chief Financial Officer Charles Bracken said today at an investor conference in Barcelona.
“There are clearly synergies, however Liberty is very
disciplined about prices.”  Bracken said that for now, Liberty Global is happy to
maintain its stake of about 29 percent of Ziggo, which will be
led by Rene Obermann from Deutsche Telekom AG in the new year.
Liberty Global has sought to  extend its reach  in  Europe ,
acquiring the U.K.’s Virgin Media Inc. for about $16 billion
this year and attempting to buy Kabel Deutschland Holding AG, a
German cable company, before being outbid by Vodafone Group Plc.  The company may also look at buying out the minority stake
in  Telenet Group Holding NV (TNET) , a Belgian cable TV provider,
Bracken said. Liberty Global said it held about  58 percent  of
the company.  Ziggo  rose  as much as 1.9 percent after Bracken’s comments.
Shares traded down less than 1 percent at 31.57 euros at 5:08
p.m. in Amsterdam. Liberty Global gained 0.3 percent to $79.48
in  New York .  There’s not much left to buy in Europe, and Liberty
Global’s focus is on developing the assets it has, Bracken said
at a conference organized by Morgan Stanley.  ‘Less Attractive’  “Europe has been profitable for us and our investors,”
Bracken said. “In terms of the markets we have not yet entered
that remain available, places like France and Scandinavia,
they’re less attractive to us. It’s become less of a
consolidation game and more about trying to monetize and build
on that scale.”  Ziggo rejected London-based Liberty Global’s August
takeover proposal as “inadequate,” according to a statement
last month by the Utrecht-based company. The Dutch market is
still very competitive, because of rivals such as  KPN NV (KPN) , and
“not out of the woods,” Bracken said.  To grow in mobile services, Liberty Global is set to expand
its so-called mobile virtual network operator business, Bracken
said.  “We are in the process of finalizing and launching MVNOs
across much of our markets in the next 18 months and have moved
from a development phase to a phase which is more operational,”
Bracken said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in Barcelona at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  