-- Iceberg Vodka Plugs Purity as Mayor Ford’s Top Drink
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-11-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/iceberg-vodka-plugs-purity-as-mayor-ford-s-top-drink.html
Canadian Iceberg Vodka Corp. boasts
that water from melted icebergs makes its tipple pure, even if
one of the drink’s most famous fans -- Toronto Mayor Rob Ford --
has been less than clean.  Iceberg Vodka got a publicity boost last week with the
release of court documents showing that Ford’s former employees
told police Iceberg was the mayor’s preferred brand, and that
staff members were sent out to buy it for him. Ford was stripped
of most of his budget and decision-making powers on Nov. 18
after admitting he smoked  crack cocaine , and that he may have
drank alcohol before driving.  Those revelations prompted Iceberg Chief Executive Officer
David Meyers to release a  statement  on Twitter reminding
customers not to drink and drive and to enjoy vodka responsibly.  “We took an approach that we would lie low and this would
blow over,” Meyers said in a phone interview. “When we heard
about drinking and driving, that’s when it crossed a line for us
from a responsibility point of view.”  Since then, there’s been an “increased level of chatter”
on Iceberg’s Twitter and Facebook accounts, he said.  One former Ford staff member told police in documents
released by an Ontario court that he drank a 12-ounce bottle of
vodka in his car in two minutes, and then drove away. Another
ex-staffer said she bought him a bottle of vodka, preferably
Iceberg, twice a week. Ford said Nov. 18 that he hasn’t had a
drink in three weeks and that he isn’t addicted to drugs or
alcohol.  Meyers is trying to take advantage of the publicity to
change the conversation from Ford to the vodka and how it’s made
using 20,000-year-old icebergs.  Iceberg Alley  “Now we have their attention, and then it shifts to
conversations such as, ‘Do you know we harvest icebergs?’”  Warming to his favorite topic, Meyers says his company is
the only vodka maker in the world that  harvests  the mountains of
ice off  Canada ’s Atlantic shores.  Every May and June off the coast of Newfoundland in an area
known as Iceberg Alley, smaller chunks of freshwater ice, or
growlers, break off from icebergs in a process known as calving.
The Toronto-based company nets more than 1,000 tons of growlers
each year and brings them ashore. The melted water is mixed with
an Ontario distillate made from sweet corn. The resulting blend
is bottled in Newfoundland and sold across Canada, the U.S. and
about 20 other countries.  As a closely held company, Iceberg doesn’t disclose sales.
Meyers said that his firm has a 5 percent share of the Canadian
vodka market and sales by volume increased about 10 percent in
the 12 months to August.  Gaining Share  That means Iceberg is gaining market share, which is
“pretty good when you consider the total vodka business is
pretty much flat, up a little bit,” Meyers said.  Meyers, who used to run the U.S. distribution business for
wines and spirits maker  Remy Cointreau SA (RCO) , said it’s too soon to
say whether the Ford-fueled social media buzz has affected
sales, for better or worse.  A 750-milliliter (26-ounce) bottle sells for C$25.45
($24.34) in Toronto. The brand was stocked in a display this
week at a branch of the Liquor Control Board of Ontario, the
Ontario monopoly that sells wine and spirits. The prominent
display wasn’t a reaction to the Ford scandal, because the LCBO
typically plans in-store promotions months in advance, he said.  “I can tell you for sure that it has absolutely nothing to
do with what’s taken place in the past three weeks,” Meyers
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  