-- Microsoft Claims Acacia Patent Suits Breach Licensing Pact
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-11-20T22:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/microsoft-claims-acacia-patent-suits-breach-licensing-pact.html
Microsoft Corp., (MSFT)  the world’s largest
software maker, filed a lawsuit today claiming patent-licensing
firm Acacia Research Corp. breached a contract between the two
companies.  The complaint was filed today under seal in federal court
in  Manhattan  and a public copy wasn’t available.  Acacia, which buys patents to generate a profit from
licensing revenue, filed seven lawsuits last month against
Microsoft in  Delaware ,  Illinois  and  Texas . In the past, the two
companies have reached agreements, including a 2011 deal over e-mail messaging and one in 2010 over patents for smartphone
technology.  “Acacia’s lawsuits are the worst kind of abusive
litigation behavior, attempting to extract payment based on
litigation tactics and not the value of its patents,” Microsoft
Deputy General Counsel  David Howard  said in a statement.  Acacia, which reported $115.5 million in sales for the
first three quarters, doesn’t sue in its own name, though it has
filed hundreds of lawsuits. Instead, it forms a unit to handle a
specific portfolio and then the unit -- named for the technology
it covers -- files the suits. In its annual report, the Newport
Beach, California-based company said it had 143 “technology
licensing programs.”  The  lawsuits  filed in October against Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft include one for light-emitting panel assemblies
and another for a way to control the use of licensed software.  Adam Handelsman, a spokesman or Acacia, had no immediate
comment on the suit.  Troll Suits  The Government Accountability Office found that 19 percent
of all patent lawsuits filed between 2007 and 2011 were by
companies often derided as trolls, whose sole business is to buy
up patents and then demand royalties. With changes in
legislation that limited the number of defendants in a single
suit, that number increased even more in 2012.  Congress is considering proposals that would limit some
litigation practices by patent-licensing firms. The provisions
being considered include a requirement that patent owners
provide more details about both what the patent covers and how
its infringed, disclose who benefits financially from the
litigation, and make the loser in a case pay the winner’s legal
costs.  The case is Microsoft Corp. v.  Acacia Research Corp. (ACTG) , 13-cv-8275, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  