-- Illinois Beats Investment Return Goals Amid Pension Stalemate
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s ,   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r
-- 2013-11-20T23:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/illinois-beats-investment-return-goals-amid-pension-stalemate.html
Illinois is beating pension
investment goals despite a long-running stalemate over
restructuring its retirement systems, according to the executive
director of the Illinois State Board of Investment.  William Atwood, whose board oversees three funds covering
state employees, judges and General Assembly members, said today
they earned 14.6 percent through the year ending Sept. 30,
exceeding the goal of 11.8 percent. The funds have the majority
of their assets in equities. The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX) 
climbed 17 percent in the 12 months through Sept. 30.  “Our portfolio is going to live or die by equity
markets,” Atwood said in an interview at the Bloomberg News
bureau in  Chicago . “Barring a calamity in December, our
calendar year should be every bit as strong as our fiscal year
number was.”  Atwood spoke as lawmakers plan to return next month to
Springfield, the capital, to consider restructuring underfunded
pensions that have led to repeated credit downgrades for the
lowest-rated U.S. state. Legislators have failed to enact a fix
at least five times in the past 15 months.  The Illinois State Board of Investment is the fiduciary for
$13.9 billion in pension assets and $3.6 billion in defined
contribution assets. They have 30 percent of their assets in
domestic equity, 10 percent in hedged equity, 20 percent in
international equity and 5 percent in private equity, Atwood
said.  Making Money  “Over the long term, equities are the only place to be,
whether it’s securities or private equity or equity real
estate,” Atwood said. “You have to be the owner of assets to
create wealth.”  Illinois’s five pension systems had 43 percent of assets
needed to cover obligations in fiscal 2011, the lowest ratio
among states, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Democratic
Governor  Pat Quinn , 64, has said devising a solution “has
confounded legislatures and governors for 70 years.”  Atwood said he is “cautiously optimistic, reasonably
optimistic that by the end of the year or shortly after there’ll
be a piece of legislation the governor can sign.”  States nationwide have lost ground for five straight years
in socking away assets to pay retired workers,  data compiled by
Bloomberg show . The nationwide median funding ratio of 69
percent is down from almost 83 percent in 2007, according to the
 data .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Winkler  in Chicago at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  