-- IMF Sees Aussie 10% Overvalued as RBA Cash Rate Appropriate
-- B y   M a l c o l m   S c o t t
-- 2013-11-20T22:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/imf-sees-aussie-10-overvalued-as-rba-policy-setting-appropriate.html
Australia’s central bank should
maintain easy  policy settings  as a mining-investment slowdown
and a local currency about 10 percent overvalued drag on
economic growth, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “With growth currently on the soft side, the real  exchange
rate  still overvalued and weighing on the non-mining sector, and
inflation within the target range, monetary policy should remain
accommodative,” the IMF said in a preliminary statement after
reviewing the nation’s economy.  While the  Reserve Bank  of Australia “has done a lot” with
225 basis points of rate cuts since late 2011, it can’t engineer
a depreciation of the currency, Brian Aitken, IMF mission chief,
 Asia  and the Pacific Department, said in response to questions
in Sydney yesterday. With the benchmark interest rate at a
record-low 2.5 percent, the RBA still has room to respond if the
growth outlook worsens, he said.  Australian policy makers are balancing a high currency,
which is weighing on industries such as manufacturing, against
rising home prices. Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board said
there was “mounting evidence” interest-rate cuts were working,
even as it retained the option of loosening policy to support
growth in an economy battling an “uncomfortably high”
currency, minutes of this month’s meeting released Nov. 19
showed.  Aussie Strength  Australia’s currency climbed almost 50 percent in the four
years ended Dec. 31 as the nation escaped the 2009 global
recession and a China-led commodities-investment boom spurred
growth. That squeezed manufacturers and tourism operators in
Australia’s southeast, spurring job losses at companies
including Ford Motor Co., which said in May it would end
production in the country after nine decades.  The Australian dollar traded at 93.31 U.S. cents at 9:42
a.m. in Sydney. It’s more than 20 percent higher than its 20-year average even after dropping 10 percent this year.  The Aussie “still looks overvalued by around 10 percent,”
the IMF said in the statement, which was issued at the
conclusion of an Article IV consultation with government
agencies, the central bank and other regulators, business
leaders and trade unions.  The “key external factor” that may help the Australian
dollar weaken would be a Federal Reserve decision to begin
tapering its bond purchase program, Aitken said.  Fed Factor  Speculation Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  would slow bond
purchases helped push Treasury yields higher and saw Australia’s
dollar weaken in the four months through August. The Fed’s
decision in September to refrain from slowing its buying
surprised investors who had forecast the first tapering of the
program, spurring a rally in the Aussie.  Fed officials said they might reduce their $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases “in coming months” as the economy
improves, minutes of their last meeting released in  Washington 
yesterday showed.  Australia’s growth will remain “below trend” at 2.5
percent this year and rise to its trend rate of around 3 percent
by 2016, the IMF said.  “Cuts to  interest rates  since the end of 2011 have shown
signs of generating some revival in interest-sensitive spending
and could support housing investment going forward,” the IMF
said in the statement. “But the soft labor market, excess
capacity in the non-mining sector holding back investment plans,
and the strong Australian dollar” will be headwinds.  Higher Unemployment  The Aussie dollar is about 6 percent overvalued at present,
based on models the RBA is likely to employ, UBS AG estimated in
a report last week. The central bank this month forecast below-trend growth and rising unemployment in 2014, with prices held
in check as wage growth remains subdued.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
this week projected  Australia ’s economy will expand 2.5 percent
in 2013 and 2.6 percent next year. The body cut its global
growth forecasts for this year and next as emerging-market
economies including India and  Brazil  cool.  The RBA’s rate setting is “appropriately accommodative at
the moment given the headwinds,” Aitken said. “It has some
room if there is a large change to the outlook, the 250 basis
points cushion, but the scope for maneuver is fairly limited and
we’ll see to what extent the 225 basis points of cuts that are
already in the system work through.”  Intervention to weaken the Aussie is unlikely, Aitken said.  “The decision to intervene would basically be a decision
to go against what has been a fairly stable and effective
framework,” he said. “There’s also the question about how
effective that would be given that the Australian dollar is a
very highly traded global currency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malcolm Scott in Sydney at 
 mscott23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  