-- India Rupee Fluctuates as Importer Dollar Demand Offsets Inflows
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-11-20T04:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/india-rupee-fluctuates-as-importer-dollar-demand-offsets-inflows.html
India ’s rupee swung between gains
and losses amid speculation fund inflows into local stocks were
countered by oil importers’ dollar purchases.  Foreigners will probably add to this month’s net purchases
of $750 million of Indian shares, according to FirstRand Ltd.,
after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the
benchmark U.S. interest rate will probably stay near zero long
after the central bank’s bond-buying ends. Indian refiners are
meeting most of their dollar needs in the local foreign-exchange
market as the Reserve Bank of India tapers direct currency
supplies to them, Governor Raghuram Rajan said Nov. 13.  The rupee slipped 0.1 percent to 62.43 per dollar as of
9:44 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. It swung between gains and losses of 0.2
percent today. The currency climbed as much as 0.9 percent
yesterday to a two-week high of 61.8700 before ending just 0.1
percent stronger.  “Inflows will probably continue,” said  Paresh Nayar , head
of currency and money markets at FirstRand in Mumbai. “However,
recent price moves show that there will be good demand for the
dollar around the 62 level,” and that will limit gains in the
Indian currency, he said.  One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a gauge of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, fell
15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 11.54 percent.  “The target for the federal funds rate is likely to remain
near zero for a considerable time after the asset purchases end,
perhaps well after” the jobless rate falls below the Fed’s 6.5
percent threshold, Bernanke said yesterday in a speech to
economists in  Washington . He said a “preponderance of data”
would be needed to begin removing accommodation.  Three-month offshore non-deliverable rupee forwards fell
0.3 percent to 64.12 per dollar. Forwards are agreements to buy
or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable
contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  