-- Indonesia Halts Intelligence Exchange With Australia
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-11-21T04:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/indonesia-halts-intelligence-exchange-with-australia-on-spy-spat.html
Indonesia  called a halt to
cooperation with Australia on asylum seekers and intelligence
sharing as the biggest dispute between the two countries in 14
years deepened over claims the phones of leaders in Jakarta were
tapped.  Coordinated military operations between the neighbors and
key trading partners will also stop, Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said. As the diplomatic spat escalated, a
person claiming to be from the Anonymous Indonesia hacker group
today said it carried out a cyber attack on Australia’s central
bank, while police warned of possible protests outside the
nation’s embassy in Jakarta.  “It’s impossible for us to continue all that if we are not
sure there is no tapping on the Indonesian military,” Yudhoyono
told reporters in Jakarta yesterday as he announced a halt to
cooperation on several fronts with  Australia .  Prime Minister Tony Abbott has ruled out an apology over
the tapping claims, which potentially complicate his bid for a
free-trade agreement with Indonesia, with whom two-way trade
reached A$14.6 billion ($13.6 billion) last year. Abbott, who
told voters before the Sept. 7 election he’d focus diplomatic
efforts on “Jakarta, not Geneva,” is seeking Yudhoyono’s help
to prevent asylum seekers reaching Australia by boat.  “Abbott is facing a crisis during his honeymoon period,”
said Norman Abjorensen, a political analyst at the Australian
National University. “He’s gone to great lengths to portray his
nation’s relationship with Indonesia as the most important, and
now by refusing to apologize he seems to be creating long-lasting damage to it. That’s sending mixed messages to both
Jakarta and the electorate.”  ‘Sincere Regret’  In remarks today to parliament in Canberra, Abbott said he
had received a letter from Yudhoyono and he would reply
“swiftly, fully and courteously.” He said he would do
everything he “reasonably” could to strengthen ties between
the nations.  Jakarta police advised Australia’s Department of Foreign
Affairs and Trade of protests planned outside the Australian
embassy today. Australians should monitor local media, avoid
protests and remain vigilant, the department said on its
international  travel advice website .  The Reserve Bank of Australia said its website has been the
subject of a denial of service attack since late on Nov. 19. The
Australian Federal Police also said its website has been hacked.  “There’s been no outage to the bank’s website,” the
central bank said. “Some users may have been experiencing some
delays.”  Not Enemies  Anonymous Indonesia said earlier this month on its Twitter
page that the hacker group infiltrated more than 100 Australian
sites in response to reports of spying by Australia. A person
claiming to be a member of the group today posted links to the
affected RBA and AFP websites and added: “I’m Ready For This
War!”  Yudhoyono on Nov. 18 recalled his envoy to Jakarta for
talks, and said yesterday any tapping was a breach of Indonesian
law and hard to understand. “Now is not the Cold War era,” he
said. “Australia and Indonesia are not against each other, let
alone in animosity. Why must there be tapping on a partner, a
friend, and not an enemy?”  Indonesia’s ambassador to Australia, Nadjib Riphat Kesoema,
expects to remain in Jakarta if there’s no response from
Australia, he told reporters yesterday.  Twitter Posts  Australia has pledged to not hack the phones of senior
officials, Marciano Norman, head of Indonesia’s National
Intelligence Agency, told reporters in Jakarta yesterday. “I
was told by the Australian intelligence side that now, as well
as in the future, there won’t be any” tapping.  Tensions may be further strained after Twitter posts late
yesterday attributed to Mark Textor, the managing director of a
 consultancy  that provides strategic and polling advice to
Abbott’s Liberal Party, disparaged Yudhoyono and Indonesian
Foreign Minister Marty Natalegawa, according to the Australian
Broadcasting Corp. The posts are no longer available on his
Twitter feed, where Textor has issued an apology.  Ties between the two nations soured during President
Sukarno’s rule in the 1960s, and when Australian journalists
were killed in the 1970s in what is now East Timor. Indonesia
reacted angrily in 1999 when Australia led international
military support to restore order in East Timor after it voted
to become independent from Indonesia. Relations improved under
Yudhoyono, who can’t stand again in elections due next year.  ‘Natural Outrage’  The ABC said Nov. 18 that the mobile phone activity of
Yudhoyono was tracked for 15 days in August 2009, citing
documents leaked by U.S. whistle blower Edward Snowden. The
phones of his wife and senior advisers were also monitored, the
ABC said.  “There is a natural sense of outrage on the Indonesian
side,” said Keith Loveard, head of risk analysis at Jakarta-based Concord Consulting. “The revelation that even the First
Lady’s phone had been monitored was excessive I think by
anyone’s standards,” he said by e-mail yesterday.  Abbott sought during the election campaign to woo voters
concerned that asylum seekers were living off welfare payments
and taking employment opportunities. While he made a visit to
Jakarta in his first international engagement as leader, his
meetings with Yudhoyono failed to secure detailed agreements on
how to curb the smuggling of people from war-torn nations such
as  Afghanistan .  2007, 2009  Tapping occurred in 2007 and 2009 based on information
Indonesia had received, Norman said. “There were indeed data
showing violation during that time period,” he said.  The Sydney Morning Herald reported Oct. 31 that Australian
embassies are helping intercept phone calls and data across Asia
as part of a U.S.-led global spying network, citing information
from Snowden and a former Australian intelligence officer.  “It would be silly to sacrifice elements of the
relationship over something that, at least in outline, everyone
knew was going on from many years back,” Concord’s Loveard
said, and retaliation could be self-defeating in areas like live
cattle imports by Indonesia.  “Petty reactions, such as penalizing Australian business
in some way, would damage a relationship that has taken years to
develop to its current stage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  