-- Investors Ask AT&T, Verizon to Show Government Data Requests
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-11-20T21:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/investors-ask-at-t-verizon-to-disclose-government-data-requests.html
New York  State Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  and Trillium Asset Management LLC filed shareholder
proposals asking  AT&T Inc. (T)  to report government requests for
customer information.  Trillium also presented a similar measure at  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  The resolutions would have the two biggest
U.S. phone carriers report what information was shared with
American or foreign governments and how often, along with what
efforts the companies made to protect the privacy of their
customers, said Michael Connor, executive director of Open MIC,
a New York-based political advocacy group.  The investors are pushing for more openness after reports
this year that major Internet companies and U.S. carriers have
cooperated with government agencies by sharing some customer
data. In June, the  Guardian newspaper  reported on a secret court
order directing New York-based Verizon to collect call data.  “Transparency allows investors to make informed decisions
about corporate behavior,” said DiNapoli, trustee of the New
York State Common Retirement Fund. “Publishing regular reports
on requests for information from governments would be an
appropriate response to shareholder and customer concerns about
trust and privacy in the digital world.”  Bob Varettoni , a Verizon spokesman, said the company has
received the proposed resolution and declined to comment on the
request.  “As standard practice we look carefully at all shareholder
proposals but at this point in the process we do not expect to
comment on them,” said  Mark Siegel , an AT&T spokesman.  AT&T normally holds its annual shareholder meeting at the
end of April, with Verizon following soon after.  More Disclosure  DiNapoli, a 59-year-old Democrat, has used his position as
the sole trustee of the $160.7 billion pension fund to
successfully push shareholder resolutions requiring companies
such as Southwest Airlines Co. and Harley-Davidson Inc. to
disclose their political giving. He began applying the pressure
after the U.S. Supreme Court’s 2010 Citizens United ruling
allowed unlimited spending by corporations and unions in
political activities.  As of Nov. 8, the New York pension fund owned 15.7 million
shares of AT&T valued at about $552.5 million, Eric Sumberg, a
DiNapoli spokesman, said by e-mail. Trillium has less than
50,000 shares each of AT&T and Verizon, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Trillium, a Boston-based investment-management firm, is
leading the Verizon proposal. Other investment firms and
organizations –- including the  American Civil Liberties Union  of
Northern California –- co-filed at one or both of the companies,
according to Connor.  “Other technology companies have been providing these
reports; it would be good if AT&T and Verizon would also,” said
Jonas Kron, Trillium’s director of shareholder advocacy. “It’s
a way to rebuild trust, especially internationally, where both
companies are looking for growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  