-- Investors Take Stakes in Up to 1,100 Soccer Players, KPMG Says
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-11-20T15:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/investors-take-stakes-in-up-to-1-100-soccer-players-kpmg-says.html
Investors have acquired stakes in
the transfer rights of as many as 1,100 soccer players in  Europe 
from cash-strapped teams, according to a report by auditor KPMG
Europe LLP’s Spanish unit.  Champions League squads Atletico Madrid and Porto are among
those that have turned to selling stakes in team members to
raise finance as an alternative to bank loans. Investors get a
return based on the fee the player is eventually traded for.  UEFA ,  European soccer’s ruling body ,  wants to ban the
practice, saying financial interests could damage the sport’s
integrity. KPMG Asesores SL compiled the study for the European
Club Association, whose chairman is Champions League title-holder Bayern Munich CEO Karl-Heinz Rummenigge.  The combined stakes are worth as much as 1.1 billion euros
($1.5 billion), or 5.7 percent of the regional transfer market’s
value, according to  KPMG .  Bloomberg News  has seen a copy of the
report, which hasn’t been made public.  The report said that soccer should investigate relations
between  player agents  and investors, and start an international
database of the investments.  The practice is widespread in 10 eastern European countries
-- where investors hold about 40 percent of the market value of
league players -- and is increasing in  Spain ,  Portugal  and the
Netherlands, the report says.  There is a “high concentration” of funds in Serbian
soccer controlled by foreign groups from Spain, England and
Israel, according to KPMG, which didn’t name any of the teams or
funds involved. Among the best-known teams in  Serbia  are Red
Star and Partizan Belgrade.  More Than Third  Malta-based Doyen Sports Investments Ltd.  acquired stakes
in players such as Porto’s Steven Defour and Eliaquim Mangala.
It has invested 80 million euros the last three years, the unit
CEO Nelio Lucas said on Sept. 20.  Investors hold as much as 36 percent of the market value of
league players in Portugal and up to 8 percent in Spain,
according to KPMG. They own about 3 percent of the market in the
Dutch league, KPMG added.  The English Premier League banned such investments, known
as third-party ownership, after it found that West Ham had ceded
total control over Argentine striker  Carlos Tevez  to investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  