-- Iran Nuclear Envoys Look to Deal as Netanyahu Goes to Moscow
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-11-20T16:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/iran-nuclear-envoys-look-to-deal-as-netanyahu-goes-to-moscow.html
Negotiators gathering in Geneva to
end the decade-long deadlock over  Iran ’s nuclear work are
looking to seal an accord in the face of Israeli objections.  Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif and European
Union foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton met privately and a
plenary session will be held at 6:00 p.m. local time today in
the Swiss city, according to an EU statement. Negotiations
between Iran and senior diplomats from  China ,  France ,  Germany ,
 Russia , the U.K. and the U.S. are expected to run at least
through Nov. 22, organizers said.  “The last round of nuclear talks with Iran showed that a
diplomatic resolution is possible,” German Foreign Minister
Guido Westerwelle said in a statement from Berlin. “We can
succeed at the Geneva talks beginning today to take important
first steps.”  The accord under consideration would deliver Iran limited
sanctions relief in exchange for a verified halt to some
elements of its nuclear work. The initial deal would last six
months, during which time negotiations would continue over a
comprehensive accord intended to ensure that Iran won’t make a
nuclear weapon. The Islamic republic denies it wants one.  Israel ’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, a critic of the
proposed agreement, flew to Moscow today for a meeting with
Russian President Vladimir Putin. The Jewish state has said it
may consider a preemptive strike on Iran’s nuclear facilities if
diplomacy fails to ensure that it can’t make nuclear weapons.  Normal Relations  In a speech to Basij militia today in Tehran, Iran’s
Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei repeated criticism of
Israel while also underlining that his country wants normal
relationships with other countries.  “We want to have friendly relations with all nations, even
the U.S.,” Khamenei said live on state-run TV. “We have no
enmity with any country. Our enmity is with the system of
arrogance.”  Public comments from Iranian and Western officials suggest
a deal is close. U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron and new
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani agreed yesterday in a phone
call -- the first such direct U.K.-Iranian contact in more than
a decade -- to “seize the opportunity” in Geneva, according to
a statement from Cameron’s office.  “There is every possibility for success of these talks,”
Zarif said yesterday in  Rome  at a press conference after meeting
Italian Foreign Minister Emma Bonino. “I go to Geneva with the
determination to come out with an agreement at the end of this
round. I hope we will.”  Could be the Week  President  Barack Obama  yesterday avoided making a
prediction. “I don’t know if we’ll be able to close a deal this
week or next week,” he said in remarks to a Wall Street Journal
conference in  Washington . “We have been very firm with the
Iranians” about what is expected.  Obama -- criticized by some U.S. lawmakers and Israel for
an impending deal they say isn’t tough enough -- yesterday met
with key Senate and House members who pledged not to pursue
additional sanctions against Iran until after Nov. 28.  “This could be the week the deal is done that sets Iran’s
relations with the Western world off in a new positive
direction,” Mark Fitzpatrick, director of non-proliferation at
the London-based International Institute for Strategic Studies
and a former U.S. State Department diplomat, said in a phone
interview.  UN monitors verified last week that Iran had halted
expansion of its most sensitive work after Rouhani assumed
office in August. Iran’s declared nuclear facilities are
monitored by the International Atomic Energy Agency to ensure
that materials aren’t diverted to weapons use.  Wider Access  While French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius helped kill an
accord at the last meeting by insisting that reactor
construction pause during negotiations, IAEA monitors reported
Nov. 14 that Iran had already stopped building key elements at
the facility.  “No major components, such as the control-room equipment,
the refueling machine and reactor cooling pumps had been
installed,” the IAEA said. Iran and the IAEA signed their first
deal in six years on Nov. 11 that gives investigators wider
access to Iranian facilities.  Iran has also offered to compromise over its so-called
“right of enrichment.” There’s “no necessity for its
recognition as a right” because it’s self-evident in the Non-Proliferation Treaty, Zarif said on Nov. 17, according to Iran’s
state-owned Iranian Students’ News Agency. Article 4 of the
treaty says countries have an “inalienable right” to nuclear
technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Geneva at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  