-- Iraq Kurds to Pump Oil to Turkey in Truce With Baghdad
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u   a n d   O n u r   A n t
-- 2013-11-20T08:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/iraq-kurds-to-pump-oil-to-turkey-in-truce-with-baghdad.html
Iraq ’s Kurds plan to start pumping
oil to  Turkey  next month via a pipeline controlled by the
central government in Baghdad, signaling an easing of their
dispute over resources, according to two people familiar with
the plan.  The new line will take Kurdish oil into the existing pipe
that runs from Kirkuk in Iraq to Turkey’s Mediterranean port of
Ceyhan, initially carrying 150,000 barrels a day starting in
December, according to the Turkish energy industry officials who
asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public.
An Iraqi energy industry manager, who requested anonymity for
the same reason, said the state oil company has accounted for
the extra oil in 2014 plans.  Ashti Hawrami, the Kurdish Regional Government’s natural
resources minister, said at a press conference last month that
the 40-kilometer pipeline will have a capacity of 300,000
barrels a day. Mehmet Sepil, president of London-listed Genel
Energy, said at the same conference that the pipeline from Dohuk
to Fishkabur on the Turkish border will carry 200,000 barrels a
day from its Tawke and Taq Taq fields.  The Iraqi official said the Kurdish oil will be metered
when it feeds into the main pipeline, at Fishkabur near the
Turkish border, and again when it arrives at Ceyhan.  The agreement signals a truce on the issue between the
Iraqi Kurds, who say they should have control over oil and gas
resources in the north, and the  Baghdad  government, which argues
that all energy transactions need central approval.  More Willing  Iraq’s government under Nouri al-Maliki, which has sought
to block energy agreements between Turkey and the Iraqi Kurds,
is struggling to control a wave of deadly sectarian attacks.  “Maliki is now more willing to taking to consideration the
interests of Turkey and the Kurdistan regional government
because he needs stability,” Stephen Larrabee of Rand Corp., a
policy institute based in  Santa Monica ,  California , said in an
interview in Ankara.  Iraq’s Kurds want to raise oil production and expand beyond
the capacity of current pipelines, and say they’ll build a link
to bypass the Baghdad-run network.  Iraqi Kurdistan’s output may increase to 1 million barrels
a day by the end of 2015 and 2 million barrels by 2020, Hawrami
said on Oct. 31. Kurdistan currently exports 30,000 to 50,000
barrels a day in trucks to Turkey.  “As Iraq normalizes, Turkey will meet its energy needs
through oil and natural gas deals with Iraq,” Turkish Energy
Minister  Taner Yildiz  told NTV television in an interview in
Paris today. “Contracts with northern Iraq and agreements with
the central government are part of this chain and it will done
transparently.”  Yildiz said a new  oil terminal  with similar capacity to
Ceyhan may be built on the Mediterranean coast.  “The entry of northern Iraqi oil would not affect the
price of oil in world markets but it is an important step for
normalization of whole of Iraq and for Turkey’s supply
security,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net ;
Onur Ant in Ankara at 
 oant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  