-- Lithuania Would Give Ex-Snoras Owner a Fair Trial, Lawyer Says
-- B y   S u z i   R i n g
-- 2013-11-20T15:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/lithuania-would-give-ex-snoras-owner-a-fair-trial-lawyer-says.html
Former Bankas Snoras AB owners
 Vladimir Antonov  and Raimondas Baranauskas, who are fighting
extradition to Lithuania to face fraud charges, aren’t part of a
“grand conspiracy” that would deny them a fair trial, a lawyer
for the country told a London court.  “A politically tainted prosecution recedes into the
distance of unlikelihood,”  John Hardy , a London-based lawyer
for the Lithuanian government, said today in a hearing for the
extradition.  Antonov, a Russian, and LithuanianBaranauskas were
detained in London in 2011 after a European arrest warrant was
issued on claims the pair forged documents and fixed accounts to
siphon at least 1.7 billion litai ($667 million) from the
country’s third-biggest bank by deposits, causing its collapse.  Hardy said the case was simple and had been complicated by
the defendants’ attempt to prove unfounded political prejudice.  “The Snoras Bank scenario could be a model for a GCSE
examination in insolvency and fraud,” Hardy said, in reference
to the exams taken by 16-year-old school students in the U.K.
“What is that money and what are those securities doing in
those accounts?”  Lithuania  froze 805 million litai of assets belonging to
the former owners of the defunct lender last November. Antonov,
who is accused of using the money to buy luxury homes, cars and
a U.K. soccer team, has argued the cases may be politically
motivated due to articles in newspapers he owned.  “It is submitted that there is a real risk that
Baranauskas’s trial, punishment and other treatment at the hands
of the Lithuanian authorities will be prejudiced on grounds of
political opinion,” lawyers for Baranauskas said in court
documents. “And by virtue of his association with Antonov, who,
as set out above, is of Russian nationality.”  A judgment is expected in the coming weeks, according to
lawyers in the case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suzi Ring in  London  at 
 sring5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  