-- Consumer Bureau Yields to Title Insurers on Mortgage Rule
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-11-20T19:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/title-insurance-calculation-dropped-from-u-s-mortgage-form-rule.html
A U.S. rule that would have wrapped
title insurance into the total costs listed on a simplified
mortgage-disclosure form was dropped by the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau after industry complaints.  The rule first proposed by the consumer bureau in July 2012
would have incorporated these costs into the calculation of the
annual percentage rate on a simplified new mortgage disclosure
form. The agency backed down after feedback suggested that the
all-in APR, is the rule is known, “might have affected the
types of loans available to consumers,” it said in an e-mailed
statement today.  The APR feeds into calculations under other regulations
that determine whether a mortgage is a higher-priced loan. If a
higher APR pushes a loan into that category, lenders could be
more vulnerable to lawsuits under a separate CFPB rule that
takes effect in January.  “We applaud the CFPB for listening to our members and
eliminating the ‘all in’ APR as it would not help consumers shop
for a mortgage and could limit their settlement choices,”
Michelle Korsmo, chief executive officer of the  American Land
Title Association , a Washington-based trade group, said in a
statement.  Willard Ogburn, executive director of the Boston-based
National Consumer Law Center, criticized the CFPB’s decision to
step back from its initial proposal.  ‘No Evidence’  “There is no evidence that better disclosure restricts
access to credit,” Ogburn said at a CFPB field hearing in
Boston where the new form requirements were introduced today.
“Instead, it creates a more transparent and well-functioning
market, which enables consumers to avoid abusive lenders.”  Fidelity National Financial Inc. (FNF)  of Jacksonville,  Florida ,
is the top U.S. title insurer, followed by  Santa Ana ,
California-based  First American Financial Corp. (FAF)  The companies
use their records to check that a seller is a property’s true
owner and that it’s free from liens.  Mark Calabria, director of financial regulation studies at
the  Cato Institute , a research group that promotes free markets,
said the change could have pressured the title industry’s
profits.  Profit Pressure  “If title insurance is part of the calculation, then
lenders can negotiate volume discounts and push down the price
that title insurers can charge,” Calabria said. “Right now,
the rules let the title insurers maintain a cartel.”  In  New York  trading today, Fidelity National shares were up
1 percent to $28.17 while First American shares were also up
about 1 percent to $25.49.  Bank of America Corp.  also concluded that the all-in
approach would “negatively affect consumers by restricting
their ability to obtain mortgage credit,” Larry Chattoo,
assistant general counsel at the company, said at the  Boston 
hearing.  The consumer bureau stepped back from the change as part of
a final regulation it issued today that combines federally
required mortgage disclosures into two simple forms,  one  that
estimates the cost of a mortgage and  another  that details costs
at closing.  The agency said it would “continue to study” the issue of
consumer understanding of APR disclosures in connection with a
required five-year review of regulations it writes. It will then
“make improvements to those disclosures as necessary.”  Dodd-Frank Mandate  Under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, the agency was required to
propose, though not complete, regulations combining and
simplifying a thicket of federal disclosures under the Truth in
Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act.  Consumer bureau Director  Richard Cordray  said the forms
will let consumers compare promised loan terms to actual costs
at settlement.  “Our form makes that comparison very obvious,” Cordray
said at the Boston hearing, which minimizes the potential for
bait-and-switch increases in rates,’’ he said at the Boston
hearing.  All lenders will be required to use the forms by Aug. 1,
2015. The agency didn’t exempt smaller lenders from the rules,
despite protests that these banks have a close relationship with
their customers.  Richard Hunt , president of the Consumer Bankers
Association, which represents large banks, praised the CFPB’s
no-exemption approach.  “There should not be different sets of standards which
could lead to confusion and uncertainty amongst consumers,” he
said in a statement. “Moving forward, we hope to see the CFPB
apply this same methodology to other areas of their
jurisdiction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  