-- Ivanhoe Cambridge Buys Chicago’s Riverside Plaza Towers
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-11-20T16:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/ivanhoe-cambridge-buys-chicago-s-riverside-plaza-towers.html
Ivanhoe Cambridge Inc. bought twin
skyscrapers in  Chicago ’s West Loop for more than $360 million,
giving the Canadian real estate investor more than 2.3 million
square feet of office properties in the market.  Ivanhoe, the Montreal-based property unit of public
pension-fund manager Caisse de Depot et Placement du  Quebec ,
purchased 10 and 120 South Riverside Plaza, a 1.4 million-square-foot (130,000-square-meter) complex. The 21-story towers
sit on the Chicago River, occupying two city blocks, the company
said today in a statement.  “Chicago is one of the key U.S. cities we’ve set our
sights on in order to build a solid national high-quality
office-building platform,” Adam Adamakakis, Ivanhoe’s executive
vice president for U.S. investments, said in the statement.  Ivanhoe is expanding in the U.S. through a partnership with
Callahan Capital Properties, an investment firm run by Tim Callahan, the former chief executive officer of office landlords
Trizec Properties Inc. and Equity Office Properties Trust. The
Chicago transaction is the fourth in the past 12 months
involving the two companies, Sebastien Theberge, a spokesman for
Ivanhoe, said in an e-mail.  Callahan will manage the Riverside Plaza properties for
Ivanhoe, Theberge said. It also is the manager for the venture’s
other buildings, which include  Manhattan ’s 1211 Avenue of the
Americas and Wells Fargo Center in  Seattle .  Callahan “skillfully negotiated the acquisition process,”
Adamakakis said in an e-mail. “On a larger scale, we believe
the extra return on investment is more than ever about best-in-class asset management, of which CCP excels at.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  