-- Japan Pension Fund Urged to Diversify as Independent Body
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a ,   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-11-21T02:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/japan-pension-fund-urged-to-take-more-risk-review-bonds.html
Japan ’s 121 trillion yen ($1.21
trillion) pension fund needs more independence from bureaucrats
and should put some of the world’s biggest retirement savings
pool into private equity and commodities, an expert panel said.  The Government Pension Investment Fund should review
domestic bond holdings and consider investing more in overseas
assets, according to a report released by the advisory group
yesterday. The fund should also look at diversifying into
private equity, commodities and real-estate investment trusts,
where returns may be higher than on local sovereign bonds, the
panel said.  “An independent government pension fund means more
assertive asset managers,” said  Mark Matthews , Singapore-based
head of Asia research for Bank Julius Baer & Co. Many countries
have quasi-independent national pension funds as “they want the
people running them to make professional investment decisions,
not political ones,” he said.  GPIF is under pressure to cover payouts as the world’s
oldest population ages, with  baby boomers  born in the wake of
World War II beginning to reach 65 and become eligible for
pensions. The fund’s allocation to domestic bonds is too high
and it should calculate  investment risk  based on inflation of 2
percent, Takatoshi Ito, the panel’s chairman, told reporters
yesterday.  Amari Reaction  GPIF should also consider investing in infrastructure, the
panel said. Ito yesterday delivered the panel’s report to
Economy Minister Akira Amari, who said he will work toward
realizing its proposals.  The yen pared earlier gains after the report, dropping by
0.29 per dollar within 15 minutes of the announcement. Japan’s
currency weakened 0.3 percent today to 100.37 per dollar as of
11:40 a.m. in Tokyo. The Topix index gained 0.9 percent.  Takahiro Mitani, GPIF’s president, has expressed doubt that
the  Bank of Japan  can achieve its 2 percent inflation goal,
saying in June that the fund plans to hold 60 percent of its
assets in local bonds until at least 2015. The nation’s
sovereign debt due in 10 years yielded 0.61 percent yesterday,
the lowest rate in the world.  Ito believes Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will succeed with
his reflation policy, according to Jonathan Allum, London-based
strategist at SMBC Nikko Capital Markets Ltd.  “Ito is clearly Abe’s man,” Allum said in an e-mail.
“The assumption is that Abenomics will succeed and that Japan
is already in a post-deflationary world, which requires a post-deflationary investment strategy from the GPIF.”  Baby Funds  The fund should study the possibility of spinning off part
of its assets into so-called baby funds, or specialized
investment pools, according to the panel’s report.  “It’s a good idea to invest a small portion in REITs and
alternative assets, but if they invest on a large scale, they’ll
end up pushing up the prices of the assets they’re looking to
buy,”  Ayako Sera , a Tokyo-based market strategist at Sumitomo
Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd., said by phone yesterday. “They are a
big whale. The market is very small, and if a big whale jumps
in, it’s going to overflow.”  The baby funds will be small and won’t disrupt the market
much, Ito told reporters yesterday. They should be set up within
a year, he said.  ‘Growing Possibility’  GPIF may prefer holding REITs through baby funds because
Japan’s market for such securities is limited in size, analyst
Tomohiro Araki at Nomura Holdings Inc. wrote in a report. Such
investments would help boost land values in Japan, Araki wrote.  The panel’s recommendations are in line with other global
pension funds that tend to add risk with alternative investments
rather than increasing equity weightings, SMBC Nikko’s Allum
said.  GPIF should consider passive investing based on the JPX-Nikkei Index 400, which starts next year and focuses on return
on equity, the panel recommended. As a safeguard against rising
prices, the fund should also look at investing in inflation-linked Japanese government debt, according to the report.  GPIF announced in June a cut to its target holding for
domestic bonds to 60 percent from 67 percent, while the
proportions of foreign and local shares were changed to 12
percent each, from 9 percent and 11 percent, respectively.  The advisory panel, which held the first of eight meetings
in July, was tasked with analyzing the management of public and
quasi-public pension funds.  Retirement Savings  While Japan’s pool of retirement savings outstrips that of
any other nation, it’s not growing fast enough. The nation’s
2010 population of 127 million was the world’s oldest and will
shrink 17 percent by 2055, the fastest decline among developed
economies, according to United Nations data.  GPIF posted its smallest gain in three quarters in the
period ended in June on record domestic-debt losses. Japanese
 government bonds  handed investors a total return of 2.5 percent
this year, according to an  index  compiled by Bloomberg. The
Topix index of stocks surged 43 percent.  “They really must increase investment returns,” said
 Gentoku Kiyokawa , Tokyo-based head of the Japanese investment
management department at BNP Paribas Investment Partners SA.  A new law should be established to give GPIF greater
independence, the panel said yesterday. The fund’s budget is
currently controlled by the Health Ministry, which also approves
investment decisions. Legislation to change that could be
written by the spring of 2015, Ito told reporters.  More Staff  Staff could be added and expenses increased without
requiring a law change, Ito said. It’s natural for pension funds
to add experts from the private sector, he said.  “It will be good if they hire people from outside,” said
Kazuyuki Terao, Tokyo-based chief investment officer of Allianz
Global Investors Japan Co. “What they do in terms of ensuring
accountability for performance is important.”  For Ito, the panel’s report is unprecedented and comes at a
turning point for the Japanese economy.  “We’ve never seen proposals like this before,” he said.
“The environment is changing now. All the panel’s experts share
an awareness that it’s dangerous to keep on shaping the fund’s
portfolio based on the risk and return assumptions that have
been used to date.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  