-- Japan Trade Deficit Widens as Fossil Fuel Imports Surge: Economy
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2013-11-20T02:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/japan-trade-gap-widens-more-than-forecast-as-fuel-imports-surge.html
Japan  posted its biggest October
trade deficit on record, as a revival in exports to the U.S. and
China was overwhelmed by the nation’s soaring costs for imported
fuel in the wake of the nuclear industry’s shutdown.  The  shortfall  of 1.09 trillion yen ($10.9 billion) extended
a record run of deficits to 16 months, and was larger than all
28 forecasts in a  Bloomberg News  survey, a finance ministry
report showed today in  Tokyo .  Imports (JNTBIMPY)  climbed 26.1 percent from
a year earlier, while  exports  gained 18.6 percent.  The yen’s slide has helped boost profit forecasts and
pushed up stock prices of exporters such as Toyota Motor Corp,
while at the same time raising the cost of imports. The deficits
are likely to continue and may drag on growth in the world’s
third-largest economy, according to economist  Norio Miyagawa .  “Exports are rebounding on a pick-up in the overseas
economy, while imports are likely to expand further before a
sales-tax increase” in April, said Miyagawa, a senior economist
at Mizuho Securities Research and Consulting Co. in Tokyo. “The
deficits aren’t a good sign for Japan’s economy as they mean
wealth is flowing out of Japan.”  The yen was 0.2 percent stronger at 99.96 per dollar at
11:17 a.m. in Tokyo, while the Topix stock index was down 0.3
percent.  Fuel Imports  Fossil fuels contributed to nearly half of the gain in
imports, with the value of petroleum shipments to Japan soaring
67.8 percent from the previous year, and liquefied natural gas
rising 39.4 percent. The large gain in October this year may
partly reflect depressed imports a year earlier following a tax
change for some fossil-fuel imports.  Exports to China increased 21.3 percent from a year ago
when the two nations were embroiled in a row over islands in the
 East China Sea . Shipments to the U.S. rose 26.4 percent, while
those to the European Union climbed 27 percent.  The record stretch of 16 monthly deficits is the longest in
comparable data back to 1979.  Gross domestic product  grew at an annualized 1.9 percent in
the three months through September after a 3.8 percent expansion
the previous quarter. The economy will contract in the second
quarter of next year following the April increase in the
consumption levy.  Bernanke Comments  The U.S., Japan’s largest export destination, is displaying
signs of picking up.  The labor market in the U.S. has shown “meaningful
improvement” since the start of the  Federal Reserve ’s bond-buying program and the benchmark  interest rate  will probably
stay low long after the purchases end, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday in a speech in Washington.  Data today are forecast to show U.S.  retail sales  rose in
October after a decline in the previous month, while U.S.
consumer prices remained unchanged from a month earlier after a
gain in prior period, according to surveys of economists by
Bloomberg News.  Elsewhere, Australia’s central bank would prefer the local
dollar to be lower, Assistant Governor  Guy Debelle  said today at
a forum in Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  