-- Japan Vote Unconstitutional as Abe’s Win Valid: Kyodo
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-11-20T09:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/japan-supreme-court-set-to-rule-on-constitutionality-of-abe-vote.html
Japan ’s  Supreme Court  ruled the
election that propelled Prime Minister Shinzo Abe back to power
last year was unconstitutional due to the excessive weight of
votes cast in rural areas, news agency Kyodo reported.  At the same time, the court didn’t overturn Abe’s December
2012 election victory.  “We have been carrying out these lawsuits on the election
for a long time and we didn’t give up because we felt we were
moving forward a little at a time,” said Kuniaki Yamaguchi, a
lawyer and one of the plaintiffs in the case. “Looking at this
ruling, it seems that we’ve gone into reverse.”  Plaintiffs have been trying to force a revamp of an
electoral system under which lawmakers in rural districts often
represent fewer people than in urban regions, giving more weight
to rural areas that are a key constituency of Abe’s  Liberal
Democratic Party . Today’s decision came after 15 lower courts
ruled voting in some constituencies was unconstitutional,
including in two where courts declared the results invalid.  “We will take this verdict very seriously,” Deputy Chief
Cabinet Secretary Hiroshige Seko told reporter in  Tokyo  after
the ruling.  The ruling comes as Abe seeks to keep his focus on the
third phase of his economic reforms and efforts to limit the
potential effect on the economy of a sales tax increase next
year.  “He should be taking the lead in resolving the
situation,” said  Koichi Nakano , a professor of political
science at  Sophia University  in Tokyo. “If he’s seen as
uninterested or not sufficiently humbled by the verdict,”
voters could start to see him as out of touch, he added.  Different Priorities  Rural and urban voters may have different policy
priorities, and Abe has touted his economic reform as the most
important part of his strategy to revive growth, after the first
two steps of monetary and fiscal stimulus. Japan’s gross
domestic product grew at an annualized 1.9 percent pace in the
three months ended Sept. 30, slowing for the second straight
quarter.  Legal challenges to the voting system have been going on
for years and have been filed after elections won by both the
LDP and the  Democratic Party . Parliament passed a bill in July
to cut the number of seats in rural prefectures by five to even
out discrepancies in the value of each vote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  