-- Jefferson County JPMorgan Deal Called Safer Than Suing
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-11-21T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/jefferson-county-seeks-approval-to-end-2-year-bankruptcy.html
Jefferson County,  Alabama ’s,
bankruptcy deal with JPMorgan Chase & Co. and other creditors
would lock in more than $1.4 billion in concessions without the
risk of suing the bank, a consultant said in court.  Eric Rothstein, a county utility rate consultant, said
yesterday that those savings are a safer proposition than the
$1.6 billion that could be won in a lawsuit that opponents of
the county’s bankruptcy exit plan want to pursue.  “That $1.4 billion writedown is a certainty,” Rothstein
said in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Birmingham, the county seat.
“The $1.6 billion number is speculative, and I believe must be
discounted.”  Rothstein was testifying at the start of a hearing on
whether to approve Jefferson County’s bankruptcy-exit plan,
which is built on concessions from JPMorgan and other creditors.  The proceeding is set to continue today before U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Thomas Bennett, who will decide whether to
approve the plan or side with two groups of lawyers who want to
sue the bank and others for their role in issuing more than 
$3 billion in debt that was tainted by a bribery scandal. His 
decision could come as soon as today.  After battling in court for about 20 months, creditors owed
$2.7 billion, including New York-based  JPMorgan (JPM) , settled with
the county in June by agreeing to accept less. A rise in
 interest rates  forced more concessions, which were announced
last month. The plan also imposes several years’ worth of rate
increases on sewer users.  New Financing  County officials want Bennett to approve their plan by
tomorrow so they can close on $1.84 billion in new financing on
Dec. 3.  “Let’s put the last nail in the coffin and bury it,”
County Commissioner Jimmie Stephens said yesterday at a county
commission meeting. “Let’s restore accountability.”  The $4.2 billion bankruptcy, filed Nov. 11, 2011, was the
largest by a U.S. city or county until it was overtaken in July
by  Detroit ’s $18 billion case.  This week’s hearing is a chance for the last plan opponents
to persuade Bennett to reject it.  The final major opposition comes from two sets of lawyers
fighting to save the suits they filed on behalf of plaintiffs
including sewer ratepayers. They asked Bennett to reject the
plan because the rate increases are too high for residents to
afford. Should Bennett reject the plan, the lawsuits, which are
now on hold, could resume.  Rejecting the plan would blow up the settlement because the
county agreed to halt the lawsuits in return for a reduction in
principal on the $3 billion in sewer debt. Under the settlement,
the sewer debt will drop to $1.98 billion with plan approval.  Can’t Afford  Attorney Calvin B. Grigsby said the plan imposes the burden
on Jefferson County’s poorest residents, who may not be able to
meet the higher rates needed to pay off the debt. The economic
information the county used to justify the plan of adjustment is
flawed because it ignores fact that the “predominant users are
poor and black,” Grigsby told Bennett today.  Bennett allowed five members of the public to speak at the
hearing. Four, including two elected officials, opposed the
plan, saying the rate increases would harm the area’s poorest
residents.  Bennett said he planned to give an oral ruling about the
bankruptcy-exit plan from the bench followed by a written order.  The county sold all of the new warrants needed to raise
$1.84 billion to refinance about $3 billion in sewer debt, the
county’s lead bankruptcy lawyer, Kenneth Klee of Klee Tuchin
Bogdanoff & Stern LLP in  Los Angeles , said in court today. The
plan calls for selling $500 million in senior bonds and $1.2
billion in subordinated debt.  ‘Lower Rate’  “When the credit rating of Jefferson County improves, the
county will be able to go back into the market and refinance and
get a lower rate,” he said.  The case can be traced to an aging sewage system that
federal regulators ordered fixed in the 1990s. To pay for the
repairs, Jefferson County began borrowing money and refinancing
old debt, issuing more than $3 billion in warrants and  interest-rate swaps  by 2003.  Local elected officials accepted bribes from construction
contractors and financial advisers seeking business with the
county. By 2010, 21 people, including four county commissioners,
had been convicted or pleaded guilty to corruption-related
charges, according to Peggy Sanford, a spokeswoman for the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in Birmingham.  JPMorgan Settlement  In 2009, JPMorgan signed a $722 million  settlement  with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for its role in helping
arrange the sewer debt.  As part of the June deal, JPMorgan agreed to forgive about
$842 million of the $1.22 billion the county owes it. After
interest rates rose, JPMorgan agreed to forgive about $100
million more in debt and to provide the county with a letter of
credit for about $180 million.  The 40-year letter of credit is “unprecedented in the
history of finance as I know it,” Klee said today. It will set
up a debt-service reserve required for the new sewer warrants
and save the county money, he said.  Other creditors, including bond insurers and a group of
 hedge funds , also agreed to take less than they were owed.  The plan calls for the bankruptcy court to retain
jurisdiction for the life of the new sewer bonds the county will
issue to fund the end of the case. This would allow the bond
trustee to seek court approval to force the county to go forward
with rate increases that were agreed to as part of the
settlement with JPMorgan and other creditors.  The bond trustee could also seek court authority to require
the county to impose future increases should rates not be high
enough to cover the debt.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-bk-05736, U.S.
 Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in bankruptcy court in Birmingham, Alabama, at
   schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  