-- JPMorgan $13 Billion Mortgage Deal Seen as Lawsuit Shield
-- B y   H u g h   S o n ,   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r ,   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   L a u r i e   A s s e o
-- 2013-11-20T14:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/jpmorgan-13-billion-mortgage-deal-seen-as-lawsuit-shield.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s record $13
billion deal to end probes into mortgage-bond sales may save the
bank billions more because of what the agreement lacked: an
explicit admission of wrongdoing.  Employees of JPMorgan and two firms it acquired knew some
of the loans included in bonds didn’t meet underwriting
standards, a fact not shared with buyers of those securities,
the U.S. Justice Department said yesterday in a statement. That
doesn’t mean the company misled investors, said Chief Financial
Officer Marianne Lake, disputing how some state and federal
officials characterized the deal.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank, sought to end one of the
largest legal uncertainties it faced without providing fodder to
private litigants. The firm is still the subject of Justice
Department probes into its energy-trading business, recruiting
practices in  Asia  and its relationship with Ponzi scheme
operator  Bernard Madoff .  “They’ve left themselves some wiggle room to say, ‘No we
didn’t violate the law’,” said  Peter Henning , a former federal
prosecutor and Securities and Exchange Commission attorney who
teaches law at  Wayne State University  in  Detroit . “There is at
least some acknowledgment that there were improprieties, but
exactly what they were remains open, and certainly they can deny
it in any specific case.”  Shares Rise  Even as the Justice Department touted the accord as “the
largest settlement with a single entity in American history,”
JPMorgan’s  shares rose  0.7 percent to $56.15 yesterday and added
18 cents today at 9:34 a.m. in New York. The stock climbed 38
percent in the past 12 months through yesterday,  outperforming 
the 81-company Standard & Poor’s Financials Index and the
broader  S&P 500 .  Legal bills fueled the bank’s first quarterly loss under
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , and he has told investors
the disputes will continue. Dimon, 57, had led the New York-based company to three years of record profit, including $21.3
billion for 2012, the most of any U.S. bank.  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, who is co-chairman of the  task force  that helped secure the deal, said
yesterday that the bank acknowledged it made “serious, material
misrepresentations to the public.” That language was mirrored
in releases from the Justice Department and the Inspector
General of the  Federal Housing Finance Agency .  No Admission  “We didn’t say that we acknowledge serious
misrepresentation of the facts,” Lake said yesterday in a
conference call with analysts. “We would characterize
potentially the statement of facts differently than others
might.”  JPMorgan acknowledged the  statement of facts  -- the
settlement’s official narrative of events leading up to the
infractions -- without admitting violations of law, Lake said.
The bank also denied any violations in an accompanying slide
show.  Vendors hired by JPMorgan to grade loans that were to be
packaged into bonds and sold to investors found that some were
unsuitable because the borrowers had high debt-to-income ratios,
and paperwork documenting income and appraisals was missing,
according to the statement of facts released by the Justice
Department.  Bank managers ordered mass waivers to include these loans
in bonds. In one case, an employee told managers that loans
shouldn’t be purchased because of their poor quality, and wrote
a letter “memorializing her concerns” after the loan pools
were bought, according to the document.  Not ‘Flattering’  “How do we not interpret accepting what’s alleged in these
statements of facts as not putting you at kind of a disadvantage
when it comes to other litigation?”  Jeffery Harte , an analyst
at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, asked Dimon and Lake yesterday
during the conference call.  “I realize it reads not entirely flattering, but that is
in part how it has been articulated,” Lake said.  Separate agreements with the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. and  National Credit Union Administration , both disclosed
yesterday, and an accord last month with the FHFA all contained
explicit denials of wrongdoing by JPMorgan.  “They are trying to throw some barriers at all the lawyers
who will be crawling out of the woodwork,” said  Nancy Bush , a
bank analyst who founded NAB Research LLC in  New Jersey . “I
don’t know how successful they’re going to be. There will be
many more attempts made.”  U.S. and state officials blamed the bank for helping to
cause the financial crisis, and said the settlement doesn’t
shield JPMorgan or its employees from charges.  Mortgage Crisis  “Without a doubt, the conduct uncovered in this
investigation helped sow the seeds of the mortgage meltdown,”
Attorney General Eric Holder said in a statement. “JPMorgan was
not the only financial institution during this period to
knowingly bundle toxic loans and sell them to unsuspecting
investors, but that is no excuse for the firm’s behavior.”  U.S. Attorney Benjamin Wagner in Sacramento,  California ,
said a criminal investigation of the bank’s conduct in the sales
of residential mortgage-backed securities began less than a year
ago, and while “active and ongoing,” isn’t far enough along to
say whether anyone will face charges.  “It’s too soon to know where that case would lead,”
Wagner said. “Decisions about where it would actually be
brought, assuming it would be made, it’s too early to say where
it will take us.”    ‘On Fire’  Dimon said in a statement that the settlement resolves a
significant part of claims tied to mortgage-backed securities
issued by JPMorgan and two firms it bought during the crisis,
Bear Stearns Cos. and Washington Mutual Inc.’s bank unit. The
sum is covered by reserves, and JPMorgan is cooperating with the
criminal case, the bank said.  Dimon said he was surprised by costs tied to the purchase
of Bear Stearns.  “It was a house on fire, it was imploding,” he said
during the conference call when asked about how he views the
2008 acquisition. “We did it because we were asked to. We never
expected this kind of stuff to happen.”  Terms call for JPMorgan to pay $9 billion for federal and
state claims, with $2 billion to the  Justice Department , $1.4
billion to the NCUA and $515.4 million to the FDIC.  The state of New York will receive $613.8 million,
California $298.9 million,  Illinois  $100 million,  Delaware  $19.7
million and  Massachusetts  $34.4 million, according to the
Justice Department.  Relief Funds  The agreement includes the previously disclosed accord to
end the FHFA’s 2011 lawsuit. JPMorgan will devote $4 billion to
consumer relief for affected homeowners, including principal
forgiveness, loan modifications and efforts to reduce blight,
according to the statement.  The bank also agreed not to pursue reimbursement from the
FDIC for bad loans issued by WaMu. The FDIC and JPMorgan have
wrangled about who should pay claims tied to faulty mortgages
issued by the failed Seattle thrift, which ranked among the
biggest providers of subprime home loans before it collapsed
during the financial crisis. The FDIC seized WaMu’s banking
operations and sold them to JPMorgan for $1.9 billion.  While the $2 billion penalty isn’t tax deductible, the
remaining $7 billion in compensatory payments are, Lake said in
the conference call.  The six biggest U.S. banks, led by JPMorgan and Charlotte,
North Carolina-based Bank of America Corp., have piled up more
than $100 billion in legal costs since the financial crisis, a
figure that exceeds all of the dividends paid to shareholders in
the past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net ;
Laurie Asseo at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net  