-- Korolec Keeps UN Climate Role in Polish Cabinet Reshuffle
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-11-20T17:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/korolec-keeps-un-climate-role-in-polish-cabinet-reshuffle.html
Polish  Environment Minister  Marcin Korolec will keep his post as head of the United Nations climate
summit in Warsaw, avoiding disruption to the negotiations, after
losing his ministerial position.  Prime Minister Donald Tusk removed Korolec as minister and
nominated him as the government climate envoy for the next year
as representatives of more than 190 countries entered their 10th
day of negotiations.  Poland  holds the rotating presidency of the
UN talks to tackle global warming until December 2014.  “Now I’ll be able to fully concentrate on the process of
climate negotiations,” Korolec told reporters today. “We look
forward to the success of the summit in Warsaw.”  Negotiators at the annual UN gathering, scheduled to end on
Nov. 22, seek to prepare the ground for a global deal in 2015 to
curb  greenhouse gases . They plan to advance work on climate aid,
overcome differences on losses and damages nations face from
rising temperatures, and agree on a timetable to present
emission goals as part of an international accord.  The government changes will undermine already slow progress
at the international talks, according to Urszula Stefanowicz, a
campaigner from the Friends of the Earth environment lobby.  “At such a crucial time this shows how little interest the
Polish government has in reaching a deal at the climate talks,”
Stefanowicz said in an e-mailed statement. “Korolec will have
no real political power.”  U.S. Envoy  Todd Stern, the U.S. special envoy on  climate change , said
he hopes the Polish government changes won’t hurt the talks.  “Minister Korolec has done an excellent job,” Stern said
today in an interview. “He is to be commended in the way he’s
managed this meeting. These meetings are always very difficult
and he’s been highly engaged all during the year.”  The removal of Korolec comes a day after a speech by Tusk
at the UN meeting in which he focused on the role of shale gas
in helping attain emissions targets. Korolec, 44, was replaced
by Maciej Grabowski, until now a deputy finance minister.  He was chosen as environment minister in 2011, when Tusk
was re-elected for a second term and announced that taxes on
hydrocarbon output would increase. Korolec, a deputy economy
minister in 2005-2011, was tasked with preparing rules guiding
explorers, and state participation in shale-gas ventures. Laws
haven’t yet been passed, while drilling has slowed and investors
such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and Talisman Energy Inc. left Poland.  The changes are effective Nov. 27, the government said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Warsaw at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  