-- Nabiullina Warns Russian Consumer Loan Surge Puts Growth at Risk
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   A r t y o m   D a n i e l y a n
-- 2013-11-20T12:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/nabiullina-warns-russian-consumer-loan-surge-puts-growth-at-risk.html
Russian lending to households is
showing signs of “overheating” as the level of borrower
indebtedness is outstripping incomes, the central bank chief
said, warning that consumer loans won’t sustain the economy.  “Signs of overheating are emerging in the sphere of
consumer lending,” Bank Rossii Chairman  Elvira Nabiullina  told
lawmakers in Moscow today. “Consumer lending may become not so
much an engine of growth as a threat to financial stability.”  Russia  is trying to curb dangers from risky lending
practices even as the government and central bank seek ways to
reduce borrowing costs to bolster the economy, which failed to
accelerate last quarter and grew 1.2 percent, less than half
last year’s  pace . OAO Master-Bank today became the biggest
lender to lose its license this year after the regulator accused
it of repeatedly breaching money-laundering laws.  The central bank backs the idea of introducing maximum caps
for retail borrowing costs to fight “usurer-like” loan rates,
Nabiullina said. Policy makers led by Nabiullina, who took over
as chairman in June, have kept  interest rates  steady since an
increase in September 2012 as the inflation rate has held above
its target range of 5 percent to 6 percent.  “The central bank’s task is to find the correct balance in
its decision between economic growth and price stability,” she
said. “ Monetary policy  won’t be so tight as to choke economic
growth, but it won’t be so relaxed as to fan inflation.”  Shrinking Share  Russia, where growth averaged 7 percent during  Vladimir Putin ’s first two terms as president in 2000-2008, will see its
share of global GDP eroded over the next two decades as the
economy expands more slowly than the world average, Economy
Minister  Alexei Ulyukayev  said Nov. 7.  Growth of 1.5 percent to 2 percent is becoming the “new
norm” for Russia, according to Nabiullina. Economic growth had
slowed every quarter since the last three months of 2011, when
GDP expanded 5.1 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Unfortunately, according to the central bank’s estimates,
this isn’t a short-term cyclical slowdown, caused by the
intensifying crisis on global markets,” she said. “The
slowdown is structural in character, linked to the exhaustion of
the potential for a recovery.”  Russia must pin its economic hopes on an increase in
investments, she said. The biggest contribution monetary policy
can make to improving the business climate is by ensuring  price
stability  and eliminating macroeconomic uncertainty, according
to Nabiullina.  “The main challenge for all of us -- and it’s a challenge
that monetary policy should respond to -- is to transition to a
new quality of economic growth,” she said. “The old model of
development, based not only on high but constantly growing
commodity prices, has clearly exhausted itself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  