-- Natural Gas Advances Most in Three Weeks on Cold Weather View
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2013-11-20T20:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/natural-gas-rebounds-from-biggest-drop-in-more-than-two-weeks.html
Natural gas futures climbed in  New
York , capping the biggest gain in three weeks, on forecasts for
below-normal temperatures that would reduce inventories of the
heating and power-plant fuel.  Gas advanced 3.3 percent, the biggest gain since Oct. 30.
MDA Weather Services predicted colder weather than usual in the
eastern half of the U.S. through Dec. 4. A government report
tomorrow may show gas stockpiles slid 38 billion cubic feet last
week, the first withdrawal of the season, according to the
median of 19 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “The market is trading off the forecasts of cold
weather,” said Tom Saal, senior vice president of energy
trading at FCStone Latin America LLC in Miami. “We’re probably
going to see a healthy withdrawal from gas storage in this
week’s report.”  Natural gas for December delivery rose 11.8 cents to $3.674
per million British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest settlement since Oct. 25. Trading volume
was 14 percent above the 100-day average at 3 p.m. Gas has
climbed 9.6 percent this year.  The discount of December to January futures narrowed 1 cent
to 3.9 cents. March gas traded 1.6 cents  above  the April
contract, compared with 0.9 cent yesterday.  December $3.60 puts were the most active options in
electronic trading. They were 5.3 cents lower at 3.1 cents per
million Btu on volume of 1,205 at 3:42 p.m. Puts accounted for
47 percent of trading volume.  New York  The low in New York on Nov. 27 may be 24 degrees Fahrenheit
(minus 4 Celsius), 14 less than average, according to
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,  Pennsylvania . The low in
 Chicago  may be 15 degrees, 14 lower than normal.  About 49 percent of U.S. households use gas for heating,
according to the Energy Information Administration, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm.  “Based on the current weather projections, heating-related
gas demand will be above normal over the forecast period and
will result in further net withdrawals from inventory,”
Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at the Energy Management
Institute in New York, wrote in a note to clients today.  The U.S. may have 1.3 percent more heating-degree days, a
measure of weather-driven energy demand, from November to March
compared with the same period last year, Commodity Weather Group
LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland , said in on Oct. 15 seasonal outlook.  Gas supplies totaled 3.834 trillion cubic feet in the week
ended Nov. 8, EIA data show. Inventories were 1.5 percent above
the five-year average and down 2 percent from a year earlier.  The five-year average stockpile drop for the week ended
Nov. 15 is 2 billion cubic feet, according to the EIA. Supplies
fell 36 billion in the same period last year.  Natural gas will trade close to $4 per thousand cubic feet
($3.89 per million Btu) for the next several years, said Bob Brackett, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York,
in a note to clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  