-- LNG Prices in Asia Advance on Shortage of Spot Cargoes, WGI Says
-- B y   C h o u   H u i   H o n g
-- 2013-11-20T02:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/lng-prices-in-asia-advance-on-shortage-of-spot-cargoes-wgi-says.html
Liquefied natural gas prices for
Northeast Asia rose this week on a shortage of spot cargoes for
winter, according to Energy Intelligence Group.  Power-station fuel for delivery over the next four to eight
weeks increased to $18.60 per million British thermal units in
the period through today, up from $18.10, the New York-based
research company said on the website of its World Gas
Intelligence publication. Southwest  Europe  prices increased to
$13.20 from $12.60.  LNG prices are forecast to rise this week, according to
four of six traders surveyed by  Bloomberg News  through Nov. 15.
Asian buyers typically purchase spot cargoes from December to
March to meet peak heating and power demand during the northern
hemisphere’s winter.  Asian companies are trying to secure additional supply as
they discuss long-term contracts for 2014, WGI said. This has
reduced the number of short-term shipments available for the
North Asian winter, according to the research company.  North Asian utilities and gas companies want as many as 10
spot cargoes for January delivery, while producers are offering
five shipments loaded from storage in Europe, WGI said.  Latin America  Latin America  has taken two-thirds of Europe’s reloaded LNG
this year, compared with one-third last year, according to the
research company.  Brazil ’s state-owned  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  imported 64 LNG
cargoes as of October this year compared with 45 shipments last
year, Angelica Laureano, the company’s executive manager, said
at an industry event in Paris yesterday.  Rio de Janeiro-based Petrobras will import as many as 15
cargoes a month in 2014, Rodrigo Vilanova, LNG trading manager,
said Sept. 25. Brazil doesn’t have long-term supply contracts,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  