-- No, Larry Summers, We Don’t Need More Bubbles
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-11-20T15:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/no-larry-summers-we-don-t-need-more-bubbles.html
Larry Summers  stirred a lot of
interest with a  talk  he gave last week at an International
Monetary Fund conference. The former Treasury secretary asked an
unsettling question: What if the U.S. needs financial bubbles to
maintain full employment?  Not for the first time, you might think, life imitates the
Onion. The blog Zero Hedge  notes  that the satirical website got
here first. “Recession-Plagued Nation Demands New Bubble to
Invest In,” it  reported  in 2008. It quoted the chief financial
officer of a “bubble-based investment firm”: What the U.S.
needed was “a concrete way to create more imaginary wealth in
the very immediate future. We are in a crisis, and that crisis
demands an unviable short-term solution.”  In saying this might actually be true, Summers was
indulging his taste for provocation and carrying lines of
thought to extremes. This tendency has attracted attention
before -- as when Summers seemed to  suggest  that pollution
should be exported to developing countries or that women’s
brains aren’t wired to do  science . It’s an appealing trait in an
intellectual, uncommon in eminent officials.  Summers’s thinking on the here and now of economic policy
isn’t the least bit radical, in fact. His ideas on the longer
term were more arresting; so was hearing them from the man who
was President Barack Obama’s  first choice  for chairman of the
Federal Reserve. Would-be Fed chairmen aren’t supposed to ask
unsettling questions about bubbles.  The Argument  Summers’s starting point was to note that, four years after
the beginnings of recovery from the crash, the economy still has
idle capacity and high unemployment. With interest rates already
at zero, the Fed has to use unconventional monetary policy --
quantitative easing -- to support demand. This hasn’t been
enough, and the result is painfully slow growth.  No quarrel so far. The problems of the  “zero lower bound” 
on interest rates are well-known. The standard remedy, which
Summers and most other mainstream economists support, is short-term fiscal easing. Unfortunately, fiscal policy is being
 tightened ; households, meanwhile, are still trying to cut debt
and restore their net worth after a once-in-a-century crash in
 housing prices . In other words, there’s no great mystery about
the current shortfall of demand. Under these circumstances, a
slow recovery is exactly what you’d expect.  But Summers then asks, what if this isn’t temporary? Maybe
there’s a chronic shortfall of demand, beyond what’s due to the
crash. Maybe we face an age of secular stagnation, in which the
zero lower bound is normal. If so, short-term fiscal easing
can’t be the answer. Permanent fiscal stimulus may be necessary
to maintain demand. And if that can’t be done because politics
makes it impossible, what’s left? Bubbles. Summers doesn’t
advocate them, mind you, he just poses the question.  To deal with secular stagnation, could we need reckless
lending and borrowing, facilitated by negligent regulation?
You’ve heard of the paradox of thrift -- the idea that saving is
an individual virtue but (under certain circumstances) a
collective menace. Now we have the paradox of prudence. Those
 ninja loans  might have been a dumb thing from the point of view
of individual lenders and borrowers, but the economy as whole
needed them to keep output growing and people employed. Perhaps
the Onion had it right.  Before we award “America’s finest news source” a Nobel
Prize, let’s reflect. The slow recovery since 2009, as I say,
doesn’t support the idea of secular stagnation because you can
so easily account for it in other ways. For evidence of a
deeper-seated problem, Summers turns to the years before the
crash.  Slow Recovery  During the recovery from the recession of 2001-2002, the
U.S. had a house-price bubble (the proximate cause of the
subsequent economic collapse). But during that expansion,
Summers argues, the economy returned to full employment without
encountering inflation in wages or consumer prices. Without the
bubble, the economy would have recovered too slowly. The
implication is that bubbles are sometimes a good thing.  It’s a puzzling argument. Suppose, as Summers asks us to
imagine, that the U.S. does face a chronic shortfall of demand,
that fiscal stimulus isn’t available and that you therefore need
bubbles to get the economy back to full employment. What’s the
point, if periodic crashes such as the one the economy has just
endured are part of the outcome? Bubbles eventually burst:
That’s what they do. Wouldn’t slow growth and less-than-full
employment be better -- if that’s the alternative -- than crash-bubble-crash?  Moreover, it’s plausible that bubbles do more to destroy
jobs and output when they burst than they do to support jobs and
output as they inflate. The process isn’t likely to be
symmetrical. So this isn’t just a matter of choosing, for any
given level of employment over time, more volatility or less.
Crash-bubble-crash probably means higher average unemployment
than secular stagnation.  Bubbles have other dire consequences, too. They draw
resources into financial services and pump up pay and profits in
that sector, and the subsequent crashes don’t fully reverse
those changes. So crash-bubble-crash feeds an ongoing
misallocation of resources and worsens inequality. One could go
on. Altogether, the bubble cure -- if we’re being asked to take
it seriously as a cure -- is worse than the stagnation disease.  That’s supposing the economy even has the disease.
Summers’s proof that it does is the claim that the economy
didn’t show signs of overheating as the bubble inflated after
2003.  That claim is questionable. There was no great inflationary
surge, it’s true, but underlying inflation was creeping up and
the headline rate was running at 3 percent or more by 2005.
(Include house prices in the measure of inflation, as some argue
you should, and the numbers would have looked much worse.)
Unemployment fell to less than 5 percent -- the rate thought to
be consistent at the time with stable inflation. Above all, the
U.S. was running a huge and growing external deficit, which
carried the risk of currency devaluation and inflation in later
years.  So there were signs of overheating. Action to gently
deflate the housing bubble before it burst might have left the
economy at or close to full employment with consumer-price
inflation nearer to 2 percent than 4 percent; house prices
wouldn’t have had so far to fall; and the subsequent crash might
have looked more like an ordinary recession than the cataclysm
that transpired.  Secular stagnation isn’t impossible. It’s a disturbing
possibility, worth thinking about. But there’s no strong
evidence it’s upon us, and even if it were, bubbles wouldn’t be
the answer.  ( Clive Crook  is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Clive Crook  at  ccrook5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 