-- Novatek, Gazprom Neft to Buy Eni’s Share of Arctic Gas Unit
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-11-20T18:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/novatek-gazprom-neft-to-buy-eni-s-share-of-arctic-gas-project.html
OAO Novatek and OAO Gazprom Neft,
agreed to acquire  Eni SpA (ENI) ’s holding in a natural gas producer in
the Russian Arctic for $2.94 billion, increasing control in one
of the nation’s largest new energy projects.  Yamal Development, the venture owned by the Russian
companies, will raise its total share in the SeverEnergia gas
and condensate project to 80.4 percent from 51 percent, Novatek
said in a statement today.  “This is a major positive for both Novatek and Gazprom
Neft,”  Oleg Maximov , an oil and gas analyst at Sberbank CIB in
Moscow, said by phone.  The partners are boosting their stake after state-controlled OAO Rosneft’s $1.8 billion acquisition of 19.6
percent in SeverEnergia from Italian utility  Enel SpA (ENEL) , which
closed this month. Rosneft’s ambitions to gain share in the
domestic gas market have placed it in competition with Novatek,
now Russia’s biggest supplier of the fuel after state-run OAO
Gazprom, the owner of Gazprom Neft.  SeverEnergia will add more output than any other upstream
energy project in Russia “by far” in the next five years,
Sberbank’s Maximov, Alex Fak and Valery Nesterov said in a
September note.  Novatek shares closed up 0.9 percent at 407.95 rubles in
Moscow after dropping as much as 2.2 percent earlier in the day.
Gazprom Neft and Eni closed little changed.  Yukos Bankruptcy  Eni and Enel bought SeverEnergia during the liquidation of
bankrupt Yukos Oil Co. in 2007. Gazprom later bought a 51
percent share that it sold to Novatek and Gazprom Neft.  Eni confirmed the agreement with Yamal Development in a
statement to the Italian Stock Exchange. Italy’s biggest oil and
gas producer has an alliance with Rosneft to develop Arctic
offshore fields in  Russia  and is a partner with Gazprom on gas
export pipelines.  Gazprom Neft set final terms on $1.5 billion in bonds today
at 6 percent, according to a person familiar with the matter,
who asked not to be identified. Gazprom Neft is borrowing as it
invests in a number of projects to grow output.  SeverEnergia has an estimated 1.35 trillion cubic meters of
gas reserves and 669 million tons of liquids, according to
Novatek’s statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  