-- Nuclear Power’s $750 Million Reprieve Doesn’t End Dilemma
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-11-20T15:42:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/nuclear-power-s-750-million-reprieve-doesn-t-end-dilemma.html
Nuclear power plant operators won a
significant victory yesterday when a federal appeals court said
the U.S. should stop collecting $750 million a year for a spent-fuel repository it has never built.  Left unsettled is an issue that has vexed the industry and
political leaders for decades: where to dispose of 70,000 metric
tons of atomic waste now in temporary storage at  power plants 
across the country.  “There’s nothing in this opinion that’s going to move a
single fuel rod a single foot from where it’s sitting now,”
 Peter Bradford , a former  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  member
and professor at Vermont Law School, said in a phone interview.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Washington ruled that the
Energy Department must take steps to suspend collection of the
nuclear-waste fee from utilities because the government has
provided no alternative to a canceled project at Yucca Mountain
in  Nevada , for which the funds are collected.  Exelon Corp. (EXC) , the largest nuclear-power operator in the
U.S., would benefit most from the decision,  Hugh Wynne , a New
York-based York-based analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
wrote in a note to clients today. The company in 2012 paid $168
million into the fuel-disposal fund, lowering operating earnings
by 4.7 percent, he said.  Other Beneficiaries  Other beneficiaries of the decision include  Entergy Corp. (ETR) 
of New Orleans,  Public Service Enterprise Group Inc. (PEG)  of Newark,
 New Jersey , and  FirstEnergy Corp. (FE)  of Akron, Ohio. For companies
such as Duke Energy and Southern, which operate in states where
electricity costs are built into regulated rates, consumers may
benefit because the fee wouldn’t be included in their monthly
bills, according to Wynne.  The three-judge appeals court panel said the Energy
Department failed to come up with an adequate evaluation for the
waste fee, which is paid into a fund that has grown to more than
$29 billion since the first money was collected in 1983.  The agency’s assessment of disposal costs was “so large as
to be absolutely useless to be used as an analytic technique,”
Circuit Judge Laurence Silberman wrote in the seven-page
decision. He said the department’s presentation reminded the
court of a line from the musical “Chicago,” which says, “Give
them the old razzle dazzle.”  Niketa Kumar, an Energy Department spokeswoman, would only
say the agency was reviewing the decision.  Zero Fee  “The court’s ruling reinforces the fundamental principle
that the federal government’s obligation is to carry out the
law, whether or not the responsible agency or even the president
agrees with the underlying policy,” Ellen Ginsberg, general
counsel for the  Nuclear Energy Institute , said in a statement.
The Washington-based industry group represents reactor owners
including Exelon and  Southern Co. (SO)  of Atlanta and  Duke Energy (DUK) 
Corp. of Charlotte,  North Carolina .  The ruling directs the department to ask Congress to change
the fee to zero until it complies with the Nuclear Waste Policy
Act, which established Yucca Mountain as the nation’s nuclear-waste repository, or until lawmakers enact an alternate plan to
store spent fuel. It is now managed by reactor owners at about
75 operating and closed reactors throughout the U.S.  Government Incentive  Industry specialists said the decision may provide some
incentive for the government to address lingering waste-storage
options.  “The impetus would be on the government,” Donald Hoffman,
president of the American Nuclear Society, a professional group
whose members include engineers and scientists, said in a phone
interview. “They won’t be able to collect the fee until they
move forward with a plan to establish a high-level waste
repository.”  Congress in 1987 designated that a repository be built
under Nevada’s Yucca Mountain, about 100 miles (161 kilometers)
northwest of Las Vegas. Research and excavation on the project
has already cost taxpayers and the industry about $15 billion
according to the Government Accountability Office.  The project is opposed by Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, and in 2010 President  Barack Obama  cut
its funding. He also established a panel to consider
alternatives, which suggested developing one or more temporary
sites while the search for a permanent solution continued.  Meanwhile, the Energy Department continued to collect the
fee.  Industry Victory  Margaret Harding, an industry consultant based in
Wilmington, North Carolina, said the court’s decision is a
victory for the nuclear industry because it forces the
administration to start thinking more seriously about spent-fuel
disposal options -- including Yucca Mountain.  “The courts are drawing an ever tighter circle on the
executive branch and demanding that they face the issue” she
said in an e-mail, acknowledging that Reid will prevent a bill
funding Yucca from reaching the Senate floor.  Officials from Reid’s office didn’t respond to a request
for comment on the court’s ruling.  Even if the administration were to propose a repository,
Congress would have to agree to fund it and alter budget rules
to guarantee access to the waste fund.  “Congress has to act and overcome the conflict,” Warren
“Pete” Miller, a former Energy Department assistant secretary
for nuclear energy in the Obama administration, said in a phone
interview.  U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission on Nov. 18, at the
direction of a federal court, ordered its staff to complete a
safety review for the Yucca project.  Geologic Repository  “These last two court renderings are supportive of moving
forward on a long-term geologic repository at Yucca Mountain,”
Representative  John Shimkus , an Illinois Republican who has
championed the Yucca project, said in a phone interview.  The Energy Department has 45 days to ask for a re-hearing
on yesterday’s decision, after which time it must submit a
proposal setting the fee at zero to Congress. Lawmakers have 90
days to act on the request, according to Jay Silberg, an
attorney at  Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP , who argued the
case for the National Association of Regulatory Utility
Commissioners.  If Congress doesn’t act, Silberg said, the fee would
default to the department’s court-ordered proposal: zero.  The current waste disposal charges remain in effect until
the congressional process runs its course, he said.  In the long run the Energy Department “still needs to have
a strategy” for management of nuclear waste,  Dale Klein , a
former NRC chairman, said by phone. “There’s no Plan B.”  The case is National Association of Regulatory Utility
Commissioners v. U.S. Department of Energy, 11-1066, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  