-- Locke to Step Down as First Chinese-American Ambassador to China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-20T09:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/locke-to-step-down-as-first-chinese-american-ambassador-to-china.html
Gary Locke, the U.S. ambassador to
China who gave shelter to legal activist Chen Guangcheng, will
step down early 2014 after 2 1/2 years as the first  Chinese-American  in the job.  The former Commerce Secretary told President  Barack Obama 
this month of his decision to leave and rejoin his family in
 Seattle , according to an e-mailed statement from the U.S.
embassy in Beijing today.  Locke’s time as ambassador was marked by his criticism of
China’s human rights record, demand for better intellectual-property protection, as well as the move to protect Chen last
year. While both countries have escalated trade disputes over
rare-earth elements and solar products, leaders from the two
sides have said relations are on the right track after a meeting
between President Xi Jinping and Obama in June.  “Since becoming U.S. ambassador in China, Locke has made
earnest efforts in promoting cooperation and exchange between
China and the U.S.,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei told a
briefing in Beijing today. “On that we express our
compliments.”  In remarks to a conference on Nov. 18, Locke said the U.S.
is not trying to constrain China and wants to expand
cooperation. Since the embassy opened in 1979,  past ambassadors 
to China usually served between two-to-four years, according to
the embassy’s website.  “He is someone who is proud of his own Chinese heritage
and respects China,” said Norm Page, who had worked with Locke
at the China practice of law firm Davis Wright Tremaine LLP. “I
think that has been the single strongest element of the job he
has been able to do.”  Hospital Visit  Locke escorted Chen to a hospital after the blind activist
fled detention at his home in eastern China to seek shelter at
the embassy in Beijing. Chen was eventually allowed to leave for
the U.S. Locke had also said in a Charlie Rose interview in
January 2012 that the human rights climate in  China  has
deteriorated, sparking a rebuttal from the Chinese government.  “We have advanced American values by meeting with
religious leaders and human rights lawyers, and visiting Tibetan
and Uighur ethnic minorities,” Locke said in the statement.
“While our bilateral relationship is a complex one, I remain
confident in the ability of our leaders to manage differences
and increase cooperation in areas of mutual concern.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net  