-- Hogan Lovells to Open in South Africa: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-11-20T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/hogan-lovells-to-open-in-south-africa-business-of-law.html
Hogan Lovells  and Routledge Modise
will combine on Dec. 1, with the South African firm expected to
rebrand and reopen as Hogan Lovells in early 2014.  The Johannesburg office will have 120 lawyers, including 40
partners, and will focus on corporate, commercial, litigation,
mining and employment work, Hogan Lovells said in a statement.
Routledge Modise’s clients include South African government
departments and state-owned enterprises, domestic organizations
and subsidiaries of international corporations.  Hogan Lovells has an  Africa  practice with more than 40
lawyers globally, but no physical presence on the continent.
Most of the firm’s top 200 clients have operations there,
though, according to the statement. In the past year, Hogan
Lovells advised the African Export-Import Bank on a $2 billion
financing for Kenya Airways Ltd. aircraft purchases.  “Africa is an extremely important market for our clients
and to us as a firm,”  David Harris , global co-chief executive
officer of Hogan Lovells, said in a statement. “A significant
number of our clients have an interest or a presence on the
continent and with Africa’s substantial natural resources,
expanding economies and growing consumer base, the level of
interest will continue to increase rapidly.”  Routledge Modise’s principal practice areas include
corporate and commercial, litigation and dispute resolution,
energy, mining and employment.  Hogan Lovells has more than 2,500 lawyers operating out of
more than 40 offices in the U.S.,  Europe ,  Latin America , the
Middle East, and  Asia .  Deals  Skadden, Latham Among Firms on JLL and DSM $2.6 Billion Deal  JLL Partners Inc., a New York-based private-equity firm,
agreed to buy a majority stake in vitamin-maker  Royal DSM NV (DSM) ’s
pharmaceuticals business to create a new company in a deal
valued at $2.6 billion.  Legal advisers to JLL Partners are Skadden, Arps, Slate,
Meagher & Flom LLP, Borden Ladner Gervais LLP and Simpson
Thacher & Bartlett LLP.  Latham & Watkins LLP is lead legal adviser to DSM,
supported by  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP , Norton Rose
Fulbright Canada LLP, Allen & Overy LLP and Hinckley, Allen &
Snyder LLP.  The Skadden team advising on the merger includes partners
Robert Pincus, mergers and acquisitions; Sally Thurston, tax;
and Erica Schohn, executive compensation and benefits.  Latham & Watkins advised Royal DSM with a team led by  New
York  corporate partners Ted Sonnenschein and Adel Aslani-Far,
and Chicago corporate partner Shaun Hartley. Advice was also
provided on tax matters by New York partner David Raab; on
environmental matters by Washington partner James Barrett; on
benefits matters by New York partner Bradd Williamson; on
intellectual property matters by New York partner Steven Betensky; on finance matters by New York partner Joshua Tinkelman; and on regulatory matters by Washington partner John Manthei.  The unit will be rolled into  Patheon Inc. (PTI) , a Canada-based
specialty-pharmaceuticals manufacturer controlled by JLL, the
companies said in a joint statement yesterday. The new entity is
projected to have sales next year of about $2 billion.  DSM, based in Heerlen,  Netherlands , and JLL are betting
that combining assets will create a manufacturing and services
company with the resources to tackle projects from the research
stage to clinical trials and marketing of products. The deal may
create a more formidable competitor to Indian and Chinese
manufacturers of active pharmaceutical ingredients.  For more, click here.  Moves  Global Capital Markets Lawyers Join Reed Smith in Houston  Bryan K. Brown and Marlen Whitley joined  Reed Smith  LLP as
partners in the Houston office. Both were formerly partners at
Thompson & Knight LLP.  Brown represents clients in U.S. and global  capital markets 
transactions, including high-yield debt offerings, initial
public offerings, secondary and convertible offerings, mergers
and acquisitions, and private equity transactions, the firm
said. He also advises clients on securities compliance,
corporate governance, and reporting and disclosure obligations
under the Securities Exchange Act.  Whitley’s practice also focuses principally on corporate
and securities transactions. He advises clients on corporate
finance, acquisitions, mergers and large global infrastructure
projects, and prepares public offerings and private placements
of securities and negotiates private-equity financings.  “Bryan is a well-known, highly respected attorney whose
knowledge of and experience with global capital markets is
extensive, particularly in the key industries driving Houston’s
economic growth -- energy services, oil and gas exploration,
biotech, health care, telecom, and manufacturing,” Paul J.
Jaskot, chairman of Reed Smith’s U.S. corporate and securities
group said in a statement. “Together, he and Marlen are a
strong team with top-tier experience in complex domestic and
international business transactions.”  Reed Smith has more than 1,800 lawyers in 25 offices in the
U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East.  Greenberg Traurig Expands REIT Practice in New York  Carl Riley joined  Greenberg Traurig  LLP as a shareholder in
the real estate investment trusts and tax practices in New York.
He was previously at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP in
New York.  Riley advises clients on complex tax matters, with an
emphasis on transactions involving REITs. At Greenberg Traurig,
he will represent public REIT clients in connection with their
transactions and Securities and Exchange Commission compliance,
and handle tax aspects of securities offerings and other
transactions involving private REITs, investment funds and joint
ventures, the firm said.  “Carl is a strong asset for our active practice,” Judith D. Fryer, co-chairwoman of Greenberg Traurig’s REIT practice,
said in a statement. “Throughout his more than 20 years
providing expert counsel, he consistently demonstrates top-notch
service for clients.”  In addition to his work with REITs, Riley has counseled
clients regarding other pass-through entities and structures
including regulated investment companies and partnerships  Greenberg Traurig has about 1,750 attorneys at 36 offices
in the U.S., Latin America, Europe, the  Middle East  and Asia.  Bankruptcy News  Supreme Court Ruling Could Double Delaware Workload  Delaware federal district judges could see their workload
double if parties aren’t permitted to consent to having some
state-law disputes decided on a final basis by bankruptcy
judges, the  American Bar Association  told the U.S.  Supreme
Court .  The burden on district judges in New York would rise almost
18 percent, the ABA said in a friend-of-the-court brief on Nov.
15 in a follow-on case to 2011’s Stern v. Marshall decision.  In Stern, the high court decided 5-4 that bankruptcy
judges, who aren’t life-tenured, can’t make final rulings when a
defendant who didn’t file a claim in bankruptcy is being sued by
a bankruptcy trustee on a state-law claim.  The new case, to be argued in the Supreme Court on Jan. 14,
involves whether the right to a final ruling by a district
judge, who does has life tenure, is a constitutional right that
can be waived.  In Executive Benefits Insurance Agency v. Arkison, the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in  San Francisco  said the right can be waived.
The Supreme Court decided to hear the case because other federal
appeals courts have concluded the opposite.  The outcome may turn on the Supreme Court’s interpretation
of its own 1986 decision in Commodity Futures Trading Commission
v. Schor, in which a litigant consented to a ruling by the CFTC
and thus waived the right to sue in federal district court.  The Supreme Court’s ruling, expected next year, will
address whether rights under Stern implicate “structural”
concerns, where waiver isn’t possible, or personal
constitutional rights, where waiver is permitted.  When the Supreme Court hears the case on Jan. 14, one of
the lawyers for the trustee will be G. Eric Brunstad Jr. of
Dechert LLP in Hartford,  Connecticut , who argued on the winning
side in Stern.  Although Brunstad helped establish the constitutional
principle, he said it’s a right that can be waived.  For a survey of cases by federal appeals court on the
Stern-waiver issue, click here for the Nov. 14 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  The Supreme Court case is Executive Benefits Insurance
Agency v. Arkison, 12-01200, U.S. Supreme Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  