-- Oi Sees M&A Surge After Portugal Telecom Deal: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-11-21T18:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/oi-ceo-open-to-more-consolidation-after-portugal-telecom-merger.html
Oi SA (OIBR4) , the second-worst performing
telecommunications service provider in Latin America this year,
is open to further consolidation in Brazil as it merges with
Portugal Telecom SGPS, Chief Executive Officer  Zeinal Bava  said.  “The industry is in agreement that consolidation is
something that improves returns while at the same time allows
telcos to be able to continue to invest in beefing up the
network,” Bava, who took the top job in June, said in an
interview during an investor conference in  Barcelona  yesterday.  Last month, Oi agreed to combine with Portugal Telecom to
create a trans-Atlantic carrier with almost $17 billion in
revenue. The merger is projected to generate cost savings and
additional sales valued at 1.8 billion euros ($2.4 billion),
helping the new company challenge  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Telecom Italia
SpA (TIT)  and America Movil SAB in the world’s fifth-biggest wireless
market of some 270 million accounts.  Oi is focused on boosting cash flow, reducing debt and
completing the Portugal Telecom merger in five to six months,
Bava said. That transaction involves a share sale by Oi. In the
event of another M&A deal, he wouldn’t rule out further capital
increase in the future, depending on the size of a transaction
and the funding needs.  “I’m not concerned about that now,” Bava said, adding he
has no information of any talks among rivals in Brazil or with
regulators about potential mergers and acquisitions.  Vivo, Tim  Telefonica Brasil SA (VIVT4) , operator of the Vivo brand, is the
country’s biggest wireless operator with a market value of $21
billion.  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3) , Telecom Italia’s local unit, is
valued at almost $12 billion. As Telecom Italia’s biggest
shareholder, Madrid-based Telefonica would be forced to sell
assets in Brazil if it gains control of the Italian carrier.  In September, Telefonica agreed to increase its stake in
the  vehicle  that holds 22.4 percent of Telecom Italia, without
boosting its voting rights.  “In order to sell the asset we would need to receive the
right price,” Telecom Italia CEO Marco Patuano said of Tim
during the same conference, stressing that the asset is
“strategic.” “If I had to evaluate, it won’t only be how big
is the check. The real question is what I tell shareholders I’m
going to do with the big check. Are you ready to design a
strategy in case a big check comes in?”  ‘Three Priorities’  Oi’s preferred shares fell 0.3 percent to 3.50 reais at
4:32 p.m. in Sao Paulo, bringing their decline this year to 58
percent and valuing the company at $2.8 billion.  Brazil ’s
benchmark Ibovespa index is down 13 percent.  Tim rose 2.6 percent to 11.14 reais, after climbing as much
as 5 percent. The stock is up 36 percent this year, partly on
speculation that a new investor may acquire Telecom Italia’s 67
percent holding, or the carrier may be broken up among existing
operators.  Bava has said he would reduce Oi’s annual investments and
focus on efficiency. Oi invested 1.5 billion reais ($650
million) in the three months through September, compared with 2
billion reais in the same period of last year. Third-quarter
costs fell 6 percent to 4.96 billion reais from the previous
three-month period.  “I have three priorities,” Bava said in the interview
during the conference, organized by Morgan Stanley. “We need to
correct the cash-flow profile; we need to consolidate the
business model and boost productivity; and we need to continue
to grow in the Brazilian market, where there are huge
opportunities.”  Shrinking Market  Still, Portugal remains a tough market as the country
struggles to emerge from the economic crisis, Miguel Almeida,
the CEO of cable operator Zon Optimus SGPS, said in a separate
interview in Barcelona.  “The Portuguese telecommunications market will continue to
shrink at least for the next couple of years in terms of total
revenues in single-low digits,” Almeida said.  Zon Optimus, created from the combination of cable-TV
provider Zon Multimedia with mobile-phone business Optimus, is
seeking to win market share from Portugal Telecom and  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , Almeida said.  “The industry will stabilize as the economy recovers, but
that will still take a while,” Almeida said, declining to give
specific forecasts before the company presents a new business
plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Barcelona at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  