-- Oil Probe Disclosure Delayed as Court Mulls Speedy Appeal
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-11-20T22:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/oil-probe-disclosure-delayed-as-court-mulls-speedy-appeal.html
The court-directed disclosure of
oil-trading records and other documents from a six-year U.S.
probe will be delayed at least six days while an appeals court
considers speeding up its review of the order.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New York  today blocked the
disclosure until at least Nov. 26, when it will consider
arguments by oil traders including  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  in favor of an expedited appeal and for an order
delaying disclosure of the records until the appeals court
rules.  The oil traders are seeking to block the release of
millions of records gathered by the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission as part of a probe begun in December 2007.  The files include e-mails, depositions, trading records and
audio files. U.S. District Judge William H. Pauley on Oct. 25
held that he would allow the material to be provided to lawyers
suing over alleged oil market manipulation.  The CFTC on May 24, 2011, accused Parnon Energy Inc., which
is controlled by billionaire  John Fredriksen , of manipulating
the prices of West Texas Intermediate crude. Two days later, a
private plaintiff sued Parnon, seeking to represent a class of
everyone who traded in WTI derivative contracts from Dec. 1,
2007, until at least May 31, 2008.  Restricts  The Oct. 26 ruling restricts the most sensitive documents
from being used outside the litigation. Pauley hasn’t yet ruled
whether he’ll let the case proceed as a class action.  The case is In Re Crude Oil Commodity Futures Litigation,
11-cv-03600. The CFTC case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Parnon Energy Inc., 11-cv-3543, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The appeal is
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v. Parnon Energy Inc.,
13-04206, Second U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net  