-- Lone Star Buys Buildings From State Farm for Lease-Back
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-11-20T20:19:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/lone-star-buys-buildings-from-state-farm-for-lease-back.html
Lone Star Funds , the private-equity
firm led by Chairman  John Grayken , bought 23 buildings from
State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. and will lease them
back to the largest U.S. property-casualty insurer.  The operations centers comprise 6.2 million square feet
(576,000 square meters) of  office space  in 16 states, the
insurer’s broker, Transwestern, said in a statement today.
That’s more than twice the  rentable space  in  New York ’s Empire
State Building.  The deal will provide cash for policyholder-owned State
Farm without requiring the company to issue debt. The insurer is
working to protect its share of the $178 billion auto market as
competitors including  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s Geico unit and
Progressive Corp. add customers.  “Leasing rather than owning property provides State Farm
the flexibility to make adjustments in our operations to better
serve our customers,” Rachael Risinger, a spokeswoman for
Bloomington, Illinois-based State Farm said yesterday in an e-mail. The insurer has “options to renew these leases if we
choose to do so.”  The purchase is the largest in the U.S. office market since
Blackstone Group LP bought about 10 million square feet from
Duke Realty Corp. for $1.1 billion in December 2011, according
to Real Capital Analytics Inc., a property-research firm. That
excludes deals in which the buyer took a minority interest.  A spokesman for Dallas-based  Lone Star  declined to comment
on the agreement with State Farm. Terms for the deal, which was
completed Nov. 8, weren’t disclosed.  Supermarkets, Restaurants  Lone Star specializes in buying assets from financial
institutions looking to cut debt or raise capital. The company
made its name acquiring distressed loan portfolios and lenders
in  Asia  starting in the late 1990s with investments ranging from
golf courses in Japan to office towers in Seoul.  Grayken’s company typically wagers on assets that have a
real-estate component. U.S. investments have included
supermarket Southeastern Grocers Inc., which filed for an
initial public offering in September, and Del Frisco’s
Restaurant Group Inc.  Lone Star raised $6.6 billion for a new fund this year to
invest in commercial real-estate debt and equity, mainly in
Europe. The firm has said its U.S. investments from that pool
will be mostly in secondary markets.  State Farm struck a similar deal this year. Two of  W.P.
Carey Inc. (WPC) ’s real-estate investment trusts bought the insurer’s
operation center in Austin,  Texas , in an August transaction
valued at about $110 million.  Higher Returns  The main reason investment-grade companies do these kinds
of transactions “is to have the real-estate capital earn higher
returns in core businesses,” said  Brian Scott , senior managing
director of the sale-leaseback group at CBRE Group Inc., the
world’s biggest commercial real-estate services firm. State Farm
is rated AA by  Standard & Poor’s , two levels from the top.  Competition for U.S. auto-insurance customers intensified
in the past decade with carriers spending almost $6 billion on
advertising last year,  data  compiled by SNL Financial show. Many
companies failed to increase their market share even with the
higher expenses, McKinsey & Co. said in a January report.  State Farm’s portion of total policy sales was little
changed at 18 percent in the four years through 2012, according
to  data  compiled by the  National Association of Insurance
Commissioners . Berkshire gained about 2 percentage points to end
the period at 9.6 percent of the market. Progressive also gained
share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  