-- Hong Kong H-Shares Erase 2012 Losses on PBOC Yuan Comment
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-11-20T09:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/hong-kong-stocks-head-for-january-high-on-pboc-yuan-comments.html
Hong Kong  stocks  rose, with a
measure of mainland companies traded in the city erasing this
year’s losses, after China’s central bank elaborated on plans to
free up foreign-exchange controls.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) , the world’s third-biggest bourse operator by market value, jumped 3 percent to
lead gains on the  Hang Seng Index  after Morgan Stanley increased
its rating. China Southern Airlines Co., the country’s biggest
domestic carrier, surged 6.3 percent to lead its peers higher.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland shares
traded in the city rose 0.6 percent to 11,437.44 at the close,
with the index little changed for the year. The  Hang Seng Index (HSI) 
gained 0.2 percent to 23,700.86, its highest close since Feb. 1.
About twice as many stocks climbed as dropped on the measure,
amid volume 28 percent higher than the 30-day average.  “Gradually we will see further appreciation on the yuan
and people will come in to buy assets, whether it’s equity or
properties,” said  Steven Leung , director of institutional sales
at UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. “Hong Kong stocks will definitely
benefit from the latest arrangement on the yuan. The sentiment
has been changed totally after the release of details from the
third plenum.”  H-Shares Rally  The so-called H-share index climbed 29 percent from this
year’s low on June 25 as data signaled  China’s economy  is
strengthening and policy makers unveiled the biggest package of
reforms since the 1990s. The Hang Seng Index was up 20 percent
from its June low. The city’s benchmark gauge  traded  at 11.3
times estimated earnings, compared with 16.2 for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index yesterday.  China’s central bank will “basically” end normal
intervention in the currency market and broaden the  yuan ’s daily
trading limit, Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said, without giving a
time frame. The daily range will be widened in an “orderly
way” as China seeks to enhance the currency’s two-way
flexibility, Zhou wrote in an article in a guidebook explaining
reforms outlined last week following a Communist Party meeting.  Quotas under the Qualified Domestic Institutional Investor
and Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor programs will be
expanded and then scrapped, Zhou said in the book comments.  Hong Kong Exchanges rose 3 percent to HK$138.90 after
Morgan Stanley analyst Anil Agarwal increased its rating on the
stock to equal-weight from underweight, and said the brokerage
will be more bullish on the stock if the turnover outlook keeps
improving.  Policy Shift  China last week released details of plans to allow more
private investment in state-controlled industries, loosen
family-planning rules and expand farmers’ land rights. The
nation is liberalizing policies in an effort to bolster an
economy that’s heading for its weakest annual expansion since
1999.  Futures on the  S&P 500  were little changed. Yue Yuen
Industrial (Holdings) Ltd., a shoemaker that gets about 29
percent of sales from the U.S., added 2.3 percent to HK$22.40 as
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said U.S. borrowing
costs will probably stay low long after the central bank ends
its monthly bond purchases.  Techtronic Industries Co. gained 5.7 percent to HK$20.20
after its largest customer Home Depot Inc. raised fiscal sales
guidance.  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd., a
shipbuilder, surged 21 percent to HK$1.16, while  Guangzhou
Shipyard International Co. (317)  gained 13 percent to HK$17.24.
China’s Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology  said
last week qualified shipbuilders can apply for policy support.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index were little changed at
23,757. The Hang Seng Volatility Index climbed 1.9 percent to
17.02, indicating traders expect the benchmark equity index to
swing 4.9 percent in the next 30 days.  “There are still quite a lot of long-term investors
waiting for some pull back to add exposure to their portfolio,”
said UOB’s Leung. “If the market doesn’t drop too much they’ll
have to rush in again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  