-- Mongolian Mining’s Rating Cut by Moody’s on Debt Payment Concern
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-11-20T11:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/mongolian-mining-s-rating-cut-by-moody-s-on-debt-payment-concern.html
Mongolian Mining Corp. (975) , which sells
42 percent of the nation’s coal to  China , was downgraded by
Moody’s Investors Service because of concern it may not be able
to pay its  debt .  The rating was cut by a level to Caa2, Moody’s said today
in a statement, the fourth-lowest non-investment grade. The
Ulaanbaatar-based company is negotiating waivers and relaxation
of its bank covenants, Moody’s said.  Miners in  Mongolia  are under pressure as the nation’s coal
exports dropped 20 percent in the first nine months of this year
and as prices of the commodity declined. Mongolian Mining is
seeking to reschedule loan repayments after it reported a first-half loss of $25.2 million, Chief Executive Officer Battsengel Gotov said in August.  “Its cash balance will be insufficient to address debt-servicing requirements” in the second half of 2013 and 2014,
Moody’s said in the statement.  The company expects to increase cash and reduce debt-servicing requirements next year after a possible loan
restructuring and sale of its paved road, Mongolian Mining Chief
Financial Officer Ulemj Baskhuu said today in an e-mail reply to
questions.  “The coking coal price weakness has impacted the company
earnings and liquidity position,” Baskhuu said. “However,
because of the successful cost cutting measures and improvements
in operational efficiencies, we were able to mitigate this
impact. With regards to the downgrade, I believe that agency
opinion and timing is an independent view.”  MMC shares gained 3.1 percent to HK$1.35 at the close of
trading in  Hong Kong  today, before Moody’s released its
statement. The stock has slumped 64 percent this year, compared
with a 4.6 percent gain in the key  Hang Seng (2828)  index.  “There are some other possible avenues for MMC to enhance
its liquidity position in the next 12 months, such as a
significant asset divestment, or equity injection, particularly
after the relaxation of foreign investment laws in Mongolia,”
Moody’s said. “However, these options may be limited by its low
share price and weakened asset valuation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  