-- Online Courses Fail to Reach Poor Students as Richest Benefit
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-11-20T18:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/online-courses-fail-to-reach-poor-students-as-richest-benefit.html
Most people taking free online
courses worldwide are among the best-educated and wealthiest of
the population, casting doubt on the idea that the classes will
benefit the disenfranchised, a survey showed.  More than half of those taking massive open online courses,
or MOOCs, were men and the majority were already employed,
according to Ezekiel Emanuel, vice provost for Global
Initiatives at the  University of Pennsylvania  and one of the
authors of the correspondence piece in today’s journal  Nature .  The survey of about 35,000 participants in more than 200
countries is one of the first to look at who is taking the
classes. It shows a disparity between actual users and those
that MOOC founders have said may benefit from putting college
curriculum online, Emanuel said. More efforts are needed,
including better access to technology, electricity and basic
education, to help the disadvantaged gain access, he said.  “If you are privileged you already have access to
computers,” Emanuel in a telephone interview today. “The
‘have-nots’ are not going to have access to this. It’s not so
easy to shorten that barrier. Maybe over the next 10 to 20 years
that will go down but, for the moment, MOOCs are likely to
increase disparities in-country.”  Already Educated  The authors looked at 34,779 responses from a University of
Pennsylvania survey in July of students in 32 course sessions.
The classes were offered by Coursera Inc., a venture-capital-backed, for-profit company started by two Stanford University
professors offering more than 500 courses.  They found that 83 percent of the students already had a
two-year or four-year college degree, and the majority had
education levels exceeding the general population in their
country, including both developing and non-developing nations.  In  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India ,  China  and  South Africa , where
there is a rising middle class with increasing education
standards and where many families can’t afford to send their
children to universities outside their home country, almost 80
percent of students taking the courses were among the wealthiest
and best educated 6 percent of the population, according to the
survey.  “If we’re going to make these available, there’s a lot of
work that has to be done,” Emanuel said. “We can’t just throw
this up on the web and assume goodness will happen. It doesn’t
work that way.”  Dozens of universities have been joining partnerships over
the last few years to put their most popular courses online for
free. People from around the world can sign up for the classes,
which usually aren’t for credit and don’t lead to a degree.  Coursera said in October it will offer free online courses
in more than 30 locations worldwide, mostly in  developing
countries . The classes will be available at some U.S. embassies
where students can have access to reliable Internet and learn
from local course facilitators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  