-- Morgan Stanley Said in Discussions to Sell Oil Unit to Rosneft
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-11-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/morgan-stanley-said-in-discussions-to-sell-oil-unit-to-rosneft.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  is in talks to sell
its global oil business to  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , Russia’s largest
petroleum producer, a person briefed on the discussions said.  The talks are in early stages and a deal may not be
reached, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the matter is private. The bank hasn’t discussed selling its
entire commodities unit to Rosneft and may remain in some oil
derivative businesses even with a sale, the person said.  Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer James Gorman has
been exploring options for the commodities business for more
than a year as the unit faces lower revenue and scrutiny from
regulators who are reviewing banks’ activities in the sector.
Gorman, 55, also has been trying to shrink the amount of capital
dedicated to the fixed-income and commodity division in his
quest to boost the bank’s return on equity.  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for the New York-based
bank, declined to comment, as did a spokeswoman for Moscow-based
Rosneft, who couldn’t be identified due to company policy.
SparkSpread, an online energy publication, reported the talks
Nov. 19.  State-run Rosneft became the world’s largest publicly
traded oil producer by volume after completing the $55 billion
purchase of TNK-BP,  Russia ’s third-biggest producer, in March.
Rosneft is also boosting its natural gas business by acquiring a
stake in the SeverEnergia venture and assets from OAO Alrosa and
Itera.  ‘Important Driver’  Any sale would probably include TransMontaigne Inc., a
Denver-based petroleum and chemical transportation and storage
company, and the bank’s 49 percent stake in Heidmar Inc., based
in Norwalk,  Connecticut , which manages about 100 oil and
chemical tankers, the person said.  The oil unit represents a major part of the firm’s
commodity business, which is run by  Simon Greenshields  and Colin Bryce, both 57, and also includes a large gas and power unit and
a smaller metals business. In 2011, oil accounted for about 45
percent of the business,  Glenn Schorr , then a Nomura Holdings
Inc. analyst, said in a research note at the time.  Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat, 55, said in July that
the oil liquids market “over time, has been the most important
driver of our commodities business.”  Morgan Stanley’s commodity business posted a return on
equity of less than 5 percent in 2012, the lowest among its
trading businesses. The firm cut 10 percent of its workforce in
the division this year and held talks in 2012 with Qatar’s
sovereign-wealth fund about selling a stake in the business.  The Federal Reserve is examining legal and regulatory
exemptions that allow banks to participate in the commodities
markets, a person briefed on the process said last month. Morgan
Stanley is covered by a 1999 law that grandfathers any
commodities operations it had before Sept. 30, 1997.  Commodity trading revenue at the 10 largest global
investment banks fell 18 percent in the first nine months of the
year to $4 billion, industry analytics firm Coalition Ltd. said
in a report this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  