-- Morocco’s Saham Group Buys Angola’s Largest Private Insurer
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-11-20T15:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/morocco-s-saham-group-buys-angola-s-largest-private-insurer.html
Groupe Saham, a Morocco-based
 investment company , bought GA Angola Seguros SA, Angola’s
largest closely held insurance company by revenue, for an
undisclosed amount, GA Chief Executive Officer Fernando Dolbeth
Assuncao said.  Saham , founded in 1995 by Moulay Hafid Elalamy, operates 35
insurance companies in 19 countries across Africa and the Middle
East, including  Benin ,  Ivory Coast , Cameroon, Mali,  Gabon ,
 Senegal  and Togo. The deal “will significantly contribute to
the development of the Angolan insurance market,” Assuncao said
in a statement issued today.  The Angolan insurance market is valued at about $1 billion
a year in gross written premiums, with policies dominated by the
oil industry, according to a May report by Trevor Barsdorf, an
analyst at Johannesburg-based Global Credit Rating Co. The
country is  Africa ’s largest crude producer after Nigeria.  GA’s revenue was $161 million or about 16 percent of
Angola’s market last year, Chief Underwriter Shawn Kriedemann
said in an e-mailed response to questions today.  The company has an A rating among the country’s 13
insurance companies, Barsdorf said in the report. Saham’s
acquisition, similar to others it’s done in Africa, shows how
larger insurance companies are seeking regional partners in
countries with attractive growth opportunities, he said in e-mailed response to questions.  “The corporate activity highlights a confidence expressed
by external stakeholders regarding the Angolan insurance
market,” Barsdorf said. The deal “ultimately bodes well for
the underlying insurer as it could provide additional balance
sheet capacity.”  Client List  GA’s client list includes  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) , the second-largest U.S. energy company, Brazil’s
Odebrecht SA and diamond producer De Beers, according to a
company presentation. With six branches staffed by 150
employees, it obtained its Angola operating license in 2005, the
first private insurance company to enter the market in 30 years,
the company said.  Angola’s largest insurer is the state-owned AAA, which has
benefited from strong business with state-owned oil company
Sonangol EP and has about 40 percent of the market, according to
Barsdorf.  Empresa Nacional de Seguros e Resseguros de Angola, a
state-owned company also known as Ensa, controls about 37
percent by focusing on government projects and aviation, he
said.  One Alliance Insurance Services owned 70 percent of GA,
according to the company. The remaining 30 percent was held by
an undisclosed Angolan partner.  Chairman Ivor Michael Alan Lewis began One Alliance in 1996
to operate in Ghana and Mozambique before those operations were
sold to Activa Group and Barclays/Absa Insurance, respectively.
The company has staff in  Angola  and is preparing to start
operations in other countries in sub-Saharan Africa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  