-- Toronto Borrowing Costs Rise as Ford Drug Scandal Consumes City
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-11-20T05:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/toronto-borrowing-costs-rise-as-ford-drug-scandal-consumes-city.html
Toronto Mayor Rob Ford’s crack
scandal is beginning to weigh on the city’s finances, driving up
borrowing costs and threatening to delay fixes to  North
America ’s second-worst traffic congestion.  The extra interest Toronto must pay to borrow from the  bond
market  compared with federal government benchmarks rose four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 94 basis points since
city council urged Ford to step aside after he admitted to
smoking crack cocaine. During the same period, borrowing costs
in the broader Bank of America Merrill Lynch Canadian Provincial
& Municipal Index fell one basis point.  “Anybody who is outside the city or outside the country
may just want to clean up their portfolios before this thing
gets even uglier,” said Hosen Marjaee, senior managing director
of fixed income at Manulife Asset Management Ltd., which manages
C$16 billion ($15.3 billion) in debt, including Toronto bonds.
“I’m not worried about the city or city finances or the ability
to pay its debt, I’m worried about the negative press it’s
getting, and inability to move on.”  The crisis at city hall has escalated since the first news
reports by the Toronto Star and other media six months ago that
the mayor had been caught on video smoking  crack cocaine . Ford
refused to step down after admitting he used the drug, and that
he purchased illegal drugs while mayor.  Ford’s admissions have dominated debate at city council
this month, leading councilors to cut Ford’s staff and budget,
and remove his powers to lead the executive committee in
 Canada ’s biggest city.  “I think the worry would come when the city stops being
able to function,” Marjaee said by phone from Toronto. “If the
city council gets consumed by dealing with the mayor and people
stop paying attention to what they have to do on a day-to-day
basis, looking after the affairs of citizens -- then it becomes
a problem.”  Bond Yields  The extra interest investors demand for Toronto’s 3.5
percent bond maturing in December 2021 compared to federal
benchmarks increased 15 basis since Nov. 12, when the council
began working on motions asking Ford to step aside and stripping
him of powers. The spread between Toronto’s bonds and federal
government benchmarks reached its widest this year on Oct. 29
and has narrowed since, before widening out again over the past
week.  “Mr. Ford has brought dishonor to public office, the
office of the Mayor and his city,” said  Jason Kenney , the
federal minister of employment, in Ottawa yesterday. “He should
step aside and stop dragging the City of Toronto through this
terrible embarrassment.”  Several of Ford’s mayoral duties now rest with Deputy Mayor
Norm Kelly, though no leader will have a democratic mandate to
lead the council until new city elections in October.  Decisions Deferred  “Toronto elected the most dysfunctional and incompetent
and anti-urban mayor in modern history,” said  Richard Florida ,
a professor at the University of Toronto’s Rotman School of
Management and author of “The Rise of the Creative Class.”
“These costs may not be seen in the short run but show
themselves in the long run. The biggest cost is the opportunity
costs of investments and decisions deferred.”  The turmoil at council comes as Toronto looks for ways to
ease what the Toronto Board of Trade estimates is a 66-minute
average commute, the longest in North America after  New York .  The city is in need of new transportation infrastructure to
cut down on the gridlock, which costs the Toronto region C$6
billion annually in lost productivity, according to a  report 
from Toronto-Dominion Bank. That number could grow to C$15
billion per year by 2031, according to the report, citing
Toronto Board of Trade figures.  Mayor Ford won support from city council for a tax increase
to fund a subway extension to the suburban neighborhood of
Scarborough, which will be partially funded by the federal and
provincial governments.  Subway Crowding  However, the Toronto Transit Commission has  warned  that
extending the  subway system  further into the suburbs will result
in “significant overcrowding” on the city’s main subway artery
along Yonge Street by 2031. The only way to solve the problem is
to build a “downtown relief line,” according to the
commission. That proposal is currently being studied by the city
planner.  “I would characterize the challenges the city faces as
urgent,” Derek Burleton, deputy chief economist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, said by phone from Toronto. “Not only is there a
leadership void but the attention of the city council has been
diverted. This is not helpful to the city in addressing its
challenges.”  Toronto’s economy also faces challenges as the housing boom
which helped power its economy slows down. Though Toronto had
more housing highrises under construction than any city in North
America last year, construction is beginning to slow.  Housing Slowdown  Total housing starts in the first nine months of 2013 fell
36 percent from the same period last year, while residential
pre-sales in the Greater Toronto Area this year are the lowest
for the past decade, according to a Nov. 12  report  from the
city. Resale  home prices  in Toronto are forecast to rise 2.4
percent this year and 2 percent in 2014, according to a
 Conference Board of Canada  report yesterday.  Still, the city’s finances are among the soundest in
Canada. Ford ran in 2010 on a promise to “stop the gravy
train” at city hall and last year under his leadership Toronto
cut spending for the first time since it was amalgamated with
five surrounding suburbs in 1998.  Debt Load  The mayor has touted his economic record throughout the
scandal, saying no money has been squandered and he continues to
fight to cut spending and lower taxes. The city’s net debt to
total revenue is 37 percent, compared with an average of about
65 percent to 70 percent for Canadian cities, Moody’s Investors
Service said in its annual review on the city, released in May.
The large, diversified economy, home to the country’s biggest
banks, is a source of credit strength, Moody’s said.  Moody’s rates Toronto’s debt Aa1, the second-highest
rating.  “It looks like council has been able to take the decisions
to ensure the city is still functioning and operating,” said
Jennifer Wong an analyst at Moody’s by phone from Toronto.
“Council will set the direction of the city but a lot of these
structures are already in place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  