-- Paul Smith Collects Banksy, No Slave to Shareholders
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-11-20T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/paul-smith-collects-banksy-no-slave-to-shareholders.html
Paul Smith  picked an unlikely venue
for his first international collection in 1976: an unglamorous
ground-floor hotel room in Paris’s Latin Quarter.  “I laid some black fabric over the bed, laid out my shirts,
and two pieces of knitwear and two jackets in the wardrobe, and
sat there, and nobody came!” recalls the designer with a laugh.
On the last day, “one person came at four o’clock in the
afternoon, and I was off. That was the start.”  Today, Smith, -- 60 percent owner of a  fashion house  with
sales of 178.8 million pounds ($288 million) in the year ended
June 30, 2012 -- has a solo show at the  London   Design Museum 
that includes a handpainted cardboard replica of that Paris
room.  Also on view are rows of colorful jackets; designs for the
Mini car, the Evian bottle, and the new David Bowie album; a
wall of multicolored buttons; and a central hallway filled with
pictures he owns, including black-and-white photographs of
sculptor  Alberto Giacometti .  Jovial and eager to show he’s still a “down-to-earth” guy,
Smith leads me into a replica of his real-life office, cluttered
with teapots, a green bike (he loves cycling), old books and a
fake spaghetti plate. He rearranges the display, taking
magazines off an old wooden chair he sits on.  Smith opened his tiny first store (also recreated for the
show) in Nottingham back in 1970 with future wife Pauline, a
 Royal College of Art  graduate who became a lifelong influence.
His first London shop opened in 1979.  Lemon Stripe  “In the early ’80s, I managed to nudge rather than push the
British male into realizing it was OK to wear a bit of color,”
says Smith, wearing tortoiseshell glasses and a jacket over his
patterned green shirt. “I’d do a Prince of Wales check, but
instead of it having a burgundy stripe, it had a lemon stripe.”  Travel helped open male minds. “People were suddenly going
to  Spain  and going to  Italy  and seeing that perfectly nice young
guys were wearing color and they had girlfriends and it was
alright!”  What’s it like to be a luxury logo now? “I think it’s
really odd. People talk to me about the brand, and I’m looking
around thinking, who are they talking about?” he says. “It
doesn’t feel right to me, I’m still Paul.”  Smith owns art by Giacometti and Hockney, as well as three
works by the street artist Banksy -- a stencil of a rat with a
ghetto blaster, a copy of a Constable print that Banksy has
turned into a congestion-charge sign, and a painting: “It’s  Van Gogh ’s ’Sunflowers,’ but they’re all dead.”  Banksy Alert  Banksy is “very alert: He’s very understanding about the
dreadful things that go on in the world,” says the designer.
“And he’s a real good commentator on that which, in a very
modern way, the youth can identify with.”  One dreadful event was the April death of more than 1,100
people in the collapse of the Rana Plaza garment-factory complex
in  Bangladesh .  “Unfortunately, a lot of people are still working hard at
their profit margins at the expense of labor that’s probably not
paid correctly and fabric which is not maybe as good as it
should be,” Smith says.  That’s not the case with him, as he charges much more. “We
personally still work very hard at beautiful quality, and the
bulk of Paul Smith is made in Britain or Italy.”  The company is in good shape, he says, because it never
borrowed money, owns most of its buildings, and “we’re not the
slave of shareholders.”  What if his company were bought by a conglomerate such as
 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , which has acquired Bulgari
SpA, Loro Piana SpA, and stakes in fashion designer J.W.
Anderson and shoemaker Nicholas Kirkwood?  The thought “appalls me,” he replies. “How would it make
any difference to me? I’m a very happy man.”  “Hello, My Name is Paul Smith” runs through March 9, 2014
at the Design Museum, Shad Thames, London SE1 2YD. Information:
 http://www.designmuseum.org  or call +44-20-7403-6933.  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 