-- PBOC Says No Longer in China’s Interest to Increase Reserves
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-21T03:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/pboc-says-no-longer-in-china-s-favor-to-boost-record-reserves.html
The People’s Bank of China said the
country does not benefit any more from increases in its foreign-currency holdings, adding to signs policy makers will rein in
dollar purchases that limit the yuan’s appreciation.  “It’s no longer in China’s favor to accumulate foreign-exchange reserves,”  Yi Gang , a deputy governor at the central
bank, said in a speech organized by China Economists 50 Forum at
Tsinghua University yesterday. The monetary authority will
“basically” end normal intervention in the  currency market  and
broaden the yuan’s daily trading range, Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan 
wrote in an article in a guidebook explaining reforms outlined
last week following a Communist Party meeting. Neither Yi nor
Zhou gave a timeframe for any changes.  China’s foreign-exchange reserves surged $166 billion in
the third quarter to a record $3.66 trillion, more than triple
those of any other country and bigger than the gross domestic
product of Germany, Europe’s largest economy. The increase
suggested money poured into the nation’s assets even as
developing nations from Brazil to India saw an exit of capital
because of concern the  Federal Reserve  will taper stimulus.  Yi, who is also head of the State Administration of Foreign
Exchange, said in the speech that the  yuan ’s appreciation
benefits more people in China than it hurts.  ‘Less Interventionist’  His comments are “consistent with the plans to increase
the  renminbi ’s flexibility so they become less
interventionist,”  Sacha Tihanyi , senior currency strategist at
Scotiabank in Hong Kong, said by phone today. The central bank
may widen the yuan’s trading band in “the coming few months,”
he added.  The yuan’s spot rate is allowed to diverge a maximum 1
percent on either side of a daily  reference rate  set by the
People’s Bank of China. The trading range was doubled in April
2012, after being expanded from 0.3 percent in May 2007. The
band could be widened to 2 percent, Hong Kong Apple Daily
reported today, citing an interview with the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority’s former chief executive  Joseph Yam .  Capital inflows into China accelerated in October, official
data suggest.  Yuan positions  at the nation’s financial
institutions accumulated from foreign-exchange purchases, a
gauge of capital flows, climbed 441.6 billion yuan ($72
billion), the most since January.  About half of October’s increase in the positions was
attributable to surpluses in trade and foreign direct
investment, with the rest accounted for by inflows of “hot
money,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Hong Kong-based analysts MK
Tang and Li Cui wrote in a Nov. 18 note.  Stronger Yuan  The yuan has appreciated 2.3 percent against the greenback
this year, the best-performance of 24 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. Non-deliverable 12-month forwards rose 0.2
percent this week and reached 6.1430 per dollar on Nov. 20,
matching an all-time high recorded on Oct. 16. The currency was
little changed at 6.0932 as of 10:33 a.m. in Shanghai today.  “It appears that many in the People’s Bank think the time
is about right to scale back currency interventions,”  Mark Williams , London-based chief Asia economist at Capital Economics
Ltd., wrote in an e-mail yesterday. “But China has got itself
into a situation where stopping intervention will be very hard
to do” and comments such as Yi’s will spur speculative inflows,
he added.  Less intervention and smaller gains in foreign-exchange
reserves may damp China’s appetite for  U.S. government debt . The
 nation  is the largest foreign creditor to the U.S. and its
holdings of Treasuries increased by $25.7 billion, or 2 percent,
to $1.294 trillion in September, the biggest gain since
February. U.S. government securities lost 2.6 percent this year,
according to the Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond  Index. (BUSY)   Yi’s comments didn’t imply China will be cutting its
holdings of U.S. government debt, said Scotiabank’s Tihanyi.
“They are probably going to keep their allocations reasonably
stable unless there’s a big policy shift, but it means they will
possibly be buying less at the margin,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  