-- Peugeot Talks Said to Hit Snag on Dongfeng Holding Size
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u ,   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-11-20T16:43:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/peugeot-talks-said-to-hit-snag-on-dongfeng-holding-size.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ’s plan to raise
funds through a share sale have hit a snag as  Dongfeng Motor
Corp. (489)  seeks a smaller stake than first discussed, people
familiar with the matter said.  Dongfeng is weighing buying around 10 percent, half the
size of the original proposal, said the people, who asked not to
be identified discussing private talks. The Chinese company is
more interested in expanding an existing industrial venture than
buying a stake, they said.  Peugeot originally proposed a capital increase of at least
3 billion euros ($4.1 billion), in which Dongfeng and the French
state would take equal stakes of about 20 percent, people
familiar said last month. Peugeot, which reported a first-half
operating loss in its automotive unit of 510 million euros, is
looking to raise money for development spending and to expand
outside  Europe , where demand is at a two-decade low.  “Peugeot’s issues today are so global that having Dongfeng
buying 10 percent of its shares won’t change anything,” Florent Couvreur, an analyst at CM-CIC Securities in Paris who
recommends selling the shares. “Peugeot has to deal with
restructuring its European activities; its synergies with GM,
which are non-existent; the inconsistency of its product range
and its huge operational problems.”  Shares Plunge  Peugeot, Europe’s second-largest automaker,  dropped  76
cents, or 7 percent, to 10.17 euros at the close of trading
today in Paris. The stock has gained 86 percent this year,
valuing the French manufacturer at 3.61 billion euros.  A smaller Dongfeng stake would potentially give the state,
interested in  protecting jobs  and retaining the automaker’s base
in  France , greater say. Some in the Peugeot family, which owns
25.5 percent, are concerned about the French government’s
increased influence and want guaranteed board seats or other
protections as a counterweight after a capital increase likely
dilutes their holding, the people said.  Another option Peugeot has would be selling its 57 percent
Faurecia SA stake, with Canadian parts-maker  Magna International
Inc. (MG)  and other industrial competitors showing interest in the
French supplier, people said. Peugeot thus far has said that it
intends to keep the holding.  Faurecia  gained  82 cents, or 3.4 percent, to 24.82 euros.  GM Partnership  Pierre-Olivier Salmon, a Peugeot spokesman, declined to
comment. Marianne Zalc-Muller, Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg ’s spokeswoman and Tracy Fuerst, a Magna spokeswoman,
didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment. A call to
Dongfeng’s headquarters in Wuhan,  China , outside of regular
business hours was not answered.  A 10 percent stake by Dongfeng and focus on expanding the
existing joint venture would more closely mirror the Paris-based
automaker’s current partnership with  General Motors Co. (GM) , which
owns 7 percent of Peugeot. Dongfeng and Peugeot already operate
three factories together in China, with annual production
capacity set to rise by two-thirds to 750,000 vehicles by the
end of 2015.  The share sale is progressing slower than planned as
Dongfeng, the French government and Peugeot’s controlling family
bargain over influence and the size of their eventual holdings,
with a final agreement not expected until the end of the year at
the earliest, the people said.  Banking Unit  Peugeot, which is also talking to other potential
industrial partners, is not likely to look more closely at
 Faurecia (EO)  until completing the Dongfeng deal, the people said.  Peugeot is also considering the sale of a stake in its
banking unit and continues to hold talks with  Banco Santander SA (SAN) 
in Spain regarding a holding in Banque PSA Finance, people
familiar said. A Santander representative declined to comment.  Peugeot family members are at odds with one another over
how best to secure the automaker’s future, with Thierry, who
heads the automaker’s supervisory board, wanting to retain
greater control and Robert, who heads the publicly traded
 investment vehicle FFP , opposed to sticking additional funds
into the carmaker, two people familiar with the matter said.  Their cousin, Jean-Philippe, has been trying to negotiate
between the opposing camps to reach an agreement, they said.
Jean-Philippe’s support is critical to any final decision
because he heads EPF, the family’s unlisted holding company. EPF
controls the listed  FFP (FFP) , which in turn owns the family’s main
Peugeot stake.  The family clashed with the French government last month
after a state official went to China to discuss Peugeot without
the knowledge of the family or carmaker’s executives, a person
said.  Louis Gallois , the state’s Peugeot board representative,
is now acting as the main conduit for negotiations between the
family and government, the person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in  Hong Kong  at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in  New York  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  