-- TPG Capital Said to Target $2.65 Billion for Credit Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-11-20T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/tpg-capital-said-to-target-2-65-billion-for-credit-fund.html
TPG Capital, the private-equity firm
started by  David Bonderman  and  Jim Coulter , has set a $2.65
billion goal for its next global credit-focused fund, according
to two people familiar with the situation.  The fund, TPG Opportunities Partners III LP, doesn’t have a
capital-raising limit, said one of the people, who asked not to
be identified because the information isn’t public.  Fort Worth ,
Texas-based TPG started informally raising money from
prospective investors in the third quarter.  The firm, which was founded in 1992 and has $55.3 billion
under management, has been pursuing deals outside of its main
buyout funds. In 2012, TPG gathered $2 billion for its latest
growth-equity fund and started marketing its fourth
biotechnology vehicle.  Lisa Baker , a spokeswoman at Owen Blicksilver Public
Relations Inc., declined to comment on behalf of TPG.  The new fund is managed by the credit and special-situations business known as TPG Special Situations Partners, or
TSSP. Special situations may involve companies that are poorly
managed, lack access to capital or face structural changes in an
industry, according to a marketing document obtained by
 Bloomberg News . The firm also seeks to purchase loan portfolios
directly from banks at deep discounts.  Predecessor’s Returns  The firm’s prior Opportunities Partners fund, which raised
more than $2 billion last year, was producing a multiple of 1.2
times invested capital as of August, a person familiar with the
matter said at the time.  TPG and Alan Waxman founded the opportunities strategy in
2009 to take advantage of credit “dislocations” and other
special situations, according to the marketing memorandum. The
firm started investing in the strategy that May, mostly from the
2008 flagship fund, TPG Partners VI LP, and TPG Financial
Partners LP.  Waxman, chief investment officer of TSSP, is a former co-head of the Americas Special Situations Group at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  