-- Portugal Doesn’t Rule Out Selling Airline TAP to Efromovich
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2013-11-20T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/portugal-doesn-t-rule-out-selling-airline-tap-to-efromovich.html
Brazilian investor German Efromovich
may still be a candidate to buy Portuguese airline TAP SGPS SA
if the government restarts the sale of the state-owned company
next year, said Sergio Monteiro, secretary of state for public
works, transport and communications.  Portugal  rejected an offer from Efromovich, whose Synergy
Group controls the Avianca airline brands in  South America ,
citing lack of financial guarantees by the sole bidder to
complete the deal.  “If the best offer for the state came from the same
investor that made a bid in December of 2012, I don’t see why
not,” Monteiro said in an interview yesterday. Efromovich’s
strategic project for TAP at the time was “very good.”  Portugal’s government may try to sell TAP again in 2014,
Monteiro said. The country agreed to dispose of the flag carrier
after requesting a bailout by the  International Monetary Fund 
and European Union in 2011 and is currently monitoring market
conditions to try to resume the sale, he said.  Efromovich met with Portugal’s Economy Minister Antonio Pires de Lima last month, according to a ministry spokesman, who
declined to provide details. Asked whether Efromovich was
interested in bidding again for TAP, Monteiro replied, “we have
regular meetings with several people interested in different
companies.”  Efromovich said on Sept. 10 that TAP might no longer be
first choice as a vehicle for expanding Synergy in  Europe .
Monteiro said a sale would bring in much-needed capital to fund
TAP’s growth.  “TAP currently lacks the capacity to buy a fleet with
enough size to take advantage of other routes,” Monteiro said.
“It needs an investor that will recapitalize it and lower its
level of indebtedness.”  TAP’s 2012 loss narrowed to 30.8 million euros ($41.8
million) from 76.8 million euros a year earlier. Total debt fell
to 1.03 billion euros from 1.23 billion euros, according to
TAP’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  