-- Pound Rises Against Dollar After BOE Minutes, Jumps Versus Euro
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-11-20T16:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/pound-approaches-three-week-high-versus-dollar-before-minutes.html
The pound strengthened to a three-week high against the dollar as speculation the  Bank of England 
will raise its benchmark interest rate earlier than it forecast
spurred demand for the U.K. currency.  Sterling jumped the most this month versus the euro after
people with knowledge of the discussion said the  European
Central Bank  may cut its deposit rate to minus 0.1 percent. Bank
of England policy makers said in the minutes of their November
meeting released today that record-low borrowing costs may still
be needed even after the jobless rate falls to 7 percent. U.K.
government bonds declined for a second day.  “The broad story supporting sterling is still intact,”
said Jeremy Hale, head of macro strategy at Citigroup Inc. in
London. “While the minutes showed there was some discussion
about not raising rates, I don’t think anyone particularly
thought they would jump to hike anyway. It’s still clear that
the economy has a lot of momentum and it’s clear that the
direction for rates eventually is up.”  The pound advanced 0.2 percent to $1.6150 at 4:37 p.m.
 London  time after increasing to $1.6178, the highest level since
Oct. 28. The U.K. currency jumped 0.8 percent to 83.29 pence per
euro, the biggest gain since Oct. 31.  ‘Appropriate Stance’  The BOE minutes showed the nine-member Monetary Policy
Committee voted unanimously to keep the benchmark rate at 0.5
percent and the  asset-purchase program  at 375 billion pounds at
the meeting that ended Nov. 7.  “Once unemployment had reached 7 percent, the committee
would reassess what it had learned about the nature of the
recovery,” the MPC said. “In the meantime, the committee would
continue to judge the appropriate stance for policy each month
in line with the guidance given in August.”  The committee said data over the past month had not changed
its assessment materially. The collective view was that
productivity was “likely to increase over the forecast
period,” it said.  Under the forward guidance policy introduced by Governor
 Mark Carney  in August, the MPC has said it won’t consider
raising its key rate at least until joblessness falls to 7
percent. In forecasts published last week, based on no change to
the benchmark rate, it saw that threshold being reached at the
end of next year.  The pound extended its advance versus the euro after two
people familiar with the discussion told  Bloomberg News  the ECB
was considering a smaller-than-normal cut in the deposit rate if
officials decided to take it negative for the first time.  Policy makers would reduce the rate for commercial lenders
who park excess cash at the central bank to minus 0.1 percent
from zero, said the people who declined to be identified because
the talks aren’t public.  Gilt Yields  The yield on the benchmark 10-year gilt rose one basis
point to 2.74 percent after climbing as much as five basis
points. The 2.25 percent bond maturing in September 2023 dropped
0.11, or 1.10 pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 95.84.  The Debt Management Office plans to sell 4.75 billion
pounds of notes due in July 2019 tomorrow.  “The five-year area is not our favored area of the gilt
curve with macro activity improvements likely to weigh further
in 2014,” Shahid Ladha, an  interest-rate  strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in London, wrote today in a note to clients.
“Nonetheless, we do see support for the gilts market in the
coming weeks. Investors may find gilts increasingly attractive
versus bunds and Treasuries, given their sharp
underperformance.”  Gilts fell 2.8 percent this year through yesterday,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German bonds dropped
1.2 percent and Treasuries declined 2.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  