-- Qualcomm to Return 75% of Free Cash Flow to Investors
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-11-20T22:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/qualcomm-to-return-75-of-free-cash-flow-to-investors.html
Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the largest maker of
chips for smartphones, plans to return about 75 percent of free
 cash flow  to investors in the form of dividends and buybacks,
said Chief Executive Officer  Paul Jacobs .  The company is aiming to bolster dividend payments to
shareholders at a faster pace than earnings are increasing,
Jacobs said today at a company event in  New York .  Jacobs and other Qualcomm  executives  are making
presentations to investors to explain how the company can
reignite revenue expansion. Earlier this month, Qualcomm
forecast sales growth of about 8 percent for fiscal 2014,
following average gains of 31 percent over the prior three
years. Demand for smartphones remains robust, Jacobs said.  “The numbers are still staggering,” he said. “We are
going to get a lot more people onto mobile broadband systems
between now and 2017.”  Qualcomm’s indicated dividend yield is 1.97 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 3.66
percent at  Intel Corp ., the world’s largest chipmaker. In fiscal
2013, San Diego-based Qualcomm returned 86 percent of free cash
flow, or $6.7 billion, to investors.  Qualcomm  shares  fell 1.1 percent to $71.03 at the close in
New York. The stock has gained 15 percent this year, trailing
the 25 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The chipmaker, trying to extend its lead in mobile phones,
introduced a new Snapdragon processor today that can handle the
highest quality video and higher resolution photos.  Faster Downloads  The company also said it will begin selling a new modem for
mobile phones that will be able to download data at speeds as
fast as 300 megabits per second, exceeding most traditional
broadband connections. The Gobi 9x35 modem will have the ability
to combine data sent over different frequency ranges into one
stream.  As part of its attempts to expand into new areas, Qualcomm
is also offering a chip, based on its mobile phone products,
that will enable home electronics to handle high-speed data and
functions such as home automation, said Amir Faintuch, president
of Qualcomm Atheros. Current devices are limited by their lack
of computing power, he said.  Jacobs said the company isn’t currently considering a large
acquisition. Instead, Qualcomm intends to use domestic  cash  and
short-term investments, which total $8.1 billion, to fund
dividends and share buybacks and may take on debt for future
payouts, said Chief Financial Officer  George Davis . The company
has $21.3 billion in additional cash overseas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  