-- Rainforest Plan for Forest Carbon Supervisor Stalls in UN
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-11-20T11:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/rainforest-plan-for-forest-carbon-supervisor-stalls-in-un.html
Discord over forest-protection
efforts have emerged regarding whether a new UN panel should be
empowered to control the flow of funds into projects to preserve
woodlands.  The disagreement centers on a  proposal  by the Coalition of
Rainforest Nations, whose 41 members include  Argentina ,  Kenya ,
 Indonesia  and  Ghana , to set up an advisory body. The group would
“improve coherence and coordination in the delivery of
financial and technical support for the implementation” of so-called REDD-plus projects.  Climate envoys at a United Nations conference in Warsaw
have made progress on a way to measure how much carbon pollution
is avoided by preventing deforestation and how to calculate
baselines against which to measure future savings, according to
documents published on the website of the UN Framework
Convention on  Climate Change . Deforestation causes 15 percent of
global greenhouse gas emissions, according to the WWF
environmental group.  “The Coalition for Rainforest Nations, led by Papua New
Guinea, is holding a REDD-plus finance decision hostage until
countries agree to establish a ‘REDD-plus body’ under the
UNFCCC,” Stephen Leonard, president of the Climate Justice
Programe, said Nov. 18. “It happened in 2012 in Doha, and
history is repeating itself here in Warsaw.”  Papuan View  Kevin Conrad,  Papua New Guinea ’s ambassador for climate and
environment, said that REDD-plus issues are discussed in too
many different parts of the  UN climate talks  and need to be
grouped together under an overall coordinating body.  “The Rainforest Coalition wants a place in the process to
handle all discussions, to scale up and to mobilize finance for
REDD-plus projects,” he said in an interview in Warsaw on Nov.
19. “We want to create efficiencies in the fragmented and
wasteful way in which REDD-plus is handled.”  Developed countries including the European Union oppose the
move, saying that the coordination of finance and technical
support could be carried out by existing institutions.  “The EU does not wish to set up a REDD-plus committee,”
Isaac Valero-Ladron, a spokesman for  Connie Hedegaard , the
bloc’s climate chief, said by e-mail Nov. 18. “We would rather
identify the coordination functions that are needed and whether
these functions can be met within existing bodies under the
convention.”  World Bank  Financial assistance for forest protection in  developing
countries  is presently arranged and overseen either bilaterally
by countries or by international financial institutions like the
World Bank, with each lender setting up its own guidelines.
Setting up a REDD-plus Committee would speed up the development
of rules and policy that lenders could adopt, Conrad says.  “Some of the outside entities that deal with REDD-plus
finance, such as the World Bank’s Forest Carbon Partnership
Facility, were set up so that they will recognize guidelines
from the UNFCCC when they come,” he said.  Many environmental groups also oppose the Coalition
proposal. Pipa Elias, a forest policy consultant at the Union of
Concerned Scientists, said existing institutions may play the
role of regulator.  “If guidance from the negotiations is strong enough, then
there’s no reason why existing institutions like the Green
Climate Fund or the Global Environment Facility can’t impact the
flow of finance to REDD-plus projects,” Elias said in an
interview in Warsaw Nov. 19. “Outside investors such as the
 World Bank  will be influenced if Parties agree on strong
governance within the UNFCCC.”  The Coalition proposal is less about governing the flow of
finance and more about efficiency in achieving emissions
reductions, Conrad says.  “We don’t want to govern the flow of finance,” he said.
“We just want to set up some place that will structure and co-ordinate the process to maximize emissions reductions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in Warsaw at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  