-- Raskin Says Treasury Agenda Aims to Make U.S. Growth ‘Durable’
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-11-20T15:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/raskin-says-treasury-agenda-aims-to-make-u-s-growth-durable-.html
Sarah Bloom Raskin , nominated to
become first female U.S. deputy  Treasury secretary , said the
department’s work on housing finance and financial regulation
will help underpin the country’s long-term economic prospects.  “We have the chance to make important long-term and
durable progress for the country,” Raskin said in prepared
remarks for a Senate Finance Committee  hearing  in  Washington 
today. “The government does not create wealth and prosperity
and innovation in our economy, but it does create the conditions
in which our people and businesses can, and therefore its role
is central and indispensable.”  If confirmed by the Senate, Raskin would become the
highest-ranking woman in the history of the department. She
would join the Treasury during the final stage of implementing
the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act and ahead of a looming budget and debt
ceiling battle. The previous deadlock led to a 16-day partial
government shutdown and brought the U.S. closer than a day from
exhausting its borrowing authority.  Raskin, a Federal Reserve governor, also mentioned
sanctions, trade agreements, and tax and entitlements as areas
where improvements can benefit the economy.  Raskin, 52, was  Maryland ’s top financial regulator from
2007 to 2010. Prior to that, she was a managing director at
Promontory Financial Group LLC, which advises banks. She started
at the Fed in October 2010, filling a term that expires in
January 2016.  Volcker Rule  During her tenure at the central bank, she advocated for a
strong Volcker rule, to ensure the ban on proprietary trading
doesn’t leave room for abuse. The Treasury, which coordinates
efforts of five U.S. regulatory agencies writing the
regulations, expects the rule to be published by the end of the
year, Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said yesterday.  The role of the deputy Treasury secretary has varied.
 Lawrence Summers , as deputy secretary in the late 1990s, was
instrumental in the U.S. response to the economic crises in  Asia 
and  Latin America , and used the job as a springboard to the
Treasury secretary job.  Mary Miller  is the acting deputy Treasury secretary after
Neal Wolin left at the beginning of September. Wolin was a key
negotiator with Congress on Dodd-Frank. Regulators are
implementing the law, and the Treasury is coordinating that work
among agencies including the Securities and Exchange Commission
and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  