-- RBS’s O’Donnell Sees 60 Percent Chance of Fed Tapering in March
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-11-20T09:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/rbs-s-o-donnell-sees-60-percent-chance-of-fed-tapering-in-march.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc .’s
 William O’Donnell , head of the lender’s U.S. treasury strategy,
said he sees a 60 percent chance that the  Federal Reserve  will
begin cutting its $85 billion monetary stimulus plan in March.  “We have never waivered from March being the earliest
window for tapering,” O’Donnell, also RBS’s co-head of markets
strategy for the Americas, said in an interview in Dubai
yesterday. A cut in the bond buying program won’t significantly
push up the benchmark U.S. interest rate, he said.  Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke said yesterday in a speech to
economists in  Washington  that the Fed will probably hold down
its target interest rate long after ending the monthly bond
buying, and possibly after unemployment falls below 6.5 percent.
Policy makers are debating how to slow the pace of asset
purchases without causing a surge in  interest rates  that could
jeopardize the more than four-year economic expansion.  Since lowering the benchmark interest rate to near zero in
December 2008, Fed officials have relied on bond buying and
forward guidance to try to spur growth. They’ve suggested
pushing back the timeline for rate increases, emphasizing they
won’t raise borrowing costs until inflation climbs, or lowering
the interest they pay on the cash that banks park at the central
bank as ways to add stimulus.  ‘Perniciously Low’  “In the backdrop of still perniciously low inflation, the
yield curve will act as a tether on long-end rates, through at
least 2014,”  Stamford , Connecticut-based O’Donnell said. “We
see relatively benign inflation, relatively benign growth.”  The Fed probably won’t taper purchases until its March
18-19 policy meeting, according to the median of 32 economist
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey Nov. 8.  The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee’s Sept. 18
decision not to taper monetary stimulus surprised investors. On
June 19, Bernanke said he might trim the pace of securities
purchases this year and halt them by mid-2014.  The yield difference between the two and 10-year Treasury
note is near a historical high and a rise in the 10-year
interest rate will require the yield curve to be at its steepest
in many decades, which is unlikely, O’Donnell said. He forecast
the 10-year yield to be at 2.8 percent to 2.85 percent by the
middle of next year and at around 3 percent by end-2014.  U.S. prices are accelerating at a 0.9 percent annual rate,
the personal-consumption-expenditures price index showed in
September, short of the Federal Reserve’s 2 percent goal.  U.S. economic growth will slow to 1.7 percent this year
from 2.8 percent in 2012, and then accelerate to 2.6 percent in
2014, according to the median estimate of 74 economists.  The Fed is buying $85 billion of mortgage-backed securities
and Treasuries each month as part of a plan to keep interest
rates low and spur growth. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
Treasury note climbed to as high as 2.99 percent on Sept. 5,
from 1.93 percent on May 21, after Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke 
fuelled expectations in May and June of the September cut. The
10-year note yield quoted at 2.72 percent today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  