-- Resona Seeks Myanmar Bank Ties as Japan Companies Enter Market
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2013-11-20T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/resona-seeks-myanmar-bank-ties-as-japan-companies-enter-market.html
Resona Holdings Inc. (8308) ,  Japan ’s fifth-biggest bank by market value, is seeking an alliance with a
financial institution in Myanmar as its corporate clients enter
the Southeast Asian nation.  The company sent an executive in charge of global
businesses to Myanmar last week to study the country, President
Kazuhiro Higashi, 56, said in an interview in  Tokyo  yesterday.  “I see more of our clients expanding into Myanmar as
infrastructure improves,” Higashi said. “The main reason why
they’re interested in the country is its low production costs.”  Resona would join its bigger rivals in tapping credit
demand from Myanmar as the government opens up its economy to
foreign investment following five decades of military rule. The
move gives Japan a chance to establish another low-cost
manufacturing base similar to that of Thailand, home to
factories of  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , Canon Inc. and Hitachi Ltd.  The bank is working with accounting and law firms in
Myanmar to learn how to help its Japanese customers enter the
market, according to Higashi. Without naming clients, he said
most that have already begun operating in the country of about
64 million people are companies in the  textile industry .  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , Japan’s second-largest bank by market value, set up a representative office for
its lending arm in Yangon in August 2012. Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. and Mizuho Financial Group Inc. opened
offices in the Myanmar capital earlier this year.  Orix Corp., Japan’s most acquisitive financial firm, said
in July that it’s working toward deals in countries including
Myanmar. Nissan received a license to build cars in the country
in September. ANA Holdings Inc., Japan’s biggest airline, said
in August it will buy a stake in a Myanmar carrier.  Closer Ties  Japan has sought closer ties since the 2010 election that
brought Myanmar President Thein Sein to power, hosting him in
Tokyo last year. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe traveled to the
Southeast Asian country in May in the first visit by a Japanese
leader for 36 years.  Shares of Resona fell 0.4 percent to 526 yen in Tokyo
yesterday, paring this year’s gain to 34 percent. The benchmark
 Topix Index (TPX)  slipped 0.3 percent and is up 43 percent in 2013.  Elsewhere in  Asia , Resona signed an agreement with  Public
Bank Bhd. (PBK) ,  Malaysia ’s third-biggest lender, in May to service
Japanese companies looking to enter the country and borrow in
the local currency. That marks the 11th partnership with local
banks in Asia for Resona, which doesn’t have banking licenses
outside Japan.  Resona doesn’t plan to buy stakes abroad until it completes
the repayment of a government bailout, Higashi said. The Tokyo-based bank, which received public funds in 2003 after capital
fell below requirements, plans to pay back the 772 billion-yen
($7.7 billion) balance by March 2018, earnings statements showed
last week.  Boost Loans  Higashi said in March that Resona plans to boost new loans
to Japanese businesses expanding in Asia by 25 percent to 50
billion yen within a year. The bank made new loans of about 20
billion yen in the six months ended Sept. 30, according to the
company.  Economic growth in developing Asia will accelerate to 6.5
percent next year from 6.3 percent in 2013, the  International
Monetary Fund  forecast last month, even as the U.S. considers
paring its monetary stimulus.  “Developing nations are said to have been doing poorly
since the issue came up that the U.S. may taper its stimulus
measures,” said Higashi. “But once you fly over to those
countries, you notice that that’s not true. They are vibrant,
and there are many Japanese companies seeking to increase
production capacity there, rather than at home.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  