-- Romanee-Conti, Zeng Fanzhi, Diamonds Boost Asia Auctions
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2013-11-21T14:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/romanee-conti-zeng-fanzhi-diamonds-boost-asia-auctions.html
Bottles of Romanee-Conti 1999, a
 Zeng Fanzhi  painting and a rare 1932 Leica camera are leading
lots in a six-day marathon in Hong Kong by six auction houses.  Christie’s International and Bonhams are joined by
 Sotheby’s (BID) , Zachys, Ravenel International Art Group, and Seoul
Auction in a series of sales through Nov. 26.  The mood among buyers may be buoyed by record-setting sales
of art in  New York  and diamonds in Geneva earlier this month.
Christie’s had its largest postwar and contemporary sale in New
York last week, earning $691.6 million and breaking records for
10 artists including  Francis Bacon , Willem de Kooning and  Jeff Koons .  “There’s a symptom of spending at the moment in the arts
and luxury areas,” said Jehan Chu, an adviser who runs
 Vermillion Art Collections  in  Hong Kong . “What we saw in the
New York auctions, some people say it’s hard to understand what
reality it’s based in. Will it spill over into Asia? Yes, there
will be spectacular prices for the best works.”  The series of Hong Kong auctions started with Bonhams’s
whisky and cognac sale today at the Island Shangri-La hotel, led
by a bottle of Macallan Lalique 60-year-old. The bottle sold for
HK$380,000 ($49,020) with fees, beating a hammer-price estimate
of as much as HK$250,000.  The highlight of Bonhams four-day sale is a Leica Luxus II
1932 with faux-lizard-skin cover and a crocodile camera case
carrying a high estimate of HK$9 million. It is one of only four
made, according to the auction company.  Latour Collection  Christie’s starts on Nov. 22 with a three-day wine sale,
led by a collection of 105 bottles of  Chateau Latour  spanning
three centuries with a presale high estimate of HK$3 million at
the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Center.  The company’s evening sale on Nov. 23 includes  oil
paintings  by Chinese contemporary stars Zhang Xiaogang and Yue Minjun, and 20th-century Chinese masters Zao Wou-Ki and Zhu Dequn, whose 1963 untitled abstract oil-on-canvas diptych
carries a high estimate of HK$40 million.  An oil-on-canvas “Hospital Triptych No. 3,” measuring 1.5
meters (5 feet) by 3.45 meters painted in 1992 by Zeng Fanzhi,
the world’s most expensive living Asian artist, is also in the
sale. Christie’s has not given an estimate for the work, which
carries a guarantee, and its international director of Asian
20th Century and Contemporary Art,  Eric Chang , declined to
provide one. A Hong Kong-based collector, who asked not to be
named, said Christie’s gave him a figure of HK$100 million.  Diamonds, Vase  Other highlights of Christie’s series of sales, estimated
to raise as much as HK$2 billion, include a diamond riviere
consisting of 52 diamonds with a combined weight of 104.84
carats with a high estimate of HK$72 million, and an apple-green
enameled “Dragon” lantern vase with a high estimate of HK$25
million.  Two Patek Philippe minute repeating perpetual calendar
tourbillon wristwatches, one platinum, the other 18 carat gold,
carry high estimates of HK$5 million.  Zachys of New York on Nov. 23 said it is featuring the
largest collection of Domaine de la Romanee-Conti wines ever
offered at auction  in a sale  at the Mandarin Oriental Hotel
estimated to fetch as much as HK$72 million.  On Nov. 24, Seoul Auction is holding its evening sale of
western modern and contemporary art, with works by  Marc Chagall ,
 Damien Hirst  and a 1982 oil-and-magna-on-canvas by  Roy Lichtenstein  titled “Tomato and Abstraction.”  Sotheby’s is holding an auction of Snuff Bottles from the
Mary and George Bloch Collection: Part VII at its One Pacific
Place gallery on Nov. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 