-- RSA CEO Sees Emerging Market Potential, Amid Asset Sale Talk
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-11-20T17:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/rsa-ceo-sees-emerging-market-potential-amid-asset-sale-talk.html
RSA Insurance Group Plc (RSA)  Chief
Executive Officer Simon Lee said the insurer has further growth
potential in  emerging markets  and maintains a “robust” capital
position, amid speculation it may sell assets.  Lee, who this month injected 100 million euros ($135
million) into RSA’s Irish unit and suspended three local
executives following an investigation into accounting practices,
said at a conference in London that insurers need to chose
markets that offer the best prospects for profitable growth.  Given the economic backdrop in Europe, “it’s only natural
that we continue to look further south and further east towards
some of the emerging markets,” he said at the Future of General
Insurance conference in London today. “Half of all general
insurance premiums growth is going to come in the next decade
from  Latin America  and emerging  Asia .”  RSA, Britain’s biggest non-life insurer, operates in 32
countries across Europe, Asia, Latin America,  Canada  and the
 Middle East  and has made more than 60 acquisitions in eight
years. The Financial Times reported last week that RSA is
considering selling some international units to bolster its
balance sheet, which may include its Latin American operations.  Speaking after the conference, Lee declined to comment on
the “media speculation” but reiterated that RSA’s economic
capital position is “robust.”  Credit Watch  Standard & Poor’s  cut RSA’s credit rating to A from A+ last
week and said it may downgrade further after the investigation
in Ireland prompted the insurer to say that it won’t meet its
profit targets twice in a week.  Sanford C. Bernstein yesterday said there was “plausible
risk” the company will be downgraded to A- within 90 days,
adding that management should strive to safeguard its rating
which could include disposing of “non-core” assets.  “RSA should sell parts or all of its Asian franchise,”
wrote London-based analyst Thomas Seidl in the note to clients,
with an outperform rating on the shares. “RSA could fetch at
least 100 to 200 million pounds for these assets and the
disposal would greatly simplify the group structure and reduce
required capital for premium written by these non-core
entities.”  Lee, 52, declined to comment on the analyst report today
and said he isn’t too concerned that there will be another
downgrade, adding that the company had operated with an A minus
rating in the past.  RSA’s shares have tumbled 19 percent this year, erasing
about 860 million pounds off its market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  