-- Rupert Murdoch, Wife Agree to Divorce Settlement in N.Y.
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-11-20T23:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/rupert-murdoch-agrees-to-divorce-settlement-with-wife-wendi-1-.html
Rupert Murdoch, chairman of  News
Corp. (NWSA) , agreed to a settlement that will complete a divorce from
his third wife, Wendi Deng Murdoch, after 14 years of marriage.  Rupert Murdoch, 82, who also serves as chief executive
officer of Twenty-First Century  Fox (FOXA)  Inc., filed for divorce in
June. The couple has a prenuptial agreement, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  Wendi Murdoch will keep the couple’s Fifth Avenue residence
in  New York  as part of the settlement, according to the person,
who requested anonymity because speaking publicly wasn’t
authorized. The couple has two daughters, Grace, 12, and Chloe,
10, who live in New York.  “We are pleased to announce that we have reached an
amicable settlement of all matters relating to our divorce,”
the couple said in a joint statement. “We move forward with
mutual respect and a shared interest in the health and happiness
of our two daughters. We will not comment on this any further.”  Rupert Murdoch  said in papers filed in New York State
Supreme Court in  Manhattan  that the relationship had “broken
down irretrievably.” The couple appeared before Justice Ellen
Gesmer in Manhattan today. They have 60 days to complete the
settlement or must return to court in January. Gesmer said she
didn’t anticipate that would be necessary.  Handshake, Embrace  “I’m glad you have been able to resolve these matters
amicably,” the judge said. No additional terms of the
settlement were revealed. The couple shook hands before the
hearing and briefly embraced afterward.  Wendi Murdoch, 37 years younger than her husband, made
headlines in 2011 for physically defending him when he gave
testimony at a Parliament hearing over a hacking scandal at his
U.K. newspapers. She lunged at a man who had tried to throw a
pie in Murdoch’s face.  The two were married in 1999, weeks after Rupert’s divorce
from his previous wife. His first marriage, to Patricia Booker,
ended in 1965. Two years later, he married a reporter at one of
his newspapers, Anna Torv, and had three children, Elisabeth,
Lachlan and James, all of whom have figured prominently at one
point in the workings of his company.  Murdoch’s net worth is $12.5 billion, making him the
world’s 89th-richest person, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index. Most of Murdoch’s wealth comes from his
family’s trust, in which all his children, including Grace and
Chloe, have an economic stake. The older children also have a
voting stake.  TV Executive  Wendi, 44, met Rupert when she was a junior executive at
his Star TV division in  Hong Kong . She attended  California State
University  at Northridge and graduated from Yale University’s
graduate business program before joining  News Corp .  Her interest in film led her to produce “Snow Flower and
the Secret Fan,” which was distributed by  Fox Searchlight
Pictures  in 2011. She is a trustee of the American Film
Institute and an investor in Artsy, a digital-arts startup,
according to the company’s website.  The settlement comes near the end of a troubling year for
Rupert Murdoch, following the split of News Corp. into two units
at the end of June amid a telephone-hacking scandal.  More than 100 journalists and public officials have been
arrested in investigations of News Corp. newspapers starting in
2011 that have produced allegations of phone hacking and
bribery. Murdoch shut down the News of the World in July 2011 in
a bid to defuse the scandal.  Shares of News Corp. rose 1.1 percent to $17.67 today in
New York. They have risen 12 percent since the split. Fox, which
has gained 16 percent since the division, was little changed at
$33.12.  The case is Murdoch v. Murdoch, 307226/2013, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York
at   elee310@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Nick Turner  at   nturner7@bloomberg.net . 