-- Russia Grants Bail to Captain of Greenpeace Arctic Protest Ship
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-11-20T13:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/russia-grants-bail-to-captain-of-greenpeace-arctic-protest-ship.html
A Russian court granted bail to the
captain of a Greenpeace ship that carried out a protest against
oil and gas drilling in the Arctic as more of the 30 people
detained over the incident were set to leave prison.  The captain of Arctic Sunrise, American Peter Wilcox became
the 15th to be granted bail, Greenpeace said in an e-mailed
statement. A Dutch national and a U.K. citizen were also offered
bail at court hearings in St. Petersburg today.  The environmental  organization  said it’s paying bail of 2
million rubles ($61,000) for each activist, and doesn’t expect
any of them to be released before the end of the week, according
to the statement. Wilcox was in charge of Greenpeace’s Rainbow
Warrior when it was sunk in Auckland in 1985 by a bomb planted
by the French intelligence service  Russia  has faced worldwide protests and a legal claim from
the Netherlands since it impounded Greenpeace’s ship and charged
the campaigners with piracy, which is punishable by as much as
15 years in prison. Prosecutors then cut the charges to
hooliganism, which carries a maximum sentence of seven years.  The legal moves have the potential to defuse a dispute that
has pitted the world’s biggest energy exporter against
 Greenpeace  after Russia detained 30 people for participating in
a protest at an OAO Gazprom offshore oil platform in September.
Russian authorities last week transferred 28 Greenpeace
activists and two journalists from 18 countries to St.
Petersburg from the port city of Murmansk, easing consular
access to them.  Judicial Change  Russian courts are softening their attitude to Greenpeace
protesters, President Vladimir Putin’s spokesman, Dmitry Peskov,
told reporters today in Moscow, declining to comment further.  Putin said in September that while the Greenpeace workers
“clearly” aren’t pirates, they violated international law by
trying to seize a drilling platform. The action alarmed Russian
officials, who couldn’t be certain who was trying to board the
rig, according to Putin.  The activists include citizens of the U.S.,  Finland ,
Argentina, Switzerland, the U.K., Australia, Brazil,  Canada ,
 Denmark , the Netherlands, New Zealand, Ukraine, Russia,  France ,
 Italy ,  Turkey , Poland and Sweden, according to Greenpeace.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  