-- Russian Investment Falls More Than Forecast as Joblessness Rises
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-11-20T14:05:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/russian-investment-falls-more-than-forecast-as-joblessness-rises.html
Russian investment fell more than
economists estimated and unemployment rose to a six-month high
as rising incomes helped shield consumer demand in October.  Fixed-capital investment shrank for a third month, falling
1.9 percent from a year earlier after a 1.6 percent drop in
September, with the jobless rate growing to 5.5 percent, the
Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said today in an e-mailed
statement. Economists forecast  unemployment  at 5.4 percent and
saw a 1 percent contraction in investment, according to the
median estimates in two Bloomberg surveys. Retail sales grew 3.5
percent from year earlier as real wages jumped 4.1 percent.  The world’s biggest energy exporter is struggling against
crosscurrents that have kept the economy from overcoming the
worst slowdown since a 2009 slump. Consumer spending, which
accounts for about half of the economy, is showing resilience as
investment weakens, with industrial production unexpectedly
 contracting  0.1 percent in October from a year earlier.  “The entire economy should become friendly toward projects
with a lengthy return on investment,” central bank Chairman
 Elvira Nabiullina  told lawmakers in Moscow today, adding that
growth of 1.5 percent to 2 percent is becoming the “new norm”
for  Russia . “This isn’t a short-term cyclical slowdown, caused
by the intensifying crisis on global markets. The slowdown is
structural in character, linked to the exhaustion of the
potential for a recovery.”  The Micex Index of 50 stocks retreated 0.3 percent to
1,506.16 at 6:02 p.m. in Moscow. The ruble depreciated 0.3
percent to 32.8370 against the dollar.  Wages, Incomes  Real disposable incomes surged 4.9 percent in October after
a revised 0.8 percent decline in the previous month, topping the
median estimate of seven economists in a Bloomberg survey was
for a 2 percent increase. Growth in retail sales exceeded
economist projections both on an annual and monthly basis.  “The positive retail sales reading is counterbalanced by a
negative surprise in industrial output data,” Tatiana Orlova,
senior economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London ,
said by e-mail. “Paradoxically, the retail sales could be
boosted by expectations of further ruble devaluation following
the ruble weakening this summer. The population doesn’t like to
hold on to a cheapening ruble.”  Gross domestic product grew less than estimated in the
third quarter, expanding 1.2 percent from a year earlier, the
same pace as in the previous three months.  Shrinking Share  Russia will see its share of global GDP eroded over the
next two decades as the economy expands more slowly than the
world average, according to Economy Minister  Alexei Ulyukayev .
Growth this year may miss the government’s 1.8 percent forecast
by as much as 0.3 percentage point, Ulyukayev said Nov. 13.  Persistent growth in consumer spending, the main driver of
economic growth is “the main guarantee that Russia will not
slip into recession,” Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist for
Russia at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Moscow, said by e-mail before today’s data release. “The financial health of the
Russian consumer remains relatively robust as strong real wage
growth suggests.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  