-- Russia Pulls Biggest Bank License of Year Over Dubious Transfers
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-11-20T08:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/russia-pulls-biggest-bank-license-of-year-over-dubious-transfers.html
Russia ’s central bank revoked the
license of OAO Master-Bank, a retail lender where President
 Vladimir Putin ’s cousin serves on the board, after accusing it
of repeatedly breaching money laundering laws.  The Moscow-based lender, the biggest to lose its license
this year, failed to comply with legislation, falsified
accounting and was “involved in major suspicious
transactions,” according to a central bank statement today.  Bank Rossii is striving to clear the market of banks
involved in dubious activities, seeking to curtail net capital
outflow, which is forecast at $55 billion this year. The
regulator is probing “many” banks and won’t ignore violations,
Chairman  Elvira Nabiullina  said in October.  “The process of cleaning up the banking system has
intensified under Nabiullina,” Natalia Berezina, a banking
analyst at UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow, said by phone. The
chairman started her term in June.  Master-Bank had negative capital of at least 2 billion
rubles ($61 million), Nabiullina told lawmakers today in the
State Duma, the lower house of parliament. The payout on insured
deposits will be less than 46 billion rubles, with distributions
no later than Dec. 4, she said. The preliminary estimate is 30
billion rubles, the Prime news service reported, citing the
Deposit Insurance Agency.  Dubious Transactions  Master-Bank is the 17th bank to lose its license since
Nabiullina took the helm at the regulator, raising the total
number of revocations to 23 this year, according to central bank
data. During 2012, 23 licenses were pulled.  Dubious transactions involving tax avoidance, theft of
budget funds, bribes and kickbacks,  money laundering , terrorism
financing and drug-related operations, accounted for $38 billion
of Russia’s $54 billion in net private capital outflow in 2012,
former central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said in June.  The lender is the biggest in Russia to have its license
revoked since Moscow-based  International Industrial Bank  in
October 2010, three months after the lender controlled by
lawmaker Sergei Pugachyov defaulted on foreign currency bonds,
according to UralSib’s Berezina. It was the 72nd largest Russian
bank by assets at the end of the third quarter, according to
data compiled by Interfax.  Master-Bank’s press service wasn’t available when Bloomberg
called the number on its website. The lender has more than 1,100
automated teller machines and 3.4 billion rubles in capital,
according to its website.  The lender hired Igor Putin, a cousin of the president, as
it sought to expand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  