-- SAC Manager Gained Edge With Illegal Tips, Jury Is Told
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-11-21T01:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/sac-manager-gained-edge-with-illegal-tips-jury-is-told.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP fund manager
Michael Steinberg reaped “big money” on illicit tips on Dell
Inc. and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  funneled to him by his analyst, Jon
Horvath, a prosecutor told a  Manhattan  federal jury.  After some of the information that Horvath provided
resulted in unprofitable trades, Steinberg summoned the analyst
to his desk in mid-2007 following a particularly large trading
loss and gave him an ultimatum, Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps said today in her opening statement.  “Michael Steinberg told Jon Horvath he needed to get ‘edgy
proprietary information’ -- the kind of information he could
make money on, the kind of information that would give him the
illegal edge he needed,” Apps said.  Steinberg, one of eight SAC employees to be charged with
insider trading by the U.S., is the first to go to trial. The
hedge fund owned by billionaire  Steven A. Cohen  agreed about two
weeks ago to plead guilty as part of a record $1.8 billion
settlement with the government over charges it fostered a
culture of rampant insider trading.  Apps said that Horvath, who pleaded guilty and agreed to
testify against Steinberg, was part of a chain of friends who
obtained revenue data about technology companies ahead of
earnings announcements and swapped the information with each
other and provided it to their friends and to the portfolio
managers they worked for.  ‘Stolen’ Information  “The defendant knew when he got his hands on that stolen
business information he chose to break the law,” Apps told
jurors. “Why? To make big money for himself and for the hedge
fund. That, ladies and gentlemen, is securities fraud and it’s a
serious crime.”  Steinberg’s defense lawyer, Barry Berke, told jurors in his
opening that in September 2012, Horvath was set to go to trial
for  insider trading  in the same stocks and decided instead to
implicate his former boss for crimes the analyst committed and
avoid going to prison.  “You will see that the reason that we are here is because
the government’s star witness, Jon Horvath, was trapped,” Berke
said.  Berke said at least three members of Horvath’s circle of
tipsters had pleaded guilty and were set to testify against him
when he decided to cooperate with the government and implicate
Steinberg.  “He wanted to avoid jail but he was too late, his circle
of friends had pleaded out,” Berke said. “He needed to point
the finger at somebody else to get a deal. He traded his freedom
for that of another. He chose his self-interest over the truth
and claimed Michael Steinberg was involved in his misdeeds.”  Securities Fraud  Steinberg, 41, who has pleaded not guilty, is the longest-serving SAC employee of those the U.S. has charged in its
insider-trading probe. He is charged with one count of
conspiracy and four counts of  securities fraud , for allegedly
engaging in the insider trading scheme that ran from late 2007
to 2009. Each count of securities fraud carries a prison term of
as long as 20 years in prison while conspiracy carries a five-year sentence.  The insider trading ring included Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis, a Level Global Investors LP analyst, Jesse Tortora, a
former Diamondback Capital Management LLC analyst and Danny Kuo,
a former analyst at Whittier Trust Co., Apps said.  Besides Horvath, at least five people, including Tortora
and Kuo, have pleaded guilty and agreed to cooperate with the
U.S. in the investigation. Tortora and Kuo will testify against
Steinberg, Apps said.  Phone Records  Apps told jurors the government’s case includes phone
records and e-mails that show the chain of tippers as the
nonpublic information passed from technology company insiders to
the analysts and finally to Steinberg.  The prosecutor described a sequence of events that she
alleged led to Steinberg making at least $1 million from illicit
trading in Dell in August 2008.  Horvath was vacationing in  Mexico  that month when Tortora
got news that Dell was going to miss earnings estimates, she
told the jury. Phone records show the two had an 11-minute
conversation on Aug. 18, she said.  Tortora provided Horvath with updated earnings information
about Dell, and records show that Horvath called Steinberg three
minutes later and had a conversation that lasted two minutes,
she said. One minute after that, Steinberg began shorting Dell
stock, she said.  “Keep on the down low,” Horvath said in an e-mail he sent
to Steinberg minutes after they concluded their call, Apps said.  Mexico Vacation  Days later, Horvath, who was still in Mexico, sent an e-mail to Steinberg and SAC fund manager Gabe Plotkin, describing
his reasoning on shorting Dell, according to Apps.  “I have a 2nd hand read from someone at the company,”
Horvath said in the Aug. 26 message, which provided details on
gross margins, expenditures and revenue. “Please keep to
yourself as obviously not well known.”  Steinberg replied, “Yes normally we would never divulge
data like this, so please be discreet. Thanks.”  Horvath also provided Steinberg with information he got
about Nvidia in May 2009 from his circle of friends that allowed
the manager to earn more than $400,000 from illegal trading,
Apps said.  The jury will hear Horvath describe his crimes and
conversations he had with Steinberg, including one in which
Steinberg coached him on what to say to the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  if he was ever questioned, Apps said.  ‘A Conversation’  “He will tell you about a conversation in which he told
him the information was coming from someone at the company,”
Apps said. “Afterward, Steinberg asked Horvath what he would
say to the FBI about Tortora and Dell if it came up,” she said.
“The defendant told him what he wanted him to say instead.”  Prosecutors said they will call Dan Berkowitz, SAC’s chief
financial officer, as their first witness and then Tortora. U.S.
District Court Judge Richard Sullivan, who is presiding over the
case, has told jurors that the trial should last about four
weeks.  The jury of nine women and three men includes two
accountants and a physical therapist.  SAC Indictment  Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara cited Horvath’s tips
in the July indictment of SAC that accused the firm of reaping
hundreds of millions of dollars in illicit profits in insider
trading that went back as far as 1999.  SAC, based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , agreed to close its
investment advisory business as part of the accord to end both
its prosecution and a money-laundering lawsuit filed by
Bharara’s office. The federal judge presiding over that case
hasn’t decided to accept the hedge fund’s guilty plea.  Two other fund managers who prosecutors said were also
recipients of the illegal tips -- Level Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson and ex-Diamondback Capital Management
LLC portfolio manager  Todd Newman  -- were convicted by a
Manhattan federal jury after a trial last year. Both men are
appealing their convictions and remain free as they challenge
the case.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC at Sard, Verbinnen
& Co., declined to comment on Steinberg’s case.  The case is U.S. v. Steinberg, 12-cr-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Federal Court in Manhattan at  pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  