-- Salesforce Revenue May Top Some Estimates on Marketing Tools
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-11-20T00:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/salesforce-revenue-may-top-some-estimates-on-marketing-tools-3-.html
Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , the biggest
maker of customer-management software, forecast fiscal fourth-quarter revenue that may exceed some analysts’ estimates as
acquisitions helped boost sales of marketing tools.  Sales in the period ending in January will be $1.12 billion
to $1.13 billion, the company said yesterday in a statement. On
average, analysts  projected  revenue of $1.12 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Profit before certain items will
be 5 cents to 6 cents a share, Salesforce said, compared with an
average prediction of 7 cents.  Chief Executive Officer  Marc Benioff , who is hosting the
company’s Dreamforce customer conference in  San Francisco  this
week, has spent more than $3 billion to  purchase  marketing-software companies, including ExactTarget Inc. for $2.42 billion
in July. Salesforce shares have surged 27 percent since its
prior earnings report in August on optimism the new products
would bolster revenue and bookings.  “It’s a good outlook,” said Israel Hernandez, an analyst
at MKM partners LLC, who has a buy rating on Salesforce. “The
stock has had a massive run this quarter and expectations were
running hot through this week because of Dreamforce.”  The shares  of Salesforce fell 5 percent to $52.74 at the
close in  New York . The stock is up 25 percent this year,
compared with an 18 percent  gain  in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Information Technology Index.  Customer Management  Salesforce competes with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and
 SAP AG (SAP)  in the $20.7 billion market for technology that lets
companies manage their customers, while adding  newer tools  for
marketing and client support.  Benioff told analysts in a conference call that he and Vice
Chairman Keith Block, the company’s recently hired head of sales
and a longtime Oracle executive, had refocused Salesforce on
cross-selling its products to buyers in sales, marketing and
customer service departments. Benioff had earlier marketed his
products as “ social enterprise ” tools for companies marketing
through Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc.  “It was a little tricky to find that buyer,” the CEO
said. “We got a lot more focused.”  In the third quarter, which ended Oct. 31, revenue rose 36
percent from a year earlier to $1.08 billion, topping analysts’
 average  estimate of $1.05 billion. Profit excluding some items
was 9 cents a share, matching the average projection.  The company’s  net loss , which included stock-based
compensation costs, amortization and interest expenses, narrowed
to $124.4 million, or 21 cents a share. The company is spending
heavily on sales and marketing, with those costs forming 54
percent of revenue in the quarter.  Sales for the next fiscal year, which ends in January 2015,
will be $5.15 billion to $5.2 billion, Salesforce said.  Mobile Software  Salesforce yesterday also unveiled an updated version of
its mobile software, seeking to ensure that clients and partners
can use more features of the company’s sales, marketing and
customer-service programs.  The new product, called Salesforce1, will make it easier
for businesses to customize Salesforce.com’s services for
smartphones and tablets, the San Francisco-based company said in
a statement yesterday. Applications developers will also get new
tools to tap into the platform.  Benioff said the company’s mobile applications are now
running the way he wants after the company revamped them several
times.  “I don’t use a laptop anymore,” he said. “I don’t even
use an iPad. I just use this iPhone 5 and I run the company from
that.”  Evernote, Dropbox  By tapping into Salesforce1, note-taking software maker
Evernote Corp., online-storage provider Dropbox Inc. and
professional network LinkedIn Corp. will also be able to ensure
that their content and services can be more readily viewed by
Salesforce.com users, Kendall Collins, executive vice president
of products, said in an interview.  “Salesforce1 will fundamentally replace all of our mobile
applications,” Collins said, adding that the tools will be
immediately available for Apple Inc.’s iOS and Google Inc.’s
Android mobile operating systems. “It effectively is now our
flagship mobile app.”  ‘Acquired Enough’  At a press conference today, Benioff said the company had
“acquired enough for now” and is focusing on selling to
specific industries to gain market share.  “We’ve really been tempering our desire to acquire,” he
said.  The CEO said he’s betting heavily on the success of
Salesforce1 for mobile devices and considered its predecessor,
Salesforce Touch, “a failed component of our strategy.”  Separately, Salesforce and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  announced a
partnership to let Salesforce’s largest customers buy additional
computing power for their software using Hewlett-Packard gear
and running inside Salesforce’s data centers.  Andrew Schmitt, a spokesman for Salesforce, also said the
company has acquired application development startup
Cloudconnect, whose website said Salesforce will use the
technology in conjunction with its Heroku programming tools.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  