-- Aberdeen Sees Sensex Earnings Slowdown on Polls: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-11-21T04:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/sensex-earnings-to-slow-on-vote-aberdeen-says-corporate-india.html
Profit growth at  Indian companies  is
set to slow from the fastest in six quarters as elections delay
projects and higher borrowing costs hurt economic expansion,
said Aberdeen Asset Management Plc and Bank of America Corp.  Net income at companies in the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex
index led by  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  and  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  rose 9.3 percent
in the three months to Sept. 30, the  best  since the quarter
through March 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Earnings growth for the year ending March 31, 2014 may slow to 8
percent, falling short of a previous estimate of 12.5 percent,
according to Bank of America.  National elections, due to be held by May, are prompting
companies to defer spending as they await the outcome, with
opinion polls predicting no majority for any single party.
Automakers and exporters of software and drugs led the jump in
earnings last quarter helped by the rupee’s plunge to a record
even as rising inflation and interest rates weighed on an
economy that expanded at the slowest pace since 2003.  “We are going to have at least a couple of rough quarters
to go,” Adrian Lim, a Singapore-based portfolio manager at
Aberdeen, said in an interview to Bloomberg TV  India  on Nov. 19.
“A lot of corporates have been holding back.” Aberdeen
oversees $322 billion worldwide.  Singh, Modi  Last month, a Times Now and C-voter survey found an
alliance led by the main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party  under
Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi will top Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s ruling coalition in the 2014 polls. Neither the
BJP nor Singh’s Congress will be in a position to form a
government on its own as both will fall short of a majority in
the 545-member lower house of parliament, the opinion poll
showed.  Modi is highlighting his record of governance and stronger-than-average economic growth in the state he has ruled since
2001 in an attempt to propel his party to national power.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., in a report this month, said investors
are hopeful Modi’s BJP will win national elections and mend the
$1.8 trillion economy.  Graft allegations, indecision, stalled legislation and the
risk of a sovereign credit downgrade by  Standard & Poor’s  have
marked Singh’s second term in office. HSBC Holdings Plc predicts
growth in  Asia ’s third-biggest  economy  may slow to 4 percent in
the year through March 2014 after a 5 percent expansion last
year.  ‘Most Important’  “The forthcoming Indian elections is going to be the most
important political event for investors in Asia next year,”
 Christopher Wood , chief equity strategist at CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets, told reporters in New Delhi on Nov. 18. “The
perception of investors is that the investment cycle in India is
partly driven by government policies and changes.”  Factory  output  grew an average of less than 1 percent in
2012 and 2013 even as consumer-price  inflation  has stayed around
10 percent since April 2012, the fastest in a basket of 17 Asia-Pacific economies tracked by Bloomberg. That prompted  Reserve
Bank  of India Governor Raghuram Rajan to raise the benchmark
 repurchase  rate twice in as many months to 7.75 percent.  A rebound in the local currency will damp inflation, while
the best monsoon rains in six years will increase farm income
and stimulate demand, helping revive the economy, said Deven Choksey, managing director of Mumbai-based K.R. Choksey Shares &
Securities Pvt.  Projects Cleared  “We have seen the worst of economic slowdown and corporate
earnings,” he said in an interview yesterday. “There will be
positive effect of rural demand due to a good monsoon. The
government’s efforts to kick start stalled projects can shore up
their report card before they go to the voters.”  Facing elections, Singh began policy changes last September
to spur investment. The steps included setting up a panel to
speed up stalled infrastructure plans. Projects worth 3.84
trillion rupees ($61 billion) have been cleared by the panel up
to Aug. 27, according to the government.  Choksey is advising investors to buy shares of lenders,
metal producers, capital goods companies that benefit from a
pick-up in economic growth. He remains positive on shares of
software exporters as a stronger demand in developed markets
offsets the impact of the currency.  Rupee Swings  The  Sensex (SENSEX)  has rallied 17 percent from this year’s low
reached in August to a record on Nov. 3 boosted by the second
biggest foreign inflows by overseas investors. Institutional
investors have bought $17 billion of local stocks this year, the
most in Asia after  Japan .  The rupee has gained 9.5 percent from a record-low of
68.845 a dollar touched on Aug. 28, paring the year’s loss to
12.5 percent. A weaker rupee increases the cost of imports such
as crude oil, fueling inflation, while increasing the value of
repatriated earnings of exporters. A falling currency also
limits the ability of the central bank to cut borrowing costs
and boost growth.  The average profit growth of the Sensex companies couldn’t
have exceeded analysts’ estimates had it not been for the
performance of the overseas units of Tata Steel and  Tata Motors
Ltd. (TTMT) , including Jaguar Land Rover, Bank of America analysts
Jyotivardhan Jaipuria and Anand Kumar wrote in a report dated
Nov. 19. Excluding the two units, Sensex earnings grew just 1.3
percent compared with 2 percent increase estimated by the
lender.  Unreliable Surveys  Indian elections are difficult to predict and a coalition
led by either the Congress party or BJP will form the
government, Taina Erajuuri, who helps manage more than 2 billion
euros ($2.7 billion) of assets at FIM Asset Management Ltd. in
Helsinki, said in an interview to Bloomberg TV India yesterday.
CLSA, in a presentation made in  New Delhi  on Nov. 18, said
though opinion polls are unreliable, the markets favor the main
opposition BJP over the Congress-led United Progressive
Alliance.  Modi’s alleged role and failure to control attacks on
Muslims during 2002 riots in Gujarat will deter potential
partners he may need to form a government, according to Nitish Kumar, chief minister of the eastern state of Bihar who broke
away from the BJP-led group in June. Modi has denied the
allegations.  In elections being held in five states through Dec. 4, an
opinion poll published by India Today and ORG this month showed
the BJP will retain two and win in two.  “One should not make too much of the second quarter
numbers,” Saurabh Mukherjea, the chief executive officer for
institutional equities at Ambit Capital Pvt. in Mumbai, said in
an interview with Bloomberg TV India on Nov. 18. “Expectations
were severely battered by the time we entered the season.
Underlying fundamentals have not yet shored up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  