-- Serbs Sign $716 Million Coal Plant, Mine Deal With CMEC
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-11-20T14:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/serbs-sign-716-million-coal-plant-mine-deal-with-cmec.html
China Machinery Engineering Corp. (1829) 
signed a $716 million deal to build Serbia’s first new coal-fired power plant unit in 23 years and expand a mine as the
Balkan state seeks to replace communist-era infrastructure.  The unit planned at Serbia’s Kostolac plant east of
Belgrade and the expansion of the Drmno open-pit lignite mine
will be 85 percent funded by the Export-Import Bank of  China ,
Dragan Jovanovic, general manager of Thermal Power Plants and
Mines Kostolac, said in Belgrade today.  “We expect parliamentary approval for the borrowing by the
end of the year,” so construction may start in early 2014 and
the Kostolac B3 unit may be commissioned in 2019, Energy
Minister Zorana Mihajlovic said.  Serbia , which has scaled back borrowing by unprofitable
state-owned companies, will offer Exim Bank a $608.2 million
guarantee to be included in the draft 2014 budget that lawmakers
are due to approve by mid-December. The 15-year loan has a 3
percent interest rate and a five-year grace period.  The Balkan European Union aspirant needs to add capacity to
replace aging thermal coal plants that don’t meet the bloc’s
standards and increase output to end costly winter electricity
imports.  Adding the 350 megawatt unit will help Kostolac owner
Elektroprivreda Srbije JP, the state-owned power company also
known as EPS, phase out part of its almost 5,000 megawatt
thermal-power capacity, some of which is more than 40 years old,
said EPS Chief Executive Officer Aleksandar Obradovic.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s largest maker of power transformers,
and  Germany ’s  Siemens AG (SIE) , will equip the new plant along with
Chinese manufacturers, CMEC president Zhang Chun said. CMEC is
already engaged in an overhaul of Kostolac’s B1 and B2 units
under a 2009 agreement between the governments based on a $344
million Exim Bank loan.  The Drmno coal field’s annual output capacity will grow to
12 million tons from 9 million tons, also with German mining
equipment, Jovanovic said, without giving details.  Serbia has sought financing for some of its infrastructure
projects from a $10 billion fund that China set up for 16
countries in central and eastern Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  