-- Shell, PetroChina Achieve Low-Cost Changbei Gas Output
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2013-11-22T11:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/shell-and-petrochina-reveal-cheap-gas-costs-at-changbei-field.html
(Corrects to remove 91 percent discount in first
paragraph; corrects lifting costs to Shell’s direct unit
operating cost and removes erroneous comparison to PetroChina
lifting costs in second paragraph; Shell corrects signing of
agreement to 1999 in paragraph eight; corrects size of Changbei
field in same paragraph.)  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s
largest oil company, said it’s achieving low direct unit
operating costs at the Changbei natural gas field that it’s
developing with  PetroChina Co. (857)   Shell’s direct unit operating costs, which it defines as
excluding  capital investment  and other indirect operational
costs, is about $1 per barrel of oil equivalent, or lower than
similar projects, said Xu Li, Shell’s general manager of the
field. He spoke to reporters at the unit’s headquarters on the
outskirts of Yulin on Nov. 19.  Shell is spending  $1 billion  in China this year and is
stepping up its investment in the nation’s unconventional
natural gas sector. China, the world’s largest energy consumer,
is seeking to lower its reliance on coal and replace it with
cleaner sources, such as gas.  “We have started to drill more test wells in the second
phase of development in the Changbei project, and we expect the
second phase to bring a significant amount of output,” in
addition to the first phase, Xu said. All output from Changbei
is sold to Beijing.  Shell, the operator of the project, will drill more wells
at different depths in the second phase. Test production from
the second phase could start in late 2014 or early 2015 based on
test results and government approvals, Xu said.  Capital Spending  The first phase of Changbei, which started output in 2007,
has annual production capacity of 3.3 billion cubic meters of
natural gas. That’s equal to 2.97 million barrels of oil
equivalent based on BP Plc’s gas to  oil conversion char t.  The field is a production-sharing venture between Shell and
PetroChina, both of which have refused to provide details of the
project stating the need to protect business secrets.  Shell and PetroChina signed the production-sharing
agreement in 1999 and it was amended in 2005 and 2012. The
Changbei project covers an area of 1,693 square kilometers (654
square miles) in northwest  China ’s Shaanxi Province and Inner
Mongolia Autonomous Region, according to Shell.  Shell “is investing $1 billion” in China on capital
expenditure in 2013, Li Lusha, Shell’s head of media relations
on China and North Asia, said in the same interview. Most of the
spending went to Shell’s shale gas exploration in Sichuan, and
the rest went to other projects including the Changbei project,
she said.  Shell and China National Petroleum Corp., Petrochina’s
state-owned parent, signed a product-sharing agreement in 2012
to explore and produce shale gas in an area covering about 3,500
square kilometers in southwest China’s Sichuan Province.  Shell is China’s biggest liquefied natural gas supplier,
importing around 5 million tons of the fuel to China a year
since 2010, according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  