-- Shift in Energy Investment Climate May Strand Assets: Bamsey
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-11-20T17:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/shift-in-energy-investment-climate-may-strand-assets-bamsey.html
Howard Bamsey, director-general of
the Global Green Growth Institute, an international organization
headquartered in  Seoul , comments on clean energy investments and
Warsaw climate talks in an interview Nov. 20.  Bamsey was in charge of negotiations over a successor to
the  Kyoto Protocol  from 2006 through 2007, and is a former
Australian special envoy on climate change.  On investment in clean energy:  “When it comes, the change will happen with a rush. If
investors get the future wrong, many of their assets will be
stranded. If you’re a one of the leaders in your economy, you
must be hedging your bets.”  “If we can show that you can make money by investing in
green growth, that will contribute to a change in direction of
investment. The whole story is about changing the direction of
investment.”  “Responding vigorously to climate change can be a pathway
to prosperity; it won’t be so for all countries in all
circumstances, but for some, if they choose investment
strategies wisely, sustainable development can be an accelerator
in lifting people out of poverty.”  On the atmosphere in the Warsaw talks:  “It’s not just more business-like; there seems to be a
greater sense that even though divisions between parties are
very wide, there is an almost universal sense of obligation to
bridge them.”  On the issue of loss and damage for the effects of  climate
change :  ‘Loss and damage is a difficult political question for the
moment. I think it’s going to be hard to get past.’’  “I think that for some countries, acknowledgement is more
important. If you see the whole issue as one of burden-sharing
between developed and developing countries, we’ll never get
there. Burden-sharing is valid, but it’s not the whole
solution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in Warsaw at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  