-- CapitaLand Raises A$426 Million From Australand Stake Sale
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-11-21T05:56:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/singapore-s-capitaland-raises-a-426-million-from-australand-sale.html
CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) , Southeast Asia’s
biggest developer, raised A$426.4 million ($398 million) by
selling a third of its 59 percent stake in  Australand Property
Group (ALZ)  at the bottom of its offer range.  CapitaLand sold 115.7 million shares, equal to about 20
percent of Australand’s outstanding securities, at A$3.685 each,
the company said in a stock-exchange filing today. The developer
had offered shares at A$3.685 to A$3.750 each, according to
transaction terms seen yesterday by Bloomberg News. Australand
shares fell 4 percent to A$3.60 at the close of Sydney trading.  The Singapore-based Capitaland will receive S$485.3 million
($389.2 million) from the sale,  which it will “deploy towards
new opportunities. The book-build process was underwritten by
Citigroup Inc.  ‘‘We are confident of the prospects of Australand as well
as the real-estate sector in  Australia ,’’ CapitaLand Chief
Executive Officer Lim Ming Yan said in a statement. ‘‘We are
comfortable with our remaining interest in Australand and it
will remain a key investment for us.’’  The Singapore developer this year carried out a review of
its businesses, which it concluded in July with a decision to
keep its stake in Sydney-based Australand. During the review,
several parties expressed an interest in all or part of
Australand’s business. The Australian developer said Nov. 19
that it expects impairments of about A$65 million in its
commercial and residential-development businesses.  GPT Group (GPT) , Australia’s third-biggest diversified property
trust by market capitalization, in December offered to buy
Australand’s commercial and development units. The company
dropped its pursuit in May after failing to agree on a price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  