-- Sony Said PlayStation 4 Units Reportedly Damaged in Shipping
-- B y   G r a c e   H u a n g   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-11-20T07:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/sony-said-playstation-4-units-reportedly-damaged-during-shipping.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  said some of the
PlayStation 4 consoles that went on sale in North America last
week were reportedly damaged during shipping, following customer
complaints the devices suddenly turned themselves off.  Sony sold more than 1 million PS4 consoles during the first
24 hours of sales. Some buyers reported the power-indicator
light kept blinking, there was no picture or sound coming from
their televisions, or the machine powered down on its own, the
company  said .  “There have been several issues reported, which leads us
to believe there isn’t a singular problem that could impact a
broader percentage of PS4 units,” Satoshi Nakajima, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Sony, said in an e-mail. “We also
understand that some units were reportedly damaged during
shipping.”  The malfunction rate for the machines is less than 1
percent, Nakajima said. Some customer comments posted on the
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  websites said the devices
didn’t work upon delivery. Sony shares fell 1 percent to 1,868
yen in Tokyo trading.  Amazon is working with Sony to assist the “small
percentage of customers who reported issues,” the company said
in a statement. The Seattle-based online retailer said it
shipped more PS4 devices than any other video-game console in
its history.  Best Buy  “We’ve worked hard to ensure all elements of our packaging
and supply chain delivery are of the highest possible
standards,” Amazon said in the statement. “We’ve used the same
tried-and-true processes implemented successfully with other
gaming consoles.”  Phone calls and an e-mail to Richfield, Minnesota-based
Best Buy’s public relations department outside office hours
weren’t answered.  The PS4 is the centerpiece of Sony Chief Executive Officer
Kazuo Hirai’s strategy to turn around the Japanese electronics
maker and film studio. Sony is competing for the attention of
game players against Microsoft Corp., which is releasing the
Xbox One on Nov. 22.  Sony priced its console at $399, or $100 less than the
Microsoft machine.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  