-- South African Rand Gains Most in a Month on Inflation
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-11-20T14:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/south-african-yields-fall-to-two-week-low-as-rand-gains-on-cpi.html
The rand advanced the most against
the dollar in almost a month and South African bonds gained
after the inflation rate in the continent’s biggest economy
slowed to the lowest since June.  Consumer-price  inflation  slowed to 5.5 percent last month
from 6 percent in September, the government’s statistics agency
said today. The median estimate of 23 economists in a Bloomberg
survey was 5.7 percent. The South African Reserve Bank will
leave its policy rate unchanged at 5 percent tomorrow, according
to all 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The CPI figure is bringing some positivity back into the
market” after a selloff yesterday on concern that a power
shortage will lead to blackouts, Thando Vokwana, a fixed-income
trader at FirstRand Ltd., said by phone from Johannesburg. With
the market pricing in an unchanged policy rate, “the focus
tomorrow will be on whether the Monetary Policy Committee
statement shifts from a hawkish tone to a more dovish tone.”  The rand gained 0.9 percent to 10.0955 per dollar by 4:04
p.m. in Johannesburg, the most on a closing basis since Oct. 22.
Yields on bonds due December 2026 dropped five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 8.13 percent.  The rand fell the most since Nov. 8 yesterday after Eskom
Holdings SOC Ltd., the state-owned electricity company, declared
a power emergency and asked its biggest customers to cut back
use by at least 10 percent to avoid blackouts.  ‘Stand Pat’  The inflation reading, “in combination with further
weakness on the growth front, favors a more dovish Reserve Bank
tone than was seen previously,” Manisha Morar, a Johannesburg-based analyst at ETM Analytics, said in a report. The central
bank “is likely to stand pat on policy given various
considerations including the recent breach of the inflation
target band, rand volatility and uncertainty regarding if and
when the  Federal Reserve  will taper stimulus.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the central
bank will probably hold down its target interest rate long after
ending $85 billion in monthly bond buying, and possibly after
unemployment falls below 6.5 percent.  Foreign investors  bought  a net 282 million rand ($28
million) of South African bonds yesterday, a third day of
inflows, trimming net sales this month to 6.94 billion rand,
according to JSE Ltd. data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  