-- South African Airways Delays Earnings Amid Funding Doubts
-- B y   A m o g e l a n g   M b a t h a
-- 2013-11-20T08:29:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/south-african-airways-delays-earnings-amid-funding-doubts.html
South African Airways , the
government-owned airline, missed an Aug. 31 deadline to submit
its annual financial report to parliament and hasn’t set a date
to release results for the year through March.  “We have written to the speaker of parliament to indicate
that South African Airways will submit its annual report late,”
Richard Mantu, spokesman for  South Africa ’s Department of Public
Enterprises, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. He didn’t
give reasons for the delay.  SAA reported a loss of 1.36 billion rand ($133 million) in
the year through March 2012 and is on its third chief executive
officer in a year. The airline is technically insolvent and will
probably need to request more financial support from the state
to survive, Johannesburg-based newspaper Beeld reported on Nov.
18, citing unidentified people. SAA’s fiscal 2013 loss was
almost 1.5 billion rand, Beeld said.  SAA is waiting for the Department of Public Enterprises to
set a date for its annual meeting, at which the timing for a
full-year earnings statement will probably be announced,
spokesman Tlali Tlali said by phone today. He declined to
comment on the reasons for the delays or on the Beeld report.  SAA CEO Monwabisi Kalawe said on Oct. 3 he anticipates
better financial results for the year through March 2013,
although SAA will continue to need state support over the next
four to five years. The company’s balance sheet is weak and its
cost position too high, Business Day newspaper said on Oct. 24,
citing Kalawe.  SAA is renewing its fleet as part of a turnaround strategy
aimed at returning to profitability by 2017. The government gave
the carrier,  Africa ’s biggest, a 5 billion-rand debt guarantee
in October 2012 to ensure it can borrow from financial markets
to support a recovery.  Kalawe has said the rand’s performance is important to the
state enterprise’s finances. The currency has fallen 17 percent
against the dollar this year, the worst performer of 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amogelang Mbatha in Johannesburg at 
 ambatha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Gordon Bell  at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net  