-- South Africa Reserve Bank’s Policy Options Remain Limited
-- B y   R e n e   V o l l g r a a f f   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-11-21T07:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/south-africa-reserve-bank-s-policy-options-remain-limited.html
The South African Reserve Bank is
running out of options to stimulate a sluggish economy as a
weaker rand this year keeps pressure on inflation.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor  Gill Marcus ,
will probably keep the benchmark interest rate unchanged at 5
percent today, according to all 22  economists  surveyed by
Bloomberg. Marcus is due to announce the decision at a press
conference that begins at about 3 p.m. in the capital,  Pretoria .  Marcus, 64, is facing conflicting policy choices after the
rand’s 17 percent slump against the dollar this year boosts
import costs of everything from oil to food. That’s limiting the
room policy makers have to spur  consumer spending  and growth in
 Africa ’s largest economy.  “The bank still sits with the same kind of pressures they
had last time, which is on the one hand a fairly weak economy,
which should argue for easing, yet there are inflation risks,”
Adenaan Hardien, chief economist at Cadiz Holdings Ltd. in Cape
Town, said in a phone interview yesterday.  Investors have scaled back bets of  interest-rate  increases
after the statistics office said yesterday  inflation  slowed to
5.5 percent in October from 6 percent in the previous month.
That was lower than the 5.7 percent median estimate of 23
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Forward-rate agreements starting in 12 months, used to lock
in borrowing costs in the period, fell 12 basis points yesterday
to 6.08 percent, the lowest since Oct. 31. The  yield  on one-year
interest rate swaps dropped eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage points, to 5.37 percent.  Flat Rates  The rand gained as much as 1.3 percent to 10.0520 against
the dollar yesterday and was trading at 10.1596 as of 9:36 a.m.
in Johannesburg.  While the improvement in inflation last month won’t change
the dilemma faced by the  Reserve Bank  “it certainly eases some
of the pressure on the bank,” Mohammed Nalla, head of strategic
research at Nedbank Group Ltd. said by phone from Johannesburg
yesterday. “Rates are likely to remain flat for an extended
period of time and the time frame for the eventual hike is
pushed out even further.”  Marcus said in September inflation will probably average
5.9 percent this year and 5.8 percent in 2014, close to the top
of the central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target band.  Policy makers are unlikely to use other tools at their
disposal -- such as boosting  money supply  or reducing commercial
banks’ cash limits -- to influence borrowing rates in the
economy, said Hardien.  ‘Blunt Instrument’  “The Reserve Bank has shown that it’s not really prepared
to consider quantitative measures, and the only other blunt
instrument is interest rates,” he said.  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  is forecasting economic
expansion of 2.1 percent this year compared with 2.5 percent in
2012 as export demand from  Europe  slowed and strikes from mining
to construction disrupted production. Statistics  South Africa 
will publish third-quarter gross domestic product data on Nov.
26.  While interest rate cuts may help to spur spending, the
Reserve Bank doesn’t have control over low consumer and business
sentiment, said Elize Kruger, an economist at Johannesburg-based
KADD Capital. The FNB/BER  consumer confidence  index stayed close
to a decade low of minus seven in the fourth quarter,  First
National Bank  said on Nov. 18.  Retail sales  growth slowed to 0.2
percent in September, the weakest expansion in four years, from
3.2 percent in the previous month, the statistics agency said on
Nov. 13.  “If a 50 basis point rate cut could have done it, the bank
would probably have tried it already,” Kruger said by phone
yesterday. “The government can do certain things, like
implementing capital projects which are already planned and by
spending capital budgets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rene Vollgraaff in Johannesburg at 
 rvollgraaff@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  