-- State Insurance Heads Snub Obama on Policy Cancellations
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-11-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/state-insurance-heads-snub-obama-on-policy-cancellations.html
Kansas, North Dakota and other state
insurance commissioners snubbed a meeting with President  Barack
Obama  set up to discuss allowing some people to keep medical
plans that don’t meet the requirements of the U.S. health law.  Six commissioners e-mailed their counterparts to say they
weren’t invited or wouldn’t attend yesterday’s meeting at the
White House because of reservations about the one-year reprieve
for substandard health plans. The Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act requires that all health plans next year
meet minimum rules for coverage.  The president offered a compromise last week after hundreds
of thousands of people began receiving cancellation notices from
their insurers and were told that new policies complying with
the law known as Obamacare would cost more. States, which
individually oversee insurance regulations, are divided on
whether to follow Obama’s request, a split they said undermined
the purpose of the meeting.  “Because the topic for the meeting (Affordable Care Act)
is so delicate and potentially divisive among the nation’s
insurance commissioners, a meaningful discussion between all the
commissioners needs to take place before a meeting with the
president,”  North Dakota  Insurance Commissioner Adam Hamm said
in an e-mail. “Unfortunately, that did not happen so I had to
respectfully decline to participate.”  The commissioners who attended the meeting in the Oval
Office said they conveyed the lack of consensus to the
president.  Different Views  “The president acknowledged our diversity at the state-based regulatory level and also acknowledged the complexity of
the issues that we’re dealing with and the change that he
suggested last week,” Louisiana Insurance Commissioner Jim Donelon, president of the  National Association of Insurance
Commissioners , said on a conference call yesterday after the 50-minute meeting. “We discussed all of those issues, pricing,
solvency, different state laws, and he acknowledged all of
that.”  Donelon said the association’s role isn’t to advocate for
or against implementation of the president’s policy.  Connecticut Insurance Commissioner Thomas Leonardi and
Wayne Goodwin, the commissioner in North Carolina, attended the
meeting as well as  Ben Nelson , the association’s chief executive
officer and a former U.S. senator from Nebraska, according to a
statement from the group.  U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius 
also was there.  Agreement Needed  Commissioners of six states -- North Dakota,  Montana ,
 Pennsylvania ,  Florida ,  New Hampshire  and Kansas -- wrote in a
letter to the association that they wouldn’t attend because they
want to see greater consensus.  “This meeting has not been discussed in any meaningful way
with the entire membership of the NAIC nor have we worked to
build consensus among the members on what our positions will be
in the meeting,” the six states wrote.  Kansas Insurance Commissioner  Sandy Praeger  didn’t attend
the meeting as she was working with insurers in her state to
determine how the fix might be implemented, Bob Hanson, a
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “Those business and regulatory discussions are keeping the
commissioner here in Kansas to make sure any details are
hammered out in the best interest of our citizens,” he said.  Opting Out  The $1.4 trillion Affordable Care Act sought to raise the
bar for the U.S. health system through provisions that included
mandating an end to discrimination against people with pre-existing health conditions and requiring all policies to meet
minimum coverage rules in return for an obligation that all
Americans obtain insurance or pay a fine.  Republican opponents of the law recently seized on reports
that hundreds of thousands of Americans got notices that their
existing plans had been canceled, contradicting Obama’s repeated
pledge that people who liked their existing coverage would be
able keep it.  The president’s new strategy protects insurance plans sold
to individuals in place in 2013 for as long as a year if state
officials approve. The fix exempts existing plans with renewal
dates as late as Oct. 1, 2014, extending non-compliance well
into 2015.  Washington state and  Massachusetts  have already opted out
while the heads of health exchanges in  California  and  New York 
have said Obama’s reprieve may jeopardize the “risk pool” of
patients needed to make the health law viable. Goodwin, of  North
Carolina , has called on companies not to cancel plans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  