-- Sugar Mills in India to Extend Shutdown on Record Cane Costs
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-11-21T04:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/sugar-mills-in-india-to-extend-shutdown-on-record-cane-costs.html
Sugar mills in  India ’s biggest
growing region will extend a shutdown to curb losses after the
government retained cane prices at a record high, potentially
curbing output in the world’s second-largest producer.  Factories will remain shut as the mills are unable to pay
growers the price set by the state, Uttar Pradesh Sugar Mills
Association President C.B. Patodia said yesterday in a phone
interview in New Delhi. Producers can only pay as much as 225
rupees ($3.60) per 100 kilograms (220 pounds), compared with the
state-set price of 280 rupees, he said.  The deadlock may delay cane crushing and reduce output from
the 25 million metric-ton Indian crop estimated by the Indian
Sugar Mills Association, Director General Abinash Verma said
yesterday in New Delhi.  Bajaj Hindusthan Ltd. (BJH) ,  Dhampur Sugar
Mills Ltd. (DSM) ,  Triveni (TRE)  Engineering & Industries Ltd. and other
producers in Uttar Pradesh, the nation’s biggest cane grower,
will stop crushing until the government fixed a viable cane
price, the companies said in separate exchange filings.  “Indian mills are caught between the rock and hard
place,” Michael McDougall, head of Brazil desk at Newedge Group
in New York, said in a phone interview yesterday. “It makes no
financial sense for the mills to carry out operations.
International prices are not helping either.”  Indian producers are reeling under a rule that allows
states to fix cane rates to help about 50 million farmers, a
powerful voting bloc, earn more. A smaller Indian crop may
reduce a global glut, potentially boosting futures traded in New
York that have plunged 51 percent from the 30-year high reached
in February 2011.  Price Slump  Local prices have tumbled to almost a 17-month low,
prompting factories in the top two states accounting for 62
percent of the nation’s output to sell below cost. Mills in
Uttar Pradesh owed farmers as much as 24 billion rupees for cane
supplied in the last season and that figure may rise to as much
as 130 billion rupees by April if they paid 280 rupees in
2013-2014, Verma said.  Sugar mills in Uttar Pradesh began to announce on Nov. 19
that they were shutting down over the cane price.  Bajaj, India’s biggest producer, reported a record loss in
the three months to Sept. 30, while  Balrampur Chini Mills Ltd. (BRCM) ,
the second-largest, posted its second straight quarterly loss.  It cost mills an average of 36 rupees to produce 1 kilogram
of sugar in Uttar Pradesh, while their average selling price at
the factory gate averaged about 31 rupees in 2012-2013,
according to the Indian Sugar Mills Association.  Stock Rally  Shares of sugar producers rallied for a second day in
Mumbai on speculation the government may take steps to stem
losses at mills and boost domestic prices. Bajaj climbed as much
as 3.7 percent 15.50 rupees, Dhampur jumped as much as 5.8
percent to 35.85 rupees, the highest price since Aug. 1, Triveni
rose as much as 3.8 percent to 15.15 rupees and Balrampur
advanced as much as 2.6 percent to 50.25 rupees.  The federal government expects the deadlock to end in the
next eight to 10 days and it is exploring four to five options,
Agriculture Minister Sharad Pawar told reporters in New Delhi
yesterday after the close of stock trading. He didn’t specify
what options were being considered.  “By keeping the same price for this year, the profit
margin of cane farmers will be either reduced or become
negative,” said Sudhir Panwar, president of growers group Kisan
Jagriti Sangathan in Lucknow. “Farmers in Uttar Pradesh will
cut cane planting and switch to other crops like basmati rice
next year. India will be in a sugar cycle again that warrants
imports after every two years of surpluses.”  Brazil  is the world’s largest sugar producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  