-- Sugar Output in India to Miss Forecast as Producers Shut Mills
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-11-20T08:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/sugar-output-in-india-to-miss-forecast-as-producers-shut-mills.html
Sugar output in  India , the world’s
second-largest producer, may be less than forecast after some
mills threatened to suspend crushing because of high cane
prices, the Indian Sugar Mills Association said.  Production will probably drop from a September estimate of
25 million metric tons in the year that started on Oct. 1,
Abinash Verma, director general of the millers’ group, said in a
interview by phone today.  Bajaj Hindusthan Ltd. (BJH) ,  Dhampur Sugar
Mills Ltd. (DSM) , Triveni Engineering & Industries Ltd. and other
producers in Uttar Pradesh, the nation’s biggest cane grower,
will shutdown mills until the government fixed a viable cane
price, the companies said in separate exchange filings.  “There may be a shortage and the country may need to
import sugar if suspension of operation at mills in Uttar
Pradesh continues,” said Verma. The state produced 7.48 million
tons of sugar, or about 30 percent of the nation’s output in
2012-2013, according to the group.  A smaller crop in India may reduce a global glut,
potentially boosting futures traded in  New York  that have
plunged 52 percent from the 30-year high reached in February
2011. Indian producers are reeling under a rule that allows
states to fix cane rates to help about 50 million farmers, a
powerful voting bloc, earn more.  Local prices have tumbled to almost 17-month low, prompting
factories in the top two states accounting for 62 percent of the
nation’s output to sell below cost. At current prices, mills in
 Uttar Pradesh  can only pay as high as 225 rupees per 100
kilograms (220 pounds) for cane, about 20 percent less than the
state-set price for the 2012-2013 season, Verma said. Mills in
Uttar Pradesh owed farmers as much as 24 billion rupees for
canes supplied in the last season, he said.  Record Loss  Bajaj, India’s biggest producer, reported a record loss in
the three months to Sept. 30, while  Balrampur Chini Mills Ltd. (BRCM) ,
the second-largest, posted its second straight quarterly loss.
Mills spent an average 36 rupees to make 1 kilogram of sugar in
Uttar Pradesh, while prices at the factory gate averaged about
31 rupees in 2012-2013, according to the association.  Shares of sugar producers rallied in Mumbai on speculation
that cane prices may be reduced. Bajaj Hindusthan surged as much
as 18.3 percent to 15.50 rupees, the most since Sept. 2, Dhampur
jumped by the daily limit of 20 percent to 34.20 rupees,  Triveni (TRE) 
climbed as much as 16.5 percent to 15.20 rupees and Balrampur
advanced as much as 15.4 percent to 51.45 rupees.  Price Speculation  “The market is expecting that sugar cane price may be
reduced in Uttar Pradesh, or recommendations of Rangarajan
committee will be adopted, which will be positive for the
millers,” said Sanjay Manyal, an analyst at ICICIdirect.com.
“A resolution to the issue has to be found.”  A panel headed by Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chief of the
Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, this year
recommended linking cane prices to 70 percent of the value of
sugar and by-products, while scrapping state controls on sale of
sugar in the local market.  “Farmers are ready to negotiate with mills and the
government to find a solution to the issue,” said Avadesh
Mishra, president of the Cane Committees’ Association in Uttar
Pradesh. “Mills should pay at least last year’s price to start
factories until the government announces rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  