-- Syd Field Gave Writers a Voice and Studios a Kit
-- B y   D a r n e l l   M a r t i n
-- 2013-11-20T20:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/syd-field-gave-writers-a-voice-and-studios-a-kit.html
“Syd Field  died  today,” I tell my
son.  “Who’s Syd Field?” he asks.  “He came up with a theory that there was a  formula  that
was used in every great screenplay, and if you followed that
formula, then you could write a good screenplay.”  “He made writing math?” My son squinched up his nose in
disgust. Writing is a pleasure for my son and math is not. And
there lies the rub with Syd Field.  Here is the  man  who put the first book of film anatomy on
the desks of every wannabe film maker. He showed us a different
way to look at page upon page of words and pick out the heart of
the movie. He diagramed the mystery of how its lifeblood flowed.
He showed us ways to dissect it on notecards, which could open
your mind to reassembling it.  Suddenly we screenwriters had tools -- corkboards, pushpins
and notecards to cover our walls -- writing for tactile
learners.  He started the conversation. Is there a formula -- a
science to a great story? Just as DaVinci tried to find symmetry
in his  Vitruvian Man , Field tried to reveal the symmetry in
story. It made some people angry. How could beauty and drama be
dissected and a beating heart torn from the living creature of
our dreams without killing it?  Field made a thousand writers sigh as they scrolled through
their screenplays with his book in hand, ecstatic if their plot
points and midpoints and midpoint twos were laying out properly.
Yet they were terrified that if they didn’t fall into the Syd
Field structure, studio executives might not understand their
films.  Studio Science  He had offered not only a tool for screenwriters but also a
tool for nervous studio executives whose jobs were continuously
on the line if they couldn’t produce a film that satisfied an
audience. If there was a true scientific way to judge a
screenplay other than just taste, it made the job a lot easier.  Have your studio execs study the Syd Field book and they’ll
be able to judge the blockbusters by just perusing a few crucial
pages. “What happens on page 30?” becomes the most important
question, not what your story is about. The question became:
“Will this screenplay work?”  Field, who made a thousand writers scream, “Damn your
formula! I just need a pencil and my imagination.”  But the body of the screenplay had already been laid out
and etherized upon the table for other story scientists such as
Robert McKee, Blake Snyder and Linda Seger to probe at with
their scalpels and write their own anatomy of a screenplay.  But Syd Field’s name alone will remain iconic --
remembering those early days of film school, that book on every
film student’s desk, shelf, bed. Reading the pages out loud to
one another, underlining, drawing diagrams on the back cover.  And then wrestling through sleepless nights with my first
 feature , “I Like It Like That.” Just as I had given up all
hope of making that  film  work, my New York University professor
said unto me, “Take up Syd’s book and eat it up; and it shall
make thy belly bitter, but it shall be in thy mouth sweet as
honey.”  Yes, Syd, the formula to me is bitter, but I remember the
honey.  “How important is the scene in screenwriting? It is the
cell that holds everything together. It serves two functions --
either it moves the story forward or it reveals character. If it
does not serve either of those two functions, cut it!” -- Syd
Field.  “Write from your heart and don’t be afraid” to write bad
pages -- Syd Field, who employed some more colorful language.  Those two quotes inspired me and gave me the strength to
always keep writing.  I go to my bookshelves to look over the notes and bent
pages in that battle-worn book from the trenches of NYU’s film
school. But it’s gone, given to some aspiring young writer
decades ago. That’s what you do with books that change the way
you think. You keep them moving. Whether you believe in Field’s
three-act structure or a four- or five-act structure isn’t
relevant to appreciate what he did for young writers.  Thanks, Syd.  ( Darnell Martin  is the writer and director of “I Like It
Like That” and “ Cadillac Records .”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Darnell Martin at  darnellmv@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: 