-- U.K. Joins U.S. Pledge to Stop Funding Foreign Coal-Power Plants
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-11-20T16:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/u-k-joins-u-s-pledge-to-stop-funding-foreign-coal-power-plants.html
The U.K. joined a U.S. commitment to
minimize funding of foreign coal-fired power stations as they
seek to curb use of a fuel that spews twice the levels of
greenhouse emissions as burning natural gas.  “We will work to get support of more countries and the
multilateral development banks,” U.K. Energy Secretary Edward Davey said in Warsaw, where delegates from about 190 countries
met for United Nations climate talks. Funding for coal would be
allowed under the “rare circumstances” when alternatives
aren’t available and there’s a case for reducing poverty.  Reliance on coal moved into focus at the talks after a UN
report indicated that humans already burned more than half the
amount of fossil fuels that could lead to dangerous changes in
the climate. Coal generated 30.3 percent of the world’s primary
energy in 2011, the highest level since 1969, according to the
World Coal Association. It slipped to 29.9 percent last year.  Christiana Figueres , the UN’s top climate official, on Nov.
18 urged coal executives in Warsaw to help reduce global warming
by leaving most of the fuel in the ground and closing the least
efficient  power plants . The World Bank and  European Investment
Bank  are also involved in the push against coal finance.  “Now the Japanese and Germans need to follow suit,” Jake Schmidt, the Washington-based director of climate policy at the
 Natural Resources Defense Council , said after the announcement
by Britain. “It is way past time that we stop funding dirty
energy and turn those resources towards clean energy.”  Coal Mining  Britain still provides funds for coal mining, Schmidt said.  The U.K. has provided about $100 million in export finance
for foreign coal mines since 2007, according to research by the
Council. In addition, the country’s share of financing for
development lenders such as the  World Bank  accounts for a
further $427 million for the industry, Schmidt said.  “The U.K.’s agreement to end support for public financing
of new coal-fired power plants overseas is a rare glimmer of the
long-term ambition and understanding of the shifts needed to a
low carbon economy,” Jonathan Grant, sustainability and climate
change director at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, said in an e-mailed statement.  U.S. Special Envoy for Climate change Todd Stern told
reporters he “commended” the U.K. on its announcement.  “This is a policy that the U.S. announced as part of the
president’s climate action plan in June,” Stern said. “The
Nordic governments joined us in that effort this fall.”  The UN talks are due to end on Nov. 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Warsaw at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in Warsaw at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  