-- U.K. Wind Gets Less Aid Than Coal, Gas for Regulating Supply
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-11-20T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/u-k-wind-gets-less-aid-than-coal-gas-for-regulating-supply.html
Payments to stop U.K. wind farms
overloading the grid accounted for 4 percent of the sum handed
to all power suppliers while traditional generators such as
coal-fired plants got most of the money.  Wind farms received 7.6 million pounds ($12.2 million) of
the 170 million-pound cost including payments to generators to
balance the country’s demand and supply in financial year 2012
to 2013,  National Grid Plc (NG/)  data show. The money compensates
generators including SSE Plc and  Electricite de France SA (EDF)  for
shutting down wind output in strong gusts and boosting
production from gas and coal plants when supply is tight.  Aid to wind farms has come under fire from opponents of the
energy source, who say consumers are being forced to pay for a
technology that’s both inefficient and a blot on the British
countryside. The cost of balancing power to the grid, of which
constraint payments are a small share, adds 2 percent to
household energy bills, the data show.  Constraint payments to wind farms declined from 34 million
pounds in 2011-2012 when they amounted to 10 percent of overall
payments, the data show. The National Grid said they couldn’t
provide a breakdown of the other recipients, while most
constraint costs relate to fossil-fuel generators, according to
the Department of Energy &  Climate Change .  “The number and relative value of constraint payments made
to wind farms is small compared to the overall constraint
payments,” National Grid said by e-mail in response to
questions from  Bloomberg News .  Payments also go to fossil-fuel plants, pumped storage and
interconnectors. Conventional generators are sometimes required
to pay National Grid when they reduce power supply, and the net
figure for total constraint payments reflects those
contributions.  High Gusts  “It’s important to set these payments in their proper
context,” said Jennifer Webber, director of external affairs at
industry group RenewableUK. “Maintaining a steady supply of
electricity to ensure our homes are heated, and that the lights
stay on, costs money as National Grid has to balance the supply
constantly.”  During high gusts, National Grid may ask wind farms to stop
output to prevent overloading the grid. It pays farms to
compensate for lost revenue such as subsidies called renewable
obligation certificates.  “Our argument is that the prices are often far in excess
of the wind farm’s lost subsidy income,” said John Constable,
director at the Renewable Energy Foundation, a sustainable
development charity that is critical of U.K. wind-energy policy.
Wind farms can “simply name their price” when asked to shut
down, he said by phone.  ‘Excessive Benefits’  National Grid’s overall constraint costs have risen as more
renewables, promoted by Britain to reduce emissions, connected
to networks before upgrades were finished, Chris Lock, a
spokesman at regulator Ofgem said by e-mail.  The regulator can take action against generators that gain
“excessive benefits,” he said. “We are watching the market
very closely and if there are grounds to investigate the
behavior of licensed generators, then we will.”  EDF received about 3 million pounds since April 29 to shut
down its Fallago Rig wind farm in  Scotland . The company said by
e-mail all generators have agreements with National Grid that
include instructions to decrease power.  SSE received 4.2 million pounds to switch off its Clyde
venture this year, REF data show.  The Carraig Gheal plant operated by GreenPower
(International) Ltd. of Scotland bid an average 198 pounds since
July to shut off supply to the grid, about five times the
onshore wind subsidy of 0.9 of a  ROC  per megawatt-hour, REF data
show.  Rob Forrest, chief executive officer, said by e-mail the
rate was set when construction wasn’t complete and turbines were
being tested. Interrupting output when turbines are being
commissioned or tested can hurt future operation. “Now that all
the turbines have been taken over from the contractor and are
under the full control of the owner the charge has been
reduced,” he said. The current bid is 97 pounds.  SOURCE: National Grid, figures as of Aug. 2013  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  