-- S&P 500 Slumps as Fed Considers Reducing Bond Purchases
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-11-20T21:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/u-s-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed-before-fed.html
U.S. stocks  dropped, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a third day of losses, after
minutes from the  Federal Reserve  signaled the central bank may
reduce bond purchases in the coming months.  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  jumped 8.4 percent as its sales decline
abated in the third quarter.  Yahoo (YHOO) ! Inc. advanced 2.9 percent
after the owner of the largest U.S. Internet portal boosted its
stock-buyback plan by $5 billion.  Deere & Co. (DE)  rose 2.1 percent
as it forecast better-than-estimated annual earnings on rising
demand for construction and forestry machinery.  Lowe’s (LOW)  Cos., the
second-biggest home improvement retailer, slipped 6.2 percent
after profit trailed analysts’ projections.  The  S&P 500  fell 0.4 percent to 1,781.37 at 4 p.m. in New
York. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  retreated 0.4 percent to
15,900.82 and has topped 16,000 for three straight days before
returning below the threshold. About 5.9 billion shares changed
hands on U.S. exchanges, in line with the three-month average.  “We’ve also had a very, very good year, so this may be a
decision-making point for those who have enjoyed a very good
return in the equity market,” Paul Mangus, head of equity
strategy and research for Wells Fargo Private Bank in Charlotte,
 North Carolina , said in a phone interview. His firm manages $170
billion. “The minutes were a continuation of what the FOMC has
been saying all along.”  The S&P 500 has rallied 25 percent in 2013, poised for its
best year in a decade, following stimulus from the Fed and
better-than-estimated earnings. The gauge traded for about 17
times its companies’ reported earnings at its last record on
Nov. 15, the highest valuation since May 2010.  Tapering Decision  Policy makers expected that the economic data will show
ongoing improvement in the labor market and “thus warrant
trimming the pace of purchases in coming months,” according to
the record of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Oct. 29-30
gathering. Stocks pared gains earlier as Fed Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said a reduction in bond buying is “on
the table” for the next policy meeting in December.  As of yesterday, four of five investors expected the Fed to
delay a decision to begin reducing its bond buying until March
2014 or later, with just 5 percent looking for a move next
month, according to the latest Bloomberg Global Poll. Only one
in 20 said the central bank will begin to reduce its purchases
at its Dec. 17-18 meeting, according to the poll yesterday of
investors, traders and analysts who are Bloomberg subscribers.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Volatility Index (VIX) , the
gauge of S&P 500 options known as the VIX, was little changed at
13.40 today. The measure is down 26 percent this year.  Penney, Yahoo  J.C. Penney jumped 8.4 percent to $9.44. Chief Executive
Officer Mike Ullman showed progress in reviving the department-store chain ahead of the holiday-shopping season. Revenue in the
quarter ended Nov. 2 fell 5.1 percent to $2.78 billion, less
than the 27 percent drop in the same period last year. Gross
margin, or the percentage of sales left after the cost of goods
sold, will improve in the fourth quarter, J.C. Penney said.  Yahoo advanced 2.9 percent to $35.62. The company is
returning more cash to shareholders as Chief Executive Officer
 Marissa Mayer  seeks to revive growth. The company will also sell
$1 billion in convertible debt maturing in 2018, in a private
placement, according to a statement.  Deere climbed 2.1 percent to $84.52. The company said it
sees sales of construction and forestry equipment advancing by
about 10 percent in the current financial year, partly because
of the recovery in the  U.S. economy  and an increase in housing
starts.  Lowes, Smucker  Herbalife Ltd. gained 6.5 percent to $70.24. Bill Stiritz,
chief executive officer of Post Holdings Inc., the Raisin Bran
maker, boosted his holding in Herbalife to 6.4 percent and said
he’ll seek talks with the nutrition company.  Stiritz, who previously reported a 5.3 percent stake, said
last week that he’s willing to take part in a leveraged buyout
of the company that would reward shareholders and help Herbalife
fend off allegations by hedge fund billionaire  Bill Ackman , who
for a year has accused it of operating an illegal pyramid
scheme.  BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc. (BMRN)  jumped 3.3 percent to $69.14.
The company yesterday received the backing of advisers to the
 Food and Drug Administration  for a drug treating a rare
metabolic disease that can affect growth. Vimizim should be
approved for Moriquio A syndrome, which can cause joint
deformities and contractures, a panel of advisers to FDA voted.  Lowe’s fell 6.2 percent to $47.33. Third-quarter earnings-per-share amounted to 47 cents, falling short of the 48 cents
analysts had projected. The company also predicted full-year
profit will be $2.15 a share, compared with the $2.19 analysts
estimated.  J.M. Smucker Co. slid 6.5 percent to $101.49 for the
biggest decline in the  S&P 500. (SPX)  The maker of peanut butter and
fruit spreads cut its sales forecast and said price reductions
are hurting margins.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in New York at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  