-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Nov. 15 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2013-11-20T15:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-nov-15-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged over 15.4 million
barrels per day during the week ending November 15, 2013, 36
thousand barrels per day higher than the previous week’s
average. Refineries operated at 88.6% of their operable capacity
last week. Gasoline production decreased last week, averaging
9.3 million barrels per day. Distillate fuel production
decreased last week, averaging 4.9 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged about 7.9 million barrels per
day last week, up by 19 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports
averaged 7.6 million barrels per day, 3.7% below the same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline imports (including
both finished gasoline and gasoline blending components) last
week averaged 451 thousand barrels per day. Distillate fuel
imports averaged 97 thousand barrels per day last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 0.4 million barrels
from the previous week. At 388.5 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are well above the upper limit of the average range
for this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories
decreased by 0.3 million barrels last week, but are near the
upper limit of the average range. Finished gasoline inventories
increased while blending components inventories decreased last
week. Distillate fuel inventories decreased by 4.8 million
barrels last week and are near the lower limit of the average
range for this time of year. Propane/propylene inventories fell
2.4 million barrels last week and are below the lower limit of
the average range. Total commercial petroleum inventories
decreased by 11.7 million barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period averaged
20.3 million barrels per day, up by 7.4% from the same period
last year. Over the last four weeks, motor gasoline product
supplied averaged 9.1 million barrels per day, up by 3.8% from
the same period last year. Distillate fuel product supplied
averaged 4.2 million barrels per day over the last four weeks,
up by 8.8% from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is up 7.8% compared to the same four-week period last
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  