-- Ukraine’s SCM Sees Markets Improve for Metal, Mining in 2014
-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2013-11-20T13:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/ukraine-s-scm-sees-markets-improve-for-metal-mining-in-2014.html
System Capital Management JSC, a
Ukrainian company whose activities include metals, mining, and
machine building, will benefit from “favorable” global
economic growth, said the head of  investor relations .  SCM, owned by the former former Soviet republic’s country’s
richest man,  Rinat Akhmetov , will sell more of its steel, energy
output and mining machines abroad in 2014 as  Europe  and the U.S.
solidify their recoveries and  China’s economy  will expand about
7.5 percent, said IR Director Jock Mendoza Wilson in a Kiev
interview on Nov. 12.  “The environment we might expect to see externally in 2014
is actually likely to be a little bit more favorable,” compared
with the two preceding years, Mendoza Wilson said.  Ukraine’s economy entered its third recession since 2008 in
the previous quarter as global demand for its products, mainly
metals and chemicals, declined. Industrial production fell 4.7
percent in October from a year before, the statistics office
said on Nov. 18.  The Donetsk, Ukraine-based SCM controls more than 100
companies in metals and mining, energy production, machine
building, banking, communications and other areas. Its main
exports are steel, electricity and mining machines.  Metinvest, the metals and mining division of SCM, reported
crude steel output in the first half of this year dropped 8
percent to 6.2 million tons.  SCM’s energy units will see an increase in production as
its metals and mining units increase capacity and modernize
factories, Mendoza Wilson said.  Fitch on Nov. 13 downgraded 11 Ukrainian companies,
including DTEK and Metinvest, following a cut in the nation’s
sovereign ratings to six levels below investment grade. It cited
weaker economy growth and a “deteriorating business
environment” that may affect companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  