-- Hungary Fines 11 Banks $43 Million After Cartel Probe
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-11-20T12:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/hungary-fines-11-banks-43-million-after-cartel-probe.html
Hungary fined 11 banks for what it
said amounted to illegal collusion two years ago against a
government program that imposed costs on lenders by allowing the
repayment of foreign-currency loans at below-market rates.  The competition authority, known as GVH, levied a fine of
9.5 billion forint ($43 million), including 3.9 billion forint
on OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, and 1.7 billion
forint on the unit of  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , the second biggest in
the country. The banks cooperated between September 2011 and
January 2012 to limit the forint-based home loans available to
replace Swiss franc or euro debt, GVH said in an e-mail.  The ruling is “unfounded,” OTP said in a statement to the
Budapest bourse, adding that it will use the “available
opportunities for legal redress.” Erste didn’t coordinate its
strategy with other lenders and will make a decision on possible
legal steps later, the bank said in an e-mailed statement today.  Hungarians have struggled with mortgages borrowed in
foreign currencies since the forint plunged during the economic
crisis. The country lost its investment-grade credit rating and
OTP’s shares fell 36 percent in 2011 after the government
introduced the loan repayment program and levied special taxes
on banks. Prime Minister Viktor Orban, facing 2014 elections,
has promised to phase out remaining non-forint mortgages and
lower monthly payments.  “I don’t remember a fine this large,” Attila Gyurcsik, a
Budapest-based analyst at Concorde Ertekpapir Zrt.,  Hungary ’s
biggest broker said by phone. “This could be symbolic.”  OTP Drops  OTP’s shares dropped 0.9 percent to 4,372 forint by 1:09
p.m. in Budapest, paring its advance this year to 5.3 percent.
The benchmark BUX stock  index , in which OTP accounts for a third
of the weightings, dropped 1 percent today.  The GVH also fined Takarekbank, a savings bank in which the
state acquired a majority stake this year; Budapest Bank, a unit
of  General Electric (GE)  Capital Corp.; CIB Bank, a unit of  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ; MKB Bank, which belongs to Bayerische Landesbank;
K&H Bank, a unit of  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ; UCB, a unit of  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) 
and the local units of Citigroup Inc.,  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI)  and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   Banks in Hungary lost $1.7 billion during the 2011 program
that allowed the early repayment of foreign-currency household
mortgages at below-market exchange rates in a lump sum. More
than 156,000 borrowers repaid their loans under that program.  The banks exchanged “business secrets” as they
coordinated with each other to curb the repayments, the GVH
said.  The government wants Hungary’s Supreme Court, known as
Kuria, to issue guidelines to streamline “contradictory”
rulings related to foreign-currency loans, to help prevent
lenders from challenging further aid measures planned for
borrowers, government spokesman Andras Giro-Szasz said in an
interview on M1 television two days ago.  The cabinet has also expanded a separate program that
temporarily allows paying installments at fixed rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  