-- Unilever Joins Norway, U.K., U.S. in $280 Mln Forest Plan
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-11-20T12:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/unilever-joins-norway-u-k-u-s-in-280-mln-forest-plan.html
Norway, the U.K. and U.S. pledged
$280 million to protect forests in developing nations in
collaboration with Unilever NV, Bunge Ltd. and Mondelez
International Inc.  The cash will flow through the  World Bank ’s BioCarbon Fund
Initiative, a 10-year-old program that until now has focused on
small-scale projects, Per Fredrik Pharo, director of Norway’s
Climate and Forest Initiative, said in an interview at the
United Nations climate talks in Warsaw, where the announcement
was made. The plan is to cover areas the size of small
countries, he said.  Conserving forests is an important part of the  UN climate
talks  because deforestation and changes in land use account for
about 17 percent of global emissions of heat-trapping gases.
Envoys from some 190 nations are working to devise by 2015 a new
agreement to fight global warming that would include forest
protection.  “Our global forests are the lungs of the world, and
protecting them is fundamental for our survival,” U.K.
Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change Ed Davey said
in an e-mailed statement. “When we hand these forests over to
future generations, we must be able to say we exercised our
stewardship wisely and responsibly.”  Norway  will provide as much as $135 million for the
program. The U.K. is contributing $120 million, and the U.S. is
putting in $25 million. While locations have yet to be chosen,
regions will have an added incentive to sign up to the program.
Along with the funding from governments, companies such as
Unilever, Mondelez and Bunge that are seeking sustainably
produced commodities, would join in.  ‘Incentive’  “That’s an additional incentive for a jurisdiction,
because they would have predictable long-term demand from
serious buyers,” Pharo said. “These are all companies that
have pledges to eliminate deforestation from their supply chains
by 2020. To do that, they need deforestation-free jurisdictions
to source from.”  The companies are seeking commodities such as  palm oil ,
cocoa, pulp and paper, soy, sugar and beef, according to Pharo.
The funding will help create an “enabling environment” to set
up appropriate rules for land tenure, planning and monitoring,
he said.  “If this concept is successful, it’s certainly one we
would want to invest more in and I suspect the others too,”
Pharo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in Warsaw at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  