-- Venezuela’s Maduro Secures Powers to Rule Without Congress
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-11-20T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/venezuela-s-maduro-secures-powers-to-rule-without-congress.html
Venezuela’s President  Nicolas Maduro 
received authority to pass economic laws without congressional
approval, a move the opposition says will increase the
harassment of businesses and attacks on political rivals ahead
of local elections.  The national assembly approved yesterday the so-called
enabling law by a three-fifths majority, granting Maduro the
power for one year to enact laws, such as limits on profits,
without the oversight of congress.  “We reduced prices to keep them down and with the enabling
law, I’ll keep them where they need to be,” Maduro said
yesterday on state television in front of a crowd of supporters
outside the presidential palace in Caracas. “I also requested
this enabling law for a hair-raising offensive against
corruption starting in January.”  Maduro acquired for the first time the same power his late
predecessor  Hugo Chavez  relied on for a third of his 14 years in
office to nationalize companies, create taxes and increase labor
rights. Maduro said he will use decrees to protect the people
from the “parasitic bourgeoisie,” which he accuses of hoarding
goods and overcharging customers. He will pass populist measures
to regain support that has been eroded by the fastest inflation
in the world ahead of local elections scheduled for Dec. 8,
David Smilde, a sociology professor at the  University of
Georgia , said.  The government “is seeking once again scapegoats to blame
for their own mistakes,” the opposition coalition, led by
former presidential candidate Henrique Capriles, said in an e-mailed statement. “The government is trying to deviate
attention from the serious economic crisis that is hurting
Venezuela.”  The proportion of Venezuelans that perceive the economic
situation as negative rose about 20 percentage points to 72
percent since April, Barclays PLC said in a Nov. 12 report,
citing a Datanalisis poll taken from Sept. 23 to Oct. 2. The
margin of error wasn’t provided.  Shortages  Inflation (VNVPIYOY)  in Caracas soared to 54 percent in the 12 months
through October, the fastest pace in 16 years. Lack of dollars
has led to shortages of everything from flour to car parts in a
country that imports 70 percent of the goods it consumes.  Maduro said Nov. 18 he will initially use the law to
control profit margins across the economy. He said price
regulators backed by military inspected more than 1,000
businesses, forcing 99 percent to lower prices.  Profit margins will vary by economic sector, Maduro said
yesterday, adding that between 15 and 30 percent was “enough.”
Companies can operate with reduced prices he said were
“sustainable and viable.”  “We’ll achieve an economic miracle this century,” Maduro
said.  Army Occupied  “With the enabling law, no one will stop me from
protecting the people from the speculators, the parasites, the
thieves, the corrupt,” Maduro said Nov. 14.  Venezuela ’s army occupied this month an electronics chain
to enforce price reductions ordered by Maduro. He said Daka
stores were overcharging customers by as much as 1,200 percent.  The opposition coalition, known as MUD, voted against the
enabling law it said will be used to criminalize opponents.  “Maduro can now put out laws behind closed doors, without
consulting the opposition or his own coalition,” said Smilde.
“From a democratic perspective it’s undesirable, because it
reduces the public’s ability to oversee and counteract what the
government wants to do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Caracas at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  