-- Vitol, Shell Ask Judge to Halt Release of Oil Documents
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r   a n d   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2013-11-20T20:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/vitol-shell-ask-judge-to-halt-release-of-oil-documents.html
Some of the world’s largest oil
traders including Vitol Group, Morgan Stanley and  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  are asking a judge to stop the disclosure of millions
of records gathered by the top U.S. commodity regulator during
its nationwide investigation of the crude markets.  The haul includes e-mails, depositions, trading records and
audio files obtained by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission since its probe of the oil market began in December
2007. The companies appealed an Oct. 25 order by U.S. District
Judge William H. Pauley that would allow the handover of the
trove to lawyers leading a civil case alleging market
manipulation by firms controlled by Norwegian billionaire John Fredriksen. The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York today ordered
a temporary stay halting the release of the records while it
considers speeding up review of the challenge.  The battle over the records reveals for the first time the
breadth of the CFTC’s investigation. The agency told Pauley in
August that 5.7 million documents and almost 200,000 audio files
had been sent to the defendants in the manipulation case. Many
of the files came from the national probe.  “Society needs more inspection of trading in the crude oil
markets, not less,” said Chris Lovell, an attorney with Lovell
Stewart Halebian Jacobson LLP in New York, who is leading the
case and seeking class action status on behalf of traders who
claim to have lost money because of alleged manipulation.
“These guys should be subject to more transparency. I think
we’d all be better off.”  ‘Highly Confidential’  Pauley’s Oct. 25 order sharply restricts access to
materials from the CFTC cache that the companies claim are
“highly confidential.” Circulation of the documents will be
limited, and Lovell and other attorneys involved in the civil
case will have to sign declarations promising to comply with the
confidentiality provisions. Use of the files for any other
business purpose, such as trading strategies or unrelated
lawsuits, is forbidden.  The case stems from the CFTC’s 2011 claims against Nick
Wildgoose and James Dyer, traders at Fredriksen affiliates
Parnon Energy Inc. in Houston and Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. in
 London . They are accused of manipulating the oil market in 2008
as prices rocketed toward $147 a barrel. The defendants have
denied the allegations. Some of the companies whose records were
disclosed to Parnon earlier this year weren’t notified until
after the files were sent, court records show.  “We believe the CFTC may have improperly disclosed certain
records,” said Brad Leone, a spokesman for  Plains All American
Pipeline LP (PAA) , one of the companies appealing Pauley’s order.  Trading Fraternity  The dispute is the latest blow for a trading fraternity
that has long prized secrecy.  In May, the European Commission raided the offices of
Shell, BP Plc and Statoil ASA along with price reporting company
Platts as part of a probe into how benchmark energy prices are
set. The commission hasn’t charged any of the companies with
wrongdoing. Last month, four longtime traders on the New York
Mercantile Exchange filed a lawsuit claiming they can prove that
BP, Statoil and Shell conspired with other firms, including
Morgan Stanley and Vitol, to manipulate Brent crude, a benchmark
used to price more than half the world’s oil.  Shell,  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Vitol, Plains and Castleton
Commodities International LLC have appealed Pauley’s order.
Spokesmen for Vitol, Shell and Morgan Stanley declined to
comment; an attorney for Castleton didn’t return calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  ‘Public Interest’  “These documents obviously have public interest value,”
said Michael Greenberger, a former director of trading and
markets at the CFTC and a law professor at the University of
 Maryland . “Within the CFTC papers, there may be evidence of
manipulation of the market that has not been acted upon
aggressively by the CFTC.”  Despite the confidentiality restrictions and the CFTC’s
redactions, the files have already put lawyers for Wildgoose and
Dyer “tantalizingly close” to identifying a confidential
informant whose tip led to the charges, Jonathan P. Robell, a
CFTC attorney, said during an Aug. 29 hearing.  At least one informant told the CFTC about Parnon’s trading
“and essentially said there’s something rotten, if not in
 Denmark , in Cushing,  Oklahoma ,” Pauley said at an Aug. 2
hearing.  Parnon’s lawyers used the CFTC records to find and subpoena
the informant’s attorney and identify the company the whistle-blower worked for, court records show. Documents including the
identity of the informant’s attorney were sealed by the court.  WTI Manipulation  The CFTC in May 2011 accused Parnon of manipulating prices
of West Texas Intermediate crude available at Cushing, the
delivery point for the U.S. benchmark Nymex futures.  Parnon and its affiliates, subsidiaries of Fredriksen’s
Cyprus-based Farahead Holdings Ltd., bought up a large share of
WTI, then exploited its dominant position to create a perception
that  supplies  were scarce in January 2008 and again March 2008,
the CFTC said. That drove prices higher, allowing them to make
money on a sizable derivatives bet, the CFTC  said .  Wildgoose and Dyer then dumped their supplies, sending oil
into a tailspin while profiting on derivatives that rose in
value as prices fell, the CFTC said. The abrupt selloff cost the
firm $15 million, which was more than offset by a $50 million
gain on their paper positions.  Attorneys representing the defendants declined to comment.  Viking King  Fredriksen, a shipping magnate known within the industry as
“The Viking King,” said in May 2011 that the CFTC’s lawsuit
was “rubbish.”  “This came as a surprise to me, I wasn’t aware of it,”
Fredriksen said in an interview outside Oslo at the time.
“Those who work with buying and selling oil, that’s how they
operate all of them. It’s completely normal.”  Plains told the court that the company provided more than 1
million pages to the CFTC, including transcripts of confidential
depositions of Plains employees. Court records show the CFTC in
2010 deposed John von Berg, a senior vice president with Plains,
and Hugo Zagaria, a director with the company.  Plains provided its records to the CFTC “in response to an
unsolicited subpoena associated with a proceeding for which
Plains was not a target,” Leone said.  Parnon has also subpoenaed Zagaria and von Berg, and Plains
tried to quash the subpoena, court records show. The company
also asked Parnon to provide declarations saying Zagaria and von
Berg hadn’t participated in any manipulation with the
defendants, according to an Oct. 11 e-mail from Elizabeth
Bradshaw, an attorney at Winston & Strawn LLP representing
Parnon.  Plains Strategies  “Plains’s documents, even though several years old,
provide a road map for Plains’s business strategies,” the
company said in its Nov. 13 request that the U.S. Court of
Appeals stay Pauley’s order. “They demonstrate how Plains makes
pricing decisions, its profit margins, and its hedging and risk-management strategies.”  Shell said the records the company turned over to the CFTC
included details of its “refining operations, pipeline
capacity, storage capacity and trading of crude oil,” court
records show.  Morgan Stanley gave the CFTC “detailed and highly
confidential records pertaining to its commodity trading
business,” according to a June court filing. The records, if
released, “would potentially reveal strategies employed by
Morgan Stanley traders.”  Vitol gave 1.4 million pages to the CFTC between 2008 and
2010 pursuant to requests from the agency and “in response to
investigative subpoenas.”  “We’ve argued to the court that the deliverable supply and
how the crude oil markets work and the communication among those
trading in the market, are all pertinent to the case,” Lovell
said.  U.S. oil  stockpiles  expanded last week by 375,000 barrels
to 388.5 million, the Energy Information Administration said
today. Supplies at Cushing climbed to 39.9 million.  The case is In Re: Crude Oil Commodity Futures Litigation,
11-cv-03600. The CFTC case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Parnon Energy Inc., 11-cv-3543, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ). The appeal is
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v. Parnon Energy Inc.,
13-04206, Second U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  