-- Vodafone Chief Is Open to His ‘Beautiful Assets’ Being Eyed
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-11-21T08:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/vodafone-chief-is-open-to-his-beautiful-assets-being-circled.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , set to receive
$130 billion for exiting the U.S., will focus on expanding
wireless networks even as potential buyers may be sizing up the
company for a bid, Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao  said.  “We have a strategy and we are putting a lot of money into
it, but if somebody comes and says, ‘You have really beautiful
assets,’ then I will agree,” Colao said yesterday at an
investor conference in Barcelona. “We have beautiful assets.”  AT&T Inc. (T)  executives are laying the groundwork internally
for a potential acquisition of Vodafone next year, people with
knowledge of the matter told  Bloomberg News  this month. A
takeover of Vodafone would give the second-largest U.S. wireless
carrier a foothold in Europe as demand increases for faster,
fourth-generation services.  Vodafone is spending 7 billion pounds ($11.3 billion)
through March 2016 on network upgrades, spreading 4G service
across Europe and building high-speed landline and mobile
networks in  emerging markets  such as  South Africa .  Europe’s largest mobile operator also plans to cover the
region with so-called converged services -- of television,
Internet and telephone -- in the next five years, Colao said.
The Newbury, England-based company will offer the services
through a mix of  acquisitions , network buildouts and
partnerships, he said at the conference organized by Morgan
Stanley.  Vodafone gained less than 1 percent to 228.20 pence at 8:50
a.m. in London. The shares have gained 47 percent this year.  Spain Improvement  Vodafone is set to receive $130 billion for selling its
stake in the Verizon Wireless venture to Verizon Communications
Inc. Verizon shareholders will probably vote on the deal in
January, Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo said at the event
yesterday.  Vodafone’s Spanish market, which has suffered from heavy
competition and a sluggish economy, may have hit bottom and is
starting to see some “very early signs” of improvement, Colao
told reporters.  “We have lost a bit of market share, but I’m not too
concerned about that,” he said. “Our focus now is on improving
our network and service.”  The  company  would look at takeover opportunities in  Spain ,
though it is focusing on improving 3G and 4G services, he said.  Vodafone is also looking for consolidation in Europe and
 India  to help increase market returns, Colao said. Neelie Kroes,
the European Commission vice president in charge of creating a
single market for telecommunications in Europe, is on the right
track with a goal of making the continent work more like
healthier markets in the U.S. and  Asia , he said.  “Consolidation in Europe and in India has to happen,”
Colao said. “Every politician and executive with long-term
thinking knows that the sector needs enough returns to guarantee
investments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in Barcelona at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  