-- Vornado Seeking Buyer for California’s Beverly Connection
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n ,   N a d j a   B r a n d t   a n d   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2013-11-20T19:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/vornado-seeking-buyer-for-california-s-beverly-connection.html
Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) , the owner of
100 million square feet of U.S. real estate, put a shopping mall
near  Beverly Hills ,  California , on the market as part of a plan
to sell assets from its portfolio.  Space at the 335,500-square-foot (31,100-square-meter)
Beverly Connection is leased to value-oriented retailers
including TJ Maxx, Target and Nordstrom Rack, according to a
marketing document sent by broker Eastdil Secured LLC to
potential buyers. Wendi Kopsick, a spokeswoman for Vornado with
Kekst & Co., and Saju Chacko, an Eastdil vice president,
declined to comment on the plans for Beverly Connection.  Vornado plans to sell more real estate than it acquires
following a surge in values, Chief Executive Officer  Steven Roth 
has said. The New York-based real estate investment trust has
sold such assets as the Kings Plaza shopping center in  New
York ’s Brooklyn borough, for $751 million; the Green Acres Mall
in Valley Stream, New York, for $500 million; and its stake in
LNR Property LLC, the biggest manager of troubled U.S.
commercial mortgages, for proceeds of $241 million.  Beverly Connection is “not an asset that we intend to own
for next year,” Roth said in a Nov. 5 call with analysts.  The retail center, built in 1948 on a 9.8-acre (4-hectare)
site and renovated three times since, is 98 percent leased
including pending deals, according to the marketing document.
Tenants include apparel chains Marshalls and  Old Navy  and
drugstore CVS. The property is across the street from high-end
shopping mall Beverly Center.  ‘Good Job’  Beverly Connection may sell for at least $250 million, said
Carl Muhlstein, a Los Angeles-based managing director at
brokerage Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. who isn’t involved in the
marketing of the property.  “They’ve done a very good job positioning that space and
bringing in new off-price tenants, which is a great complement
to other regional high-end shopping centers,” Muhlstein said.
“The economic engines like Cedars-Sinai hospital and the design
industry in that area are doing great and the population density
is immense.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  