-- Wall Street Keeps Swagger in CMBS as Sales Surge: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-11-20T15:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/wall-street-keeps-swagger-in-cmbs-as-sales-surge-credit-markets.html
With almost six weeks to go in 2013,
sales of commercial-mortgage bonds are already surpassing Wall
Street’s forecasts for the year, defying concern that rising
interest rates would stymie new deals.  Issuance of the securities is poised to exceed $80 billion,
eclipsing the $60 billion that Barclays Plc predicted in
January, according to analysts at the bank. Lenders have
arranged $65.5 billion of offerings this year and another $14.5
billion is in the works, including a $3.5 billion deal tied to
Hilton Worldwide Inc. that will be the largest such offering
since before the credit crisis, Bank of America Corp. data show.  New York City landlords to South Carolina hotel operators
are rushing to refinance mortgages before the Federal Reserve
starts cutting stimulus that pushed interest-rate benchmarks to
record lows. After Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke rattled
investors in May by telling Congress a pullback could start this
year, average borrowing costs in the CMBS market surged as much
as 1.5 percentage points, prompting firms from Bank of America
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. to predict a sales slowdown.  ‘Wake-Up Call’  “People got a peek at what the world might look like,”
said Andrew Solomon, a managing director at New York-based
Angelo Gordon & Co., one of nine money managers selected in 2009
to take part in the U.S. government’s Public-Private Investment
Partnership to spur the purchase of mortgage-backed securities
from banks. “That was a wake-up call.”  The average cost to borrow in the CMBS market climbed to as
high as 5.38 percent in deals sold earlier this month after
dipping to as low as 3.9 percent in June, Bank of America data
show. The increase hasn’t discouraged landlords from seeking new
loans as had been anticipated, according to Alan Todd, a
commercial-mortgage debt analyst at Bank of America in New York.  “A lot of borrowers are getting off the sidelines before
rates go up again,” he said.  Lenders who package loans into CMBS also have picked up
business from multifamily properties as Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac ratchet back loans to apartment landlords, according to
Keerthi Raghavan, a debt analyst at Barclays in New York.  CMBS issuance, which ceased for 16 months starting in June
2008 amid the seizure in credit markets, is poised to more than
double from last year, Bloomberg data show. Bank of America is
forecasting $100 billion of offerings in 2014.  Slipping Standards  The surge in sales is fueling concern that banks are
allowing lending standards to slip. Moody’s Investors Service is
increasing the amount of credit protection required to garner
investment-grade rankings on riskier portions of new deals,
meaning underwriters have to build in a bigger cushion to
protect investors from losses. Some dealers are forgoing a
ranking on those securities from the firm.  The size of loans relative to property values, a ratio
known as LTV, is climbing, Moody’s said in an Oct. 28 report.
The average LTV increased to 103 percent in the third quarter
from 102.6 percent in the prior three-month period, according to
the New York-based rating company. Higher leverage makes it
harder to pay off debt.  Standards for commercial real-estate lending are seen
loosening further next year. About 43 percent of respondents
from investors to developers surveyed by PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP and the Urban Land Institute said they expect underwriting
to be less rigorous in 2014, the firms said in a  report  this
month.  ‘Reasonably Conservative’  Underwriting in new CMBS deals isn’t as bad as it was
leading up to property-market crash in 2007, said Angelo
Gordon’s Solomon.  “The pendulum swung so far in the opposite direction when
new deals started getting done,” he said. “We’re still in a
reasonably conservative space.”  Investors continue to snap up new deals with the central
bank maintaining $85 billion of bond purchases and holding its
interest-rate target near zero for a fifth year, pushing
investors toward risker assets.  The Hilton offering, linked to 23 properties across the
U.S., is expected to see “strong demand,” Jefferies Group LLC
analysts led by Lisa Pendergast said in a Nov. 18 report. The
underwriters are offering a top-ranked slice of the deal
maturing in five years to pay 110 basis points more than the
London interbank offered rate, or Libor, according to people
familiar with the offering. The transaction is enabling
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  to pay down debt in preparation for an
initial public offering.  Delinquencies Ease  Declining delinquencies and climbing property values are
encouraging CMBS investors. Payments at least 30 days late on
commercial mortgages packaged into bonds fell 10 basis points to
10.15 percent in October, the lowest level since December 2011,
according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  Real estate values in the U.S. have recovered 70 percent of
declines since bottoming in December 2009, according to the
Moody’s/RCA Commercial Property Price  index .  Commercial-mortgage bonds rated AAA have returned 2.12
percent this year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show.  Performance next year will hinge on the timing of the Fed’s
decision to wean markets off of unprecedented stimulus by
tapering its bond purchases, according to JPMorgan analysts led
by Ed Reardon in New York.  Maintaining Positions  CMBS buyers don’t plan to reduce holdings in 2014, with 24
percent of investors expecting to increase them and 74 percent
poised to maintain current allocations, the JPMorgan analysts
said in a report last week, citing an investor survey.  The demand is poised to push issuance even higher next
year, Barclays’s Raghavan said.  “Everyone has pressure not to sit in cash,” he said.  Elsewhere in credit markets, AT&T Inc., the largest U.S.
phone company, is planning to sell a benchmark amount of notes
as soon as today. The cost to protect against losses on
corporate bonds in the U.S. and Europe declined.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses or
to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 1.2 basis points to 71.6
basis points as of 10:41 a.m. in New York, snapping a two-day
increase, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Europe Benchmark  The index started the week by touching 69.5 basis points,
the lowest since November 2007 in data that adjust for the
effects of the market’s shift to a new version of the benchmark
in September.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings dropped 1.4 basis points to 81.3.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  AT&T may issue five-year debentures in fixed- and floating-rate portions, according to a person with knowledge of the
offering. Benchmark sales are typically at least $500 million in
size.  The debt, which the Dallas-based communications provider
may use for general corporate purposes, is expected to be rated
A3 by Moody’s Investors Service, said the person, who asked not
to be identified because terms aren’t set.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  