-- Wells Fargo’s Stumpf Dislikes Fed Bond Buys That Punish Savers
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2013-11-20T22:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/wells-fargo-s-stumpf-dislikes-fed-bond-buys-that-punish-savers.html
John Stumpf , chief executive officer
at  Wells Fargo & Co ., said he dislikes Federal Reserve monthly
bond purchases at this point in the economic cycle and that the
policy has hurt savers.  “I’m not a big fan of QE this late in the recovery,”
Stumpf said today at The Year Ahead: 2014, a  two-day conference 
sponsored by Bloomberg LP in Chicago. He was referring to the
Fed’s bond purchases, known as quantitative easing. “QE, while
it’s helped borrowers, has really punished savers,” he said.  Central bank officials have been buying $85 billion in
bonds each month to drive down  interest rates  and spur the
economic recovery, swelling the Fed’s balance sheet to almost $4
trillion. Some market participants have said the tactic is
losing effectiveness, and economists polled by Bloomberg have
predicted the Fed will begin paring purchases in March.  Some of the U.S. policies work at cross purposes, according
to Stumpf, 60. While the Fed has lowered rates to help the
economy,  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the government-backed
mortgage firms, are forcing lenders to repurchase loans with
minor flaws, he said.  That’s leading banks to raise credit standards above
government minimums to provide themselves with an extra buffer
against claims, making it harder for borrowers with tarnished
credit records to secure loans, he said.  “The reason we add something to it is because we are
getting loans  put back to us  that we made five or 10 years ago
for some, in many cases, esoteric or insignificant issues,”
Stumpf said. “That’s not good for America. I’m in favor of good
regulations, but some of it’s inconsistent.”  Stumpf’s San Francisco-based company is the nation’s
largest mortgage lender. Wells Fargo originated $80 billion of
home loans in the third quarter, according to a  presentation , or
about 18 percent of the total market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  