-- White House Says Health Law Helping Slow Rise in Costs
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-11-20T16:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/white-house-says-health-law-helping-slow-rise-in-costs.html
The White House said spending on
health care in the last three years has risen at the slowest
pace on record, with implications for American pocketbooks,
jobs, the  federal budget  and the economy.  A report by President  Barack Obama ’s economic advisers
linked slower growth of health costs to passage of the
Affordable Care Act in 2010. It was released today as the
administration is defending the law from an onslaught of
criticism after the flawed opening of the federal online
insurance exchange and the cancellation of individual policies
for hundreds of thousands of Americans.  As part of that defense, Obama is scheduled to meet this
afternoon with state insurance commissioners to discuss their
concerns about state-by-state rules for implementation of the
law.  “Health care spending is the lowest on record,” and
health care price inflation “is at the lowest rate in 50
years,” rising about 1 percent annually, the lowest since
September 1962, according to a 28-page report today by the White
House Council of Economic Advisers.  Health care expenditures account for 18 percent of U.S.
gross domestic product. The report said spending will increase
about 1.3 percent in the three years that end Dec. 31. That’s
down from a 1.8 percent average increase in 2007-2010 during the
recession, and less than a third of the 4.5 percent average
increase in the last 45 years.  Economic Impact  Obama cited the slowing rise in spending on health care as
a boon to businesses and a boost to U.S. economic growth in
remarks to chief executives yesterday.  “There was a lot of skepticism when we passed the
Affordable Care Act that we were going to be giving a lot of
people care but we weren’t doing anything about the underlying
costs,” Obama said at a Wall Street Journal forum in
 Washington . “And, in fact, over the last three years, we’ve
seen health care costs grow at the slowest pace in 50 years. And
that affects the bottom lines of everybody here.”  The CEA report stands in contrast from a conclusion
published last month by Actuaries at the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, who don’t answer to the White House, that
costs eased because of the slowdown of the economy rather that
the law, passed in 2010.  Structural Changes  “The current slowdown is the result of more than just the
recession and its aftermath,” the White House report said,
citing the advent of “structural” changes in the health-care
industry.  The report credits the law,  known as Obamacare, with
cutting Medicare overpayments to insurance companies and
doctors, reducing hospital readmission rates, and trimming
reimbursement costs to health-care providers, such as hospitals.  If costs and spending continue to rise more slowly, the
effect may be felt throughout the economy, according to the
report, with short-term and long-term benefits.  Slower growth in health-care costs may leave room for
employers to hire more people or increase wages, it said. In the
long-term, the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  said that
the ACA “will reduce deficits by about $100 billion” over a
decade, partly due to slower increases in Medicare costs.  The $1.3 trillion Affordable Care Act seeks to extend
coverage to most of the nation’s 50 million uninsured by
expanding state Medicaid programs and creating government-run
insurance exchanges to buy subsidized medical plans. Critics
have become more vocal amid the troubled opening of the federal
exchange on Oct. 1.  Support Falls  A CBS News poll released today showed that Americans’
approval of the health-care law has fallen to 31 percent, the
lowest recorded in CBS News Polls, and a decline of 12 points
since last month. Sixty-one percent disapprove of the law, the
network said.  “It is self-evident this isn’t working. Nobody’s defending
it,” Senator  Ted Cruz , a Texas Republican who led an
unsuccessful fight to scuttle the law earlier this year, said on
CNN today. “This is killing jobs,” he said, and insurance
premiums “are skyrocketing across the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  