-- WikiLeaks Threatens Pacific Trade Deal Deadline: Southeast Asia
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-11-21T08:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/wikileaks-threatens-pacific-trade-deal-deadline-southeast-asia.html
The leak of a document purported to
be part of the draft text for the 12-nation Trans-Pacific
Partnership trade accord has further dented optimism talks can
be concluded by the end of this year.  “Next year is doable, but this year is very tough,”
Mustapa Mohamed,  Malaysia ’s international trade minister, said
in an interview yesterday. “We’ve got another few weeks to go
and Christmas. People close shop. What came out in the last
couple of weeks from WikiLeaks” is “not helping the process.”  Some TPP provisions would “trample over individual
rights,” according to anti-secrecy organization WikiLeaks,
which last week released online what it said is a draft of the
proposed agreement on intellectual property rights. Chief
negotiators from the nations crafting the deal have been meeting
in  Salt Lake City  this week. The next round of talks planned for
 Singapore  next month will be crucial in providing clarity on
where the agreement is going, Mustapa said while in the city on
a trade and investment mission.  Malaysia has expressed wariness over some parts of the deal
to create a trade bloc covering an area with about $28 trillion
in annual economic output, including those related to state-owned enterprises and government procurement. Leaders from the
U.S. to  Japan  also face opposition to the deal at home, which
the  Asian Development Bank  said last month is at risk of
collapsing into a series of bilateral agreements.  ‘Enormous’ Challenges  “It’s hard to see Malaysia or any other country in the
region just jumping into it without due consideration,”  Rahul Bajoria , a Singapore-based economist at Barclays Plc, said by
phone yesterday. “These negotiations will probably continue for
a little bit longer.” The official deadline to complete the
talks remains the end of this year even as a variety of
officials involved have indicated this won’t be met.  Prime Minister Najib Razak said last month he was committed
to negotiating the best possible deal for Malaysia and
presenting it to parliament to decide whether to sign. He wants
to protect the country’s affirmative-action program under which
it grants preferential treatment in areas including business and
education to ethnic Malays and indigenous people. The government
is also keen to ensure any agreement on patents doesn’t raise
health-care costs, he said.  “We still believe that overall it’s good for Malaysia, but
in the end of course we’ve got to convince our people,” Mustapa
said yesterday. “We’ve been facing a lot of domestic
opposition. In some countries the challenges are not as enormous
as what we have in Malaysia.”  In addition to Japan, the U.S. and Malaysia, the other
nations negotiating the TPP are  Australia , Brunei,  Canada ,
 Chile ,  Mexico ,  New Zealand ,  Peru , Singapore and  Vietnam .  Subsidy Cuts  Malaysia, Vietnam, Peru and Brunei may be granted a five-year grace period to reform their policies for state-owned
enterprises,  Vietnam Briefing  reported online on Oct. 21,
without citing where it got the information.  TPP member countries are pinning hopes on the pact boosting
exports and supporting growth amid an uneven global recovery.
Malaysia’s  economy  expanded 5 percent in the three months
through September, the fastest pace in three quarters.  Najib has over the past two months cut fuel and sugar
subsidies to contain the country’s  budget deficit  and shore up
its current account, after  Fitch Ratings  lowered Malaysia’s
credit outlook to negative in July.  The government will implement a goods and services tax of 6
percent in April 2015, while corporate and personal income tax
rates will be lowered after the new levy comes into force, Najib
said in his 2014 budget speech on Oct. 25.  Moody’s Positive  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday raised the outlook on
its A3 rating to positive, citing improved prospects for fiscal
consolidation and reform, plus continued macroeconomic
stability.  The ringgit has climbed about 1.6 percent against the
dollar this quarter, the best performer among  Asia ’s 11 most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The benchmark  FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  of stocks has risen 1.4 percent during the
same period and closed at a record on Oct. 24.  “We are on track for 4.5 to 5 percent” gross domestic
product growth this year, said Mustapa. Expansion will likely be
“a shade higher” in 2014 when exports could rise 3 percent to
4 percent, said the minister.  The government said in August it may delay some
infrastructure projects as part of measures to contain the
budget deficit. Public building projects with high import
content were most likely to be rescheduled, it said.  Lumpy Imports  Najib’s fiscal policy committee has since looked at re-sequencing infrastructure projects, such as a planned 156-kilometer (97-mile) mass railway system under construction in
 Kuala Lumpur , Abdul Wahid Omar, the minister heading Malaysia’s
Economic Planning Unit, said in an interview in Singapore
yesterday.  “The idea would be to ensure that we sequence it right
such that we don’t get the lumpy import items in any given
year,” said Wahid. “They will not result in delaying in
projects beyond one year. I think it’s more of in a matter of
months.”  Malaysia’s  current-account  surplus widened to 9.8 billion
ringgit ($3.1 billion) in the third quarter from 2.6 billion
ringgit in the preceding three months.  The TPP could yield global annual gains of $295 billion by
2025, according to estimates by Peter Petri and Michael Plummer
in a June 2012 policy brief published by the Peterson Institute
for International Economics.  The accord would go beyond usual trade pacts dealing with
tariffs and traditional goods like agriculture. It would
establish rules for trade in digital commerce and include
environmental standards and protections for companies that
compete against government-backed businesses.  ‘Very Crucial’  Japan’s defense of its farming industry, Malaysia’s
proposal to keep tobacco control measures out of the deal, and
the impact of currency manipulation on markets are among issues
that have impeded progress on a deal that the U.S. calls the
cornerstone of its economic policy in the region.  President  Barack Obama  also faces opposition from Congress,
consumer advocates, automakers and labor unions over the
agreement.  “The meeting in Singapore is very, very crucial,” Mustapa
said. “We will make an assessment on the way forward. For us,
the next three weeks are going to be crucial.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  