-- Won Trades Near Two-Year High Before FOMC Minutes; Bonds Steady
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-11-20T01:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/won-trades-near-two-year-high-before-fomc-minutes-bonds-steady.html
South Korea’s won traded within 0.1
percent of a two-year high as investors awaited the minutes of
the  Federal Reserve ’s last policy meeting for clues about the
timing of its stimulus cuts.  Government bonds  were steady.  The currency advanced 0.5 percent this month as Fed policy
makers signaled that the world’s largest economy isn’t strong
enough to allow tapering of measures that have spurred fund
flows to  emerging markets . The authority will release minutes of
the Federal Open Market Committee’s Oct. 29-30 meeting today.
China’s central bank will “basically” end normal intervention
in the currency market and broaden the yuan’s daily trading
limit, Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said, without giving a timeframe.  “Investors are cautious before the FOMC minutes and
regarding risks with the possible intervention by South Korean
authorities,” Han Sung Min, a currency trader at Busan Bank in
Seoul, wrote in a research note today. “ Yuan  will be supported
if China widens its trading range, which may boost Asian
currencies including the won.”  The won rose 0.05 percent to 1,055.30 per dollar as of
10:03 a.m. in Seoul, after touching 1,054.90 earlier, the
strongest level since Oct. 24, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
One-month implied volatility in the won, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, declined four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 6.2 percent.  South Korean authorities are concerned volatility in the
currency has been drastic and that moves have been one-sided,
Yonhap News reported today, citing an unnamed Bank of Korea
official. The won touched a two-year high of 1,054.35 per dollar
on Oct. 24 before suspected intervention by the  Bank of Korea  to
curb gains that may harm exports.  External Debt  South Korea’s external debt maturing in one year or less
fell to $111.5 billion at end-September from end-June as banks
repaid borrowings, the Bank of Korea said in a statement today.
Total debt rose to $411 billion in the same period as foreign
investors bought more government and central bank bonds,
according to the statement.  The nation’s inflation is lower than expected and the issue
is how to boost it to an appropriate level, central bank
Governor Kim Choong Soo said in Seoul today. Currencies are
increasingly volatile due to the U.S. stimulus policy known as
quantitative easing, he said.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent sovereign bonds due
June 2016 was unchanged at 2.95 percent, according to Korea
Exchange Inc. prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  