-- World Faces Added Warming on Japan's Weaker Carbon Target
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-11-20T13:22:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/world-faces-added-warming-on-japan-s-weaker-carbon-target.html
Japan ’s watered-down greenhouse-gas
pledge has left the Earth facing more warming than four years
ago, according to a group of scientists and climate analysts.  Emissions pledges by all nations chart a path for the
planet to warm by 3.7 degrees Celsius (6.7 degrees Fahrenheit)
by 2100, the Climate Action Tracker said today in a study
released during United Nations climate talks in Warsaw. That’s
0.6 degrees more warming than projected four years ago, when
countries including Japan set targets for emissions.  With the UN envoys seeking to limit warming since the pre-industrial era to 2 degrees Celsius to contain the worst effects
of  climate change , including longer droughts, rising seas and
stronger storms, backtracking by Japan and  Australia  is making
that goal harder to reach, according to the report.  “We are seeing a major risk of a further downward spiral
in ambition, a retreat from action, and a re-carbonization of
the energy system led by the use of coal,” said Bill Hare,
director of Climate Analytics, one of three organizations that
run the Climate Action Tracker program.  Japan’s new target, announced on Nov. 15, reverses course
by allowing a 3.1 percent increase in emissions from 1990 levels
by 2020, rather than seeking a 25 percent cut, as promised four
years ago.  Policy changes in Australia, where Prime Minister  Tony
Abbott  is delivering on a campaign promise to abolish a carbon
tax, risks exacerbating climate change, Climate Action Tracker
said. There are “some positive signals” from the U.S. and
 China , the world’s biggest emitters, the organization said.  Aside from Climate Analytics in Potsdam,  Germany , the
tracker is run by the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact
Research and Ecofys, an energy consultant with offices in the
U.S., China, Germany, the U.K. and the Netherlands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in Warsaw at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  