-- WTI Trades Near Five-Month Low on U.S. Crude Supply Gain
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2013-11-20T13:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/wti-crude-swings-ahead-of-u-s-stockpiles-iran-nuclear-talks.html
West Texas Intermediate traded near
a five-month low amid speculation U.S. crude inventories
increased while supply concerns eased as talks on  Iran ’s nuclear
program resume.  Futures were little changed in  New York .  Crude stockpiles 
are projected to gain 1 million barrels, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before data from the Energy Information
Administration today, compared with a 512,000-barrel build
reported by the  American Petroleum Institute . Supplies have
climbed to 388.1 million barrels amid a  surge in production ,
government data show. World powers and Iran will start
discussions in Geneva today that may loosen sanctions against
the Persian Gulf nation’s oil exports.  “We’ve seen a little short-covering on WTI as it trades
off five-month lows ahead of inventory data later today,” said
 Michael Hewson , a London-based market analyst at CMC Markets
Plc. “There’s a feeling that inventory data could actually come
in a little short, but the overall outlook remains of plentiful
supply, which should cap any short term rallies.”  WTI for December delivery, which expires today, gained 20
cents to $93.54 a barrel as of 1:39 p.m. London time in after
hours electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
The more-active January contract climbed 23 cents to $94.12. The
volume of all futures traded was 41 percent below the 100-day
average.  Brent for January settlement dropped as much as 41 cents,
or 0.4 percent, to $106.51 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. It was at a premium of $12.66 to WTI
for the same month. The spread was $13.03 yesterday, the
narrowest in a week based on closing prices.  Gasoline Supplies  U.S. gasoline inventories slid by 300,000 barrels in the
seven days ended Nov. 15, according to the  median estimate  of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Stockpiles have fallen the
previous five weeks to 209.2 million, the lowest level in a
year, said the EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical arm.  The API yesterday reported an 84,000-barrel increase in
supplies of gasoline. The industry group in  Washington  collects
data on a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk
terminals and pipelines. The government requires that reports be
filed with the EIA.  Distillate stockpiles, including heating oil and diesel,
are forecast to have dropped by 280,000 barrels, according to
the survey. Supplies decreased by 4.9 million, the API said.  Iran Talks  Iran and the five permanent members of the  United Nations
Security Council  plus  Germany  will hold their third round of
negotiations in six weeks to break a decade-long deadlock and
help remove sanctions against the Persian Gulf state, which have
cut oil exports.  Brent, the benchmark crude for half the world’s crude,
advanced the most in almost two weeks on Nov. 8 after U.S.
Secretary of State  John Kerry  downplayed the chances of a
nuclear accord. Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif
and European Union foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton will be
joined in the negotiations by senior diplomats from China,
France, Germany, Russia, the U.K. and the U.S.  Iran says its atomic development is for civilian energy and
medical use and that it has a right to enrich uranium for
peaceful purposes. The U.S. and its allies say Iran is covertly
seeking nuclear-weapons capability.  Israeli officials, led by Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , have criticized a potential agreement, which falls
short of United Nations Security Council resolutions demanding
Iran halt all enrichment.  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest oil
exporter, has also expressed skepticism about a deal with a
nation they regard as a threat to the region.  Libyan Exports  Oil prices  also declined after exports from  Libya  increased
as an  oil terminal  in the center-east of the country loaded its
first crude cargo in at least a month.  The Matilda, a tanker able to haul about 600,000 barrels,
was loading at the Brega facility and was scheduled to depart
yesterday, Ibrahim Al Awami, the director of measurement for the
oil ministry, said by phone. National Oil Corp. said Nov. 18
that a ship would load at Mellitah, a facility in the west.  “Libya is still far from being at full output as it is
still missing large volumes from Ras Lanuf and Es Sider but we
count 3 million barrels of crude oil loadings this week and this
is still a supply improvement, for now,”  Olivier Jakob ,
managing director at Petromatrix GmbH, said in an e-mailed
report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  