-- Yellen Says Fed to Uphold Public Interest in Volcker Compliance
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-11-20T23:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/yellen-says-fed-to-uphold-public-interest-in-volcker-compliance.html
Janet Yellen , the nominee for
Federal Reserve chairman, said the Fed would take into account
the public interest in any delay of the conformance period for
the Volcker rule, which bans proprietary trading at banks.  “As it considers the merits of adopting a final rule, the
board will also consider the public interest in granting an
extension of the conformance period,” Yellen said in a Nov. 18
response to questions from Senator Michael Crapo of  Idaho , the
senior Republican on the Senate Banking Committee.  “We are striving to consider this rule before year-end in
order to provide clarity and certainty to the affected members
of the industry and to the public more broadly,” said Yellen,
the Fed’s vice chairman.  Regulators at the Fed, Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency, Securities and Exchange Commission, Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. are
working to complete work on the Volcker rule, named for former
Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker . The rule is one of the most
controversial pieces of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act and one of the
final unfinished provisions of its overhaul of financial
regulation.  The measure is aimed at preventing banks that hold
federally insured customer deposits from engaging in the kind of
speculative trading with their own capital that could threaten
their stability.  Standard & Poor’s  has estimated that the rule
could sap combined profits at the eight largest U.S. banks by $2
billion to $10 billion a year, depending on its final language.  Banks have until July 21, 2014, to implement the Volcker
rule, even though regulators are behind schedule. Industry
representatives have been assured by regulators that that
deadline will probably be extended, according to three people
involved in the discussions.  A first draft of the rule was released in October 2011.
While regulators must agree on the wording of the measure, the
Fed has the authority to delay the date of compliance.  Yellen said the Fed can grant three extensions, each
lasting no more than one year, beyond the current conformance
date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  