-- Dollar Gains Versus Major Peers on Fed Taper in Coming Months
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-11-20T22:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/yen-advances-as-stock-declines-boost-haven-demand-aussie-drops.html
The dollar rose against most major
peers as Federal Reserve officials said they might reduce their
$85 billion in monthly bond purchases “in coming months” as
the economy improves, minutes of their last meeting show.  The euro dropped from a four-year high versus the yen as
the  European Central Bank  is considering a negative deposit rate
if more economic stimulus is needed, according to two people
with knowledge of the debate. The yen strengthened as a panel
said  Japan ’s government-run pension fund needs restructuring.  “The Fed came across less dovish,”  Joe Manimbo , a market
analyst in  Washington  at Western Union Business Solutions, a
unit of Western Union Co., said in phone interview. “The market
is caught in this tug of war on the time line for a taper, so
less-dovish minutes give a little more leverage to the camp in
the market that expects the Fed to taper policy by March or
sooner. That has increased the tailwind we’ve seen on the
dollar.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which monitors the
greenback against 10 major peers, increased for the first time
in four days, adding 0.4 percent to 1,019.07 yen at 5 p.m. in
 New York .  The euro declined 0.8 percent to 134.43 yen after earlier
touching 135.95, the strongest level since October 2009. The
shared currency fell 0.7 percent to $1.3439. The dollar slid 0.1
percent to 100.03 yen.  Rand, Ruble  The South African rand advanced versus all 16 of its most-traded counterparts after consumer-price  inflation  slowed to 5.5
percent last month from 6 percent in September. The median
 estimate  in a Bloomberg survey was 5.7 percent. The currency
appreciated 0.3 percent to 10.1507 per dollar after earlier
rising 1.3 percent, the biggest climb since Sept. 18.  Russia’s ruble fell versus the majority of its 31 major
peers as Bank Rossii revoked the license of Moscow-based retail
bank OAO Master-Bank for repeatedly breaching money laundering
laws. The currency depreciated 0.6 percent to 32.9020 per dollar
after falling to 32.9248, the lowest level in a week.  The Chilean peso decreased versus the majority of its
emerging-market counterparts after the country’s central bank
cut its target lending rate by 25 basis points to 4.50 percent.
The currency slid 0.5 percent to 522.26 per dollar after
reaching 524.50, its weakest since December 2011.  ‘Ongoing Improvement’  Fed policy makers “generally expected that the data would
prove consistent with the Committee’s outlook for ongoing
improvement in labor market conditions and would thus warrant
trimming the pace of purchases in coming months,” according to
the record of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Oct. 29-30
gathering, released today in Washington.  The dollar strengthened as Federal Reserve Bank of St.
Louis President  James Bullard , a voter on policy this year who
has backed record stimulus, said during a Bloomberg Television
interview that tapering is “definitely on the table, but it’s
going to depend on the data.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the central
bank was committed to highly accommodative policies, echoing
recent comments from other Fed officials including Vice Chairman
 Janet Yellen , who has been nominated to succeed him.  “Bernanke and Yellen remain very consistent with each
other that rates in the U.S. are going to remain low for a long
time,” said  Thomas Averill , a managing director in Sydney at
Rochford Capital, a currency and rates risk-management company.
“I do think the story is dollar weakness. I would say sell the
 U.S. dollar  across the board.”  Delayed Taper  Four of five investors expect the Fed to delay a decision
to begin reducing its bond buying until March 2014 or later,
with just 5 percent looking for a move next month, according to
the latest Bloomberg Global Poll. Policy makers meet Dec. 18-19.  The greenback declined earlier as the consumer-price index
dropped 0.1 percent, reflecting cheaper energy, clothing and new
cars, after a 0.2 percent gain the prior month, a Labor
Department report showed. The median forecast of 85 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for no change.  ECB policy makers are considering reducing the  rate  for
commercial lenders who park excess cash at the central bank to
minus 0.1 percent from zero, said people who asked not to be
identified because the talks aren’t public.  It would be the first time the ECB has adjusted  interest
rates  by less than a quarter of a percentage point. The concept,
which has been discussed by Governing Council members, doesn’t
yet have a consensus, the people said.  ‘Negative Implications’  “Taking the deposit rate negative, that will have negative
implications on the euro,” Eric Viloria, senior currency
strategist at Gain Capital Group in New York, said in a phone
interview. “If banks have to pay money in order to park cash
with the ECB, it’s going to make them reluctant to do so, and
make investors reluctant to hold euros.”  The Aussie fell for the first time in four days versus the
dollar as the IMF said  Australia ’s central bank should maintain
easy policy setting as the overvalued currency combined with a
mining-investment slowdown are dragging on economic growth. The
Aussie fell 1.1 percent to 93.34 U.S. cents after declining 1.3
percent, its biggest drop since July 31, and  New Zealand ’s
currency dropped 1.2 percent to 82.73 U.S. cents.  The yen gained on most major counterparts as the panel
advising Japan’s leaders on how to overhaul the 121 trillion-yen
Government Pension Investment Fund said the world’s biggest
manager of retirement savings should review its holdings of
domestic bonds and diversify its investments into overseas
assets.  The yen trimmed its loss this year to 11 percent, the most
among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro rose 6 percent and the
dollar gained 3.9 percent.  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $57 billion, from $63 billion yesterday, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $14 billion, the largest share of
trades at 24 percent. Options on the euro-dollar rate totaled
$11 billion, or 20 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 36 percent more than the
average for the past five Wednesdays at a similar time in the
day, according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options
trading was 46 percent above average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  