-- ThyssenKrupp Split No Longer Taboo as Cevian In: Real M&A
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-11-20T17:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/thyssenkrupp-split-no-longer-taboo-as-cevian-in-real-m-a.html
A breakup of ThyssenKrupp AG -- an
idea long-resisted by its biggest  shareholder  -- is starting to
look more realistic after activist investor Cevian Capital AB
increased its stake in the German conglomerate.  Swedish investment firm Cevian disclosed its higher stake
in September and is now ThyssenKrupp’s second-biggest owner. The
stock has  gained  11 percent since then on optimism the firm may
push for measures such as a breakup of the $13.5 billion
company, whose operations  range  from steel-making to elevator
systems and bearings for  wind turbines . Commerzbank AG says the
company would be better off separating its major businesses, and
the average of four analysts’ sum-of-the-parts estimates
indicates a potential return for shareholders of 30 percent.  “A breakup is conceivable,” said Joerg Schneider, a  money
manager  at Union Investment, which oversees about 200 billion
euros ($270 billion), including ThyssenKrupp shares. “Activist
shareholders can set quite a few things in motion. Suddenly
things become possible that were considered very improbable,”
he said in a phone interview from  Frankfurt .  ThyssenKrupp, whose biggest shareholder the Krupp
foundation has a blocking stake, is  projected  to report a third
straight annual net loss next month amid unprofitable steel
investments in the Americas and bribery and price-fixing
scandals. Even after trimming costs and streamlining operations,
including putting the American steel business up for sale, it
commands a  lower valuation  than 92 percent of peers, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. While the Krupp foundation has
vowed to keep the company together, Bankhaus Lampe KG says in
time even it will probably back a breakup, too.  ‘Makes Sense’  “A split-up makes sense long term because the industrial
division is growing faster and is more profitable than the
cyclical steel division. That would be the right way,” Marc Gabriel, an analyst at Bankhaus Lampe, said in a phone interview
from Dusseldorf. “I don’t expect resistance from
shareholders,” including the Krupp foundation, he said.  Robin Zimmermann, a spokesman at Essen, Germany-based
ThyssenKrupp, declined to comment on the possibility of an
eventual breakup.  ThyssenKrupp was formed in 1999 from the merger of Thyssen
AG and Fried. Krupp AG Hoesch-Krupp. Its largest shareholder,
the Alfried Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach Foundation, holds a
25.3 percent stake, according to regulatory filings, and has
veto power over any major decision.  A representative for the Krupp foundation declined to
comment when asked whether the foundation would support a
possible splitup of ThyssenKrupp.  Writedowns, Fines  Germany’s biggest steelmaker, ThyssenKrupp has been hurt by
a succession of steel-related writedowns and corruption probes
that resulted in three executive board members being ousted in
December as well as antitrust fines. In March, Gerhard Cromme,
its chairman since 2001, resigned. ThyssenKrupp said today it
agreed with Deutsche Bahn AG on the payment of compensation for
price collusion in the sale of railway tracks and sees no
further costs beyond already recognized provisions.  ThyssenKrupp, which didn’t pay its latest annual dividend,
has lost almost 60 percent in market value from its peak in
2008.  Chief Executive Officer  Heinrich Hiesinger , appointed in
January 2011, is seeking to fortify the company by expanding its
non-steel business and selling assets, including unprofitable
plants in  Alabama  and  Brazil ’s Rio de Janeiro state. Hiesinger
sold the company’s Inoxum stainless-steel unit in December.  Sale Talks  “The disposal of Inoxum has demonstrated that the company
is prepared to break with tradition,” Sven Diermeier, an
analyst at Independent Research GmbH, said in a phone interview
from Frankfurt.  ThyssenKrupp is in talks to sell its Alabama plant to
ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest steelmaker, and  Japan ’s
 Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corp. (5401) , who teamed up for their
offer, according to two people familiar with the matter. The
companies aim to reach an agreement in the coming weeks, though
talks could still fall apart, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because negotiations are private.  ThyssenKrupp fell 1.6 percent today to 19.09 euros, making
it the biggest decliner among stocks in the benchmark DAX Index.  Cevian Stake  The company said yesterday that it was in exclusive talks
on the sale of the Alabama plant and a related slab supply
contract, without providing further details. Representatives for
ThyssenKrupp and  ArcelorMittal (MT)  declined to comment on a possible
transaction. Tsuyoshi Yoshizumi, a Tokyo-based spokesman at
Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal, also declined to comment.  Cevian disclosed Sept. 25 that it raised its holdings in
ThyssenKrupp to 5.2 percent, fueling optimism that greater
participation will spur restructuring. The Swedish firm has
since increased its stake and is now ThyssenKrupp’s second-largest shareholder with a 6.1 percent holding, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  In September, Jens Tischendorf, a partner at Cevian, said
in a statement that it backed the strategy of ThyssenKrupp’s
management and sees “significant potential for the
development” of the company.  Roland Klein, a spokesman for Cevian at CNC Communications,
reiterated yesterday that the firm supports management, and
declined to comment on a possible breakup.  ‘Good Record’  “Cevian Capital has a very good track record in  Germany 
and enforced changes at equity holdings that increased value,”
Ingo-Martin Schachel, an analyst at Commerzbank, said in a phone
interview from Frankfurt. “That can also be helpful for the
other ThyssenKrupp shareholders.”  Even after gaining since Cevian disclosed its increased
stake, ThyssenKrupp’s enterprise value is just 6.3 times its
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
in the past 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with a median of about 11 times for steel
producers and industrial companies with market values larger
than $5 billion, the data show.  Based on the sum of its  parts , ThyssenKrupp should be
valued at about 25.2 euros a share, according to the average of
four analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg, compared with
yesterday’s closing price of 19.4 euros. The lowest estimate at
21.93, from Bankhaus Lampe’s Gabriel, still values ThyssenKrupp
13 percent higher than yesterday’s close.  Elevator Upside  The company would be better positioned without its steel
and materials services units so it could focus on its
technologies businesses, Independent Research’s Diermeier said.  “A spinoff, possibly combined with a partial IPO, could
open the way,” while allowing the Krupp foundation to maintain
its investment, Diermeier said. A breakup “won’t happen fast
because political opposition must be expected and it makes sense
to wait for the effect of the restructuring.”  Commerzbank’s Schachel estimates ThyssenKrupp’s value at as
much as 30 euros a share in a breakup. He said the elevator
technology business alone could be worth as much as 12 billion
euros to a buyer that can exploit synergies to keep costs down.
That’s more than ThyssenKrupp’s current market  value  of about 10
billion euros.  For each of ThyssenKrupp’s business units, there’s a
conceivable partner, and that opens a wide range of
possibilities, said Christian Obst, an analyst at Baader Bank AG
who estimates ThyssenKrupp is worth 25 euros a share based on
the sum of its parts. Even so, a transaction may be difficult
because of issues such as more than 7 billion euros of pension
and similar liabilities.  Gaining Traction?  A split-up of ThyssenKrupp may not be attractive for
shareholders, in part, because the steel operations are
“extremely volatile,” Hans-Peter Wodniok, an analyst at
Fairesearch GmbH, said in a phone interview from Kronberg near
Frankfurt.  Union Investment’s Schneider said ThyssenKrupp’s sum-of-the-parts value isn’t significantly higher than its current
price. While a breakup is conceivable, it would likely meet with
resistance from staff as well as politicians seeking to keep the
German company together, he said.  Before considering any breakup moves, ThyssenKrupp needs to
focus on its restructuring efforts, improve its free  cash flow 
and repair its balance sheet, Alessandro Abate, an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in an Oct. 29 report.  Even so, Abate said a split into two pieces -- capital
goods and materials -- is conceivable in two years’ time and the
two entities could have a combined worth of more than 35 euros a
share.  A break-up scenario “may gain traction if Cevian further
increases its stake,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  