-- Lytro Raises $40 Million After Leadership Change at Camera Maker
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2013-11-20T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/lytro-raises-40-million-after-leadership-change-at-camera-maker.html
Lytro Inc., the maker of a camera
that lets pictures be refocused after they are taken, pulled in
an additional $40 million in funding to release a redesigned
device and get its technology into smartphones.  Lytro has now raised a total of $90 million from investors
such as North Bridge Venture Partners and Andreessen Horowitz.
The company will unveil a successor to its current harmonica-box-shaped digital  camera  in the first half of 2014, Chief
Executive Officer Jason Rosenthal said in an interview.  The startup’s technology includes software to change the
focal point of a photo or view a shot in 3D. Sales of its first
device sputtered, leading to the replacement of founder Ren Ng
as CEO. The new product will look more like a traditional camera
with a touch-screen display on the back, said a person with
knowledge of its development, who asked not to be identified
because the details aren’t public.  “The first product was all about getting light field
technology out of the lab in Stanford and into the hands of
consumers,” said Rosenthal, who joined Lytro in April after
working as an operating executive at private equity firm Silver
Lake Partners and CEO of social network Ning. He wouldn’t
comment on the new product’s design beyond saying, “it’s
awesome.”  Light Field  The original Lytro, priced at $399 to $499, was the first
commercially available camera to harness technology known as
light field photography, born out of founder Ng’s specialty as a
computer-science graduate student at  Stanford University . The
camera’s lens consists of thousands of microlenses, each of
which captures a slightly different slice of light. One picture
captures so much information that a user can adjust the photo in
various ways after it’s been shot, such as shifting the focus
from foreground to background.  Apple Inc. co-founder  Steve Jobs  had Ng over to his home in
 Palo Alto ,  California , to see a demonstration of the technology.  Rosenthal said Lytro’s technology has broader uses than a
traditional camera, citing its potential appeal for Hollywood
filmmakers, medical-device makers or smartphone manufacturers.
Because the software allows greater manipulation after a photo
is taken, it doesn’t require gear like long-range lenses, he
said.  “We’re capturing a much richer data set than has ever been
possible before in photography,” he said.  Lytro, based in  Mountain View , California, released its
first product last year. In the latest financing round, funders
include North Bridge -- a new investor -- along with Andreessen
Horowitz,  New Enterprise Associates  and  Greylock Partners .
Rosenthal wouldn’t disclose the company’s valuation.  Smartphone Cameras  The company still faces challenges to its business -- the
device is expensive for an unknown technology, and people are
increasingly satisfied taking pictures with phones rather than
having a traditional point-and-shoot camera. A rival company,
Pelican Imaging, has similar technology and is focused on
licensing to mobile-phone manufacturers rather than releasing a
camera.  Lytro is one of a batch of startups that are building their
own hardware, a much different task than companies that focus on
building an iPhone application or website. Unlike at an Internet
or software startup, designing and manufacturing a device is
more capital-intensive, requiring the company to buy components
from different suppliers and then find a manufacturer to build
the product on time and within a budget.  Some young hardware companies are gaining traction, like
Nest Labs Inc., the maker of an automated thermostat, which was
founded by former Apple executive Tony Fadell. Others have been
slower to take off, such as education-tablet maker Kno Inc., a
startup that was recently acquired by  Intel Corp. (INTC)  after failing
to find an audience.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , is an investor
in Andreessen Horowitz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  