-- Yuan Three-Month Forwards Rise to Record as PBOC Pledges Changes
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-11-20T09:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-20/yuan-three-month-forwards-rise-to-record-as-pboc-pledges-changes.html
The  yuan ’s three-month forwards
touched a record high after  China ’s central bank strengthened
the daily fixing to a record and elaborated on plans to ease
 exchange-rate  controls.  The People’s Bank of China will “basically” end normal
intervention in the  currency market  and widen the yuan’s trading
band, Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  wrote in a book explaining reforms
outlined at a Communist Party meeting last week. The PBOC raised
the  reference rate  0.02 percent to 6.1305 per dollar, the
strongest since a peg to the greenback was removed in 2005.
Moves in the spot rate in Shanghai are limited to 1 percent on
either side.  “The market remains very positive on the Chinese yuan,
especially in the offshore market,” said Irene Cheung, a
Singapore-based currency strategist at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. “The statement by the PBOC confirmed things
that the market has been expecting.”  Three-month non-deliverable forwards advanced 0.1 percent
to 6.1280 per dollar, a 0.6 percent discount to the onshore rate
as of 5:23 p.m. in  Hong Kong , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. They touched 6.1252 earlier, the strongest level on
record. The 12-month contracts were steady at 6.1452.  Yuan Band  The onshore spot rate in Shanghai was little changed at
6.0929 per dollar, a 0.6 percent  premium  to the daily fixing,
China Foreign Exchange Trade System prices show. The offshore
yuan slipped 0.04 percent to 6.0670 in Hong Kong after touching
a record 6.0567 yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The yuan’s daily trading range will be widened in an
“orderly way” as China seeks to enhance the currency’s two-way
flexibility, Zhou wrote in the book. The nation will also phase
out investment caps for both domestic and foreign investors, he
said. In the U.S., Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
yesterday the benchmark  interest rate  will probably stay low
long after the bond-buying program ends.  China will broaden the yuan’s limit to 1.5 percent or 2
percent “in the next few months,” Credit Agricole CIB Hong
Kong-based strategist Dariusz Kowalczyk wrote in a research note
today.  The onshore yuan’s one-month implied volatility, a measure
of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
dropped four basis points to 1.65 percent, after jumping 15
basis points yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The measure touched 1.79 percent earlier, the highest since the
beginning of July  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  