-- ‘American Idiot,’ Iron Man, Skating Rinks: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-12-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/-american-idiot-iron-man-skating-rinks-london-weekend.html
The “ American Idiot ” has crossed
the Atlantic.  The rock opera based on Green Day’s blockbuster 2004 punk
album is blasting through a short run that ends this weekend.  The show is on an international tour before it gets turned
into a movie. On stage, the trio of stars lead parallel lives --
in the army, in a big city, in a small town. They find pleasure
and pain in money, love, drugs, and of course Green Day’s music.  HMV Hammersmith Apollo, 45 Queen Caroline Street, W6 9QH,
until Dec. 16. Information: +44-844-844-4748 or
 http://venues.meanfiddler.com/apollo/home .  Saturday  Step inside the  iron man .  Sculptor Antony Gormley has produced a 110-ton self-
portrait using joined-up steel blocks that you walk through. The
structure is a pixelated, horizontal version of Gormley. Before
you go in, a gallery attendant makes you sign a paper that asks
you to move carefully, stoop where necessary, and never climb.  You enter “Model” via the artist’s foot, and make your
way into dim chambers that could be his thighs. The structure
then turns into architecture: a spacious loft that you can see
yourself living in, with skylights and mezzanines.  By the time you reach the final enclosure, with its stage-
like elevation, make sure you take the narrow entrance. It
represents the inside of Gormley’s head, and is ominously dark.  “ Antony Gormley : Model” ends on Feb. 10 at  White Cube 
Gallery, 144-152 Bermondsey Street,  London  SE1 3TQ. Information:
 http://www.whitecube.com  or +44-20-7930-5373.  Saturday Night  Two aristocratic sisters squabble about what to do with
their crumbling chateau.  Lady Dorothy Stacpoole (Frances de la Tour) is one of the
sisters in “People,” the new Alan Bennett play at the National
Theatre. She’s all in favor of selling the edifice to a greedy
business consortium. Her archdeacon sibling (Selina Cadell)
would rather have hordes of paying visitors cover the bills,
care of the National Trust.  As an interim solution, Dorothy hires out the premises to a
film crew. A bunch of men barge in to shoot what turns out to be
a pornographic work, subtly titled “Reach for the Thigh.”  Performances are excellent. Information:
 http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk/  or +44-20-7452-3000.  The National Theatre is surrounded by chain restaurants and
cafes, yet it can be hard to get a really good meal. Skylon may
be the best of the bunch, with its river views and cooking by
Finnish chef Helena Puolakka. There’s a formal dining room and a
brasserie, depending on your mood and what you want to spend.
Information:  http://www.danddlondon.com/  or +44-20-7654-7800.  Sunday  The Ice Age has returned to London.  Skating rinks are popping up at some of the city’s best-
known landmarks: in the grand 18th-century courtyard of  Somerset
House , outside the dinosaur-filled Natural History Museum, and
in the iced-over moat of the Tower of London, where  Henry VIII 
had all that head chopping done centuries back. So get your
winter blades on -- and be prepared to pay for the privilege.  Information:  http://somersethouse.org.uk ;
 http://www.nhmskating.com ;  http://www.toweroflondonicerink.com .  If you choose the Tower of London, Rosemary Lane is a
charming and very low-key nearby restaurant that’s worth seeking
out. Chef Cristina Anghelescu might be a celebrity if she didn’t
spend so much time in her kitchen, cooking. Information: +44-20-
7481-2602 or  http://www.rosemarylanerestaurant.co.uk   Otherwise, you can watch an Oscar-winning movie about a
memorable meal: “Babette’s Feast,” the 1987 classic, returns
to the screens after restoration by the  British Film Institute .
Catch it in theaters around London starting this weekend.  Information:  http://www.bfi.org.uk/news-opinion/bfi-film -
releases/babette-s-feast.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Richard Vines on the best mince
pies and Frederik Balfour on Singapore art galleries.  To contact the writers on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 