-- A Tragedy, but No Surprise, in Connecticut
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-14T23:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/a-tragedy-but-no-surprise-in-connecticut.html
Are you surprised by the  massacre  at
Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown,  Connecticut ? We didn’t
think so. Heartbroken? Yes. But surprised?  We will search the news for a full accounting of the lost
lives and shattered families. We will comb through the details.
Will we stumble on the reason we keep enduring such sorrow?
Where is the  National Rifle Association  to comfort us in this
moment of disconsolation? Where is the evidence that our freedom
can be purchased only by having the right to own 100 million
guns?  We must have guns openly displayed, concealed guns, tiny
pink handguns. The mentally unsafe and the psychologically
unsound, the angry and the alienated, all must have access to
iron, copper and graphite. Background checks, sales
restrictions,  taggants  -- no limits can be placed on freedom.  President  Barack Obama  said what we’ve come to expect in
these moments, expressing a calibrated measure of one part
horror, two parts sorrow. We know he was sincere. But he lost us
when he said: “We’re going to have to come together and take
meaningful action to prevent more tragedies like this,
regardless of the politics.”  Are we? If meaningful action could occur “regardless of
politics,” it would’ve taken place many thousands of homicides
ago. It is pure political cowardice that has stood in the way of
“meaningful action” -- the abject capitulation of the nation’s
political class to the gun lobby. Even Justice  Antonin Scalia 
has acknowledged that the Second Amendment is not absolute. “We
do not read the Second Amendment to protect the right of
citizens to carry arms for any sort of confrontation,” he wrote
in  District of Columbia v. Heller.  Yet in  Washington  and state
legislatures across the country, the NRA’s agenda holds sway.  So what do we do? We train our police and first-responders
and trauma teams to get better at rescue. They do increasingly
excellent work. Response times in Connecticut and in the fatal
shootings at a shopping mall in  Oregon  earlier this week were
said to be lightning fast. From the year’s shootings -- the Sikh
temple in  Wisconsin , the movie theater in Colorado -- the grief
counselors have learned more and more.  It’s hard to imagine a sadder, more unsatisfying patch --
the available solution to the slaughter of innocents is our
ability to get better at cleaning the wounds and burying the
dead. Until America’s leaders take on the gun lobby, until a
president expends political capital on meaningful action, we
will get better at mourning still.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 