-- ABB Mirrors Siemens in Purge of Power Transmission Business
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-12-14T15:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/abb-mirrors-siemens-in-purge-of-power-transmission-business-1-.html
ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  will undertake a $350
million overhaul of its power-systems business to eliminate low-
margin contracts in solar-energy and sewage as it follows
competitor  Siemens AG (SIE)  in purging costs.  Performance at the business has been below expectations,
even with significant investments over the past three years, the
Zurich-based company said today. Power systems will book $100
million of restructuring expenses in the fourth quarter.  “Power systems is not generating consistent returns at the
level we expect - this has to change,” Chief Executive Officer
Joe Hogan said on a call. “We are being more selective on
projects, which also means raising prices.”  ABB and Siemens are reassessing the profitability of big-
ticket grid projects as delays connecting offshore wind parks
and price-competition from Asian rivals eat into margins.
Siemens said Dec. 11 it will cut 1,900 job cuts in power
transmission by 2015 as it seeks 1.1 billion euros ($1.4
billion) of savings.  “Power Systems has been the division with the lowest
margins,” said Panagiotis Spiliopoulos, an analyst with Bank
Vontobel in Zurich who has a buy rating on the stock. “We hence
welcome this step and will review our estimates.”  ABB shares were little changed at 18.78 francs as of 4:06
p.m. in Zurich. They’ve gained 10 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 43 billion francs ($47 billion).  Offshore Connection  The world’s largest power-grid makers are grappling with
issues tying offshore wind farms to the grid, which contributed
to Munich-based Siemens cutting a profit goal earlier this year.
Charges linked to ABB’s Dolwin I offshore wind connection may
rise above the $50 million earlier forecast, Chief Financial
Officer Michel Demare said on the call.  Hogan promised Oct. 25 to revive Power System’s flagging
performance after saying the unit wouldn’t meet meet a medium-
term operating margin target of 7 percent to 11 percent of sales
this year as he forecast more project-related charges.  The world’s largest maker of power transformers expects
$350 million less in earnings before interest and taxes in the
fourth quarter as it scales down projects in markets from the
 Czech Republic  to the  Philippines , ABB spokesman  Thomas Schmidt 
said by telephone.  ABB had previously pursued these orders as an opportunity
to also sell its own motor-drives and control systems, he said.
Many  emerging markets  contracts “depended on teams to execute
contracts that didn’t have the experience or capability to do
it,” Hogan said on the call. ABB will continue to look at
projects if the risks are acceptable, Schmidt said.  Lower Risk  ABB will pull out of risky projects dominated by sub-
contractors and may exit this power systems segment in some
countries altogether, Hogan said.  ABB raised the unit’s medium-term operating-margin target
to 9 percent to 12 percent from 7 percent to 11 percent, and
expects the division to reach the lower end of the new target by
the fourth quarter of 2013. At the same time, it cut a sales
growth target by 3 percentage points to 7 percent to 11 percent
to reflect increased project selectivity.  Associated costs will be paid back within 2 1/2 years and
the group’s 2015 targets remained unchanged, ABB said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  