-- Macquarie Mexico IPO Offers REIT Where Murder Reigned
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-12-14T21:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/macquarie-mexico-ipo-offers-reit-where-murder-reigned.html
The biggest real-estate investment
trust to go public in Mexico is staking its success on the city
most ravaged by the nation’s drug war.  The 14.7 billion peso ($1.2 billion) initial public
offering from  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  is the first Mexican REIT to
focus on northern Mexico, with the biggest share of its holdings
in Juarez, where the homicide rate peaked at 230 per 100,000
residents in 2010, according to a prospectus. Macquarie Mexico
Real Estate Management SA, which priced its IPO yesterday, will
allocate 16 percent of its portfolio to Juarez, while 76 percent
of the properties overall are in the northern border area used
as a corridor for cocaine and marijuana shipments to the U.S.  REITs are drawing investors because they can provide
cheaper, more abundant funding than the mortgage market, where
rates still hover above 10 percent. The Macquarie IPO will bring
financing to a region still recovering from a surge in drug-gang
fueled crime. While the bloodshed deterred new tenants, most
established companies held their ground during the most violent
years, setting the stage for growth as the pace of killings
slows in Juarez, said Eduardo Guemez, who manages about $400
million in Mexican properties for  LaSalle Investment Management .  “New tenants were reluctant to even consider Juarez”
because of the crime, said Guemez, whose holdings include
industrial properties in the border city, in a telephone
interview from Mexico City. With crime declining, companies are
likely to reconsider their aversion to Juarez, because it’s “an
extremely important and strategic city” for manufacturers.  Paula Chirhart, a New York-based spokeswoman with
Macquarie, declined to comment on the trust’s investments in
northern Mexico.  Shares Rise  Macquarie Mexico Real Estate Management rose 0.2 percent to
25.04 pesos on its opening day in Mexico City trading. The
shares were sold at 25 pesos each in an offering that raised
12.8 billion pesos, and the total may climb to as much as 14.7
billion pesos including the so-called greenshoe option for
underwriters to buy additional shares, according to a stock
exchange filing. The share price was at the bottom of the
proposed range of 25 pesos to 29 pesos.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  helped manage the deal.  The trust’s initial portfolio was appraised at $1.41
billion to $1.51 billion by Colliers International, the
prospectus said. After Juarez, the second-biggest holding by
city was Reynosa, which like Juarez sits across the border from
 Texas  and accounts for about 10 percent of the portfolio.  Industrial Rents  Rents on industrial properties in Mexican border states are
down as much as 20 percent since their peak in 2007, according
to Prudential Real Estate Investors. That compares with a
decline of 15 percent for  U.S. industrial  rental space from that
year, CBRE Group Inc. data show.  Murders in Juarez dropped 63 percent in the first 11 months
of the year, according to data compiled by the state
prosecutor’s office. There were 27 homicides last month in the
city of 1.3 million people, the fewest since at least 2008,
according to the data, which doesn’t account for missing people
and other unsolved crimes.  The Sinaloa cartel’s move to seize the city from the Juarez
gang helped fuel an uptick in murders that peaked in 2010, when
it registered massacres of more than a dozen people at a time
and killers sometimes beheaded their victims before leaving
their bodies to fester, according to the Mexican government’s
public security ministry.  Gunmen Stormed  In January of that year, gunmen stormed a party and killed
15 people, many of them children. That May, a groom was
kidnapped and slain on his wedding day. In July, the drug war
escalated as a car bomb was detonated.  The index of violent crime has fallen since the July 2011
capture of Jose Antonio Acosta Hernandez, one of the Juarez
cartel’s leaders, an arrest that then-President  Felipe Calderon 
called the government’s biggest victory yet in the city. Acosta
Hernandez, or “El Diego,” was sentenced this year to life in a
U.S. prison in connection with the killing of a U.S. consulate
worker in Juarez, also in 2010. He confessed to ordering more
than 1,500 executions.  “It seems like the very dangerous levels” of crime are
retreating,  Mario Copca , an equity analyst at Mexico City-based
Metanalisis SA, said in a telephone interview. “The Macquarie
IPO could be a good opportunity, above all because it’s in a
region with factories that are essential for Mexico.”  Mexican REITs  The Macquarie offering adds to a Mexican REIT market that
has more than tripled in size this year, according to market
capitalization data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fibra Uno Administracion SA, whose properties include
shopping malls and office buildings, sold shares in an 8.9
billion peso follow-on sale in March, and hotel owner
Concentradora Fibra Hotelera Mexicana SA carried out a 3.6
billion peso initial public offering last month. That helped
push the total market capitalization of the industry to 34
billion pesos.  Trustee Asesor de Activos Prisma SAPI has also filed to
carry out an IPO in Mexico.  Buyers interested in investment properties have been drawn
to the nation’s REITS as some  mortgage rates  dipped below 10
percent this year. While rates are down from near 13 percent in
2009, Copca said the cost of financing remains prohibitive.  Mexican Mortgages  The 10.1 percent expansion in the Mexican mortgage market
in September was outpaced by overall bank lending in the
country, which expanded 12.5 percent in the 12 months through
September, according to the nation’s securities and banking
regulator. Credit card debt grew at 16.3 percent, according to
the regulator known as CNBV.  Geoffrey Pazzanese, who helps manage $750 million at
Federated Investors Inc. including Mexican stocks, says he’s
avoiding investments with high exposure to the U.S.-Mexico
border, and recent data isn’t enough to allay his concerns about
security in the region.  “The perception is that the violence will continue to be
an issue for some time,” Pazzanese said in a telephone
interview from  New York . “It’s going to take some years for
market perceptions to change around that front. In terms of our
thinking about it, we’re trying to avoid companies with a lot of
assets in the border area.”  The most recent Mexican government date available, which
was last released in 2011, shows at least 47,500 had been killed
in drug violence since ex-President Calderon took office vowing
to crack down on the drug trade. Other sources say the figure is
much higher, with  Mexico  City-based newspaper Milenio estimating
11,412 people have died this year alone from the drug violence,
pushing the total to 58,398 since December 2006, according to a
Dec. 1 report.  Reducing Violence  President Enrique Pena Nieto took office on Dec. 1 pledging
in part to reduce Mexico’s violence, without saying how he’d
change Calderon’s military-based approach.  The peak in drug-gang violence hit northern Mexico as the
region was still smarting from the U.S. recession, which helped
cause a 6.2 percent contraction in Mexico in 2009.  Latin
America ’s second-biggest economy will expand 3.5 percent next
year, its fourth straight year of growth, according to the
median estimate of 24 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Rodrigo Meza, a portfolio manager at Prudential Real Estate
Investors, which oversees about $2.6 billion in Mexican
properties, says Juarez and other northern markets are starting
to beat the stigma that held back the market’s recovery after
the U.S.-fueled recession.  “We have seen an industrial recovery in northern Mexico,”
Meza said by phone from Mexico City. “The appetite and the
understanding of the Juarez market is getting better and
better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  