-- Afghanistan, Pakistan Draft Plan for Talks With Taliban
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2012-12-14T06:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/afghanistan-pakistan-draft-plan-for-talks-with-taliban.html
Afghanistan and  Pakistan  are
pursuing a new peace initiative that would permit members of the
Taliban to be removed from the United Nations terrorist list to
join negotiations and hold Afghan government posts.  The five-step blueprint, entitled “ Peace Process  Roadmap
to 2015,” was initiated by Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  in
coordination with Pakistan and formally presented to Pakistani
officials last month by Salahuddin Rabbani, the chairman of
Afghanistan’s High Peace Council, Azizullah Din Mohammad, a
senior council member, said in a phone interview yesterday.  The draft plan, first reported by McClatchy Newspapers,
says Taliban who join the Afghan government or take part in
national, parliamentary or provincial elections must sever any
ties to al-Qaeda, renounce violence, and respect the Afghan
Constitution, said a U.S. official familiar with the proposals.  Speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss private
diplomatic communications, the official said the plan almost
certainly would give the ultra-conservative Islamic movement de
facto control of Pashtun-dominated areas of southern and eastern
Afghanistan. That, the official said, would have troubling
implications for  women’s rights , the education of girls and
efforts to crack down on opium poppy growing.  The plan calls for Pakistan, rather than the U.S., to
arrange direct talks in  Saudi Arabia  between Taliban
representatives and the Afghan government next year after an
Afghan cease-fire is in place.  “It diminishes the U.S. role in coordinating the talks,
but it does not mean we won’t respect U.S. peace efforts at
all,” said Din Mohammad, a former warlord who fought the  Soviet
Union  in the 1980s and participated in talks on the plan last
month in Pakistan.  Direct Talks  The U.S. continues to support an Afghan-led peace process
and welcomes initiatives through which Afghans sit down with
other Afghans in pursuit of that goal, said a State Department
official, speaking on condition of anonymity.  In order to facilitate direct talks, the blueprint calls
for Pakistan to release more Taliban prisoners by the first half
of 2013, while the two countries and the U.S. push the  United
Nations  to remove Taliban leaders willing to engage in peace
talks from the terrorism list, an official of the peace council
said on condition of anonymity. They then would be given safe
passage to participate in negotiations, the official said.  Travel Waivers  In June 2011, the UN Security Council split the
international sanctions regime for al-Qaeda and the Taliban to
encourage the Taliban to join reconciliation efforts. There now
is one blacklist of individuals and organizations accused of
links to al-Qaeda and a second -- with 132 names -- for those
linked to the Taliban.  The Afghans have asked the council to streamline its
procedures to allow individuals on the Taliban list to travel
for peace talks. Although it’s sometimes honored in the breach,
the existing process for granting waivers is extremely
cumbersome, and a move to facilitate temporary exemptions, to
which all 15 council members must agree, will come up for a
decision on Dec. 17.  The Afghan government has long considered Pakistan a
hindrance to peace because the Taliban and other militant
Islamist groups have bases there and receive financing from the
 Persian Gulf  and elsewhere through Pakistani channels. Karzai
said an assassination attempt last week on Asadullah Khalid, the
director of the Afghan intelligence service was planned in
Pakistan, though not by the Taliban.  Positive Role  Nevertheless, members of the Afghan peace council said
Pakistan also can play a positive role.  “Because it backs insurgents, that’s why the country can
also encourage them for peace,” Mohammad Ismail Qasimyar,
another senior member of the peace council, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “No country, including the U.S., can help
 Afghanistan  with its peace plans except Pakistan.”  “The Taliban leadership and Taliban sanctuaries are all
based in Pakistan, and they know very well how to put forward
our peace efforts and bring them to the negotiating table,” he
said. “We must not forget Pakistan’s effective role, and
without their help we cannot achieve peace.”  The U.S. is due to withdraw the majority of its combat
troops by the end of 2014. Afghan and U.S. officials have
accused Pakistan of allowing Taliban militants and allied
guerrillas groups sanctuary on its soil in a bit to ensure it
has a pivotal role in determining Afghanistan’s future.  Vulnerable Borders  “Pakistan now feels more secure as it’s got a leading role
in Afghanistan’s end game,”  Talat Masood , a retired army
lieutenant general and security analyst in Islamabad, said of
the talks plan. “Pakistan’s main concern was that if it’s left
out in this peace process, a future set-up in Kabul will be a
hostile one, making its western borders vulnerable.”  Pakistan has realized that it should not limit its outreach
in Afghanistan to the Pashtun population, Masood said. “That’s
a game changer which has also softened up opposition within the
Karzai regime for Pakistan.”  Pakistan has made a “welcome shift” toward implementing
what the blueprint proposes, Din Mohammad said. “Pakistan did
not ignore our enduring peace plan, but instead they promised
they would help implement our plan and they freed several
Taliban prisoners last month in order to endorse our plan.”  “If the plan succeeds, then we will have a permanent
peace. And if it is not implemented, the country’s 2014
situation will be the worst ever,” he said.  Turkey Talks  Karzai and Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari have
discussed the plan in Ankara,  Turkey , this week, and U.S.
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta , visiting Afghanistan, said
Karzai had accepted an invitation from President  Barack Obama  to
visit  Washington  during the week of Jan. 7.  The next Afghan-Pakistani meeting “will be held in the
near future by the two countries’ officials, including our
Islamic and religious scholars, and that may be held in Kabul,”
Din Mohammad said.  “It’s not clear whether this power-sharing offer will
attract hard-line Taliban to start negotiations,” said Masood
in a phone interview today. “This is an attempt to split
moderate Taliban from the hardliners -- and it might work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  