-- Air Cargo Slowdown Puts Squeeze on Specialist Carriers
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-12-14T16:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/air-cargo-slowdown-puts-squeeze-on-specialist-carriers.html
Dedicated air-freight operators are
struggling to remain viable as a sluggish economy undermines
their ability to compete with the cargo space on offer from
carriers focused on the more buoyant passenger market.  Companies such as Cargolux Airlines International SA,
 Europe ’s top freight-only carrier, are reviewing their business
models, while  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , which runs a cargo-only
unit alongside its passenger routes, has idled planes.  The utilization of freighter aircraft has slumped below 42
percent as capacity far outstrips demand, the  International Air
Transport Association  said yesterday. That’s forcing cargo
specialists to target marginal markets where they don’t have to
compete with hold space available from passenger operators.  “For the pure freight guys it is going to be tough,” Niko
Herrmann, an aviation specialist at  Oliver Wyman  in Zurich, said
in an interview. “Carriers may be forced to seek partnerships
and consolidate to gain scale, or to exit the market.”  Recent examples of partnerships prompted by tougher markets
include a linkup between AirBridgeCargo Airlines, the scheduled
freight division of Russian heavy-lift specialist Volga-Dnepr
Airlines, and Air Cargo  Germany  GmbH, Herrman said.  Forecasts from IATA, which represents 240 airlines, suggest
there’s little chance of an earnings rebound in the $70 billion
market any time soon, with cargo yields, a measure of prices,
expected to drop 2 percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2013.  FedEx, UPS  As the economic crisis drags into a fifth year, planes are
flying with only 44 percent of cargo space taken up, including
belly capacity on passenger jets, with the market essentially
“stagnant,” IATA Chief Executive Officer  Tony Tyler  said.  Volumes of high-value goods, a staple of international air
freight, have declined as people rein in spending, said Rafael
Echevarne, economics director at  Airports Council International .  While overall freight demand remains flat, air shipments
have contracted by 1.2 percent this year, according to ACI.
That’s been reflected at major hubs, with a 13.1 percent slump
at Anchorage in  Alaska , a base for  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS) , the two biggest cargo carriers with volumes of
6.87 million tons and 4.64 million tons respectively last year.  Incheon airport, the main hub for  Korean Air Lines Co. (003490) , had
a 1.9 percent fall. The carrier ranks fourth worldwide by cargo
tonnage and second among companies that are also passenger
operators, behind Cologne, Germany-based Lufthansa.  Even where demand for high-end products remains robust,
manufacturers such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  are still switching to less
costly surface transport for some shipments of items such as
iPhones and iPads, making customers wait, Wyman’s Herrmann said.  Consolidation  Cargo-only operators have responded by targeting “whole
new product flows” in markets such as  Turkey ,  Africa  and  South
America , Bill Flynn, CEO of  Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings Inc. (AAWW) ,
told investors last month. Purchase, New York-based Atlas is the
world’s largest operator of  Boeing Co. (BA)  747 freighters.  Herrmann said that while adding new markets and being “very
smart” about optimizing route networks can aid independent
carriers, pockets of growth tend to be quickly flooded with
capacity, driving down prices and profitability.  That’s fostering mergers, he said, citing the 49 percent
stake in Frankfurt Hahn-airport-based Air Cargo Germany taken by
AirBridgeCargo this year. Following the deal ACG’s fleet of four
 747 freighters  grew to six with the transfer of two jets from
its Russian investor, according to a statement issued Sept. 11.  Gulf Orders  Fresh opportunities are likely to become harder to find as
IATA’s projection of 5.3 percent compound annual growth in
travel encourages carriers to extend record aircraft orders.  Though spurred by passenger demand, models such as  Airbus
SAS’s (EAD)  A350 and the Boeing 787, as well as older 777s and A330s,
offer ample hold space that will deepen the cargo-capacity glut.  “These aircraft are cargo-friendly in terms of available
belly-hold capacity per seat,” said Marco Bloemen, an aviation
analyst at Seabury Group. “With the number expected, capacity
augmentation will be significant for four years at least.”  Boeing’s assembly lines are churning out 777s at a record
pace of 8.3 a month and are due to produce 10 787s over the same
period. Airbus is likewise ramping up A330 output to 10 a month,
also a record, and may go to 11 on the strength of China orders.  Dubai-based Emirates, the No. 1 operator of both the 777
and Airbus A380 superjumbo, may overtake Lufthansa as the
world’s biggest cargo-carrying passenger airline next year on
the strength of its passenger-plane orders alone.  Emirates will already offer 4.1 percent capacity than
Lufthansa this year, excluding the latter’s Swiss unit, Andreas Otto, the German company’s head of cargo sales, said this month.  Cargolux Review  Flagging demand and a night-flight ban in  Frankfurt  led
sales at the Lufthansa Cargo business to slump 9.7 percent in
the first nine months, with operating profit tumbling 62 percent
to 66 million euros ($86 million). The carrier has responded by
grounding capacity equal to two of its Boeing MD-11 freighters.  Independents are also feeling the pinch. Luxembourg-based
Cargolux has initiated a review that may include job cuts, and
Qatar Airways Ltd. is seeking to sell a 35 percent holding
following a spat with the duchy’s government over strategy.  Qatar Air, the second-biggest Gulf carrier, bought its
stake only last year as part of a push to become a major freight
operator by 2015. Cargolux, founded in 1970 and the first
operator of Boeing’s 747-8 freighter, lost $18 million in 2011
and has been unprofitable in three of the past four years.  Even though air-cargo demand is expected to increase 1.4
percent next year, that will provide little boost to an industry
that has suffered a 2 percent decline in 2012, IATA’s Tyler
said. The market has lost about half a decade’s growth during
the slump, with volumes back at 2007 levels, IATA figures show.  In 2013, Atlas’s Flynn sees a “slight contraction” versus
2012, with demand sluggish in the first half and improving in
the second, though like IATA, he expects a strong revival in the
longer term, buoyed by Asian growth. The question is whether
today’s cargo specialists will be around the reap the benefits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  