-- Alibaba, Sohu Sites Removed From U.S. ‘Notorious Markets’
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-14T03:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/alibaba-sohu-sites-removed-from-u-s-notorious-markets-.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and
 Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  had their websites removed from a U.S. government
piracy list after the Chinese companies reduced inclusions of
infringing products.  Alibaba’s Taobao site was taken off the “Notorious
Markets” list after significantly decreasing the sale of
infringing products, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative
said in a  report  yesterday. Sohu’s Sogou site reportedly made
“notable efforts” to limit infringing content, it said.  The companies join  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , which was removed last year
from the list highlighting more than 30 physical and online
markets that deal in infringing goods and services. Other
Chinese websites should take similar actions to ensure the
omission of listings for sales of pirated or counterfeit goods,
the U.S. report said.  “I applaud the actions that some markets have taken to
begin ridding their virtual and physical marketplaces of pirated
and counterfeit goods,” U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  said
in a statement. “It is through both voluntary and government
actions” that the landscape for protection of intellectual
property will improve, he said.  Alibaba’s Taobao has committed to continue working to
further reduce listings of counterfeit products, the trade
office said.  “The intellectual property rights issue in  China  is a long
march,” John Spelich, a spokesman at Alibaba, said in an e-mail
today. “This is a milestone and it is only the beginning.”  Jiang Xin, a spokeswoman for Sohu, said she couldn’t
immediately comment on the report.  The  Philippines ’ Quiapo shopping district was also removed
from the list after the government took “significant
enforcement actions” that reduced the number of counterfeit and
pirated goods for sale in the market, the report said.  Inclusion on the list doesn’t reflect a violation of the
law, according to the report.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  