-- Alior Jumps After Record IPO by Private Polish Company
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2012-12-14T19:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/alior-jumps-after-record-ipo-by-private-polish-company.html
Alior Bank SA (ALR)  jumped on its first
day of trading on the  Warsaw Stock Exchange  after selling 2.1
billion zloty ($672 million) of shares in the biggest initial
public offering by a private Polish company.  The shares rose as much as 8.4 percent and ended the day
6.8 percent higher at 60.9, valuing the bank at 3.9 billion
zloty. The Warsaw-based lender sold 36.8 million shares in this
month’s IPO at 57 zloty each, or at the lower end of its  price
range . The benchmark WIG20 Index rose 0.7 percent today, closing
at the highest since August 2011 and extending this month’s gain
to 4.8 percent.  “The sentiment generally improved on the market and this
increase today is a modest gain for a company starting trade
after an IPO,” Marcin Materna, a Warsaw-based analyst at Bank
Millennium SA, said by phone today.  Alior, which owns  Poland ’s third-largest network, raised
700 million zloty from a new share sale to boost lending and
fight competition as Banco Santander SA and Polish billionaire
Leszek Czarnecki’s Getin Noble Bank SA step up expansion. Carlo
Tassara SpA, its founding company owned by French investor
 Romain Zaleski , sold 24.5 million shares and plans to find a
buyer for its remaining 34 percent stake in 2013 to cut debt.  Industry Investor  Tassara will start the search for an industry investor for
the bank in the first quarter of next year and expects to sell
its stake at a premium, Helene Zaleski, chairwoman of Alior’s
supervisory board, told reporters in Warsaw today.  Alior, whose IPO was the biggest in Poland since state-
owned coal producer Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA’s 5.37
billion-zloty sale in 2011 and the largest by a Polish company
owned by private investors, currently trades 1.8 times its book
value, according to Bloomberg calculations.  PKO Bank Polski SA (PKO)  and Bank Pekao SA, Poland’s two largest
banks, are valued 1.9 times their equity, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed.  With more than 680 branches, Alior has the biggest network
after state-controlled PKO Bank and UniCredit SpA’s Pekao. Its
net income almost tripled to 222.9 million zloty in the first
nine months of 2012 from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  