-- Manchester City Said Close to Being Awarded MLS Queens Team
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-12-15T13:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/manchester-city-said-close-to-becoming-owner-of-mls-queens-team.html
Manchester City , the English Premier
League team owned by Abu Dhabi’s Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed  Al Nahyan , is close to being awarded a Major League Soccer
expansion franchise in Queens,  New York , for a record $100
million, three people with direct knowledge of the talks said.  The team would be known as the New York City Football Club
and has contacted former England national team captain  David Beckham  about a role, two of the people said. Manchester City
will explore other leagues around the world, seeking a way to
expand its brand, two of the people said.  Manchester City, which won the Premier League last season,
will pay more than two times the previous record for an MLS
team, said the people, who requested anonymity because team and
stadium contracts aren’t signed.  MLS spokesman Dan Courtemanche said via telephone that the
league has held discussions with a number of possible ownership
groups and that no expansion agreement has been completed.  “Our discussions remain private,” he said.  Manchester City today denied it was to become an MLS owner.  “Manchester City are not buying an MLS club,” the club
said in a statement issued through Britain’s Press Association.  Paul Swangard , managing director of the Warsaw Sports
Marketing Center at the University of  Oregon , said in a
telephone interview that Manchester City’s involvement with MLS
“further validates the strength of the American soccer market
to the rest of the world.”  “It shows the league hasn’t plateaued,” he said. “To
have it happen now, post-Beckham, is great for the league.”  Stadium Plans  MLS Commissioner Don Garber said last month that the league
was “at the finish line” in negotiations with New York City
officials on the league’s plan to build a 25,000-seat home for a
new team based in Flushing Meadows Corona Park in Queens, east
of Manhattan. Garber said the league was talking to a “wide
variety” of potential owners, declining to name them. The park
already houses Citi Field, home of  Major League Baseball ’s  New
York Mets , and the National Tennis Center, home to the  U.S.
Open .  The previous high fee for an MLS expansion franchise was
$40 million for several teams.  Officials with Manchester City have spoken with
representatives of Beckham about having an unspecified role with
the team, two of the people said. Manchester City will sell a
minority share of the team to local investors, the people said.  Beckham, one of the best-known athletes in the world,
capped his MLS playing career this month with a second straight
championship as a member of the  Los Angeles Galaxy . Beckham
declined to say where he would be next season, adding that he
would continue to support soccer.  Beckham’s Commitment  “My commitment to this league, my commitment to this sport
and this country will continue to be the same as it was when I
came here six years ago,” said Beckham, who won league titles
with  Manchester United  in England and Real  Madrid  in Spain
before joining MLS in 2007.  MLS officials have been working for three years to bring a
new team to New York, creating a rivalry with the New York Red
Bulls, owned by Austrian energy-drink company Red Bull GmbH. The
Red Bulls, whose roster includes  Thierry Henry  of France and  Tim Cahill  of Australia, plays in a 25,000-seat stadium in Harrison,
 New Jersey , about a 20-minute train ride from  Wall Street .  “Clearly there’s enough space in New York for two or three
teams,” Red Bulls General Manager Jerome de Bontin said in a
Bloomberg Television interview on Dec. 10. “It would be
terrific to have that competition in New York.”  Soccer Hotbed  Flushing Meadows is bordered by the neighborhood of Corona,
where Mexicans, Ecuadoreans, Chileans and other Latinos help
make up one of New York’s most passionate soccer fan bases.  The soccer stadium would cost $300 million to $350 million
and be privately financed. MLS wants to start construction in
2014 and open the venue in 2016.  The last professional soccer team to play in the city was
the New York Cosmos of the North American Soccer League, who
popularized the game in the U.S. by signing international stars
such as Pele of Brazil and  Franz Beckenbauer  of Germany. The
Cosmos, started in 1971, played home games in three city venues,
the last one in 1976 at the old Yankee Stadium, before moving to
 Giants Stadium  in East Rutherford, New Jersey.  Manchester City yesterday cut its annual loss in half to
97.9 million pounds ($158 million) from last year, when it
reported the largest loss ever in English soccer.  City boosted sales to 231 million pounds in the 12 months
ended May 31, 2012, from 153 million pounds in the year-earlier
period. The team also benefited from 10.6 million pounds from
the sale of players.  Debt Restraints  The reduction from last year’s record loss of 197.5 million
pounds comes as European soccer’s ruling body tries to put
financial rules in place to prevent teams from becoming
overextended.  City is six points behind 19-time English champion
Manchester United in this season’s Premier League standings and
was eliminated from European competition after finishing last in
its Champions League group.  City has spent more than 500 million pounds on transfer
fees and salaries since Mansour bought the team in September
2008.  The team benefited from the start of a record 10-year
naming-rights agreement worth more than 300 million pounds with
Etihad,  Abu Dhabi ’s national airline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  