-- Apple Falls as UBS Projects Growth Slowdown: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-12-14T21:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/apple-falls-as-ubs-projects-growth-slowdown-for-iphone-ipad.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  fell to the lowest price
in almost ten months after Steven Milunovich, an analyst at UBS
AG, cut his price estimate to $700 from $780, citing concern
that growth may slow for the iPhone and iPad.  Apple  dropped  3.8 percent to $509.79 at the close in New
York, its lowest since Feb. 17. Shares of Cupertino, California-
based Apple have lost 27 percent since hitting an intraday
record high of $705.07 on Sept. 21.  Based on checks with Apple’s suppliers, Milunovich said
that the company is starting to curb production of the iPhone.
In China, the newest model of the handset, the iPhone 5, may not
sell as well the previous version did, he added. At the same
time, the iPad mini may siphon sales of Apple’s largest tablet,
compounding growth concerns, Milunovich said.  “Our previous growth estimates seem aggressive,”
Milunovich said in a research report today. He reduced his
earnings per share projection for fiscal 2013 to $47 from
$51.50.  In another sign that growth is slowing, Apple component
suppliers have received order cuts in the last 24 to 48 hours,
 Peter Misek , an analyst at Jefferies & Co. wrote in a research
report today.  The cost of Apple options relative to other technology
companies has risen to a four-year high, reflecting concern the
iPhone and iPad maker’s dominance may be threatened by rivals
such as Google Inc. and  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)   Slower Growth  Demand to hedge against losses in Apple shares has
increased this year after Google made its first foray into the
tablet market with its Nexus 7 device and Nokia rolled out new
Lumia smartphone models to expand in Europe and Asia. The
competition is hurting Apple’s earnings, with analysts
predicting the slowest  profit growth  in a decade.  The share decline left Apple trading at a 22 percent
 discount  to the Standard & Poors 500 Information Technology
Sector Index on a price-to-earnings basis, compared with a
premium in September, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Concern that orders from Apple may slow hurt the stocks of
suppliers such as  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , Broadcom Corp.,  Skyworks
Solutions Inc. (SWKS) ,  Avago Technologies Ltd. (AVGO)  and  Cirrus Logic Inc. (CRUS)   Qualcomm, based in San Diego, is the biggest maker of chips
that connect phones to cellular networks. Qualcomm fell 4.7
percent to $59.83, its biggest one-day decline since April.
Broadcom, which makes chips that provide other short-range
wireless connections, fell 3.6 percent to $32.06.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  