-- Apple Stock Slide Endangers $241 Million of Structured Notes
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2012-12-14T20:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/apple-stock-slide-endangers-241-million-of-structured-notes.html
More than $241 million of structured
notes tied to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  face losses after a 27 percent drop in
the stock of the world’s most valuable company eroded built-in
cushions that protect investors.  Banks issued 76 U.S. notes linked to Apple stock during the
seven weeks starting Aug. 20 when the company was valued at $650
a share or more, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sixty-
three percent of the securities absorb as much as 20 percent of
stock price declines before investors are at risk of losing
principal or coupon payments, Bloomberg data show.  Banks issued $1.66 billion of notes in the U.S. tied to
Cupertino, California-based Apple this year, almost three times
as many as the year-earlier period, making it the most popular
underlying company, Bloomberg data show. Many of the securities
are so-called reverse convertibles, notes that pay a high coupon
while risking large losses if the share price plummets.  “If notes linked to Apple, especially reverse
convertibles, were sold correctly, there’s almost no risk of
investor confusion when the stock is down,” said John Tessar,
senior vice president at JVB Financial Group LLC in Boca Raton,
 Florida . The products, which convert to Apple shares if the
stock declines below the protection barrier, are sometimes
marketed as appropriate for investors who wouldn’t mind owning
the reference equity for the long term.  “With short-term investments like these, you would hope
that the investor would hold onto the investment and receive the
coupon unless their opinion of the stock has fundamentally
changed,” he said.  Below Par  JPMorgan Chase & Co. sold the largest security linked to
Apple during the seven-week period, $65.5 million of one-year
auto-callable notes on Aug. 30. Investors receive 13.56 percent
annually every three months, as long as the share price of Apple
is at least $531.25, or 80 percent of its initial value, with
the entire investment at risk, according to a  prospectus  filed
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The note is
redeemed automatically on certain dates if the stock has risen
above its starting level.  Apple fell $20.89, or 3.9 percent, to $508.80 at 2:50 p.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. It reached a high this year of
$702.10 on Sept. 19.  The note has traded below par since it was issued,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Investors exchanged the
securities at 83.3 cents on the dollar on Dec. 12, the lowest
price this year.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  