-- Ariad Sinks on Safety Warnings With U.S. Drug Approval
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-12-14T22:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/ariad-wins-approval-for-drug-to-treat-rare-leukemias-fda-says.html
Ariad Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARIA) , a
developer of cancer drugs, sank the most in more than four years
after the company’s cancer medicine received a warning label
with U.S. approval to treat two rare types of leukemia.  Ariad dropped 21 percent to $18.93 at the close in New
York, the biggest single-day decline since October 2008. The
shares of the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company had almost
doubled this year through yesterday.  The once-daily medicine, called Iclusig, was approved three
months ahead of schedule. It treats adults with chronic myeloid
leukemia and Philadelphia chromosome positive acute
lymphoblastic leukemia, two rare blood and bone marrow diseases,
the Food and Drug Administration said today in a  statement . The
drug will carry a warning on its informational materials, called
a black box, about dangers of liver toxicity and arterial
thrombosis, or blood clotting.  “Investors were surprised and disappointed by the presence
of a black box warning,” Phil Nadeau, an analyst with Cowen &
Co. in New York, wrote in a research note today. He said
investors are worried the warning will limit the drug’s use,
concerns he said may be overblown given physicians’ opinions
that Iclusig is “very well-tolerated.”  Iclusig is the third treatment for chronic myeloid leukemia
and second for acute lymphoblastic leukemia approved this year,
the FDA said. Those drugs are  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Bosulif,  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s Synribo and  Talon Therapeutics
Inc. (TLON) ’s Marqibo. Ariad’s therapy, previously known by its
chemical name ponatinib, was cleared for patients whose leukemia
is resistant or intolerant to a class of drugs called tyrosine
kinase inhibitors.  Offering Options  “While we don’t want to minimize the importance of the
warning for physicians to know about, what’s really important is
what Iclusig can offer patients with CML who really have limited
options,” Harvey Berger, Ariad’s chief executive officer, said
today in a telephone interview. “The strong, robust efficacy
data is what’s going to make a huge difference to patients with
CML. The boxed warning will have no impact on the use of the
medicine.”  The company has targeted $600 million to $800 million in
annual sales by 2017 to 2018, Berger said in an interview Dec.
4, and he reiterated that forecast today. The medicine will be
on the market in two weeks, he said. “We’re ready to go.”  Iclusig works by blocking certain proteins that promote the
development of cancerous cells, the FDA said. It targets  chronic
myeloid leukemia  cells that have the particularly tricky
mutation known as T315I that makes cells resistant to currently
approved tyrosine kinase inhibitors.  Treatment Options  “The approval of Iclusig is important because it provides
a treatment option to patients with CML who are not responding
to other drugs, particularly those with the T315I mutation who
have had few therapeutic options” Richard Pazdur, director of
the Office of Hematology and Oncology Products in FDA’s Center
for Drug Evaluation and Research, said in the statement.  Tyrosine kinase inhibitors include  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY) ’s Sprycel and  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Tasigna.  In a clinical trial where all 449 patients with various
phases of the leukemias took Iclusig, 54 percent of all patients
and 70 percent of those with the T315I mutation responded to the
drug, the FDA said.  “While we are disappointed by the safety elements of the
label, we are not changing estimates,” Nadeau said. “While
understandable, we think today’s weakness is overdone and would
use it as a buying opportunity in Ariad.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  