-- Marks & Spencer Budget Pies Trounce Fortnum, Harrods
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-12-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/marks-spencer-budget-pies-trounce-fortnum-harrods-heston-s.html
Marks & Spencer’s inexpensive mince
pies triumphed in a blind tasting by chef Richard Corrigan, in
which Fortnum & Mason, Harrods and Heston Blumenthal flopped.  The winners were the cheapest at a special-offer price of
21 pence (34 cents) each.  Starbucks (SBUX)  (1.50 pounds) and the Co-op
(33 pence) were second. Among the losers were Duchy Originals,
created by Prince Charles and now a brand of Waitrose.  Corrigan tried 10 different varieties in the tasting at
Corrigan’s Mayfair, which was filmed by Bloomberg Television. I
told him the maker of each pie after he tasted it.  This was the sixth annual Bloomberg hunt for the finest.
The previous tasters were Heston Blumenthal (2007, 2008), Marcus Wareing (2009), Pierre Koffmann (2010) and Angela Hartnett
(2011). Harrods scored the top marks last year.  Co-Operative Truly Irresistible Luxury All Butter (2 pounds
for six): “It looks all right. Mince pies can be very dry, too
much ground almonds are put into them. But I like that. It has a
nice spice content. It could have a little more filling in it --
it looks a bit mean -- but it’s very tasty with a high-quality
filling. The pastry is crisp: buttery, floury, sugary. It’s
pretty good for a bought in mince pie. I’m going to mark it down
because it could be a bit more filled.” 6.5/10  Duchy All Butter (3.99 pounds for six): “This looks a
little bit mass-produced and it’s completely hollow in the
middle. Look at the mean amount of mince. There’s not enough
citrus in there, zest, and it needs a lot more spice. The pastry
just tastes quite processed and I always think about the right
amount of suet and things in the mince pie. No, it doesn’t do a
lot for me. (I tell him it’s Duchy.) Oh no: The Tower of  London 
awaits. It’s a pity. I really wonder who makes these recipes.”
4.5/10  Fortnum & Mason Traditional Petits Fours (8.95 pounds for
12): “The pastry is really badly rolled. It’s a lot of pastry
on that and a tiny amount of filling. It is quite crumbly, far
too sweet. There’s no spice. It’s also like having a little jam
tart. It’s not good. Who have I just crucified?” 3.5/10  Harrods Luxury (8.95 pounds for six): “Really well filled,
crisp pastry and it looks good as well. Really Christmassy. The
pastry is very soggy and it takes away from a very nice filling.
It’s a great pity. Because of the generosity of the filling, and
if you warmed it up, it could be a good 4. But I’m going to give
it..” 3.5/10  Heston From Waitrose Spiced Shortcrust (3.29 pounds for
four): “I wonder if this would be more like its medieval
counterpart. I’ve never seen one this dark. Great spice. I don’t
like the pastry. It’s overcooked for a start and it’s soggy, not
crisp. The spices are superb. It’s a great pity. I’m not going
to go too low. Heston, please forgive me.” 3.5/10       Marks & Spencer (MKS)  All-Butter (1.24 for six): “It’s really
Christmassy looking. Could be a little bit more filling but it’s
not bad. That warmed up is very good. I like it. Marks & Spencer
have a good food department. They do mass food well. Other food
companies could learn from them. They get the pastry good and
crisp and compare that with what we’ve just tasted. It’s great
value for money in these times.” 7/10  Sainsbury (SBRY)  Taste the Difference Brandy Rich (2.0 pounds for
six): “It’s very thick pastry. Very sweet initially, not enough
spice. It’s not Christmas. It’s a sweet fruit tart. It’s not
nice. It’s when the sugar coats your palate and numbs it at the
same time.” 3.5/10  Starbucks (1.50 pounds each): “This looks so good. It
looks home-made, it really does. It’s very generous, very deep.
I’m sure the price says a lot. A lot of pastry here -- nice
pastry. It’s very buttery, crumbly and delicious. It tastes
home-made. That’s mummy’s food. Marks & Spencer’s filling is
better but overall this is a better pie. But the pastry is so
thick.” 6.5/10  Tesco (TSCO)  Finest Deep-Filled with Courvoisier: (2.0 for six)
“This really looks nice. It looks home-made again. The filling
looks O.K., quite jammy. It’s a nice fruity filling. The spices
are not protruding at all. I don’t get the nutmeg and the mace.
But that served warm would be quite delicious and the spices
would protrude that little bit more.” 6/10  Waitrose All Butter (2.49 pounds for six): “The pastry
looks good, well buttery, well filled: Very generous. That’s
really good. It’s not all broken and over-worked with a jam-like
consistency. It’s just a pity there isn’t enough spice in it.
That’s my only issue.” 6/10  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,  Mark
Beech  on music and  Lewis Lapham  on history.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 