-- Marois Sees New Quebec Mining Royalty Regime After March
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-12-14T05:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/marois-sees-new-quebec-mining-royalty-regime-after-march.html
Quebec  Premier Pauline Marois said
her government will meet mining companies in the next three
months to gather input as it seeks to raise royalty taxes on
mining to help  Canada ’s most indebted province generate revenue.  “We will have a discussion probably in February or March”
with mining companies, Marois said yesterday in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. “We want to raise more
revenues from royalties, but we don’t want to kill the
industry.”  Marois led the Parti Quebecois to a win in the Sept. 4
election with a minority mandate after telling voters the
government would boost mining levies because the province
doesn’t earn enough from resource extraction. Finance Minister
Nicolas Marceau backtracked from the campaign pledge last month,
agreeing to “consult” with companies before changing the
system in his Nov. 20 budget.  “We will change the royalties policy,” Marois said.
“What is unacceptable is that we have nine mining companies out
of 20 that are not paying anything in royalties during the last
years,” she said, without naming the companies.  According to its election platform, the Parti Quebecois
planned a 5 percent minimal royalty on the gross value of all
mining output, in addition to a 30 percent tax on “super
profits” from the extraction of non-renewable resources -- a
royalty regime similar to that of  Australia .  Starting in 2015-16, Quebec plans to put all mining
royalties -- an estimated C$325 million a year ($330 million) --
toward reducing debt, which is the highest as a share of output
in Canada. Debt in the current fiscal year equals about 62
percent of Quebec’s gross domestic product, according to a
report released last month by Toronto-based credit-rating
company DBRS Ltd.  Plan Nord  Marois’s predecessor, Jean Charest, unveiled the so-called
Plan Nord in May 2011, promising C$80 billion of government and
company investments by 2036 to tap mining and energy resources
in an area twice the size of  France  and 10 times the size of New
York state.  Marois, who repeatedly criticized the Plan Nord during the
election campaign for failing to involve aboriginal populations,
yesterday pledged to continue to seek new mining investments.  “We are committed to the Plan Nord, but we will do the
thing differently,” she said. “We will respect the First
Nations, and we will protect the environment because it’s
important for us.”  Marois’ Parti Quebecois won 54 of 125 seats in the Quebec
legislature in the elections, meaning her government needs
support from opposition parties to pass laws.  Some miners have been scaling back investments in the
province.  Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. (CLF)   said  Nov. 19 it would
delay part of its Bloom Lake mine expansion, citing volatility
in iron ore prices and declining use of the mineral by North
American steelmakers.  Suspended Output  Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd. (AEM) , Canada’s fifth-largest gold
producer by sales, operates two  gold mines  in Quebec and
suspended output at a third, Goldex, last year because of ground
instability and flooding.  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  owns the Raglan nickel
mine in northern Quebec.  “From our perspective, we understand the government of
Quebec’s need to look at all areas where they can generate
additional revenues to manage their public policy programs,”
Dale Coffin, a spokesman for Agnico-Eagle, said yesterday in an
e-mailed message. “We certainly hope that the government also
takes the necessary time to consult with industry to fully
understand the impacts any new royalties would have.”  Marois said yesterday she understands the miners’ concern
and would wait until the consultations are complete before
committing to any specific increase. She also said her
government may introduce measures aimed at enticing companies to
conduct more resource processing in the province.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  New York  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  