-- Asian Dollar Bond Spreads to Widen in First Quarter: HSBC
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-12-14T06:19:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/asian-dollar-bond-spreads-to-widen-in-first-quarter-hsbc-says.html
Yield premiums on dollar-denominated
bonds in Asia may jump in the first three months of 2013 as
investors fret about the world economy, said HSBC Holdings Plc.
Weekly sales of the notes tumbled to a 10-week low.  “There will be a first-quarter Asian credit market
correction on concerns about global growth,” before central
bank stimulus spurs a recovery in the following three months,
said Hong Kong-based Dilip Shahani, head of global research for
the Asia-Pacific region at HSBC. An index of average spreads on
dollar bonds “should widen out to 300 basis points by the end
of the first quarter.”  The gauge was at  267.9 basis points  more than Treasuries on
Dec. 13, the HSBC data show. Economic growth in Group of 10
currency nations will slow to 1.2 percent in 2013 as spending
cuts spur a recession in  Europe , according to strategists
surveyed by Bloomberg. While dollar bond sales from Asia outside
of Japan dropped 64 percent this week to the least since the
five days ending Oct. 5, annual offerings are at a record $121.1
billion, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science & Technology Co., a Chinese
concrete and hoisting machinery maker, sold the only bond this
week. Zoomlion H.K. SPV Co., a unit of the company, sold $600
million of 10-year bonds at a spread of 456.2 basis points more
than Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares to the $1.65 billion raised last week by four
companies, the data show.  Total Returns  Investors will see a 0.3 percent total return from Asian
debt in the U.S. currency in the first quarter of 2013, before a
rally in the following three months drives gains to 5.8 percent
for the first half, Shahani said. He expects the index for
average dollar-bond spreads to narrow by 70 basis points to 230
by the end of the second quarter.  “Whilst the credit markets will be choppy, we would stay
invested based on the higher return by the end of the second
quarter,” he said. Investors in Asian dollar bonds lost 0.2
percent this month, paring returns this quarter to 1.4 percent,
the HSBC gauge shows.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  climbed one basis point to 111 as of
8:52 a.m. in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices
show. The benchmark is set for a drop of 2.8 this week,
according to RBS and CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Australia index advanced one basis point
to 124.5 basis points as of 12:02 p.m. in Sydney, according to
Westpac Banking Corp. The measure is on course to end the week
down 2.1 basis points for its fourth straight week of declines,
according to Westpac and data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index was little changed at 165.5
as of 9:52 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices show. The gauge
is on track to decline 5.5 this week, according to Citigroup and
CMA prices.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  