-- Most Asian Stocks Rise; Chinese Shares Surge on Economy
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-12-14T10:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/asian-stocks-snap-11-day-rally-amid-u-s-budget-deadlock.html
Most Asian  stocks  gained, with the
Shanghai Composite Index posting its biggest advance in three
years, as  China ’s manufacturing survey added to signs of
recovery in the world’s second-largest economy.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s No. 3 lender,
climbed 2.4 percent in Hong Kong.  Gome Electrical Appliances
Holding Ltd. (493)  jumped 7.2 percent after the Chinese retailer was
rated new buy at Citigroup Inc. Largan Precision Co., a supplier
of camera lenses to Apple Inc., sank 6.9 percent in Taipei on
speculation shipments will slow.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added less than 0.1 percent to
127.26 as of 7:05 p.m. Tokyo time, erasing losses of as much as
0.3 percent. If the gauge rises though today, it will complete
its longest streak of gains since January 2004. The measure
advanced 12 percent this year through yesterday amid signs the
world’s biggest economies are improving and optimism U.S.
lawmakers will agree on a budget deal to avert the so-called
fiscal cliff.  “Valuations don’t look particularly excessive to me,”
said Stephen Corry, a Hong Kong-based chief investment
strategist at LGT Group, a private banking and asset management
group that manages about $102 billion. “With the reacceleration
of the Chinese economy and a better cyclical outlook for the
first half of next year, people are more confident in the price-
earnings multiples that they’re paying.”  About seven shares rose for every six that fell on the  MSCI
Asia Pacific Index (MXAP) , which is poised to advance for a fourth
week, after central banks took steps to support economic growth.
Shares on the Asian benchmark index traded at 14.3 times
estimated earnings, compared with 13.7 times for the S&P 500
Index and 12.7 times for the Stoxx  Europe  600.  ‘Solid Footing’  China’s Shanghai Composite Index jumped 4.3 percent, the
most since October 2009. A report showed the nation’s
manufacturing may expand at a faster pace this month, suggesting
the factory recovery in the world’s second-biggest economy will
withstand a slowdown in exports.  The December preliminary reading was 50.9 for a purchasing
managers’ index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics. That compares with the 50.8 median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 12 economists and a final reading of
50.5 for November, the first time in 13 months it was above the
expansion-contraction dividing line of 50.  “The data show the economic recovery is on a solid
footing,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based fund manager at Dazhong
Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million.  Agricultural Bank of China advanced 2.4 percent to HK$3.80
in Hong Kong.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the nation’s
second-largest lender, added 0.8 percent to HK$6.28. Aluminum
Corp. of China Ltd., the country’s biggest supplier of the light
metal, jumped 4.3 percent to HK$3.61.  Gome Electrical climbed 7.2 percent to 89 Hong Kong cents
after Citigroup said the retailer’s online business may become
profitable in 2014 and that more affordable housing will boost
demand for appliances in China.  Japanese Elections  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index gained 0.7 percent, while South
Korea’s Kospi Index dropped 0.4 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex Index
fell 0.8 percent.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index was little
changed.  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average slipped 0.1 percent,
erasing gains of as much as 0.3 percent. Big Japanese
manufacturers became the most pessimistic since the aftermath of
the global recession as a diplomatic dispute with China and
Europe’s austerity measures hurt exports, according to the Bank
of Japan’s quarterly Tankan survey.  The Nikkei 225 advanced 2.2 percent this week, extending
gains for a fifth week, as the yen fell to the weakest level
since March amid bets that opposition leader Shinzo Abe will win
Japanese elections this weekend and push the central bank to
expand monetary easing.  Margin Trading  Exporters advanced as the weaker currency boost overseas
income at Japanese companies when repatriated. Sony Corp., the
maker of Bravia televisions and PlayStation game consoles,
gained 2.3 percent to 906 yen.  Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723) , the
chipmaker being bailed out by a government-backed fund and its
customers, rose 3.1 percent to 300 yen.  Sharp Corp. (6753) , the maker of Aquos televisions, jumped 7.6
percent to 269. Japan Securities Finance Co., which provides
loans for margin transactions, said it may set a limit for the
trades in the stock. Margin account holdings that profit when
the electronic maker’s shares fall jumped to 49.6 million shares
yesterday, the most since at least 1997, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent
today. The S&P 500 slid 0.6 percent yesterday, snapping a six-
day advance on the benchmark index, as a standoff in  federal
budget  negotiations overshadowed a decline in jobless claims and
a rebound in retail sales.  ‘Frank’ Meeting  President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker John Boehner met
for 50 minutes yesterday at the White House on the budget
stalemate. The White House and Boehner’s office released almost
identical statements saying the meeting was “frank” and that
“the lines of communication remain open.”  A budget agreement would help avert the fiscal cliff, which
would result in more than $600 billion in spending cuts and tax
increases scheduled to start taking effect next month.  SC Global Developments Ltd. (SCGD)  jumped 8.5 percent to S$1.975
in  Singapore  after Wheelock Properties Ltd., the second-biggest
shareholder of the property developer, bought 1.07 million SC
Global shares at S$1.81 each. The purchase price was above the
S$1.80 offer by chairman Simon Cheong, who wants to take the
company private.  Among stocks that dropped,  Largan Precision (3008)  declined 6.9
percent to NT$784 in Taipei, extending losses for a fourth day.
There’s speculation shipments have peaked in November and may
decline 30 percent in the first quarter due to weaker iPhone
orders, Mega Securities analyst Huang Chien-hao said by phone.  APN News & Media Ltd. (APN)  slumped 16 percent to 26.5 Australian
cents in Sydney after the newspaper publisher said second-half
revenue will decline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  