-- AstraZeneca Wins U.S. Ruling to Block Generic Crestor
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-12-14T21:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/astrazeneca-wins-u-s-ruling-to-block-generic-crestor.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , the U.K.’s second-
biggest drugmaker, won an appeals court ruling that will block
generic versions of its top-selling cholesterol medicine Crestor
in the U.S. until July 2016.  The patent on the main ingredient is valid and enforceable,
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in Washington
said in an  opinion  posted on its website today. The court
rejected challenges made by generic-drug makers including  Mylan
Inc. (MYL)  and  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)   The ruling ensures AstraZeneca won’t lose sales of a
product that brought in $2.3 billion in U.S. revenue in the
first nine months of the year. Total sales of Crestor, whose
chemical name is rosuvastatin, account for 22 percent of London-
based AstraZeneca’s revenue.  “AstraZeneca is pleased with the court’s decision to
uphold the validity of Crestor’s substance patent,”  Tony
Jewell , a company spokesman, said in an e-mail. “The decision
reaffirms the strength of the intellectual property protecting
Crestor.”  The generic-drug companies, except Apotex Inc., conceded
that they infringed the patent for the compound rosuvastatin and
focused their challenge on claims the patent covered an obvious
variation of earlier compounds.  They also claimed AstraZeneca and patent partner  Shionogi &
Co. (4507) , based in  Osaka ,  Japan , didn’t disclose important
information to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Failure to
report information that could bear on the originality of a
product could lead to a patent being thrown out.  Crestor Patents  The appeals court panel in a 2-1 decision upheld a lower
court ruling that rejected those arguments, and found that
Apotex’s copy would infringe the patent. The challengers also
included  Aurobindo Pharma Ltd. (ARBP) , Par Pharmaceutical Cos. and  Sun
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP)   The Federal Circuit in February upheld the dismissal of
Crestor suits over patents that expire in 2018 and 2021 that
cover the methods of using the active ingredient for certain
types of patients.  The generic-drug companies can ask the full court to
reconsider today’s decision, or appeal to the U.S. Supreme
Court.  AstraZeneca American depositary receipts, each representing
one ordinary share, closed unchanged at $47.46. The stock had
been down more than 1 percent before the ruling was issued.  The case is In Re Rosuvastatin Calcium Patent Litigation,
2010-1460, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington).  The lower court combined case is In re Rosuvastatin Calcium
Patent Litigation, 08-1949, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  To see the patent: RE37,314.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  