-- Auction-Rate Costing Local Taxpayers $9.6 Billion: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-12-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/auction-rate-costing-local-taxpayers-9-6-billion-muni-credit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  touted the
auction-rate securities that Reno,  Nevada , sold starting in 2005
as a tool to generate “considerable interest savings,”
according to an arbitration complaint the city filed last year.  Then, in 2008, during the global financial crisis, the
market blew up for Reno and hundreds of other issuers, including
 Detroit  and  California . The municipalities had sold about $200
billion of such debt, which matures in decades yet has yields
that reset monthly or weekly based on bids from investors. The
collapse cost issuers $9.6 billion, according to Saber Partners
LLC, an advisory firm in  New York .  Wall Street  dealers handling the auctions, wary of putting
their capital at risk, stopped bidding for bonds that investors
didn’t want, causing yields to soar. Reno learned how costly the
securities could be when  interest rates  more than tripled to 15
percent in the course of one week, according to the complaint.  “It’s absolutely incredible how much money has come out of
local governments because of this debacle,” said Peter Mougey,
an attorney for Reno. The soured deals contributed to fiscal
strains brought on by the 18-month recession that ended in 2009,
said Mougey, who’s based in  Pensacola ,  Florida .  Bank Tally  Banks that recommended auction-rates to issuers wound up
profiting at the expense of taxpayers stuck with the tab. Wall
Street firms reaped $6.5 billion of extra revenue from borrowers
from higher interest rates, remarketing and restructuring fees,
and payments to end derivatives tied to the deals, according to
a report prepared by Joseph Fichera, Saber’s chief executive
officer, for a course he taught at the Woodrow Wilson School of
Public & International Affairs at  Princeton University .  The remainder of the study’s cost estimate came from areas
such as additional interest paid to investors and other fees
related to restructuring.  The market freeze and spike in yield penalties came as
borrowers in the $3.7 trillion municipal market were facing the
worst drop in revenue in 50 years, according to an April 2009
report on state tax collections from the Nelson A.  Rockefeller
Institute  of Government in  Albany , New York.  Advice Questioned  “Municipalities were exploited by Wall Street dealers that
gave them bad financial advice,” said Marcus Stanley, policy
director of Americans for Financial Reform, a  Washington  group
that pushes for stronger bank regulation. “It seems to be very
common for state and local governments to get very bad terms
when dealing with Wall Street.”  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association,
which represents banks and dealers in securities markets,
declined to comment,  Andrew DeSouza , a spokesman in Washington,
said in an e-mail.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-
based Goldman Sachs, also declined to comment.  Banks weren’t required to bid in the auctions they handled.
When auctions fail, yields can be reset according to the terms
of the debt, sometimes at multiples of indexes such as the
London Interbank Offered Rate. That was what caused rates for
borrowers such as Reno, Nevada’s third-largest city, to spike.  Issuers had anticipated saving by obtaining short-term
interest rates for longer-maturity debt. They also chose the
securities to avoid paying for buyback agreements with banks,
which are required when issuing variable-rate debt.  System Failure  Yet that unraveled amid the financial crisis that took root
in 2007. Disruptions in auction-rates began the following year
as dealers facing pressure from losses on mortgage-backed
securities started to pull back from bidding on the debt.  The bonds that are part of Reno’s arbitration  complaint 
with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority show how
abruptly yields rose.  In more than 90 weekly auctions from May 2006 through Feb.
6, 2008, Reno’s yields averaged 3.6 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. On Feb. 13, the interest rate soared to 15
percent for a 34-year maturity.  Michele Anderson, a spokeswoman for Reno, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  As issuers bought back the securities or converted them to
variable-rate or regular long-term obligations, the market for
auction-rate debt has shrunk to $35.6 billion since 2008, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Settlement Sum  Dealers paid about $620 million in settlements with
regulators, most of which went to investors, according to the
report.  About $5 billion of the extra cost of the market’s demise
was related to ending swaps, according to Saber. Auction-rate
transactions often included interest-rate swap agreements, also
designed to cut costs, that went awry when yields defied
expectations and fell.  In June, the water utility of cash-strapped Detroit
borrowed $659.8 million to pay more than $300 million to banks,
including JPMorgan Chase & Co., to end  interest-rate swaps . The
utility has paid more than $500 million to unwind swaps tied to
auction-rate securities.  Anthony Neely, a spokesman for Detroit Mayor David Bing,
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  Auction-rates aren’t the only financial instrument to cost
municipalities. Localities are poised to lose about $6 billion
through Libor bid-rigging, according to an estimate from  Peter Shapiro , managing director of Swap Financial Group in South
Orange,  New Jersey .  Set Low  Banks that set Libor have been accused of manipulating the
market by setting rates too low. In June Barclays Plc, Britain’s
second-biggest lender by assets, paid a record 290 million pound
($467 million) fine for manipulating the rate.  Some interest-rate swap payments were tied to Libor, the
basis for $300 trillion of securities and loans worldwide.
Setting Libor too low raised what issuers paid to swap counter-
parties.  Fichera, in an interview, called the auction-rate freeze
“the first system-wide collapse of the credit crisis” in
securities markets. “The numbers speak for themselves.”  Louisiana , one of the poorest U.S. states, may have to pay
a $95 million penalty to unwind a swap as part of a plan to
refinance $294 million of auction-rate securities. The bond sale
for repairs of the Mercedes-Benz Superdome after  Hurricane
Katrina  came with extra costs of $42 million tied to the market
collapse, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Whit Kling, director of the state’s bond commission,
declined to comment.  More Cases  Next year, 15 cases Mougey filed for municipal borrowers
with Finra, which regulates securities dealers, will come to
final arbitration, said the lawyer, with Levin, Papantonio,
Thomas, Mitchell, Rafferty & Proctor P.A.  The cases allege that the banks handling the auctions knew
the market depended on their bids for unwanted securities, and
that the banks never disclosed that to issuers, he said.  In trading yesterday, municipal yields climbed as issuers
sold the most debt in six months.  Yields on benchmark munis due in 10 years rose 0.12
percentage point to 1.58 percent, the highest in about five
weeks, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  