-- Austria Spat With Bavaria Intensifies Over Hypo Billions
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-12-14T15:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/austria-spat-with-bavaria-intensifies-over-hypo-billions.html
Austria stepped up a legal battle
with Bavaria yesterday, demanding  Germany ’s richest state pay a
bigger share of losses at Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG,
a bank the two governments jointly rescued three years ago.  Hypo Alpe, owned by Austria since the bailout, won’t repay
loans from its former owner, Bavarian state lender  Bayerische
Landesbank , Chief Executive Officer Gottwald Kranebitter told
journalists in Vienna late yesterday. It will also wants back
loan payments it made previously, putting in doubt a total of 4
billion euros ($5.2 billion) in funding it got from BayernLB
ahead of the rescue, he said. BayernLB sued Hypo Alpe in Munich
and said it won’t refund its former subsidiary.  “We have to assume that most of the funding from BayernLB
was substituting equity, and that has legal consequences,”
Kranebitter said, citing an expert opinion Hypo Alpe
commissioned on the issue. “The law has a very practical
approach and that is to require the old owner makes a fair
contribution and carries a fair share of the risks in a
restructuring.”  Hypo Alpe, based in Klagenfurt,  Austria , and BayernLB are
among  Europe ’s most expensive bank failures, piling up as much
as 14 billion euros in bailout costs for taxpayers in Austria
and Bavaria. Executives and politicians behind the banks’
demise, now retired, dismissed or dead, left Hypo Alpe with
soured loans in the former Yugoslavia and BayernLB with
Icelandic debt and non-performing asset-backed bonds, on top of
the losses caused by its former Austrian asset.  Austrian Support  Hypo Alpe has 2.3 billion euros of BayernLB loans
outstanding, mostly maturing in 2013 and 2014, and paid back
another 2.3 billion euros since 2008, Kranebitter said. About 90
percent of the total is affected by the repayment freeze. The
bank won’t make an interest payment due this month, he said.  Austria, which supported Hypo Alpe’s decision in a
shareholder meeting today, may still sue BayernLB over the
rescue deal in which it bought Hypo Alpe for one euro in the
early hours of Dec. 14, 2009. BayernLB yesterday agreed to an
Austrian request to extend until the end of 2013 the three-year
statute of limitations to resolve legal conflicts.  BayernLB asked a Munich court to determine Hypo Alpe has to
honor its debts, it said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. It
won’t refund Hypo Alpe’s previous payments, CEO Gerd Haeusler
was quoted as saying by the Austrian Press Agency today.
BayernLB has lost a total of 3.7 billion euros with the Hypo
Alpe investment.  Call Loans  BayernLB said it may take further legal steps in the
matter. Bavarian Finance Minister Markus Soeder, after a hastily
arranged meeting in October with Maria Fekter, his counterpart
in Vienna, said BayernLB would call in the loans immediately
should Hypo Alpe halt payment.  Austrian taxpayers have so far subsidized Hypo Alpe with
1.76 billion euros in capital, including an additional 500
million-euro cash tranche approved yesterday. Public guarantees
to the tune of 16.7 billion euros, mostly given by its erstwhile
owner, the Austrian province of Carinthia, still loom. BayernLB,
meanwhile, has started to pay down the Bavarian state aid it
received. Haeusler said the repayment will go on as planned
despite Hypo Alpe’s repayment halt, APA said.  “The crisis was much deeper than thought at the time of
the emergency nationalization,” Kranebitter said about Hypo
Alpe. “It will cost more than what was originally known.”  Carinthia Fueled  Hypo Alpe expanded rapidly in the 2000s, when it was owned
by Carinthia, then led by the late populist politician Joerg Haider. It became one of the biggest banks in the former
 Yugoslavia , with assets almost quadrupling in the five years to
2008, fueled by wholesale funding guaranteed by Carinthia.  BayernLB bought its initial 50 percent stake in Hypo Alpe
for 1.63 billion euros in 2007 from Carinthia, insurer Grazer
Wechselseitige and a group of investors led by Tilo Berlin, Hypo
Alpe’s former chief executive officer.  Several courts in Germany and Austria are dealing with
cases related to the bank’s failure. BayernLB has sued one of
Hypo Alpe’s former owners, and accused its own former CEO Werner Schmidt and other executives of ignoring warnings about the
viability of the purchase. Former Hypo Alpe CEOs Wolfgang Kulterer and Berlin as well as other executives have been
charged by Austrian authorities. They all denied wrongdoing.  Joerg Haider  died in a 2008 car crash. Two of his allies
were convicted by a court in Klagenfurt this year of having
conspired with him to split kickbacks linked to the BayernLB
sale. An appeal is pending. The Carinthian parliament last night
dissolved itself and called snap elections in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  