-- Bank of Montreal Sells Its Biggest Structured Note This Year
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2012-12-14T20:19:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/bank-of-montreal-sells-its-biggest-structured-note-this-year.html
Bank of Montreal  sold $100 million
of notes tied to a basket of 11 stocks that analysts at  Raymond
James  Financial Inc. picked to excel next year, its largest
offering in the U.S. in 2012.  The one-year securities, issued Dec. 11, yield the gains of
the stocks or American depository shares chosen as “best
picks” for 2013 by the equity research team at Raymond James,
according to a  prospectus  filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Raymond James distributed the notes to its
network of more than 6,300 advisers for a 2.75 percent fee.  The companies that make up the basket include  Bed Bath &
Beyond Inc. (BBBY) ,  Jabil Circuit Inc. (JBL)  and  Tractor Supply Co. (TSCO)   During the last 10 years, the analysts’ selections have
averaged an 18.6 percent total return, which includes reinvested
dividends, according to the company’s  website . Last year, the
return was 8.2 percent, compared with 17.2 percent for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Shereen Sarthou, a spokeswoman for Raymond James, and
Martha McInnis, a spokeswoman for  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , didn’t
return calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  A year ago, the Toronto-based bank sold $165.3 million of
notes linked to Raymond James’ picks for 2012 in two offerings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  