-- Bankia Said to Plan Sale Process for Florida Unit in 2013
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-12-15T00:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/bankia-said-to-plan-sale-process-for-florida-unit-next-year.html
Bankia SA (BKIA) , the largest Spanish bank
due to receive a European bailout, plans to seek buyers for its
Florida unit early next year in a sale that may fetch at least
$500 million, said people with knowledge of the matter.  Bankia has been interviewing U.S. investment bankers
seeking to advise on the sale, said the people, who asked not to
be named because the matter is private. Bankia may solicit
interest from banks interested in expanding in Florida,
including BB&T Corp.,  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) ,
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , and  BankUnited Inc. (BKU) , one person said.  Bankia won approval from the European Union for a bailout
after asking in May for help from the government to clean up bad
loans. Selling  City National Bank of Florida  is part of the
restructuring plan approved by the EU. Miami-based City National
has 26 branches and more than $4.3 billion of assets.  A spokesman for Bankia, who asked not to be identified by
name in line with the Valencia, Spain-based bank’s policy,
declined to comment. Representatives for the four banks declined
to comment or didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Bankia said on Nov. 28 it would sell City National under a
restructuring plan that calls for the sale of nearly 50 billion
euros ($65 billion) in assets through 2015. Separately, City
National said that day that its parent had “a four-year window
to evaluate alternatives” for the company. Bankia predecessor
 Caja Madrid  bought 83 percent of City National in 2008 in a
transaction that valued the bank at $1.1 billion.  City National’s relatively low amount of problem loans and
its profitability may attract suitors, the people with knowledge
of the matter said. Its ratio of non-performing assets to total
assets was 0.95 percent in the third quarter and its return on
assets was 1.15 percent, according to Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. regulatory data.  Bankia is Spain’s fourth largest bank by assets. It said
last month it would cut 6,000 jobs as part of a restructuring
related to a planned 18 billion euro bailout.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Monks in  New York  at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 Jmccracken3@bloomberg.net . 