-- Bank of America Says MBIA Defaulted on Contested Securities
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-12-14T21:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/bank-of-america-says-mbia-has-defaulted-on-contested-securities.html
Bank of America Corp. claimed  MBIA
Inc. (MBI)  defaulted on one of its bonds and it sued the debt insurer,
saying it interfered with a tender offer for the securities as a
three-year dispute over toxic mortgages escalated.  Bank of America wants a court order that MBIA’s efforts to
change the terms of its debt to prevent a potential bankruptcy
are invalid, according to a complaint filed yesterday in  New
York  State Supreme Court in Westchester County.  “Rather than compete on a level playing field with Bank of
America, MBIA tortiously interfered with  Bank of America ’s
tender offer in an attempt to ensure the success of its own
consent solicitation,” the bank said.  In a failed attempt to block the changes to the debt terms,
the lender sought to persuade investors last month to sell it a
majority of MBIA’s $329 million of 5.7 percent bonds due in 2034
that were outstanding at the time. Instead, MBIA said Nov. 26
that it repurchased $170 million of the securities, leaving just
$159 million in investors’ hands, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Bank of America said in a statement yesterday that it
had acquired $136 million of the notes.  Shares Drop  MBIA sought consent from its bondholders to alter terms of
the securities to protect itself from the threat of a regulatory
seizure of MBIA Insurance Corp., its unit that insured real
estate-related debt that soured during the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression. After Bank of America bid to
buy the December 2034 bonds, potentially providing holders with
a better deal than the $10 per $1,000 of face value solicitation
fee from MBIA, the insurer purchased about 52 percent of the
debt in order to ensure it had sufficient support.  Shares of MBIA dropped 6.7 percent to $7.95 today after
surging 4.7 percent yesterday.  The bank is objecting to MBIA’s buying back notes at or
above par from a select group of holders after discouraging
bondholders in a Nov. 20 statement from accepting Bank of
America’s tender offer at face value, according to the
complaint.  Bank of America also asserts the consent solicitation is
invalid because the bond indenture dictates that if MBIA
beneficially owns any portion of the notes, they don’t count as
outstanding for purposes of changing the terms.  ‘Any Cost’  “MBIA’s consent solicitation sought to force through
amendments to its indentures at any cost to clear the way for it
to push MBIA Insurance into rehabilitation or liquidation,”
Bank of America said in the complaint. “In the process, MBIA
disenfranchised holders of its 5.7 percent notes, depriving them
of millions of dollars while coercively buying the votes of a
select group of holders.”  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America, declined
to comment on the lawsuit.  Kevin Brown , a spokesman for Armonk,
New York-based MBIA, said the lender’s default notice is
meritless.  The bank is suing to overturn a 2009 reorganization that
split MBIA’s municipal bond insurance business National Public
Finance Guarantee Corp. from its structured-finance unit.  MBIA is separately suing Bank of America, seeking to force
it to buy back faulty loans in insured mortgage-backed
securities, and it claims the bank is delaying that case to
starve the insurer of cash.  Swaps Rise  “BofA’s failed attempt to interfere with MBIA’s consent
solicitation and today’s letter are nothing more than a
transparent attempt to gain leverage to force” MBIA’s insurance
unit “to accept a discounted settlement of the over $4.5
billion that BofA” owes it “for fraudulent and misrepresented
mortgage loans,” Brown said in an e-mailed reply to a request
for comment.  “Like its purported notice of default, Bank of America’s
latest lawsuit is meritless and we will respond to both
accordingly,” he said.  The cost credit traders demand upfront to protect against a
default by the insurance unit climbed 7.4 percentage points to
44.1 percentage points yesterday from Nov. 1, according to
prices from data provider CMA. Credit-default swaps on the
parent have increased 1.2 percentage points to 18 percent in
that period, CMA prices show. CMA is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The case is  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  v. MBIA Inc., 70444-2012,
New York State Supreme Court (Westchester County).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  