-- Barclays Says Market-Gaming Case Based on ‘Irrational Theory’
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-12-14T23:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/barclays-says-market-gaming-case-based-on-irrational-theory-.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  and four of its former
traders denied gaming electricity markets in the Western U.S.
and vowed to fight more than $470 million in penalties proposed
by the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission .  In a filing with the FERC today, lawyers for the London-
based bank said the allegations are “based on an economically
irrational theory” and said they would challenge the agency’s
investigation in federal court.  “The commission should terminate this proceeding without
any further action,” Barclays said in its 40-page filing. If
the FERC pursues the case, it “will be unable to prove the
alleged violations” in court, it said.  The FERC on Oct. 31 proposed record penalties against
Barclays, as well as $18 million in penalties on four of its
former traders, for allegedly gaming energy markets in the West
from late 2006 to 2008. The bank’s challenge to to the probe may
prove to be a test of the commission’s enforcement powers, which
Congress enhanced in 2005 to prevent the type of market
manipulation that triggered blackouts in  California  earlier in
the decade.  Within the last two years, the agency has made public 13
probes of alleged violations, including investigations of
trading units at Barclays,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)   FERC Chairman Jon Wellinghoff has said the agency, which
has about 200 employees devoted to policing the markets, is in
“full enforcement mode.”  Barclays didn’t have the intent or the ability to
manipulate energy markets and its trading was legitimate,
lawyers for the bank said in today’s filing.  The five-member commission should reject its enforcement
staff’s recommendations, “decline to assess any penalties, and
terminate this matter without any further proceedings,”  Mark
Lane , a Barclays spokesman, said in an e-mail. “If the FERC
proceeds, we intend to vigorously defend this matter in federal
court.”  Mary O’Driscoll, a FERC spokeswoman, did not respond
immediately to e-mail and telephone requests for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  