-- Basel III’s January Deadline Comes Too Soon for Most Nations
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-12-14T18:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/basel-iii-s-january-deadline-comes-too-soon-for-most-nations.html
More than half the nations that drew
up a global accord to toughen bank capital rules will miss next
month’s deadline to start implementing the measures, global
regulators said.  Only 11 out of 27 member countries have completed the
necessary rulemaking to meet the deadline, the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision said after a two-day meeting in the Swiss
city. The laggards include the U.S. and the European Union,
which has 9 member states in the Basel group. The committee
didn’t announce a deal on a draft liquidity rule for banks that
was also on the agenda of the talks.  Implementation of the accord, which more than triples the
amount of core capital lenders must hold compared with previous
international standards, “is an absolutely critical step
towards strengthening the resilience of the global banking
system,”  Stefan Ingves , the Basel group’s chairman, said in a
statement today.  The EU and the U.S. have said that they will miss the
deadline, amid calls from some officials for the so-called Basel
III rules to be scrapped in favor of a simplified form of bank
regulation. The 2013 start date is supposed to be the start of a
phase-in process for Basel III that runs until 2019.  The European Union plans a Jan. 1, 2014 deadline for
legally implementing the measures, on concerns that national
parliaments must be given enough time to adopt the overhaul,
Othmar Karas, the lead EU legislator working on the standards,
said this week. The bloc is targeting a political deal on the
rules on Dec. 18.  U.S. regulators said in November that they wouldn’t be
ready for Jan. 1, 2013 as they wanted to take more time to
consider responses from banks.  Agreed Timetable  “By the end of 2013, almost all Basel Committee
jurisdictions will be implementing Basel III in accordance with
the agreed timetable,” Ingves said.  The 11 countries that will meet the 2013 deadline include
 Canada ,  China ,  Mexico  and Switzerland, the Basel group said.  “Even though there are delays in implementing the
regulations, national supervisors are ensuring that
internationally active banks are, where necessary, making steady
progress in strengthening their capital base in accordance with
the Basel III framework,” Ingves said.  Nations that are late in writing the measures into their
national rulebooks should do so as soon as possible, and then
fall back in line with the original timetable for phasing them
in, he said.  Liquidity Ratio  The group this year carried out so-called peer reviews of
the EU and U.S. that found flaws in their draft rulemaking to
apply Basel III. The group will next year complete assessments
of other countries with globally systemic banks, the group said.  The Basel group at its meeting discussed possible revisions
to a planned liquidity rule that would force banks to hold
enough easy-to-sell assets to survive a 30-day credit squeeze.  The so-called liquidity coverage ratio has been criticized
by some central banks and regulators, including European Central
Bank President Mario Draghi, as a threat to interbank lending
and economic recovery.  Regulatory and central bank chiefs have called on the
committee to review the measure and draft proposals by the end
of 2012, so that they can be signed off by them when the Basel
group’s governing board meets in January.  The Basel committee brings together banking regulators from
nations including the U.S.,  Japan , U.K.,  Germany , and China to
coordinate their rulemaking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  