-- Best Shows of 2012 Include ‘Salesman,’ ‘Sorry’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-12-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/best-shows-of-2012-include-salesman-sorry-review.html
Commanding new voices and rising
young actors competed with revivals for attention in 2012. These
were the best of them, on and off Broadway.  1: Mike Nichols’s wrenching revival of Arthur Miller’s
“Death of a Salesman,” starring Philip Seymour Hoffman as the
hard to love but impossible to ignore Willy Loman, towered over
the season.  2. Director Pam MacKinnon’s revelatory staging of Edward Albee’s “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?” restored our faith
in the entertainment value of marriage as warfare, 1960s-style.
It’s still running, and you must see it.  3. At  Lincoln Center Theater ’s intimate new Claire Tow
Theater, Ayad Akhtar’s “Disgraced” continues to scorch
audiences with its unflinching look at marriage vows versus
tribal loyalties. As a Pakistan-born mergers and acquisitions
lawyer who’s not entirely assimilated, “The Daily Show’s”
Aasif Mandvi leads a pitch-perfect ensemble through this timely
collision course.  4. Richard Nelson’s “Sorry,” set during the early morning
hours of Election Day, 2012, opened at the  Public Theater  on the
evening of that very date. This latest installment (the third of
four) about the Apple family was performed with exquisite
Chekhovian truthfulness.  Art House  5. Also at the Public, a new musical, “February House,”
looked at a Brooklyn brownstone whose motley tenants briefly
included W.H. Auden, Benjamin Britten, Carson McCullers, Peter
Pears and Gypsy Rose Lee. The glittering songs by Gabriel Kahane
ranged from torchy ballads to music hall ditties, all put across
by a vivacious cast. Buy the brilliant cast recording.  6. Set in Costa Rica, Greg Pierce’s “Slowgirl” at the
Claire Tow provided the latest showcase for actress Sarah
Steele, playing a teenage girl seeking solace at her uncle’s
jungle hideaway after a tragedy at home. Watch for that name;
you’ll be seeing it a lot.  7. Two disparate stagings of my favorite Chekhov play were
among the season highlights. The Lincoln Center Festival
presented “Uncle Vanya,” starring an icily brilliant Cate Blanchett. Downtown,  Soho Rep ’s “Vanya” was the more intimate
event, placing us right in the faces of the players in Chekhov’s
probing comedy and offering another memorable performance by
Michael Shannon as the besotted doctor Astrov.  8. Frank Gehry’s inviting three-theater complex for the
invaluable  Signature Theatre Company  is a major addition to the
city’s cultural life. Deeply affecting productions of three
plays by the incomparable Athol Fugard -- “Blood Knot,” “My
Children! My Africa!” and “The Train Driver” proved that low
prices and powerful stories fill houses.  Albee, Durang  9. Recalling James Corden’s nonstop clowning in “One Man,
Two Guv’nors” still cracks me up. I described him as a pudgy
beignet of an actor. You could eat him up in Richard Bean’s
hilarious update of Carlo Goldoni’s “The Servant of Two
Masters.”  10: Another important young voice was heard at  Playwrights
Horizons  in Lisa D’Amour’s powerful “ Detroit ,” about two
couples living at the edge of oblivion in that economy-torn
city. David Schwimmer, proving there’s life after “Friends,”
led the fine quartet of actors.  Honorable Mention: Signature’s “The Lady From Dubuque”
showed that Albee’s once-dismissed play is a keeper. James Lapine’s Broadway revival of “Annie” is hugely entertaining.
Christopher Durang’s comedy “Vanya & Sonia & Masha & Spike” is
still the funniest show in town.  Blair Underwood and Nicole Ari Parker squared off in a
charged, under-appreciated revival of “A Streetcar Named
Desire.” Disney’s “Newsies,” given the once-over by Harvey
Fierstein, has some of the most infectiously kinetic dancing in
the city. Jake Gyllenhaal electrifies “If There Is I Haven’t
Found It Yet” as the garrulous uncle of a morose teenage girl
with self-esteem issues.  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and  Lewis Lapham  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 