-- Best Buy Falls After Extending Schulze’s Offer Deadline
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-12-14T21:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/best-buy-falls-after-extending-schulze-s-offer-deadline.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY) , the world’s largest
consumer-electronics retailer, fell the most in a year after
giving founder Richard Schulze more time to study the company
and arrange financing for an offer to take it private.  Best Buy agreed that it was in the best interest of
shareholders to let Schulze and his partners include results
from the holiday season in their due diligence review, the
company said today in a statement. Schulze can now make a
proposal to buy the company in February.  Schulze, 71, has been working with three private-equity
firms, including Cerberus Capital Management LP, on a takeover
of the electronics chain he founded more than four decades ago,
people familiar with the matter have told Bloomberg News. The
former chairman proposed offering $24 to $26 a share for Best
Buy in August and later that month reached an agreement that let
him conduct due diligence and present a fully financed offer
within 60 days.  “This extension indicates Schulze has been unable to line
up the necessary equity and debt to finance a transaction,”
 Anthony Chukumba , an analyst at BB&T Capital Markets in New
York, said today in a note. “There is simply no other reason he
would need over five months to perform due diligence.”  The shares dropped 15 percent to $12.05 at the close in New
York for the biggest decline since Dec. 13, 2011. Richfield,
Minnesota-based Best Buy has fallen 48 percent this year.  Company Review  Best Buy said today it will review and take a position on
Schulze’s potential offer within 30 days. Matt Furman, a
spokesman for Best Buy, declined to comment on the bid extension
beyond the statement. CNBC reported today’s extension earlier.  The company’s share decline today follows a 16 percent
increase yesterday, which was the largest gain in almost four
years, after the Minneapolis Star-Tribune reported Schulze would
submit an offer to the board before the Dec. 16 deadline. The
bid would be about $5 billion to $6 billion, the newspaper
reported, citing a person it didn’t name.  Today’s extension indicates the board “actually has
interest in potentially selling the company” and is “willing
to entertain a bid,”  Colin McGranahan , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York, said in an interview.  Schulze resigned as chairman in June after an investigation
found he failed to tell the board’s audit committee about
allegations former Chief Executive Officer Brian Dunn was having
an inappropriate relationship with an employee.  Best Buy last month posted a $10 million loss for its
fiscal third quarter, which ended Nov. 3, as sales at
established stores fell. Chief Executive Officer Hubert Joly is
working to improve customer service as customers defect to
Amazon.com Inc. and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  