-- Biggest China Deal Sours as Cnooc Ratings Hit 3-Year Low
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o ,   B e n j a m i n   H a a s   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-12-14T08:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/biggest-china-deal-sours-as-cnooc-ratings-hit-3-year-low.html
China’s biggest foreign acquisition
is underwhelming  Wall Street .  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s analyst ratings have sunk to their lowest
level in three years just as the Chinese state-controlled oil
explorer prepares to buy  Canada ’s  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  for $15.1 billion
in a deal that escalates production expenses.  China’s lowest-cost producer will take over a Western
company that pumps about 200,000 barrels a day at a cost of
$20.84-a-barrel of oil equivalent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s more than twice Beijing-based Cnooc’s average
cost last year of $9.01 to turn out 950,000 barrels daily.  The deal underscores China’s unprecedented urge to buy  oil
deposits  even at above-average costs to feed an economy the U.S.
National Intelligence Council this week forecast will surpass
the U.S. before 2030. China, the world’s biggest energy-
consuming nation, is leading a surge in Asian oil and gas
acquisitions that has surpassed $100 billion this year.  “Cnooc is adding assets at a very high cost, which means
shareholders won’t see reasonable returns in the next year or
two,” said Shi Yan, an energy analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. in
Shanghai who cut her buy rating to hold on Dec. 10, two days
after Canada approved the deal. “Unless you are the Chinese
government, I don’t see why investors should be excited about
the deal.”  The  shares  will return 1.2 percent over the next year,
compared with 2.5 percent for domestic competitor  PetroChina Co. (857) 
and 6.8 percent for  Exxon Mobil  Corp., according to data from
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Consensus Dip  Two days after Canada approved the Nexen deal on Dec. 7,
the recommendation consensus for Cnooc of 34 analysts dipped to
3.38, the lowest since July 2009. Buy ratings get five points,
holds three and sells one. Nine of 21 buy ratings were lost
since the deal was announced on July 23.  Nexen, a Calgary-based oil-sands and offshore explorer,
ranks near the bottom of the world’s biggest oil companies in
earnings performance. Its adjusted earnings per share in U.S.
dollars will drop 35 percent to $1.50 in 2012, compared with a
38 percent average increase for the 67 members of the  Bloomberg
World Oil & Gas Index (BWOILP) , estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Lower Dividend  Reduced profitability would weigh on free  cash flow , which
is estimated to decline 31.9 billion  yuan  ($6.3 billion) this
year from 64.3 billion yuan last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Cnooc is predicted to cut its full-year
dividend to 35  Hong Kong  cents in March from 53 cents a year
earlier, according to Bloomberg forecasts.  A Beijing-based Cnooc spokeswoman declined to comment on
the Nexen deal. Patti Lewis, a spokeswoman for Nexen in Calgary,
didn’t return a voicemail and e-mail seeking comment on the
ratings cuts and takeover agreement.  “I don’t want to take anything away from Cnooc, but this
deal doesn’t improve Cnooc’s earnings very much,” said Simon Powell, head of Asian oil and gas research at CLSA Ltd. in Hong
Kong. “While Cnooc will add some production and reserves, it
has to pay high operation costs and financing charges.”  Cnooc  shares  rose 0.5 percent to HK$16.88 in Hong Kong. The
stock has gained 9.3 percent since the Nexen deal was announced,
trailing the 19 percent increase in the benchmark  Hang Seng (HSI) 
Index. Domestic competitor PetroChina has risen 14 percent in
that period. Nexen surged 57 percent in New York since the last
day of trading before the announcement.  Premium Offer  The $27.50 a share offer for Nexen was at a 61 percent
premium to the Calgary-based company’s July 20 closing price.
The U.S. government has yet to approve the deal.  PetroChina’s production cost was $11.54 last year, while
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  spent $15.43. The figure was
$9.44 for Exxon Mobil, the world’s biggest energy company by
market value, and $10.78 for  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s
largest, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Cnooc is organizing a $6 billion, 12-month bridge loan to
fund the takeover, according to people familiar with the matter.
The borrowing may be refinanced by selling bonds, said Owen Gallimore, a Singapore-based credit trading desk analyst at
 Australia  & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  Every three of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg rate
Cnooc shares hold or sell, while a similar number recommend
buying bigger rival  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) ’s stock.
Cnooc, China’s biggest offshore energy explorer, won approval
from Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government last
week to buy Nexen and gain access to the world’s third-biggest
oil reserves in Canada.  Growing Appetite  The appetite for oil and gas assets among Asia-Pacific
companies is growing after energy demand in the region rose at
more than double the world average of 2.5 percent last year.  Beijing-based Petrochina agreed to pay Canada’s Encana Corp.
$1.2 billion for a 49.9 percent stake in its Alberta shale
formation, Encana said in a statement yesterday. The deal was
announced on the heels of another deal this week, in which
PetroChina agreed to pay $1.63 billion for a stake in the Browse
liquefied natural gas venture in Australia.  China’s energy use is projected to rise 16 percent to 124.2
quadrillion British thermal units by 2015 from 2011 levels,
according to U.S. Energy Information Administration  data .  Buying Nexen will give Cnooc oil and gas assets in Canada,
the U.K. and the U.S. Last year, 29 percent of Nexen’s daily oil
and gas production of 207,000 barrels of oil equivalent came
from Canada, according to the company’s  annual report . The U.K.
accounted for 43 percent of output.  Nexen reported C$697 million  net income  in the year ended
Dec. 31, 2011, 38 percent lower than the previous year. Profit
is estimated to fall 21 percent this year to C$549.4 million,
according to the average estimate of five analysts  surveyed  by
Bloomberg. Cnooc’s 2012 profit will drop to 65.4 billion yuan
from 70.3 billion yuan from a year ago, according to the average
estimate of 20 analysts.  Shale Surge  Asian companies are seeking assets in  North America  after
the continent last year reported the world’s biggest increase in
oil and gas production after the Middle East. A surge in gas
produced by cracking open shale rocks in the U.S. made it the
world’s biggest producer of the fuel in 2009.  Cnooc paid a high premium price for Nexen assets, which
would probably further shrink Cnooc’s overall profit margin in
the next couple of years, Shi said. Cnooc’s net income margin
shrank to 29.16 percent in 2011, the lowest since 2003,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Nexen purchase may help profit growth should Cnooc
effectively develop Nexen’s oil reserves in North America, the
North Sea and in West Africa, said  Neil Beveridge , senior
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in Hong Kong. Running some
of Nexen’s fields would give Cnooc experience in offshore
operations, helping it develop other offshore fields in China,
said Beveridge, who has an “outperform” recommendation on the
shares.  “Cnooc needs to now demonstrate to the market that they
can add value to Nexen and justify the premium paid,” Beveridge
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in Hong Kong at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  