-- Boehner Tax Stance Shows Reluctance to Give In Too Soon
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-12-14T16:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/boehner-tax-stance-shows-reluctance-to-give-in-too-soon.html
House Speaker  John Boehner  has drawn
a rhetorical line against higher tax rates for top earners, even
as he negotiates with President  Barack Obama , because he can’t
be seen as conceding too much too soon.  A slow-walk approach to averting more than $600 billion in
tax increases and spending cuts set for January is crucial for
Boehner whether the talks succeed, according to Republicans in
Congress. If they don’t reach agreement, Boehner will have
gathered a coalition of lawmakers he’ll need for a more limited
deal. If he succeeds, he’ll have convinced anti-tax Republicans
that he fought to extract spending cuts.  Obama and Boehner met at the White House for almost an hour
yesterday in their third face-to-face session to discuss
averting the so-called fiscal cliff, with no indication the two
have narrowed their differences.  Boehner is returning to his home state of  Ohio  for the
weekend and the House isn’t in session today. Both the speaker’s
office and the White House say “the lines of communication”
between the two leaders remain open. Some Republicans are
discussing a smaller deal that would extend tax cuts for middle-
income taxpayers and push work on a broader agreement into the
New Year.  As the Dec. 31 expiration of Bush-era tax cuts nears,
Boehner is maintaining a tough posture, saying the president
“isn’t serious” about spending cuts, without ruling out a deal
on taxes to shield his party from criticism. Almost half of
Republicans now say Obama has an election mandate to raise rates
on the rich, according to a Bloomberg National Poll.  ‘A Religion’  “The idea of not raising taxes has become sort of a
religion for a lot of members of the  Republican Party ,” Obama
said in an interview yesterday with television station WCCO in
 Minneapolis . “Speaker Boehner has a contentious caucus, as his
caucus is tough on him sometimes so he doesn’t want to look like
he’s giving in to me somehow because that might hurt him in his
own caucus.”  The president’s reluctance to concede on cuts to
entitlement programs, such as  Social Security  and Medicare, is
hurting Boehner’s ability to present his conference with a
compromise that can muster enough votes to pass, according to
Republicans.  “The speaker’s out there at great disadvantage,” said
Trent Franks, an  Arizona  Republican who described himself as one
of the “most conservative” House members.  “I need to make sure he has every possible leverage and
option and strategic option that he can make,” he said. “So I
won’t speak to what I will or won’t vote for.”  ‘Kabuki Dance’  Republican Representative Brian Bilbray of  California , who
didn’t win re-election in November, said it was Obama who turned
the talks into a “kabuki dance” because of his unwillingness
to outline entitlement benefit cuts.  Boehner, after earlier expressing openness to a deal with
Obama, has taken a harder public line in recent days,
emphasizing “serious differences” that exist between the two
sides. He also has refused to budge on the White House’s demand
that Congress surrender its authority over the government’s
 borrowing  limit as part of any deal.  “Congress will never give up our ability to control the
purse,” he said yesterday. “The fact is that the debt limit
ought to be used to bring fiscal sanity to  Washington .”  At a minimum, the White House wants a multi-year extension
of the debt limit to prevent another standoff early in 2013 and
risk a government default.  2011 Negotiations  In mid-2011 amid budget talks with Obama that failed,
Boehner faced a rebellion from members of the anti-tax Tea Party
wing of the party who warned that they wouldn’t vote for a tax
increase as part of a deal to raise the debt ceiling.  This time, weeks from the January start of tax increases
and spending cuts that the  Congressional Budget Office  says
could lead to a recession in the first half of 2013, fewer  House
Republicans  are trying to influence Boehner’s hand in
negotiations.  “The conference is largely calm,” said Representative
 Patrick McHenry , a North Carolina Republican. “Based on looking
around the room and seeing how people are acting, we have one
guy negotiating for us.”  Representative Wally Herger, a California Republican,
echoed that, adding “it’s much more serious now.”  “You can only have one voice out there speaking for you,”
he said.  Even with Republicans appearing to be unified in backing
Boehner, Democrats are hinting that the Jan. 3 speakership
election could be influencing his negotiating stance with Obama.  Stronger Position  A deal that includes tax rates “could create more churning
in his caucus and mean he doesn’t get the votes necessary” to
renew his speakership in January, said Maryland Representative
 Chris Van Hollen , the top Democrat on the House Budget
Committee.  Boehner’s removal earlier this month of three Tea Party-
backed Republicans from their committee posts is also creating
tensions. On Dec. 3, FreedomWorks, a group that supports Tea
Party candidates, issued a statement calling the move a
“remarkably hostile act” and asking members to call Boehner’s
office to “stop the fiscal conservative purge.”  By all accounts, Boehner appears to be in a stronger
position with his rank-and-file than he was 2011 during the
debt-ceiling debate, when it was uncertain whether House
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia  would back the speaker
in a deal that included new revenue.  Cantor has endorsed Boehner’s plan to raise $800 billion in
revenue by curbing tax breaks. He is joined by Representative
 Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , the party’s 2012 vice presidential
nominee and chairman of the House Budget Committee.  Deadline Negotiations  “I’m not concerned about my job as speaker,” Boehner said
at a news conference yesterday. “What I’m concerned about is
doing the right thing for our kids and our grandkids. And if we
don’t fix this spending problem, their future is going to be
rather bleak.”  The up-to-the-deadline negotiations are also part of the
culture on  Capitol Hill . Last year, Congress reached an
agreement to extend the  payroll tax  cut days before it was set
to expire. In 2009, Senate Democrats passed Obama’s health-care
legislation on Christmas Eve.  “Ninety percent of lawsuits are settled on the courthouse
steps the day of the trial,” said Representative Lynn Westmoreland, a Georgia Republican. “What you are going to look
at is a settlement coming around December the 29th.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  