-- Bovespa Extends Weekly Jump as Commodities Boost Vale
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-12-14T20:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/bovespa-poised-for-weekly-jump-as-commodities-boost-vale.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index rose for a second
weekly rally as higher commodity prices supported by  China ’s
manufacturing growth lifted producers and  Brazil ’s economy
expanded at a faster pace in October than forecast.  Iron-ore producer Vale SA, whose top export market is
China, surged to a five-month high and contributed the most to
the index’s advance. Braskem SA,  Latin America ’s largest
petrochemicals producer, rebounded from a three-week low.
Materials and energy stocks were among the best performers among
10  industry groups  tracked by MSCI Inc.  The Bovespa index, the benchmark for Brazilian stocks, rose
0.5 percent to 59,604.92 at close in Sao Paulo, extending this
week’s advance to 1.9 percent. The real was little changed at
2.0852 per  U.S. dollar . Brazil’s economic activity rebounded in
October, and a report in China signaled manufacturing is
expanding at a faster pace this month.  “Things in China seem to be improving, which is good for
companies such as Vale and other commodities producers,”  Pedro Galdi , the chief strategist at Sao Paulo-based brokerage SLW
Corretora, said by phone. “The economy is still poised for much
faster growth next year when compared to 2012.”  Brazil’s seasonally adjusted economic activity index, a
proxy for gross domestic product, rose 0.36 percent in October
after declining 0.52 percent in the prior month, the central
bank said today in a report posted on its website. Analysts
expected a 0.30 percent increase, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The gauge rose
4.96 percent from a year earlier.  Stimulus Measures  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has expanded
stimulus measures for companies and consumers to jump-start
Brazil’s $2.5 trillion economy, which grew at half the pace of
analysts’ forecasts in the third quarter. Last week government
officials cut taxes for the  construction industry  and announced
plans to attract billions of reais in port investments.  “Growth will accelerate significantly next year as the
government has introduced powerful fiscal and monetary stimuli
and still has leeway to step up its efforts to boost growth,”
Jose Carlos de Faria, a Deutsche Bank AG economist, said in a
research note e-mailed to clients.  Homebuilder Gafisa SA rose 0.6 percent to 4.72 reais,
leading gains by stocks linked to domestic demand.  Braskem Advance  Braskem added 0.7 percent to 13.09. Vale rose 3.2 percent
to 39.75 reais. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw
materials advanced 0.9 percent.  Fibria Celulose SA, the world’s largest pulp producer,
tumbled 0.4 percent to 22.09 reais after saying Brazil’s tax
authority ordered it to pay 556 million reais in taxes and 1.1
billion reais in fines.  Eletropaulo Metropolitana SA, the Brazilian unit of AES
Corp., slumped 5.5 percent to 13.23 reais after saying in a
regulatory filing it was ordered by a court to pay 1.3 billion
reais to Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA for an unpaid loan
arranged in 1986, when the company was still controlled by the
state of  Sao Paulo . Eletropaulo said it will appeal.  Eletrobras, as Centrais Eletricas is known, gained 1.5
percent to 9.74 reais.  Bovespa Valuation  The Bovespa index has climbed 14 percent from this year’s
low in June as stimulus from central banks around the world
eased concerns about an economic slowdown. The index  trades  at
11 times analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four
quarters, in line with the ratio for MSCI’s measure of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 7.68 billion reais in stocks in Sao
Paulo today. That compares with a daily average of 7.26 billion
reais this year through Dec. 12, according to data compiled by
the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  