-- Brazil Inflation Will Continue to Slow in 2013, Barbosa Says
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-12-14T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/brazil-inflation-will-continue-to-slow-in-2013-barbosa-says.html
     Dec. 14 (Bloomberg)-- Brazilian inflation will continue to
slow to the central bank’s target next year, Deputy Finance
Minister Nelson Barbosa said yesterday.  Consumer price increases will slow even as service
inflation remains above the average, Barbosa said at an event in
Porto de Galinhas, in  Brazil ’s Pernambuco state.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has revamped
efforts to spur the economy while keeping a lid on inflation in
the world’s second-largest emerging market. Brazil’s gross
domestic product will grow 1.03 percent this year, the lowest
among major  emerging markets , according to a Brazilian central
bank survey. Annual inflation has remained above the central
bank’s 4.5 percent target for over two years and  accelerated  in
November to 5.53 percent, even as economic growth flagged.  “There is no inflation risk,” Barbosa said. “Brazil has
its economy in order, and its inflation under control.”  Still, analysts forecast inflation will reach 5.4 percent
next year, according to the latest central bank survey of about
100 economists.  Swap rates on contracts due January 2014 fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.06 percent. The real
depreciated 0.6 percent to 2.0856 per dollar.  Tax Cuts  Since August 2011, authorities have cut taxes for both
companies and consumers, reduced benchmark  interest rates  to
record lows and announced plans to lure billions of reais in
infrastructure investments to spur Brazil’s economy, which  grew 
0.6 percent in the third quarter, half the pace forecast by
economists. Last week, authorities said they would extend
payroll tax reductions to the construction sector.  Government officials are considering cutting taxes on
venture capital funds, as well as payroll tax cuts in additional
industries such as the service sector, Barbosa said.  Even as authorities plan those reductions, Brazil will have
a larger primary surplus in 2013 compared to this year, Barbosa
said, adding that the surplus will be close to 3.1 percent of
GDP.  Brazil will work to fulfill promises of reducing energy
costs by 20 percent next year. “Electricity is as important as
interest rates and exchange rates,” Barbosa said.  Rousseff said in  France  this week that she would maintain
the current course of economic policy, adding that the
government will work to boost manufacturing and increase
competitiveness.  Brazil’s government is maintaining forecasts of at least 4
percent GDP growth next year, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
said last week. The world’s sixth-largest economy expanded 2.7
percent last year, down from 7.5 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  