-- Brazil Economy Rebounds More Than Expected in October
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-12-14T11:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/brazil-economy-rebounds-more-than-expected-in-october.html
     Dec. 14 (Bloomberg) --Brazil’s economic activity rebounded
more than analysts expected in October, as government stimulus
measures fueled demand in the world’s second-biggest emerging
market.  The seasonally adjusted  economic activity index , a proxy
for gross domestic product, rose 0.36 percent in October after
declining 0.52 percent in September, the central bank said today
in a report posted on its website. Analysts expected a 0.30
percent increase, according to the median estimate from 23
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The non-seasonally adjusted
index rose 4.96 percent from a year ago.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has expanded
stimulus measures for companies and consumers to jump-start
Brazil’s $2.5 trillion economy, which grew at half the pace of
analysts’ forecasts in the third quarter. Last week government
officials cut taxes for the  construction industry  and announced
plans to attract billions of reais in port investments. Since
August 2011, authorities have also increased public spending,
reduced taxes on  consumer goods  and cut benchmark interest rates
to record lows.  “The October number reflects more favorable broad retail
sales and industrial production in the period,”  Banco Bradesco
SA (BBDC4)  said in an e-mailed statement signed by chief economist
Octavio de Barros. “This reinforces signs of acceleration in
economic activity at the start of the fourth quarter.”  Slower Pace  Brazil ’s gross domestic product  grew  0.6 percent in the
third quarter, according to the national statistics agency, as
investment fell for the fifth straight period. The economic
activity index showed expansion of 1.14 percent in the quarter,
fueling expectations that the economy was growing faster than it
did.  Government measures have been slow to gain traction in some
areas of the economy. Sales of vehicles in November fell 8.7
percent from October. Consumer default rates in October remained
at the highest level since November 2009, even as bank loan
rates stood at record lows.  Still, manufacturing may be accelerating, as industrial
production in October grew at an annual basis for the first time
since August 2011. Retail sales in October rose at the fastest
pace in three months on higher sales of computers, furniture and
appliances.  Consumer confidence  reached its highest level in
November since December 2010.  Price increases have gained speed even as economic growth
has remained sluggish.  Annual inflation  through November
accelerated to 5.53 percent from 5.45 percent a month earlier on
higher service costs. Central bank President Alexandre Tombini
reiterated on Dec. 11 that inflation will converge to the bank’s
4.5 percent target next year.  Brazil’s economy expanded 2.7 percent last year, down from
7.5 percent in 2010. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said last
week the government is maintaining its forecast for growth of at
least 4 percent next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  