-- Brazil Swap Rates Extend Weekly Increase on Tombini
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-12-14T20:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/brazil-swap-rates-extend-weekly-increase-on-tombini.html
Brazil ’s swap rates extended their
first five-day increase in a month as central bank President
Alexandre Tombini reiterated this week plans to hold off on
further cuts in borrowing costs.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 rose seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 7.63 percent at the
close in Sao Paulo, extending the weekly advance to 11 basis
points, the first since the period ended Nov. 16. The real
depreciated less than 0.1 percent to 2.0860 per dollar today and
weakened 0.5 percent this week. The central bank plans to sell
as much as $1.5 billion in two credit-line auctions on Dec. 17
to promote year-end liquidity.  Stability in monetary conditions is the best way to assure
that inflation slows to the central bank’s target, Tombini said
at a Senate hearing this week. Swap rates got a boost today as a
report showed economic activity rebounded in October.  “The market is believing in the scenario put forth by the
central bank, that it will keep rates stable next year,” Jorge Dib, a portfolio manager at Grau Gestao de Ativos in  Sao Paulo ,
said in a phone interview. “Tombini himself discarded the idea
of lower rates.”  The seasonally adjusted economic activity index, a proxy
for gross domestic product, rose 0.36 percent in October after
dropping 0.52 percent in the prior month, the central bank
reported today. The median forecast of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a 0.30 percent increase.  Quicker Inflation  Brazil’s annual rate of consumer price increases as
measured by the IPCA gauge has exceeded the 4.5 percent midpoint
of the central bank’s target range for 27 consecutive months.
Yearly inflation unexpectedly accelerated to 5.53 percent in
November from 5.45 percent in the prior month, the statistics
agency said Dec. 7.  Swap rates plunged last week as Itau Unibanco Holding SA
forecast the central bank will resume cutting borrowing costs
next year after a report showed gross domestic product expanded
in the third quarter at half the pace forecast.  The real has been supported by government signals that it
doesn’t want the currency to depreciate further out of concern
that inflation may quicken, Dib said.  A weaker currency won’t help boost competitiveness unless
it is accompanied by inflation controls, Tombini said at this
week’s Senate hearing.  Policy makers have swung in 2012 between selling currency
swaps aimed at preventing the real from depreciating too quickly
and offering reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by
keeping the real weaker than 2 per dollar.  The bank will conduct foreign-exchange credit-line auctions
Dec. 17 to boost liquidity as end-of-year company remittances
squeeze the supply of dollars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  