-- Bucher Calls for Swiss to Work 45-Hour Weeks or Risk Losing Jobs
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-12-14T08:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/bucher-calls-for-swiss-to-work-45-hour-weeks-or-risk-losing-jobs.html
Swiss employers should be able to
dictate 45-hour weeks for workers when needed and cut back on
hours during slacker times, according to Philip Mosimann, chief
executive of the world’s largest maker of wine presses.  France ’s week of “35 hours is ridiculous,”  Bucher
Industries AG (BUCN) ’s Mosimann said in an interview. “We compete
against Indian, Chinese and Turkish companies. They don’t have
this central European socialistic view. We have become too
satisfied with luxury and comfort.”  The Swiss -- who work several hours a week more than
Germans or English and are the best paid in  Europe  -- need to
embrace a far more flexible schedule to keep factories
competitive, Mosimann said. The nation’s robust economy relative
to the wider European woes will continue to lure investors into
the franc, he said, strengthening the currency and increasing
the cost of Swiss goods at the same time.  Machinery makers such as  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  to  OC Oerlikon AG (OERL)  are in
the midst of negotiating a new labor contract with unions to be
firmed up next year.  Bucher is among Swiss machinery makers laboring under the
cost of paying employees in francs as the currency’s gain lures
customers to cheaper neighbors including Germany. Mosimann has
in the past threatened to close Swiss factories if the franc
reached parity with the euro.  Tweaking Hours   “If we are not competitive, we will lose jobs in
Switzerland,” Mosimann said, saying that Swiss manufacturers
need to be more radical than their European neighbors.  The franc’s creeping gain over 30 years has made Swiss
companies leaner. Since joining Bucher as CEO 11 years ago,
Mosimann has moved the head office to a spartan gray office
block near Zurich airport. Corporate limousines and luxury
office chairs are no more.  “I sit in the same chair as a trainee,” Mosimann said.  In 2004, 200 of Bucher’s Swiss jobs were moved to  Latvia .
Less than 10 percent of its workforce remains at home, compared
to 25 percent a decade ago. If the central bank maintains its
1.20-franc ceiling against the euro, no further transfer of jobs
will be needed, he said.  Employers like Bucher or  Rieter Holding AG (RIEN)  can cut as many
as 100 working hours a year to account for slow periods. Workers
compensate with longer stints at work when orders pick up. Pay
remains the same throughout. Mosimann would like to extend this
arrangement to 200 hours.  “45 hours a week is an important limit, workers cannot
work
more than this. After this point there are issues like family
problems, burn-out and other health issues,” Christian Gusset,
an official at Swiss trade union Unia said in a telephone
interview.  The Swiss work a 40-hour week, compared to  35.6  hours in
France and 37.5 hours in the U.K.. In a referendum earlier this
year, the Swiss populace voted against a proposal to increase
the minimum yearly vacation to six weeks from four.  Mosimann said his employees’ pay will increase by 0.5
percent to 1 percent this year, compared with 2 percent to 3
percent in  Germany . His own salary has been frozen for four
years and will remain frozen until retirement, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  