-- California Carbon Rises to Eight-Week High After Quebec Votes
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-12-14T04:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/california-carbon-rises-to-eight-week-high-after-quebec-votes.html
California carbon futures rose to
the highest price in almost two months after  Quebec  approved
changes to allow links between their cap-and-trade systems.  Carbon markets in Quebec and California will be connected
next spring, and their governments will hold the first joint
auction of carbon allowances in August, Yves-François Blanchet,
Quebec’s minister of sustainable development, environment,
wildlife and parks, said in a statement on his agency’s website.  “Quebec’s action sets the stage to link our two emissions-
trading programs to provide a model that other states and
provinces can join,”  Mary Nichols , chairman of the  California
Air Resources Board , said in a statement on her agency’s website.  The board voted in June to delay a decision on aligning
with Quebec’s carbon system after a bill was signed into law
requiring approval from the governor. The agency will now
request the governor’s review, Nichols said today. Should the
programs come together, companies could use carbon permits
issued as part of Quebec’s cap-and-trade program to comply with
emission limits in California, which will start the world’s
second-largest carbon market on Jan. 1.  Futures based on California carbon allowances for 2013
advanced 30 cents to $13.75 a metric ton, the highest since Oct.
19, according to data compiled by  CME Group Inc. (CME) ’s Green
Exchange.  Under California’s program, the state will cap carbon
emissions from power generators, oil refineries and other
industrial plants and cut that limit gradually to reduce
emissions to 1990 levels by 2020. Companies bound by the cap can
sell allowances to other emitters and investors. The state plans
eventually to regulate 85 percent of the  greenhouse gases 
released in California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  