-- McAlpine Sues U.K. Speaker’s Wife Bercow Over Twitter Post
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-12-14T09:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/mcalpine-sues-u-k-speaker-s-wife-bercow-over-twitter-posting.html
Alastair McAlpine, the former U.K.
politician wrongly identified as a pedophile after a false
report by the British Broadcasting Corp., sued a lawmaker’s wife
over her post about him on Twitter Inc.’s social-media service.  The libel lawsuit against Sally Bercow, the spouse of House
of Commons Speaker John Bercow, was filed Dec. 7 in  London ,
court records released yesterday show. McAlpine, 70, had
threatened legal action against the as many as 10,000 people who
posted or re-posted about him after the  BBC  implied last month
he sexually abused a boy in the 1970s.  “I am still hopeful that we will be able to reach a
sensible agreement to settle this matter” without “the need to
proceed to a trial,” McAlpine’s lawyer Andrew Reid said in an
e-mailed statement.  The BBC, the world’s biggest broadcaster, agreed to pay
McAlpine 185,000 pounds ($298,000) after the Nov. 2 error on its
“Newsnight” report, which gave hints about the ex-politician’s
identity without naming him. Before the mistake was uncovered,
Twitter postings accusing McAlpine were already spreading,
setting the stage for the biggest libel case of its kind in
Britain, media lawyers including Ruth Collard of Carter-Ruck in
London have said.  The speaker’s office declined to comment on the court
filing.  McAlpine, who was deputy chairman of the U.K. Conservative
Party under  Margaret Thatcher , wants Twitter users with fewer
than 500 followers to apologize and donate to the BBC Children
in Need charity, he said last month. Bercow and other Twitter
users who have more followers were threatened with tougher legal
action.  The BBC error that triggered the dispute has added to
criticism against the broadcaster after it failed to air an
investigative report about one of its former television stars,
Jimmy Savile, who died last year and is now suspected of
widespread sex abuse involving children as early as 1959.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  