-- Cameron Says European Integration Helps U.K.’s Demands
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-12-14T13:39:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/cameron-says-european-integration-helps-u-k-s-demands.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
the European Union’s drive for closer political and economic
cooperation represents an opportunity for Britain as it seeks to
recast its relationship with the bloc.  His 20 hours spent at a summit in Brussels yesterday and
today showed Britain can seize the opportunity to renegotiate
its position, Cameron said. He also played down achievements of
recent days, including an agreement on euro-area banking union,
saying the challenges ahead remain very difficult because they
deal with issues of sovereignty for all 27 members of the union.  “The euro-zone members are making changes that they need,
and we should be able to argue that we should make changes that
we need,” Cameron told reporters after the summit. “We say you
can go ahead with your banking union, but in return for that we
need proper safeguards for countries that stay outside the
single currency and the banking union.”  Under pressure from his party, Cameron has signaled he’d be
prepared to offer a referendum on a renegotiated relationship
with the EU after the next election due in 2015. The premier
said Dec. 10 he’ll set out his plans soon to renegotiate
membership and will be arguing for Britain to stay in the EU.  Cameron said that the U.K. is making gains in reshaping the
EU, citing as an example a commitment from the European
Commission, its executive branch, to “scrapping some of its
regulations,” which he said hold back businesses. It is “the
first time” the Commission has adopted such a stance, he said.  ‘Flexibility’ Needed  “There has to be the flexibility in  Europe  to respect the
fact that there are countries that aren’t part of the euro and
never will be,” the prime minister said.  What the outcome of a referendum would be is unclear. As in
1975, when Britons voted against leaving the European Economic
Community, those arguing for staying in would include the
leaders of all three main parties. Against them would be many
Conservative lawmakers and the anti-EU U.K. Independence Party,
which recently scored its best-ever results in special elections
to fill House of Commons vacancies, finishing second in two held
on Nov. 29.  Conservative opponents of EU membership argue that
Cameron’s refusal to call a plebiscite before 2015 harms their
electoral prospects. One, Michael Fabricant, argued last month
for an electoral pact with UKIP, arguing that promising a
referendum would stop the Conservatives losing support to the
party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Brussels at  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  