-- Canadian Stocks Rise as China, U.S. Data Offset Factory Sales
-- B y   E r i c   L a m   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-12-14T21:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/canadian-stocks-rise-as-china-u-s-data-offset-factory-sales.html
Canadian  stocks  climbed, extending
their gain for the week, as optimism about the global economy
fueled by American and Chinese manufacturing reports offset a
slump in factory sales and concern about U.S. budget talks.  Dundee Corp. (DC/A)  surged 14 percent after the company said it
will give shareholders a 50 percent stake in Dundee Real Estate
Investment Trust, its 70 percent-owned real-estate unit. China
Gold International Resources Corp. declined 5.8 percent as the
precious metal dropped for a third straight week.  Encana Corp. (ECA) 
slipped 4.3 percent a day after PetroChina Co. agreed to pay
C$1.18 billion ($1.2 billion) for a 49.9 percent stake in an
Alberta shale formation.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  rose 7.55 points,
or 0.1 percent, to 12,296.72. The equity gauge gained 1.1
percent for the week and is up 2.9 percent this year.  “You’ve got some positive impulses and some negative
impulses, so we’re stabilizing and we’ll see more stabilization
later,” Robert “Hap” Sneddon, president of Castlemoore Inc.
in Oakville, Ontario, said in a phone interview. “We had a
little bit of a positive with Harper allowing two sovereign
deals to go through in the oils.”  Industrial production in the U.S. rose in November by the
most in two years. In  China , the December preliminary reading
was 50.9 for a purchasing managers’ index released by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics, beating estimates.  Canadian factory sales fell faster than economists forecast
in October on declines in aircraft and automobiles, while
inventories reached the highest in almost four years.  Budget Talks  President  Barack Obama  and Republican House Speaker  John
Boehner  remained deadlocked yesterday during their third White
House meeting on next year’s budget. Canadian Finance Minister
 Jim Flaherty  said today that  Canada  would enter a recession if
U.S. policy makers are unable to reach an agreement to avoid
fiscal tightening scheduled for January.  “There is good reason for concern in the next quarter or
so if that issue is not resolved satisfactorily,” Flaherty told
reporters today in Ottawa.  Encana fell 4.3 percent to $19.96, after jumping 2 percent
yesterday. PetroChina’s deal marks the first between Canada and
a state-owned company since Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  unveiled new foreign investment rules on Dec. 7.  ‘Exceptional Circumstances’  The rules, announced after the approval of Cnooc Ltd.’s
purchase of Nexen Inc., prohibit state-owned enterprises from
taking control of Canadian oil-sands businesses unless there are
“exceptional circumstances.” Joint ventures and minority stake
acquisitions aren’t barred under the rules.  China Gold fell 5.8 percent to C$3.41. Gold futures for
February delivery rose 20 cents to settle at $1,697 an ounce in
New York. The metal was down 0.5 percent this week.  Dundee rallied 14 percent to C$30.47 after its board
approved a tax-efficient plan to give shareholders a 50 percent
stake in Dundee Realty Corp.  Inmet Mining Corp., the target of a proposed takeover offer
from First Quantum Minerals Ltd., climbed 4.7 percent to C$69.83
after the miner boosted the copper resource estimate at its
Cobre Panama project by 27 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  