-- Canadian Dollar Gains Versus Majors on China Factories
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-12-14T17:51:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/canadian-dollar-gains-versus-majors-on-china-factories.html
The Canadian Dollar weakened against
the majority of its 16 most-traded peers after factory sales
fell more than economists forecast and industrial production in
the U.S. rose by the most in two years.  The currency fell against its U.S. peer after  Statistics
Canada  said factory manufacturing sales declined 1.4 percent to
C$40.8 billion ($49.6 billion) in October, the biggest decline
since January. The Canadian dollar remains higher for a second
consecutive week.  “The numbers this morning out of Canada certainly haven’t
helped the loonie bulls,” said  Dean Popplewell , head analyst at
the online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp., by phone from
Toronto. “To a certain extent, the loonie was overvalued
somewhat this week on the back of M&A activity.”  The Canadian dollar, called the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, declined 0.09 percent to 98.58
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 12:48 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian
dollar buys $1.0144. The currency has gained 0.3 percent this
week.  Canada’s government bonds were little changed, with yields
on the benchmark 10-year security steady at 1.79 percent. The
2.75 percent security due in June 2022 was rose 5 cents to
C$108.31.  Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, rose 1 percent to
$86.72 a barrel in New York, and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
of stocks dropped 0.18 percent.  Manufacturing Output  Economists forecast a 0.1 percent decrease in Canadian
factory sales, according to the median of a Bloomberg survey.  The dollar reached an seven-week high versus its U.S.
counterpart on Dec. 10 after the Canadian government approved
China-backed  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion acquisition of  Nexen
Inc. (NXY)   Output at U.S. factories, mines and utilities increased 1.1
percent last month after a revised 0.7 percent drop in October,
the  Federal Reserve  reported. Economists forecast a 0.3 percent
advance, according to the Bloomberg survey median. The U.S. is
Canada’s biggest trading partner.  “What’s driving the CAD/USD is more likely greater
confidence in U.S. activity versus any sort of concern with
Canada,” David Doyle, a strategist at Macquarie Capital
Markets, said by phone from Toronto.  Further gains in U.S. manufacturing, which has stumbled in
the second half of the year, would help the expansion build on
the recent pickup in housing and sustained  consumer spending . At
the same time, the industry faces the hurdles of slower global
economies and a lack of clarity on the U.S. budget that has
prompted companies to hold back on investment.  “The U.S. fiscal cliff is a bit of an overhang on why
Canada is going to have a hard time going much stronger until
that’s resolved,”  Shane Enright ,  executive director  at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World Market’s unit, said by
phone from Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  