-- Caregivers Bloodied Patients as Complaints Drew Laughter
-- B y   D a v i d   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-12-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/caregivers-bloodied-patients-as-complaints-drew-laughter.html
Caregivers at a Florida center for
the brain-injured beat patients, goaded them to fight each other
and fondle female employees and in one instance laughed at
complaints of mistreatment, according to investigative reports
released under a court order to Bloomberg News.  The center, the  Florida Institute for Neurologic
Rehabilitation , is fighting a state directive that it move about
50 patients to other facilities. That order followed a Bloomberg
story revealing a history of violence at the center southeast of
Tampa. At least five patients have died from alleged abuse or
neglect there since 1998, two in the last two years.  The newly released records summarize 15 probes conducted by
the Florida Department of Children and Families since 2008,
including 12 that have never been disclosed before. Leon County
Circuit Court Judge Kevin J. Carroll ordered the state to
provide the reports, with the names of victims blacked out,
after Bloomberg petitioned the court, arguing there was a
compelling public interest.  The Wauchula-based facility, known as FINR, draws patients
from across the U.S. and abroad and is said by competitors to be
the largest such rehabilitation center in the country. It often
finds customers among the relatively few brain injured with
legal settlements or insurance payments that enable them to pay
premium prices. FINR charges some of them $300,000 a year.  In all of the 15 cases summarized in the reports --
involving 17 patients and 20 staff members -- the allegations
were classified by investigators as verified, meaning they were
supported by a “preponderance of credible evidence.”  ‘Difficult Population’  Until now, the state had released only a summary of
complaints, indicating there have been 526 allegations of abuse
and neglect since 2005. Of those, 37 were deemed verified.
Another 117 fell into a category defined by state regulations as
when “there is credible evidence that does not meet the
standard of preponderance.” The rest are still being
investigated or involved cases where the agency discovered no
evidence of abuse.  Joe Brennick, FINR’s owner and chief executive officer,
declined to comment on individual cases. In an e-mailed
statement, Brennick said the center “has consistently acted in
the best interest of its patients, and has one of the toughest
self-reporting policies in place for a facility of its kind.”  “It is important to understand that FINR serves one of the
most difficult populations of patients in the country,” he
said, “and that these patients often act out aggressively and
are extremely difficult to manage. This is not to absolve
wrongdoing by staff members, but is a fact that is often
overlooked in media reports.”  ‘Aggressive Behavior’  NeuroRestorative, a company that operates facilities in
 Florida  under the same type of license as FINR, didn’t have a
single verified abuse complaint during the same time period as
the 526 were lodged against FINR. NeuroRestorative has about
half the number of beds as FINR, which has 196.  Among the cases in the recently released records is one
from August 2008, when an investigator verified 10 instances of
abuse against three autistic patients by three FINR employees.
In one incident, as two staffers watched and did nothing, a
third named Tilmon Strickland allegedly punched an autistic
patient in the face, drawing blood, according to the report.  Staff members attempted to cover up the incident by writing
an internal report that blamed the patient’s injuries on a peer,
according to an allegation in the state report.  Strickland and another employee, Troy Gordon, had “a
history of trying to get residents to fight one another” and
would “agitate” them and “instigate aggressive behavior,”
according to a summary of allegations against them.  ‘Take Down’  The two staff members encouraged a patient to hit other
residents, the report stated. In addition, Strickland and Gordon
repeatedly told a patient to inappropriately touch and kiss a
female employee, according to the report. The victims were
described in the report as “easy targets.”  The investigator wrote that “the staff at this facility
has been investigated several times for injury and inadequate
supervision of the residents.” While the workers in this case
were fired, according to the report, “the facility has other
staff who may exhibit similar behavior with residents.”  Stickland, Gordon and the other now-former FINR employees
mentioned in the reports couldn’t be reached for comment.  In June 2010, a patient who banged his head into a wall
after becoming upset was restrained with a technique called
BARR, for Brief Assisted Required Relaxation. Several patients
told Bloomberg they were beaten during this procedure, which is
referred to by residents as a “take down.”  No Contest  Done properly, patients hurting themselves or others are
supposed to be gently lowered onto a blue mat and restrained for
a short period of time until they’re calm.  In this case, FINR employee Taiwan Blandin allegedly
attacked the patient, Demarcus Denton, “for no reason” during
a BARR restraint. Blandin stood over Denton and punched him in
the head 10 times before dropping his knee on him several times,
according to a police report filed after officers interviewed
staff members who said they witnessed the incident. Denton, who
suffered a brain injury as a child, was taken to the hospital
with a cut to his ear and abrasions on his face.  Blandin was arrested and pleaded no contest to a battery
charge, receiving a sentence of a year of probation, according
to the state attorney’s office.  In a September 2009 case, FINR employee Thelinor Jena
allegedly punched a patient who had scratched him earlier in the
day during a BARR procedure, according to the records. Jena
pleaded no contest to battery and was placed on probation for a
year and ordered to attend an anger management class, according
to the state attorney’s office.  Police Report  Another of the investigative reports alleged that in April
2010, employee Kristopher Rossman was recorded on a surveillance
camera “taking down” a patient “for nothing.” Rossman
allegedly moved the patient off-camera, to his bedroom, where
the patient emerged with bruises, according to the report.  A patient was quoted in a police report as saying he heard
sounds of a beating in the bedroom, including “yelling and
screaming and banging around.” Police said the 40-year-old
brain-injured man had a large bruise on his back with the shape
of a handprint in the middle of it. After the incident, Rossman
allegedly told another employee, “this is how we do it in this
cabin,” according to the police report.  A video camera caught Rossman and another employee
“laughing with each other directly after the incident,”
according to the police report.  Battery Charge  Rossman was charged with abuse of a disabled person. The
charge was later dropped by the state attorney’s office after it
determined the allegation couldn’t be proven beyond a reasonable
doubt, a spokesman for the office said.  The July 24 Bloomberg story reported on the cases of three
other staffers who were arrested, including LaKevin Johnson and
Landrey Johnson, charged in September 2011 with abusing Danny
Silva, an autistic patient. Video of the incident shows the two
men sitting on either side of the smaller victim on a sofa as
they punch, elbow and slap him at least 30 times.  “It appeared they were hitting him for the simple reason
that they could,” a state investigator concluded.  They were each sentenced to a year of probation last month
on a charge of battery, according to the state attorney’s
office. The lawyer for the two men, Karen Meeks, didn’t respond
to telephone calls.  Praising FINR  Silva’s father praised FINR in a letter, posted on a
company website, that said the center had taken “every possible
step for corrective action” and that his son was receiving
“the proper care he deserves.”  In the other case, employee McKinley Scott was videotaped
in December 2011 pulling an autistic patient from his seat and
throwing him to the ground. Scott was charged with abusing the
patient. A  Hardee County  jury found him not guilty in October.
Scott couldn’t be reached for comment.  The newly released investigative files include cases where
employees were faulted for failing to properly watch patients,
allowing some to hurt themselves.  In October 2008, a woman with a history of swallowing
objects was able to consume a pen when the staff person assigned
to watch her fell asleep during her shift, according to the
files. In December 2010, another patient with a similar history
swallowed a piece of a CD, a report said.  Two employees were assigned to watch that patient and stay
within a certain distance at all times to prevent her from
ingesting foreign objects; instead, one worker was around the
corner talking on the telephone and the other was in the hallway
texting, according to the report.  Black Eye  In that case, the patient alleged she was routinely beaten
by staff. While the investigator was unable to verify that, the
report noted the patient had a black eye, a mark on her chin,
bruises on her knee and a brush burn on her buttocks.  The investigator speculated the injuries could have been
the result of staff efforts to restrain the woman, who has
behavioral issues. Still, the investigator wrote she had
“concerns due to the nature of and amount of injuries; some of
the explanations do not seem plausible.”  The investigator also said she witnessed two staffers laugh
at the alleged victim in the presence of a company official
“who said nothing/did nothing to stop the staff members.”  In a June 2012 case, a patient alleged a staff member
grabbed him by the genitals and squeezed hard. While the
investigator was unable to substantiate the complaint of
physical abuse, the FINR employee did admit to charging the
patient $5 every time he wanted to take a smoking break,
according to the investigative report.  Facebook Page  FINR has rarely been punished by regulators in Florida,
where there has been confusion among agencies regarding which
has oversight. It’s been fined once since 2005, paying a penalty
of $4,218.75 for failure to file a timely renewal application.
State officials have said they’re working more closely together.
Three state agencies staged an unannounced inspection in August.  The center responded to heightened regulatory scrutiny by
hiring 10 lobbyists. The company has created a Web site, Twitter
feed and Facebook page, all under the heading Support FINR, and
produced video testimonials from satisfied patients.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
David Armstrong in Boston at 
 darmstrong16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  