-- Chavez Allies Rush to Venezuelan Summit Amid Cancer Vigil
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-12-14T23:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/chavez-allies-rush-to-venezuela-summit-as-cancer-vigil-continues.html
Bolivian President  Evo Morales  and
heads of state from other countries allied with  Venezuela ’s Hugo
Chavez are heading to Caracas for an emergency summit called
after the socialist leader flew to Cuba for a fourth cancer-
related operation.  Morales will travel to Havana tonight, accompanied by
Foreign Minister David Choquehuanca, to see Chavez before going
on to Caracas for the summit,  Bolivia ’s state-run news agency
ABI reported, citing Communications Minister Amanda Davila.  Caribbean leaders as well as members of the Bolivarian
Alliance political and trade bloc, which also includes Ecuador
and Nicaragua, will meet in the Venezuelan capital tomorrow.  Chavez has tapped the world’s largest oil reserves to
provide about $7 billion annually in subsidized crude to allies
including Cuba, more than three times what the U.S. spends in
aid in the Western Hemisphere. In Nicaragua, Venezuela’s oil and
aid program totaled $609 million last year, or almost 10 percent
of gross domestic product, according to the Central American
country’s central bank.  The summit will be held at the Plaza Bolivar in downtown
Caracas, Agencia Venezolana de Noticias reported. The date
coincides with the date of Chavez’s first meeting with former
Cuban leader  Fidel Castro  18 years ago and the 14th anniversary
of Venezuela’s current constitution, the state news agency said.  Mosque Prayers  Venezuelan Vice President  Nicolas Maduro , speaking
yesterday on state television, said Chavez’s condition had
improved to “favorable” from “stable” after he suffered
complications due to bleeding during a six-hour operation. He
said the president will require a “delicate and prolonged
process of post-operation recovery.”  “We ask that his favorable advances continue,” Maduro
said today after praying for Chavez’s health at the Islamic
Center of Caracas, where he said all the world’s mosques were
praying for the leader. “We will come out victorious in this
battle for the health and life of the president.”  Petroleos de Venezuela SA, the state oil company, sends
almost 100,000 barrels of oil a day to Cuba in return for
services including medical doctors and sports trainers,
according to the company’s 2011 financial report.  Nicaragua  paid for its 16,600 barrels a day of crude oil in
2011 with shipments of cooking oil, sugar, coffee, beans, meat,
milk, and 20,000 pairs of pants, according to PDVSA, as the
Caracas-based company is known.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  