-- Chavez Foes Test Strength in Regional Vote as Succession Looms
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-12-14T04:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/chavez-foes-test-strength-in-regional-vote-as-succession-looms.html
Venezuelans head to the polls in
regional elections this weekend that will gauge the opposition’s
chances of gaining power as President  Hugo Chavez ’s frail health
increases the likelihood of a new national vote early next year.  Voters on Dec. 16 will choose governors in 23 states in
 South America ’s largest oil producer, two months after Chavez
was re-elected for a third six-year term over Miranda state
Governor Henrique Capriles Radonski.  Before flying last week to Cuba to undergo a fourth cancer-
related surgery, Chavez urged Venezuelans to elect his Vice
President, Nicolas Maduro, in the event he steps down and forces
new elections. While polls show the opposition struggling to
hold onto the eight states it currently controls, a victory for
Capriles in Miranda state is crucial for maintaining opposition
unity behind a single leader capable of defeating Chavez’s
chosen successor.  “If Capriles doesn’t win by a convincing margin in Miranda
he’s going to be in trouble against Chavismo in coming
presidential elections,” said  Boris Segura , a Latin America
analyst at Nomura Securities International in  New York . “These
elections have taken an added importance because of the news
about Chavez’s health and the possibility that he may not be in
the political sphere going forward.”  Surgery Complications  Chavez suffered complications due to bleeding during
surgery Dec. 11 and his recovery won’t be immediate, Maduro said
yesterday. Under Venezuela’s constitution, elections must be
held within 30 days if Chavez steps down in the first four years
of his new term, which is set to begin on Jan. 10.  To neutralize the opposition after their best showing in an
election since Chavez took power in 1999, former Vice President
Elias Jaua was tapped to run against the 40-year-old Capriles in
Miranda.  Polls taken before Chavez announced his return to Cuba for
more surgery showed an uncertain outcome. A survey taken Nov.
21-26 by Caracas-based polling company IVAD predicted a
landslide win for Capriles, while another taken this month by
Hinterlaces favored Jaua by 49 percent to 44 percent.  Venezuela ’s opposition alliance will probably nominate
Capriles as its presidential candidate should elections be
called soon, provided he wins re-election as governor, Ultimas
Noticias reported yesterday, citing opposition officials. If
Capriles loses, the opposition would consider a different
candidate, according to the Caracas-based newspaper.  Capriles’s Agenda  Capriles won 44 percent of the Oct. 7 national vote, versus
55 percent for Chavez, after visiting more than 250 towns across
the country and promising to maintain some of the president’s
popular socials programs while gradually dismantling economic
policies such as currency and price controls.  Were Capriles, who returned to the governors office after
the failed presidential bid, to lose his re-election effort or
prevail by a slim margin, “a potentially divisive struggle for
the nomination in the opposition camp” would likely open up,
Bank of America Corp. said in a report yesterday.  The opposition needs to at least hold on to strongholds in
Miranda, Zulia and Tachira to ensure they can remain competitive
in forthcoming presidential elections, said David Smilde, a
sociologist the  University of Georgia  who wrote a book about
Chavez’s rule.  Government candidates will look to use their leader’s
health to motivate voters.  Voter Participation  “There’s a lot of people who only vote when Chavez is
candidate who might vote now,” Smilde said in a phone interview
from Caracas. “The higher the participation, the more favorable
it is for the government.”  Venezuelan dollar debt has gained the second most in
 emerging markets  this month after Argentine bonds and the second
best this year, trailing only the  Ivory Coast , as investors bet
that Chavez will step down, paving the way for a transition of
power, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.
Yields on Venezuela’s benchmark bonds due 2027 have plunged 4.42
percentage points this year to 9.07 percent.  Capriles, whose family founded the local unit of Nabisco
Inc. and owns the country’s biggest movie theater chain, has
expressed doubts about whether Chavez’s movement would be
competitive without its charismatic leader.  “The big question is whether there is Chavismo without
Chavez,” he said in an interview on Union Radio Dec. 11. “I
don’t think there is. It’s like a sandwich without the
filling.”  Whether that opinion is true will become clearer as results
come in during Sunday’s vote, said Smilde.  “These elections are a bellwether referendum on Chavez’s
legacy,” Smilde said. “They’re going to be a good indicator of
how much support for Chavez could transfer to a candidate such
as Maduro in the event of new presidential elections.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  