-- Chelsea Ready to Offer Falcao $16 Million a Year: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-12-14T06:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/chelsea-ready-to-offer-falcao-16-million-a-year-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Falcao Offer  Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich is willing to offer Atletico
Madrid striker Radamel Falcao a contract worth 10 million pounds
($16 million) a year to join the  London  club, the  Daily Mail
reported .  The Colombian is Chelsea’s top transfer target and
Abramovich is prepared to make him the club’s top earner with a
deal worth 200,000 pounds a week that would eclipse Fernando Torres’s 175,000 pounds-a-week salary, the newspaper said.  London Lure  Chelsea has emerged as the surprise favorite to sign
Arsenal’s Theo Walcott because the forward wouldn’t have to move
away from London, the  Sun reported .  The Blues have sent a scout to watch Walcott, who has
refused to sign a new contract at Arsenal worth 80,000 pounds a
week, and plan to use him in a central attacking role, the
newspaper added.  Polish Pursuit  Borussia Dortmund paved the way for Manchester United to
make a move for Robert Lewandowski at the end of the season
after the German club’s chief executive officer said
“economical factors” will decide the Polish striker’s future,
the  Daily Telegraph reported .  United is likely to face competition from Inter Milan and
Arsenal for Lewandowski, who has rebuffed Dortmund’s attempts to
extend his current contract and is said to be keen to follow
former teammate Shinji Kagawa to United, the newspaper added.  Strootman Chase  United is battling with Arsenal to sign PSV Eindhoven
midfielder Kevin Strootman, who’s rated at 17 million pounds,
the  Sun reported .  AC Milan, Liverpool and Tottenham Hotspur are also tracking
Strootman, 22, who could move in the January transfer window,
the newspaper added.  Henry Role  Arsenal shareholder  Alisher Usmanov  said former Gunners
striker Thierry Henry should join the club’s coaching staff
rather than returning as a player on a short-term loan from the
 New York  Red Bulls next month, the  Daily Mirror reported .  “Thierry should be involved at the club but not as a
player,” the newspaper cited Usmanov as saying. “He has
another role to play, a more important role.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  