-- Chile Keeps 5% Key Rate Amid Easing Prices and Surging Growth
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-12-14T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/chile-keeps-5-key-rate-amid-easing-prices-and-surging-growth.html
Chile ’s central bank kept its
benchmark  interest rate  on hold yesterday for the 11th straight
month as the slowest inflation in  Latin America  failed to dispel
concern that a booming economy may inflate prices.  The monetary policy board, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara, held the key interest rate at 5 percent, as forecast by
all 24 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg . Policy makers last
changed borrowing costs in January with a quarter-point
reduction that surprised economists.  Chile will post some of the fastest economic growth in the
Americas this year as consumer spending and investments offset
weaker exports. While the euro area crisis and the so-called
U.S. fiscal cliff pose threats to its growth, the nation boasts
some of Latin America’s soundest fundamentals, International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said.  “Chile’s numbers are fantastic,” Lagarde told students at
the University of Chile in Santiago yesterday. “Many countries
around the world would be envious of the numbers you’ve got:
high growth, controlled inflation, very low unemployment, a low
deficit getting lower and very low debt. Wow.”  Policy makers yesterday highlighted external risks while
pointing out that domestic growth has exceeded their estimates.
Changes in monetary policy will depend on the impact of economic
conditions on inflationary perspectives, the central bank said
in a statement accompanying the decision.  Beating Expectations  One-year swap rates, which reflect traders’ views of
borrowing costs, have increased 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 5.17 percent since Nov. 13 when policy
makers last met. That implies the benchmark rate will increase
to 5.25 percent within the year.  Gross domestic product rose 5.7 percent in the third
quarter from last year, beating estimates made by analysts on a
13 percent surge in investment and 6.4 percent gain in private
consumption. The economy measured by the central bank’s Imacec
index, which serves as a proxy for GDP, surged 6.7 percent in
October, the fastest pace this year.  “Activity and internal demand data evolved above
expectations in the third quarter,” the central bank said
yesterday. “The labor market remains tight.”  Wages climbed 3.3 percent in October from last year, while
the jobless rate fell to 6.6 percent in the three months through
October from 7.2 percent a year earlier.  Export Threat  The central bank expects economic growth to slow next year
as demand weakens for Chilean exports. The Andean nation posted
a $1.8 billion trade deficit in the third quarter compared with
a $312 million surplus in the year-ago period, according to
central bank data.  GDP will expand 5.5 percent in 2012 and 4.8 percent next
year, beating the Latin American average by at least one
percentage point in both occasions, the United Nations economic
commission for the region said in forecasts published Dec. 11.  While economic growth is beating expectations, inflation
fell to 2.1 percent last month from 2.9 percent in October,
surprising all 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg who forecast
rates ranging from 2.3 percent to 2.7 percent. The  consumer
price index  dropped 0.5 percent in November from the previous
month, according to the National Statistics Institute.  “The negative CPI variation of November obeyed one-time
factors,” the central bank said yesterday. “Inflation
expectations over the policy horizon remain aligned with the
target.”  Inflation will accelerate in 12 months to 2.9 percent while
remaining below the central bank target of 3 percent, according
to the median estimate of 59 traders polled by the central bank
Dec. 11. Inflation will hit the target two years from now,
according to the survey.  “The monetary policy rate may remain stable at 5 percent
in coming months,” Sebastian Senzacqua, an economist at Bice
Inversiones, said after yesterday’s decision. “The next change
mainly will depend on the evolution of local activity in coming
months and, more importantly, the evolution of inflation next
year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 