-- Chilean Peso Gains After Offshore Investors Cut Short Positions
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-12-14T18:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/chile-peso-heads-for-latin-america-s-biggest-weekly-advance.html
Chile ’s peso recorded its second
straight weekly gain as international investors cut bets against
the currency to  six-month lows  and the central bank held its
benchmark rate unchanged for an 11th month on faster-than-
forecast growth.  The peso appreciated 0.2 percent to 473.98 per U.S. dollar
at the close in Santiago. Its 0.6 percent advance on the week
was the second-highest among major Latin American currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after the Mexican peso.  Chile’s central bank yesterday left its  benchmark interest 
rate at 5 percent even after the inflation rate fell to a two-
year low. International investors in the Chilean peso forwards
market reduced bets against the peso to $6.5 billion on Dec. 12
from $7.4 billion a week earlier, according to central bank
data.  “People are starting to bet on rate rises next year and
that’s a magnet,” said Felipe Alarcon, an economist at Banco de
Credito & Inversiones in Santiago.  The central bank may raise rates as soon as the first
quarter of next year, sooner than implied by swaps prices,
economists at Banco Santander wrote today in a note to clients.  Consumer spending and investment are driving faster-than-
anticipated economic growth while the strengthening peso helps
tame inflation. The  economy  expanded more than economists
estimated in five of the six months through October, the latest
data available.  ‘Fantastic’ Numbers  “Chile’s numbers are fantastic,” International Monetary
Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde told students at the
University of Chile in Santiago yesterday. “Many countries
around the world would be envious of the numbers you’ve got:
high growth, controlled inflation, very low unemployment, a low
deficit getting lower and very low debt. Wow.”  The peso had fallen yesterday for the first time in eight
days. That reversed after a report showing Chinese manufacturing
growth is on course to accelerate this month. The December
reading for a purchasing managers’ index released by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics was 50.9, compared to 50.5 for
November. A number above 50 indicates expansion.  China  is Chile’s biggest trade partner and bought more of
the Andean country’s copper in October than the next four
biggest markets combined. China’s copper buying accounted for
more than 20 percent of all Chile’s exports.  Copper for March delivery rose as much as 0.9 percent to
$3.6945 a pound on the Comex in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  