-- China Scraps QFII Limit on Sovereign Funds, Central Banks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-16T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/china-scraps-qfii-limit-on-sovereign-funds-central-banks.html
China  scrapped a ceiling on
investments by overseas sovereign wealth funds and central banks
in its capital markets, part of government efforts to encourage
long-term foreign ownership and shore up slumping equities.  SWFs, central banks and monetary authorities can now exceed
the $1 billion limit that still applies to other qualified
foreign institutional investors, according to revised
regulations posted Dec. 14 on the State Administration of
Foreign Exchange’s website.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  jumped the most since October
2009 on Dec. 14 after the head of the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority said Dec. 13 that China may relax or abolish a rule
that requires  Renminbi  Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors
to keep most of their funds in bonds. The China Securities
Regulatory Commission has cut trading fees, pushed companies to
increase dividends and allowed  trust companies  to buy equities
since  Guo Shuqing  took over as chairman last year.  Introducing more long-term funds from abroad will help
improve market confidence, promote stable growth in capital
markets and provide “robust” investment returns to domestic
investors, the regulator said in May, a month after the
government more than doubled the total quota for QFIIs to $80
billion from $30 billion.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite has lost 2.2 percent this
year, while the MSCI China Index of mostly Hong Kong-traded
shares, open to overseas investors, has gained 18 percent as
U.S. bond purchases spurred foreign funds to pour money into
 emerging markets .  New Rules  QFIIs can repatriate their principal and investment returns
after a lock-up period ends, though the monthly net remittances
cannot exceed 20 percent of their total onshore assets as of the
previous year, according to the Dec. 14  rules . Open-ended China
funds can remit funds on a weekly basis under the new
regulation, compared with monthly in the previous version
announced in 2009.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority, Norges Bank, Government
of Singapore Investment Corp. and Temasek Holdings Pte.’s
Fullerton Fund Management Co. have all reached the $1 billion
limit as of Nov. 30, with QFIIs’ approved quotas totaling $36.04
billion, according to SAFE, the currency regulator. Foreign
investors can only invest in  capital markets  through QFIIs.  Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund was applying for a QFII
license and a $5 billion quota to invest in China, the China
Securities Journal said on its website in June, citing Energy
and Industry Minister Mohammed Bin Saleh al-Sada.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  