-- China Manufacturing May Expand at Faster Pace This Month
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-14T07:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/china-s-manufacturing-may-expand-at-faster-pace-in-december.html
China ’s manufacturing is expanding
at a faster pace this month, suggesting the factory recovery in
the world’s second-biggest economy may withstand a slowdown in
 exports .  The December preliminary reading was 50.9 for a purchasing
managers’ index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics. That compares with the 50.8 median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 12 economists and a final reading of
50.5 for November, the first time in 13 months it was above the
expansion-contraction dividing line of 50.  Chinese stocks had their biggest gain in three years as the
report bolstered confidence in the economic recovery even as
November’s trade and  new loans  trailed estimates. The data add
to signs of a strengthening rebound including factory output and
retail sales, which may smooth the transition to China’s new
leadership headed by  Xi Jinping .  “China’s ongoing growth recovery is gaining momentum
mainly driven by domestic demand conditions,”  Qu Hongbin , chief
China economist at HSBC in Hong Kong, said in a statement. At
the same time, a drop in new export orders and last month’s
below-forecast overseas shipments suggest “external headwinds”
are persisting, Qu said.  “This calls for Beijing to keep an accommodative policy
stance to counter-balance the external weakness, provided
inflation stays benign,” he said.  Work Conference  China’s top leaders may gather in the coming days for the
central economic work conference, an annual meeting to set a
policy framework for the following year. Officials “seem
content with the current pace of growth” and are likely to
maintain their language of a “prudent” monetary policy and
“proactive” fiscal stance, Capital Economics Ltd. said in a
Nov. 30 note.  The preliminary reading, called the Flash PMI, is based on
85 percent to 90 percent of responses to a Dec. 5-12 survey of
more than 420 companies, according to HSBC. The final number
will be released on Dec. 31.  A separate, government-backed  index (SHCOMP)  of purchasing managers
in manufacturing  rose  last month to 50.6, the highest since
April. The December figure is due Jan. 1.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index of stocks advanced
4.3 percent, paring the decline so far in 2012 to 2.2 percent.  Growth Rebound  China’s economic growth is poised to rebound this quarter
from the weakest pace in three years after the government
deployed measures including interest-rate reductions and the
acceleration of investment-project approvals. The nation’s new
home prices rose in November by the most in four months,
according to SouFun Holdings Ltd., the country’s biggest real
estate website owner, even as the government maintained
restrictions on purchases.  Gains in the HSBC and official gauges show “the positive
change is not a one-off phenomenon,” Ding Shuang, a Hong Kong-
based economist with Citigroup Inc. who previously worked at the
 International Monetary Fund , said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “More broadly, data since September confirm that
economic activity is improving and it appears that the cyclical
economic upturn is gaining momentum.”  Gross domestic product  may expand 8.4 percent this quarter
from a year earlier, up from 7.4 percent in the July-September
period, Zhang Zhiwei, Hong Kong-based chief China economist for
Nomura Holdings Inc., said in a note today. Growth momentum is
being “underpinned by expansionary monetary and fiscal
policies,” while inventories are shrinking to “more normal
levels,” Zhang wrote.  Mixed Picture  November data released earlier this week gave a mixed
picture of the economy. Industrial production accelerated for a
third month, climbing 10.1 percent from a year earlier, while
retail sales expanded at the fastest pace in eight months,
statistics bureau data showed. Meantime, exports, new  yuan  loans
and money supply all trailed forecasts.  Hyundai Motor Co.,  South Korea ’s biggest automaker, said on
Nov. 27 that it plans to increase production in China by 40
percent in three years and add higher-end models as it seeks to
gain market share in the world’s largest market.  Operating conditions will improve in China’s steel industry,
the world’s largest, this quarter and next year after nine
months of losses, the official Xinhua News Agency reported last
month, citing the China Iron & Steel Association.  While the economy is stabilizing, it will “face various
challenges that should not be underestimated” next year, the
ruling Communist Party’s Politburo said in its first assessment
under Xi, according to a Dec. 4 Xinhua report. The government
will keep macroeconomic policies stable and adjust them as
needed, Xinhua said.  Markit is also releasing preliminary PMI readings today for
the U.S., euro area, Germany and  France .  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Ailing Tan in  Singapore  and
 Rishaad Salamat  in  Hong Kong . Editors: Scott Lanman, Rina Chandran  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  