-- China Five-Year Swaps Rise in Week on Economic Recovery Optimism
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-14T09:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/china-5-year-swap-rate-set-for-weekly-gain-on-recovery-optimism.html
China ’s five-year  interest-rate
swaps  climbed this week on optimism the world’s second-biggest
economy is recovering from a seven-quarter slowdown.  China’s manufacturing may expand at a faster pace this
month, according to a purchasing managers’ index released today
by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. The report follows
Dec. 9 government data showing industrial production rose 10.1
percent in November and retail sales grew 14.9 percent, the
biggest increases since March. The central bank  drained  a net
125 billion  yuan  ($20 billion) of capital from the financial
system this week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The market was already optimistic about a growth recovery
in coming months, and the PMI release today affirms that view,”
said Wee-Khoon Chong, a strategist at Societe Generale SA in
 Hong Kong . “The view will likely continue to exert upside
pressure on interest-rate swaps.”  The five-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, this week to 3.65 percent in
Shanghai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It gained
five basis points today.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped four basis points this week to 3
percent, according to a weighted average rate compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. It rose 32 basis points
today.  The December preliminary PMI reading was 50.9, according to
HSBC and Markit Economics. That compares with the 50.8 median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 12 economists and a final
reading of 50.5 for November, the first time in 13 months it was
above the expansion-contraction dividing line of 50.  The yield on the 2.94 percent government bond due October
2013 dropped four basis points this week o 2.85 percent,
according to the Interbank Funding Center. It fell three basis
points today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in  Shanghai  at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  