-- Clearwire Mount Kellett Investor Spurns Sprint Offer
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-12-14T21:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/clearwire-mount-kellett-investor-spurns-sprint-offer.html
Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  investor Mount
Kellett Capital Management LP said  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s $2.90-
a-share offer to buy out the wireless-network company
“grossly” undervalues its assets, including its airwaves.  Clearwire’s unused spectrum, which can be used to offer
wireless phone and Internet service, is worth about $6 billion
to $9 billion alone, Mount Kellett said today in a statement.
The firm said it owns about 3.6 percent of Clearwire’s
outstanding stock, which it considers to be worth $6.30 a share.  “Mount Kellett acquired the shares for investment purposes
because we considered, and continue to consider, Clearwire’s
stock to be substantially undervalued,” the investment firm
said. “The company has significant upside potential as a
wireless broadband network operator given its spectrum holdings
and the growth in high-speed wireless demand in the U.S.”  Softbank Corp. (9984) , which is investing in Sprint in a separate
transaction, also is involved in the Clearwire discussions.
Sprint isn’t willing to increase the offer more than a small
amount, two people familiar with the negotiations said. Softbank
won’t agree to a bid above $2.97 a share, said one of the
people, who asked not to be named because the talks are private.
That was the price Sprint paid for Clearwire shares from
telecommunications pioneer  Craig McCaw  in a transaction
completed this week.  Nationwide Network  Sprint teamed up with Clearwire four years ago, aiming to
build a nationwide network that could compete with  Verizon
Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. (T)  Clearwire struggled to build out the
system and lost billions of dollars along the way, prompting
Sprint to give up on the joint venture. It now looks to use
Clearwire’s spectrum to help bolster its own network.  Sprint, which already owns more than 50 percent of
Clearwire, announced plans to acquire the remaining shares
yesterday in a deal worth $2.1 billion. Clearwire has a total
market value of about $4.6 billion. Sprint also offered to
provide the company with $800 million in financing.  Clearwire shares  rose 6.7 percent to $3.37 at the close in
 New York  trading. The stock had jumped 15 percent to $3.16
yesterday after Sprint’s offer was announced, suggesting that
investors expect Sprint’s bid to go higher.  Walter Piecyk , an analyst at BTIG LLC in New York, has said
that the offer may have to climb to more than $5 a share to win
over the majority of non-Sprint investors.  Softbank Money  Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier, is getting
an influx of cash from  Japan ’s Softbank, which agreed in October
to buy 70 percent of the company for about $20 billion. That’s
giving it more money to make deals.  Sprint said yesterday that it will probably have to
complete the Softbank deal before it can consummate the
Clearwire transaction. That condition puts unnecessary risks on
the deal and Clearwire’s shareholders, Mount Kellett said.  “If Sprint so wants to buy the company, it should put a
fair proposal on the table when it is in fact able to consummate
it,” the firm said in today’s statement.  When Sprint formed the Clearwire venture in 2008, it relied
on $3.2 billion in investments from  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Intel Corp .,
and cable companies such as Comcast Corp. and Time Warner Cable
Inc. As losses piled up, partners such as Google and  Time Warner
Cable (TWC)  sold their stakes for a fraction of their original value.  Even so, Clearwire’s spectrum could fetch a much higher
price, Mount Kellett said. Using AT&T’s acquisition of wireless
company NextWave Wireless Inc. as a benchmark, Clearwire’s
spectrum -- including its used and unused airwaves -- is worth
as much as $18 billion, the firm said. Including debt, estimated
taxes on a spectrum sale and other costs, Clearwire’s net value
works out to $9.2 billion, Mount Kellett estimated.  Plunging Value  Clearwire, which peaked at $33.30 in July 2007,  had slumped 
to as low as 90 cents earlier this year. The company is
projected by analysts to post a record $1 billion net loss for
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sprint began closing in on Clearwire in October, when it
offered to buy McCaw’s stake in the business. Sprint paid
McCaw’s investment company, Eagle River Holdings LLC, about $100
million for 30.9 million Class A shares and 2.73 million Class B
shares. Reuters  was first to report  that Softbank was using the
$2.97-a-share Eagle River price as its cap in the latest
Clearwire negotiations.  After Sprint completed that purchase this week, Clearwire
shareholder Crest Financial Ltd. filed a complaint in Delaware
Chancery Court in Wilmington accusing the parties of allowing
Sprint to selectively gain from Clearwire’s spectrum value while
minority shareholders couldn’t.  Damages Sought  Crest Financial, which said it owns 6.6 percent of
Clearwire’s Class A shares, has been seeking to block the
pending Softbank investment in Sprint and collect damages,
according to a statement.  Crest Financial, based in Houston, said yesterday that it
opposes the latest Sprint offer as well, calling it “the
capstone in Sprint’s ongoing effort to interfere with
Clearwire’s ability to operate as an independent company.”  With few signs that other buyers are interested in
Clearwire, investors may have to settle for what Sprint offers,
 Christopher King , a Baltimore-based analyst at Stifel Financial
Corp., said earlier this week.  “It’s Sprint or nobody,” he said. “They’re losing money
hand over fist. They’re burning so much cash. At the end of the
day, Clearwire’s worth what Sprint’s willing to pay for it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  