-- Coca-Cola Femsa to Buy 51% of Coke Bottler in Philippines
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-12-14T21:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/coca-cola-femsa-to-pay-689-million-for-51-in-philippines-firm.html
Coca-Cola Femsa SAB (KOFL) , the largest
publicly traded Coke bottler by volume, agreed to buy a 51
percent stake in Coca-Cola Bottlers Philippines Inc. for $689
million in its first acquisition outside of  Latin America .  The agreement includes an option for Coca-Cola Femsa to buy
the rest of the Philippines bottler within seven years of the
deal closing, the Mexico City-based company said in a statement.
It will also have the option to sell its ownership to  Coca-Cola
Co. (KO)  any time during year six, it said.  The deal gives Coca-Cola Femsa access to a nation of about
95 million people with a Coke-products consumption per capita
that was  40 percent  above the worldwide average last year. The
Philippines operation will sell about 530 million cases of
beverages this year, about 17 percent of Coca Cola Femsa’s
volume, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimates.  The Mexican bottler “is buying its way into what could
potentially become a whole new Southeast Asian opportunity” in
the long term, Antonio Gonzalez, an analyst with Credit Suisse
Group AG, wrote in a report. “There are not that many bottlers
in a position to have such serious global aspirations.”  Coca-Cola Femsa rose 1.2 percent to 187.93 pesos at the
Mexico City close. Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB, which
controls the bottler, rose 1.1 percent to 126.01 pesos. Coca-
Cola, based in Atlanta, rose 0.2 percent $37.66 in  New York .  Enterprise Value  The deal is expected to close early next year, according to
the statement.  Coca-Cola, the world’s biggest soft-drink maker, has owned
all of the Philippines unit since buying the 65 percent stake
owned by  San Miguel Corp. (SMC)  in 2007 for $590 million.  “This announcement reflects our long-standing belief in
the global franchise system,” Coca-Cola Chief Executive Officer
Muhtar Kent said in the statement.  The purchase price represents an enterprise value of $1.35
billion for the Philippines bottler, at a multiple of about 13.5
times expected 2012 earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization, or Ebitda, according to the statement.  Coca-Cola Femsa spent more than 24 billion pesos ($1.88
billion) since the start of 2011 to acquire soft drink makers
and add bottling rights. It bought the beverage unit of Grupo
Fomento Queretano for 6.6 billion pesos and the bottling
operations of Grupo Cimsa for 11 billion pesos. The company also
paid 6.55 billion pesos for the Coke division of Grupo Tampico
SA.  Deal Multiples  Those deals had multiples of between 9.6 times and 10 times
Ebitda, according to Alan Alanis, an analyst at JPMorgan in New
York. Coca-Cola Femsa paid about $2.50 per unit case of volume
in the Philippines deal, compared with about $4.80 in its
Mexican deals, Gonzalez said.  Coca-Cola Femsa is 49 percent owned by Fomento Economico
Mexicano and Coca-Cola has a 29 percent stake, according to its
 website . The  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation  and Cascade
Investment LLC, which manages money for billionaire Gates, own
about 19 percent of Coca-Cola Femsa’s American depositary
receipts, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  In addition to its home market, Coca-Cola Femsa has rights
to sell drinks such as Coke, Sprite and Fanta in parts of
 Guatemala ,  Nicaragua ,  Costa Rica ,  Panama , Colombia,  Venezuela ,
Brazil and Argentina, according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  