-- Companies Risk Voter Wrath in Profit-Wage Gap: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-12-14T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/companies-risk-voter-wrath-in-profit-wage-gap-cutting-research.html
The public may shift from “banker
bashing” to “corporate bashing” as companies go on a
borrowing binge to help reduce taxes.  Amid historically low  interest rates , companies have rushed
to borrow to optimize their balance sheets and increase
shareholder returns, Andrew Lapthorne, London-based global head
of quantitative strategy at  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , said in a Dec.
12 report.  The funds have let online retailer  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  pile up
cash, said Lapthorne, while  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the world’s largest
supplier of  database software , has accelerated dividend payments
and warehouse-club chain  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  has released
special dividends.  The looming challenge for such companies is that as profits
as a share of gross domestic product hit new highs and the share
of wages reaches new lows, the public’s patience may run out,
Lapthorne said.  Many companies are holding borrowed cash abroad rather than
spending it. That lets them avoid paying tax while deducting
interest payments -- thus shifting some of the burden to
taxpayers, Lapthorne said. He cites research suggesting such
“tax shields” can be worth as much as 40 percent of a
company’s debt.  “Fancy financial engineering may only bring the day of
reckoning forward far quicker than many companies and investors
expect,” said Lapthorne. “The risk for corporates, which have
enjoyed 25 years of declining corporate taxes, is that all this
financial engineering will put them right in the sights of cash-
strapped governments.”  U.S. post-tax profits, for example, have grown at about 8.7
percent per year since 1990, he said. That’s one percentage
point quicker than pretax profits. Already companies such as
Amazon and coffee-shop chain  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  are facing
criticism from U.K. lawmakers for using complex accounting
methods to minimize tax liabilities.  “By maintaining cash piles abroad whilst borrowing on a
subsidized basis at home, the already angry mob can only be
encouraged,” said Lapthorne.  * * *  The secret of success for world leaders may lie in their
ability to encourage something called the “thriving rate.”  That’s according to pollster Gallup Inc., which used more
than 1 million responses to opinion polls on more than 100
factors in 160 countries since 2005 to divine what leaders
should be tracking and targeting to satisfy their electorates.  The two best metrics are the share of population in  full-
time work  and the percentage of people who describe themselves
as thriving, Gallup’s Michelle Krogmeier, Elizabeth Mendes and
Lymari Morales said on the company’s  website  this week. Both
strongly correlate to gross domestic product per capita, they
said.  Denmark performs well on such measures, with a 45 percent
payroll-to-population share and 74 percent thriving rate.
 Central African Republic  is the worst case, with thriving and
payroll rates of 4 percent. The U.S. has a payroll rate of about
40 percent and thriving rate of about 50.  * * *  Newly appointed central bank chiefs fight inflation more
aggressively in the first one to two years of their tenure to
establish a reputation for  price stability , according to a paper
published this month by Matthias Neuenkirch of Germany’s RWTH
Aachen University.  He studied 50 changes at the top of central banks in 15
countries from 1974 to 2008.  He concluded that new central bank chiefs are more inclined
to raise interest rates, battling inflation more aggressively
early on to establish an inflation-averse reputation.  “One rationale for this behavior is that governors
anticipate public pessimism and, in an effort to avoid being
perceived as weak, immediately work to establish a hawkish
reputation,” Neuenkirch said.  The report may have added relevance in 2013 when the
central banks of the U.K.,  Japan ,  Canada  and  India  are all set
to change hands.  * * *  Wide receivers in American football are the most likely to
be arrested, according to a study by Stephen Bronars, a senior
economist at Welch Consulting in  Washington .  Bronars found wide receivers accounted for more than one
out of six arrests in the professional sport over the past
decade, which saw 489 National Football League players detained
for offenses more serious than speeding and lesser traffic
violations.  Wide receivers aren’t alone. Recent weeks have seen the
arrest of Dallas Cowboys defensive tackle Josh Brent, charged
with intoxication manslaughter following a car crash that killed
a teammate.  Still, the arrest rate for footballers has averaged 2.9
percent, compared with 10.8 percent for men 22 to 34 years old.
The rate has declined 40 percent in the last six years, Bronars
said.  The average for NFL teams is 15 arrests per decade with the
rate running as high as 36 for the  Minnesota Vikings .  * * *  Shifting tax from the “unlucky” to the “lucky” could
boost U.K. economic growth.  A study in this month’s Economic Journal concludes reducing
the income tax rate and increasing inheritance tax could induce
a “huge increase” in British economic growth. The authors were
 Harvard University ’s  Alberto Alesina , Gudio Cozzi of Durham
University and Noemi Mantovan of Bangor Business School.  Taxing inherited wealth rather than incomes would
redistribute wealth from those who are born “lucky” to the
“unlucky,” said the authors.  The bet is this would reduce perceptions of unfairness in
society and encourage people to be more productive, bolstering
expansion, they said.  Europeans are typically more averse to inequality than
Americans because centuries of feudalism, privilege by birth and
lack of social mobility have led Europeans to question whether
those who have money deserve it, the report said.  * * *  Global policy makers are in a race to devalue their way to
prosperity, according to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   Forty-five percent of U.S. economic growth since the end of
the 2009 recession has been due to exports, calculates Rick Rieder, BlackRock’s chief investment officer of fundamental
fixed income in  New York . That compares to 19 percent in each of
the two prior expansions. Overseas shipments accounted for just
3 percent of growth after the recession of the mid-1970s, he
found.  The  Federal Reserve  is “easing to get the currency down,”
Rieder told reporters Dec. 12. He predicts Japan and the euro
area will be more successful than the U.S. in winning the race
toward exchange-rate weakness.  * * *  A British consumer pays almost three times the tax for an
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPad tablet than an American does.  A study published Dec. 10 by accountants UHY Hacker Young
Group found 16.7 percent of the price of an iPad in the U.K. is
made up of taxes, compared with 5.7 percent in some U.S. states,
while Australians pay 9.1 percent and Germans 16 percent.  The global average is 14.9 percent, said the report, which
also calculated that Indians and Brazilians pay the highest
sales taxes of the 22 countries studied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  