-- Constancio Says ECB to Hire More Than 500 for Supervision
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-12-14T14:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/constancio-says-ecb-to-hire-more-than-500-for-supervision.html
The European Central Bank will hire
more than 500 new staff to adapt to its new role as banking
supervisor, ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said.  “I would say it would have to be slightly above 500, but
not reaching 1,000,” Constancio said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in Frankfurt today. “This has to be now
fully analyzed in detail after the very recent decisions.”  European Union finance ministers this week agreed to put
the ECB in charge of all 6,000 euro-area lenders in a deal that
paves the way for the currency bloc’s firewall fund to provide
direct bailouts to banks. The new supervisor should be
operationally ready by March 1, 2014, with 150 to 200 banks
automatically overseen by the ECB and the others being moved
under the auspices of the central bank if needed.  Until now, the ECB hasn’t published estimates on how many
people it might have to hire to fulfill its new obligations. The
legal framework that will underpin the central bank’s new role
is scheduled for completion by the end of February.  “The recruitment will have to be done mostly from the
national authorities, meaning national supervisors or national
central banks,” Constancio said, adding that the new hires will
be employed by the ECB.  One System  Constancio highlighted that while the ECB at first will
only oversee the region’s biggest banks directly, it will be in
charge of the entire euro area.  “I’d like to stress that we are talking about one
system,” he said. “The Single Supervisory Mechanism was given
legal competence over all the banks of participant countries.
The supervisory board will have the power to call for
centralized supervision for any bank or group of banks.”  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann today reiterated his
doubts that the ECB may not be able to separate monetary policy
from overseeing banks. He has called for a change in the
European Union treaty to prevent a conflict of interest.  “The ECB is not an obstruction,” Constancio said. “The
supervisory board is composed of the heads of supervision of
all” participating countries. “So all are there, sitting at
the table,” he said. “All the problems will be discussed and
decided collectively.”  Deposit Rate  Asked whether the ECB may lower interest  rates  if economic
conditions worsen, Constancio said that “the risks are to the
downside and if they materialize as they have done in the past,
certainly we will think to adjust our policies to face what will
be a different situation.”  The ECB at its policy meeting last week lowered its
economic outlook for the euro area and now forecasts the economy
will shrink 0.5 percent this year and 0.3 percent in 2013. It
left interest rates unchanged at a record low of 0.75 percent
for the refinancing rate and zero percent for the deposit rate.  While the Governing Council “has analyzed” moving the
deposit rate into negative territory, “we never pre-commit with
these things,” Constancio said. “We can do it, we are ready to
do it, there is no operational problem, but that does not mean
we are going necessarily to decide that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in  Frankfurt  at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  