-- Copper Extends Fifth Weekly Gain After China Data Boost
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-12-14T18:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/copper-extends-fifth-weekly-gain-after-china-data-boost.html
Copper futures advanced, capping the
longest run of weekly gains in two years, on signs of an
industrial recovery in  China  and the U.S., the biggest users of
the metal.  The preliminary December reading was 50.9 for a China
purchasing managers’ index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics, compared with a final reading of 50.5 for
November. A level above 50 indicates expansion. Industrial
production in the U.S. rose in November by the most in two
years, the  Federal Reserve  reported.  “We’re seeing better data out of China, and these kinds of
reports are reinforcing the idea that we’re moving in the right
direction and that things in the economy are improving, slow as
it may be,” Frank Cholly, a senior commodity broker at RJO
Futures in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.  Copper futures for March delivery climbed 0.6 percent to
settle at $3.683 a pound at 1:17 p.m. on the Comex in New York.
The metal added 0.5 percent this week, the fifth-straight weekly
rise and the longest rally since December 2010.  Output at U.S. factories, mines and utilities increased 1.1
percent last month after a revised 0.7 percent drop in October
that was more than initially estimated, the Fed said. Economists
forecast a 0.3 percent advance, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey. Manufacturing, about 75 percent of
production, surged 1.1 percent in November, the most this year.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months slipped 0.1 percent to $8,065 a metric ton ($3.66 a
pound).  Nickel, zinc and tin gained on the LME, while aluminum and
lead fell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  