-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise on Budget Talks; Harbinger Sells Bonds
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-12-14T21:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-on-pressure-to-break-budget-deadlock.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk climbed for a second day with budget talks in  Washington  to
avert a so-called fiscal cliff deadlocked.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, added 0.6
basis point to a mid-price of 95 basis points at 4:42 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The measure
is ending the week down 3.1 basis points, its fourth straight
week of declines.  The index rose yesterday from the lowest in almost two
months as President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner 
met to discuss a budget to avert more than $600 billion in
spending cuts and tax increases that will take effect next month
without action by Congress. Without signs of progress, investor
concern is mounting that a failure to reach a compromise will
harm the economy, hindering companies’ ability to repay debt.  “You’re going into a year-end, and every weekend is a
potential for an event risk tied to the fiscal cliff,”  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities
LLC in New York, said in a telephone interview. Markets will
rally or sell off “depending on the tone of the headlines
coming out of Washington,” he said.  Senate Republicans are discussing a legislative strategy
that would let Congress extend tax cuts for all except the
highest income levels, according to two Republican aides who
spoke on condition of anonymity.  Consumer Prices  Even as budget talks cast a pall over markets, the cost of
living fell more than forecast in November in a sign that U.S.
inflation remains in check.  The 0.3 percent decrease in the  consumer price index , the
first decline since May, followed a 0.1 percent gain in October,
the Labor Department reported today in Washington. The median
estimate of 80 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.2
percent drop.  Industrial production rose 1.1 percent last month, the
 Federal Reserve  said today, the most in two years and more than
the median forecast for a 0.3 percent advance in the Bloomberg
survey.  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million.  Harbinger Sale  Harbinger Group Inc. (HRG) , the holding company run by hedge-fund
manager  Philip Falcone , issued $700 million of bonds to
refinance debt. The company, which focuses on acquiring
controlling stakes in businesses, issued 7.875 percent notes due
July 2019 to yield 694 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Moody’s
Investors Service graded the new bonds B3, six levels below
investment grade, the ratings company said in a Dec. 10
statement.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index advanced 2.8 basis points to 480.4 basis points,
Bloomberg data show.  Credit swaps protecting against losses on the debt of
Alcatel-Lucent SA fell 8.3 percentage points to 15.6 percent
upfront as of 3:30 p.m. in New York, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Alcatel-Lucent reached a 1.6 billion-euro ($2.1 billion)
financing deal, gaining time to overhaul the French phone-
equipment maker and try to sell as much as 1.5 billion euros of
assets. The funding will allow the company to “aggressively”
consider all options to boost profitability, improve its
strategy and shore up the company’s finances, Chief Executive
Officer Ben Verwaayen said today in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  