-- Croatia May Seek IMF Cooperation After S&P Cut Debt to Junk
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-12-14T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/croatia-may-seek-imf-cooperation-after-s-p-cut-debt-to-junk.html
Croatia  may seek cooperation with
the  International Monetary Fund  and abandon a debt sale abroad
next year to avoid rising borrowing costs after  Standard &
Poor’s  cut the country’s sovereign debt rating to junk.  “We will not proceed with the plan to issue bonds abroad
in early 2013, and we will review plans to sell any debt abroad
in entire year,” Finance Minister Slavko Linic told reporters
in Zagreb late yesterday. “The government will also seriously
consider cooperation with the IMF.”  Croatia’s long-term credit rating was lowered one step
yesterday by S&P to BB+, the highest non-investment level, and
its short-term grade also fell one notch to B. The credit rating
company said Croatia’s structural and fiscal overhaul is
insufficient to promote growth and make government finances more
sustainable. The ratings carry a stable outlook, indicating that
S&P is more likely to keep them unchanged than cut or raise
them.  The Adriatic Sea nation, set to become the European Union’s
28th member in July 2013, is struggling to return to growth
after the economy shrank in four consecutive quarters. The
government on Nov. 19 said the  budget deficit  will widen as the
Cabinet repays debt and begins contributing to EU coffers after
its entry It also cut the 2012 forecast to a 1.1 percent
contraction, citing an investment drought due to  Europe ’s debt
crisis.  Rising Debt  Croatian public debt will increase to 55 percent of gross
domestic product next year, while state borrowing will total 27
billion kuna ($4.7 billion). The government expected to sell
about $2.5 billion of debt in January on the U.S. and European
markets, with a second round later in 2013 on Asian markets.  The rating cut will “make an already difficult situation
worse,” Linic said. “Conditions of doing business will be
harder for all, not only for the government.”  Linic said the rating downgrade will prompt the government
to review its 2013 budget. He reiterated the government will not
cut pensions and welfare payments or reduce public-sector wages,
as that would “lead to impoverishment for many people.”  The government will boost revenue by curbing the shadow
economy, and it will borrow money on the domestic market,
relying on cooperation with the central bank, Linic said.  Romania, Indonesia  The downgrade puts Croatia’s credit rating on par with
Romania and  Indonesia .  Fitch Ratings  on Nov. 29 lowered its
outlook for the former Yugoslav country’s debt, which it rates
at the lowest investment grade, to negative from stable.  “Structural and fiscal reforms implemented so far have
been insufficient to foster economic growth and place public
finances on a more sustainable path,” S&P said in the
statement. “Policy inertia and opposition from vested interests
that benefit from long-entrenched entitlements have contributed
to wage and price rigidities, the low participation rate, and
loss of economic competitiveness.”  The  economy  will contract 2 percent this year and stagnate
in 2013, recovering gradually to trend growth of 2 percent by
2015, according to S&P.  The 11-month-old Cabinet of Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic ,
which has vowed to reduce public spending and remove obstacles
to investment to speed up the sale of state companies, predicts
the budget deficit will widen to 3.1 percent of GDP next year,
while the economy will grow 1.8 percent.  Weak Dynamics  “The most disappointing element in the budget is not that
it targets a wider deficit, but that it abandons the
government’s commitment to the fiscal responsibility law,”
Abbas Ameli-Renani,  emerging markets  strategist at  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc , said by e-mail.  “Growth dynamics in Croatia are among the poorest in the
region, and the economy is unlikely to fare much better next
year,” Ameli-Renani said.  The yield on Croatian  government bonds  due July 2022 rose
to 4.5195 percent from 4.4369 percent.  After joining the EU, Croatia will benefit from structural
and cohesion funds from the bloc, along with higher foreign-
direct investment, S&P said. Still, prospects “for major
growth- and competitiveness-enhancing reforms” are limited, it
said.  Almost half the time, government bond yields fall when a
rating action suggests they should climb, or they increase even
as a change signals a decline, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook changes going
back as far as 38 years.  The rates moved in the opposite direction 47 percent of the
time for Moody’s and S&P. The data measured yields after a month
relative to U.S. Treasury debt, the global benchmark.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  