-- Croatia Debt Rating Cut to Junk by S&P
-- B y   B a l a z s   P e n z   a n d   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-12-14T20:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/croatia-debt-rating-cut-to-junk-by-s-p-on-lack-of-fiscal-resolve.html
Croatia  had its sovereign debt
rating cut to junk by Standard & Poor’s, which said the
country’s structural and fiscal overhaul is insufficient to
promote growth and make government finances more sustainable.  Croatia’s long-term credit rating was lowered one step to
BB+, the highest non-investment level, and its short-term grade
also fell one level to B, S&P said today in a statement. The
ratings carry a stable outlook, indicating that S&P is more
likely to keep them unchanged than cut or raise them.  The country will review its 2013 budget, call off plans for
a debt sale early next year and will consider working with the
International Monetary Fund, Finance Minister Slavko Linic said
in a press conference.  “This will make a difficult situation worse,” Linic said
of S&P’s action.  Croatia, which is set to become the European Union’s 28th
member in July 2013, is struggling to return to growth, after
the economy shrank in four consecutive quarters. The government
on Nov. 19 said the budget deficit will widen as the Cabinet
repays debt and begins contributing to EU coffers after entry in
July. It also cut the 2012 forecast to a 1.1 percent
contraction, citing an investment drought due to  Europe ’s debt
crisis.  “Reforms did not materialize, and neither did the initial
plan to cut public spending,” Zdeslav Santic, chief economist
at  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ’s local unit  Splitska Banka d.d. , said
today by phone.  Increasing Revenue  The government will seek to increase revenue from the
“gray economy,” Linic said, while avoiding cuts in pensions,
public-sector wages and social benefits.  The kuna was 0.1 percent lower at 7.5248 per euro at 8:53
p.m. in Croatia. The yield on Croatian government bonds due July
2022 rose to 4.5195 percent from 4.4369 percent.  The downgrade puts Croatia’s credit rating on par with
Romania and  Indonesia . Fitch Ratings on Nov. 29 lowered its
outlook for the former Yugoslav country’s debt, which it now
rates at the lowest investment grade, to negative from stable.  The  economy  will contract 2 percent this year and stagnate
in 2013, recovering gradually to trend growth of 2 percent by
2015, according to S&P.  The 11-month-old Cabinet of Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic ,
which has vowed to reduce public spending and remove obstacles
to investment to speed up the sale of state companies, predicts
the budget deficit will widen to 3.1 percent of gross domestic
product next year, while the economy will grow 1.8 percent.  ‘Policy Inertia’  “Structural and fiscal reforms implemented so far have
been insufficient to foster economic growth and place public
finances on a more sustainable path,” S&P said in the
statement. “Policy inertia and opposition from vested interests
that benefit from long-entrenched entitlements have contributed
to wage and price rigidities, the low participation rate, and
loss of economic competitiveness.”  After joining the EU, Croatia will benefit from structural
and cohesion funds from the bloc, along with higher foreign-
direct investment, S&P said. Still, prospects “for major
growth- and competitiveness-enhancing reforms” are limited, it
said.  Almost half the time, government bond yields fall when a
rating action suggests they should climb, or they increase even
as a change signals a decline, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook changes going
back as far as 38 years.  The rates moved in the opposite direction 47 percent of the
time for Moody’s and S&P. The data measured yields after a month
relative to U.S. Treasury debt, the global benchmark.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Balazs Penz in Budapest at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  