-- Cyprus’s Woes ‘More Serious Than Greece,’ Juncker Warns
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-12-14T14:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/cyprus-s-woes-more-serious-than-greece-juncker-warns.html
The fiscal situation in Cyprus, the
fifth euro-area nation to seek international aid, is “more
serious than  Greece ,” a danger overlooked by markets,
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said.  “My priority in the short-term for 2013 is Cyprus,”
Juncker, who heads the group of euro-area finance ministers,
told reporters in Brussels today. “It’s a problem one shouldn’t
underestimate, because it’s more serious than Greece. This isn’t
taken into consideration by the financial markets or the
international press.”  Cypriot banks need about 9.3 billion euros ($12.2 billion)
in fresh capital, according to a preliminary report by Pacific
Investment Management Co., Cypriot broadcaster RIK reported Dec.
9. Another 6 billion euros may be needed to refinance state debt
and 1.5 billion euros to cover fiscal deficits, Finance Minister
Vassos Shiarly said Nov. 22.  That would bring the total to 16.8 billion euros, almost
the size of Cyprus’s 17.9 billion-euro economy. The country’s
general government gross debt will rise to 89.7 percent of gross
domestic product this year, according to the European
Commission. That figure does not take into account any aid
Cyprus may receive.  “Cyprus’s debt is extremely high and the money they need
makes up basically 100 percent of their GDP,” Juncker said in
an interview. “It’s a very serious situation.”  President Demetris Christofias said today that Cyprus has
an agreement in principle with the so-called troika that
oversees euro-area bailouts, and the accord will be signed after
the results of Pimco’s assessment are available in mid-January.
“The negotiations have been difficult,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at  sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  