-- Deutsche Bank Found Partly Liable Over Kirch Media Bankru
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-12-14T16:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/deutsche-bank-found-partly-liable-over-kirch-media-bankru.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  was found partially
liable over the collapse of  Leo Kirch ’s media group and must pay
damages, which will be determined later, a German court said.  The Munich Higher Regional Court ruled the lender and its
former Chief Executive Officer  Rolf Breuer  are liable for
statements in 2002 before the Kirch group filed for bankruptcy.
The late media magnate’s heirs seek as much as 2 billion euros
($2.6 billion).  The case is one of several lawsuits continuing after Leo Kirch’s July 2011 death that allege the bank secretly plotted to
bring about the end of his media empire. Part of the conspiracy,
they argue, was a 2002 interview on Bloomberg Television in
which Breuer said “everything that you can read and hear” is
that “the financial sector isn’t prepared to provide further”
loans or equity to Kirch.  After almost two years of hearings, the court next will
hear more testimony from expert witnesses on how much to award
in damages, Presiding Judge Guido Kotschy said.  The trial spawned its own criminal probe over Breuer’s
testimony last year. Former Deutsche Bank CEO  Josef Ackermann ,
former Chairman  Clemens Boersig  and former board member Tessen von Heydebreck are also under investigation over their testimony
in the case. Deutsche Bank has denied wrongdoing by any of its
executives.  Always Setbacks  “In every litigation that takes that long, there are
always setbacks like this one today,” Peter Heckel, a lawyer
for the bank, said. “But this isn’t the end of the story.”  The court ruled today on appeal, overturning a lower
court’s dismissal of the suit. The judges said Deutsche Bank
can’t fight the case further. Heckel said the bank will analyze
the written judgment and then decide whether to petition the top
court to allow a second appeal.  At the last hearing, in November, Kotschy urged them to
settle, saying the court would likely find the bank liable, at
least in part, and damages could range from 120 million euros to
1.5 billion euros. The court hasn’t changed its assessment since
then, he said today.  This case bundled claims by 17 former Kirch companies in
the group. Six units’ cases were dismissed. The judges said one,
Kirch Media, can seek damages because it had to sell 70 million
shares of  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG (PSM)  in August 2003 for 7.50 euros
per share. Alongside 10 others, including one that held a
Formula One stake and the sports broadcasting rights group, it
can also claim damages caused by the Breuer interview, they
ruled.  New Rule  “This court intends to create a new legal rule: holding a
person liable for making use of his freedom of speech while
making use of his constitutional right to the free exercise of
your profession,” Markus Meier, another lawyer for Deutsche
Bank, told the judges today. “The top civil court must look
into whether that legal creation should be allowed to stand.”  Deutsche Bank rejected a settlement offer in March. The
lender and Kirch’s heirs discussed a possible 800 million-euro
deal, a person with knowledge of the negotiations said at the
time. The Frankfurt-based bank last year was said to have
rejected a 775 million-euro accord proposed by the Munich court.  Kirch, who was 84 when he died, sought as much as 3.3
billion euros in his claims against Breuer and Deutsche Bank. He
started his legal battle in 2002 after his group filed the
biggest German bankruptcy. A case seeking about 1.5 billion
euros is pending at another chamber of the same Munich court.  Today’s case is: OLG Muenchen, 5 U 2472/09.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  