-- Dutch Fishing Port Overtakes Detroit as Top Aluminum Location
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-12-14T15:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/dutch-fishing-port-overtakes-detroit-as-top-aluminum-location.html
The Dutch city of Vlissingen, a
former fishing village, surpassed  Detroit  as the largest
location for aluminum in London Metal Exchange warehouses.  Inventories in Vlissingen climbed 1.4 percent to a record
1.44 million tons, LME figures showed today. Stockpiles in
Detroit dropped to 1.42 million tons. It’s the first time
Vlissingen had more aluminum stockpiles than Detroit since at
least 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Supplies of the metal used in cars and planes have doubled
in Vlissingen since December last year while they climbed 21
percent in Detroit. Some inventories are being used in financial
transactions and aren’t available to consumers, while buyers
have to wait to obtain metal from LME warehouses.  “There is a different value of stock depending on where it
is with the metal held in Vlissingen and Detroit not being
particularly useful to anyone given the queues there,” Nic Brown, head of commodity research at Natixis SA in  London , said
by phone today. Detroit and Vlissigen “have been going neck and
neck for a while now.”  At the current minimum daily delivery rate set by the LME,
it may take as long as 48 weeks to get metal at warehouses in
Vlissingen, and as long as 54 weeks in Detroit.  Pacorini Metals, owned by commodities trader Glencore
International Plc, has 40 out of 42 storage points in
Vlissingen, according to the LME  website . That compares with
seven sites it had in August 2011. Metro International Trade
Services LLC, owned by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., has 29 of 37
warehouses in Detroit.  Warehouse Owners  “Those are the two locations where there are some of the
biggest concentrations of warehouse ownership,” Gayle Berry, an
analyst at Barclays Plc in London, said by phone today. “When
you marry that up with LME load-out rate, which is per warehouse
company per location, then it means that  metal  coming out from
those locations will be much smaller than from locations where
there are several warehouse companies and less concentration of
warehouse ownership.”  The LME, which has a network of more than 700 warehouses
worldwide, requires companies with metal stockpiles of more than
900,000 tons to deliver at least 3,000 tons a day. The exchange
doubled the rate in April to tackle waits in Detroit. It will
introduce a separate delivery requirement for nickel and tin and
may add an extra 500-ton minimum load-out rule for locations
where at least 30,000 tons of a single metal is earmarked for
delivery, the exchange said last month.  Aluminum Record  Stockpiles of aluminum in LME-monitored warehouses rose to
a record 5.2 million tons on Nov. 30. About 80 percent may be
tied to so-called financing transactions, according to Barclays.
A financing transaction involves a simultaneous purchase of
metal for nearby delivery and a forward sale to take advantage
of a market in contango, when contracts with later delivery
dates trade at higher prices than nearer-dated metal. Financing
costs and expenses to store metal influence profits on the
transactions.  “The large amounts of metal locked up in Detroit and
Vlissingen are almost certainly linked to long-term financing
deals,” Brown said. “If you are buying  aluminum  and you are
given a warrant for metal in a location somewhere, those two are
the very last ones you want to be given. Clearly if there is
easy access to metal elsewhere then warrants of metal held in
other locations will be significantly more valuable than metal
held in Detroit and Vlissingen.”  Warrants are documents entitling holders to take possession
of a specific amount of metal at a particular LME-approved
warehouse. They are issued by warehouse companies on request
from owners of metal that has been delivered into an approved
location. Vlissingen was listed as an LME location in 1995 and
approved for storing aluminum a year later and Detroit was
listed for storing metals in 1992, according to the LME.  Aluminum for three-month delivery fell 0.4 percent to
$2,117.25 a ton by 3:51 p.m. on the LME. Prices are up 4.8
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  