-- The First Time Tech Ruined the Music Business
-- B y   S t u a r t   B a n n e r
-- 2012-12-14T16:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/the-first-time-tech-ruined-the-music-business.html
The music business was in
turmoil at the turn of the century. Technological
innovation had made songs much easier to copy, and
established artists foresaw their sales plummeting.  The companies that had once dominated the industry
were rapidly losing ground to upstarts who produced new
devices for playing music. The established companies urged
Congress to tighten up the law to prohibit copying, while
the innovators argued that any such change would only harm
consumers.  This sounds like a story about how  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
disrupted the music business in the past decade, but it
actually describes the years around 1900. The technological
change was the invention of sound recording.  Before sound could be stored and reproduced, the music
business was built on the sale of sheet music. Stephen
Foster sold more than 130,000 copies of “Old Folks at Home”
in the early 1850s. “On the Banks of the Wabash,” a hit in
the 1890s for the composer Paul Dresser, sold more than
half a million. To the extent there was much income in
composing, it came from publishing sheet music.  Edison’s Invention  Then everything changed. Thomas Edison built the first
phonograph in 1877. By the 1890s, phonograph makers and
companies selling cylinders and disks containing recorded
music were proliferating. Record sales skyrocketed, from
about 500,000 in 1897 to 2.8 million only two years later,
and they kept rising thereafter. The player piano, capable
of reproducing music from rolls of perforated paper, came
on the market in the first decade of the 20th century.
Millions of them were sold between 1900 and 1930.  Sound had once been a fleeting sensation, but now it
was a commodity capable of being sold -- it could become
property. But who owned it?  The music publishers, and the composers they
represented, insisted they did. “I myself and every other
popular composer are victims of a serious infringement on
our clear moral rights,” declared John Philip Sousa,
perhaps the most commercially successful composer of the
era. The new  record companies  were hiring musicians to
record Sousa’s marches, and they were selling the cylinders
and disks in huge numbers, but they weren’t paying Sousa
anything.  All the profits went to the record companies and to
popular performers like Enrico Caruso. “They pay Mr. Caruso
$3,000 for each song,” complained Victor Herbert, another
well-known composer. “He might be singing Mr. Sousa’s song,
or my song, and the composer would not receive a cent.” If
customers bought records and piano rolls instead of sheet
music, the composers worried, their primary source of
income would dry up.  On the other side of the debate were the rapidly
growing manufacturers of player pianos, piano rolls,
phonographs and records. Allowing composers to control the
use of songs, they argued, would destroy this new industry
just as it was getting off the ground. Records and piano
rolls wouldn’t cut into sheet music sales, they contended.
Instead, recordings might actually promote sheet-music
sales, by serving as a form of free advertising: Customers
would be eager to play for themselves the songs they heard
on record.  Choking Supply  Allowing composers and music publishers to exact a
toll would only make recordings more expensive, the new
companies added. The purpose of the copyright law was to
encourage the production of creative work, but the
composers were asking for a reform that would choke off the
supply of music, one that would benefit themselves at the
expense of their listeners.  And why should the law be especially solicitous of
composers? They weren’t the only creators of recorded
music, the industry pointed out. There were several steps
between printed notes and a record, each of which required
just as much talent and hard work, and each of which was
just as essential to the finished product. “It takes the
genius of a Sousa to play into the horn,” argued a lawyer
for the American Graphophone Co. “It takes the voice of the
magnificent singer to sing into the horn; and it takes the
skill of the mechanician who is operating the graphophone.”  Caught between these two powerful forces, Congress did
nothing but hold hearings for several years. The impasse
was eventually broken by a compromise enacted as part of
the  Copyright Act of 1909 . The composers were granted the
right to forbid recordings of their compositions, but once
a composer permitted one recording to be made, anyone else
could make one, upon payment to the composer of a royalty
set at 2 cents per copy. Composers thus received a share of
the revenue, but probably not as much as the most famous
ones could have commanded had they been able to negotiate a
price. This arrangement, with some tinkering, has been with
us ever since.  The larger story is the role of technological change
in the creation of property rights. When sound could be
stored and reproduced it could be sold in new ways. For the
first time, there were gains to be had from establishing a
system of property rights in sound. So we established one.
But whose rights would they be? And where would those
boundaries be located?  The answers to these questions would determine how the
spoils of technological advance were divided. And they
would help define the relationship between creators,
consumers and commercial intermediaries. They’ve never been
fully resolved.  ( Stuart Banner  is the Norman Abrams Professor of Law
at the  University of California ,  Los Angeles , and the
author of “American Property: A History of How, Why, and
What We Own.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Stuart Banner at
 banner@law.ucla.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy
Lavin at  tlavin1@bloomberg.net  or. 