-- ECB Ambition Fulfilled for Mersch as Bowles’s Gender Fight Rages
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-12-14T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/ecb-ambition-fulfilled-for-mersch-as-bowles-s-gender-fight-rages.html
Yves Mersch is about to fulfil an
ambition denied to the Luxembourg central bank governor for
months in a fight over gender politics as he fills the vacant
slot on the European Central Bank’s Executive Board.  After the longest battle over an appointment in the
Frankfurt-based ECB’s 13-year history, the 63-year-old will
tomorrow officially change job and become the sixth member of
the central bank’s management team. His first working day will
be Dec. 17, and the first Governing Council gathering he will
attend in his new role takes place two days later.  With Mersch claiming his desk in the Eurotower, as the
ECB’s headquarters is known, the Executive Board will have a
full complement for the first time since May. The delay followed
a wrangle over candidates between euro-area finance ministers,
and then the objection of European Parliament lawmakers at the
lack of senior women at the ECB.  Sharon Bowles , the Parliament’s
Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee chairwoman, has pledged
to intensify pressure on the matter.  “If anything, Parliament’s resolve has been stiffened,”
she said in a telephone interview from Strasbourg,  France . “I
really hope that the next time a very senior position comes up
we won’t have to insist again, but we will if we have to.
Frankly, it’s getting ridiculous at this stage.”  All 17 central bank governors in the euro area are male, as
are the other members of the ECB Executive Board, and few of its
senior managers are women. The ECB added a female senior
official on Oct. 19 when it hired Christine Claire Graeff as
director general for communications and language services.  No Vacancy  Two women, Sirkka Haemaelaeinen of  Finland  and Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell of  Austria , have sat on the ECB board. Assuming
current members serve full terms, the next chance to appoint a
woman won’t be until Vice President  Vitor Constancio  steps down
in June 2018.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  conceded on Nov. 8 that on
gender diversity, the institution “should improve at management
level.” He said it has launched a number of initiatives “to
encourage female staff to pursue management functions.”  Bowles said that she has met with female ECB managers who
have complained about lack of promotions at the central bank.  “There is no rhyme or reason for it,” she said.  The shift of sweeping new powers to supervise banks agreed
by finance ministers yesterday to help stem the debt crisis
might still provide a chance to focus on appointing women. The
new supervisor should be ready by March 1, 2014. Mersch’s future
colleague on the Executive Board,  Joerg Asmussen , said on Oct. 1
that the new institution will create “a good opportunity” to
put more women into top posts.  Portfolio Choice  Mersch’s own responsibilities at the ECB have not been
determined yet, an ECB spokesman said. Draghi will have the
option to transfer oversight of the ECB’s legal portfolio to
Mersch, who is a lawyer by training.  Mersch, the longest-serving central-bank chief in the euro
area, has recently broken ranks with his traditional inflation-
fighting ally, the Bundesbank, to defend the ECB’s new bond-
purchase program, which the German central bank opposes. He said
on Oct. 23 that the Bundesbank’s critical stance has “led to
uncertainty and confusion in large parts” of  Germany .  While Mersch can now look forward to scrutiny on his policy
stance at the ECB rather than his gender, the pressure on Draghi
is unlikely to dissipate, said  Carsten Brzeski , a former
European Commission official, who at ING Group in Brussels.  The gender issue “is not going to go away and is a nettle
the ECB and the national central banks will have to grasp
eventually,” he said. “Quite frankly, it looks a bit odd in this
day and age to have an all-male board at one of the most
important institutions in  Europe .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  