-- ECB Says Risks Remain as Financial Tensions Ease Tangibly
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-12-14T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/ecb-says-risks-remain-as-financial-tensions-ease-tangibly.html
The  European Central Bank  said there
are still risks to financial stability in the euro area, even
after tensions abated “tangibly” in the last half year.  “Key financial-stability risks remain and there is no room
for complacency,” the Frankfurt-based central bank said in its
biannual Financial Stability Review published in  Frankfurt 
today. At the same time, “stresses on the euro-area financial
system have eased tangibly since the summer, as the intensity of
self-fulfilling and destructive confidence spirals has
dissipated,” according to the report.  European stocks have rallied 20 percent since this year’s
low on June 4 and bond yields in Spain and  Italy  have subsided
after ECB President  Mario Draghi  on July 26 pledged to save the
euro and subsequently unveiled and unlimited bond-buying plan
that would be activated if a country asks for aid.  Europe ’s
leaders have also charged the ECB with supervising the region’s
lenders in an effort to bolster confidence in the banking sector
and defeat the crisis that has roiled markets since late 2009.  “An unequivocal commitment by the ECB to combat unfounded
concerns about euro revocability has played a key role in this
development by mitigating the tail risks that had been priced in
to financial-asset prices,” according to the report.  Pressure Eases  ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said today that the
bond-buying program and decision by governments on the “future
deepening of integration in Europe” through measures including
the banking union helped ease pressure on financial markets.
Still, he told reporters in Frankfurt that “there is still a
lot of pressure on the funding of banks.”  At the same time, the report reiterated that the central
bank “cannot address the root causes” of the crisis and that
broader policy action has “remained uneven across countries.”  The ECB identified three key risks to a stable financial
system in the euro area: a renewed aggravation of the crisis due
to waning government efforts, further deterioration in bank
profitability and  credit quality  owing to a “weak macro-
financial environment” and fragmented markets exacerbating
“funding strains for banks in countries under stress.”  The functioning of money and debt markets has remained
“impaired, notwithstanding ECB action,” such as cutting its
deposit rate to zero and pumping more that $1 trillion into the
banking system via three-year loans, according to the report.  “Strides toward improving fundamentals at the national
level, whilst simultaneously working to sever sovereign-bank
feedback loops, are critical to resolving the pernicious
fragmentation of funding and capital markets,” the ECB said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  