-- Emerging Stocks Rise a Fourth Week as Economies Rebound
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-12-14T22:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/emerging-market-stocks-snap-seven-day-advance-china-rallies.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, pushing
the benchmark index to a fourth weekly advance, as signs
economies in  China  and the U.S. are rebounding bolstered the
outlook for energy and commodity producers.  PT Adaro Energy Tbk (ADRO)  led weekly gains in the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index as coal prices increased and  Dongfang Electric
Corp. (1072)  jumped 13 percent after figures showed China’s electricity
production climbed the most since February last month.  Material
and energy companies  were the best weekly performers among 10
industry groups, with  ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL)  and  Vale
SA (VALE3)  leading the gains.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index was little changed at
1,042.82 in New York, as the gauge advanced 1.8 percent for the
week and posted the longest stretch of gains since August.
Manufacturing in China grew for the second month, according to a
preliminary reading for December of a purchasing managers’ index
compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. U.S.
industrial production rose in November by the most in two years
following superstorm Sandy.  “We’re seeing a building body of indicators suggesting
that growth is starting to rebound,”  Nick Chamie , global head
of emerging-markets and currency strategy at Royal Bank of
Canada, said in a phone interview from Toronto. “We’re feeding
off of an improving data profile.”  Bolstered Confidence  The emerging markets gauge surged 3.5 percent in the
previous seven sessions, keeping its 14-day  relative strength
index  at 78 today, above the 70 level suggesting in technical
analysis the asset may be overbought and set for a reversal.  The December preliminary reading for HSBC’s purchasing
managers index for China at 50.9 compares with the 50.8 median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists and a final
reading of 50.5 for November, the first time in 13 months it was
above the expansion-contraction dividing line of 50.  Chinese stocks rallied as the manufacturing report,
combined with factory output and retail sales data earlier this
week, bolstered confidence in the economic recovery. The
 Shanghai  Composite advanced 4.3 percent this week, the biggest
gain in 13 months and extending last week’s 4.1 percent rally.
The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  climbed 1.5 percent to a
nine-month high, capping a fourth week of gains. Taiwan’s Taiex
index retreated 0.8 percent today, the most since Nov. 21,
trimming a weekly advance of 0.7 percent.  “It looks like institutional investors are re-entering the
market, and they have to increase their stock positions now in
order not to miss the boat,” said Dai Ming, a fund manager at
Hengsheng Hongding Asset Management Co. in Shanghai, which
manages $190 million. “The economy has stabilized.”  India, Brazil  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Composite Index (PCOMP)  lost 1.4
percent, the biggest decline since July 9, after the central
bank said it will implement a new rule on capital inflows.
Russia’s Micex advanced 0.2 percent, boosted by OAO Mechel and
OAO Rosneft, as crude oil rose 1 percent in New York. The S&P
GSCI Spot Index rose 0.9 percent today, the most in two weeks.  The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  advanced for the first time
in six days and the rupee dropped for a third day after
inflation unexpectedly eased in November.  Brazil ’s Bovespa index rose 0.5 percent, extending the
weekly advance to 1.9 percent. Vale, the world’s biggest iron-
ore exporter, climbed 3.2 percent to extend gains this week to
7.7 percent.  Emerging-market equities could return as much as 20 percent
to investors next year as consumers drive growth in developing
nations, leaving them less reliant on the U.S. and Europe, Allan Conway, head of emerging-market equities at Schroder Investment
Management, said by phone from London in a Dec. 10 interview.  “The relative resilience of emerging markets over the last
decade has just been increasing, and this trend will continue,”
said Conway, who manages about $25 billion.  ArcelorMittal, Africa’s largest steelmaker, rallied 13
percent for the week.  Australia , the world’s biggest iron-ore
exporter, said on Dec. 12 that it raised its price estimate for
next year on expectation that infrastructure projects and
stimulus spending by China, the world’s biggest buyer, will
boost demand.  ‘Trading Rule’  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, added 0.4
percent to $43.38. The  Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, dropped 1 percent to 21.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S Treasuries rose 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 272, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Index.  Investors poured $5.3 billion into developing-nations
equity funds in the past week, bringing four-week inflows to 1.7
percent of their assets under management, Michael Hartnett, the
chief investment strategist at Bank of America, wrote in an e-
mailed report dated yesterday. That triggers a sell signal from
Hartnett’s fund flows “trading rule,” which says four-week
inflows totaling at least 1.5 percent of assets under management
precede market declines.  MSCI’s developing-nations index has risen 14 percent this
year, beating a 12 percent gain by the MSCI World Index of
developed countries. The emerging-market gauge trades at 12
times estimated profit, compared with the MSCI World’s 13.6,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  iPhone 5  The gauge of technology stocks in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index slid 1.1 percent today, leading declines.  Largan Precision
Co. (3008)  dropped for a fourth day on speculation shipments may
retreat 30 percent in the first quarter on weaker demand for
Apple’s iPhone 5, Mega Securities Co. analyst Huang Chien-hao
said by phone in Taipei. Largan acting spokeswoman Josephine
Huang said the company was unable to comment on first-quarter
shipments.  Orders for the iPhone 5 for the first quarter were recently
lowered by between 10 percent and 30 percent at many component
makers of in-cell panels, crystal and polarizers, Tammy Lai, an
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., said in a report dated today.  “There’s a lot of speculation that iPhone shipments in the
first quarter will be weak so related suppliers slumped,”
Parker Wu, who helps oversee the equivalent of $98 million at
Agriculture Bank of Taiwan, said by phone in Taipei today.  Yuan Weakens  The  yuan  led losses among major emerging-market currencies
against the dollar today while Poland’s zloty appreciated 0.2
percent versus the euro.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) , a copper producer with the European
Union’s largest output, rallied for a fifth day.  Hon Hai sank 4.7 percent, its first retreat in three days.
Macquarie cut the company to neutral from outperform, citing
weaker demand for the iPhone 5 and iPad. Hon Hai spokesman Simon Hsing wasn’t immediately available for comment on his mobile
phone.  LG Display Co. (034220)  fell 3.9 percent, extending its losses this
week to 10 percent. The drop reflects investor concerns over the
near-term earnings outlook due to Apple’s order cut for in-cell
panels, according to an e-mailed report from Barclays today.  Gome Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd. (493) , China’s second-
largest electronics retailer, jumped 7.2 percent in Hong Kong,
the third-biggest gain in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, after
Citigroup Inc. advised investors to buy the shares.  PT Unilever Indonesia (UNVR) , a unit of the world’s second-largest
consumer goods company, surged 9.1 percent in Jakarta, snapping
a two-day, 22 percent slump. The stock was the worst performer
for the week on the emerging markets gauge, declining 15
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  