-- Emerging-Market Fund Flows Signal Drop to Bank of America
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-12-14T10:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/emerging-market-fund-flows-signal-selloff-bank-of-america-says.html
Emerging-market stocks are poised to
fall after developing-nation equity funds had the biggest weekly
inflows in 10 months, exceeding a level that preceded previous
selloffs, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Investors poured $5.3 billion into the funds in the past
week, bringing four-week inflows to 1.7 percent of their assets
under management, according to a report dated yesterday from
 Michael Hartnett , Merrill’s chief investment strategist. That
triggers a sell signal from Hartnett’s fund flows “trading
rule,” which says four-week inflows totaling at least 1.5
percent of assets under management precede market declines.  Markets most vulnerable to potential sell-offs will be
those currently most overbought, such as Turkey,  Mexico , China
and  India , the strategist said. When the last sell signal
occurred in February, developing-nation equities peaked in
absolute terms a month later, Hartnett said. The average drop
after previous sell signals was 4 percent in the following four
to five weeks, according to the report.  “Trading Rule thus flashes ‘sell,’ warning  emerging
markets  too crowded and likely to underperform developed markets
over the next four to five weeks,” Hartnett wrote.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  yesterday climbed to the
highest level since April 3. The developing-nations measure
trades at 12 times estimated earnings after rising 14 percent
this year, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 13.7, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The developed countries’ gauge has
advanced 12 percent this year.  Emerging markets will lag behind developed nations in 2013,
John-Paul Smith, a strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in  London ,
wrote in an e-mailed report dated Dec. 10. The view contrasts
with Templeton Emerging Markets Group’s  Mark Mobius , who said on
Dec. 12 developing-nation  stocks  will climb in 2013, extending
this year’s rally, as central banks worldwide add money to the
financial system and spur investors to seek higher returns.  Some strategists use fund inflows as a contrary indicator
because they may signal investors with a positive view of the
market have already purchased shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  