-- Emerging Stocks to Earn 20% on Decoupling, Schroder Says
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-12-14T19:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/emerging-stocks-to-earn-20-on-decoupling-schroder-says.html
Emerging-market equities are set to
return as much as 20 percent to investors next year as consumers
drive growth in developing nations, leaving them less reliant on
the U.S. and  Europe , Schroder Investment Management says.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) , the benchmark stock gauge
for 21  emerging markets , and the MSCI World Index of developed-
nation stocks are diverging by the most in almost six months,
with the developing-country measure’s 120-day correlation
coefficient with the MSCI World falling to 0.73 today, the least
since June 28, data compiled by Bloomberg show. A reading of 1
indicates securities are moving in tandem.  “The relative resilience of emerging markets over the last
decade has just been increasing, and this trend will continue,”
Allan Conway, head of emerging-market equities at Schroder in
 London , where he manages about $25 billion, said in a phone
interview Dec. 10. “Part of it is the massive consumer demand
story in places like  India  and  China  which has led to both
domestic demand and changes in global trade patterns, the key
factors behind decoupling.”  Conway’s  Schroder International Selection Fund - Emerging
Markets (SCHIMIA)  has returned 21 percent in 2012 and beaten 84 percent of
its peers, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In August 2009 he
predicted emerging-market stocks would extend their 52 percent
gain that year. The MSCI developing-nations index ended 2009 up
75 percent, a record  annual advance .  334% Return  The emerging-markets gauge has returned 17 percent in 2012
and 334 percent over the past 10 years, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That compares with a 15 percent return for the
 Standard and Poor’s 500 Index  this year and the 19 percent
earned on the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)  U.S. equities have
returned 90 percent since 2002, and European shares 86 percent.  The  International Monetary Fund  is  predicting  emerging-
market economies will grow 5.6 percent next year, while the
Washington-based lender’s forecast for global expansion is 3.6
percent, according to an Oct. 9 report. India and China will
drive economic growth among developing nations in 2013,
according to Conway.  China’s economy is already showing signs of climbing out of
its seven-quarter slowdown with  retail sales  rising at the
fastest pace since March last month and indications that factory
output is climbing.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic shares has
returned 0.3 percent in 2012, while India’s BSE India Sensitive
Index earned 27 percent, the most of the biggest emerging
markets. Offshore funds plowed $22.24 billion into Indian
equities this year, the most among 10 Asian markets tracked by
Bloomberg, excluding China.  Selloff Trigger  Developing-nation stocks are poised to fall, exceeding a
level that preceded previous selloffs, after emerging-market
equity funds posted the most weekly inflows in 10 months,
according to Bank of America Corp.  Investors poured $5.3 billion into the funds in the past
week, bringing four-week inflows to 1.7 percent of their assets
under management,  Michael Hartnett , the New York-based chief
investment strategist at Bank of America, wrote in an e-mailed
report yesterday. That triggers a sell signal from Hartnett’s
fund flows “trading rule,” which says four weeks of inflows
totaling at least 1.5 percent of assets under management precede
market declines.  Markets most vulnerable to potential sell-offs will be
those currently most overbought, such as  Turkey ,  Mexico , China
and India, Hartnett said. When the last sell signal occurred in
February, developing-nation equities peaked in absolute terms a
month later, Hartnett said. The average drop after previous sell
signals was 4 percent in the following four to five weeks,
according to the report.  ‘Very Positive’  India’s gross domestic product expanded 5.3 percent last
quarter, while  China’s economy  grew 7.4 percent in the third
quarter. U.S. GDP rose 2.7 percent and the euro area economy
contracted 0.6 percent amid the ongoing sovereign debt crisis.  “The emerging markets’ economic fundamentals as far as the
fiscal and trade situation are very positive,” Conway said.
Returns on emerging-market stocks will rise as Europe continues
to “muddle through” its debt woes and the U.S. resolves its
disagreements over the  federal budget , he said.  The  MSCI emerging-markets gauge ’s rally this year has sent
valuations to 12 times estimated earnings, compared with the 12
percent increase in the developed-market index, which has a
valuation of 14, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Extremely Healthy’  Improvement in global manufacturing should also help stoke
gains in emerging markets, according to Jan Dehn, co-head of
research at Ashmore Investment Management Ltd., which oversees
about $68 billion in emerging market assets. Chinese
manufacturing is expanding at a faster pace this month from
November, according to a preliminary reading released today of a
purchasing managers’ index compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics.  “The broader outlook for emerging markets remains
extremely healthy,” Dehn said in a Dec. 11 phone interview from
London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  