-- EU Bank Regulation Deal Marks Path to True Economic Union
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-14T17:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/eu-bank-regulation-deal-marks-path-to-true-economic-union.html
European Union leaders had to work
long after midnight to close the  deal  on a single bank
regulator. The agreement is pocked with compromises to smooth
over a variety of concerns, large and small. And the conflicting
visions of what else the currency bloc must do to end the debt
crisis remain.  But compromise they did. The deal, moreover, goes beyond
the stopgap measures typical of  Europe ’s crisis management since
 Greece ’s near-collapse in 2010. That’s even more reason to
celebrate.  The leaders agreed to make the European Central Bank the
hub of bank supervision by March 2014 for the 17 countries using
the euro. As many as 200 large banks -- those with at least 30
billion euros in assets, or whose assets are greater than 20
percent of their country’s gross domestic product -- will come
under the ECB’s direct supervision.  In a concession to  Germany , thousands of smaller banks will
remain under the control of national regulators. But to satisfy
 France , the ECB could step in any time, setting the important
principle that the ECB can overrule regulators who fall under
the spell of local interests. The arrangement also has the
potential to eliminate one major driver of the debt crisis --
the unhealthy relationship between governments that issue too
much debt and local banks that buy too much of it.  Cross-Border Banking  Another compromise involves the U.K. and other countries
that aren’t part of the euro area, and therefore lack a voice at
the ECB. They will be able to challenge central-bank supervisory
decisions, especially when it comes to rules on cross-border
banking.  More needs to be done, without a doubt. Leaders still must
design an EU-wide system of  deposit insurance  and a method for
dismantling failing banks. The exact means by which non-euro
states can challenge rules also needs better definition.  Still, the surprise is that the bank regulatory pact could
be achieved at all without alienating Germany and France or the
non-euro-area countries. Coming on top of a September decision
by the ECB to support the bond markets of vulnerable countries,
the deal offers a further promising sign that the single market
can mend its structural flaws.  Once the banking union’s final shape is approved, the 500
billion-euro rescue fund, the European Stability Mechanism, will
be able to directly support sick banks. The fund essentially
pools European money to clean up mistakes made at the national
level. Such aid would allow banks to be recapitalized without
adding yet more debt to the balance sheets of struggling
governments, including Ireland,  Italy  and  Spain .  More broadly, the euro area still needs a permanent system
for fiscal transfers to help vulnerable economies in the future.
Yet the fact that leaders could agree on a single banking
authority shows there is a desire and the political will to
achieve a true economic union. It may take another five years to
get there, but the pathway has been marked.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 