-- EU Plan to Delay Carbon Sales to Cut State Revenue, Poland Says
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2012-12-14T14:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/eu-plan-to-delay-carbon-sales-to-cut-state-revenue-poland-says.html
Poland  will raise the issue of the
impact on state revenue of a proposed delay in auctions of
European Union carbon permits at a meeting of European Union
environment ministers Dec. 17.  The country is concerned that the proposal by the European
Commission aimed at delaying sales of 900 million allowances to
alleviate the glut of permits and help prices will dent its
budget receipts, Environment Minister Marcin Korolec said.  “It’s the end of the year and the national budgets are
closed, so the question is how the proposal will impact the
revenue, and here our estimates differ from those of the
commission,” Korolec told a news briefing today in Warsaw.  The 27-nation EU is moving to a wider sale of permits, now
largely granted for free, to meet its climate-protection goals.
Selling the allowances will add to operating costs for power
generators and may encourage emissions reductions that can be
achieved for less than the cost of the permits. Funds from the
sales may be invested in climate-related projects.  The minister declined to give estimates of the potential
cut in the 2.85 billion zloty ($910 million) that Poland plans
to raise from selling carbon-dioxide permits next year,
according to a July draft law prepared by the ministry.  “We don’t know when, how often and to what extent the
commission plans to intervene on the market, so assessing the
impact is difficult,” he said.  The July draft envisaged that funds for the Polish
government from carbon sales will increase to 3.1 billion zloty
in 2014, 3.41 billion zloty in 2015 and 4.01 billion zloty in
2016 as more permits will be sold to factories in the cap-and-
trade program.  Next Phase  “The main difference in estimates stems from the fact that
we’re analyzing the whole next phase of the EU ETS system, while
the commission takes into account only the next few years,”
Korolec said. The third phase of the bloc’s carbon market runs
from 2013 through 2020.  According to Korolec, it is unclear how the proposal to
delay carbon sales would affect the possibility of east and
central European countries using an exemption from EU
requirement that power plants purchase all allowances from 2013.  “The political discussion on the proposal is beginning and
there’s a large number of countries that haven’t decided on
their position, including skeptical ones like Poland,” he said.  Link to Company News:{PGE PW <Equity>
Link to Company News:{TPE PW <Equity>
Link to Company News:{ENA PW <Equity>  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  