-- EU Vows Pressure on Assad’s ‘Illegitimate Regime’
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-12-14T16:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/eu-vows-more-pressure-on-assad-s-illegitimate-regime-in-syria.html
European Union leaders agreed to
look at all options to help Syria’s opposition remove the
“illegitimate regime” of President Bashar al-Assad.  “Inaction and indifference are not options,” U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  told reporters after an EU summit in
Brussels today. “We’re saying all options, all options, should
be considered in order to help the opposition and enable greater
support to the protection of civilians. Nothing is off the
table.” He refused to be drawn on possible military action.  Using their strongest language yet, EU leaders said  in a
statement  that they’re “appalled” by the conflict in Syria,
where Assad’s government has been fighting rebels since March
2011, with the number of dead approaching 50,000. French and
U.K. proposals to alter the arms embargo on Syria to allow for
possible military support to the opposition will be discussed by
EU foreign ministers on Jan. 31, the leaders agreed.  Syrian opposition forces are closing on the capital
Damascus and the U.S. and European governments have warned Assad
against using chemical weapons. North Atlantic Treaty
Organization countries are sending missiles to  Turkey  to defend
against possible Syrian attacks.  Assad’s government is increasingly vulnerable, French
President  Francois Hollande  told reporters. Cameron said the
Syrian situation is not the same as that in  Libya , where
military intervention assisted the overthrow of  Muammar Qaddafi 
last year.  ‘Extra Complications’  “Syria is different to Libya; there are extra
complications and difficulties,” the British premier said when
asked if there would be military action. “The conversation now
is about what more we should do. We can’t go on as we are.”  More than 100 countries have recognized Syria’s main
opposition group as the legitimate representative of the
country’s people, cementing its status as a government-in-
waiting. They warned Assad that using his stockpiles of chemical
weapons would invite military action.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  signed an order
allowing the deployment of two Patriot anti-missile batteries as
well as 400 U.S. personnel to Turkey, Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said today.  “We expect them to deploy in the coming weeks,” Little
told reporters traveling with Panetta to Incirlik Air Base in
Turkey. “The U.S., working closely with NATO allies, is going
to support the defense of Turkey, especially with potential
threats emanating from Syria.”  ‘Too Early’  Asked if the Patriot batteries would be used to enforce a
future no-fly zone over Syria, Little said it was “too early to
say” how they will be used.  The rebels have called for an air exclusion zone to create
safe havens in border areas. U.S. State Department spokeswoman
 Victoria Nuland  said in October that allies had discussed ways
of protecting civilians in those areas, including proposals for
such a zone.  Setting up a no-fly zone would be no easy feat. Russia and
 China  have vetoed United Nations resolutions on Syria in the
past. Russia said today it had not changed policy on Syria, even
after comments yesterday by Deputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Bogdanov that Assad was losing control.  No-fly zones have been imposed without a UN mandate based
on the doctrines of “implicit authorization” and
“humanitarian intervention,” though neither doctrine has ever
gained widespread acceptance in international law, according to
Stefan Talmon, a professor at Oxford University.  The Patriot batteries, capable of shooting down enemy
missiles, will remain in Turkey for an unspecified period of
time and will be operated by the U.S. personnel, Little said. He
declined to specify where they’ll be located.  Turkey and  Syria  had close ties until protests against
Assad began. Tensions between the two governments have grown
since the downing of a Turkish jet in June, the deaths of five
Turks killed by a mortar round from Syria in October and the use
by rebels of Turkish bases.  The German parliament also voted today to deploy Patriot
batteries with as many as 400 soldiers to Turkey. The
Netherlands is also sending two batteries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Incirlik, Turkey, at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  