-- European Insurer Outlook Negative on Low Rates, Regulator Says
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-12-14T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/european-insurer-outlook-negative-on-low-rates-regulator-says.html
European insurers  and pension funds
could run into difficulties because of low  interest rates  and
fragile financial markets, the industry’s top regulator said.  “Weak economic prospects, grown economic imbalances and
the likelihood of a prolonged low interest-rate environment
create a significantly negative medium term outlook for the
financial soundness of the European insurance and occupational
pensions sectors,” the Frankfurt-based European Insurance and
Occupational Pensions Authority said in a report today.  European insurers including  Allianz SE (ALV) , the region’s
largest,  Axa SA (CS) ,  Prudential Plc (PRU)  and  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) 
are under pressure as low interest rates around the world weigh
on investment returns. Life insurers, which are especially
vulnerable to swings in investment income, traditionally offer
products with minimum return guarantees that exceed government
bond yields of nations with a top  credit rating  such as  Germany .  The  European Central Bank  on Dec. 6 cut its economic
forecast for next year and left the  benchmark interest rate  at a
record low of 0.75 percent. Weakness in economic activity will
persist into next year, President  Mario Draghi  said, adding that
risks to the outlook remain on the downside.  “Despite recent positive developments in financial market
prices, action by the ECB and coordinated political initiatives,
the risks to financial stability remain high,” Eiopa said.  The regulator’s analysis of pension fund data show “a
worrying decrease” in funding positions, “especially for
larger defined benefit systems such as those in the U.K. and the
Netherlands,” it said, adding that the low yield environment is
“a key driver.”  “Taking a longer-term, forward-looking perspective,
improved longevity of pensioners will also weigh negatively on
funding levels in the future,” Eiopa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  