-- Euro-Area Services, Manufacturing Fall Less Than Forecast
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-12-14T10:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/euro-area-services-manufacturing-contract-less-than-forecast.html
Euro-area  services and manufacturing
output  contracted at a slower pace than economists forecast in
December as European leaders declared progress on the latest
plan to combat the debt crisis, now entering its fourth year.  A composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers
in both industries rose to 47.3 from 46.5 in November, London-
based  Markit Economics  said today. Economists had forecast a
November reading of 46.9, according to the median of 16
estimates a Bloomberg News survey. A reading below 50 indicates
contraction. A separate report showed European car sales fell 10
percent in November, bringing registrations so far this year to
a 19-year low.  European finance ministers yesterday declared a two-front
victory over the fiscal turmoil, assuring a lifeline to  Greece 
and laying the groundwork for a single bank supervisor.
Government leaders early this morning pledged to seek a joint
strategy for handling failing lenders as the next step toward
banking union. The European Central Bank last week left its
benchmark rate unchanged as risks to the economy led policy
makers to debate a reduction.  “The rate of contraction in output at the euro-zone level
is diminishing,” said  Ken Wattret , chief euro region economist
at BNP Paribas SA in London. “The marked improvement in
financial-market conditions and now some improvement in economic
conditions mean the likelihood of the European Central Bank
cutting rates again have diminished.”  Services Index  The euro was little changed against the dollar, trading at
$1.3078 at 10:30 a.m. in London, up less than 0.1 percent on the
day after trading as high as $1.3119 earlier.  The euro-area services index increased to 47.8 in December
from 46.7 in November, Markit said. The manufacturing gauge rose
to 46.3 from 46.2.  A separate report showed euro-area inflation slowed in
November as energy-price growth eased. The annual inflation rate
in the 17-nation currency bloc fell to 2.2 percent, in line with
an initial estimate on Nov. 30, from 2.5 percent in October.  In Asia, a report on  China  showed manufacturing there may
expand at a faster pace this month. The December preliminary
reading for a  purchasing managers’ index  by HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit was 50.9, up from 50.5 in November, when the
indicator moved above 50 for the first time in 13 months.  Large Manufacturers  There was a more-pessimistic picture for manufacturing in
 Japan , where the  quarterly Tankan index  for large manufacturers
fell to minus 12 in December from minus 3 in September. That’s
the fifth straight negative reading and the lowest since March
2010. The slide in sentiment gives the central bank an extra
reason to ease policy on Dec. 20 after the Federal Reserve moved
this week.  Elsewhere, data to be published in the U.S. may show
industrial production in the world’s largest economy expanded
0.3 percent in November from the previous month, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of 81 economists. Another report may show
consumer prices fell 0.2 percent last month from October,
according to a separate poll.  In  Europe , while financial-market tensions stemming from
the debt turmoil have abated, economies are still faltering. The
ECB last week forecast the euro-area economy will shrink 0.5
percent this year and 0.3 percent in 2013. The sovereign-debt
crisis has pushed at least six of the 17 euro nations into
recession and is curbing growth in its largest economies. The
ECB held its key rate at 0.75 percent last week.  ‘Bottomed Out’  Economists’ view for the euro area has also worsened. The
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey is for a
contraction of 0.1 percent next year. In November, they had
projected 0.1 percent growth.  “The economy seems to have bottomed out and the pace of
decline of activity has moderated,” Annalisa Piazza, an analyst
at Newedge Strategy in  London , said in an e-mailed statement.
“The composite index has remained in contraction territory for
11 straight months, a sign that the EMU economy is far from a
sound and sustainable recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  