-- European Stocks Are Little Changed; Alcatel Shares Climb
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-12-14T16:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/european-stocks-are-little-changed-alcatel-shares-climb.html
European stocks  closed little
changed as investors watched U.S. lawmakers debate a new budget
agreement to avoid automatic tax increases and spending cuts in
the world’s largest economy.  A gauge of the region’s oil and gas companies declined,
with  Total SA (FP)  losing 0.7 percent. Alcatel-Lucent SA surged 7
percent after saying it reached a $2.1 billion financing deal
with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   Akzo
Nobel NV (AKZA)  jumped 7.1 percent after agreeing to sell its North
American decorative-paints business to PPG Industries Inc.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped less than 0.1 percent to
279.4 in  London . The measure has rallied 19 percent since this
year’s low on June 4 as the European Central Bank and the
Federal Reserve expanded asset purchases.  “Market sentiment is likely to be shaped entirely by the
US fiscal cliff negotiations,” said Nicholas Spiro, managing
director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in London. “With just 17
days to go before the automatic spending cuts and tax increases
kick in, a deal still appears elusive, making it likely that the
last two full trading weeks of 2012 will be nail-biting ones.”  The Stoxx 600 yesterday fell for the first time this month
as Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the central bank doesn’t
have the tools to offset the economic impact of automatic
deficit-reduction measures called the fiscal cliff that will
come into effect next year if Congress fails to reach a deal.  Bipartisan Talks  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker John Boehner
met yesterday to discuss averting more than $600 billion of
spending cuts and tax increases before a year-end deadline, with
no public announcement of progress.  Obama and congressional Democrats have said they won’t
discuss spending cuts unless Republicans agree to higher tax
rates for top earners. Republicans are insisting on reductions
to entitlement programs such as Medicare.  Industrial production in the world’s largest economy
increased 1.1 percent in November, after a revised 0.7 percent
drop the previous month, the Federal Reserve said today. That
beat the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey that called for a
0.3 percent gain.  In  China , a report showed manufacturing may expand at a
faster pace this month. The December preliminary reading was
50.9 for a purchasing managers’ index released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. That compares with the 50.8
median projection in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Shanghai Composite Index jumped the most since October
2009 also on speculation that state-backed institutions were
buying shares.  Euro-Area Manufacturing  In the euro area, a preliminary report showed that a
measure of manufacturing climbed to 46.3 in December, up from
46.2 in the previous month. A composite index that also includes
services jumped to 47.3 this month, the highest since March,
from 46.5 in November. A reading below 50 means contraction.  A gauge of oil and gas companies fell for a second day,
with Total losing 0.7 percent to 39.46 euros.  Fiat SpA, which owns 58.5 percent in Chrysler Group LLC,
dropped 1.9 percent to 3.63 euros. Il Messaggero reported that
Chief Financial Officer Richard Palmer held meetings with banks
on a possible capital increase to fund its acquisition of the
remaining 41.5 percent of Chrysler.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  slid 2.1 percent to 32.65 euros, while
 Banco de Sabadell SA (SAB)  fell 2.9 percent to 2.17 euros. Credit
Suisse fell 1 percent to 22.65 francs.  Alcatel, Akzo  Alcatel-Lucent rallied 7 percent to 91.3 euro cents after
saying it will get a $2.1 billion multiyear financing commitment
from Goldman Sachs and Credit Suisse. The deal “provides
stabilization and enhances Alcatel-Lucent’s liquidity profile,”
the company said.  Akzo Nobel advanced 7.1 percent to 48.70 euros, the biggest
jump since September 2011, after PPG Industries agreed to buy
its North American decorative-paints business for $1.05 billion.  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG (PSM)  rallied 1.8 percent to 23.66 euros
after Discovery Communications Inc. agreed to buy the German
broadcaster’s northern European assets.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the biggest maker of Swiss watches, jumped
3.8 percent to 464.80 Swiss francs, the highest price since at
least July 1993, after Morgan Stanley raised the stock to
overweight from underweight, meaning investors should buy the
stock.  Centamin Plc (CEY) , which plunged 47 percent yesterday after a
fuel dispute halted production at its gold mine in  Egypt , surged
25 percent to 34.64 pence today. The company said Chevron,
Centamin’s fuel supplier, had been notified by Egyptian General
Petroleum Corp. that fuel supply may be resumed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  