-- Ex-IndyMac CEO Perry Reaches $12 Million FDIC Settlement
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-12-15T00:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/ex-indymac-ceo-perry-reaches-12-million-fdic-settlement.html
Michael Perry, the former chief
executive officer of IndyMac Bancorp Inc., agreed to pay $1
million to settle a lawsuit by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. in a deal that includes $11 million from insurers.  Perry denied liability as part of the settlement, his
lawyer D. Jean Veta said today in an e-mailed statement. The
FDIC acknowledged it isn’t claiming Perry caused the bank to
fail or that he caused a loss to the FDIC’s insurance fund, she
said. The settlement agreement between Perry and the FDIC was
filed today in federal court in  Los Angeles .  “The FDIC’s lawsuit did not include these more serious
allegations because they knew they were patently false,” Veta
said.  The FDIC sued Perry in 2011, alleging that he acted
negligently when he allowed IndyMac, once the second-largest
U.S. independent mortgage lender, to generate and buy $10
billion in risky loans to be sold in the secondary market in
2007. The market at that time had become unstable and illiquid
and IndyMac wasn’t able to sell the loans, which caused the bank
$600 million in losses, the FDIC said.  IndyMac was seized by regulators in July 2008 after a run
by depositors left the Pasadena, California-based company short
of cash.  Homebuilder Loans  The announcement of the settlement comes a week after a
federal jury in Los Angeles found three former IndyMac
executives liable for $169 million in damages to the FDIC. The
jury agreed the three men continued to make loans to
homebuilders that weren’t creditworthy as the real estate market
was about to collapse.  “The FDIC as receiver of IndyMac has settled with Michael
Perry in an agreement that will bar him from banking and that
recovers $1 million in personal assets and up to $11 million of
insurance policy money,” FDIC spokesman  David Barr  said in an
e-mailed statement.  The case is Federal Deposit Insurance Crop. v. Perry,
11-05561, U.S. District Court, Central District of  California 
(Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 