-- Mexico Peso Drops as U.S. Budget Wrangling Damps Export Outlook
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-12-14T00:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/mexico-peso-drops-as-u-s-budget-wrangling-damps-export-outlook.html
Mexico ’s peso weakened the most in
five weeks as a standoff in U.S. budget negotiations threatened
the economic outlook for the Latin American country’s biggest
trading partner.  The peso weakened 0.5 percent, its biggest daily decline
since Nov. 8, to 12.8025 per  U.S. dollar  today, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Its rally this year of 8.9 percent
is still the biggest gain among the greenback’s 16 most-traded
counterparts.  Mexico’s peso weakened along with most emerging-market
currencies today as speculation mounted that U.S. House Speaker
 John Boehner  and President  Barack Obama  weren’t making progress
on a spending plan for the world’s biggest economy. The two
leaders are in talks to forge a compromise to avoid more than
$600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts that will start
taking effect in January unless Congress averts them. Mexico
sends about 80 percent of its exports to the U.S.  “Until we get some resolution out of Washington we can
expect to see continued intraday volatility with a bias to more
profit taken on negative headlines,” Alejandro Silva, who helps
oversee about $800 million of emerging-market assets, including
the peso, at Silva Capital Management in  Chicago , said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “Positioning in the peso is
crowded.”  Bullish bets on the peso last week outnumbered those for a
decline by the most since October, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission. The number of wagers by  hedge funds 
and other large speculators for a gain in the peso outnumbered
those for a decrease in the futures market by 118,962.  Yields on Mexico’s peso bonds due in 2024 were little
changed at 5.48 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The price fell 0.06 centavo to 139.66 centavos per
peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  