-- Facebook Falls as Lockup Expiration Boosts Share Supply
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-12-15T00:05:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/facebook-falls-after-lockup-expiration-boosts-available-shares.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  fell the most in
almost three months after a lockup expiration boosted the number
of tradeable shares and a recent run-up in the stock price gave
investors pause about how much higher it might climb.  The stock tumbled 5.1 percent to $26.81 at the close in  New
York , the biggest drop since Sept. 24. Shares in the operator of
the world’s largest social-networking service have declined 29
percent since selling at $38 apiece in an initial public
offering in May.  Facebook came under pressure as about 156 million more
shares became available for trading today, adding to the more
than 1.5 billion already freed up for sale by insiders.
Investors may have seen a good time to sell since the stock has
risen rapidly amid rising optimism about the company’s growth
prospects, said  Scott Kessler , an analyst at S&P Capital IQ.  “A lot of the good news seems to be priced into the
shares,” Kessler said. “What I think people are thinking about
is, ‘What else can happen?’ whether it’s driven by specifically
by Facebook, or others, to drive the stock higher.”  Menlo Park , California-based Facebook reported in October
that sales rose 32 percent to $1.26 billion during the third
quarter. That compares with the average estimate of $1.23
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That also
matched the growth rate of the second quarter, snapping a streak
of slowing sales increases. The results were followed by a 33
percent climb in the share price from the beginning of November
through yesterday.  Supply Concern  Facebook is also benefiting from efforts to sell
advertising on mobile devices, where users are increasingly
accessing the service. Ads delivered to people on mobile devices
generated about $150 million during the quarter, or 14 percent
of all advertising revenue.  Ashley Zandy, a spokeswoman for Facebook, declined to
comment on the stock decline.  The bans on sales are put in place to prevent shares from
flooding the market immediately after an IPO. The biggest lockup
expiration to date was on Nov. 14, when restrictions lifted on
804 million shares. Smaller batches of stock became tradeable in
August and October, and the next lockup lifts in May, according
to a regulatory filing.  In addition to the new swath of shares freed up today, the
stock sales today could be tied to rising worries about whether
the  U.S. Congress  and President  Barack Obama  can come to an
agreement before automatic tax increases take effect in January
-- and avoid the so-called “fiscal cliff,” according to
Michael Pachter, an analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc.  “It appears like a decent place to take profit, and I
think there’s a lot concern about the fiscal cliff and tax rates
going up,” he said.  -- Editors: Reed Stevenson, Stephen West  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  