-- Falcons’ 70% Winning Rate Can’t Compete With Giants’ Super Bowls
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-12-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/falcons-70-winning-rate-can-t-compete-with-giants-super-bowls.html
The  Atlanta Falcons  are tied for the
best record in the  National Football League  and have won 70
percent of their games during the past five seasons. What they
lack is the postseason resume of tomorrow’s opponent, the  New
York Giants , who have two championships in that span.  The Falcons (11-2), who are a perfect 6-0 at the Georgia
Dome this season, host the Giants (8-5) in a rematch of last
season’s first-round playoff game won by New York 24-2 on its
way to another Super Bowl triumph.  While both teams are led by Pro Bowl quarterbacks and rely
on strong passing games, the Giants -- who have won 61 percent
of their regular-season games the past five years -- have had
the playoff success that has eluded Atlanta, which hasn’t had a
postseason win since Jan. 15, 2005.  “The difference is, they’ve won two of them,” Falcons
running back  Michael Turner , 30, said of New York’s
championships following the 2007 and 2011 seasons. “That’s
where we’re trying to get to. It’s time for us to take it to the
next level.”  Winning a playoff game would be a good starting place for
the Falcons, who already have clinched the  National Football
Conference ’s South division title.  Over the same five-year span in which the Giants have held
two championship parades, the Falcons have a 54-23 regular-
season record and no postseason victories. Atlanta players said
a win this weekend may boost the team’s national profile.  “It’s an opportunity for us to make a statement and let
people know that we’re the real deal as a team,” safety Thomas Decoud said in an interview. “You still have that feeling in
the back of your mind.”  After beginning the season with eight straight victories,
the Falcons have lost two of their last five games. Atlanta fell
30-20 last weekend to the  Carolina Panthers , who had won only
three games coming into their meeting in Charlotte.  Postseason Futility  The Falcons haven’t won a playoff game since defeating the
 St. Louis Rams  in the first round after the 2004 season. They
have been knocked out in the first round the past two seasons,
including a 48-21 loss to the eventual Super Bowl champion  Green
Bay Packers  in 2010.  Atlanta has three more wins this season than the Giants,
including victories against the three other teams in New York’s
NFC East division. They’re listed as a 1 1/2-point favorite this
week, according to the Las Vegas Hotel & Casino.  Giants quarterback Eli Manning said the Falcons “have my
respect.”  Bradshaw Out  “They’re a very talented team and their record shows
that,” Manning said this week on a media conference call. “We
have to play at our highest level to give ourselves a chance to
win.”  The Giants will be missing leading rusher  Ahmad Bradshaw 
for the game. Bradshaw was ruled out of the game yesterday
because of knee and foot injuries.  Bradshaw, 26, has 196 carries for 869 yards and five
touchdowns this season, more than half the team’s total of
carries (339) and yards rushing (1,513) in 2012. He also has 21
receptions for 196 yards.  In 2007, the Falcons were reeling from the departure of
 Michael Vick , who was jailed after being convicted in a
dogfighting case in Virginia. The day after the Pro Bowl
quarterback was sentenced to 23 months in prison, Bobby Petrino
quit as the team’s coach 13 games into the season. The Falcons
were 3-10 and finished 4-12, missing the playoffs for the third
straight season.  Mike Smith , 53, was hired as coach and said he viewed
taking over a losing team as an opportunity.  Moving Forward  “I didn’t really concern myself with what had happened in
the past and that approach has worked very well,” Smith said in
an interview at the team’s training facility. “We’ve been able
to put that behind us and move forward.”  The Falcons took  Matt Ryan  out of  Boston College  with the
third pick in the 2008  NFL draft . He helped guide Atlanta to a
12-4 record in his first season, earning Rookie of the Year
honors.  Smith, a former defensive coordinator for the  Jacksonville
Jaguars , took the Atlanta coaching job three months before Ryan
was drafted. He also enjoyed rookie success and was chosen the
league’s coach of the year in 2008.  The individual awards for Ryan and Smith didn’t prevent the
Falcons from losing to the  Arizona  Cardinals in the first round
of the playoffs that year. The same story has played out each of
the past two seasons, with first-round playoff losses following
successful regular seasons.  Playoff Scenarios  Smith said he is focused on the Giants and not ending the
team’s playoff failures. A win over New York, combined with a
loss or tie by Green Bay, would give the Falcons a first-round
bye. If San Francisco also loses, the Falcons would clinch home-
field advantage throughout the playoffs. Atlanta and the  Houston
Texans , in the American Football Conference, are 11-2.  The Giants, coming off a 52-27 home defeat of the  New
Orleans Saints , hold a one-game lead in the NFC East.  “It’s a big game for both teams because of the positioning
that’s going to take place over the next three weeks,” Smith
said. “There’s always something that’s to be determined.”  The Giants have dropped three of their past five games,
including a 17-16 divisional loss to the  Washington Redskins  two
weeks ago. After visiting Atlanta, the Giants have games
remaining against Baltimore and Philadelphia.  “We’ve still got a chance to win our division and make it
into the playoffs again,” Manning said. “That’s what we’re
rooting for.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  