-- Fed Targets Foreign Banks With Tougher U.S. Capital Rules
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-12-14T23:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/fed-targets-foreign-banks-with-stricter-capital-rules.html
The  Federal Reserve  moved to subject
two dozen foreign banks with at least $50 billion of global
assets to stricter U.S. capital rules as it attempts to lower
risks to the financial system.  The Fed  proposed  that most of the banks also be forced to
comply with more-stringent liquidity rules and pass stress tests
analyzing how they would fare in a severe economic downturn. The
board voted yesterday to seek public comment on the plan for 90
days. It would take effect in July 2015.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , based in  Frankfurt , and London-based
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  would be among the institutions that would have to
keep more easy-to-sell assets in the U.S. and face restrictions
on distributing capital to parent companies. The Fed provided
$538 billion of emergency loans to the U.S. units of European
banks during the financial crisis, almost as much as it did to
domestic firms. That increased political pressure on lawmakers
and regulators to tighten rules for all lenders.  “This is a huge paradigm shift in U.S. regulation of
foreign banks operating here,” said Kim Olson, a principal at
 Deloitte & Touche LLP  in  New York  and a former bank supervisor.
“This means captive capital and liquidity in the local unit
that U.S. regulators can go after during failure.”  Lenders with more than $50 billion of global assets and
more than $10 billion in the U.S. will be required to house
their U.S. businesses, including securities trading, within
regulated holding companies. The $10 billion threshold excludes
the domestic assets that are connected to a U.S. branch of a
bank. About 25 institutions would fall under this requirement,
Fed staff said.  Holding Companies  Those so-called intermediate holding companies would have
to abide by capital rules that already apply to their U.S.
counterparts. The new treatment may force foreign banks to
inject capital into their U.S. units and limit their ability to
move funds across borders.  The proposal is “overly broad and could prompt foreign
banks to pull back from the U.S. market, hurting our economy and
financial markets,” Sally Miller, chief executive officer of
the Institute of International Bankers, said in a statement. It
would be more appropriate “to concentrate on the very small
number of foreign banks whose U.S. operations could actually be
considered to present risks to U.S. financial stability.”  Foreign companies currently can choose whether to create
U.S. bank holding companies. Those units were exempt from
capital standards as long as their parent firms were well-
capitalized. The 2010 Dodd-Frank financial overhaul removed that
exemption. Non-U.S. lenders including Deutsche Bank and Barclays
then altered their legal structures to remain outside the scope
of local capital rules.  ‘Too Committed’  The foreign banks with assets exceeding $50 billion in the
U.S., 23 of the roughly 25 companies, would face the toughest
standards under the Fed’s proposal. They would have to keep in
their U.S. units enough cash, Treasuries or other easy-to-sell
assets to meet liabilities coming due in 30 days. Those units
would face Fed stress tests annually like their U.S. peers and
could be prevented from paying dividends to their parent company
if they fail the test.  “Will foreign banks retreat from the  United States ?”
asked Charles Horn, a Washington-based attorney at  Morrison &
Foerster LLP  who advises financial companies on regulations and
transactions. “I suspect that the large foreign banks are too
committed to the United States to do that. Others that may be
more on the margins may take a harder look at these rules and do
an appropriate cost-benefit analysis.”  Parent Borrowing  Switzerland , whose banking system is five times the size of
the nation’s economy, proposed in 2010 to give priority to the
domestic units of its two largest lenders if they fail,
indicating that overseas businesses might be left on their own.  In the U.K., where banks’ assets are also five times the
nation’s gross domestic product, regulators have said they plan
to require lenders based in Britain to insulate domestic
consumer-banking businesses from investment-banking and foreign
operations.  Most of the largest foreign institutions have small
commercial-banking units in the U.S., where their operations are
largely centered on  securities trading .  Through the 1990s, most foreign banks borrowed from their
parent companies to lend in the U.S. and had excess cash
reserves to meet local requirements. The trend reversed early
last decade, when foreign firms started borrowing in the U.S. to
lend overseas. Their trading in the U.S. surged to 50 percent of
assets in 2011 from 13 percent in 1995, Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said last month.  Credit Exposures  “The financial crisis exposed flaws in the pre-crisis
structure for supervising and regulating both large U.S. banking
organizations and the U.S. operations of large foreign banking
organizations,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a
statement. The proposal is a step toward “strengthening our
regulatory framework to address the risks that large,
interconnected financial institutions pose to U.S. financial
stability.”  When Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008,
European creditors alleged that $8 billion of cash had been
transferred to the firm’s New York headquarters days before the
bankruptcy. When Iceland’s banks failed that same year, the
government agreed to pay local customers while leaving British
and Dutch depositors trying to recoup more than $5 billion.  Banks Balked  To reduce links between banks, the Fed’s plan would also
set limits on credit exposures between foreign financial
institutions similar to those already proposed on U.S. lenders.
U.S. intermediate holding companies of foreign banks wouldn’t be
allowed to have aggregate net credit exposure to another company
that exceeds 25 percent of the holding company’s regulatory
capital. The caps would be even lower on credit exposures
between companies with more than $500 billion in assets.  U.S. banks, including Goldman Sachs Group Inc., balked
earlier this year at a Fed proposal that would limit financial
firms with at least $500 billion in assets from having credit
risk to any other exceeding 10 percent of regulatory capital
plus excess loan-loss reserves. The Fed has gone back to study
that proposal and said it won’t set a specific limit on the
credit exposures of the largest foreign banks until it decides
how to treat domestic bank holding companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yalman Onaran in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  