-- Fed’s Lacker Says Thresholds Not Useful as Policy Signal
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-12-14T23:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/fed-s-lacker-says-thresholds-not-useful-as-policy-signal.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President Jeffrey Lacker said he opposed linking monetary policy
to the unemployment rate because no single indicator can provide
a “complete picture” of the labor market.  “I do not believe that tying the federal funds rate to a
specific numerical threshold for unemployment is an appropriate
and balanced approach to the FOMC’s price stability and maximum
employment mandates,” Lacker said in a statement today,
referring to the Federal Open Market Committee. “I would prefer
to describe in qualitative terms the economic conditions under
which our monetary policy stance is likely to change.”  Lacker was the only policy maker to dissent against the
FOMC’s Dec. 12 decision to keep the main interest rate near zero
as long as the  jobless rate  remains above 6.5 percent and the
outlook for inflation stays at no more than 2.5 percent one or
two years in the future.  The central bank also said this week it will keep buying
$40 billion in mortgage bonds each month, and will purchase $45
billion in longer-term Treasuries every month after its
Operation Twist Program expires at the end of December.  Lacker said he opposed both moves.  “With economic activity growing at a modest pace and
inflation fluctuating close to 2 percent -- the Committee’s
inflation goal -- further monetary stimulus runs the risk of
raising inflation and destabilizing inflation expectations,”
Lacker said.  The Fed takes on an “inappropriate role” by purchasing
mortgage-backed securities and “tilting the flow of credit to
one particular economic sector,” he said. Also, “monetary
policy has only a limited ability to reduce unemployment,”
Lacker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  