-- Fed Begins Review of Liquidity Sources at Largest U.S. Banks
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-12-14T00:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/fed-begins-review-of-liquidity-sources-at-largest-u-s-banks.html
The  Federal Reserve  is examining
liquidity at some of the largest U.S. banks as part of a new
regime of stronger oversight of systemic risk, according to a
person familiar with the review.  Fed supervisors are analyzing the mix of short- and long-
term liabilities banks use to fund their holdings of loans and
securities, the person said. The reviews also cover sources of
banks’ funding and their plans for backup cash in the event of a
shock.  The liquidity tests are part of the Fed’s effort to
strengthen the financial system and prevent a repeat of the
2008-2009 crisis that brought down Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
and resulted in taxpayer-funded bailouts of firms including
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Bank of America Corp.  The review, which was reported earlier by the Financial
Times, involves fewer banks than the 19 undergoing separate
stress tests of capital, the person said. In those tests, the
Fed is seeking to determine how capital of the largest banks
would hold up under various economic scenarios, including a 6.1
percent economic contraction and a jobless rate of 12.1 percent.  Fed spokeswoman  Barbara Hagenbaugh  declined to comment on
the number of banks under review in the liquidity exam.  The Fed’s heightened interest in liquidity stems from the
view of officials such as  Daniel Tarullo , the governor in charge
of supervision, that short-term non-deposit funding presents
potential risks to the financial system. Tarullo has been
persuaded in part by Yale School of Management Professor Gary Gorton’s work on the 2008-2009 crisis, which described modern-
day bank runs occurring in markets for commercial paper and
 repurchase agreements .  Prime Funds  Fed officials were served a reminder of that risk in 2010.
U.S. prime money-market funds by the end of March that year had
about $493 billion of certificates of deposit, commercial paper
and asset-backed commercial paper from euro-region financial
firms, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. research estimate.  As financial strains in  Europe  worsened, money funds shrank
exposure at a pace of $54 billion a month for a total of $162
billion over April, May and June, according to JPMorgan
estimates. That caused a squeeze in dollar funding markets which
prompted Fed officials to re-open dollar swap lines with foreign
central banks in May of that year.  At a meeting of the  New York  Fed’s Financial Advisory
Roundtable on June 8 of this year,  Darrell Duffie , a Stanford
University finance professor, gave a presentation on liquidity
losses at financial institutions during crises.  “Members highlighted the importance of stress testing
banks’ liquidity and access to funding during adverse periods,”
minutes from the meeting said.  The liquidity tests are intended to guide bank supervisors
and the results won’t be made public, the Financial Times said.
If a bank’s liquidity is called into question, examiners could
use the results to push them to adjust their funding or increase
their supply of easy-to-sell assets, it reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  