-- Fiat Rejects Report of Pending Chrysler Capital Increase
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2012-12-14T13:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/fiat-drops-on-press-report-of-capital-increase-milan-mover.html
Fiat SpA (F)  denied an Italian newspaper
report that it’s planning a capital increase to raise money to
boost its holding in Chrysler Group LLC.  “There is no specific project” to sell new shares, and
the company “believes that there is no need for a capital
increase,” Fiat said today in a statement, responding to a
report by daily  Il Messaggero . The shares, which had fallen as
much as 6.4 percent, pared losses after the denial.  Talks with banks on financing for the purchase of the
remaining 41.5 percent of Chrysler that Fiat doesn’t already own
are in their early stages and a decision isn’t imminent, said
four people familiar with the matter. Banks are proposing a
range of options to Fiat, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the plans are private.  Fiat has been looking to buy the Chrysler stake held by the
United Auto Workers’ retiree health-care trust to facilitate
access to the U.S. automaker’s cash and push integration, as it
loses money in  Europe . The stake may cost about 3 billion euros
($3.9 billion), according to an estimate from Bernstein Research
analyst  Max Warburton .  “We believe that the scenario of a capital increase cannot
be ruled out,” Banca Akros analyst Gabriele Gambarova said in a
note today. He cut his rating on the stock to hold from
accumulate.  Fiat shares  dropped  as much as 24 cents to 3.46 euros in
Milan and were down 10 cents as of 2:34 p.m. in Milan. The stock
has plunged 26 percent over the past three months, making it the
worst performer on the  Stoxx 600 Autos and Parts Index  and
valuing the Turin-based company at 4.5 billion euros.  Executives working for Chief Financial Officer  Richard Palmer  held meetings with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan
Stanley,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Bank of America Merrill Lynch on a
possible capital increase of 1 billion euros to 2 billion euros
to be carried out next year, Il Messaggero reported today
without saying where it got the information.  Sergio Marchionne , who is chief executive officer of both
Fiat and Chrysler, said in October that all options are “on the
table” to raise capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  