-- Fisher Sees Fed Trapped in ‘Hotel California’ Position
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-12-14T15:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/fisher-sees-fed-trapped-in-hotel-california-position.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said the central bank may never be able
to exit its unprecedented bond-buying program and that the
efficacy of the stimulus measure is “declining over time.”  “Since we’re going to have an engorged balance sheet we
may never be able to leave this position,” the reserve bank
chief said in a CNBC interview today. “We were at risk of what
I call a ‘Hotel  California ’ monetary policy, going back to the
Eagles song which is, you can check out any time you want but
you can never leave.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues said Dec.
12 they will boost their main stimulus tool by adding $45
billion of monthly Treasury purchases to an existing program to
buy $40 billion in mortgage debt a month. That decision puts the
Fed’s  $2.92 trillion  balance sheet on track to reach almost $4
trillion by the end of next year if purchases continue.  “Their efficacy is declining over time,” Fisher said.
“With each new announcement there’s less of a reaction.”  Fisher, who participates in the Federal Open Market
Committee meetings and doesn’t vote this year, said he opposed
the Fed’s expansion of its third round of bond purchases, known
as quantitative easing, because policy makers have already
ensured that the financial system has adequate funding.  “I thought we had done enough already,” Fisher said.
“Businesses are awash in liquidity.”  The  U.S. economy  is the strongest in the world right now,
Fisher said. It’s being hurt because of uncertainty surrounding
Congress and President  Barack Obama ’s failure to agree on a
budget plan that avoids a fiscal contraction, Fisher said.  ‘The Thoroughbred’  “We’re the thoroughbred of the global economy,” Fisher
said. “Our businesses are better equipped now to compete in the
world than ever before. They’ve driven down their costs. They’re
hyper-efficient. They’re hyper-productive.”  The world’s largest economy is poised to reach its full
potential if lawmakers can remove uncertainty for businesses,
investors and consumers, he said. Fed policy makers are “the
only people who get things done” and have already taken all the
action they can to support the recovery, he said.  “The obstacle is nobody knows what the rules are so they
can’t plan their investment,” Fisher said of the so-called
fiscal cliff of more than $600 billion in tax increases and
federal spending cuts scheduled to take effect in January unless
lawmakers agree on a plan. “We’re beginning to see now this
fiscal imbroglio as really impacting consumer behavior.”  6.5% Unemployment  The Fed also said Dec. 12 that for the first time it will
link its interest-rate outlook to economic thresholds, saying
rates will stay low “at least as long” as the jobless rate
remains above 6.5 percent and if it projects inflation of no
more than 2.5 percent one or two years in the future. Officials
don’t see the jobless rate falling near that goal until 2015.  Fisher said policy makers discussed whether the jobless
rate may decline to 6.5 percent because more Americans are
giving up hope of finding a job and instead are deciding to
leave the  labor force , not because hiring picked up.  “We actually talked a great deal about that,” Fisher said
of the Fed’s Dec. 11-12 gathering. “All of us are concerned
about it. And that’s why if you look at the wording of the
statement there’s a lot of conditionality around that.”  The Labor Department’s Dec. 7 report showed that the
 unemployment rate  fell to  7.7 percent  last month as the share of
working-age people in the labor force decreased. The so-called
 participation rate  fell to 63.6 percent from 63.8 percent in the
prior month. The rate declined to 63.5 percent in August.  Fisher, 63, will be a voting member of the policy-making
FOMC in 2014. He dissented last year twice against moves to push
down long-term rates and to keep the benchmark U.S. interest
rate near zero until at least mid-2013. He voted five times in
2008 in favor of tighter policy.  The next FOMC gathering is scheduled for Jan. 29-30 in
 Washington .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Costelloe in Washington at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  