-- Fixing U.S. Air Traffic Dysfunction Seen in Example
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-12-14T14:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/fixing-u-s-air-traffic-dysfunction-seen-in-example.html
Twenty years ago,  Canada ’s air-
traffic system used outdated equipment and was choking with
flight delays. Since then, the organization set up to control
the nation’s airspace shuttered radar rooms and towers, cut the
workforce and created a market for its technology.  The turnaround was triggered by the government’s decision
in 1996 to turn the agency into a nonprofit corporation, backed
by flight fees and insulated from political interference,
according to John Crichton, president and chief executive
officer of NAV CANADA.  “We’re operating today with 25 percent fewer people, yet
the traffic has increased by 50 percent,” Crichton said in an
interview. “Our technology is being used in the four corners of
the Earth.”  The modernization of NAV CANADA provides lessons for the
 Federal Aviation Administration  and should kick-start a debate
about the future management of the U.S. air-traffic system,
analysts and former U.S. agency officials say.  Members of the  U.S. Congress  have blocked multiple attempts
by the FAA to shut or merge underutilized air-control towers and
radar rooms, costing taxpayers millions of dollars, according to
logs of correspondence obtained by  Bloomberg News  through the
Freedom of Information Act. Political interference also
undermines the introduction of the $42-billion technology
upgrade known as NextGen, which the agency plans to introduce
over the next two decades, former FAA officials say.  Congressional Pressure  In Canada,  Australia  and the U.K., control over domestic
air space has been handed over to nonprofit, government-owned or
private corporations, a concept that has been adopted by at
least 35 other nations since 1987, according to a U.S.
Government Accountability Office  report .  “Only when it sinks in that other countries are doing
better than we are will this happen,” said Langhorne Bond, who
served as FAA administrator under President  Jimmy Carter .  The concept of privatizing all or part of the FAA,
considered during the administrations of Bill Clinton and  George W. Bush , was rejected on both occasions by lawmakers. The air-
traffic controllers union opposes any such move, citing safety
concerns. Even proponents say those objections make the
privatization of the FAA difficult to get through Congress.  The challenges the FAA will confront as it modernizes
suggest that a new management model is needed, said Clinton
Oster, a retired Indiana University professor and co-author of a
book comparing air-traffic systems around the world.  Union Opposition  “Why couldn’t it work here?” Oster said. “You come up
short of reasons other than that people have dug their heels in
the sand.”  Oster found that both NAV CANADA and NATS Ltd., a firm
established in 1998 to run the U.K.’s air traffic, became more
efficient by imposing fiscal discipline and gaining independence
from political meddling.  The  National Air Traffic Controllers Association , a union
representing more than 15,000 controllers along with engineers
and other FAA employees, and the  Professional Aviation Safety
Specialists , which includes FAA technicians, reject the notion
of private control.  They are allied with aviation groups representing pilots
and business aviation interests, such as the Washington-based
National Business Aviation Association and  Aircraft Owners and
Pilots Association  in Frederick,  Maryland , which object to fees
that private air-traffic agencies charge.  Like Firefighters  It’s unfair to compare the FAA to NAV CANADA because the
U.S. is more complex and has more than 10 times the traffic,
NATCA President Paul Rinaldi said in an e-mail.  “The U.S. air-traffic control system is the safest and
most efficient in the world because it prioritizes safety over a
bottom line,” he said.  Controllers are like police and firefighters, ensuring
public safety, and should be under government control he said.  That argument is echoed by members of Congress.  The job of controlling aircraft is “inherently
governmental,” former U.S. Representative James Oberstar, the
Minnesota Democrat who was chairman of the House Transportation
and Infrastructure Committee, said in an interview.  Oberstar said he helped block efforts to take air-traffic
management away from the FAA going back to President  Bill Clinton ’s administration.  The FAA, which handles more than 50 million flights a year,
has the most efficient system in the world, the agency said in
an e-mailed statement.  New Tools  “Over the years, privatization options and other
approaches had been discussed to better manage the delivery of
air traffic services, but none of those proposals were put in
place,” it said in the statement.  NAV CANADA, which raises funds with bonds and has no
shareholders, was established because airlines, the government
and employees were fed up, Crichton said.  “The system in those days couldn’t keep up with the growth
in air-traffic,” he said. “It was plagued with cost overruns,
delays and poor staffing.”  At Canada’s Area Control Center in  Montreal , which oversees
a swath of airspace from Quebec Province north toward Hudson
Bay, controllers have a suite of new tools that make their job
easier, Caroline Heroux, a controller supervisor, said in an
interview.  Tracking Aircraft  They now can track aircraft using satellites in desolate
areas without radar coverage. Properly equipped aircraft can
exchange detailed electronic messages with controllers, which
streamlines or eliminates radio calls.  “In the same volume of airspace, our capacity has really
increased,” Heroux said. “It’s a revolution.”  While the FAA is working on a more ambitious technology
system known as NextGen, Canada has fielded some of its upgrades
sooner than its wealthier neighbor to the south, according to
records from both agencies.  Canada’s controllers have been happier under NAV CANADA,
Greg Myles, president of the  Canadian Air Traffic Control
Association  union, said in an interview.  While the union hasn’t always supported NAV CANADA as it
closed under-used towers and merged radar rooms, it has
cooperated with the company to ensure members were compensated,
Myles said. While total staffing is down, NAV CANADA now employs
more controllers than in 1996.  Controllers also are pleased with the new systems that NAV
CANADA has developed, he said. A team of about 30 works full-
time at the agency’s technology development department, helping
design and test new systems.  Similar Pay  Canadian controllers make between C$64,000 ($65,001) and
C$137,000 ($139,143) a year, according to NAV CANADA data. U.S.
controllers earn a median salary of $108,000, according to the
 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics .  In the tower at Montreal’s Pierre Trudeau International
Airport, NAV CANADA has automated most records, from runway
condition reports to the paper strips controllers once used to
keep track of each plane, supervisor Sebastien Bourgon said in
an interview.  The Canadian government still oversees safety and also
approves the rates the agency charges airlines and private
aircraft for flights, with fees determined by aircraft weight.  That separation of the regulator from the operator is an
important step to improving safety oversight, Robert Poole,
director of transportation policy at the libertarian Reason
Foundation, said in an interview.  Safety Oversight  “In Australia,  Germany , Canada, all these places where air
traffic has been corporatized, there is an objective third-party
safety agency,” Poole said.  Pilots of small private planes pay a flat fee of C$68 ($69)
a year. A  Boeing Co. (BA)  737-800 would pay C$926 ($940) for a trip
of 800 kilometers (497 miles), according to NAV CANADA data.  The FAA collects about $1,700 in fees and taxes on a
similar airline flight, assuming that it carries 100 passengers
who pay the current average of $370 for a round-trip a ticket,
according to FAA and U.S. Bureau of Transportation Statistics
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fees charged by NAV CANADA and other private systems around
the world are too expensive and create an inefficient collection
bureaucracy, Edward Bolen, president of NBAA said in an
interview. Corporate aviation fliers would rather pay the
current 21.8-cent-per-gallon tax on  jet fuel  in the U.S., he
said.  NAV CANADA augments its revenue by selling its air-traffic
computer system for towers to agencies in Dubai,  Hong Kong , the
U.K. and other locations, Sid Koslow, chief technology officer,
said in an interview.  “Our record of developing and deploying air traffic
technology is probably the best in the world,” Crichton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  