-- Ford COO Says He’s Learning to Work Beside CEO Mulally
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   M a t t h e w   M i l l e r
-- 2012-12-14T21:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/ford-coo-says-he-s-learning-to-work-beside-ceo-mulally.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  Chief Operating
Officer  Mark Fields , in line to run the company eventually, said
having Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  beside him in a
weekly meeting of top executives is important for continuity.  “It hasn’t changed whether Alan is running it or I’m
running it,” Fields, 51, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview, referring to a weekly Thursday business review
meeting he has begun leading since becoming COO on Dec. 1.  Mulally remains in the meeting “to provide continuity,”
Fields said. “He’s there to provide good, strategic direction
and also mentorship of the entire leadership team.”  Fields is now the No. 2 executive of a company thriving in
North America, the region he previously ran, as it struggles
overseas. Ford earned a record $6.47 billion in  North America  in
2012’s first nine months and had an operating profit margin of
11.2 percent. The automaker has said it will lose $3 billion in
Europe this year and next and it has less than 3 percent share
in China, the world’s largest auto market.  Mulally, 67, will remain at the automaker through 2014 and
continue to guide Fields in his broader role, Ford has said.
Mulally, who came to Ford from  Boeing Co. (BA)  in 2006, is credited
with saving the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker without a
bailout or bankruptcy.  “It’s a privilege actually to work beside him, to continue
to learn from him,” Fields said of Mulally yesterday. The
weekly gathering of executives now run by Fields is “the heart
of our business, in terms of how we run it,” the COO said.
“Alan has instituted that process and it’s worked wonders in
our company.”  Ford fell 1.5 percent to $11.10 at the close in New York.  Mulally’s View  “I’m spending more of my time on the more strategic
issues, especially about where do we want to serve around the
world that we’re not,” Mulally said in a separate Bloomberg
Television interview.  Other executive changes went into effect on Dec. 1,
including Joe Hinrichs taking over as president of Ford’s
Americas unit, the post formerly held by Fields. Stephen Odell,
head of Ford of Europe, added responsibility for  Africa .  Jim Farley , the company’s global marketing chief, received the
additional duty of supervising the company’s Lincoln luxury
brand.  “I get a chance also to help nurture this new team, and
support them as they run the day-to-day operations led by
Mark,” Mulally said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Miller  in Dearborn, Michigan, at 
 mtmiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  