-- Wind Power Sells at World’s Lowest Rate in Brazil Auction
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n   a n d   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2012-12-15T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/four-developers-sign-wind-contracts-in-brazil-for-282-megawatts.html
Four energy developers agreed to
sell power from 10 proposed wind farms in  Brazil  at the cheapest
rates ever.  Enerfin Sociedad de Energia SA,  Renova Energia SA (RNEW11) , EGP-
Serra Azul and Bioenergy Geradora de Energia Ltda. won contracts
to sell electricity to distributors for an average price of
87.94 reais ($42.16) a megawatt-hour, Brazil’s national energy
agency Empresa de Pesquisa Energetica said in an e-mail
yesterday.  “This is definitely the cheapest wind energy in the
world,” Maria Gabriela da Rocha Oliveira, a Sao Paulo-based
analyst with Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said in a telephone
interview. It’s 12 percent lower than the August 2011 auction
that yielded an average price of 99.58 reais a megawatt-hour.
That was the lowest price in the world for wind power then and
the least expensive power in Brazil, beating natural gas and
hydroelectricity.  A scarcity of contracts in yesterday’s government-organized
auction spurred competition and drove down prices, Elbia Melo,
executive president of the Sao Paulo-based wind-industry trade
group, Associacao Brasileira de Energia Eolica, said in a
telephone interview. In Brazil’s power auctions, developers bid
down the price they will accept to sell power, and the lowest
offer wins.  Renova Energia, Enerfin and EGP may have agreed to low
prices because they can attach the additional capacity to
existing projects, a strategy that requires less capital than
developing a new wind farm, Melo said.  Bioenergy will sell 201.6 megawatts of capacity for 87.77
reais a megawatt-hour, the lowest price of the auction.  “It’s uncertain how Bioenergy will make money at this
price,” Melo said. “This fall in prices isn’t indicative of
where prices for  wind energy  is going in Brazil.”  Too Low  The price is prompting concern that some of the planned
wind farms won’t get built.  Last year’s prices  “were so low some projects may not be
executed,” Joao Paulo Gualberto Silva, commercial manager for
Jaragua Do Sul, Brazil-based turbine supplier  WEG SA (WEGE3) , said in a
telephone interview before the auction.  “If lots of projects don’t get built because they’re not
profitable, this ends up hurting the wind industry’s
credibility,” Silva said.  Pressuring Suppliers  Developers will probably pressure turbine makers for
cheaper equipment, Oliveira said. Suppliers may find it hard to
meet such requests because the national development bank Banco
Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social is increasing
local-content requirements that may make turbines more
expensive.  “Suppliers will both have to provide cheap equipment and
invest in new local assembly lines to meet BNDES’s
requirements,” she said.  The developers are planning wind farms with total capacity
of 281.9 megawatts that will be completed by January 2017.  EDP - Energias de Portugal SA (EDP) ,  Portugal ’s biggest utility,
also sold energy from two large hydroelectric projects with
total capacity of 292.4 megawatts in the event, according to the
regulator’s statement. The 12 projects will require about 1.1
billion reais in investment.  Brazil auctioned contracts to sell 574 megawatts of
capacity this year, about 10 percent of what power companies
expect to sell annually, said Sergio Tamashiro, an analyst at
Sao Paulo-based lender Banco Safra SA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net ;
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  