-- FuelCell Surges on Sale of 14.9-Megawatt Plant: Boston Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-12-14T22:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/fuelcell-jumps-on-sale-of-14-9-megawatt-power-plant-to-dominion.html
FuelCell Energy Inc., (FCEL)  a U.S.
manufacturer of fuel-cell power plants, surged the most in more
than a month on its first sale to Dominion Resources Inc.  FuelCell, based in Danbury,  Connecticut , climbed 7.5
percent to 94 cents at the close in  New York , the most since
Nov. 5.  Dominion will own the 14.9-megawatt system in Bridgeport,
Connecticut, and sell the output to Connecticut Light & Power
Co. under a 15-year power-purchase agreement, FuelCell said
today in a statement. It will have five 2.8-megawatt systems
that convert natural gas to electricity without combustion, and
will be completed by late 2013. The project will also convert
waste heat into electricity, boosting its capacity.  Dominion would consider purchasing additional FuelCell
systems, especially to serve customers that require an
uninterrupted source of electricity, Jim Eck, the utility
holding company’s vice president of business development, said
in an interview today.  “This partnership with FuelCell diversifies the sources of
clean power we can offer our customers,” Eck said. “This could
be very attractive for data centers, hospitals and anyone that
might need reliable islands of power independent of the grid.”  Connecticut Light agreed to pay $89 a megawatt-hour for the
power produced by the plant over 15 years, which will “provide
adequate returns” to Richmond, Virginia-based Dominion, he
said.  ‘Big Player’  For FuelCell, the agreement increases its order backlog by
about $125 million and lends credibility to the company’s
efforts to build similar plants in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia ,
said Chief Executive Officer Chip Bottone.  “We needed a big player to help us do this right,”
Bottone said in an interview.  With the addition of waste-heat power, the fuel-cell
project will be able to convert 50 percent of the energy in gas
into electricity, Bottone said. The average gas plant converts
about 41 percent, according to U.S. Energy Department data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  