-- Gallant to Buy 52% of Auto Dealer Indomobil Sukses
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2012-12-14T05:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/gallant-plans-share-bond-sale-to-buy-indomobil-sukses.html
Gallant Venture Ltd. (GALV) , an investment
holding company, will buy majority control of Indonesian
automotive retailer  PT Indomobil Sukses Internasional (IMAS)  for $809.3
million to tap growth in Southeast Asia’s largest economy.  Gallant will pay 5,420 rupiah per share for a 52 percent
stake from PT Cipta Sarana Duta Perkasa, a 1.3 percent premium
to yesterday’s closing price, the Singapore-based company said
in a stock exchange filing today. Gallant shares surged as much
as 13 percent and the company will also have to buy the
Indomobil shares it doesn’t own, valuing the auto retailer at 15
trillion rupiah ($1.55 billion).  Vehicle sales  in Indonesia increased 15 percent in the
first 11 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as
economic expansion boosted personal incomes and encouraged
consumer spending. The Southeast Asian country’s growth may
accelerate to 6.5 percent in 2013 from an estimated 6.3 percent
this year as domestic consumption helps offset slowing exports,
according to the central bank.  “With foreign direct investment coming into  Indonesia  and
income increasing, demand for vehicles are expected to be
positive,” said Adrian Joezer, an analyst at PT Mandiri
Sekuritas in Jakarta who has a  buy rating  for Indomobil. He
expects vehicle demand in Indonesia to grow 9 percent to 10
percent next year.  Shares of Gallant rose as much as 13 percent before trading
at 29 Singapore cents as of 12:25 p.m. in Singapore trading.
Indomobil declined 0.9 percent to 5,300 rupiah in Jakarta.  The 5,420 rupiah per share price represents a multiple of
12.4 times 2013 estimated earnings-per-share.  Rights Issue  The deal will be funded with a S$675 million ($553 million)
rights issue with Gallant selling one share to existing
investors at S$0.28 apiece for each share they already own,
according to the statement. The company will also  borrow  about
S$128.2 million from financial institutions, and raise S$80
million from a convertible bonds issue and S$104.7 million from
a non-convertible bonds issue.  “The acquisition presents an opportunity for shareholders
to participate in Indonesia’s growing middle-class retail and
industrial segments,” Gallant said in the statement. “The
investment is also expected to provide the group with access to
the financial sector, which is considered to have attractive
growth potential.”  Indomobil Sukses is one of the two largest automotive
groups in Indonesia, according to Gallant. Its primary business
includes vehicle sales distribution, after-sales service and
vehicle-ownership financing. The company manages brands
including Audi, Nissan, Renault and Suzuki.  Gallant  has businesses in utilities, industrial parks,
resorts, property developments and mining projects in the
region, including Indonesia, Singapore and  China .  CIMB Bank Bhd. and  UOB Kay Hian (UOBK)  Pte were the advisers for
the stake acquisition and the rights offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  