-- GE Adds $10 Billion to Share Buybacks as Immelt Returns Cash
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-12-14T21:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/ge-boosts-share-buybacks-by-10-billion-as-immelt-returns-cash.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  will buy back
an additional $10 billion of shares and increase its dividend
for the fifth time since 2010 as Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  rushes to return cash to investors.  GE raised the payout by 2 cents to 19 cents a share payable
on Jan. 25, the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company said today
in a statement. The world’s largest maker of  jet engines ,
medical imaging equipment and diesel locomotives slashed the
payout to 10 cents a share in 2009 to save cash during the
financial crisis.  Immelt is emphasizing both higher  dividends  and stock
buybacks, with GE expecting to generate $100 billion of cash
through 2016 as he expands profit margins at  industrial units 
and shrinks financial operations. GE had $4.9 billion remaining
on an existing repurchase plan running through next year, and
the additional shares will be bought through 2015.  “Returning cash to our shareholders remains a top
priority,” Immelt said in the statement. “Coupled with our
strong operational outlook, today’s announcement underscores our
balanced and disciplined approach to capital allocation.”  Winning Federal Reserve approval in May to tap a $78
billion  cash pile  at GE Capital Corp., which freed up money for
shareholder benefits, has helped the stock outperform both the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and industrial peers.  Payout Ratio  GE was unchanged at $21.62 at the market close in  New York .
The company has gained 21 percent this year, compared with 12
percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 and 11 percent for its
 index  of 60 industrial stocks.  Immelt said he wanted to reduce GE’s outstanding shares to
fewer than 10 billion and expand the dividend “in line with
earnings” while targeting a payout ratio of 45 percent during a
Sept. 27 meeting with analysts. There were 10.5 billion shares
of GE stock outstanding as of Sept. 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The buyback and dividend boost follow increased access to
cash from GE’s finance unit, with the reinstatement of a payout
suspended during the financial crisis.  GE Capital  returned $5.5
billion this year through the third quarter after resuming the
transfers in May, according to a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Immelt suspended the payments in 2009 to conserve cash as
the unit grappled with $32 billion in credit losses.  The company slashed its quarterly payout to common equity
holders by 68 percent to 10 cents that February, the first
reduction since the Great Depression, to conserve cash as it
struggled to navigate the aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s collapse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  