-- Georgia Tech Uses Low-Cost Loans for Transforming Ramblin’ Wreck
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-12-14T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/georgia-tech-uses-low-cost-loans-for-transforming-ramblin-wreck.html
Georgia Tech’s bet on the  U.S.
economy  at the depth of the recession allowed it to upgrade
sports facilities and save about $72 million in construction and
financing costs.  Since 2008, when the U.S. housing market began its
collapse, through this year, the Georgia Institute of
Technology’s athletic department borrowed almost twice its
annual revenue to pay for $88.1 million in arenas, scoreboards
and practice areas.  Georgia Tech saw an Atlanta construction industry in
freefall and  interest rates  declining to the lowest levels in a
generation. Now, as the three-week, 35-game college football
bowl season begins, Tech -- known by its students as the
Ramblin’ Wreck -- and schools including the  University of
Louisville  and the University of  Michigan  are enjoying the
fruits of decisions they made when the economy was in distress.  “A lot of contractors and builders were anxious for the
work,” Georgia Tech President G.P. “Bud” Peterson said in an
interview. “We are at rock bottom on interest rates. It’s a
pretty good combination if you can do it.”  The decision is paying off for the 127-year-old university
that produces top graduates in engineering and computer science.
With an undergraduate enrollment of 13,948 at the beginning of
this school year, Georgia Tech’s $1.62 billion endowment  ranked
44th  among U.S. and Canadian colleges and universities in fiscal
2011, according to the National Association of College and
University Business Officers.  The school, which faces the University of  Southern
California  on Dec. 31 in the Sun Bowl, has a storied football
history. The trophy given annually to college football’s best
player is named after former Tech coach John Heisman. The
Ramblin’ Wreck moniker dates to 1927 when students gave a dean’s
1914 Ford that name.  Construction Savings  The school estimates it saved at least $30 million in
construction costs, based on the price of similar projects done
before the recession, athletics chief financial officer Frank
Hardymon said in an interview. Near-record-low interest rates
also yielded savings of at least $42 million in finance charges,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Georgia Tech sold $226 million of bonds to pay for the
projects and to refinance old debt. Interest ranged from a
variable 1.25 percent on bonds that were refinanced before it
went up to fixed rates from 4.14 percent to 5.94 percent.  The annual debt service will amount to about $12 million
over the next decade and will increase to as much as $18 million
before the bonds are retired, Hardymon said.  Endowment Money  The school will pay down its debt from sports revenue and
about $63 million in endowment funds that the athletic
department projects will grow by at least 6 percent annually
during the next 30 years.  Among the projects Georgia Tech built or renovated with the
funds between 2008 and early 2012 were the basketball arena ($50
million) and practice facility ($6.4 million); an indoor
football practice facility ($9 million); a tennis center ($12
million); football scoreboards ($4.6 million), and football
stadium maintenance ($3.2 million).  Hardymon said the depressed market for construction drove
builders to trim their bids for the basketball project.  “There were no comparable major construction projects
going on in Atlanta at the time and these companies were looking
to put their people to work,” he said. “I don’t think we would
receive those types of cost breaks today or in the future.”  Louisville, Michigan  A handful of sports programs in the top division assumed
major facilities debt between 2008 and this year, according to
financial reports filed with the  National Collegiate Athletic
Association .  Michigan, in  Ann Arbor , increased its debt by $80.5 million
to $215.4 million for a football stadium renovation and practice
facilities. Minnesota, in  Minneapolis , boosted borrowing by
$200.6 million to $236.6 million when it built a new football
stadium. Louisville, in  Kentucky , expanded its football stadium
and built a boat house while raising debt by $88.3 million to
$99.8 million.  “You can be conservative or you can take advantage of the
market,” said Kevin Miller, Louisville’s executive senior
associate athletic director, who oversees the department’s
financial operations.  Martin Marietta  When Athletic Director Dan Radakovich was hired at Georgia
Tech in 2006, his approach to building and renovating was to
find a donor and proceed as the money became available.  But as the economy sank, he began to change his thinking.
One person he consulted was Georgia Tech graduate Stephen Zelnak, chairman of Raleigh, North Carolina-based  Martin
Marietta Materials Inc. (MLM)   “As the environment developed with construction costs
dropping sharply, and interest levels that we may never see
again in our lifetimes, he developed an appetite for it,”
Zelnak said in a telephone interview. “We said to ourselves,
‘This may be the only time we’ll ever see an opportunity to do
what we need to do at such low cost.’”  Radakovich, who resigned from the school to take a similar
position at  Clemson University  that started Dec. 1, still wasn’t
ready to leap. Tech had a 10-year plan for replacing its
facilities and the athletic director hoped to raise at least a
third of each project’s cost up front.  Donors Contribute  Boosters helped him make the transition. Zelnak committed
$4.5 million for the basketball practice facility. Hank
McCamish, a Georgia Tech alumnus and founder of the McCamish
Group insurance company, committed $15 million to renovate the
basketball arena.  Radakovich said Georgia Tech’s renovations were necessary
to maintain its place in the Atlantic Coast Conference -- one of
six conferences receiving an automatic berth to the Bowl
Championship Series that determines the national football title.  “It will help coaches to sell potential student athletes
to come to Georgia Tech where they are not only going to get a
phenomenal education, but they will have the tools to (go) as
far as their athletic talent will take them,” Radakovich said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  