-- German-French Sparring Over Euro Caps 2012 Crisis Fight
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-12-14T13:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/german-french-sparring-over-euro-caps-2012-crisis-fight.html
European Union leaders capped a
third year of debt-crisis management with  Greece  obtaining fresh
financial aid, a euro bank regulator taking shape and  Germany 
and  France  sparring over what to do next.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande , stewards of the euro area’s top two
economies, promoted conflicting visions of how to revamp the
currency bloc once the fiscal crisis subsides.  “Are there countries in the euro zone that don’t want more
transfers? Yes, there are some,” Hollande told reporters after
a Brussels summit, the 22nd since Greece’s debt burst onto the
agenda in early 2010. “We can’t just be constrained by
countries that don’t want to go further.”  Progress in stabilizing Greece and calming bond markets
lifted expectations that Europe is going beyond stopgap policy
making, often at all-night negotiating sessions, to put a truly
fail-safe system into place.  It took two nocturnes to chart the next steps, starting
with an accord by finance ministers at 4:30 a.m. yesterday to
make the European Central Bank the hub of bank supervision by
March 2014 for the 17 countries using the euro. By noon, a deal
was forged to release 49.1 billion euros ($64.3 billion) for
Greece, followed by the leaders’ future-of- Europe  deliberations
until 2 a.m. today.  Range Bound  The euro traded at $1.3075 at 2:15 p.m. Brussels time,
barely changed from $1.2960 at the start of 2012. During the
year it never fell below its January 1999 debut rate of $1.1668,
a sign that for all the turmoil, investors felt the currency’s
survival was never in jeopardy.  Financial-market tensions have abated, thanks mainly to a
pledge by the ECB, first made in late July and yet to be acted
on, to put a floor under the bond markets of vulnerable
countries such as Spain or Italy.  “It is still possible that an accident will precipitate
the collapse of the euro zone,” the Washington-based  Brookings
Institution  said in a report this week. “What this narrative
misses, however, is the other important part of the story -- how
European leaders, at the same time as they are battling
difficult economic conditions, are slowly building more solid
foundations for the euro zone.”  Euro Road Map  Accords on bank supervision and Greece’s next disbursement
left the leaders to focus on a “road map” for turning the euro
zone into a “genuine” economic union over the next 5 to 10
years, with models such as the federal systems in the U.S. and
 Switzerland .  With Germany heading for elections in September 2013,
Merkel, Europe’s dominant policy maker, ruled out adding to the
burden on her voters, the main underwriters of 486 billion euros
in rescue loans granted since 2010.  A strategy under discussion to handle failing banks “may
not be at the cost of the taxpayers but has to be structured so
that those responsible for the failure of the banks carry the
burden,” Merkel said.  A half year of brainstorming over the euro’s future tilted
further in Germany’s direction, with any thought of the joint
issuance of new debts or redemption of old ones banished from
the  road map  put together by EU President  Herman Van Rompuy .  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who
contributed to the road map, said he was “quite dissatisfied”
that its bolder recommendations were dropped.  ‘Limited’ Pool  Even a less ambitious proposal for euro countries to pay
into a common fund to offset economic shocks was too much for
Germany. Only a “limited” pool of “around 10 or 15 or 20
billion euros” will be made available for countries that sign
economic-reform contracts, Merkel said.  That would be equal to at most 0.2 percent of euro-area
gross domestic product, less than the 2 percent that Bruegel, a
Brussels research institute, estimates would be needed for a
shock-absorber budget to cushion disruptions such as a jolt to
energy prices.  In the opposite corner was Hollande, who took office in May
on an anti-austerity platform and, in a break with the Berlin-
Paris tandem that guided the early stages of the crisis
response, sought allies in Spain and  Italy  to offset German
dominance.  Merkel blocked Hollande’s bid to have “future-oriented
investments” bracketed out of budget-deficit calculations.
Hollande took solace in the prospect of even a bare-bones
financing package for growth-boosting reforms. “I’ll take it,”
he said. “I’ll take everything.”  Next Steps  The conflict will carry over into next year’s debate on the
path toward a banking union, with the goal of giving central
authorities the power, and the financing, to deal with failing
banks. At stake is when the 500 billion-euro European Stability
Mechanism rescue fund would get the power to recapitalize banks
directly, essentially using European money to clean up mistakes
made at the national level.  The fate of Greece -- pummeled by 17 consecutive quarters
of recession and 25.4 percent unemployment -- hangs over the the
deliberations. Yesterday’s agreement to release the first aid
tranche in six months came with a pledge by European governments
to take  “additional measures”  in case Greek debt reduction
veers off track.  While another cut in Greece’s bailout-loan rates and an
increase in infrastructure funding would help fill in any
remaining gaps, the policy makers hinted that outright debt
forgiveness -- still a taboo topic for Germany and its top-rated
creditor allies -- would be on the table as well.  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde , less constrained by European political sensitivities,
was more explicit, saying the euro governments made “assurances
to provide additional debt relief if necessary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  