-- Gold Little Changed as Investors Weigh Stimulus, Budget Concern
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-12-14T19:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/gold-little-changed-as-investors-weigh-stimulus-budget-concern.html
Gold was steady in  New York  as
investors weighed additional U.S. stimulus and mounting concerns
that lawmakers haven’t moved closer to resolving the country’s
budget impasse.  Prices dropped for the third-straight week even after the
 Federal Reserve  said Dec. 12 it will start buying $45 billion a
month of Treasuries, adding to $40 billion a month of existing
mortgage-debt purchases. U.S. President  Barack Obama  and House
Speaker  John Boehner  met yesterday to discuss averting more than
$600 billion of spending cuts and tax increases before a year-
end deadline, with no public announcement of progress.  “The Fed’s decision to stick with its expansionary
monetary policy and even to expand its bond-purchasing program
was unable to help gold back on its feet,” Commerzbank AG
analysts including Carsten Fritsch said in a report.  Gold futures for February delivery rose 20 cents to settle
at $1,697 an ounce at 1:41 p.m. on the Comex in New York. The
metal was down 0.5 percent this week.  Prices are heading for a 12th consecutive annual gain as
central banks from the U.S. to China pledge more steps to spur
economic growth. Holdings in gold-backed  exchange-traded
products  rose 3.9 metric tons to a record 2,630 tons yesterday,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The so-called fiscal cliff of U.S. spending cuts and tax
increases is scheduled to begin in January. Obama and
congressional Democrats have said they won’t discuss spending
cuts unless Republicans agree to higher tax rates for top
earners. Republicans are insisting on reductions to entitlement
programs such as Medicare.  Silver futures for March delivery fell 0.2 percent to
$32.299 an ounce, extending the weekly decline to 2.5 percent.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
January delivery climbed 0.1 percent to $1,614.50 an ounce. It
added 0.5 percent this week.  Palladium futures for March delivery increased 1.5 percent
to $702.05 an ounce. The metal gained 0.6 percent for the week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  