-- Gollum Lifts ‘Hobbit’; Paunchy Pacino in ‘Stand Up Guys’
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-12-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/gollum-lifts-hobbit-paunchy-pacino-in-stand-up-guys-.html
To paraphrase that Middle Earth
golden oldie, the road goes ever on and on -- and then on some
more -- in  Peter Jackson ’s “The Hobbit: An Unexpected
 Journey .”  With a wizard’s bag of cutting-edge high-definition 3-D
effects and a geek’s fascination with minutiae, Jackson injects
J.R.R. Tolkien’s simple, gateway drug of a tale with a gravitas
better suited to that dense masterpiece “The Lord of the
Rings” trilogy.  To stretch the lighthearted 1937 novel into three one-per-
year movies, director/writer Jackson and cowriters Fran Walsh,
Philippa Boyens and Guillermo del Toro troll Tolkien’s footnotes
and marginalia for material.  If you’ve plowed through “The Silmarillion,” you know the
terrain: Exposition about dwarf lineage, ancient Elvish kingdoms
and old battles won and lost -- the Tolkien equivalent of the
Bible’s begats.  Still, Jackson’s team unearths some treasure. There’s
nasty-looking Orc leader Azog (barely mentioned in the book),
and an opening flashback to depict some long-ago evil-doing by
the book’s chief monster, Smaug the dragon.  Tolkien’s primary plot is intact: The wizard Gandalf (an
indispensable  Ian McKellen ) recruits the humble, shire-bound
hobbit Bilbo Baggins (Martin Freeman, winning) in a crusade to
slay the sleeping fire-breather of a far-off land.  Despite the set-up, “An Unexpected Journey” is pretty
much dragon-free (we see Smaug’s tail and claws, Godzilla-like,
at the start and his awakened eye at the end).  Stone Giants  That leaves the bulk of the almost-three-hour running time
to the side adventures of Bilbo and his 13 dwarf companions, led
by the heavy-hearted Thorin Oakenshield (Richard Armitage,
handling the Viggo Mortensen stoic heroism).  Among the journey’s set pieces: a layover in the elvish
village Rivendell (with  Cate Blanchett , Christopher Lee and Hugo
Weaving recreating their “Rings” roles); a run-in with a trio
of Cockney-accented comic-relief trolls; and a close call with
several mountain-size granite creatures called Stone Giants.  If the latter resemble Rock’em Sock’em Robots on steroids,
blame goes in part to Jackson’s new High Frame Rate 3-D filming
process.  Doubling the standard number of frames-per-second, the new
format (available in select theaters) displays images with
disconcerting clarity and depth.  The odd result is at once lifelike and artificial, a high-
gloss mash-up of live-theater immediacy and the harsh,
unforgiving look of afternoon soap operas.  Great Gollum  At its here-and-there best, “An Unexpected Journey”
wrestles technology, storytelling and imagination into one great
beast, and more often than not that is the brilliant Andy
Serkis’s motion-capture Gollum.  Hissing about his “Precious” through pointed baby teeth,
his blue saucer eyes conveying more depth than any landscape,
the pathetic, murderous Gollum is the franchise’s masterwork.
Here, in one creation, is a soul from Lon Chaney’s silent
Hollywood, in a body of the future.  “The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey,” from  Warner Bros.
Pictures  and MGM, is playing across the U.S. Rating: *** (Evans)  ‘Stand Up Guys’  Al Pacino ,  Christopher Walken  and Alan Arkin play retired
gangsters on a spree in  “Stand Up Guys.”  They steal
 prescription drugs , go joy-riding, visit a whorehouse and
generally behave like morons a quarter of their age.  Following the conventions of the geezer action film, they
easily outsmart and outfight threatening hoods in the prime of
youth. The movie, written by Noah Haidle and directed by Fisher
Stevens, is bearable -- barely -- because of Walken’s dry cool
and Arkin’s sense of humor.  But, oh, Pacino. How depressing to watch him behave like
the elderly Bette Davis, using his wrinkles and his pot belly to
beg for our sympathy.  Though his character is supposed to have just emerged from
28 years in the pen, it’s hard to feel sorry for him, because
you can’t forget it’s Pacino up there. He isn’t an actor who
fades into a role.  He’s always been all over you. Sometimes it makes you
euphoric and sometimes, as here, it makes you want to cringe.  “Stand Up Guys,” from Lionsgate, is playing in  New York .
Rating: * (Seligman)  ‘Save the Date’  Sarah (Lizzy Caplan) isn’t sure she loves Kevin (Geoffrey
Arend), the singer she’s just moved in with, the way her sister,
Beth (Alison Brie), loves Kevin’s bandmate, Andrew (Martin
Starr). A mortifyingly public proposal seals her doubt.  “Save the Date”  is a comedy about commitment and its
terrors. The main thing it has going for it is a quintet of
adorable young actors (the fifth is  Mark Webber  as Kevin’s
rival, Jonathan) who, with one exception, are easy to hang with
and know how to make the most of their hipster lines.  The exception is Brie, or rather the petulant princess she
plays, fixated on her wedding plans and mad at her boyfriend and
her sister for not obsessing with her. (What on earth draws this
prim control freak to a slovenly rocker -- and vice versa?)  The others, though they all have careers, seem to be living
in a Slackerville of the mind. When Jonathan tells Sarah why he
admires fish -- “They get to float around and there’s nowhere
they gotta be” -- he pretty much expresses the movie’s ethos.  “Save the Date” is neither dumb nor aimless, and the
actors create real characters. But the director, Michael Mohan,
is a little too eager for his movie to be loved.  The issues of commitment it raises are unresolvable --
ultimately, you take the plunge and hope for the best -- so
resolving them feels dishonest. Moreover, it uses a lost cat as
a plot device, and there’s nothing respectable about that.  “Save the Date,” from  IFC Films , is playing in New York
and  Los Angeles . Rating: ** (Seligman)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater, Frederik
Balfour on  art .  To contact the writers on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 