-- Google, True Religion, Hasbro: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-12-14T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/google-true-religion-hasbro-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  reached a deal with
Belgian newspaper publishers, resolving a six-year copyright
battle that had blocked the owner of the world’s most-used
search engine from publishing links to local newspapers.  “We turn the page, we end the litigation and we’re
starting afresh with a business partnership,” Thierry Geerts,
managing director of Google Belgium, told reporters on a
conference call yesterday.  The agreement was announced in a Google blog post
yesterday. Under the accord, Google will pay the publishers’
legal fees, said Geerts, who declined to give an amount. Google
won’t pay to include any of the Belgian content.  Google last year lost an appeal against a 2007 Belgian
court ruling that forced the Mountain View, California-based
company to remove links and snippets of articles from French-and
German-language Belgian newspapers from Google.com and
Google.be. Google faced a daily fine of 25,000 euros ($32,700)
for any delay in implementing the judgment.  Copiepresse, a Belgian group defending newspapers’
copyrights in the litigation, argued that the snippets generated
revenue for the search engine and that publishers should be paid
for the content. Copiepresse had a second suit pending that
sought as much as 49.1 million euros for the period in which the
newspapers’ content was visible on Google News.  Margaret Boribon, the secretary-general of Copiepresse,
said the group was satisfied “to have been able to come to an
accord that will put an end to all the proceedings.”  Google said “it is important to note” that it is not
paying Belgian publishers or authors to include their content in
its services. The company said it will work with Belgian French-
language newspapers “on a broad range of business
initiatives,” including the promotion of both Google’s and the
publishers’ services and increasing accessibility to the
newspapers’ content.  “This agreement comes at an important moment, in the midst
of a debate how best the newspaper industry should adapt to the
new digital age,” Google’s Geerts said in the blog post.
“Instead of continuing to argue over legal interpretations, we
have agreed on the need to set aside past grievances in favor of
collaboration.”  Google Receiving 2.5 Million Takedown Requests a Week  Google Inc. is removing 97.5 percent of all the URLs
specified in copyright removal requests, according to  a blog
posting  by Fred Von Lohmann, legal director at the Mountain
View, California-based company.  He said the company will update every day its Transparency
Report disclosing copyright removal requests it receives. The
number of weekly requests has increased from 250,000 a year ago
to more than 2.5 million, according to  the report .  In the past month, Google received requests to remove more
than 12 million URLs and 40,000 domains, according to the
report. The  Recording Industry Association of America  had the
most requests, asking that 2.4 million URLs be removed.  Nepal Will Enforce Copyright Act, Minister Tells Conference  Nepal’s minister for culture, tourism and civil aviation
said his government is committed to dealing with copyright
protection and infringement, the Himalayan Times  reported .  Speaking at a Dec. 12 seminar organized by his government
agency, Minister Posta Badahur Bogati said enforcement will
cover music, movies and books, according to the newspaper.  Other organizers of the conference were the Nepal Copyright
Register’s Office and the World  Intellectual Property 
Organization, the Himalayan Times reported.  Bogati said the government would take action under the
Copyright Act 2059 BS, according to the Times.  For more copyright news, click here .  Patents  Cottage Industry of U.S. Patent Suits Shut Down by Appeals Court  A U.S. appeals court that once acknowledged it was creating
a new cottage industry in patent litigation shut down that
market yesterday.  Manufacturers won’t have to face lawsuits filed before
September 2011 for posting expired patents on their products,
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in  Washington 
ruled, in a decision posted on its website.  The court said Congress acted within its authority last
year by enacting a law limiting those kinds of lawsuits and
making the change retroactive, so that it applied to all pending
litigation.  About a thousand lawsuits were filed against companies that
had posted expired or irrelevant patents on their packaging
after a 2009 Federal Circuit ruling created the potential for
huge damage awards. The court said companies could be penalized
as much as $500 for every item marked with a false patent
number.  Kenneth Brooks, a  California  lawyer, filed suit against
music-equipment maker  Dunlop Manufacturing Inc.  in September
2010, claiming that a winder used in replacing guitar strings
was marked with a patent that had been invalidated and expired.  Brooks argued that Congress, in limiting the lawsuits,
overstepped its authority by eliminating cases that were already
under way. Pending cases, he said, should be allowed to proceed.  The cases were brought under a statute that let anyone file
lawsuits on the theory that the general public had been harmed
by misleading information. Under the law, damage awards were
split 50-50 with the government. The  Justice Department 
collected $7.56 million in damages from false marking suits in
2011 and $3.4 million in 2010, according to records on the
agency’s website.  It was little used before the Federal Circuit’s 2009 ruling
raised the prospects for astronomical damages. The court, which
specializes in  patent law , said at the time it could be creating
a “cottage industry of false marking litigation.”  Elimination of the false-marking provision was part of an
overhaul of the U.S. patent system signed by President  Barack
Obama  on Sept. 16, 2011.  The case is Brooks v. Dunlop Manufacturing Inc., 12-1164,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The
lower court case is Brooks v. Dunlop Manufacturing Inc., 10-
4341, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  Apple Defenses Over Two Samsung Patents Won’t Be Considered  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  failed to persuade a federal judge to rule that
two  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  patents are unenforceable because
they allegedly were obtained through manipulation.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose , California, said
in an order yesterday that she won’t consider Apple’s legal
arguments about the Samsung patents because a jury found that
the iPad-maker hadn’t infringed them. Samsung has said the
patents are essential to an industry standard for 3G mobile
technology. It sued Apple last year, accusing it of
infringement.  The jury found in Apple’s favor at trial. Still, Apple
sought a ruling from Koh that the patents were unenforceable,
alleging Samsung manipulated technology standard-setting
processes to obtain them, according to court filings.  “Because the court finds that these defenses cannot affect
the outcome of the present case in light of the jury’s finding
of noninfringement, the court, in its discretion, will not
consider these defenses at this time,” Koh said in her ruling.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, and  Adam Yates , a spokesman for Suwon, South Korea-
based Samsung, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails seeking
comment on the decision.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  True Religion Sues Websites It Claims Sell Infringing Jeans  True Religion Apparel Inc. (TRLG) , the maker of blue jeans that
cost as much as  $350 a pair , sued 100 unidentified defendants
for trademark infringement.  The lawsuit, filed Dec. 12 in federal court in  Chicago ,
targets Internet stores that are allegedly selling fake versions
of the jeans. Vernon, California-based True Religion said in
court papers that the websites are designed to appear falsely to
be retailers of legitimate products.  Many of the defendant websites incorporate True Religion
trademarks into their URLs, and may also include the clothing
company’s copyright-protected content.  True Religion claims that many of the defendants are
outside the country and ship the fakes into the  U.S. “in small
quantities to minimize detection by  U.S. Customs  and  Border
Protection .”  Consumers are confused and the company is harmed by the
defendants’ actions, the apparel company claims.  It asked the court to bar additional infringement, and to
order Internet search engines, web hosts, social media sites,
and domain name registries to “cease facilitating access” to
the offending websites.  Additionally, the company asked for awards of profits the
defendants realized from their alleged infringement, together
with money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  The case is True Religion Apparel Inc. v. Does 1-100, 1:12-
cv-09894, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  Hasbro Forces Shutdown of ‘My Little Pony’ Online Game Site  Hasbro Inc. (HAS) , the maker of Play-Doh, Mr. Potato Head and
Tinkertoys, persuaded a team of independent game developers to
shut down their “My Little Pony” multiplayer online game, the
developers said in a  blog posting .  When the developers received their initial cease-and-desist
notice from the Pawtucket, Rhode Island-based toymaker, they
“initially dismissed this as it was most likely submitted by
some trolls,” the developers said. They said they soon found
the complaint to be “very real.”  Hasbro makes  My Little Pony  toys, which are plastic ponies
with long manes and tails, mainly marketed to little girls.  The developers said that under U.S. trademark law, Hasbro
had to defend its trademarks or risk losing them. “They had no
choice in the matter, regardless of what they thought of the
project or how it benefited them,” developers said in the blog
posting.  They found no way to work around the issue, so suspended
further development of the game and removed a link through which
players could download it, they said.  The developers say they have now reorganized themselves as
Starlight Studios, and are working on a new product that is
pony-related. The new product is to be ready for  Bronycon , the
annual convention of My Little Pony fans, to be held in
Baltimore in August 2013.  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  