-- Grain Exports Seen Getting Boost From Cheap Ocean-Shipping Costs
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-12-14T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/grain-exports-seen-getting-boost-from-cheap-ocean-shipping-costs.html
Grain-shipping costs that have
tumbled 54 percent this year will help boost demand and prices
for U.S. corn, soybeans and wheat, according to commodity broker
Futures International LLC.  The  Baltic Dry index , a gauge of costs to transport grain
and minerals by sea, reached a 26-year low in February and
remains 72 percent below the five-year average. The slump was
fueled by expanded capacity in the dry-bulk fleet, which has
increased by 44 percent since Jan. 1, 2010, according to IHS
Inc., an Englewood, Colorado, data provider.  “Falling freight costs will be a significant help for
boosting U.S. grain exports and maintain strong soybean
shipments,” said  Terry Reilly , the senior commodity analyst for
Chicago-based Futures International. “Grain prices will rise
into the February-to-May period as world demand shifts to the
U.S.”  Bolstering demand prospects are the reduced supplies of
corn and wheat available for export in  Russia ,  Ukraine ,
 Argentina  and Brazil, Reilly said. Global production of the two
grains will drop 4.7 percent in the year before the 2013 North
American harvests, exceeding the expected 0.4 percent drop in
consumption, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said Dec. 11.  Russia, the world’s third-biggest wheat exporter after the
U.S. and  Australia  last season, cut grain exports by 20 percent
this year and is expected to import 2 million to 3 million
metric tons in the first half of 2013, the  Agriculture Ministry 
said Dec. 11.  Ukraine, Argentina  Ukraine shipped 12.2 million metric tons of grain from this
year’s harvest, including 5.6 million tons of wheat and 4.7
million tons of corn, Acting Agriculture Minister Mykola Prysyazhnyuk said Dec. 6. Prysyazhnyuk will meet this month with
exporters to discuss contracts as supplies decline.  Argentina’s wheat harvest will drop 30 percent to 9.89
million tons, the Buenos Aires Cereals Exchange said Dec. 13.
Oscar Solis, an undersecretary at the agriculture ministry, said
yesterday that some wheat-export contracts will be renegotiated
because excessive rain in some areas hurt yields and reduced the
quality of the grain. About 42 percent of the crop was harvested
as of this week, the exchange said.  Wheat prices may rise as much as 24 percent to $10 a bushel
on the  Chicago  Board of Trade by May, from $8.085 yesterday,
Futures International’s Reilly said.  Corn prices in Chicago have fallen 15 percent since
reaching a record $8.49 a bushel on Aug. 10.  “Corn should retest the record high,” Reilly said.
“Cheaper freight rates, tight global supplies and the sharp
decline in corn prices could prompt major importers to turn to
the U.S. for additional coverage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  