-- Gut Wins First World Cup Downhill as Vonn Crashes
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-12-14T13:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/gut-wins-maiden-downhill-in-val-d-isere-as-vonn-crashes.html
Switzerland ’s  Lara Gut  won the first
World Cup downhill race of her career in  France  as Olympic
champion  Lindsey Vonn  crashed. Norway’s Aksel Lund Svindal took
the men’s super-G race in Italy.  Gut finished in a time of 1 minute, 19.75 seconds for her
third victory on the World Cup circuit. The 21-year-old was the
second skier down the 2,143-meter (7,031 feet) course in Val
d’Isere, where the start gate had been lowered by 100 meters
because of high winds.  “I was a bit worried and didn’t expect to stay in front,
but it’s great,” Gut, whose previous two wins came in the
super-G, told reporters.  Leanne Smith of the U.S. finished second, 0.16 seconds
back, with Switzerland’s Nadja Kamer in third place.  Vonn, who’d won the first four speed events this season,
caught an edge and crashed at the top of the course. She went
through two layers of safety netting before being stopped by a
third. After composing herself, she put her skis back on and
made her own way down to the finish area.  Vonn, a 28-year-old American, was hospitalized with a
stomach infection at the start of the season, which affected her
stamina. After recovering, she won two downhill races and two
super-G events.  Today’s race didn’t change the overall women’s  World Cup 
standings.  Tina Maze  of Slovenia, who finished 11th, leads with
701 points. Double Olympic champion Maria Hoefl-Riesch of
 Germany , 12th today, is second with 465 points.  Vonn, a four-time overall champion who was trying to
become the first woman to win four downhill races in Val
d’Isere, remains in third place with 414 points. She still leads
the downhill standings by 14 points over fellow American Stacey
Cook, who was ninth today, with Gut moving to third.  Svindal won his third World Cup event of the season with a
dominating performance in the super-G in Val Gardena. His time
of 1 minute, 36.95 seconds on the Saslong course was 1.07
seconds faster than  Italy ’s Matteo Marsaglia. Italian Werner
Heel was third, 1.12 seconds behind.  Svindal, 29, continues to lead the overall World Cup
standings with 540 points. Ted Ligety of the U.S., who finished
in 20th place today, is second with 413 points. Svindal also
tops the super-G standings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the sports desk in London at 
3628 or  drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  