-- Michigan Anti-Labor Law Seen as Domino Changing Rust Belt
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n ,   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-12-14T05:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/michigan-anti-labor-law-seen-as-domino-changing-rust-belt.html
Michigan’s swift conversion to a
right-to-work state has galvanized advocates of the law, who vow
to seek similar legislation nationwide under the battle cry:
“If it can happen in Michigan, it can happen anywhere.”  The next logical targets are Michigan’s rust-belt neighbors
that also have Republican governors and legislatures -- Ohio,
Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. The right-to-work forces are on the
move even if lawmakers in those states express reluctance, as
Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder  once did.  They see labor’s defeat in the birthplace of the United
Auto Workers as the defining domino to lead the industrial
Midwest into an era where it can compete with non-unionized
southern states for jobs and prosperity.  “A lot of people are saying if they can do this in
Michigan, why can’t we do it here too?” said Greg Mourad, vice
president of the non-profit National Right to Work Committee
based in Springfield, Virginia. “There are 26 states without
right to work laws and we’re going after them.”  Republicans are waging their campaign with calls of
boosting the economic recovery and keeping U.S. businesses
competitive. They also have political motivations, as organized
labor for decades has used its ability to register and turnout
voters to help the  Democratic Party . This year, unions also
emerged as a top donor to super-political action committees that
ran ads attacking Republican candidates. Seven of the top 10
 organizations  giving to super-PACs were unions, with combined
contributions of $67 million, according to the Washington-based
Center for Responsive Politics.  State Action  Unable to pass labor-related legislation in Washington,
Republicans shifted attention to the states, where the 2008
economic downturn gave governors a new argument for cutting
public workers’ pension funds and limiting future bargaining
rights. From Georgia to Washington state, Republican-led
legislatures have pressed measures that range from stripping
bargaining rights to imposing stiff fines for protests and
picketing.  Michigan now offers yet another example of how a labor
bulwark can be toppled.  The law giving workers the right to opt out of paying union
dues flew through the lame-duck legislature in one week, with
limited debate and without considering it in committee. Snyder
said right-to-work was put into play by labor’s failure to win a
Nov. 6 ballot measure enshrining collective bargaining in the
state’s constitution.  “This is a manual for how to do it for Ohio and
Pennsylvania to study and replicate,” said  Sean McAlinden , a
former UAW member who is now a labor economist for the Center
for Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor , Michigan.  Lifeline Threatened  Big Labor is left demoralized and defensive, its life’s
blood -- union dues -- threatened. McAlinden estimates 20
percent of workers will opt out of paying dues, especially new
hires at auto companies making $16 an hour, half what senior
workers make in the two-tier wage system the UAW accepted to
help the industry survive. That comes amid declining membership;
UAW’s ranks stood at 380,719 last year, according to a U.S.
Labor Department March filing, down from a peak of 1.5 million
members in 1979  The question is, will labor officials seek retribution or
redefine their business model?  “If they want to trash Snyder and send more goons, they
will lose,” McAlinden said. “If they improve services to
members, they will win their way back.”  So far, workers at such plants as  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
Chrysler Group LLC are reacting with anger.  “This is just the first round of a battle that’s going to
divide this state,” Teamsters President James P. Hoffa told  CNN 
on Dec. 11. “We’re going to have a civil war.”  Fighting Back  Labor leaders are already targeting Republican governors
running for re-election in 2014, such as Ohio’s  John Kasich  and
Wisconsin’s  Scott Walker , whose track record of taking on unions
suggests an inclination to back right-to-work legislation.  “You can bet that AFSCME, the rest of the labor
communities and our allies will be out in full force, making
sure that they don’t have the governor’s mansions come the
beginning of 2015,” said Chris Fleming, a spokesman for the
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees,
which represents 1.6 million public sector workers. “Michigan
is not a harbinger for other states.”  Organized labor hopes to transform Michigan into right-to-
work’s Waterloo, by electing a new legislature, overturning the
law and unseating Snyder. The odds of success aren’t good, as
Republicans hold 26 of the 38 seats in the state Senate.  Ohio, Wisconsin  Earlier labor battles in Wisconsin and Ohio inflamed
Democrats and helped keep those states in President  Barack Obama ’s column in last month’s election, said Mike Podhorzer,
political director for the AFL-CIO, a federation of labor
organizations that includes 12 million workers.  “We’re not going to let our guard down,” Podhorzer said.
“Our hope is that other states that look at Michigan will see
it as too divisive to fight.”  Kasich and Walker, still bruised from past labor battles,
aren’t showing an eagerness to take up right-to-work. Walker
told reporters in Wisconsin this week that he would discourage
lawmakers from doing so and risk setting off another political
firestorm that would unnerve employers and disrupt job-creation
efforts.  “I just think it’s a huge distraction,” said Walker, who
faced an unsuccessful recall this year and endured protests by
100,000 people in 2011 when he pushed through legislation that
eliminated public workers ability to collectively bargain for
anything other than base wages. “The last thing I want to do is
create that kind of sense of uncertainty out there,” he said.  Off Agenda  In Ohio, Kasich has said right-to-work is not on his
agenda. The state voted nearly 2-to-1 last year to overturn a
law passed by the Republican-controlled legislature and signed
by Kasich to restrict collective bargaining and outlaw strikes
for almost 360,000 teachers, firefighters, police officers and
other  government employees .  Yet, Ohioans for Workplace Freedom, a PAC, is gathering
petition signatures to place a constitutional amendment on the
ballot next November to make Ohio a right-to work state. They
need 385,253 signatures by August and expect Michigan’s passage
of the law to help them, said Maurice Thompson, the group’s
legal counsel.  “Once it is on the ballot, those who believe in it will
defend it,” Thompson said.  There is reason for Thompson’s optimism. Ohio voters
favored right-to-work legislation by 54 percent to 40 percent,
in a  poll  conducted in February by Hamden, Connecticut-based
 Quinnipiac University .  The Neighborhood  “There is public support for the idea, but Kasich has been
chastised once by the voters of Ohio and it’s not clear he’d
want to try again,” said  Peter Brown , assistant director of the
Quinnipiac University Polling Institute. “The question is, will
Ohio think it’s at a disadvantage if the whole neighborhood goes
right-to-work.”  Indiana passed a right-to-work law this year, which
Michigan’s Snyder cited as a reason he had a change of heart on
legislation he once said he wouldn’t sign. Snyder said Indiana
is now attracting companies that previously passed it by.  Other Republicans in the region “will argue, ’It’s right
across the border in Michigan now’,” said Wallace Hopp,
associate dean at the  University of Michigan ’s Ross School of
Business. “With Michigan and Indiana right-to-work, they’ll
say, ’We’re surrounded now.’”  Indiana Governor  Mitch Daniels , a Republican, told
reporters in Indianapolis this week that “many, many companies
have mentioned” the state’s new right-to-work law.  “We believe it’s one more feature, among many” to attract
jobs to Indiana, Daniels said. “It obviously didn’t hurt.”  Mason-Dixon Divide  Michigan’s conversion means “the Mason-Dixon line
distinction between right to work states and heavily unionized
states has certainly been broken,” said Doug Whitley, president
of the Illinois Chamber of Commerce. “There is no question that
it is a very clear sign that the old status quo of heavily
unionized states not changing is a fallacy.”  Such conversions may have significant ramifications for
workers and businesses.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  pays its non-union
workers in Montgomery, Alabama, wages and benefits worth as much
as $44 to $48 an hour, compared to about $58 an hour at the UAW-
represented U.S. factories of General Motors,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and
Chrysler, according to the Center for Automotive Research in Ann
Arbor, Michigan.  Enthusiasm among Republicans for taking on labor isn’t
universal.  Pennsylvania Punt  Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett, a first-term Republican,
is willing to sign right-to-work legislation -- he just doesn’t
expect his partisan allies who control the legislature to send
one to his desk.  “There is not much movement to do it,” Corbett said Dec.
10 on WPHT-AM radio. “Until I see a strong will to get
legislation passed, we have a lot of other things we have to get
passed.”  Republicans in the suburbs surrounding Philadelphia and
around Allentown wouldn’t support right-to-work legislation,
making passage problematic, said G.  Terry Madonna , director of
the Center for Politics and Public Affairs at Franklin and
Marshall College in Lancaster.  No ‘Labor Agenda’  “I don’t see them engaging in a fight of this kind,”
Madonna said. “This governor has not had a labor agenda.”  The same could have been said of Snyder a month ago, when
he was still seeking the support of UAW President  Bob King  on a
variety of post-election issues upon which they ultimately
disagreed, McAlinden said.  Other governors are likely to wait to see how Snyder fares
before they follow his roadmap.  “The people who brought us right-to-work in Michigan will
view this as a green light,” said  Harley Shaiken , labor
professor at the  University of California  at Berkeley. “Unions
lost the battle in Michigan. It was an important symbolic
defeat, but it’s by no means losing the conflict. It’s just the
beginning and how that plays out will determine whether this was
a surprising one-shot victory or part of a broader trend.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  