-- India’s Nov. Inflation Rate at 7.24%; Median Forecast 7.6
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-12-14T09:14:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/india-s-nov-inflation-rate-at-7-24-median-forecast-7-6.html
India ’s inflation unexpectedly eased
in November, a moderation that may not spur the central bank to
cut  interest rates  next week as price gains still remain above
its comfort level.  The wholesale-price  index  rose 7.24 percent from a year
earlier, after climbing 7.45 percent in October, the Commerce
Ministry said in a statement in New Delhi today. The median of
34 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was a 7.6 percent gain.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao may wait
for more evidence that inflation is on an easing trend before
heeding Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram’s call for
cheaper credit to back a government policy overhaul. Growth is
slowing in  Asia ’s third-largest economy as food costs, supply
bottlenecks from choked roads and ports and longer-term rupee
weakness fanned price pressures and hurt purchasing power.  “We need to see a sustained drop in inflation to say the
price situation has become benign,” said  Arun Singh , an
economist at Dun & Bradstreet Information Services India Pvt. in
Mumbai. “The RBI is likely to stay on hold next week given that
inflation still holds above its comfort level.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent government bond due June 2022
fell 2 basis points to 8.14 percent.  The BSE India Sensitive
Index (SENSEX)  climbed 0.1 percent, while the rupee gained 0.2 percent to
54.365 per dollar. The currency has declined more than 2.5
percent this quarter.  Final Meeting  Wholesale prices rose 8.07 percent in September, more than
the 7.81 percent pace estimated earlier, the ministry said today.  The  Reserve Bank of India  will review interest rates at the
final meeting of 2012 on Dec. 18. The central bank will keep the
benchmark repurchase rate unchanged at 8 percent, according to
18 of 19 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg, with one forecasting
a 50 basis-point reduction.  Fuel prices rose 10.02 percent in November from a year
earlier, compared with 11.71 percent in October, today’s report
showed. Non-food manufactured goods, a measure of  core inflation ,
gained 4.49 percent last month compared with 5.19 percent in
October, calculations by Bloomberg showed.  The pace of price increases in Asia’s third-biggest economy
remains the fastest among the largest  emerging markets . Consumer
prices climbed 9.9 percent in November from a year earlier, the
highest rate in the G-20 after  Argentina .  Subbarao has kept the repurchase rate unchanged since a
half-a-percentage point reduction in April. He has resisted
calls by Chidambaram for lower borrowing costs as inflation
stayed above the central bank’s comfort level of about 5 percent.  Spare Capacity  The central bank has signaled it may reduce rates next
quarter if inflation eases. The central bank may act on rates in
January, Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of the Prime
Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, said in  New Delhi  today.  Price gains may slow as spare capacity in the economy
builds up, providing room for the central bank to add monetary
policy stimulus, the Organization of Economic Cooperation and
Development said in its Economic Outlook report on Nov. 27.  “The decline in the rupee, higher fiscal deficit and the
second-round impact of diesel price increases are keeping
inflation high,” said Upasna Bhardwaj, an economist at ING
Vysya Bank Ltd. in Mumbai. “For growth to pick up and inflation
to come down, the government needs to do much more than what it
has done so far. There are no real concrete actions” to spur
growth, she said.  Reform Agenda  India’s rates are among the highest in Asia, restraining
demand for goods and hurting the pace of economic growth.  Gross
domestic product  rose 5.3 percent in the July-September quarter,
matching the slowest pace since 2009. Car sales by manufacturers
including Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. fell by 8.3 percent in
November, the third decline in the past four months.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government is increasing
the pace of economic reforms. India yesterday approved changes
to a century-old land law and set up a panel to speed up
infrastructure projects.  “ It is too early to say whether the measures have begun to
bear fruit, although it is our expectation that they will do
so,” Chidambaram said in New Delhi today. Consumer-price
inflation remains sticky and “there is no reason at all to
become complacent,” he said.  At its last meeting on Oct. 30, the Reserve Bank lowered
 reserve requirements  for lenders to a 36-year-low of 4.25
percent to free up funds for loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  