-- India Steps Up Policy Overhaul With Land Law Approval: Economy
-- B y   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-12-14T11:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/india-steps-up-policy-overhaul-with-land-law-approval-economy.html
India  will take more steps to boost
the economy in the coming weeks, the finance minister said,
after the government approved changes to a century-old land law
and set up a panel to speed up infrastructure projects.  Amendments to the colonial-era Land Acquisition Act may
help the government curb often violent protests that have
stalled projects for industry and highways. A cabinet committee
yesterday also allowed the establishment of an infrastructure
panel and a 30 percent reduction in the sale of airwaves.  The approvals add momentum to Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s policy agenda by addressing transportation and energy
bottlenecks that have handicapped growth in  Asia ’s third-largest
economy. Singh has already won support to open the economy to
overseas retailers, the biggest embrace of foreign investment in
a decade, as he bids to repair the government’s reform
credentials before national elections in 2014.  “The key here is that the government clearly wants to keep
up the reform momentum,” said  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , an
economist in  Singapore  at Credit Suisse Group AG, who has
covered the Indian economy for almost seven years. “It wants to
signal to the  Reserve Bank of India , as well, that it’s
committed to a series of economic reforms of the sort that the
RBI would appreciate.”  India’s  economy  expanded 5.3 percent in the three months
ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier, slowing to match a three-
year low. Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao, in the last
policy meeting in October, resisted calls from Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram for lower  interest rates  to spur growth.  Stalled Investments  The prime minister in mid-September curbed fuel subsidies,
allowed foreign investment in aviation, and last week won votes
in both houses of parliament to permit the entry of foreign
supermarket chains. Singh will now head a new panel aimed at
speeding up approvals of infrastructure projects.  There are as much as $18 billion of stalled investments in
India, two government officials with knowledge of the figures
told  Bloomberg News  last month. The prime minister is seeking $1
trillion in commitments to build and modernize highways, ports
and  power plants  from 2012 to 2017.  After at least two years of debate, the cabinet yesterday
agreed to make it mandatory for companies buying land to win the
approval of 80 percent of landholders. For public-private
partnership projects, 70 percent of the landowners need to give
consent. The law will be applied retrospectively in certain
cases and also seeks to boost the money paid to farmers.  Maoist Rebellions  Abuse of the 1894 law that allowed the state to seize land
at cheap rates, has led to clashes between farmers and
provincial administrations, and fueled Maoist rebellions in some
mineral-rich states, including Chhattisgarh and Odisha. Among
investments postponed is a $12 billion project first proposed by
South Korean steelmaker  Posco (005490)  in 2005.  “I am confident that the steps we have taken and some more
steps that we will take in the next few weeks will help turn the
Indian economy around,” Chidambaram said today, adding that it
is too early to say if these measures are yielding results.  India’s  inflation  unexpectedly slowed in November, with the
benchmark wholesale-price index climbing 7.24 percent from a
year earlier, after rising 7.45 percent in October.  The yield on the 8.15 percent Indian government bond due
June 2022 fell 2 basis points to 8.14 percent. The  BSE India
Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  climbed 0.5 percent, while the rupee gained 0.1
percent to 54.525 per dollar. The currency has declined more
than 3 percent this quarter.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  added less than 0.1 percent to
127.29 as of 8:02 p.m. Tokyo time.  China ’s  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 4.3 percent to 2,150.63.  Tankan Index  Elsewhere, Singapore’s October retail sales fell 1 percent
from a year earlier, data showed today, while big Japanese
manufacturers are the most pessimistic in almost three years,
the Bank of  Japan ’s quarterly  Tankan index  showed.  The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  may need to cut its  benchmark
rate  further as the local dollar’s resilience impedes growth,
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said.  Euro-area inflation slowed in November as energy-price
growth eased, a report showed today. The annual inflation rate
in the 17-nation currency bloc fell to 2.2 percent, in line with
an initial estimate on Nov. 30, from 2.5 percent in October. In
the U.S., industrial production probably climbed 0.3 percent in
November from a month earlier, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Slowest Pace  India’s monetary authority predicts the $1.8 trillion
economy will expand 5.8 percent in the year ending March 31,
which would be the slowest pace since 2003, according to
government data. Growth will rebound to 6.7 percent in the year
through March 2014 from an estimated 5.5 percent in the current
fiscal year, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  India yesterday also reduced the reserve price of mobile
spectrum by 30 percent, with hopes of drawing buyers like Bharti
Airtel Ltd. and Vodafone Group Plc after last month’s auction
raised just 25 percent of the government’s 400 billion-rupee
($7.3 billion) target. Bids will provide revenue needed to cut
the  budget deficit  to 5.3 percent of gross domestic product by
March 31 from 5.8 percent in the previous 12 months.  Finance Minister Chidambaram today urged lawmakers to
support the government’s reform initiatives.  “If we do not succeed in fiscal consolidation there is a
risk of downgrade to junk status,” he told parliament. “That
will be a terrible consequence. We can’t afford that.”  Singh’s minority government needs the backing of regional
parties to secure approval for the land acquisition law, which
was championed by  Rahul Gandhi , who will lead the Congress
party’s election campaign ahead of polls in 2014.  “The prime minister is beginning to think more and more
about his legacy,” Prior-Wandesforde said. “The measures we
saw in September and these more limited steps yesterday in part
are an attempt to signal that he is a reformist, has been a
reformist and that is what he wants his legacy to be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in  New Delhi  at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  