-- Industrial Production in U.S. Jumps on Rebound From Sandy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-12-14T21:27:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/industrial-production-in-u-s-jumps-on-rebound-from-sandy.html
Industrial production  jumped in
November by the most in two years as U.S. manufacturers began to
rebound from the damage inflicted by superstorm Sandy.  Output at factories, mines and utilities increased 1.1
percent last month, the most since December 2010, after a 0.7
percent drop in October that was larger than previously
estimated, the  Federal Reserve  reported today in  Washington .
Other data showed consumer prices fell last month as fuel costs
retreated.  Manufacturing, which stumbled in the second half of the
year, is stabilizing as housing recovers, auto sales improve and
growth in countries such as China shows signs of picking up. The
deadlock over the  federal budget  remains a hurdle for American
factories as a failure to avert tax increases and spending cuts
is projected to trigger a recession in world’s largest economy.  “The outlook for the back half of 2013 is actually not
that bad,” as long as lawmakers reach a budget deal, said  Carl Riccadonna , a senior U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities
Inc. in New York, one of the top industrial-production
forecasters over the past two years according to Bloomberg
Rankings. “We do have decent job gains, decent income gains,
 consumer spending  is holding up and housing is turning around.
You could easily see a constructive profile for the economy.”  Stocks fell, extending yesterday’s drop, as a slump in
Apple Inc. and budget-talk concerns overshadowed the rise in
industrial production and data showing China’s manufacturing may
expand at a faster pace. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
decreased 0.4 percent to 1,413.58 at the close in New York.
 Treasury securities  rose, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-
year note down to 1.70 percent from 1.73 percent late yesterday.  China Manufacturing  China ’s manufacturing is expanding at a growing pace in
December, suggesting the factory recovery in the world’s second-
biggest economy may withstand a slowdown in exports, according
to a report today. A preliminary purchasing managers’ index
issued by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics climbed to 50.9
from 50.5 for November, the first time in 13 months it was above
the expansion-contraction dividing line of 50.  The Markit Economics preliminary index of U.S. factories
increased to 54.2 in December from a final reading of 52.8 a
month earlier, the London-based group also said today.  Other figures today showed euro-area services and
manufacturing output contracted at a slower pace in December
than economists forecast.  Survey Results  The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 81 economists
projected a 0.3 percent advance in industrial production.
Projections ranged from a decline of 0.8 percent to an advance
of 1 percent. October’s output figure was previously reported as
a 0.4 percent drop.  Manufacturing, about 75 percent of production, surged 1.1
percent in November, the most this year.  The advance in November production “is estimated to have
largely resulted from a recovery in production for industries
that had been negatively affected by  Hurricane Sandy ,” the Fed
said in a statement.  The report also showed motor-vehicle production increased
4.5 percent in November, the most since January, following no
change the prior month. Cars and light trucks sold at a 15.5
million annual rate in November, the most since February 2008,
boosted in part by buyers replacing cars damaged by the storm,
according to data from Ward’s Automotive Group.  Factory output excluding production of vehicles and parts
rose 0.8 percent. Production of business equipment increased 1.2
percent after a 1.3 percent decrease in October.  ‘More Confident’  “I don’t know if it’s the first quarter, but I do feel
more confident about 2013 giving us an opportunity to see a
return to normalcy,”  Paul Reilly , chief financial officer of
 Arrow Electronics Inc. (ARW) , said during a Dec. 11 conference. By
that point, the change in political leadership in China and the
slump in Europe may be “behind us,” he said. Arrow, based in
Englewood, Colorado, distributes electronic components and
computer products to industrial customers.  Consumers in the U.S. are now also getting a boost from
falling fuel prices. The cost of living fell 0.3 percent in
December, the first drop since May, the Labor Department
reported today. The core consumer-price index, which excludes
volatile food and energy costs, climbed 0.1 percent, less than
the 0.2 percent increase that was the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Fed Policy  Facing little threat of inflation, Fed policy makers this
week expanded asset purchases in a continuing bid to reduce
unemployment and spur growth. Department stores including the
 Gap Inc. (GPS) ,  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and J.C. Penney Co. are offering sales in
the midst of the  holiday shopping season  as  consumer confidence 
ebbs ahead of the possible changes in tax rates and  government
spending .  “Inflation remains tame,” said  Gus Faucher , senior
economist at PNC Bank in Pittsburgh, who correctly forecast the
decline in prices. “It’s difficult for firms to raise prices in
the current environment.”  Today’s manufacturing data follows other reports pointing
to stabilization. Manufacturers projected they will invest more
next year than this year, according to results of the  Institute
for Supply Management ’s semiannual survey issued this week. A
proxy for  business spending , orders for capital equipment
excluding defense and aircraft rose 2.9 percent in October, the
biggest increase since February, Commerce Department data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  