-- Insurance Australia Sells U.K. Business, Flags Loss on Sale
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-12-14T05:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/insurance-australia-sells-u-k-business-flags-loss-on-sale-2-.html
Insurance Australia Group Ltd. (IAG) , the
Sydney-based insurer formed in 1925, has agreed to sell its U.K.
business and will take a charge on the sale.  The company will sell its Equity Red Star business to
private equity group Aquiline Capital Partners for 87 million
pounds ($140 million), it said today in a statement to the
Australian stock exchange. It will also sell its specialist
commercial broking unit, Independent Commercial Brokers, to a
consortium, it said, without giving a value for that sale.  Chief Executive Officer Mike Wilkins has been seeking to
offload the U.K. business in order to boost profits at home and
expand in Asia. IAG expects a  net loss  after tax of about A$240
million ($253 million) in the year ending June 30 from the U.K.
business, it said today.  “We believe the sale option delivers the best available
outcome for IAG shareholders, particularly in light of the
continuing challenging economic and industry conditions in the
U.K. market,” Wilkins said in the statement. “It also allows
us to concentrate on our strategic priorities of accelerating
profitable growth in our home territories of  Australia  and New
Zealand.”  IAG  shares  fell 1.9 percent to A$4.72 as of the close of
trading in Sydney, paring this year’s gain to 58 percent. That
compares with a 19 percent drop in the shares of rival  QBE
Insurance Group Ltd. (QBE)  and a 13 percent gain in the benchmark
 S&P/ASX 200 (AS51)  index.  Write Off  The sale of Equity Red Star is expected to close by the
middle of next year, and the company will make another
announcement about the commercial broking business, it said. It
will retain pension fund liabilities related to Equity Red Star
following the unit’s sale, it said.  IAG wrote off all remaining goodwill and intangible assets
in its U.K. business in the year ended June 30, citing
challenging economic and industry conditions there. It said in
October it expected a “modest” profit in its U.K. business in
fiscal 2013.  The group is investing about A$720 million in its Asian
operations, almost two-thirds of that in Malaysia and  Thailand ,
and the rest in  India ,  China  and  Vietnam , it said in July. The
Asian business is expected to see return on equity of more than
15 percent before costs by 2017, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  