-- Iraq Boom Hands Naimi 2013 Oil-Supply Challenge
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-12-14T17:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/iraq-boom-hands-naimi-2013-oil-supply-challenge.html
Iraq ’s biggest jump in oil
production since 1998 is increasing the burden on  Saudi Arabia 
to lower crude exports to prevent price declines next year.  The kingdom curbed crude output in November to a 13-month
low, according to OPEC. Iraq plans next year to pump as much as
it did when  Saddam Hussein  came to power three decades ago, its
oil minister said Dec. 9. Supply will also rise in  Libya  and
 Nigeria  while the U.S. experiences an oil shale bonanza.  “Saudi Arabia’s dilemma is that while it is the key OPEC
player willing to cut back oil production in order to sustain
prices at desired levels, it is also accommodating Iraq’s rising
output and market share,” said Julius Walker, global energy
markets strategist at UBS Securities LLC in New York.
“Ultimately, there will need to be an agreement between the two
as how to balance these ambitions.”  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali Al-Naimi  needs to keep
prices high enough to fund social spending plans without
incurring the wrath of consumers for hurting the global economy.
Iraq, now the second-biggest supplier in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, has a different priority: to
rebuild its industry after decades of war and sanctions.  Arab states are spending billions of dollars on housing and
local projects to allay popular unrest after uprisings toppled
leaders in Libya,  Egypt  and Tunisia and sparked a civil war in
Syria. Saudi Arabia has committed more than $600 billion in
social and infrastructure projects in coming years.  Iraq Surge  Iraq’s production surged 650,000 barrels a day this year to
3.35 million, the biggest annual gain in 14 years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, amid assistance from foreign  oil
companies  that are paid a fixed amount per barrel produced,
regardless of international  price levels .  The Middle Eastern state plans to boost output to an
average 3.7 million barrels a day in 2013 and at some point in
the year match the 1979 record of 3.8 million, Oil Minister
Abdul Kareem Al-Luaibi told reporters in Vienna on Dec. 9.  The nation has been free of strict OPEC quotas since 1998
and the resumption of any allocation is a “sovereign issue”
rather than a decision to be made by an organization, Falah al- Amri, Iraq’s governor on the OPEC board, said on Dec. 12.  Brent crude  traded as high as $109.48 a barrel today on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange. It may sink to $88 by June if OPEC
fails to rein back supply, according to  Leo Drollas , chief
economist at the London-based Centre for Global Energy Studies,
which was founded by former Saudi Oil Minister Sheikh Ahmad Zaki
Yamani in 1990.  Iran Sanctions  Saudi Arabia’s task will become more difficult should Iran
resolve its standoff with the international community over
nuclear research and resume pumping oil at normal rates.
Sanctions against the Islamic republic, once OPEC’s second-
biggest producer, have cut its exports by 50 percent, according
to the  International Energy Agency .  While acknowledging its output will exceed customer needs
in 2013, OPEC refrained from cutting its group target at a
meeting in Vienna two days ago, judging  prices  were high enough
for now. Iraq, Iran and Saudi Arabia also failed to agree on the
appointment of a new OPEC secretary-general, opting instead to
keep Abdalla El-Badri in the role for a further year.  Saudi Arabia reduced its output to 9.67 million barrels a
day last month, according to a monthly report from OPEC that
cited secondary sources for its data. In its own direct
communication to OPEC, the kingdom said November production was
even lower, at 9.49 million.  Minimum Level  The country can tolerate crude  oil prices  falling no lower
than about $90 a barrel, according to Jamie Webster, a
Singapore-based consultant at PFC Energy.  The CGES estimates that Saudi Arabia’s budget-balancing
price is $95 a barrel, more than $10 below current levels. Arab
Light, Saudi Arabia’s largest export grade, was at $107.22
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  National Commercial Bank , the nation’s largest lender by
assets, said in a Nov. 27 report that the kingdom’s budgeted oil
price for next year is $65.  Demand for OPEC’s crude will shrink to 29.7 million barrels
a day in 2013, the organization’s secretariat said in a
statement at the end of its meeting in Vienna. That’s 300,000
barrels a day less than its official target and 1.1 million a
day below November’s actual output, OPEC data show.  Iran Slump  Iranian oil production, which slumped to 2.65 million
barrels a day in October, the lowest level since February 1990,
may climb if a new government can come to an agreement with
Western nations, according to JBC Energy GmbH.  The country pumped as much as 6 million barrels a day in
the 1970s before the Islamic revolution, which was followed by
U.S. sanctions and the 1980-1988  Iran-Iraq War . Iran’s
insistence on atomic research led to a toughening of sanctions
this year, including an embargo by the European Union and
reduced insurance cover for supertankers carrying its oil. An
Iranian presidential vote is scheduled for June.  Libya, rebuilding its oil industry after last year’s
uprising against  Muammar Qaddafi , plans to raise output to 1.7
million barrels a day next year from about 1.5 million a day
this month, Oil Minister Abdulbari Al-Arusi said in Vienna.  Nigeria, Africa’s largest producer, expects output to reach
normal levels in the first quarter, Oil Minister Diezani Alison- Madueke said after the Vienna meeting. Output was hampered in
the past months by floods, theft and pipeline leaks that forced
several producers, including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI) , to halt pumping, curbing
national production by as much as 500,000 barrels a day.  Outside of OPEC, the U.S. is producing oil at the fastest
rate in almost two decades, using horizontal drilling and
hydraulic fracturing, known as fracking, to unlock shale
resources in North Dakota, Texas and Oklahoma. The nation pumped
6.85 million barrels a day in the week to Dec. 7, the most since
January 1994, and met 83 percent of its energy needs in the
first eight months of 2012, the Energy Department said.  Al-Naimi, Al-Luaibi and other OPEC ministers plan to meet
next on May 31, by which time the group will have a better
notion of how economic growth and supply are affecting 2013
prices.  OPEC has “rolled over the whole discussion you need to
have about the Iraqis, on how to bring in production,” PFC’s
Webster said in Vienna. “The timing of the discussion is going
to be dictated by the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in Vienna at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net 
Mark Shenk in Vienna at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  