-- Iraq Seeking Investors to Bolster Oil Export Pipeline Network
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-12-14T14:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/iraq-seeking-investors-to-bolster-oil-export-pipeline-network.html
Iraq is seeking investors to help
expand a network of oil pipelines that will enhance crude
exports from OPEC’s second-biggest producer.  The Arab nation is working on a new link from oilfields in
the south to the K3 pumping station at Haditha in the north, and
building pipelines to ports in  Jordan  and Syria, Deputy Oil
Minister Ahmad Shamaa said today in  London .  The government is seeking an unspecified amount of funding
for the project as it seeks to bolster production to 8 million
barrels a day by 2018 from 3.4 million barrels. The north-south
pipeline will have a capacity of 2.25 million barrels a day and
the pipeline from Haditha to Aqaba in Jordan will have a
capacity of 1 million barrels a day.  The timing of construction “depends on the response from
investors,” Shamaa said in an interview. The government hopes
to complete financial backing for the project by the end of next
year, he said. Plans include construction of a second export
pipeline through  Syria  with a capacity of 1 million barrels once
unrest in the neighboring country ends, he said.  Oil Minister Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi said Dec. 9 that the
pipeline to Jordan will include a capacity of about 150,000
barrels to the refinery in Zarqa. About 500,000 barrels would be
available to sell overseas, Shamaa said today.  The Iraqi oil ministry will own the pipeline from Basra to
Haditha in a so-called “engineer, procure and construct,” or
EPC, contract. The stretch from Haditha to Jordan will be owned
privately under a 20-year concession.  Building a pipeline to Syria can’t be discussed until civil
unrest in the country ends, Shamaa said.  Iraq began pumping crude through the “strategic pipeline”
from Basra to Haditha, used to serve refineries and power
generation facilities, al-Luaibi said.  The nation surpassed  Iran  to become the second-largest
producer in the  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries 
earlier this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  