-- Ireland to Push on With Cuts as Tensions Mount, Minister Says
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-12-14T12:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/ireland-to-push-on-with-cuts-as-tensions-mount-minister-says.html
Ireland will push on with spending
cuts and tax increases to narrow the deficit, Communications
Minister Pat Rabbitte said, condemning votes against the
measures by government lawmakers as “political narcissism.”  Chairman of the  Labour Party , the junior member in the
ruling coalition, Colm Keaveney faces expulsion from the
parliamentary party after voting against reducing benefits to
carers of disabled children or parents at home.  “There has always been a small sliver of opinion in the
Labour Party that is more suited to opposition and advocacy than
to government and making hard decisions,” said Rabbitte in an
interview with Dublin-based broadcaster RTE, today. “This is
not a time for political narcissism.”  Keaveney’s departure from Labour’s parliamentary group will
be the fifth since the party formed a coalition government with
Prime Minister  Enda Kenny ’s party last year. The government will
still control almost two thirds of the seats in the Irish
parliament even after Keaveney’s exit.  “I am not going to get involved in a Punch and Judy show
about personality clashes,” Keaveney said in comments aired by
RTE today. “We need an early conference to talk about the
direction of the Labour Party.”  Calculated Venom  Roisin Shortall, also a former parliamentary member of the
Labour Party, resigned from the government in September after  a
dispute with the country’s health minister. Shortall criticized
government leaders earlier this month for social welfare cuts
while leaving their own salaries unchanged.  “Some of the interventions I have seen in the last couple
of weeks, I haven’t seen that kind of calculated venom before,”
Rabbitte said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Athens at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  