-- Hirst Ends 17-Year Relationship With Gagosian Gallery
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a   a n d   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-12-14T19:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/hirst-ends-17-year-relationship-with-gagosian-gallery.html
The U.K.’s wealthiest living artist,
 Damien Hirst , has parted ways with the  Gagosian gallery , which
represented him for the past 17 years.  Hirst, 47, whose best-known work is a tiger shark suspended
in formaldehyde that billionaire hedge fund manager  Steve Cohen 
reportedly acquired for $12 million, had been a major money
maker for Gagosian.  “Damien Hirst has decided to cease working with Gagosian
Gallery worldwide,” Hirst’s company Science Ltd. said in an e-
mailed release. “Damien has had a fantastic and productive
working relationship with Gagosian Gallery, but after 17 years
of representing him Larry Gagosian and Damien have reached an
amicable decision to part company.”  All 11 Gagosian galleries presented his Spot paintings
earlier this year. The dealer has since opened a 12th branch, at
the Le Bourget private-jet airport north of Paris.  London ’s White Cube gallery said it will carry on
representing Hirst through its galleries in London,  Hong Kong 
and  Sao Paulo . Tim Marlow, the director of exhibitions at White
Cube, said on the telephone today: “We are working with him now
and will continue to represent him internationally in the
future.”  Science Ltd. would not respond to questions about who would
represent Hirst in the U.S.  Price Drop  Though Hirst’s prices have fallen recently -- only four of
his works sold for more than $1 million at auction this year,
and none above $2 million, according to Artnet -- his decision
to leave Gagosian will be keenly felt.  “Hirst is in the uppermost echelon of the contemporary art
canon, and high price or low, it’s a blow for the gallery,”
said Jehan Chu, an adviser who runs  Vermillion Art Collections 
in Hong Kong.  The news comes a week after  David Zwirner , a major  New York 
art dealer that recently opened a space in London, announced
that  Jeff Koons , another market star from Gagosian’s stable,
will have an exhibition in May in Zwirner’s New York Chelsea
gallery. A Gagosian spokeswoman confirmed that the gallery
continues to represent Koons.  A formal break like Hirst’s raises the question of who will
represent him in New York.  “Why would he commit to one dealer when he can have them
all?” said Alberto Mugrabi, whose family has supported the
Hirst market for years. “Any great gallery in New York would
love to do a show with Damien.”  No Talks  David Zwirner gallery spokeswoman Julia Joern said she
wasn’t aware of any talks between the artist and her gallery.  Mugrabi said his family’s commitment to the Hirst market
won’t be affected by the artist’s departure from Gagosian,
saying, “I will support his market until I am dead.” He said
the family owns “several hundred” pieces by Hirst.  This year,  Larry Gagosian  was accused in two lawsuits,
including one brought by billionaire Ron Perelman over a $4
million sculpture by Koons, of using his position in the art
world to negotiate secret deals, push clients around and
manipulate prices for contemporary works.  Both Gagosian Gallery and Gagosian have declined to comment
on the accusations. The gallery filed its own case against
Perelman but later dropped it and will defend itself in
Perelman’s suit.  This spring, Gagosian also lost John Good, a gallery
director of 13 years. Good left for Christie’s, where he is now
senior vice president and international director of postwar and
contemporary art.  “I am not worried about Mr. Gagosian,” Mugrabi said. “He
is still at the top, with or without Damien.”  Many Pills  Hirst’s works include a stainless steel and glass cabinet
filled with thousands of pills, cast in bronze and painted,
which sold for $19.2 million at a Sotheby’s auction in 2007.
That year, the average price for a Hirst lot at auction reached
a high of $931,000, according to Artnet.  A human skull, covered with platinum and diamonds and
entitled “For the Love of God,” was offered for sale in the
same year for 50 million pounds by  White Cube . It was bought by
a consortium including the artist himself and White Cube owner
Jay Jopling.  In 2008, Sotheby’s held an auction of more than 200 works
sold directly by the artist, beating the pre-sale estimates by
earning $200 million. For that year, Hirst’s works at auction
tallied $230.9 million, according to  Artprice.com .  Auction Sales  Hirst’s auction revenue dropped by 94 percent to $14.6
million in 2010, before rising to $25 million in 2011, the
latest year for which information is available on Artprice.  Almost a third of all Hirst lots offered at auction failed
to sell in 2011.  An arch-shaped butterfly canvas, “The Old Fool’s
Paradise,” (2006) that sold for $1 million at Sotheby’s in
November 2009 fetched only $770,500 at the auction in May.  The average lot price for Hirst in 2012 was $215,000,
according to Artnet.  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham ’s  podcast  and NYC
Weekend  Best .  -- With assistance from Farah Nayeri and Chris Dolmetsch.
Editors: Manuela Hoelterhoff, Zinta Lundborg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net  or  Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @frederikbalfour.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 