-- Israeli Foreign Minister Liberman to Resign After Fraud Charge
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   U d i   S e g a l
-- 2012-12-14T15:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/israeli-foreign-minister-liberman-to-resign-after-fraud-charge.html
Israel ’s Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman said he will resign in order to clear his name before
Jan. 22 elections after the attorney general decided to press
charges of fraud and breach of trust.  “After 16 years in which an investigation has been held
against me, I want to finish this quickly without any delay and
completely clear my name,” Liberman said in a text message to
journalists today.  Attorney General Yehuda Weinstein made his decision
yesterday, saying the foreign minister received confidential
information on a decade-long police investigation against him
from the former ambassador to Belarus, who pleaded guilty to the
charge in May, according to an e-mailed Justice Ministry
statement.  Liberman, 54, heads the second-largest party in Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s Likud-led coalition government and
struck an agreement with the prime minister to run on a joint
ticket in next month’s election. Netanyahu issued a statement by
text message yesterday congratulating Liberman on the reduced
charges and expressing the hope that he’d be acquitted.  “I know that I committed no crime,” Liberman said in the
statement, adding that he decided to resign to allow “the
citizens of Israel to go to the ballot box after this issue has
been determined, that is, with the legal ruling taken before the
elections so that I will be able to continue to serve the state
of Israel.”  Poll Lead  Liberman lives in a West Bank settlement and has been
outspoken about his policy disagreements with Netanyahu even
though they remain close political allies. He told the  United
Nations General Assembly  last year that he supported an
“intermediate” accord with the Palestinians at a time when the
prime minister was seeking to negotiate a final peace agreement.  The joint Likud list with Liberman’s Yisrael Beitenu party
was leading in three polls published today. It was set to win
between 35 and 38 seats compared with 17 to 20 for its closest
competitor, the  Labor party , according to the surveys.  Jonathan Spyer, a political scientist at the
Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya, said he didn’t think
Liberman’s resignation would affect the way the public will
vote, especially after his party merged with Likud.  “Most voters who would be voting for Likud Beitenu are
still likely to vote for them,” Spyer said in a phone
interview. “If it was just Yisrael Beitenu then it would be
hugely destructive, but given it is now part of a larger list
headed by Likud, there won’t be a huge fallout.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in  Jerusalem  at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Udi Segal in Jerusalem at  usegal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  