-- Lithuania Ex-Bank Inspector Suspected of Snoras Bankruptcy Role
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2012-12-14T14:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/lithuania-ex-bank-inspector-suspected-of-snoras-bankruptcy-role.html
The Lithuanian central bank’s former
head of bank supervision is suspected of helping Bankas Snoras
AB hide violations that led to the lender’s bankruptcy last
year, the General Prosecutor’s Office said.  An investigation of the bank’s demise produced evidence to
suspect Kazimieras Ramonas, former head of the Bank of
Lithuania’s Credit Institutions Supervision Department, of
covering up deficiencies and legal violations starting in 2009,
the office, in the capital Vilnius, said on its website today.  Ramonas, who previously said he neither knew about the
problems at Snoras nor had reason to suspect them, did not
respond to a call and a text message from a Bloomberg reporter
on his mobile phone.  Once Lithuania’s third-biggest bank by deposits, Snoras is
suing its former owners Vladimir Antonov and Raimondas Baranauskas in  London  for 492 million euros ($643 million) on
claims they forged documents and fixed accounts to siphon money
out of the bank. Both men deny the claims and are fighting them.
The Lithuanian government nationalized Snoras and declared it
insolvent on Nov. 16, 2011.  Ramonas’s actions and deliberate failures to act “allowed
Snoras to hide from the Bank of Lithuania the true ownership of
assets it held in foreign banks,” the Prosecutor’s Office said.
“That is why the threat of Snoras being insolvent was not
recognized in time.”  The central bank  fired  Ramonas on Nov. 30, 2011. The Third
District Court of Vilnius City on June 20 rejected his claim
that the dismissal was unlawful, according to a statement on its
website. The court ordered the Bank of Lithuania to remove the
word ’severe’ from the decree of dismissal, which originally
cited “a severe infringement of labor discipline.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  