-- Japan Tankan Business Confidence Falls to Near 3-Year Low
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-12-14T02:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/japan-tankan-business-confidence-falls-to-near-3-year-low-1-.html
Big Japanese manufacturers are the
most pessimistic in almost three years after a diplomatic
dispute with China and  Europe ’s austerity measures dragged
exports to a fifth monthly decline in October.  The quarterly Tankan index for large manufacturers fell to
minus 12 in December from minus 3 in September, the  Bank of
Japan (8301)  said in Tokyo today, a fifth straight negative reading and
the lowest since March 2010. The median estimate of 25
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for minus 10. A
negative figure means pessimists outnumber optimists.  The slide in sentiment gives the central bank an extra
reason to ease policy on Dec. 20 after the Federal Reserve moved
this week. JPMorgan Chase & Co. sees a 10-trillion yen ($120
billion) expansion of an asset-purchase program and the pressure
for further loosening is likely to mount if opposition leader
Shinzo Abe’s party wins an election in two days’ time.  “The focus is on whether the economy will show any
improvement after the election,” said  Hideo Kumano , chief
economist at Daiichi Life Research Institute who correctly
predicted today’s reading. “Given that exporters’ confidence
has weakened so much, calls for a cheaper yen will mount.”  At the next BOJ policy meeting, officials will also
consider an extension of currency-swap arrangements involving
the Fed, European Central Bank, and the central banks of  Canada ,
 England  and Switzerland, the Japanese central bank said last
night.  Yen’s Slide  The yen fell to a nine-month low against the dollar as
investors assess the possibility of more monetary stimulus if
Abe’s Liberal Democratic Party retakes power. The currency was
trading at 83.73 per dollar at 11:21 a.m., the lowest level
since March 21. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.2 percent,
breaking a two-day advance.  “If the BOJ opts to leave its monetary policy unchanged,”
the yen could move back into the 70s against the dollar,  Takuji Aida , Tokyo-based senior economist at UBS AG, wrote in a report
before the Tankan release.  A weaker yen reduces the price of Japanese products in
overseas markets and increases the value of repatriated earnings
for companies including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   Large manufacturers will probably grow less pessimistic
next quarter, with the outlook index in today’s Tankan at minus
10. Large companies from all industries plan to increase capital
spending 6.8 percent in the fiscal year through March 2013, up
0.4 percentage point from the September survey.  Economic Contraction  Japan ’s gross domestic product  shrank  an annualized 3.5
percent last quarter after a 0.1 percent decline in the previous
three-month period, meeting the textbook definition of a
recession. The territorial dispute with  China  is contributing to
Japan’s worst year for exports since the global recession in
2009.  Shipments fell 6.5 percent from a year earlier in October,
the fifth monthly decline. Exports to the European Union have
fallen every month since October 2011, as the region’s economy
fell into the second recession in four years last quarter.  Toyota’s sales in China fell 22 percent from a year earlier
in November, after a 44 percent drop in October and a 49 percent
decline in September, the biggest monthly drop in a decade.  Automakers turned pessimistic in December, today’s Tankan
showed, after government car subsidies ended. The industry’s
sentiment index fell to minus 9 in December, the lowest since
June 2011, from 19 in September. Sentiment is seen worsening to
minus 16 in the next survey.  Sony, Panasonic  Sony Corp.,  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and Sharp Corp. have announced
a total of more than 29,800 job cuts for the year ending March
31, while the government is poised to bail out chipmaker  Renesas
Electronics Corp. (6723)   While sentiment remains weak, rising machinery orders and
production in October suggest that economic conditions may be
improving. The weakening yen and signs of a pick-up in the U.S.
may help to boost corporate sentiment as Abe pledges “large-
scale” spending.  “The recession will be short and shallow,”   Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd, said
before the report.  The economy will shrink 0.4 percent in the fourth quarter
before growing 1.4 percent in the first three months of 2013,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The Fed on Dec. 12 said it would expand its asset-purchase
program by buying $45 billion a month of Treasury securities
starting in January, and for the first time linked the outlook
for its main interest rate to unemployment and inflation.  Large manufacturers forecast on average that the yen will
trade at 78.90 per dollar in the fiscal year through March,
according to today’s report.  The BOJ surveyed 10,654 companies from Nov. 13 to Dec. 13,
with a 99.3 percent response rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in  Tokyo  at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  