-- Japan Calls for Calm After China Plane Enters Disputed Airspace
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-12-14T04:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/japan-calls-for-calm-after-china-plane-enters-disputed-airspace.html
Japan  said it would respond calmly
after the first-ever incursion by a Chinese plane into Japanese-
controlled airspace near disputed islands ratcheted up tensions
days ahead of an election.  A Chinese marine surveillance propeller plane was spotted
by the Coast Guard near the uninhabited islands known as the
Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in  China . While Japan dispatched
eight F-15 fighter jets, the plane had already left the area and
China responded by calling the flight a normal activity in its
own airspace.  “We will react calmly to any situation,” Chief Cabinet
Secretary Osamu Fujimura told reporters today in  Tokyo . “But we
will respond firmly according to Japanese law in the event of
any breach of our sovereignty.” It was the first known
violation around the islands by a Chinese plane, the  Defense
Ministry  said.  The incident came three days before Japanese elections that
the opposition  Liberal Democratic Party , which has called for a
more assertive approach with China, is forecast to win. Prime
Minister Yoshihiko Noda’s purchase of the islands in September
sparked sometimes violent protests in China, damaging a $340
billion bilateral trade relationship and hurting Japanese
exporters like  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   “China is trying to strengthen its claim of control over
the area,” said Ikuo Kayahara, a retired major general in
Japan’s Self-Defense Forces and a visiting professor at
Takushoku University in Tokyo. “If you look at the trend, they
have escalated from fishery vessels to groups of marine
surveillance vessels, and increased the frequency with which
they enter Japanese waters. A plane adds another dimension.”  Potential Risks  Chinese vessels have entered Japanese-controlled waters
around the islands 17 times since Sept. 11 and have been warned
off by the Coast Guard. Under Japanese law, incursions by
aircraft require a response by the military, raising further
potential risks.  “What happens if Japan tries to force Chinese planes out
of our airspace and they do not comply?” Kayahara said. “That
might lead to a forced landing and something could go wrong.”  Japan called in China’s envoy yesterday to make an
“extremely severe protest” about the incident and an incursion
by four Chinese ships the same day. Chinese foreign ministry
spokesman Hong Lei told reporters yesterday in Beijing that
China’s activities were “completely normal.”  “China requires the Japanese side to stop illegal
activities in the waters and airspace of the Diaoyu islands,”
Hong said.  Polls show the LDP is likely to win the Dec. 16 election
for the lower house of parliament over Noda’s  Democratic Party 
of Japan. Party leader Shinzo Abe advocates increased defense
spending and stationing more police, coast guards and military
personnel around the country’s southwestern islands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  