-- Kazakh Sovereign Wealth Units May Borrow 1 Trillion Tenge
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-12-14T14:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/kazakh-sovereign-wealth-units-may-borrow-1-trillion-tenge.html
Companies owned by  Kazakhstan ’s
sovereign wealth fund, Samruk-Kazyna, may borrow 1 trillion
tenge ($6.6 billion) next year to fund investments and
acquisitions.  The companies plan to spend 2 trillion tenge on
transactions such as investment projects and stake purchases,
Nurlan Rakhmetov, the fund’s managing director, said yesterday
in a phone interview from the capital, Astana. Half will come
from debt and half from internal cash, he said.  Samruk-Kazyna’s units may raise debt internationally or at
home, Rakhmetov said, with energy producer KazMunaiGaz National
Co. poised to borrow $2.5 billion. The fund itself doesn’t plan
to borrow.  Samruk-Kazyna was created in 2008 by combining the agency
that managed the government’s stakes in companies with another
that focused on economic development. The fund and  its units ,
which operate in energy, mining, transport, banking and real
estate, have revenue equal to about a quarter of gross domestic
product, according to Rakhmetov.  The fund will analyze its companies’ accounts and financial
plans to determine the viability of lending within the group,
Rakhmetov said. Instead of keeping money on deposit at banks,
those with spare cash may be able to lend to other units “for
mutual benefit,” he said.  Private Equity  Samruk-Kazyna, which will get 15 percent of its units’
profits as dividends this year, plans to spend 73 billion tenge
on investments and dividends to the government in 2013,
Rakhmetov said.  Samruk-Kazyna Invest  will get 19 billion tenge
to create new enterprises capable of producing goods for the
fund’s other companies, he said.  “We want them to work like a  private equity  fund by
building such companies and later selling them to private
investors,” Rakhmetov said. “We take money from mature
companies and invest it in units with prospects.”  Samruk-Kazyna, which became a conduit to bail out banks in
2008, accounts for a third of corporate deposits in Kazakh
lenders, according to the fund’s  website . Kazakhstan’s 38 banks
had 5.4 trillion tenge of corporate deposits as of Nov. 1, the
central bank’s financial oversight committee said on its
website.  -- Editors: Andrew Langley,  Jeffrey Donovan   To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  