-- Kenya Shilling Drops Most in Three Weeks on Seasonal Imports
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-12-14T15:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/kenya-shilling-drops-most-in-three-weeks-on-seasonal-imports.html
Kenya ’s shilling weakened the most
in more than three weeks as importers bought dollars before the
year-end festivities.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy depreciated
0.3 percent to 86.10 a dollar, the biggest decline since Nov.
19, in Nairobi, the capital. The currency retreated less than
0.1 percent in the past five days.  Imports in Kenya rise during the Christmas and year-end
period as companies anticipate higher sales.  Nakumatt Holdings ,
the country’s biggest retail chain by outlets, expects to grow
its festive season sales by 17 percent from $150 million last
year, Atul Shah, the managing director, said in an e-mailed
statement on Dec 12.  “The shilling has weakened on increased dollar demand by
oil importers and retail businesses importing household goods
for sale ahead of the holidays,” Chris Muiga, a senior currency
dealer at Nairobi-based  Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB) , said by
phone. “The market is experiencing a front loading of dollars
before the festive season.”  The Central Bank of Kenya accepted 7 billion shillings ($81
million) of seven-day repurchase-agreements, a bank official,
who asked not to be identified in line with policy, said by
telephone.  The bank removed a record 17 billion shillings through the
seven day repurchase agreement yesterday, bringing the total
this week to 29 billion shillings, compared with 23.95 billion
shillings last week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The regular mop up of liquidity has provided support to
the shilling, which if it was not there would have weakened
strongly due to the dollar demand,” John Muli, a dealer at
Nairobi-based African Banking Corp., said on phone.  The Ugandan shilling gained 0.6 percent to 2,660 a dollar.
Tanzania’s shilling weakened less than 0.1 percent to 1,599 a
dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  