-- Kerry Senate Exit May Create Muddled Massachusetts Race
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-12-14T18:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/kerry-senate-exit-may-create-muddled-massachusetts-race.html
Multiple Democrats in Massachusetts
probably would seek to replace U.S. Senator  John Kerry , should
he succeed  Hillary Clinton  as secretary of state, a scenario
that would complicate the party’s effort to hold the seat.  The candidates would battle each other during a short and
divisive primary that would precede a special election, said
Peter Ubertaccio, director of Martin Institute at Stonehill
College in Easton, Massachusetts. By contrast, Republicans are
likely to quickly settle on a well-known contender:  Scott Brown ,
who lost his U.S. Senate seat to Democrat  Elizabeth Warren  last
month, he said.  “If there’s anything that could help resurrect Brown, it’s
the  Democratic Party ,” said Ubertaccio, who teaches American
government at the college. “If it’s a crowded primary field
that brings everybody down.”  Kerry, 69, chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, has
become the leading contender to replace Clinton after  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the  United Nations , said in a
letter released by the White House yesterday that she was
withdrawing from consideration for the post. A decision by
President  Barack Obama  to nominate Kerry may come next week,
according to two administration officials who asked for
anonymity to discuss personnel.  The Democratic Party won’t again take for granted its
advantage in voter registration in Massachusetts against
Republicans after Brown’s 2010 victory in a special election,
said Mary Anne Marsh, a Democratic consultant with the Dewey
Square Group in Boston.  Adequate Resources  “It’s not going to be the same as the last special
election when a lot of people were asleep at the switch,” she
said. “That means making sure your candidate has all the
resources to wage and win a six-week election, whenever it may
be.”  The only clear frontrunner among Democrats in a potential
Senate race is Massachusetts Governor  Deval Patrick , Ubertaccio
said. Patrick, though, has repeatedly said he will serve out his
second term, which ends in 2014.  “I’ve got the only job in politics I want,” he told
reporters in Boston today when asked about running for the
Senate in a special election.  Possible Contenders  Potential Democratic candidates for Kerry’s seat could
include members of the state’s House delegation, particularly
those from the Boston area, including Mike Capuano, Ed Markey,
Stephen Lynch and Bill Keating, Ubertaccio said. None of them
would have to resign their seats to run in a special election,
he said.  Marsh added to the list Ben Downing, a state senator from
Western Massachusetts. Voters have a history of favoring fresh
faces such as his, she said, pointing to the victories of Brown,
Warren and Patrick as evidence.  A special election would benefit Brown because those
contests typically attract fewer Democratic voters than
regularly scheduled elections, said David Paleologos, who
directs Suffolk University’s polling institute in Boston.  When a senator resigns, Massachusetts law calls for the
governor to appoint a temporary replacement until a special
election is held, which must occur between 145 to 160 days
following the vacancy. In 2009, Patrick appointed Paul Kirk
after U.S. Senator  Edward Kennedy  died in August of that year.
Kirk didn’t run for the seat and Brown beat Democrat  Martha Coakley  in the January 2010 special election.  Deval said today that should Kerry give up his seat, he
would again appoint an interim replacement who wouldn’t run in
the special election. “I expect to do the same thing I
did last time,” he said.  Warren, a Harvard University professor, defeated Brown 54
percent to 46 percent. In the new congressional session that
convenes in early January, Democrats will control 55 seats in
the Senate to 45 for the Republicans.  Kerry, 69, first won his seat in 1984 and won his last re-
election race, in 2008, with 66 percent of the vote. He lost the
2004 presidential election to incumbent  George W. Bush .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net ,
Esmé E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  