-- Kim Jong Un Says N. Korea Needs More Satellites to Boost Economy
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2012-12-14T01:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/kim-jong-un-says-n-korea-needs-more-satellites-to-boost-economy.html
North Korea ’s leader Kim Jong Un
said more satellite launches are needed to help develop the
nation’s economy and technology industry, the official Korean
Central News Agency reported.  Kim visited the control center and gave the launch order
for a long-range rocket that placed a satellite into orbit on
Dec. 12, KCNA reported. The totalitarian regime’s use of
ballistic-missile technology was unanimously condemned by the
 United Nations Security Council .  “Kim Jong Un expressed great satisfaction over the
successful launch of the satellite by our scientists and
technicians and highly estimated their feats,” KCNA said. “He
stressed the need to continue to launch satellites in the
future, too, to develop the country’s science, technology and
economy.”  Further launches will add to rising regional tension in
East Asia, where Japan,  China  and  South Korea  are embroiled in
disputes over island ownership that have disrupted trade. South
Korea holds its presidential election next week, while voters in
Japan are forecast to favor Shinzo Abe, who has pledged to boost
military spending, as the next prime minister in elections on
Dec. 16.  The Obama administration denounced the rocket test earlier
this week, with National Security Council spokesman Tommy Vietor
calling it “a highly provocative act” that jeopardizes
regional security.  Missile Program  North Korea’s missile program is now on a par with what the
U.S. and the Soviet Union achieved in the 1950s, according to
David Maxwell, the associate director of the Center for Security
Studies at  Georgetown University  in Washington. It’s unclear
whether the regime is able yet to miniaturize a nuclear weapon
to fit it on a missile, Maxwell said.  A failed rocket test in April led the U.S. to cancel a food
aid program to North Korea, where two-thirds of the population
suffer from chronic malnutrition. Kim, who succeeded his father
 Kim Jong Il  a year ago, has also shown no readiness to respond
to calls from the U.S., China, South Korea, Japan and  Russia  to
return to six-party talks aimed at getting the regime to abandon
its nuclear program.  The UN Security Council unanimously condemned North Korea’s
rocket launch, calling it a “clear violation” of UN
prohibitions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  