-- Korean Won Leads Gains in Asia on Fed, China Boost; Yuan Weakens
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-12-14T08:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/korean-won-leads-gains-in-asia-on-fed-china-boost-yuan-weakens.html
South  Korea ’s won rallied for a
fourth week, leading gains among Asian currencies, after the
Federal Reserve expanded its monetary stimulus and Chinese data
signaled an economic recovery is strengthening.  The won completed its biggest weekly advance in two months
as exchange data showed foreign investors bought $1.2 billion
more local stocks than they sold this week through yesterday,
the most among markets outside Japan tracked by Bloomberg. The
Fed said on Dec. 12 it will buy $45 billion a month of
Treasuries starting in January, in addition to $40 billion a
month of existing mortgage-debt purchases.  “Asian currencies are strengthening as the region is
likely to receive more foreign funds after the Fed’s move,”
said Lee Jin Ill, a Seoul-based currency dealer at Hana Bank.
“What’s on the mind of traders in Korea is that the government
may roll out more restrictive measures to slow the pace of the
won’s gain.”  The won appreciated 0.6 percent this week to 1,074.68 per
dollar in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 India ’s rupee gained 0.2 percent to 54.343,  Taiwan ’s dollar
advanced 0.1 percent NT$29.102 and  Thailand ’s baht climbed 0.1
percent 30.65 against the U.S. currency.  Investors plowed more than $2 billion into stock markets in
India,  Indonesia , Taiwan and Thailand this week.  ‘Risk-On Sentiment’  “Market sentiment has been risk-on this week as the Fed is
going to print more money,” said Albert Lee, a fixed-income
trader in Taipei at Cathay United Bank Co.  India’s rupee traded near a one-week high after a
government report today showed inflation eased to 7.24 percent
in November from 7.45 percent a month earlier. Factory output
rebounded in October, a report on Dec. 12 showed.  “With the easing of inflation, there is clearly scope for
the Reserve Bank of India to support growth,” said Vivek
Rajpal, a strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Mumbai. “It is
only a matter of time before they cut interest rates.”  China’s  yuan  extended a decline from a 19-year high on
speculation authorities intervened to curb its gains after
factory output and consumer spending climbed.  Government reports on Dec. 9 showed China’s industrial
production and retail sales in November recorded their biggest
gain since March, while exports growth slowed to 2.9 percent
from 11.6 percent. China including Hong Kong is the biggest
export market for South Korea, Malaysia and Taiwan.  The yuan fell for a third week, losing 0.2 percent to
6.2415 versus the dollar. It has weakened 0.3 percent from a 19-
year high of 6.2223 on Nov. 27.  “We’re hearing a lot of implicit messages from the Chinese
authorities that they aren’t looking for rapid appreciation,”
said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist at  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  in  Singapore . “The last reading for Chinese export growth
wasn’t that great.”  South Korea announced last month more restrictions on the
amount of currency forward positions banks are allowed to hold
as exchange-rate appreciation threatens exports. The  Philippines 
is also mulling curbs.  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah weakened 0.4 percent to 9,695
and the Philippine peso fell 0.4 percent to 41.090, the most in
a month. Malaysia’s ringgit gained 0.1 percent from a week ago
to 3.0543 per dollar while the Vietnamese dong was little
changed at 20,848.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  