-- South Korean Won Completes Best Week in Two Months on Fed
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-12-14T06:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/korean-won-set-for-best-week-in-3-months-on-fed-stimulus.html
South Korea ’s won completed its
biggest weekly gain in two months on bets global investors will
favor the nation’s assets as the  Federal Reserve  expands asset
purchases that boost the supply of dollars. Bonds fell.  The Fed said this week it will buy $45 billion a month of
 Treasury securities  starting in January, in addition to $40
billion a month of existing mortgage-debt purchases. Gains were
limited after Vice Finance Minister Shin Je Yoon said Dec. 11
the government is concerned about herd behavior in won trading,
and moves in “one direction” will be the most important factor
in making a decision on whether to tighten the management of
capital flows.  “Asian currencies are strengthening as the region is
likely to receive more foreign funds after the Fed’s move,”
said Lee Jin Ill, a Seoul-based currency dealer at Hana Bank.
“What’s on the mind of traders in  Korea  is that the government
may roll out more restrictive measures to slow the pace of the
won’s gain.”  The won climbed 0.6 percent this week to 1,074.68 per
dollar in  Seoul , the most since the week ended Oct. 19,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency fell 0.15
percent today. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in exchange rates used to price options, fell
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.75 percent
this week and was little changed today.  Tighter Restrictions  South Korean authorities announced last month a tightening
of restrictions on the amount of currency forward positions
banks are allowed to hold as won gains threaten exports. From
Jan. 1, transactions at branches of overseas lenders will be
capped at 150 percent of equity, compared with 200 percent
currently, according to a statement on Nov. 27 from the  Finance
Ministry ,  Bank of Korea  and the Financial Services Commission.
The ceiling for domestic banks will be cut to 30 percent from 40
percent.  The yield on the government’s 2.75 percent bonds due
September 2017 rose seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point
this week, to 3.0 percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. The
one-year interest-rate swap increased six basis points from Dec.
7 to 2.81 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  