-- KPN Scraps Dividend to Finance Purchase of Web Spectrum
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-12-14T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/kpn-scraps-dividend-to-finance-purchase-of-web-spectrum.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the Dutch phone
company partly owned by Carlos Slim’s  America Movil SAB (AMX) , cut its
dividend as it spent 1.35 billion euros ($1.8 billion) to buy
frequencies for faster mobile networks.  KPN will not pay a final dividend for 2012, after its 12-
cent interim dividend, and 3 cents per share for 2013, the
company said yesterday in a statement. That compares with a
previous plan to pay 35 cents a share for this year and at least
the same amount for next year. KPN also sold its Spanish Simyo
operator to  France Telecom SA (FTE)  to raise cash.  Faster networks are key for carriers as consumers flock to
smartphones such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and handsets based on
Google Inc.’s Android system to download music, watch videos
online and surf the Web. KPN joins European peers including
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , Telefonica SA and  France Telecom  that have
slashed or completely scrapped their dividend plans as a result
of rising spectrum investments and declining phone revenue amid
the region’s debt crisis.  “That’s the cost of staying in business for KPN,” said
Ulrich Rathe, an analyst at Jefferies International Ltd., who
projects the Dutch company’s shares will underperform its peers.
“The price is higher than we expected, but the dividend cut
reflects underlying balance sheets issues as well.”  New Services  The Dutch government said it raised 3.8 billion euros from
the spectrum auction, with Vodafone, Deutsche Telekom’s T-Mobile
unit and Tele 2 also buying frequencies.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  paid
1.4 billion euros and T-Mobile paid 911 million euros, according
to the government.  “It’s a considerable investment, but we look ahead and not
back,” KPN Chief Executive Officer Eelco Blok said on a
conference call, adding that the Dutch auction was more
expensive compared to other European markets. “I’m incredibly
glad that we’ve gotten these frequencies.”  The company, based in The Hague, plans to introduce faster
mobile services based on so-called long-term evolution
technology in February and achieve countrywide coverage by the
second half of 2014. The dividend cut will save the company 800
million euros, Blok said.  Blok, who in October reported a 32 percent drop in third-
quarter profit, has also accelerated job cuts and plans to
eliminate as many as 5,000 positions in the Netherlands by the
end of 2013. KPN already had cut its 2012 dividend in July to 35
cents a share from previously 90 cents a share.  KPN yesterday reiterated its 2012 forecast for earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and ammortization, cash
flow and investments.  Lower Rating  Before the company said it would scrap its dividend, the
stock dropped 1 percent to 4.63 euros in Amsterdam yesterday,
giving the company a market value of 6.6 billion euros. On Nov.
15, KPN had dropped to the lowest price in 10 years after
Sanford C. Bernstein cut its recommendation on the stock and
Blok said he may temporarily accept a lower  credit rating  as he
assesses options and need for investments.  KPN’s debt is rated BBB by  Standard & Poor’s , the second-
lowest investment grade, and an equivalent Baa2 by Moody’s
Investors Service.  France Telecom’s local unit said it will have more than
12.2 million mobile phone customers after adding Simyo’s 380,000
customers, based on September data. No financial details of the
deal were given.  Last month, KPN agreed to sell part of its German mobile-
phone towers business to American Tower Corp. for 393 million
euros in cash.  Failed Deals  Earlier this year, KPN tried unsuccessfully to sell Belgian
mobile-phone unit Base and ended discussions on a potential
merger involving its German E-Plus wireless unit and
Telefonica’s business in  Germany .  Blok said in October that KPN is in talks with investor
 America Movil  to shape cooperation efforts after  Carlos Slim ’s
wireless carrier obtained more than a quarter of the Dutch
telecom operator’s shares in an unsolicited bid.  Slim, the world’s richest man, has expanded America Movil
into Europe to take advantage of phone company valuations that
have fallen during the euro-region crisis. The Mexican company
said it bought 28 percent of KPN in June, the same month it
purchased a stake in  Telekom Austria AG. (TKA)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  