-- Naira Retreats for First Week in Four on Seasonal Dollar Demand
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-12-14T15:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/naira-heads-for-worst-week-in-four-on-seasonal-dollar-demand.html
The naira retreated for the first
week in four on increased demand for dollars from importers in
 Nigeria  preparing for the festive season.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer fell as much
as 0.1 percent, before trading less than 0.1 percent higher at
157.65 a dollar as of 3:43 p.m. in Lagos, the commercial
capital. The naira has declined 0.5 percent this week, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  There is “increased demand as people are planning for
Christmas,” Babatunde Obaniyi, head of market risk at Lagos-
based Greenwich Trust Group Ltd., said by phone today. “We will
see the height of demand next week.”  Demand for  consumer goods  rises during religious
festivities in Nigeria, where the population of more than 160
million is almost evenly split between Muslims and Christians.
The  Central Bank  of Nigeria sells dollars to lenders at foreign-
currency auctions on Mondays and Wednesdays to help manage the
 exchange rate . The regulator sold $246.05 million at this week’s
sales, the most in two weeks. The Abuja-based bank will end this
year’s sales on Dec. 19 and resume on Jan. 7, it said in an e-
mailed statement today.  The naira has appreciated 2.9 percent this year, the
second-best performer in Africa. The currency has benefited from
tight monetary conditions, improved supply of foreign exchange
to the market by  oil companies  and increased inflows from
portfolio investors, central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said
Nov. 20 after the regulator held its benchmark rate at a record-
high 12 percent.  Yields on 10-year naira debt fell one basis point to 11.88
percent, according to yesterday’s prices compiled on the
Financial Markets Dealers Association website. Borrowing costs
on the nation’s $500 million of Eurobonds due January 2021
declined two basis points to 4.14 percent today. The yields have
dropped six basis points this week.  Ghana ’s cedi climbed less than 0.1 percent to 1.8905 per
dollar in Accra, the capital, leaving it little changed in the
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  