-- National Bank’s Allure Fades as Lending Hits Zenith
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-12-14T21:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/national-bank-s-allure-fades-as-lending-hits-zenith.html
National Bank of Canada  generated
the best risk-adjusted returns among Canadian banks through the
global financial crisis by focusing on its home market. Some
analysts say that strategy is now working against the bank.  National Bank’s stock rose 2.6 percent in the five years
through today after adjusting for price swings, the top among
Canada’s eight-biggest banks, according to a Bloomberg Riskless
Return ranking. The lender, based in  Montreal , had the highest
total return among its peers at 81 percent and less volatility
than larger peers  Royal Bank of Canada  and Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce.  The bank, which operates mostly in  Quebec , outperformed
larger Canadian lenders which expanded in the U.S.,  Europe ,
 Latin America  and  Asia  over that period. The domestic
concentration sheltered the lender from the turmoil of the U.S.
subprime mortgage collapse and financial upheaval as well as
Europe’s debt crisis.  “Canadian retail banking may have hit its zenith in terms
of earnings growth,”  John Aiken , an analyst with Barclays Plc,
said in an interview. “If we’re going to look at some of the
other banks that have access to broader global business lines,
National’s performance may not be top-of-class going forward.”  Standard & Poor’s yesterday lowered issuer credit ratings
on six Canadian lenders including National Bank and  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS)  by one level as they face “incremental pressure from
headwinds facing the Canadian economy.”  Shares Rose  National Bank shares  fell  0.1 percent to C$76.87 at 4 p.m.
in Toronto. The stock has risen 6.6 percent this year, compared
to the 11 percent return of the S&P/TSX Financials Index.  National Bank’s risk-adjusted return over five years was
almost double that of Quebec competitor  Laurentian Bank of
Canada , the second-best performer with a return of 1.5 percent,
and twice the 1.3 percent return of Royal Bank, the country’s
largest lender, according to the Bloomberg ranking. National
Bank also outperformed CIBC, the Toronto-based lender that
sought to reduce risk after taking more writedowns in the
financial crisis than any of its Canadian peers.  “Our presence in  Canada  as a super-regional bank has
allowed us to keep better results and avoid the more risky
areas,” said Jean Dagenais, National’s senior vice president,
finance and taxation. “People saw in the bank stock some kind
of a refuge, a pure Canadian play.”  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Return Fades  National Bank’s performance when considering price swings
has faded in the past 12 months relative to its competitors. The
Quebec lender’s one-year risk-adjusted return was 1.3 percent,
below the 1.7 percent returns of CIBC and Royal Bank, and Bank
of  Nova Scotia ’s 1.6 percent performance.  The bank benefited from strong economic performance in
Quebec, Canada’s second-largest economy, compared with other
provinces. Since the end of 2007, Quebec’s economy has grown by
4.9 percent, more than three times the 1.5 percent expansion in
Ontario and the 4.4 percent growth in British Columbia,
according to  Statistics Canada .  ‘Loyal Customers’  “They have very loyal customers in Quebec,” said David Baskin, president of Toronto-based Baskin Financial Services,
which manages about C$450 million including National Bank
shares. “That customer loyalty makes for a less competitive
environment in Quebec, which obviously leads to higher margins
and better profits.”  National has had missteps. The bank recorded more than
C$1.1 billion of writedowns over two years after the August 2007
collapse of Canada’s market for non-bank administered asset-
backed commercial paper. National took the costs after buying
back about C$2 billion in frozen short-term debt from its
clients.  Still, National took fewer writedowns than its larger
Canadian lenders during the U.S. subprime collapse in 2008 and
subsequent financial crisis. It was the first Canadian lender to
raise its dividend in 2010, ending a three-year payout freeze.  “They haven’t blown their brains out doing stupid things
in the  United States ,” Baskin said. “They have less  currency
risk  than the other banks, which also helps. That may tend to
reduce the volatility of their earnings a little bit.”  World’s Soundest  Canadian lenders have been ranked the world’s soundest for
the past five years by the Geneva-based  World Economic Forum .
The eight-biggest banks have outperformed Canada’s benchmark
S&P/TSX Composite Index, which has been almost unchanged over
five years when accounting for volatility.  Canada’s eight-bank  S&P/TSX Commercial Banks Index (STCBNK)  returned
1.4 percent on a risk-adjusted basis, outperforming the 0.7
percent decline of the 24-company KBW Bank Index in the U.S. on
that basis.  In spite of its returns, National’s stock is the cheapest
of Canada’s six-larger banks based on a ratio of its share price
to earnings potential in the next 12 months.  “One of the perennial knocks on National’s valuation has
been its outsized contribution from  capital markets ,” Aiken
said. “When you take a look at the earnings performance of
National, it’s actually been very steady. What you get is
reasonably strong growth with a more stable valuation
multiple.”  Capital Markets  National Bank generated 31 percent of its revenue from
financial markets, which includes its investment bank, in the
fiscal year ended Oct. 31, more than any other Canadian lender.
In comparison, Royal Bank, which has  investment-banking 
operations in the U.S., Europe and Asia, gets 21 percent of
revenue from capital markets.  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  gets 23 percent
of revenue from investment banking.  “The financial markets are volatile, but we are less
volatile than the others,” Chief Financial Officer Ghislain Parent said in a telephone interview. “We’re trading and client
driven.”  National’s track record isn’t enough to convince money
managers such as Caldwell Securities Ltd.’s  John Kinsey  to
invest in the stock.  “They have done well, it’s just that it’s more of a
regional bank,” Kinsey said in a Nov. 26 interview in Toronto.
“With the top five banks, that’s enough for us. You can’t kiss
all the girls.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  