-- New York Subway Plotter’s Cousin Sentenced to 40 Months
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-12-14T21:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/new-york-city-subway-bomb-plot-defendant-gets-40-months.html
A cousin of a man who pleaded guilty
in 2010 to helping mastermind a plot to bomb  New York  City’s
subways was sentenced to 40 months in prison.  Amanullah Zazi, 25, was sentenced today by U.S. District
Judge Raymond Dearie in Brooklyn, New York. Zazi pleaded guilty
in January 2010 to conspiring to obstruct justice and aiding and
abetting others in receiving military-type training from al-
Qaeda.  Zazi’s cousin, Najibullah Zazi, pleaded guilty in February
2010 to supporting al-Qaeda and conspiring to use a weapon of
mass destruction in a 2009 plot to detonate bombs on New York
subways around the anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks. He is scheduled to be sentenced in September.  Dearie said the sentencing was difficult given Amanullah
Zazi’s “very serious” crimes and his cooperation with
investigators. Assistant U.S. Attorney James P. Loonam said Zazi
should be given credit for his help, which “had a direct effect
on the national security of the  United States .”  Hushed Apology  “I’m sorry,” Zazi said during a brief, hushed statement
to the judge before sentencing. He faced as much as 30 years on
the two charges. A citizen of  Afghanistan , he will be deported
to that country after completing his sentence.  Amanullah Zazi testified during the trial of his uncle,
Mohammed Wali Zazi, who was convicted in July 2011 of destroying
evidence and conspiring to lie to investigators in the case of
his son, Najibullah Zazi. Mohammed Wali Zazi was sentenced in
February to 4 1/2 years in prison.  Amanullah Zazi testified that he went to a relative’s home
in  Colorado  at his uncle’s direction to help get rid of bomb-
making materials that his cousin had left in a garage, including
glasses, masks, liquid chemicals and containers.  After arranging to meet other family members by using
“pick up the medicine” as a code phrase for destroying bomb-
making chemicals, Amanullah said, he watched two other family
members dispose of chemicals from the garage in an upstairs
bathroom as the odor of bleach filled the home.  Tossing Equipment  Amanullah said it was his idea to dispose of some of the
equipment in a dumpster by putting it in a book bag, driving
around and shopping to distract anyone monitoring them from the
disposal.  Zazi admitted helping his cousin and others into an al-
Qaeda training camp in  Pakistan ’s Waziristan region in September
2008, according to a court filing. Zazi wasn’t interested in
training with the terrorist group because he knew they would
look unfavorably on his drinking and hash smoking, Loonam said.  Zazi didn’t know the specifics of any plot, and his motives
for committing the crimes “were not jihadist in nature,”
Loonam said. His cooperation helped lead to his uncle’s
conviction and the guilty pleas of his cousin and a co-
conspirator in the bomb plot, Zarein Ahmedzay.  2010 Plea  Ahmedzay in April 2010 admitted conspiring with Najibullah
Zazi to conduct suicide bombings on New York’s subways.  The two men testified against a co-conspirator, Adis
Medunjanin, who was convicted in May of nine charges associated
with the would-be bombing and sentenced to life in prison last
month. Ahmedzay is scheduled to be sentenced in May.  The case is U.S. v. Zazi, 1:10-cr-00013, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 