-- News Corp. Settled 22 More U.K. Tabloid Phone-Hacking Cases
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-12-14T16:21:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/news-corp-settled-22-more-u-k-tabloid-phone-hacking-cases-1-.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. publishing unit
settled 22 more lawsuits over phone hacking by journalists at
the now-defunct News of the World tabloid as the company seeks
to avoid a group civil trial next year.  The confidential accords were described in a London court
today by Hugh Tomlinson, a lawyer for more than 150 victims. The
sides must now select seven or eight lead cases for trial,
including “famous and non-famous” people, to help determine a
range of damages, Judge Geoffrey Vos said at the hearing.  “There remains a need to have people from different walks
of life” represented in the lead cases, Vos said. While all the
victims had their privacy violated, celebrities who voluntarily
lived in the public eye may be treated differently than
individuals who led strictly private lives, he said.  British actor Hugh Grant, who hasn’t settled, is among the
victims who sued over claims their mobile-phone voice mail was
intercepted by journalists seeking private information. The
Metropolitan Police Service has given many of the victims
evidence to back their cases, including notes by  Glenn Mulcaire ,
the tabloid’s private investigator arrested in 2006.  The settlements announced today were made with victims
including Jeff Brazier, a U.K. soccer player who became a
reality-television star; Jamie Theakston, a TV and radio
presenter in Britain; and Colin Stagg, who was wrongly accused
of murder in 1992 and later became the subject of tabloid news
coverage, even after he was cleared.  News Corp. Chairman Rupert Murdoch closed the newspaper
last year in response to the scandal. More than 70 civil
lawsuits were settled by February, resulting in the cancellation
of a trial scheduled for that month.  More than 80 people have been arrested in relation to
wrongdoing at News Corp.’s U.K. operation, including Rebekah Brooks, its former chief executive officer. Brooks is among
eight former News Corp. journalists charged in July with
conspiring to hack the phones of more than 600 people between
2000 and 2006. A criminal trial is scheduled for September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  