-- Nigeria Policemen Held Over Kidnap of Minister’s Mother
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-12-14T08:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/nigeria-policemen-held-over-kidnap-of-minister-s-mother.html
Nigeria ’s army arrested 63 people
linked to the kidnapping of the mother of Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala after a raid in the town where she was seized, a
military spokeswoman said.  “We’re interrogating them to know their level of
involvement,” Rose Managbe, a spokeswoman for the Nigerian
army, said by phone late yesterday from the southern commercial
hub of Onitsha.  Two police officers were also detained for alleged
negligence in the abduction of Kaneme Okonjo, 82, who was seized
from her home in the town of Ogwasi-Ukwu, in southern Delta
state, on Dec. 9.  “They were not arrested for the kidnap,” Charles Muka,
police spokesman in Delta state, said today by phone from the
capital, Asaba. “They were supposed to be on duty at the
palace, but they were not there at the time the kidnappers
struck. We’re dealing with them departmentally.”  Okonjo-Iweala, who became finance minister for the second
time in August 2011, has worked to reverse expansionary budgets
and backed President  Goodluck Jonathan ’s move to cut a subsidy
on gasoline in January. Under her tenure, the ministry also
rejected unverified subsidy claims by gasoline importers.  Muka declined to say whether the kidnappers had made
contact with the family and said the police aren’t aware of any
ransom demand. Lagos-based Vanguard newspaper reported that the
kidnappers said they wanted 200 million naira ($1.3 million),
citing an unidentified security official.  Attacks by armed groups, including abductions of foreigners
working for  oil companies , cut more than 28 percent of  output  in
 Africa ’s top crude producer from 2006 to 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The violence subsided after a government
amnesty program in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  