-- Nobel Prize Winner Nurse Builds Lab to Culture U.K. Scientists
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2012-12-14T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/nobel-prize-winner-nurse-builds-lab-to-culture-u-k-scientists.html
When the Francis Crick Institute
opens next to  London ’s St. Pancras station in 2015, Nobelist
Paul Nurse expects its labs won’t only grow bacteria, mold or
stem cells. They will also grow science talent.  “As soon as someone becomes a star, universities do
everything to hold on to them,” says Nurse, a 2001  Nobel Prize 
winner in physiology or medicine for work on cell cycle
regulation and a former president of Rockefeller University in
 New York . “As soon as we have a star, we will do everything to
get rid of them.”  Nurse is leading a four-year effort to build the facility
at a cost of 600 million pounds ($962 million). At 1 million
square feet and with as many as 1,500 employees, including 1,250
scientists, he says the Crick Institute will become  Europe ’s
largest science research center in one building.  His ambition is for the eight-story  Crick Institute  to
rival the U.S.’s  Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory , where DNA’s
helical structure was first revealed to the public by James D. Watson, Francis Crick’s research partner, in 1953, or  France ’s
 Pasteur Institute , where the HIV virus that causes AIDS was
first isolated in 1983.  “This can become a very attractive place, a magnet for
international recruitment,” said Nurse, who still oversees a
research lab and serves as president of the  Royal Society , a
position once held by  Isaac Newton . “We will very rapidly turn
into the same type of location as these other international
institutions.”  Youth Pursuit  Located at a transportation crossroads, the Crick site is
near research centers and hospitals, with rail links to Oxford,
Cambridge and Paris. It is within two hours by train from a
majority of the U.K.’s population, Nurse says.  The institute will combine scientists from the  National
Institute for Medical Research  in north London and  Cancer
Research  UK’s  London Research Institute  in central London. It
will also train scientists from about age 30, who will stay 10
to 12 years.  “I want to go for youth,” says Nurse, 63, who did his
Nobel Prize work before he turned 40. “We don’t give enough
freedom to young people. They are often at their most creative
at this point.”  Global Distribution  The institute will focus on research into cancer,  heart
disease , stroke, infection and neurological diseases and turning
scientific discoveries into treatments. In the journal  The
Lancet  on May 19, editor  Richard Horton  quoted unidentified
senior researchers as criticizing the Crick Institute for
lacking a “scientific strategy” and potentially drawing talent
away from other institutions.  Nurse, who replied with an 80-page document explaining the
institute’s strategy, says Horton “got it completely wrong.”
Rather than poach the country’s best and brightest scientific
minds, Nurse says the center will send them out.  “They will go around the world but we will see a
significant number stay here in the U.K.,” he says.  Nurse has top researchers behind him. Mark Walport,
director of the  Wellcome Trust , the world’s second largest
biomedical charity after the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation ,
says Horton wrote “nonsense.”  “There’s a very strong vision,” Walport, who becomes the
U.K. government’s chief scientific officer on April 1, said in
an interview.  Horton declined to comment further, Lancet spokeswoman
Daisy Barton said.  Drug Dispute  Drugmakers are disputing how much the U.K. government pays
for prescription products used by the state-operated  National
Health Service . Through their trade group, the  Association of
British Pharmaceutical Industry , they say investment in research
and development in the U.K. may decline unless the nation’s
health system buys new medicines they discover and produce.  The U.K. government-funded  Medical Research Council  is
paying 300 million pounds of the Crick’s construction costs,
Wellcome is providing 120 million pounds and Cancer Research UK
is contributing 160 million pounds.  Imperial College London ,
 King’s College London  and  University College London  are pitching
in 40 million pounds each. The total includes contingency funds.  The expected 120 million-pound annual budget will come from
the same sources. Cancer Research will fund 40 million to 50
million pounds a year and the Wellcome Trust will give an
undetermined amount, the heads of both groups said. The
remainder will come from the government and the universities.  Funding Challenge  The government’s spending on Crick contrasts with the
fiscal gloom facing it elsewhere, as it pares jobs and budgets
during an economic downturn. In  Spain , the  Prince Felipe
Research Center , a government-funded biomedical research
facility built in 2005, dismissed 108 of its 258 workers and
halved the others’ salaries last year after the cash-strapped
regional government trimmed its budget amid a deteriorating
economy and rocketing unemployment.  Crick Institute leaders say the U.K. economy hasn’t
suffered as badly and the two largest political parties support
it. The project began in 2007 during the  Labour Party ’s
leadership and has received the  Conservative Party ’s backing
since it formed a coalition with Liberal Democrats in 2010.
Nurse says he hasn’t lost sleep about the budget.  “I worry about the air conditioning,” he says. “I’m
confident the Crick will be close to the top in priorities for
all the organizations that are supporting us.”  Power Security  Right now the Crick Institute is a building frame with
heavy equipment on the ground and a 160-foot crane overhead.
Temperature control is a critical detail for main contractor
Laing O’Rourke Plc. If power were lost, researchers could lose
years of frozen specimens and fragile material. Two double-
skinned tanks with enough  diesel fuel  to run generators for a
week have been installed underground.  The tanks concern some neighbors, as does security. Robert
Henderson, whose apartment overlooks the site, worries harmful
pathogens could be compromised in an accident or security
breach. Henderson, a retired civil servant, says that documents
he’s obtained show that “level-four” bacteria and viruses will
be stored at the site.  Level-one labs don’t usually require special containment
equipment or contain agents known to cause ill effects in
immunocompromised adults. Level-two facilities contain moderate
hazards to people and the environment, while a level-three
laboratory may house potentially lethal agents. Level four
indicates the presence of pathogens that present a high risk to
individuals of life-threatening diseases, that are often fatal
and for which there are no treatments or vaccines.  ‘Enhanced Containment’  “It’s going to be extremely dangerous,” Henderson said.
“They are classifying it as level-three plus. They are going to
be using level-four toxins.”  Crick spokesman John Davidson says the building will have
an “enhanced containment level-three” laboratory so that
scientists can study H5N1 influenza virus without endangering
local birds. The lab won’t contain level-four pathogens such as
Marburg, lassa fever or ebola virus, Davidson says. There are
already more than 100 level-three labs in London operating
without mishaps, Nurse says.  In exchange for an exemption from the U.K.’s 20 percent
value-added tax on the building costs, the institute isn’t
allowed to commercialize more than 5 percent of its activity,
such as licensing discoveries, for the first 10 years.  The U.K.’s largest pharmaceutical company and biggest
private investor in R&D,  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , is “waiting”
before getting involved, Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty 
said. Glaxo traces its roots to a nearby 1932 building on Euston
Road that was once headquarters of its forerunner, Burroughs
Wellcome & Co., and now houses part of the Wellcome Trust, which
was endowed by founder Henry S. Wellcome’s fortune.  “It wouldn’t be the biggest shock for GSK to be back on
the Euston Road,” Witty said during an October press conference
at the Wellcome Trust’s nearby central London location. “We’ll
see.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  