-- Norilsk Departing CEO Strzhalkovsky Said to Get $100 Million
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-12-14T12:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/norilsk-departing-ceo-strzhalkovsky-said-to-get-100-million-1-.html
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel’s chief
executive officer is set to pocket about $100 million upon
stepping down after its billionaire owners struck a deal to end
a four-year feud, three people with knowledge of the plan said.  The terms of the so-called golden parachute for Vladimir Strzhalkovsky have been agreed on by all major shareholders and
will be put to a vote at a Dec. 17 board meeting, the people
said, asking not to be named before the information is public.  Strzhalkovsky’s exit was a condition of an accord reached
by Norilsk’s main shareholders this week to end a dispute that’s
hampered operations since 2008. Billionaire Vladimir Potanin,
whose Interros Holding Co. owns 28 percent, will probably take
the CEO role pending board approval, according to a Dec. 11
filing from Interros and fellow holder  United Co. Rusal. (486)   Officials at Norilsk, Rusal and Interros declined to
comment on any payout for Strzhalkovsky.  “This is the largest payout in Russia’s corporate
history,” said Georgy Abdushelishvili, a senior partner at Ward
Howell International, a headhunting company. “It’s an indecent
amount.”  Strzhalkovsky’s potential exit bonus will be equivalent to
about 3 percent of Norilsk’s net income for 2012, according to
Sberbank Investment Research.  The departing CEO is set to receive $50 million of
compensation immediately upon retirement, $25 million six months
later and $25 million a year after that, Vedomosti reported
today, citing two people with knowledge of the plan.  Best-Paid  Strzhalkovsky was ninth on the list of the 25 best-paid
Russian managers this year, according to Forbes, with estimated
annual compensation of $10 million.  Strzhalkovsky, 58, a former Russian tourism agency chief,
was named Norilsk CEO in August 2008, an appointment backed by
Interros and opposed by 25 percent shareholder Rusal. Rusal’s
billionaire chief Oleg Deripaska has since criticized management
for its strategy and use of cash, including spending $9 billion
on buybacks last year.  Strzhalkovsky was an officer with the KGB for 11 years. He
served in the Leningrad branch of the Soviet security agency
from 1980 to 1991. Before joining Norilsk,  Russia ’s biggest
mining company, his only business experience was when he headed
the Neva travel agency in the 1990s, according to his official
biography.  “The main reason for Strzhalkovsky’s appointment as CEO
was believed that he would help Potanin by his lobbying power in
government,” Alexei Morozov, an analyst at UBS AG, said by
phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  