-- NYU President Sexton To Face No-Confidence Vote
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-12-14T20:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/nyu-president-sexton-faces-faculty-no-confidence-vote-in-march.html
Professors in New York University’s
largest school moved to hold a no-confidence vote on President
John Sexton in March, saying he failed to consult with them on
the school’s expansion.  The Faculty of Arts & Science decided yesterday by simple
majority to vote on the no-confidence resolution during the week
of March 11-15, according to an e-mail from James Uleman,
chairman of faculty’s Senate Caucus. Any result of the vote will
be non-binding, school officials said. The university’s board of
trustees expressed support for Sexton today in a statement from
Chairman Martin Lipton.  Sexton has opened NYU campuses and study centers in the
Middle East,  Europe , Asia and South America. His plan for new
construction in New York’s Greenwich Village neighborhood,
called NYU 2031, is opposed by 39 of the university’s
departments and divisions, according to NYU Faculty Against the
Sexton Plan, a teachers’ group.  “ NYU’s faculty  has lost its faith in this administration
to lead NYU in a way that is educationally productive, inclusive
and financially sound,” the group’s statement said. “The no
confidence vote is a response to a pattern of top-down decision
making by President Sexton and his administration.”  Sexton has also opposed unionization among NYU’s graduate
students, which many faculty support, and failed to speak out
about the detainment of professors in countries such as Abu
Dhabi and  China , where the president has established branches,
said Andrew Ross, a professor of social and cultural analysis.  Style, Substance  While Sexton hasn’t consulted with faculty, he has been
effective in raising the school’s profile and expanding research
opportunities, said Tony Movshon, a professor of neural science
who’s been at NYU for 37 years. He said Sexton’s critics are
pointing out problems without offering alternatives.  “My sense is that the substance of what he’s trying to do
is improve the institution in ways that will make me a better
and more productive scholar and benefit my students and
colleagues,” Movshon said. “You have to separate style from
substance.”  Sexton’s proposals for the school’s future are sound,
Lipton said.  “While we recognize this vote reflects a disagreement with
the direction of the university, John and the strategic
direction he has set for the university enjoy our full
confidence and strong support,” Lipton said in the statement.  Faculty backing can have a significant impact on the
ability of a university president to lead. Lawrence Summers
stepped down as president of Harvard University in 2006 after
losing a faculty no-confidence vote. Support from students and
professors helped University of Virginia President Teresa Sullivan regain her job in August, just weeks after she had been
forced to resign by the Board of Visitors.  Professors voted 144 in favor of the no-confidence test,
and 114 against, Uleman’s e-mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  