-- Obama to Run Most Health Marketplaces as States Opt Out
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-12-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/obama-to-control-most-health-exchanges-as-states-opt-out.html
More than half of the state
exchanges to be created under the 2010 U.S. health-care overhaul
are expected to be run by the federal government, offering
insurers and consumers uniform criteria in those areas.  While a final tally won’t come until at least today, 32
states have said they’ll let the U.S. build all or most of their
exchanges or are expected to,  according  to Avalere Health, a
Washington-based consultant. Sixteen and  Washington , D.C. said
they plan to build their own, with the rest unclear. That puts
the onus on the Obama administration to set up the marketplaces
at the heart of the Affordable Care Act’s mandate to expand
medical coverage to as many as 30 million people.  The first six states to win U.S. approval for their
exchange are split on what their programs will look like, with
some requiring insurers to compete for access based on pricing
and products. For the states likely to adopt the federal
exchange plan, U.S. health officials have said any insurer can
offer services if minimal standards are met.  “This enables the federal government to ensure there’s
some level of consistency nationally,” said  Dan Mendelson ,
chief executive officer of Avalere. “From that perspective,
they see that as a positive.”  As of yesterday, 16 states, including California,  Utah ,
Colorado and New York, had confirmed they’ll run their own
exchanges, the states and  U.S. Department of Health  and Human
Services said.  State Exchanges  The governor of Idaho, Republican Butch Otter, announced
this week he would submit paperwork to build his own. Utah’s
governor, Gary Herbert, sent a letter to the health department
yesterday asking that its existing health exchange, which serves
less than 8,000 small business workers, be certified as
compliant with the law.  Mendelson’s firm expects that  New Mexico  and  Nevada  would
join them. The two states’ governors, both Republicans, had made
no announcements as of 6:30 p.m. New York time yesterday.  “State versus federal isn’t the issue,” said Jay Angoff,
a former Obama administration health official who is now a
partner at Mehri & Skalet in Washington. “The issue is, will
the exchange be strong or weak. That is, will the exchange use
the bargaining power that it has to drive down rates.”  Four states, Delaware, Illinois,  Iowa  and North Carolina,
plan to contribute some services to a federally built exchange
in a partnership with the Obama administration, according to
Gary Cohen, who directs the U.S. Center for Consumer Information
and Insurance Oversight. Those states may take on functions such
as plan selection and customer assistance, while the federal
government builds the websites and other infrastructure.  Iowa Partnership  Iowa Governor Terry Branstad, a Republican, confirmed the
arrangement yesterday.  Iowa “intends to minimize the federal government’s
intrusion into the regulation of insurance,” Branstad said in a
letter to Obama’s health secretary,  Kathleen Sebelius . “We will
continue to regulate insurance plans in Iowa and retain control
over our Medicaid and Children’s Health Insurance Plan
eligibility.”  Avalere projects that the number of states in partnership
with the government may eventually reach 12. The deadline for
states to declare whether they’ll assist the U.S. on exchanges
is Feb. 15.  Under the law, the exchanges are designed to allow
consumers who don’t have medical coverage through their jobs
beginning in 2014 to easily compare health plans, and then buy
coverage online and through telephone services. The U.S. is
subsidizing the cost for those who can’t afford coverage.  Budget Concerns  While federal marketplaces would create a standard for the
exchanges in states with widely different demographics from  New
Jersey  to  Nebraska , they will also face initial budget
constraints that aren’t an issue for states building their own
marketplaces.  Funding for states to build their own exchanges is
essentially unlimited, and the U.S. has given $1.8 billion so
far, including to some states that have said they won’t complete
the work, Cohen said in prepared remarks for a congressional
hearing on the issue Dec. 13.  Money for the federal exchange is in shorter supply, coming
mostly from a $1 billion appropriation made by the health law.  States that build their own exchanges will have to come up
with their own money to run the marketplaces. Estimates of those
costs vary. Nebraska Governor Dave Heineman, a Republican,  said 
it would cost about $81 million a year to run an exchange while
the federal government could do the same job for about 27
percent of that amount.  Nebraska Governor  Heineman said yesterday that he had wanted Nebraska to run
its own exchange.  “Like any business CEO a governor wants to make sure they
have operational control,” he said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “It became very clear over our evaluation over two
years that wasn’t going to be the case. The federal government’s
totally dictating and controlling all the major decisions. We
don’t have flexibility.”  Connecticut  anticipates a cost of about $30 million a year,
said Kevin Counihan, the CEO of the Connecticut Health Insurance
Exchange. Maryland’s exchange is expected to cost about $35
million in its first year, declining to $32 million in future
years, said Rebecca Pearce, its  executive director .  Playing Politics  Politics, not practical concerns, has driven most
Republican governors’ decisions to opt out of building an
exchange, said Robert Blendon, a health policy professor at the
Harvard School of  Public Health  in Boston. Kansas Governor  Sam Brownback  decided to let the federal government build his
exchange against the recommendation of the state’s insurance
commissioner,  Sandy Praeger , who is also a Republican.  “The majority of his voters really do not favor the
Affordable Care Act,” Blendon said in a phone interview. “For
a number of Republicans, they still have some uncertainty that
this thing could just sort of fall apart -- that when they try
to set it up it’s not going to work, it’s going to be too
expensive.”  Heineman said he isn’t trying to bring down the law.  “At this stage of the game the president of the  United
States , President Obama, won re-election,” he said in the
Bloomberg TV interview. “The new federal health care law, the
Affordable Care Act, is not going to be repealed. What I’m faced
with right now as governor and what my focus has been, what’s
the most cost-effective way to implement this program at the
state level because it’s clearly going forward.”  Competing Constituencies  Angoff said the Republican governors are caught between two
constituencies: conservative voters and insurance companies.  Insurers “want Republican governors to establish exchanges
in their states, particular conservative governors, because they
know those governors will make sure the exchange is weak,”
Angoff said in by phone. “The exchange will allow insurers to
sell whatever policies they want and charge whatever they want
and doesn’t use the bargaining power they have.”  The governors also can wait to see if exchanges work,
Blendon said. The law lets them take over their state exchange
any year after 2014, allowing them “to watch this without
taking a great political risk,” he said in a phone interview.  “If these things are working and people who favored them
do well in the 2014 election, I think these governors will just
discover it’s worth having and the legislature will think it’s
worth doing because of practical reasons,” he said.  At least one state, Idaho, faces hurdles on its decision to
build its own exchange and may present a challenge to federal
regulators.  Contract Issues  Otter can’t sign contracts to begin work on Idaho’s
exchange before winning approval from the state legislature,
which doesn’t convene until Jan. 7, according to Bill Deal, the
state’s director of insurance.  “Time is our enemy at this point,” Deal said in a
telephone interview.  If Idaho’s plans aren’t immediately approved, it can take
over the federal exchange at some future time or pursue the
partnership.  “If you take a federally facilitated exchange then
basically, as we understand it, it’s pretty much a one-size-fits
all,” Deal said. “I just would rather be at the table, working
with them, than not have that opportunity.”  Cohen’s agency awarded a $93.7 million contract to  CGI
Group Inc. (GIB/A)  in September 2011 to build the federal exchange,
Bloomberg Government reported. Quality Software Services Inc., a
unit of  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the largest U.S. insurer, has a
$69 million contract to build a system that states and the
federal exchange will use to verify customers’ eligibility for
insurance subsidies.  Setting Rules  Insurance companies have encouraged states to build the
exchanges, partly because “it enables a nice level of
communication” with the people who run them, Mendelson said.
“If you’re operating the Blue Cross Blue Shield company in that
state you also get a close familiarity with all the legislators
who are setting the rules.”  Rules for the federal exchange aren’t yet final. So far,
insurers are pleased that the government won’t limit the number
of plans allowed into the exchanges, as long as they meet
federal standards, said  Robert Zirkelbach , a spokesman for
 America’s Health Insurance Plans , an industry lobbying group.  “That should be permanent,” he said in a telephone
interview. “That encourages more plans to participate.”  Congressional budget projections show that more than half
of the 30 million uninsured targeted by the Affordable Care Act
will eventually buy subsidized plans through the exchanges and
11 million will become eligible for Medicaid, the state-federal
insurance program for the poor.  Next Step  The next step for the U.S. is to certify by Jan. 1 that
states that will build their own exchanges meet an Oct. 1
deadline to begin enrollments. The Obama administration appears
to be on schedule, Avalere’s Mendelson said.  The government said yesterday that Washington, D.C., New
York and  Kentucky  had won conditional approval as  meeting
requirements for their exchanges, adding to the six states
announced Dec. 10.  “The exchanges are a major legacy item for the president
and he is not going to let up on that,” Mendelson said in a
telephone interview. “The administration will find the
resources to get done the things they need to get done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  