-- Lockheed Finishes $3.8 Billion F-35 Contract With U.S.
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-12-14T23:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/lockheed-said-to-finish-3-8-billion-f-35-u-s-contract.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  received a
Pentagon contract guaranteeing a final installment of about
$127.7 million for the fifth production lot of F-35 fighters,
bringing the total value to about $3.8 billion, according to the
Defense Department.  Most of the $3.8 billion for 32 aircraft was committed over
the last year under an initial “undefinitized” contract signed
last December.  The final contract, announced today in a Pentagon
statement, protects the remaining funds from sequestration, the
automatic defense cuts that will begin after Jan. 2 unless
Congress and the administration craft an agreement to avoid tax
increases and spending cuts.  Lessons learned during lengthy negotiations on this batch
of F-35s should help speed the process in pending negotiations
over the sixth lot of 36 planes, Marillyn Hewson, the Bethesda-
based company’s chief operating officer, said today at a
Bloomberg Government breakfast in  Washington .  Hewson, who will become Lockheed Martin’s chief executive
officer next month, said she hoped agreement will be reached
this month on an undefinitized contract for a sixth lot that
would include 31 U.S. aircraft as well as three for  Italy  and
two for Australia.  The Pentagon estimates the total cost for development and
production of 2,443 F-35s will be $395.7 billion, a 70 percent
increase since the initial contract with Lockheed Martin was
signed in 2001.  ‘Worst’ Relations  The final contract took almost a year to negotiate. In
September, Lieutenant General Christopher Bogdan, who is now
director of the Pentagon’s F-35 program, said relations with the
company had deteriorated to “the worst I’ve ever seen.”  “It should not take 10 or 11 or 12 months to negotiate a
contract with someone we’ve been doing business with for 11
years,” Bogdan said at the time.  Hewson said today “the reason why it took longer is that
there was a real need to understand the cost, on both sides,
from the government side, from Lockheed Martin’s side.”  Work on the planes in the fifth lot will be performed at
 Fort Worth ,  Texas ; El Segundo,  California ; Warton in the U.K.;
Orlando,  Florida  and Nashua, New Hampshire, the Pentagon said.  Orlando Carvalho, Lockheed Martin’s F-35 program manager,
said in an e-mailed statement that the aircraft will eventually
be delivered for testing to Edwards Air Force Base in
California, Eglin Air Force Base in Florida and in  Arizona  to
Luke Air Force Base and the Marine Corps Air Station at Yuma.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  