-- Tohoku Electric Falls on Warning of Another Earthquake Fault
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2012-12-14T01:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/tohoku-electric-falls-on-warning-of-another-earthquake-fault.html
Tohoku Electric Power Co. fell the
most in more than a week after it became the third utility to be
told it may have built a nuclear plant near an active earthquake
fault line.  The shares declined as much as 3.1 percent, heading for the
biggest decline since Dec. 3, to 722 yen, on the  Tokyo  Stock
Exchange today. They reversed the loss by 10:52 a.m. to trade at
747 yen, while the benchmark Tokyo Stock Price Index was little
changed.  All but two of  Japan ’s 50 nuclear reactors are offline for
safety checks following the March 11 earthquake and tsunami last
year that wrecked an atomic plant in Fukushima prefecture,
causing radiation leakage and mass evacuations. Japan’s Nuclear
Regulation Authority are investigating six nuclear facilities,
including Tohoku Electric’s Higashidori plant, for active
earthquake faults.  “Utilities may be forced to delay restarting reactors
under investigation even after the NRA sets up new safety
standards” in July, Takashi Aoki, a Tokyo-based  fund manager  at
Mizuho Asset Management Co., said by phone today.  Kunihiko Shimazaki, who leads the NRA investigation team,
yesterday said the fault in question may be active after
examining the geology of the area around the facility in Aomori
prefecture, northern Japan, Jiji Press reported.  Earlier this week, shares of power utilities fell after
another team of geologists appointed by the NRA said a fault
under Japan Atomic Power Co.’s Tsuruga No. 2 reactor is probably
active.  Kansai Electric  Power Co. is running additional checks
after an NRA team delayed a decision on whether a fault under
its Ohi plant is active.  Both the Tsuruga and Ohi plants are on the coast north of
 Osaka  in western Japan.  The NRA will run on-site checks of Kansai Electric’s Mihama
plant,  Hokuriku Electric Power Co. (9505) ’s Shika facility and the
Japan Atomic Energy Agency’s Monju fast-breeder for active
faults next year, the Mainichi newspaper reported yesterday.  The group of five scientists is scheduled to complete the
two-day investigation at the Higashidori plant today and will
discuss the findings at a Dec. 20  meeting  in Tokyo, according to
the NRA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  