-- Oil Caps Weekly Gain on U.S., Chinese Manufacturing
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-12-14T20:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/oil-rises-on-expansion-in-china-manufacturing.html
Oil capped its fifth weekly gain
since Nov. 2 as manufacturing grew in the U.S. and  China , the
world’s two biggest crude-consuming countries.  Futures rose 0.9 percent as industrial output in the U.S.
rose by the most in two years in November, the  Federal Reserve 
reported. A preliminary  purchasing managers’ index  showed
China’s manufacturing is expanding at a faster pace this month.  “Recent U.S. data are suggesting that the U.S. is finally
out of recession and that should be very bullish for oil
demand,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy &
Economic Research in Winchester, Massachusetts. “The
manufacturing number revives hopes that we’ll see China become
one of the biggest components of demand growth next year.”  West Texas Intermediate crude for January delivery advanced
84 cents, or 1 percent, to settle at $86.73 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . Prices rose 0.9 percent since Dec. 7,
capping the fifth weekly gain since Nov. 2.  Brent for January settlement, which expired today, rose
$1.24, or 1.1 percent, to $109.15 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange. The more actively traded February
contract gained $1.72 to $108.18. The European benchmark grade
was at a premium of $22.42 to WTI.  The Brent-WTI spread widened after  BP Plc (BP/)  delayed until at
least June the conversion of the biggest crude unit at its
Whiting, Indiana,  refinery  to process heavy crude.  WTI-Brent Spread  WTI has declined 12 percent in 2012 as the U.S. shale boom
deepened the  glut  at Cushing, Oklahoma, America’s biggest
storage hub and the delivery point for  New York  futures. That
has left it at an average $17.37 below Brent this year, compared
with a premium of about 95 cents in the 10 years through 2010.
Brent, the benchmark grade for more than half the world’s crude,
has risen 1.6 percent this year.  Output at U.S. factories, mines and utilities increased 1.1
percent last month after a revised 0.7 percent drop in October
that was more than initially estimated, the Fed reported.
Economists forecast a 0.3 percent advance, according to the
Bloomberg survey median. Manufacturing, which is a part of
production, also surged 1.1 percent in November, the most this
year.  “Industrial production is better than expected and that’s
helping the market a little bit,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of
commodities research at IAF Advisors in Houston. “We have come
down to the lower end of the fair-value range.”  A Labor Department report yesterday showed first-time
claims for  unemployment insurance  declined to a nine-week low in
the week ended Dec. 8.  Chinese Economy  In China, a preliminary  purchasing managers’ index  by HSBC
Holdings Plc and  Markit Economics  indicated a reading of 50.9,
for December, higher than a median estimate of 50.8 in a
Bloomberg survey. It followed a reading of 50.5 in November,
which was above the expansion-contraction dividing line of 50
and was the first growth in 13 months.  “The market is digesting the fact that economic data have
been a little bit better,” said Bill Baruch, a senior market
strategist at Iitrader.com in  Chicago . “There is a lot of
optimism about China.”  China will consume 9.9 million barrels a day of oil,
115,000 more than previously projected, in the final three
months of this year, the  International Energy Agency  said in its
Dec. 12 monthly report.  Oil also rose as the euro strengthened against the dollar
after European Union chiefs pledged to seek a joint strategy for
handling failing banks. The euro gained as much as 0.7 percent
to $1.3173, the highest level since May. A stronger euro and
weaker dollar raise dollar-denominated oil’s appeal as an
investment alternative.  Budget Talks  Investors also watched the budget debate in Washington as
President  Barack Obama  and Republican House Speaker  John Boehner 
remained deadlocked in the negotiations. The two met for a third
time at the White House yesterday to discuss averting more than
$600 billion in spending cuts and tax increases before a year-
end deadline.  The budget talks “remain restraining factors,” said  Tim
Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New
York, in an e-mail.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 641,067
contracts as of 3:17 p.m. Volume totaled 494,132 contracts
yesterday, 5.3 percent lower than the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.55 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  