-- Oil Heads for Weekly Gain on China, U.S. Manufacturing Outlook
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-12-14T05:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/oil-heads-for-weekly-gain-on-u-s-china-manufacturing-outlook.html
Oil rose in  New York , extending a
weekly gain, as a report signaled manufacturing may expand at a
faster pace this month in  China , the world’s second-biggest
crude consumer.  Futures advanced as much as 0.8 percent and headed for the
fifth weekly increase in six. A preliminary  purchasing managers’
index  for China by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed
a reading of 50.9, higher than the 50.8 median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. A number above 50 indicates an expansion. U.S.
industrial production probably grew 0.3 percent in November,
according to a separate Bloomberg survey before Federal Reserve
data today.  “The latest PMI, slightly ahead of the market expectation,
suggests that China is maintaining the economic recovery
momentum,” said  Gordon Kwan , the head of regional energy
research for Mirae Assets Securities Ltd. in  Hong Kong  who
predicts West Texas Intermediate crude will average $95 a barrel
next year. “Improved economic headlines from China will provide
firm support to  oil prices  in 2013.”  Crude for January delivery climbed as much as 71 cents to
$86.60 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $86.57 at 1:33 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract fell 88 cents to $85.89 yesterday. Prices are up 0.7
percent this week and down 12 percent this year.  Brent for January settlement, which expires today, rose 49
cents to $108.40 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The more actively traded February contract was up 54
cents at $106.99. The European benchmark contract was at a
premium of $21.81 to New York-traded WTI. Front-month prices
have gained 0.8 percent in 2012.  China Demand  Oil in New York has technical support along an upward-
sloping trend line on the daily chart, around $85.88 a barrel
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures
yesterday halted their decline after reaching this line, which
connects the intraday lows of June and November. Buy orders tend
to be clustered near chart support while losses may accelerate
with a sustained drop below it.  The December purchasing managers index by HSBC and Markit
follows a reading of 50.5 in November, which was the first
expansion in 13 months. China will consume 9.9 million barrels a
day of oil, 115,000 more than earlier projected, in the final
three months of this year, the  International Energy Agency  said
in its Dec. 14 monthly market report.  The nation’s net crude imports rose to the highest level in
six months in November and its refineries processed more than 10
million barrels a day of oil for the first time, government data
showed this week.  Fiscal Cliff  Oil may drop next week in New York after the White House
and congressional officials said no progress had been made on
 federal budget  talks, according to a Bloomberg survey. Twelve of
31 analysts and traders, or 39 percent, forecast crude will
decrease through Dec. 21. Eight respondents, or 26 percent,
predicted a gain.  WTI fell 1 percent yesterday as Democratic and Republican
lawmakers expressed renewed pessimism about the prospect of
reaching a deal before more than $600 billion in tax increases
and spending cuts known as the fiscal cliff start in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  