-- Tokyo Steel Shifts Output as Power Costs Rise Post-Fukushima
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2012-12-14T08:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/tokyo-steel-shifts-output-as-power-costs-rise-post-fukushima-1-.html
Tokyo Steel Manufacturing Co. (5423) ,
 Japan ’s top steelmaker from scrap iron, is relocating output to
deal with rising power costs in the wake of last year’s nuclear
disaster.  Higher electricity tariffs will push up costs for an
industry already burdened by weak domestic demand, overcapacity
and a strong yen, the company’s president, Toshikazu Nishimoto,
said Dec. 12 in an interview in Tokyo. The company will shift
output from its Kyushu mill to its operation in Okayama in the
southwest of Japan’s main island, an area where rate increases
aren’t planned, he said.  “Looking at the future, this issue will be serious for the
industry,” he said.  The shuttering of most of Japan’s nuclear reactors after
last year’s Fukushima disaster has forced utilities to turn to
alternative energy sources and pay a higher price for fuel.
Kyushu Electric Power, which supplies Japan’s southern island,
plans to increase electricity prices by 14 percent for corporate
customers from April 2013.  The proposed increase will raise power costs by as much as
800 million yen ($9.6 million) a year, or about 1,000 yen per
metric ton of steel, Nishimoto said. The company’s electricity
bill accounts for as much as 30 percent of its production costs.  Japan’s steel industry faces an increase in costs of as
much as 100 billion yen annually due to rate increases, which
will especially hurt the smaller mills that operate electric
furnaces, Hiroshi Tomono, chairman of the Japan Iron and Steel
Federation, said Nov. 21.  Tokyo  Steel surged 6.3 percent to close at 340 yen on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange, paring its decline this year to 46
percent.  Regional Consolidation  Nishimoto said Japan’s electric furnace steelmakers would
need to consolidate regionally to boost their competitiveness
against South Korean rivals. Tokyo Steel itself isn’t
considering any mergers or takeovers because it doesn’t see any
rivals that would make for a compelling fit.  Instead, the company is focusing on steel products for
sales to new customers including carmakers and electronics
companies, the higher-priced steel market currently dominated by
bigger domestic rivals, including  Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal
Corp. (5401)  and  JFE Holdings Inc. (5411)   Tokyo Steel, which employs around a thousand people, is one
of about 40 electric furnace steelmakers in Japan, which recycle
steel by melting scrap metal. The bigger Japanese steelmakers,
such as Nippon Steel & Sumitomo and JFE Holdings, operate blast
furnaces that use  iron ore  and coal as the key raw materials to
produce the metal.　  Tokyo Steel expects tariff increases by Tokyo Electric
Power Co. to increase costs in the area north of the capital by
about 700 million yen in the year to March 2013. It had moved
some output to Okayama and Kyushu from its Utsunomiya plant
serviced by Tepco, as the company is known, to save costs.  The company sold 2.4 million tons of steel in the year
ended March 31, the highest among operators of electric furnace
mills in Japan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  