-- Monti Courted by EU Chiefs to Seek Election to Italy Post
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-12-14T13:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/monti-courted-by-eu-chiefs-to-seek-election-to-italy-post.html
European government chiefs urged
unelected Italian Premier Mario Monti to shed his mantle as an
independent and campaign for a second term.  “I hope that Mr. Monti has a future in the Italian or
European politics,” Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said at a press conference in Brussels after a two-day
summit. “He will take initiatives in the coming days that I
don’t want to elaborate on now.”  The remarks came a day after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Francois Hollande  praised Monti as
his predecessor,  Silvio Berlusconi , traveled to Brussels to
attend a meeting of political-party leaders.  The chorus of EU support adds to pressure at home for
Monti, 69, to declare his candidacy for elections to be held as
soon as February. While Monti’s tax increases and spending cuts
have  won  praise from business leaders and investors, they have
deepened the nation’s fourth recession since 2001.  Monti is not likely to reveal his hand until after he
resigns as head of a 13-month-old appointed government. The
premier has said he will step down as soon as his budget is
passed by parliament this week.  “I don’t think it’s either possible or opportune to speak
about choices Italian voters will make,” Monti said today.  Monti was showered with praise yesterday by the leaders of
Europe’s conservative parties in Brussels, where he made a
surprise appearance after Berlusconi decided to attend. The
European People’s Party, which hosted the gathering, called on
Monti to run.  “If EPP has invited  Mario Monti  to its summit, it’s
certainly a signal that they would like him also to run,”
Latvian Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis, an EPP member, said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Brussels at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Brussels at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  