-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude Advances, May Decline in Coming Week
-- B y   R o b   V e r d o n c k
-- 2012-12-14T12:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/top-oil-market-news-crude-advances-may-decline-in-coming-week.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Oil Heads for Weekly Gain on China, U.S. Manufacturing Outlook  Oil rose in London, heading for a weekly gain as a report
signaled manufacturing may expand at a faster pace this month in
 China , the world’s second-largest crude consumer.  TOP OIL MARKET STORIES  Oil May Drop on Uncertainty in Budget Talks, Survey Shows  Oil may drop next week on the standoff in  federal budget 
talks as both the White House and congressional officials said
no progress had been made, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Iraq Boom Hands Naimi 2013 Oil-Supply Challenge: Energy Markets  Iraq’s biggest jump in oil production since 1998 is
increasing the burden on  Saudi Arabia  to lower crude exports to
prevent price declines next year.  Goldman Sachs Says Oil Market Tightness to Extend Through 2013  Strength in Brent crude bakckwardation is warranted because
excess global oil inventories are not crude or products, bank
says in e-mailed report  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Gazprom Neft Idles Crude Unit at Moscow Oil Refinery: CDU-TEK  Crude unit AT-VB idled Dec. 8 until end of the month,
according to data sent in e-mail from Russian Energy Ministry’s
CDU-TEK.  ConocoPhillips Has Emissions at Lysite Plant, NRC Filing Shows  ConocoPhillips released gases at its plant in Lysite,
 Wyoming , according to a filing with the National Response
Center. An investigation is underway, the filing showed.  Oil-Refinery Run Rate Falls to 46% at China’s Teapot Plants  China’s smaller oil refineries in Shandong province reduced
processing rates to 46 percent of capacity as of yesterday from
46.2 percent a week earlier, industry website Oilchem.net said.  Marathon Petroleum Has Emissions at Kentucky Plant: NRC Filing  Marathon Petroleum released an unknown amount of benzene
from the flare at its Catletsburg, Kentucky, refinery, according
to a filing with the National Response Center.  Chevron Richmond Plant Halts Diesel Output After Unit Shut (1)  Chevron Corp.’s Richmond refinery, the largest in Northern
California, has stopped producing  diesel fuel  after an Aug. 6
fire shut the plant’s only crude distillation unit.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Fuel Oil Cargo Bookings to Asia in January Double From Last Week  Bookings of fuel oil supply from Western countries
scheduled to arrive in  Asia  next month more than doubled from a
week earlier to 3.95 million metric tons, according to shipping
data, compiled by  Bloomberg News .  Vitol Said to Sell Angolan
Nemba Crude to Hindustan Petroleum  Vitol Group sold 1 million barrels of Angolan Nemba crude
for loading in January to Hindustan Petroleum Corp.,  India ’s
third-largest state refiner, said two traders who asked not to
be identified because the information is confidential.  Bharat Petroleum Seeks to Buy Crude for Loading in February  Bharat Petroleum Corp., India’s second-largest state
refiner, is seeking to buy crude for loading from Feb. 1 to Feb.
10, according to a tender document obtained by Bloomberg News.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Biggest China Deal Sours as Cnooc Ratings Hit 3-Year Low: Energy  China’s biggest foreign acquisition is underwhelming  Wall
Street .  PetroChina Pays $1.2 Billion for Alberta Shale Energy
Stake (1)  PetroChina Co. agreed to pay Encana Corp. C$1.18 billion
($1.2 billion) for a 49.9 percent stake in an Alberta shale
formation as Asia’s biggest oil producer steps up acquisitions
of overseas oil and gas assets.  U.K. Green Energy Plans to Boost Electricity Bills 54% by 2020  The U.K. government’s effort to expand renewable energy
generation will boost household electricity bills by 54 percent
by 2020, according to a study by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Japan  Utilities Curb Crude Purchases After Supplies Increase (1)  Crude oil purchases by Japanese power producers dropped for
the first time in almost two years as the companies held back
from placing new orders after supplies outpaced consumption.  Sojitz Sees Beyond Rare Earths to LNG, Solar in Non-Atomic Japan  Sojitz Corp., Japan’s top trader of rare earths, plans to
tap into the nation’s shift from nuclear power by setting up its
own liquefied natural gas business and building solar plants,
said Chief Executive Officer Yoji Sato.  KazMunaiGaz Purchase of Conoco Kashagan Stake ‘Under Discussion’  KazMunaiGaz National Co., Kazakhstan’s state energy
producer, is considering whether to buy ConocoPhillips’s stake
in the Kashagan project.  OTHER MARKETS  Commodities Rise on Signs of China Recovery; U.S. Futures Climb  Commodities rose and Chinese stocks rallied the most in
three years as a manufacturing survey added to signs of recovery
in the world’s second-biggest economy. U.S. index futures and
most European shares gained, while Japan’s yen weakened for the
fourth day against the euro.  Euro Rises to Eight-Month High Against Yen After EU Leaders Meet  The euro strengthened to an eight-month high against the
yen as European Union chiefs pledged to seek a joint strategy
for handling failing banks, boosting demand for the region’s
assets.  SPORTS  Carmelo Anthony’s 30 Points Lead Knicks to NBA Defeat of Lakers  Carmelo Anthony  scored 30 points before leaving with a
sprained ankle and the  New York Knicks  opened a 26-point lead en
route to a 116-107 home win against the  Los Angeles Lakers .  Georgia Tech Uses Low-Cost Loans for Transforming Ramblin’ Wreck  Georgia Tech’s bet on the  U.S. economy  at the depth of the
recession allowed it to upgrade sports facilities and save about
$72 million in construction and financing costs.  Bengals Beat Eagles 34-13 to Lead Steelers in NFL Playoff Race  The  Cincinnati Bengals  defeated the Philadelphia Eagles
34-13 to move ahead of the Pittsburgh Steelers in the standings
for the final playoff spot in the American Football Conference.  Lara Gut Wins First World Cup Downhill as Lindsey Vonn Crashes  Switzerland ’s Lara Gut won the first  World Cup  downhill
race of her career in  France  as Olympic champion  Lindsey Vonn 
crashed.  ENERGY PRICES *  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch  Contract  ----   ----  ----   ----  --------WTI Crude ($/Bbl)
86.70  +0.81  +0.9  Nymex      Jan. Brent Crude ($/Bbl)
108.61  +0.70  +0.6    ICE      Jan. Gasoil ($/Ton)
921.00  +0.50  +0.1    ICE      Jan. Gasoline (c/Gal)
263.08  +2.87  +1.1  Nymex      Jan. Natural gas ($/MMBtu)
3.31  -0.03  -1.0  Nymex      Jan. Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    108.91
 +1.38  +1.3    OTC   21 Days Heating Oil            297.12
+2.75  +0.9  Nymex      Jan.  Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----Dollar Index            79.92    --Gold ($/Oz)  1,696.80  -1.2 MSCI World Index     1,327.97    --  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss in  London  at   sev@bloomberg.net  