-- Morgan Stanley Names Merger-Advisory Chiefs for U.S., Europe
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-12-14T20:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/morgan-stanley-names-heads-of-merger-advisory-for-u-s-europe.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , the second-ranked
adviser of announced mergers this year, named Bob Eatroff and
Jim Head co-chiefs of mergers and acquisitions in the Americas
as the firm reshapes its investment bank’s leadership.  Colm Donlon and Johannes Groeller will lead M&A in Europe,
the Middle East and  Africa , according to an internal memo
obtained by  Bloomberg News . Rob Kindler, 58, remains global head
of the business. Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for New
York-based Morgan Stanley, confirmed the contents of the memo.  Morgan Stanley is shuffling top executives in its
investment bank after Colm Kelleher, 55, took control of that
business in addition to his oversight of the firm’s trading
operations. Paul Taubman, 51, who oversaw  investment banking ,
said last month he was retiring at the end of this year.  Morgan Stanley has ranked first or second in advising on
mergers and acquisitions each year since 2008. The firm produced
$915 million in advisory revenue in the first nine months of
2012, a 31 percent drop from a year earlier as completed global
deal volume fell 23 percent.  The Wall Street Journal reported the appointments earlier
today. The changes are effective Jan. 1.  Mark Eichorn, who previously led M&A in the U.S., was named
global co-head of investment banking with Franck Petitgas, 51,
last month. Michele Colocci, who was named head of the M&A group
in  Europe  in 2010, will become a vice chairman of investment
banking and will remain chairman of European M&A, according to a
person briefed on the matter, who asked not to be identified
because the information hasn’t been made public.  Eaton Deal  Eatroff previously ran Morgan Stanley’s technology
investment-banking group on the East Coast and advised Deutsche
Telekom AG on the pending merger of its T-Mobile USA unit with
MetroPCS Communications Inc. He also advised Comcast Corp. on
its purchase of a controlling interest in  NBC Universal .  Head previously helped lead the firm’s financial services
merger-advisory group for the U.S. and  Canada . He was on the
team that advised the Federal  Reserve Bank  of New York on its
dealings with American International Group Inc. during the
financial crisis, and advised First Data Corp. on its 2007 sale
to KKR & Co.  Donlon advised equipment maker Eaton Corp. on its $11.8
billion purchase of Cooper Industries Plc, a maker of electric-
distribution equipment, which was completed last month. He also
advised Dutch lender ABN Amro Bank NV on its 2007 sale to Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc.  Groeller previously served as co-head of investment banking
in Germany and Austria. He advised Porsche SE on the sale of its
automotive business to Volkswagen AG, and Daimler AG on its
disposition of a stake in European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  