-- How Many Friends Can Republicans Afford to Lose?
-- B y   F r a n c i s   W i l k i n s o n
-- 2012-12-14T17:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/how-many-friends-can-republicans-afford-to-lose-.html
Republicans crushed a weaker opponent in  Michigan  this week, passing a right-
to-work law that infuriated unions. But the effort -- an attempt to defund and
depopulate Democratic campaigns by defunding and depopulating unions – points to
some of the difficulties Republicans face due to a diminished coalition. The law exempted Republican-friendly police officers and fire fighters,
thereby underscoring the  naked politics  behind it. But more than 17 percent of
Michigan workers are members of a union, one of the highest rates of
unionization in the nation. Crushing unions benefits Republicans. Given that white working-class men are
one of the last loyal Republican constituencies, however, the victory is not
necessarily cost-free. According to exit polls, 14 percent of voters in the
Michigan Republican primary in February were union members. It’s doubtful
Republicans gained any new supporters with their action this week; it’s possible
they lost a few. Back in  Washington , House Speaker  John Boehner  is trying to avoid offending
an even more crucial constituency: the elderly.  Mitt Romney  lost big among young
people in November but he beat  Barack Obama  among voters between the ages of 45
and 64 by 51 to 47. Among voters 65 and older, it was Romney who won big, 56 to
44. Boehner wants to wring concessions from Obama largely in the form of cuts to
Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. Most of the beneficiaries of those
programs have something in common beyond their good looks, which is why Boehner
is  desperate to avoid Republican fingerprints  on the cuts. Once Republicans get through cutting benefits to the elderly, perhaps they’ll
look for concessions from Nascar fans living below the Mason-Dixon line. (Francis Wilkinson is a member of the Bloomberg View editorial board.  Follow 
him on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at the  Ticker .