-- How to Keep All of Huck Finn in the Classroom
-- B y   M a r k   B a u e r l e i n
-- 2012-12-14T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/how-to-keep-all-of-huck-finn-in-the-classroom.html
Common Core , the new national
standards for math and English language arts, is a rarity in
U.S. public life: a federal undertaking with bipartisan support.  Developed by the  National Governors Association  and  Council 
of Chief State School Officers, it has been adopted by 45
states. It has the support of the  Barack Obama  administration
and the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation , former Florida Governor
Jeb Bush and  Randi Weingarten  of the  American Federation of
Teachers .  Top research groups such as the  Fordham Institute  and
Achieve Inc. are involved, and consortia financed by the U.S.
Department of Education have formed to assess the standards from
state to state.  But a battle may break out once states and districts
develop curricula and administer tests that align with Common
Core’s standards on English language arts. The clash revives the
so-called  canon wars  from 25 years ago, when multiculturalists
in high school and college demanded an end to the dead-white-
male dominance of the humanities. Less Hawthorne and Melville
and more Toni Morrison and popular culture, they said.  Common Core’s standards  weigh in  on the side of classics.
The language in the document is unambiguous: “The standards
mandate certain critical types of content for all students,
including classic myths and stories from around the world,
foundational U.S. documents, seminal works of American
literature, and the writings of Shakespeare.”  One standard decrees that 11th- and 12th-graders
“Demonstrate knowledge of eighteenth-, nineteenth-, and early-
twentieth-century foundational works of American literature.”  Mandate Burden  These are sure dictates, commendable and rigorous (although
“seminal works of English literature” is, sadly, absent). To
measure them, tests will have to include passages from “The
Autobiography of  Benjamin Franklin ,” Henry Thoreau’s “Walden,”
“The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn,” “Narrative of the Life of
Frederick Douglass” and Emily Dickinson’s verse.  That mandate is a problem for test developers. One
advantage of Common Core is that it enables similar assessments
across states, providing uniform measures of the standards
adopted by everyone. As test developers select passages and
craft questions, however, they must heed “bias and sensitivity
guidelines” that rule out race and sex imbalances, stereotypes
and pretty much anything that might upset or disserve any
particular group of students.  They dispel criteria of historical standing and literary
quality, emphasizing but one thing: how questions affect test-
takers. Is this passage geared more to boys than girls? Will an
absence of passages with black characters discourage black test-
takers?  The Partnership for Assessment of Readiness for College and
Careers, for instance, applies that criterion with a hammer. A
consortium of 23 states,  PARCC , as it is referred to, develops
assessments that purport to “measure the full range of Common
Core State Standards.” But it also maintains that they must be
“free of offensive, demeaning or emotionally-charged language.”  Any test must be “Reflective of a balance of authors by
gender, race, and ethnicity,” too. Responding to PARCC’s call
for items,  Pearson Plc (PSO) , the leading textbook publisher,
guaranteed that its passages would avoid stereotypes and be
“free from religious references.” The Educational Testing
Service did the same, promising to omit “subject matter that is
controversial or emotionally charged” or that “reflects a
gender, racial or ethnic bias.”  But in trying to make the experience of every test-taker
free of conflict, in removing virtually all racial, sexual or
religious elements from the readings, test developers can’t
properly assess Common Core’s literary-historical mandates. A
full sample of the classics would upset the balance demanded of
bias review -- too many white men -- and many canonical works
display scenes charged with racism and sexism.  Shylock Censored  Think of all the central episodes that wouldn’t survive --
Shylock’s  speech , Hester Prynne emerging from her cell
brandishing a sparkling golden “A,” Douglass fighting back
against the sadistic slave-breaker Mr. Covey, and hundreds more.
If reading tests genuinely addressed the classics, bias and
sensitivity reviewers would denounce them outright.  What will happen? Developers will probably collect some
neutral words from Shakespeare, a few sentences from Poe, a
paragraph from  John Locke  and so on, and mix them with
contemporary writings that fit sensitivity benchmarks, producing
a sanitized, ahistorical exam that fails the spirit of Common
Core.  This is what Common Core’s architects wished to circumvent
when they inserted language of “foundational texts” and
“American classics” in the standards. They aimed to preserve our
literary inheritance, including works that don’t reflect today’s
social values.  Rather than rehearing the canon wars circa 1989, we have an
alternative. Test developers can create two tests: one, a
general test of reading skills that meets bias stipulations and
ignores Common Core’s literary-historical standards; the other,
a test on literary-historical knowledge, including open
questions that make students draw on Twain, Shakespeare, ancient
myths, Edith Wharton and so on.  The general reading test would look much like other reading
assessments, relying on multiple choice and short-answer
responses to passages selected in such a way that they don’t
presume knowledge of the material in advance.  The literary-history exam would be an essay test, raising a
theme, style, genre or other topic and asking students to draw
copiously from literary history, for instance, asking students
to address the theme of individualism in six foundational works
of American literature.  The first test is being developed; the second must be
added.  With the latter, we retain literary history as a field
of its own, with specific material that students study in the
same way they study history and chemistry. This test would not
be a skill measure or a literacy assessment. It would test how
much knowledge students have of the best works of American
civilization, a special duty of public schooling necessary to
the formation of responsible, independent and informed citizens.  (Mark Bauerlein is a  professor  of English at  Emory
University  and the author of “The Dumbest Generation.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark Bauerlein at  engmb@emory.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 