-- HP Pretexting Case Investigator Sentenced to Prison
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-12-14T20:55:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/hp-pretexting-case-investigator-sentenced-to-prison.html
Bryan Wagner, a private investigator
who helped steal telephone records for an internal investigation
into media leaks by  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  board members, was
sentenced to three months in prison.  Wagner was sentenced yesterday, according to a statement
today from U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag in San Francisco. The
owner of the company retained by Hewlett-Packard for the probe
that had hired Wagner and the son of the owner were sentenced in
July to three years probation, according to the statement.  Wagner pleaded guilty in 2007 to conspiracy and aggravated
identity theft. He admitted to using the Social Security number
of an unidentified journalist to obtain the reporter’s telephone
records to pursue the source of the leak, a practice called
pretexting.  Hewlett-Packard Chairman Patricia Dunn was fired in 2006
for approving the boardroom spying, which spurred a national
debate over identity theft. Hewlett-Packard contracted with
Action Research Group in  Florida . Action Research hired Wagner
of Littleton,  Colorado , who posed as the targets of the
investigation to obtain their phone records.  The probe of Hewlett-Packard and its investigators moved
Congress and the  California  Legislature to pass laws prohibiting
the release of phone records without consent. Hewlett-Packard,
based in Palo Alto, California, in 2008 settled with reporters
over claims their privacy was invaded by the company’s
investigation.  Cynthia Chin Young Lie, a federal public defender who
represented Wagner, didn’t immediately return a call to her
office for comment on the sentence.  The case is U.S. v. Wagner, 07-00016, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 