-- Pakistan Cuts Key Rate to 5-Year Low as Power Crisis Hits Growth
-- B y   F a s e e h   M a n g i
-- 2012-12-14T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/pakistan-cuts-key-rate-to-5-year-low-as-power-crisis-hits-growth.html
Pakistan  cut its benchmark interest
 rate  to the lowest level in five years as policy makers seek to
stimulate an economy battered by an energy crisis and insurgency
that is likely to need more International Monetary Fund aid.  The  State Bank of Pakistan  reduced the discount rate by 50
basis points to 9.5 percent,  Syed Wasimuddin , spokesman, told
reporters in Karachi yesterday. The decision was predicted by 14
of 15 economists  surveyed  by  Bloomberg News . One saw no change.  Pakistan’s economy will probably expand 3.5 percent in the
12 months through June, the IMF forecast Nov. 29, less than the
4.3 percent predicted by the government. Fighting with militants
along the nation’s northwest border is sapping the budget and
undermining confidence among businesses that are already
struggling with record power outages that have shut factories
and left thousands of people jobless.  “Pakistan is likely to go back to the IMF for another loan
next year,” Hamad Aslam, head of research at Lakson Investments
Ltd in Karachi who predicted yesterday’s decision, said before
the announcement.  Pakistan is scheduled to repay about $7.5 billion to the
Washington-based IMF between 2012 and 2015, with $1.2 billion
due in June. A partially disbursed $11.3 billion loan program
expired in September 2011.  The central bank’s reduction reflects  inflation  slowing to
a 41-month low of 6.93 percent in November. Today’s cuts add to
2 percentage points of easing since August. The new rate will be
effective from Dec. 17.  Muted Credit  “Deceleration in inflation is faster than the projected
path and credit extended to private businesses remains muted,”
the  State Bank  said in its monetary policy statement yesterday.
Average inflation for the year ending June will be below the 9.5
percent target, it said.  While the central bank has scope for a larger cut, it may
opt for a conservative approach amid IMF repayments, Uzma Taslim,
an analyst at Alfalah Securities Pvt. Ltd. in Karachi, said
before the announcement.  The rupee traded at a record high against the dollar this
week, after falling 9 percent earlier this year.  “Government finances are also under pressure,” Moody’s
Investors Service said in November. “The budgeted deficit of
4.7 percent for the year ending June is likely to see slippage
due to optimistic revenue and expenditure assumptions.”  Pakistan recorded the highest  budget deficit  in two decades
in the fiscal year ended June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  