-- Panetta Signs Order to Allow Turkey to Get Patriots
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-12-14T13:44:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/panetta-signs-order-to-allow-turkey-to-get-patriots.html
The U.S. will send two Patriot anti-
missile batteries and 400 American personnel to  Turkey  to help
defend against potential Syrian attacks.  U.S. Defense Secretary Leon Panetta signed the deployment
order, Pentagon spokesman George Little told reporters traveling
today with Panetta to Incirlik Air Base in southern Turkey.
Asked if the Patriot batteries would be used to enforce a future
no-fly zone over  Syria , Little said it was “too early to say”
how they will be used.  “We expect them to deploy in the coming weeks,” Little
said. “The U.S., working closely with NATO allies, is going to
support the defense of Turkey, especially with potential threats
emanating from Syria.”  International allies have sought to increase pressure on
President Bashar al-Assad as deaths in the conflict near 50,000.
This week more than 100 countries recognized the main opposition
group as the legitimate representative of the Syrian people,
cementing its status as a government in waiting, and warned
Assad that using his stockpiles of chemical weapons would invite
military action.  Russian Veto  The rebel forces battling Assad’s government since 2011
have called for a no-fly zone to create safe havens in border
areas. In October, U.S. State department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said that allies had discussed ways of protecting
civilians in those areas, including proposals for a no-fly zone.  Setting up a no-fly zone would be no easy feat. Russia and
 China  have vetoed United Nations resolutions on Syria in the
past. Russia today said it had not changed policy on Syria,
despite comments yesterday by deputy foreign minister Mikhail Bogdanov who said Assad was losing control.  No-fly zones have been imposed without a UN mandate based
on the doctrines of “implicit authorization” and
“humanitarian intervention,” though neither doctrine has ever
gained widespread acceptance in international law, according to
Stefan Talmon, a professor at Oxford University.  The Patriot batteries, capable of shooting down enemy
missiles, will remain in Turkey for an unspecified period of
time and will be operated by the U.S. personnel, Little said. He
declined to specify where the batteries, which Turkey requested
to defend itself against Syrian fire, will be located.  German Missiles  Turkey and Syria had close ties until protests against
Assad began. Tensions between the two governments have grown
since the downing of a Turkish jet in June, the deaths of five
Turks killed by a mortar round from Syria in October and the use
by rebels of Turkish bases.  Turkey may also get four more Patriot batteries, two each
from  Germany  and the Netherlands, and all six systems will be
under the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s command, the  New
York  Times reported today.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  of Bethesda,  Maryland , produces the
Patriot PAC-3 interceptor and  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  of Waltham,
 Massachusetts , manufactures the launcher, radar and battle-
management system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Incirlik, Turkey, at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  