-- Peru Construction Boom Fuels ‘Spectacular’ Economic Growth
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-12-14T19:12:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/peru-construction-boom-fuels-spectacular-economic-growth-2-.html
Peru ’s  economy  expanded faster than
economists expected in October as mounting investment fueled a
construction boom, and the central bank raised its growth
forecast for this year.  The economy expanded 6.7 percent from the same month a year
earlier, after a 5.9 percent increase in September, the
government’s statistics agency said in a report issued in Lima
today. The median estimate of seven economists in a Bloomberg
 survey  was for 6 percent growth.  Investment in mines, malls, housing and infrastructure
spurred a 16.3 percent jump in construction in  South America ’s
fastest-growing economy. The pace of October’s expansion was
“spectacular” and surprised the central bank, which increased
its 2012 growth forecast to 6.3 percent from 6 percent, bank
President Julio Velarde told reporters in  Lima  today.  “We see signs of growing consumer and business
confidence” while “a significant increase” in public
investment is also spurring domestic demand without pressuring
prices, Velarde said.  Lending growth slowed in October for the first time in five
months after the central bank increased  reserve requirements 
four times to head off inflationary pressures. The pace of
lending to business and consumers slowed to 16.4 percent from
17.1 percent in September, the central bank said Nov. 26.  Solid Demand  “Domestic demand is solid thanks to high levels of
investment,” said Melvin Escudero, chief executive officer of
El Dorado Investments, a Lima-based institutional investor
advisory firm. “Peru can easily grow 6 percent next year
assuming  Europe  doesn’t fall apart, the U.S recovery continues
and  China’s economy  doesn’t cool further.”  Export revenue from metals stabilized in October on higher
prices for copper and gold, Peru’s top exports, after falling
6.1 percent in the first nine months of the year. Mining
investment next year will increase to as much as $10 billion
from about $7 billion this year, Mining Minister Jorge Merino
told Congress Nov. 29.  Foreign direct investment will rise 34.6 percent to $11.1
billion this year compared with last year, the central bank said
in a report issued in Lima today.  Current Appreciation  Consumer demand and investment will fuel growth of 6.2
percent next year, Velarde said.  The sol gained 0.1 percent to 2.5635 per  U.S. dollar  at
1:16 p.m. in Lima, according to Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit.
The sol earlier touched 2.5550, the strongest level since 1996,
data from Peru’s banking regulator show.  The currency has appreciated 1.2 percent in the past three
months, the most among major Latin American currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  Fiscal restraint is easing pressure on the sol and policy
makers will consider taking other measures to aid exporters and
slow the appreciation if capital inflows intensify, Finance
Minister Miguel Castilla said today. The government will post a
fiscal surplus of 2 percent this year and probably a smaller
surplus next year, he told reporters in Vina del Mar,  Chile .  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 