-- Petrobras Argentina Gains on Speculation of YPF Bid
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2012-12-14T18:51:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/petrobras-argentina-gains-on-speculation-of-ypf-bid.html
Petrobras Argentina SA (PESA) , a unit of
 Brazil ’s state-controlled oil company, headed for the biggest
weekly gain among global peers on speculation that the company
or its assets will be acquired by state-owned  YPF SA. (YPFD)   The shares gained 4.1 percent to 3.33 pesos at 3:32 p.m. in
Buenos Aires and earlier reached 3.4 pesos, the highest intraday
price since April 24. YPF rose the most in three weeks.  Petrobras Argentina extended a gain this week to 11 percent
after La Nacion reported that YPF, Bridas Corp., Tecpetrol SA
and Pluspetrol SA may submit bids today. The Buenos Aires-based
newspaper cited company executives involved in the talks without
identifying them. Parent company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) 
announced in June it’s seeking to raise as much as $14.8 billion
through asset sales and restructuring to fund deep-water oil
discoveries in Brazil.  “The stock is rising on speculation of the offers and that
money raised may be distributed as dividends,” Juan Jose Vasquez, an analyst at Bull Market Brokers said by telephone
 Buenos Aires .  YPF jumped as much as 9.8 percent to 93 pesos, the highest
level since April when the company was expropriated from Spain’s
Repsol SA. The stock has gained as much as 10 percent in the two
days since a company official said YPF would bid for Petrobras
assets if they go on sale.  Stars Aligning  “The stars are aligning for YPF, as the company’s success
is key to the Argentine government,” Fernando Pertini, Chief
Executive Officer of Millenia Asset Management International,
said by telephone from Panama City. “YPF is having a stream of
good news, including higher natural gas prices on new findings,
successful bonds issuances and talk of potential partnerships.”  Alejandro Di Lazzaro, a YPF spokesman, declined to comment
in an e-mail response to questions.  Bridas is controlled by  China ’s  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  and the
Bulgheroni family. Tecpetrol is a unit of Techint Group.
Carolina Sorondo, a Tecpetrol spokeswoman declined to comment
when reached by telephone. Stefania Argento, a Techint Group
spokeswoman in Milan, didn’t respond to telephone calls and an
e-mail seeking comment. Techint’s  Tenaris SA (TEN)  unit declined to
comment in an e-mailed response.  “Bridas is unaware of an ongoing sale,” said Bulgheroni
spokesman Mario Calafel. He declined to comment when asked if
Bridas would bid if the assets were for sale.  Pluspetrol spokespeople weren’t available, assistant
Cecilia Garcia said from Buenos Aires. Rio de Janeiro-based
Petrobras declined to comment in an e-mailed response.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net ;
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  