-- Philippines Ready to Unveil Rule to Cap Inflows; Stocks Fall
-- B y   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-12-14T07:12:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/philippines-ready-to-unveil-measure-to-cap-flows-tetangco-says.html
The  Philippines  will implement a new
measure to deal with “risk sensitive” capital inflows, as
interest-rate reductions alone are no longer enough, central
bank Governor Amando Tetangco said. Stocks and the peso fell.  “We will announce at least one new measure before year-
end,” Tetangco said in a phone interview today. He earlier told
Bloomberg TV that it’s “hard to say” whether the Philippines
is at the end of a rate-cut cycle and that evenly balanced
inflation risks give policy makers room to keep borrowing costs
at a record-low 3.5 percent.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas has cut the  overnight rate  by a
total 100 basis points this year to bolster growth. It held
borrowing costs yesterday after the economy  expanded  7.1 percent
last quarter, the fastest pace in  Southeast Asia , helping lure
investors and propel the peso to its strongest level since March
2008 last month and stocks to a record this week.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  fell for a third day,
losing 1.5 percent as of 3:06 p.m. in  Manila , poised for the
sharpest loss since July 9. Ayala Land Inc., the biggest builder,
and SM Investments Corp., owner of the nation’s largest bank by
assets, fell more than 2.7 percent each.  The peso slipped a fifth day, heading for its biggest
weekly decline in four weeks. The currency dropped 0.1 percent
to 41.11 per dollar, data from Tullett Prebon Plc showed.  “We want to ensure continuity of monetary and financial
stability while discouraging regulatory arbitrage,” Tetangco
said when asked to elaborate on the plan. “We will definitely
consider more macro prudential measures as needed.”  Limit Inflows  Bangko Sentral has banned overseas investors from its
special-deposit accounts and ordered lenders to provide more
funds to cover risks on non-deliverable currency forwards. Other
measures being considered to curb inflows include new limits on
currency forwards and a review of their risk premiums, Tetangco
said on Dec. 3. Capital controls won’t be necessary at this
stage, he said this month. He declined to elaborate today.  South Korea  tightened limits on the amount of foreign-
exchange forward positions banks are allowed to hold from Dec. 1
as gains in the won, the region’s best performer this year,
threaten the nation’s overseas sales. The peso’s rise is a worry
and will hurt exporters and overseas remittances, Economic
Planning Secretary Arsenio Balisacan said on Nov. 28.  “They are trying to slow down the appreciation of the peso
even though they have already done a good job at it,” said
Allan Yu, who helps manage about $10.3 billion at Metropolitan
Bank & Trust Co. in Manila. “Slowing currency gains will help
the exports sector and preserve the value of remittances.”  Macro Measures  Bangko Sentral expects stronger inflows from remittances,
exports and investments in the coming year, Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo told reporters yesterday. Net investments in stocks,
bonds and deposits are projected to rise to $3.8 billion in 2013
from $3.2 billion this year, while net foreign direct
investments are estimated at $2.2 billion next year, he said.  Remittances from Filipinos overseas and receipts from
outsourcing companies are structural flows, Tetangco said today.
“For these, we can accommodate some appreciation in the
currency,” he said. “Risk-sensitive flows, however, would
require macro prudential measures.”  Shares on the Philippine benchmark index traded at
18.7 times reported earnings on Dec. 11, the highest since
January 2004. Today, shares are trading at 18.35 times
reported earnings, the third-most expensive in  Asia .  The $225 billion economy expanded at the fastest pace since
2010 last quarter. Inflation slowed to 2.8 percent in November
from a year earlier, a five-month low. BSP targets price gains
to average 3 percent to 5 percent in 2012 to 2014.  “The strong third-quarter gross domestic product number
did surprise and indicates there’s less need to support the
economy with monetary stimulus for now,” Tetangco told
Bloomberg TV. “If this balance stays, then we think we have
room to keep rates at current levels. We will not hesitate
though, to make adjustments as appropriate to keep the economy
on the path of strong growth and keep prices stable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rishaad Salamat  in  Hong Kong  at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  