-- Portugal Airport Operator Said to Lure at Least Three Final Bids
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-12-14T11:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/portugal-airport-operator-said-to-lure-at-least-three-final-bids.html
Portugal’s state airport operator
will get binding bids from Zurich’s main hub and Corporacion
America of  Argentina , the companies said.  Vinci SA (DG)  will also
make an offer, according to a person familiar with the sale.  Flughafen Zurich AG (FHZN)  will bid for ANA-Aeroportos de Portugal
SA by today’s deadline, spokeswoman Sonja Zoechling said by
phone from the Swiss city. Corporacion America, which runs 49
airports in Latin America and Europe, said Dec. 10 it would bid.  Vinci of  France  is poised to submit proposals, according to
the person, who asked not to be identified, saying the process
was private. Europe’s top builder made a 2.5 billion-euro ($3.3
billion) offer for ANA, the highest received, when non-binding
bids were submitted last month, another person said last week.  Portugal  is auctioning ANA to raise money after seeking a
bailout last year from the European Union and the International
Monetary Fund. Of the two other short-listed bidders identified
by the government on Nov. 15, Colombian builder  Grupo Odinsa SA (ODINSA) 
has dropped out and Frankfurt airport owner Fraport AG can’t say
if it’s involved, spokesman Robert Payne said in an e-mail.  Zurich airport has since teamed up with Brazilian motorway
operator CCR SA and Global Infrastructure Partners to pursue the
deal, while Corporacion America is bidding with Lisbon-based
 Sonae (SON)  Sierra, which develops and leases shopping centers.  Fraport’s short-listed bid was made with Industry Funds
Management Pty Ltd. of  Australia .  Portugal has hired  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  as advisers on the
disposal of ANA and state airline TAP SA, which it also wants to
sell. The government expects to find buyers for both by the
year’s end and conclude deals early in 2013, Maria Luis Albuquerque, secretary of state for treasury, said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  