-- Pound Gains for Second Week as Home Prices Add to Growth Signs
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-12-14T16:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/pound-heads-for-weekly-gain-as-home-prices-add-to-growth-signs.html
The pound advanced for a second week
versus the dollar after an industry group predicted U.K. house
prices will accelerate next year and a  Bank of England  official
said the economy will improve.  Sterling appreciated against most of its 16 major
counterparts as investors said  Standard & Poor’s  decision
yesterday to lower the U.K.’s credit-rating outlook will have
little impact. Ten-year gilts held a five-day slide as European
Union leaders pledged to seek a joint strategy for handling
failing banks, damping demand for safer investments.  “The global economic outlook has improved and my view is
that the pound will benefit from that and it might be more
resilient than many thought,” said  Neil Jones , head of European
hedge fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. “Any setback
from the S&P’s decision is likely to be short-lived because all
it did was confirm what the market already knew.”  The pound was little changed at $1.6135 as of 4:45 p.m.
 London  time after rising to $1.6172 on Dec. 12, the strongest
since Nov. 1. It has gained 0.6 percent this week. The U.K.
currency fell 0.3 percent to 81.39 pence per euro after sliding
a similar amount yesterday following S&P’s announcement.  Bank of England Markets Director  Paul Fisher  told Reuters
yesterday the U.K. economy will pick up slowly during next year
and the deflation risk has subsided, reducing the need to “do
asset purchases in large scale.”  Home Values  U.K. home values will increase 2 percent in 2013 after a 1
percent gain this year, the  Royal Institution  of Chartered
Surveyors said in a report. Still, the recovery will be
“modest” because of the difficult economic environment, it
said. A separate report from Acadametrics showed prices rose 0.2
percent in November.  U.K. jobless claims unexpectedly declined in November, the
 Office for National Statistics  said Dec. 12, while the
 Confederation of British Industry  said yesterday its gauge of
 manufacturing orders  improved in December.  The pound has gained 1.2 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. The euro declined 1.5 percent and
the dollar fell 3 percent.  Investors should sell the pound versus the dollar because
the U.K. status as a haven will be threatened by its fiscal and
current-account deficits, according to Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc.  The bank recommends investors target a depreciation of
about 7 percent to $1.5050,  Paul Robson , a senior currency
strategist in London, wrote in a client note today. He
recommended exiting the position should the U.K. currency climb
to $1.6640.  ‘Virtually Meaningless’  S&P lowered its outlook on Britain’s AAA grade to negative
from stable, meaning there is one-in-three chance it may cut the
rating in the next two years, the agency said in a statement in
London. This may happen if the U.K. economic and fiscal
performance “weaken beyond our current expectations,” the
rating company said.  “We don’t see it as significant” for gilts, said  Stuart Thomson , who helps oversee about $120 billion as a  fund manager 
at Ignis Asset Management in Glasgow, Scotland. “A move from
AAA to AA+ has lost its impact, if it ever had any. The impact
on default is virtually meaningless.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  played down the
importance of Britain’s top credit rating, saying it is only one
gauge of the economy’s health. Speaking to Parliament’s  Treasury
Committee  hours before S&P’s announcement, he said the rating is
“one test alongside others and the ultimate test is what you
can borrow money at.”  Brussels Meeting  EU finance ministers meeting overnight in Brussels agreed
to put the  European Central Bank  in charge of all euro-area
lenders in a deal that paves the way for the currency bloc’s
firewall fund to provide direct bailouts to banks.  The 10-year gilt yield was little changed at 1.86 percent.
The 1.75 percent bond due September 2022 declined 0.02, or 20
pence per 1,000-pound face amount, to 99. The yield has
increased 12 basis points this week, the most since the period
ended Oct. 19.  U.K. bonds have handed investors a loss of 0.9 percent this
month through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. German bunds rose 0.3 percent and Treasuries declined
0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  