-- PPG Buys Akzo’s U.S. Household Paints Unit for $1.05 Billion
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2012-12-14T08:46:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/ppg-buys-akzo-u-s-deco-paints-unit-for-1-05-billion-correct-.html
PPG Industries Inc. (PPG)  agreed to buy
the North American decorative paint business of  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) 
for $1.05 billion, on optimism the company’s Glidden brand is
poised to benefit from a recovery in construction markets.  The transaction will bring $1.5 billion in additional
revenue to PPG, with 600 Akzo Nobel-owned paint stores, the
Pittsburgh, Pennyslvania-based company said in a statement
today. Shares of the Dutch company surged as much as 7.7
percent, the most since September 2011.  Chief Executive Officer Charles Bunch is accelerating the
transformation of PPG after agreeing to sell a commodity-
chemicals business making plastic pipe and siding for about $1.9
billion earlier this year. For Amsterdam-based Akzo, it marks
the culmination of years of overhauling its unprofitable North
American business and the Glidden paint brand to the point where
it will be “slightly” positive this year, CEO Ton Buechner
said on a conference call today.  “The running sore of the U.S. deco business will disappear
from the portfolio,” Paul Satchell, an analyst at Canaccord
Genuity, said in a note. “This would be considered a poor
multiple for a branded deco paints business under most
circumstances, but the U.S. element has performed remarkably
badly for several years.”  Moving On  Akzo traded 5.2 percent higher at 47.83 euros as of 9:37
a.m. in Amsterdam trading.  “The North American activities need a critical mass, and
we’d need significant funds to get there and we’ve decided to
employ them elsewhere,” Buechner told reporters.  PPG has earmarked an improvement in earnings of about $160
million over a three-year period, including a $60 million boost
immediately upon completion of the deal, it said.  The disposal announcement comes a week after Buechner
returned from almost three months of leave because of fatigue.
Talks with PPG started in the third quarter following an earlier
review into what the options were for the business started under
former CEO Hans Wijers, Buechner said.  Buechner will provide a more detailed strategy update
explaining how the company plans to use the money raised from
the divestment early next year. The company expects cash
proceeds of $875 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  