-- Quebec’s Marois Rules Out Referendum Without Majority
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-12-14T05:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/quebec-s-marois-rules-out-referendum-without-majority.html
Quebec  Premier Pauline Marois, whose
party advocates seceding from Canada, ruled out calling a
referendum on sovereignty for as long as she lacks a majority in
the provincial legislature.  Marois, 63, led the Parti Quebecois to a minority mandate
in the Sept. 4 provincial election, capturing 54 of 125 seats in
Quebec’s National Assembly. With parties opposing separation
controlling a majority of seats, Marois explicitly ruled out
holding another vote on separation before another election.  “I am at the head of a minority government and for sure,
it is not possible for me to hold a referendum,” Marois said
yesterday in an English-language interview at Bloomberg
headquarters in New York.  Quebec, which is predominantly French-speaking, has voted
twice against seceding from  Canada  in referendums -- most
recently in 1995, when the “No” vote prevailed by a 50.6
percent to 49.4 percent margin.  Independence is “a very good idea” for Quebec “because
we will decide our economic policy, our fiscal policy, our
social policy,” said Marois, who became head of the Parti
Quebecois in 2007.  Still, “we will not do sovereignty if the people don’t
want to,” Marois said. “That will be a democratic decision.
That will not be a surprise for the population or for the
investors.”  The independence issue has lost momentum in recent years.
In the 2011 federal election, the  Bloc Quebecois , which
advocates separation for Quebec in the national parliament, was
 reduced  to four seats from 49.  10th Issue  According to a poll by Leger Marketing published Aug. 1 by
Le Journal de  Montreal , Quebec sovereignty was ranked 10th among
a list of top issues for voters in the Sept. 4 election. Health
care topped the list.  Support for sovereignty depends on the question that
pollsters ask, Marois said.  “When you ask the question: ’Do you want sovereignty?’
support is low, 30 percent or so,” she said. “If you ask the
question we asked in the referendum -- ‘Do you want to be
sovereign, but with an agreement with the rest of Canada’ --
some months we have 45 or 46 percent support.”  Marois concludes a two-day trip to New York today aimed at
strengthening economic ties between Canada’s second-most
populous province and its southern neighbor. The U.S. takes in
about 70 percent of Quebec’s international exports, according to
government figures.  The goal of sovereignty “won’t change our geography and
the strength of our relationship with our American friends and
partners,” Marois said yesterday in a speech to the Foreign
Policy Association in  New York . “We place the highest value on
our relationship with the  United States .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in New York at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  