-- Rajoy Says Spain Doesn’t Need a European Rescue Deal Now
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-12-14T13:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/rajoy-says-spain-doesn-t-need-a-european-rescue-deal-now.html
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said
Spain doesn’t need a European bailout now as he stopped short of
ruling out an eventual request.  “Today we don’t need it,” Rajoy said in an interview with
Cadena Ser from Brussels, where he attended a European Union
summit. “If it’s necessary, we will use it, and if it’s not,
which it isn’t at the moment and that’s why we haven’t used it,
well we won’t.”  Rajoy, who said in October that sometimes “the hardest
decision” is making no decision at all, has kept investors
guessing since August as to whether he’ll seek a rescue that
would allow the  European Central Bank  to buy the nation’s bonds.
The Spanish Treasury has sold all the debt it planned  this year
and is now building a buffer for 2013.  Rajoy said no country should exclude having to seek help
from the ECB, which has sent a clear message that “ Europe  won’t
abandon anyone, as it didn’t in the case of  Greece .”  “No EU country has said it won’t use this instrument if it
needs it, and if anyone did, in my opinion, they would be making
an enormous mistake,” Rajoy said.  Even so, Rajoy told reporters after the summit was over
that “Spain won’t lose its access to markets. It has never lost
it. In fact in the last bond auction, yesterday, it sold three-
year, five-year and 28-year bonds successfully and so Spain will
not have any problem.”  ‘We Shall See’  He declined to comment on whether there’s a yield threshold
that would prompt him to seek rescue. “I can’t give more
details,” Rajoy said. “It may seem opportune in the future or
not, we shall see.”  While Rajoy said reducing the  budget deficit  is
“necessary”, he declined to estimate how much it may be this
year after it was as large as Greece’s last year, the second-
biggest in the euro zone after Ireland’s.  “We will see what the deficit figure is once the budget
execution for all the administrations is completed,” he said,
days after Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro signaled the nation
may miss its deficit goal in 2012. “The European Commission
understands that Spaniards and their government have made a
significant effort,” he said,  Spain has already received one bailout from the euro
region’s rescue fund of as much as 100 billion euros ($131
billion) for banks overwhelmed by the collapse of the real-
estate boom.  Spain  expects to use about 40 billion euros of the
facility, and even as the government remains on the hook for the
funds, Rajoy said today that the banks themselves will pay it
back.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  