-- South Africa Bond Yields Rise Most in a Month as Rand Fluctuates
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-12-14T14:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/rand-set-for-second-weekly-rise-as-commodities-rally-on-china.html
South African bond yields climbed
the most in a month before the start of the ruling  African
National Congress  elective conference next week. The rand
fluctuated between gains and losses.  Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026
rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 7.35
percent as of 3:45 p.m. in Johannesburg, the biggest one-day
increase since Nov. 15 and erasing declines in the previous four
days. The rand traded little changed at 8.6601 per dollar, after
advancing as much as 0.3 percent and slipping as much as 0.2
percent. The currency slid less than 0.1 percent this week.  ANC members meeting in the central city of Bloemfontein
from Dec. 16 to 20 will discuss proposals that could boost costs
for operators in the world’s biggest producer of platinum and
chrome, hampering efforts to cut a 25.5 percent jobless rate and
risking sovereign-rating downgrades toward junk levels. Moody’s
Investors Service downgraded South African on Sept. 27, with
 Standard & Poor’s  following two weeks later, while both kept the
debt on negative outlook.  Fitch Ratings  said it’s reviewing the
country early next year.  The downgrades reflect investor concerns that “are still
there and they’re probably valid,” Andre Roux, head of fixed-
income investments at Investec Asset Management Ltd. in Cape
Town, said by telephone. “They’ll be in the market for a
while.”  The rand erased gains as importers bought dollars, taking
advantage of the currency’s advance to a month-high before the
start of Christmas holidays, said Ion de Vleeschauwer, chief
dealer at Bidvest Bank Ltd. in Johannesburg. Dec. 17 is a public
holiday in  South Africa .  “The rand has been in a tight holiday range,” De
Vleeschauwer said. “We’ve seen strong importer demand toward”
8.60 per dollar, he said.  China Data  The rand had been boosted by a report signalling that
manufacturing may expand at a faster pace this month in  China ,
the biggest buyer of South African raw materials.  A preliminary purchasing managers’ index for China by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed a reading of 50.9,
higher than a median estimate of 50.8 in a Bloomberg News
survey. A figure above 50 indicates an expansion. The U.S.
Federal Reserve said yesterday it will expand its bond buying
program and keep  interest rates  low until unemployment falls,
further boosting demand for commodities and riskier assets.  The S&P GSCI Index of raw materials advanced as prices of
metals including copper and platinum gained. Metals and other
commodities account for 45 percent of South Africa’s exports,
according to government data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  