-- RBA May Need Deeper Rate Cuts as Currency Hits Growth, OECD Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-12-14T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/rba-may-need-deeper-rate-cuts-as-currency-hits-growth-oecd-says.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia may
need to cut its  benchmark interest rate  further as the local
dollar’s resilience impedes economic growth, the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development said.  Growth will slow to 3 percent in 2013 from 3.7 percent this
year, the OECD said in a survey released in Paris today. The
OECD urged the government to abandon efforts to prop up
industries such as carmakers that are struggling to adjust to
intensified competition from abroad.  Australia’s central bank lowered borrowing costs by 1.75
percentage points to 3 percent in the past 14 months as the
local currency’s sustained strength contains inflation and a
mining investment boom crests. The local dollar has risen about
10 percent since this year’s low on June 1 as offshore investors
sought a safe haven, even as  Australia ’s key commodity prices
eased in the past year.  “The conduct of monetary policy needs to cope with the
conflicting pressures on the currency,” the OECD said in the
report on Australia. “A lower sensitivity of the currency to
falling commodity prices might require stronger cuts in the cash
rate to support demand.”  The OECD backed the government’s drive to return its budget
to surplus, citing a good backdrop of low unemployment, a growth
outlook “close to potential” and still high terms of trade,
referring to a gauge of export prices relative to import prices.  ‘Opportune Time’  “Now is an opportune time for fiscal consolidation,” the
OECD said. “Maintaining a solid government balance sheet offers
valuable protection against large-scale shocks, as the 2008-09
crisis demonstrated.”  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said the report showed Australia’s
economy “stands tall amongst its peers” after 21 years without
a recession. He cited the OECD’s comments on the government’s
fiscal tightening that implies less upward pressure on borrowing
costs and the currency.  Prices of Australia’s key export,  iron ore , have rebounded
since reaching a three-year low on Sept. 5 after  China  announced
spending on new subways and roads. Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government is bidding for a A$44 billion ($46 billion)
turnaround in the budget to surplus in time for an election due
late next year.  The goal has been jeopardized by a weaker international
outlook, lower prices for commodity exporters and the high
currency. The so-called Aussie has averaged about $1.03 in the
past two years, compared with about 73 U.S. cents in the prior
decade.  Global ‘Mutation’  The OECD urged the government to maintain the economy’s
flexibility, saying Australia can’t escape “a mutation of the
world economy” that is likely to produce a permanent shift in
the nation’s comparative advantage. It said policies that help
workers and firms adapt are more effective than those that
protect jobs or businesses in certain regions and industries.  “Using public subsidies to keep resources in sectors
adversely affected by such changes, such as the automotive
industry, would likely prove futile and expensive and imply lost
opportunities elsewhere,” the OECD said. “It will force
stiffer adjustments on sectors that do not benefit from such
special support, and over time become a drag on  living
standards .”  Australia’s government has committed A$5.4 billion to the
car industry up to 2020,  Greg Combet , industry minister, said at
a news conference in Sydney July 17. The country’s three car
manufacturers have cut almost 1,000 jobs over the past year.  Job Cuts  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Holden unit said last month it would
fire about 1 in 13 workers at its main plant in  Adelaide , Ford
Motor Co. said in July it would cut about one in seven
manufacturing jobs, and Toyota Motor Corp. said in January it
would get rid of about one-tenth of the workforce at its
manufacturing plant in  Melbourne .  “It is also important not to procrastinate in making these
adjustments, for they are easier to undertake in current
circumstances, when the economy is growing strongly and
resources are available to ease the transition and to compensate
the ‘losers’ from the adjustment process,” the report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  