-- Treasury 4-Week Bill Rates Negative as Bank Outflows Projected
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-12-14T18:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/treasury-4-week-bill-rates-negative-as-bank-outflows-projected.html
Treasury four-week bills traded at
negative rates for the first time since January amid speculation
the expiration this month of unlimited  deposit insurance  for
certain bank accounts will push cash into money markets.  A procedural motion yesterday fell 10 votes short of the 60
needed in the  U.S. Senate  to move forward on a two-year
extension of the Transaction Account Guarantee Program. The TAG
program, introduced in the wake of the 2008 credit crisis,
guarantees $1.5 trillion in non-interest bearing transaction
accounts above the FDIC’s general limit of $250,000. A previous
extension is set to end Dec. 31.  The one-month  rate  on the bill reached negative 0.0051
percent, from 0.0203 percent yesterday, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices.  The rate is down from a high this year of 0.1876 percent on
Nov. 23. The one-month bills last traded negative, meaning
investors are paying the government for the safety of holding
their cash, on Jan. 9, according to Bloomberg data.  “This week’s decline in bill rates was dramatic,” wrote
 Tony Crescenzi , a strategist at Pacific Investment Management
Co. in  Newport Beach ,  California , in a note to clients today.
“The expiration of the TAG program is a lesser-known cliff and
it will result in a further decrease in the universe of safe
assets.”  Bank Outflows  The end of the insurance coverage may trigger up to $250
billion to flow out of banks accounts and into money-market
securities, according to Citigroup Inc. Rates on  repurchase
agreements  as well as federal funds are also forecast to
decline, also driving bill rates lower, next year as short-term
debt sales by the Federal Reserve end.  Fed policy makers announced this week that it will end
their program to extend the maturity of its debt, known as
Operation Twist. The debt sales, which caused primary dealers’
holdings of short-term securities to rise to record levels, has
increased money-market rates, including repo and fed funds.  The slide in money-market rates this week has also been
exacerbated as banks and securities firms are also often
attracted to the safest maturities at quarter- and year-end to
improve the quality of assets on their balance sheets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  