-- Treasury Yields Below Inflation May Last Years: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2012-12-14T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/treasury-yields-below-inflation-may-last-years-chart-of-the-day.html
Investors in  Treasury securities 
will have to get used to yields lower than the U.S. inflation
rate, according to  Andrew Garthwaite , a global strategist at
Credit Suisse Group AG.  As the CHART OF THE DAY shows, the so-called real yield on
10-year notes is less than zero for the second consecutive year.
That hasn’t occurred since the 1970s, according to  data  compiled
by Yale University Professor Robert J. Shiller. The real yield
is calculated by subtracting the 12-month percentage change in
consumer prices from the notes’ yield.  “Negative real rates will remain in place for at least a
decade -- and maybe a generation,” Garthwaite, who is based in
London, wrote two days ago in a report.  To reduce the ratio of government debt to gross domestic
product and to bolster employment, the U.S. and other developed
countries need to bring down real yields to minus 1.5 percent to
minus 2 percent, the report said. The 10-year Treasury’s latest
monthly figure, for October, was negative 0.4 percent.  U.S. borrowing exceeds 100 percent of GDP for the first
time since the 1940s, according to government data depicted in
the chart. In 1946, the debt-to-GDP ratio peaked at 121 percent
and the inflation-adjusted 10-year yield dropped to a year-end
low of negative 16 percent.  Federal Reserve policy makers decided this week to hold
down their main  interest rate  as long as unemployment exceeds
6.5 percent and projected inflation is less than 2.5 percent.
The decision bodes well for stocks, Garthwaite wrote, as it
points toward faster GDP growth or accelerating inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in  New York  at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  