-- Republicans Say CEO Support for Obama Risks Tax Rate Cut
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-12-15T05:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/republicans-say-ceo-support-for-obama-risks-tax-rate-cut.html
The top Republican tax writers in
Congress warned business groups that supporting President  Barack Obama ’s tax plan may cost them a chance at cutting the corporate
rate, as U.S. budget talks headed into the weekend with no
compromise in sight.  Representative Dave Camp of  Michigan  and Senator Orrin Hatch of  Utah  were responding to the White House’s efforts to
court corporate chief executives, which culminated in a Dec. 11
Business Roundtable letter expressing openness to a tax rate
increase for high-earning individuals.  “There simply is not enough money on the individual side
of the tax code to achieve the size of tax increases the
president is seeking,” Camp and Hatch wrote yesterday in a
letter to the Business Roundtable and the National Federation of
Independent Business. “In endorsing the president’s push for
higher tax rates, you are also risking some of your own top
priorities for tax reform,” such as reducing taxes on profits
earned overseas and the corporate tax rate, they wrote.  Obama has used public backing from chief executives such as
Lloyd Blankfein of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to help make his
case for higher tax rates for top-earning individuals. Obama
wants the higher rates as part of an agreement to avert more
than $600 billion in automatic spending cuts and tax increases
scheduled to start in January.  Obama and House Speaker John Boehner met Dec. 13 and didn’t
announce any progress toward an agreement. Boehner went home to
 Ohio  for the weekend.  Dividing Businesses  Camp and Hatch want Congress to start an overhaul of the
individual and corporate parts of the tax code in 2013. They
accused Obama of trying to “divide the business community”
over a tax overhaul. Camp is chairman of the House Ways and
Means Committee, while Hatch is the top Republican on the Senate
Finance Committee.  “It’s important that the business community work together
to drive the economy and create jobs,” Matt Miller, vice
president of tax and fiscal policy at the Business Roundtable,
said in a statement. “Comprehensive tax reform coupled with
entitlement reform and economic growth should be job number one
next year.”  Obama has called for lowering the corporate tax rate to 28
percent from 35 percent for most companies while increasing the
top rate on individuals to 39.6 percent from 35 percent.  Individual Returns  That would raise taxes for companies that pay through their
owners’ individual returns, which are typically smaller,
although they also include some businesses such as global law
and accounting firms. Republicans want to lower the corporate
and top individual rates to 25 percent.  Meanwhile, Senate Republicans are discussing a legislative
strategy to break the U.S. budget stalemate that would let
Congress extend tax cuts for all except the highest income
levels, said two Republican aides who spoke on condition of
anonymity.  Under this scenario, the Republican-controlled House would
vote on two separate bills, the aides said. One would extend tax
cuts for all income levels. That would have wide Republican
support though Obama has said he won’t accept it.  The other bill would allow tax cuts for top earners to
expire, as Obama demands. Democrats would support that plan and
Republicans would be likely to provide enough votes to pass it
in the House, one aide said. The Democratic-controlled Senate
would pass and send that measure to Obama, the aide said.  Bush-Era Cuts  Such an approach would let Republicans go on record in
support of extending all of the George W. Bush-era tax cuts even
as enough of them would join Democrats to pass Obama’s plan.  White House press secretary Jay Carney declined to comment
on the possible strategy, saying “there are a lot of ideas
floated” at the Capitol.  “What we have yet to see is a proposal of any kind with
any kind of specificity,” Carney said yesterday.  Stocks fell, as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.4
percent to 1,413.71 at 4 p.m.  New York  time. Treasuries rose for
the first time in four days as consumer prices fell. The yield
on the 10-year note decreased three basis points to 1.7 percent
after rising earlier to 1.75 percent, the highest level since
Nov. 7.  The White House meeting didn’t close the gap between
Obama’s demand for higher taxes for top earners and Boehner’s
call for deeper spending cuts, said a Republican congressional
aide who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Obama wants to extend tax cuts now for income up to
$200,000 a year for individuals and $250,000 for married
couples. Some Senate Republicans have discussed acceding to
Obama’s demand if the president and Boehner can’t reach a budget
deal by year’s end.  ‘Off the Table’  “It seems to me getting that off the table would be
helpful,” Maine Republican Senator Susan Collins said in an
interview. “Everyone agrees that should be done.”  Boehner spokesman Mike Steel declined to comment. Boehner,
during his weekly news conference Dec. 13, didn’t rule out
allowing a House vote on extending tax cuts for all except the
top 2 percent of earners if a broader tax-and-spending deal
isn’t reached soon.  Don Stewart, a spokesman for Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, said in an e-mail yesterday
that “Republicans will continue to look for ways to protect
American families and jobs while strengthening entitlement
programs and continuing to advocate for the types of intelligent
reforms in Washington spending that the president has yet to
propose.”  McConnell “does not advocate raising taxes on anybody or
anything,” Stewart said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  