-- Russia to Buy Less Western Debt Next Year, Siluanov Says
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-12-14T13:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/russia-to-buy-less-western-debt-next-year-siluanov-says.html
Russia  will reduce investments in
the sovereign debt of Western governments next year after
President  Vladimir Putin  ordered an increase in spending on
infrastructure, Finance Minster Anton Siluanov said.  Siluanov made his comment to reporters in Moscow today when
asked whether infrastructure investments by the National
Wellbeing Fund will alter its approach to foreign sovereign
bonds. The structure of the fund’s holdings will be reviewed
next year, he said.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, agreed this
year on rules to channel excess oil and gas revenue into two
sovereign wealth funds. Lawmakers will begin hearing plans next
year to create an agency to oversee investment of the reserves,
Siluanov said.  “Putin said that once the new structure is formed, the
Russian Financial Agency, then part of the funds from the
National Wellbeing Fund should be invested in infrastructure
bonds,” Siluanov said. “It’s not spending but investing by the
National Wellbeing Fund in infrastructure projects.”  In his first state-of-the nation address since returning to
the Kremlin, Putin on Dec. 12 proposed investing as much as 100
billion rubles ($3.25 billion) from the National Wellbeing Fund
in Russian securities and related infrastructure projects, and
asked the  Finance Ministry  to work on the plan.  Currency Weakens  The ruble weakened for a second day against the dollar,
depreciating 0.3 percent to 30.7650 as of 3:17 p.m. in Moscow.
The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 30 stocks pared gains and was 0.1 percent
higher at 1,464.78.  Russia has been saving some oil wealth since 2004 after
then-Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  oversaw the creation of the
Stabilization Fund. The rainy-day fund was later broken into the
 Reserve Fund , used to patch shortfalls in the budget, and the
National Wellbeing Fund, which meets long-term social-spending
obligations.  The government agreed not to reduce the target of the
Reserve Fund from the current level of 7 percent of economic
output, Siluanov said. Economy Minister Andrei Belousov has
called for it to be cut to 5 percent so that revenue can be
directed toward infrastructure spending more quickly.  Reserve Portfolio  Russia’s foreign currency reserves were 45.5 percent in
dollars and 41.7 percent in euros as of March 31, according to
the most recent central bank  report . British pounds were 9.2
percent, the Canadian dollar was 1.4 percent and the yen
accounted for 1.3 percent. At the time, 86 percent of the
reserves were held in sovereign debt.  Russia began increasing its holdings of Australian and
Canadian dollars this year, central bank First Deputy Chairman
Alexey Ulyukayev said yesterday, RIA Novosti reported. The
Canadian dollar now accounts for 3.5 percent of Russia’s
reserves, while the Australian dollar reached 1.5 percent, he
was cited as saying by the state-run news service.  The country’s international currency and gold  reserves  have
advanced 6 percent this year to $527.3 billion as of Dec. 7,
according to central bank data.  Siluanov said in an interview in October that Russia would
consider a broader list of countries to invest in after the
financial agency is formed.  “We’ll consider purchases of securities issued by
countries we don’t invest in, if we have confidence in their
budget and monetary policy and the yields on these nations’
bonds will be acceptable,” Siluanov said in  Tokyo  on Oct. 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  