-- S&P Ordered by Japan Financial Watchdog to Improve Rating
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2012-12-14T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/s-p-ordered-by-japanese-regulator-to-improve-cdo-ratings-system.html
Standard & Poor’s  Japan  unit was
ordered by the nation’s financial watchdog to improve its system
for verifying and updating credit ratings in the regulator’s
first action against a ratings company.  “Significant problems were identified with the company’s
business operations from the perspective of the public interest
and investor protection,” the Financial Services Agency said in
a statement in Tokyo yesterday. The regulator said its
investigative arm recommended action against S&P on Dec. 11.  The rating company’s woes in Japan came to light less than
a month after it was found liable by an Australian judge for
issuing misleading ratings on securities bought by
municipalities ahead of the global financial crisis. S&P failed
to properly confirm information that would affect the ratings of
synthetic collateralized debt obligations, the FSA said.  “This could significantly damage S&P as it harms the
credibility of its ratings with investors and credit issuers,”
said Takao Saga, a professor at Waseda University in  Tokyo  who
specializes in financial regulation. “Rating structured
products generates a lot of income for the companies and this
regulatory penalty will impact revenue.”  Credit rating companies face increased regulation after a
U.S. Senate panel found they provided inflated grades for risky
mortgage bonds, helping cause the credit crisis in 2007 and 2008
that tipped the global economy into a recession.  Skeptical Investors  “Investors and issuers have been skeptical of rating
agencies since the subprime issue emerged,” Saga said.  In  Europe , the ratings companies may face curbs on when
they can assess government debt and restrictions on their
ownership as the European Union seeks to limit the industry’s
influence and tackle conflicts of interest.  French bonds and U.S. Treasuries both made gains after
those countries were stripped of their AAA credit ratings, in a
signal that downgrades may have little bearing on a nation’s
borrowing costs.  In  Australia , the so-called Rembrandt notes plunged in
value as global credit markets froze and the towns lost 90
percent of their investments. Australia federal court Justice
Jayne Jagot in Sydney yesterday scheduled a hearing for Feb. 21
before she issues final orders in the case and determines how
much to award the towns to compensate them for their losses and
costs of the lawsuit.  S&P failed to factor in events linked to the underlying
assets of some synthetic CDOs and didn’t downgrade the credit
ratings for those products in a timely manner, the FSA said. The
watchdog said it also found problems with S&P’s controls for
publicly disseminating information as it issued an incorrect
credit rating and published errors in press releases.  No Trust  “Investors often rely on ratings by agencies like S&P for
complicated securities such as CDOs,” Tsuyoshi Ueno, a Tokyo-
based senior economist at NLI Research Institute, said by
telephone yesterday. “Now what can they trust?”  The FSA will require S&P to implement preventive measures
for the problems its review identified and submit reports within
15 days of the end of each quarter, according to the watchdog’s
statement. The regulator gave it until Jan. 18 to submit its
first report.  S&P’s Japan representative director has voluntarily agreed
to a 50 percent pay cut for three months, the company said. A
range of salary reductions for some staff will be made in
accordance with Japanese law, it said. The company also plans to
issue a manual on procedures for reviewing and updating SCDO
ratings by next month.  Yesterday’s order is a result of the first inspection of
the company by the Securities and Exchange Surveillance
Commission since S&P’s local unit registered in September 2010,
S&P said in a statement on its website. It opened the Tokyo
office in 1985.  “We take this matter very seriously and sincerely
apologize to clients and market participants for the issues that
led to the recommendation and order,” S&P said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  