-- Samsung Supplier Hired Underage Workers, Forced Overtime
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   L u l u   C h e n
-- 2012-12-14T20:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/samsung-supplier-hired-underage-workers-forced-overtime-working.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  supplier
HTNS Shenzhen Co. has employed at least three girls under the
legal working age of 16 in  China , according to a report from
labor-rights group  China Labor Watch .  The group also found instances of forced overtime and said
that tightly shut windows resulted in poor air quality and a
lack of proper ventilation at HTNS, a maker of mobile-phone
covers in Huizhou City.  “The factory uses labor dispatch companies to hire a
portion of its workers,” China Labor Watch said. “Some of
these companies, for their own economic interests, will create
fraudulent IDs in order to get child labor into HTNS, and HTNS
doesn’t carry out strict verifications.”  Samsung is the largest maker of smartphones and, like other
manufacturers such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , has come under scrutiny for
the way its component suppliers treat workers.  In response to earlier China Labor Watch reports, the
company in September conducted an audit of 105 Chinese suppliers
and didn’t find any instance of underage workers, it said in a
Nov. 26  statement .  Samsung uncovered “inadequate practices” including excess
overtime, and said it was taking steps to correct labor issues
and to audit an additional 144 suppliers by the end of the year.  Adam Yates, a U.S.-based spokesman for Samsung, declined to
comment beyond the company’s November statement.  “It is impossible for us to hire child labor,” said Han
Jang Seok, South China Managing Director of HTNS. He said that
the company goes through a strict process to ensure that its
employees are above the legal working age of 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  