-- Sanofi Cholesterol Drug With Isis Fails to Win EU Backing
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-12-14T16:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/sanofi-cholesterol-drug-with-isis-fails-to-win-eu-backing.html
Sanofi (SAN)  and  Isis Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ISIS) 
failed to win European Union regulatory backing for a drug to
treat patients with a rare disorder that causes run-away levels
of the fat-like substance cholesterol.  The medicine, Kynamro, shouldn’t be allowed on the market
because it leads to flu-like symptoms and liver damage that
deter patients from sticking with treatment, the  European
Medicines Agency  said in a  statement  today. The European
Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm, usually adopts the
advice from the agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for
Human Use. The companies will request a re-examination of the
opinion, Paris-based Sanofi said in a statement.  “We are disappointed,” David Meeker, chief executive
officer of Sanofi’s Genzyme unit, said in the statement. “We
will work closely with the CHMP during the re-examination
process to address the committee’s concerns, with the goal of
making this important medication available.”  Sanofi,  France ’s biggest drugmaker, gained access to the
product in April 2011 when it completed the $20.1 billion
purchase of U.S. biotechnology company Genzyme Corp. The French
company needs new treatments to replenish its drug pipeline and
make up for sales declines caused by generic competition to some
of its biggest products, such as the Plavix blood thinner. The
treatment, also known as mipomersen, in October won the backing
of U.S. regulatory advisers.  ’Half Surprise’  Sanofi rose 0.1 percent to 71.80 euros at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Paris. Carlsbad, California-based Isis shares advanced
2.4 percent to $9.84 in U.S.  trading  after falling as much as
6.9 percent earlier in the session.  “It’s only a half surprise,” Philippe Lanone, an analyst
at Natixis in Paris, said by telephone. Among the drugs in
Sanofi’s pipeline, Kynamro “was the one for which approval was
most at risk, given its side-effect profile.”  Sanofi and Isis have been seeking clearance for mipomersen
to treat patients with an inherited condition known as
homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, or HoFH, who don’t
respond to standard drugs such as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Lipitor.  Liver Damage  “A high proportion of patients stopped taking the medicine
within two years,” mainly because of side effects including
flu-like symptoms and liver toxicity, the CHMP said today. The
committee “was not convinced that the company had proposed
sufficient measures to prevent the risk of irreversible liver
damage.”  The agency also said patients taking Kynamro experienced
“serious” problems with the heart and blood vessels.  “This prevented the CHMP from concluding that Kynamro’s
intended cardiovascular benefit, in terms of reducing
cholesterol levels, outweighed its cardiovascular risk,” the
EMA said in the statement.  HoFH is caused by a gene mutation that keeps the body from
clearing a form of cholesterol known as LDL from the
bloodstream. People with the disorder have high cholesterol
levels from birth, and suffer from heart attacks at an early
age. The disease affects about 300 people in the U.S., said Eric Le Berrigaud, an analyst at Bryan Garnier & Co. in Paris.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  is scheduled to make
a decision on Kynamro by the end of January. Advisers to the FDA
voted 9-6 in favor of the treatment on Oct. 18 at a meeting in
 Silver Spring ,  Maryland , saying Sanofi and Isis provided
sufficient data on the medicine’s safety and efficacy. The FDA
isn’t obliged to follow the panel’s recommendation.  High levels of LDL or “bad” cholesterol are a source of
blockages in the arteries, according to the  National Institutes
of Health .  Genzyme bought a stake in Isis as part of a deal to license
Kynamro in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  