-- Scene in D.C.: ‘Downton Abbey’ Fans, Ireland Sandy Aid
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-12-14T16:32:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/scene-in-d-c-downton-abbey-fans-ireland-sandy-aid.html
Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) 
Chairman and Chief Executive Ralph Shrader is a fan of PBS
series “Downton Abbey,” nominated for three Golden Globes this
week.  His favorite character, played by Jim Carter, is Charlie
Carson, who represents the “prototypical Brit butler,” Shrader
said.  He got to meet Carter during last night’s cast party at the
home of British Ambassador  Peter Westmacott .  Other fans included Carlyle Group Management LLC co-founder
William E. Conway Jr., Secretary of Health and Human Services
 Kathleen Sebelius , Senator  Kirsten Gillibrand , New York
Democrat, and Mars Inc.’s Jacqueline Badger Mars.  Badger Mars said she is producing a feature about
equestrian artist Alfred Munnings with Dan Stevens, who plays
Matthew Crawley in “Downtown Abbey.”  Westmacott joked that he wanted the Earl of Grantham,
Downton’s master, portrayed by Hugh Bonneville, to “feel right
at home” with a full liquor bar provided by  Diageo Plc. (DGE)   The cast mingled with guests before taking questions on
everything from the program’s plotlines to their favorite
football clubs.  “Liverpool,” said Bonneville.  Male Nude  The federal budget negotiations and the power struggles
within the Italian government were eclipsed Wednesday night by
the presence of a sculpture by Michelangelo.  Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  and Italian Foreign Affairs
Minister Giulio Terzi di Sant’Agata were at the National Gallery
of Art for a reception and unveiling of “David-Apollo,” a
marble male nude created around 1530.  The museum’s director Earl Powell III called the sculpture
an “exceptionally welcome guest” as it inaugurates the “Anno
Della Cultura Italiana,” or “Year of Italian Culture” in the
U.S.  “David-Apollo” made his first trip to the nation’s
capital in 1949 for President Truman’s inaugural festivities.
His home is in Florence at the Museo Nazionale del Bargello.  “I’m proud to be an Italian every day,” said Pelosi, in a
bright-red trouser suit. Also at the event were her
congressional colleagues Rosa DeLauro, Connecticut Democrat, and
William Pascrell, New Jersey Democrat.  Supreme Court Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  served herself
from a buffet offering polenta, meatballs and cannoli.  “David-Apollo” will be at the gallery through March 3.  Putin’s Appreciation  Russian Ambassador Sergey I. Kislyak hosted a dinner at his
residence Tuesday night for James Billington, Librarian of
Congress, author of books about Russia and one of the few
American members of the Russian Academy of Sciences.  Kislyak presented Billington with a certificate of
appreciation from Russian President  Vladimir Putin .  The grand reception room sparkled with holiday decor.
Dinner for 80 consisted of spinach-stuffed chicken and fruit
mousse. The centerpieces featured white lilies and roses wrapped
in pearl strands.  Among the guests were U.S. Chief of Protocol Capricia
Penavic Marshall, National Endowment for the Humanities Chairman
James Leach, and Representative Gregory Meeks, New York
Democrat, and the co-chairman of the bipartisan caucus on U.S.-
Russian trade and economic relations.  Irish Gift  Representative  Peter King , a New York Republican, was the
guest of honor at a reception hosted by Ambassador  Michael Collins  at the Irish Embassy. The evening honored Irish
organizations that have aided victims of  Hurricane Sandy  in New
York and New Jersey communities with a high number of Irish-
Americans.  Collins announced a gift from the Irish government of
$322,000 to Staten Island, Breezy Point and neighborhoods along
the Jersey Shore. The American Ireland Fund has given $250,000
for relief efforts.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater, Frederik
Balfour on  art .  To contact the writer on this story:
 Stephanie Green  in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 