-- Schlumberger Falls After Lower Earnings Forecast: Houston Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-12-14T21:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/schlumberger-falls-after-lower-earnings-forecast-houston-mover.html
  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s
largest oilfield-services provider, fell the most in more than a
year after saying it expects earnings per share to fall because
of delays and slowing activity in its two  largest  regional
units.  Schlumberger fell 5 percent to $68.91 at the close in  New
York , the biggest drop since Sept. 22, 2011.  Earnings per share are expected to fall by 5 to 7 cents in
the fourth quarter because of contractual delays in Europe,
Africa and the  Commonwealth of Independent States  and weaker
than expected drilling onshore U.S. and in western Canada, the
Houston and Paris-based company said today in a statement.  “The issues in Europe/CIS/Africa are more surprising,”
 Scott Gruber , an analyst at  Sanford Bernstein  in New York, wrote
today in a note to investors. “This is likely impacting the
stock more than  North America .”  Before today’s announcement, analysts expected Schlumberger
to report an average $1.14 a share, after one-time items,
according to 31 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The region that includes Europe and Africa generated the
second-highest regional sales with $2.99 billion in the third
quarter. Revenue there was “partially” lower due to local
delays and rig start-ups in North Africa, the company said Oct.
19 when it announced third-quarter results.  ‘Not Uncommon’  “Contractual delays in this region are not uncommon and
can be severely dilutive to margins,” Charles Minervino, an
analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group, wrote in a note to
investors.  The U.S. and Canada unit generated the most sales at $3.29
billion in the third quarter. The number of  rigs  active onshore
in the U.S. has fallen 2.8 percent since the end of the third
quarter, according to  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)   Schlumberger, which climbed 6.2 percent this year before
today, has scheduled a conference call to discuss earnings on
Jan. 18 at 9 a.m. New York time. The shares have 35 buys and 4
hold ratings from analysts, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  