-- Scots Funds Hunt Stocks to Beat Pessimism Lasting Into 2013
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-12-14T09:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/scottish-funds-hunt-stocks-to-beat-pessimism-enduring-into-2013.html
Scotland’s biggest investors are
scouring Europe for stocks that can prosper in the economic
slump they reckon won’t end anytime soon.  That’s made  Amadeus IT Holding SA (AMS) , a Spanish operator of
travel booking systems, goods inspector  Bureau Veritas SA (BVI)  and
 Gemalto NV (GTO) , a digital security firm based in Paris, picks for
2013, according to money managers helping oversee a combined 492
billion pounds ($794 billion).  “You have got years ahead of zero or little growth,” Ben Ritchie, a  fund manager  at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc,
Scotland’s largest money manager, said in an interview two days
ago. “The strong companies will continue to get stronger and
the weak businesses will continue to get weaker.”  The euro-area economy went into recession in the third
quarter for the second time in four years after the regional
debt crisis led to five countries requiring international aid.
Europe’s economic malaise is deepening as governments impose
budget cuts to narrow their deficits.  The  European Central Bank  cut its forecasts for the region
on Dec. 6, saying it will shrink 0.3 percent next year, from an
earlier estimate of 0.5 percent growth.  Growth Focus  “We have tended to prioritize companies that can grow
their businesses irrespective of the macroeconomic
environment,” Greig Bryson, who manages European Stocks at
 Scottish Widows Investment Partnership  in Edinburgh, said in an
interview. “That focus on growth has worked very well.”  That approach prompted Scottish Widows Investment to invest
in health-care companies such as  Essilor International SA (EI)  and
 Fresenius Medical Care AG (FME)  along with Bureau Veritas, the world’s
second-largest goods-inspection company, Bryson said.  Bureau Veritas, which has gained 52 percent so far this
year, “is just a play on increasing international trade and
increasing regulation,” said Bryson, whose company is part of
Lloyds Banking Group and oversaw 142 billion pounds as of Sept.
30, with 6.5 billion pounds of that in European stocks.  Essilor has risen 42 percent in the year to date while
Fresenius has gained 2 percent.  The firm has less invested in European banks than compared
with benchmarks as lenders in the region haven’t yet started the
process of recognizing bad debts, in contrast to the U.S. and
the U.K., Bryson said. In financial services, the fund manager
added to its holdings in insurers  Allianz SE (ALV)  and AXA SA.  Euro Concerns  Europe has provided some of the best stock performances of
2012 even as investors speculated about the possible
disintegration of the euro, Mikhail Zverev, head of global
equities at Edinburgh-based  Standard Life Investments , which
runs 163 billion pounds, said in an e-mailed statement.  Since Sept. 5, the day before ECB President  Mario Draghi 
unveiled the Outright Monetary Transactions program, the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index has risen 5.3 percent through yesterday, faster
than the 4.8 percent gain in FTSE 100 Index in the U.K. or the
1.1 percent rise in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  in the U.S.  “While investors have fretted about euro-zone break-up,
the region has generated some of the most remarkable stock
stories of 2012,” Zverev said on Dec. 7.  Gemalto, a Paris-based digital security firm that makes
semiconductors and software enabling products such as electronic
passports and chip and pin bank cards, is one example, Zverev
said. Gemalto, which Standard Life bought earlier this year, has
almost doubled in value in 2012, compared with a 15 percent gain
in the CAC All-Share Index.  France, Spain  Zverev also highlighted  CFAO SA (CFAOT) , a Sevres, France-based
auto and drugs distributor that rose 41 percent in 2012 ahead of
an Aug. 28 offer from Toyota Tsusho Corp., the trading arm of
Japan’s largest carmaker. Standard Life has since sold the
stock. He also named Spanish health-care company  Grifols SA (GRF) ,
whose shares have almost doubled this year.  Both are examples of where strong company specifics
prevailed over sentiment toward the economy, he said.  Aberdeen (ADN) , which is headquartered in the northeast Scottish
city of the same name, oversaw 187 billion pounds as of Sept.
30. It bought Amadeus, a Madrid-based maker of software for
airlines. The stock has jumped 46 percent so far in 2012.  More recently, it bought  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) , Sweden’s
second-largest bank by market value, as well as adding to
holdings in  Swedish Match AB (SWMA) , a maker of snuff, and  Kongsberg
Gruppen ASA (KOG) , the Norwegian developer of a missile for the F-35
fighter aircraft, said Ritchie.  Handelsbanken is up 29 percent this year, while Swedish
Match is down 7.6 percent and Kongsberg is almost unchanged.
Aberdeen added to its Swedish Match holding following a decline
of 13 percent over two days at the end of October when the
company said fourth-quarter operating profit would be lower than
a year earlier, Ritchie said.  “We have not bought or sold as much this year as we
thought,” he said from his office in  London . “We expected this
year to be a bit tougher than it was.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  