-- Senate Republicans Said to Discuss Tax Cut Fallback Plans
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-12-14T21:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/senate-republicans-said-to-discuss-tax-cut-fallback-plans.html
Senate Republicans are discussing a
legislative strategy to break the U.S. budget stalemate that
would let Congress extend tax cuts for all except the highest
income levels, said two Republican aides who spoke on condition
of anonymity.  Under this scenario, the Republican-controlled House would
vote on two separate bills, the aides said. One would extend tax
cuts for all income levels. That would have wide Republican
support though President  Barack Obama  has said he won’t accept
it.  The other bill would allow tax cuts for top earners to
expire, as Obama demands. Democrats would support that plan and
Republicans would be likely to provide enough votes to pass it
in the House, one aide said. The Democratic-controlled Senate
would pass and send that measure to Obama, the aide said.  Such an approach would let Republicans go on record in
support of extending all of the George W. Bush-era tax cuts even
as enough of them would join Democrats to pass Obama’s plan.  Obama and House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican ,
met at the White House yesterday for almost an hour to discuss
the budget, with no public announcement of progress. In January,
more than $600 billion in spending cuts and tax increases, the
so-called fiscal cliff, are scheduled to begin unless the
president and Congress agree on a way to avert them.  ‘Lot of Ideas’  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  declined to comment
on the possible strategy, saying “there are a lot of ideas
floated” at the Capitol.  “What we have yet to see is a proposal of any kind with
any kind of specificity,” Carney said.  Stocks fell, as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.4
percent to 1,413.71 at 4 p.m.  New York  time. Treasuries rose for
the first time in four days as consumer prices fell. The yield
on the 10-year note decreased two basis points to 1.71 percent
after rising earlier to 1.75 percent, the highest
level since Nov. 7.  Yesterday’s White House meeting, which included Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner , didn’t close the gap between Obama’s
demand for higher taxes for top earners and Boehner’s call for
deeper spending cuts, said a Republican congressional aide who
spoke on condition of anonymity.  Obama’s wants to extend tax cuts now for income up to
$200,000 a year for individuals and $250,000 for married
couples. Some Senate Republicans have discussed acceding to
Obama’s demand if the president and Boehner can’t reach a budget
deal by year’s end.  ‘Off the Table’  “It seems to me getting that off the table would be
helpful,” Maine Republican Senator Susan Collins said in an
interview. “Everyone agrees that should be done.”  Several  House Republicans , notably Oklahoma Representative
Tom Cole, have suggested allowing the top rates to increase as a
legislative tactic.  Boehner spokesman  Mike Steel  declined to comment. Boehner,
during his weekly news conference yesterday, didn’t rule out
allowing a House vote on extending tax cuts for income up to
$250,000 a year for married couples, as Obama has demanded, if a
broader tax-and-spending deal isn’t reached soon.  “The law of the land today is that everyone’s income taxes
are going to go up on Jan. 1,” Boehner said when asked by
reporters if he would rule out such a vote. “I have made it
clear I think that is unacceptable. Until we get this issue
resolved, that risk remains.”  Protecting Jobs  Don Stewart , a spokesman for Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, said in an e-mail today that
“Republicans will continue to look for ways to protect American
families and jobs while strengthening entitlement programs and
continuing to advocate for the types of intelligent reforms in
 Washington  spending that the president has yet to propose.”  McConnell “does not advocate raising taxes on anybody or
anything,” Stewart said.  Sixty-five percent of Americans say Obama has a mandate for
his plan to increase taxes for top earners, according to a
Bloomberg National Poll of 1,000 adults conducted Dec. 7-10.  Obama and congressional Democrats say they won’t discuss
spending cuts unless Republicans agree to higher tax rates for
top earners. Republicans are insisting on reductions to
entitlement programs such as Medicare.  White House and congressional officials told their staffs
this week that they may be spending the holidays in Washington,
as both sides publicly refused to budge from their positions.
Boehner is traveling to his home state of  Ohio  for the weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  