-- Sessions Says Republicans Open to Tax-Entitlements Trade
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-12-15T05:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/sessions-says-republicans-open-to-tax-entitlements-trade.html
The incoming House Rules Committee
chairman says congressional Republicans would be willing to
accept an increase in tax rates for top earners if Democrats
make significant reductions in entitlement programs such as
Social Security and Medicare.  “If it’s a good deal, yes,” Representative Pete Sessions
of Texas said on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital With
 Al Hunt ,” when asked whether he’d accept a trade-off involving
tax rates. “If it does something long term that betters the
circumstances.”  Sessions is a close ally of House Speaker  John Boehner , the
 Ohio Republican  who named him as chairman of the committee that
determines which bills reach the House floor. He said Boehner
was committed to reaching a deal with President  Barack Obama  to
avoid the more than $600 billion in tax increases and spending
cuts scheduled to take effect beginning next month.  “It takes both sides,” Sessions said in the interview
airing this weekend. “The president would have to do equally as
we do.”  Boehner returned to yesterday, following a Dec. 13 meeting
with Obama that ended with no public indication that the two
were moving closer to a deal.  Clinton Rates  Obama has called for  tax rates  on household incomes
exceeding $250,000 a year to revert as scheduled next year to
those during the administration of President  Bill Clinton , who
left office in January 2001 with a  budget surplus . The top tax
rate would rise to 39.6 percent from 35 percent now.  Senate Republicans were discussing a plan to have the House
pass two bills, one extending the expiring tax cuts for everyone
and one for all but high earners. The Democratic-controlled
Senate would pass the second measure and send it to Obama for
his signature, while congressional Republicans could go on
record in support of extending all of the tax cuts.  Congressional Republicans, while calling for cuts in
entitlement programs, have yet to propose the specific
reductions. They have agreed to $800 billion in revenue by
curbing unspecified tax breaks while insisting on an extension
of all of the Bush-era tax cuts scheduled to expire next month.  Among the options discussed on the entitlement issue are
raising the eligibility age for Medicare, the health-care
program for the elderly, to 67 from 65, and using a less-
generous measure of inflation to curb automatic increases in
 Social Security  payments to beneficiaries.  Democrats Needed  Representative Steve LaTourette, an Ohio Republican, has
said Boehner could gather the 218 House votes needed to send a
tax increase to the Democratic-majority Senate if about 120
Democrats “buy in” on changes to the Medicare eligibility age
or the Social Security cost-of-living formula.  Earlier this month, Oklahoma Representative Tom Cole was
the first high-profile Republican to say his party should lock
in the 2001 and 2003 income tax cuts for 98 percent of Americans
by the end of the year and allow them to expire for the top 2
percent of earners. Some other Republicans have said they agree.  Sessions, the outgoing chairman of the  National Republican
Congressional Committee , said the party’s lawmakers aren’t
worried about being challenged in primaries if they raise taxes
under a deal that cuts spending, reduces the  deficit  and helps
the economy.  Time Constraints  He said there wouldn’t be enough time to enact legislation
by the end of the year; instead, both sides could agree to a
specific outline and enact it next year.  “We’re not going to do something in the dark, late at
night where no one knows what the practical effect and outcome
is,” Sessions said. “If we do that, we do get primaried. We
can come to a specific agreement.”  Sessions said that there wouldn’t be enough time to also
include a spending bill for the remainder of the fiscal year and
an increase in the  debt  ceiling in the current talks. He said
Republicans were willing to discuss those issues later.  “The president needs to know that we’re willing to
negotiate,” he said.  Surveys show public support for Obama’s call for allowing
the tax cuts to expire for top earners, a centerpiece of his
successful re-election campaign. Almost half of Republicans said
Obama had an election mandate to raise rates on the rich,
according to a Bloomberg National Poll conducted Dec. 7-10.  Sessions turned aside those findings. “The debate’s still
alive and well in America,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 h@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 