-- Silver Bay Falls After Raising $245 Million in Offering
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-12-14T21:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/silver-bay-little-changed-after-raising-245-million-in-offering.html
Silver Bay Realty Trust Corp. (SBY) , a
real estate company that buys and manages single-family rental
homes, slipped 1.4 percent after raising $245 million in an
initial public offering.  The Minnetonka, Minnesota-based company and shareholders
sold 13.25 million shares for $18.50 each, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, after offering them for $18 to $20.
The stock dropped to $18.24 at the close of  New York  trading.  Silver Bay went public as investment firms pour money into
single-family properties, coinciding with an almost 30 percent
drop in home prices from a July 2006 peak. At the same time,
there is growing rental demand from homeowners who lost property
to foreclosure and are unable to buy, said Ray Huang, an analyst
with Green Street Advisors Inc.  “Having the ability to go public and access the public
markets, including the debt market down the road, will help
companies grow,” Huang said in a telephone interview from his
office in Newport Beach,  California .  Led by Chief Executive Officer David Miller, a former U.S.
Treasury Department official and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
executive, Silver Bay was formed by  Two Harbors Investment Corp. (TWO) 
to buy, renovate, lease and manage single-family properties. It
will be the largest public real estate investment trust
concentrating on single-family homes.  Credit Suisse Group AG, Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. led the offering. The shares are listed on the New
York Stock Exchange under the symbol SBY.  Silver Bay will use the proceeds from the IPO to acquire
more than 3,100 single-family properties, according to
regulatory filings. Silver Bay’s portfolio consists of 2,540
single-family properties in Arizona, California, Florida,
 Georgia ,  Nevada , North Carolina and Texas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  