-- Silver Bay Raises $245 Million in Single-Family REIT IPO
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-12-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/silver-bay-raises-245-million-in-single-family-reit-ipo.html
Silver Bay Realty Trust Corp. (SBY) , a
real estate company that acquires and manages single-family
rental homes, raised $245 million in its initial public offering
after pricing the shares near the low end of the marketed range.  The Minnetonka, Minnesota-based company and shareholders
sold 13.25 million shares for $18.50 each, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, after offering them for $18 to $20. The
shares will start trading today, listed on the  New York  Stock
Exchange under the symbol SBY.  Silver Bay is going public at a time when investment firms
are pouring money into single-family properties as  home prices 
have fallen almost 30 percent from their July 2006 peak. At the
same time, there is growing rental demand from homeowners who
lost property to foreclosure and are unable to buy, said Ray
Huang, an analyst with Green Street Advisors Inc.  “Having the ability to go public and access the public
markets, including the  debt market  down the road, will help
companies grow,” Huang said in a telephone interview from his
office in Newport Beach, California.  Led by Chief Executive Officer  David Miller , a former U.S.
Treasury Department official and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
executive, Silver Bay was formed by  Two Harbors Investment Corp. (TWO) 
to buy, renovate, lease and manage single-family properties. It
will be the largest public real estate investment trust
concentrating on single-family homes.  Silver Bay will use the proceeds from the IPO to acquire
more than 3,100 single-family properties, according to
regulatory filings. Silver Bay’s portfolio consists of 2,540
single-family properties in Arizona, California, Florida,
Georgia, Nevada,  North Carolina  and Texas.  Tax Benefits  Private-equity firms such as Blackstone Group LP and Thomas Barrack’s Colony Capital LLC are also making bets on single-
family homes, and have raised about $8 billion to buy rentals,
Huang said.  REITs are the most efficient model for taking single-family
rental investments public because of their tax benefits and
because the properties are similar to multifamily rentals, which
already have a track record as REITs, Todd Eagle, a managing
director at Goldman Sachs, said at a conference organized by
Information Management Network last month in Scottsdale,
Arizona.  REITs, whose primary income streams are from real estate,
don’t pay federal income taxes. In exchange, they’re required by
the  Internal Revenue Service  to distribute at least 90 percent
of their taxable earnings to shareholders in the form of
dividends.  To qualify as a REIT, a company must invest at least 75
percent of its assets in real estate and obtain 75 percent of
its gross income from rents or interest on mortgages from
financing property, according to the National Association of
Real Estate Investment Trusts.  Credit Suisse Group AG, Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. led the offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  