-- Sojitz Sees Beyond Rare Earths in Non-Nuclear Japan
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2012-12-14T06:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/sojitz-sees-beyond-rare-earths-to-lng-solar-in-non-atomic-japan.html
Sojitz Corp. (2768) , Japan’s top trader of
rare earths, plans to tap into the nation’s shift from nuclear
power by setting up its own liquefied natural gas business and
building solar plants, said Chief Executive Officer Yoji Sato.  The smallest of Japan’s six major trading houses, Sojitz is
a minority shareholder in gas and LNG projects in Indonesia and
Qatar, and is now considering independent investments in Nigeria,
Australia and  Canada , Sato said in an interview in  Tokyo  Dec. 11.  “We need to invest in new assets and from here on we’d
like to invest as ourselves, as Sojitz,” Sato said.  The 2011 Fukushima disaster has left most of Japan’s atomic
capacity idled while gas’s share of the power mix this year
climbed to about 50 percent, the highest of the world’s top 10
energy users. That’s led to an unprecedented shortfall in
Japan’s LNG supplies through 2017 and pushed cargo prices to a
two-year high, according to data from Tri-Zen International Inc.,
which estimates that the country has long-term contracts to
cover 76 percent of its needs this year.  Annual demand will outstrip supply until 2017, when gas
from new export projects in Australia and the U.S. boost Japan’s
contracted volumes, Singapore-based research firm Tri-Zen
estimates. Meanwhile, Japan’s utilities plan to build an extra
24,000 megawatts of gas-fired capacity, an increase of 40
percent, within a decade, according to government  reports .  Traders Lead  Along with Inpex Corp., Japan’s top energy explorer, the
country’s investments in new oil and gas fields are led by its
major trading houses, which include  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) ,  Mitsui &
Co. (8031) ,  Itochu Corp. (8001) ,  Sumitomo Corp (8053) , and  Marubeni Corp. (8002)  The five
traders in 2012 pledged at least $30 billion to develop new gas
deposits, according to company data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a capital intensive industry and the price tag for a
10 percent stake will be around $1 billion to $2 billion” for a
project in Australia, followed by $2 billion in costs to develop
the field, said  Neil Beveridge , an analyst with Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in  Hong Kong . An undeveloped asset today is not
likely to begin producing before 2018 to 2020, he said.  Sojitz’s main involvement in the gas industry has been via
its LNG Japan Corp. venture with Tokyo-based Sumitomo, which
owns 7.4 percent of Indonesia’s Tangguh LNG, 4.4 percent of an
oil and gas block in the the East Kalimantan project in the same
country, and 3 percent of the Ras Laffan LNG Co. of Qatar.  The scale of Sojitz’s gas industry participation may now
change to meet growing demand for a cleaner alternative to coal
from utilities, Sato said.  “We’ll do a wholesale review by the end of March of what
opportunities there are in North American shale gas, including
in the chemicals businesses,” Sato said.  Shale Revolution  The shale revolution in the U.S. has made it the world’s
largest producer of gas and lowered the domestic price for the
fuel to less than a fifth of that paid by Japan, the world’s top
LNG importer. The surge in the U.S. means the energy resources
of Canada may be easier to access, Sato said.  “Canada should be welcoming to any country’s companies
that want to develop assets there,” Sato said. “Canada used to
be a gas exporter to the U.S., but with the gas revolution it’s
become superfluous. What you do with the large resources now is
a big issue.”  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  approved  Cnooc
Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion takeover of  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  to mark the biggest
Chinese overseas acquisition. The deal, which gives Beijing-
based Cnooc a stake in Canada’s largest oil-sands project, also
prompted Harper to warn that the nation won’t approve any more
oil-sand takeovers by state-owned companies, except in
“exceptional circumstances.”  Australia Expensive  Elsewhere, Sojitz is weighing the high-cost development of
Australia’s gas resources with the low country risk, Sato said.
In Nigeria, the parameters are reversed yet the nation’s rich
resources make it attractive and Sojitz would invest there if an
opportunity presents itself, he said.  Investments in Australia will not come cheap.  “The industry looks increasingly challenged owing to
rising costs and issues with project execution,”  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  said in a Dec. 11 report. “Australasian projects
stand out for their position at the upper end of the curve. We
believe the LNG winners are those companies with advantaged
exposure to low cost projects or with an attractive existing
long-life portfolio of projects.”  Sojitz had 441.4 billion yen ($5.3 billion)  in cash  at the
end of the last fiscal year on March 31. The stock fell 0.9
percent to 112 yen in Tokyo at 9:04 a.m., extending this year’s
decline to 5.9 percent. Mitsubishi was little changed for the
year, while Mitsui was down 2.3 percent in the period.  Gas-Fired Profits  To capture gas profits along the value chain Sojitz plans
to build gas-fired  power plants  in Oman and Saudi Arabia
together with  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA unit International Power Plc. and is
in talks to develop a station in  Mongolia , Sato said. As other
such opportunities come up Sojitz will consider them, he said.  “Electricity and infrastructure is an area that we’ll
strengthen from now on,” Sato said.  Another way for Sojitz to meet the changing energy needs of
Japan will be via renewables.  Sojitz wants to build five solar power plants totaling
about 100 megawatts, including on the northern isle of Hokkaido
and in  Kagoshima prefecture , western Japan, Sato said. The
trader aims to register the projects with the government by the
end of March, he said.  Japan introduced this year the world’s highest payment rate
for renewable energy, known as a feed-in tariff, as a way to
stimulate investments in solar, wind and biomass generation and
ease reliance on nuclear power. The tariff rate will be revised
from April.  ‘Easy’ Business  “With a fixed feed-in tariff the economics set up has
become very easy to understand,” Sato said.  The current low cost of raw materials for solar panels and
Sojitz’s experience with three solar energy projects in  Germany 
should help the trader set up an efficient business in Japan,
Sato said. The company has since sold one of the projects, he
said.  Sojitz commissioned a 24 megawatt solar plant in Mixdorf in
July 2011 and completed a 3 megawatt station in Betzweiler in
May 2010, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance data.  Cotton Seller  The Japanese trading house traces its roots back to 1892
when its predecessor sold cotton before moving into shipbuilding,
commodity trading and machinery sales. Nissho Iwai Corp., which
in 2004 merged with Nichimen Corp. to create Sojitz, was an
early investor in  Nike Inc. (NKE) , lending capital to the U.S. sport
company’s co-founder Philip H. Knight at the start of the 1970s.  Today, the trading house tries to balance its investments
in metals and energy equally with those in non-resource areas
such as utilities, retail and food, Sato said. Sojitz Group, of
which the trading house is the center, consists of 483 units,
133 of which are in Japan, and has 16,467 staff.  Sojitz posted 27 billion yen ($346 million) in net income
from its energy and minerals business, its biggest earner, in
the year ending March 31, when it reported a 3.65 billion yen
loss due to writedowns from corporate tax law changes. Last
month Sojitz cut its profit forecast for this year by half to 10
billion yen on lower commodity prices and demand.  New Businesses  The Tokyo-based trading company is looking for new
businesses as Japanese demand for rare earths drops to 20,000
metric tons a year, from 30,000 tons previously, Sato said.  In rare earths, Sojitz is evaluating two investment options,
one a mining project for a radioactive material, and the other
for a Chinese asset where the material is lodged in clay, Sato
said. The latter doesn’t involve much radioactivity and will be
simple to process, he said.  “What’s good about the Chinese project is that on top of
having heavy rare earth metals, there’s low radiation,” he said,
declining to give more details as talks still continue.  Rare earths are 17 chemically similar metallic elements
used in rechargeable batteries,  wind turbines  and electric
vehicles. The metals are often found close to deposits of
uranium and thorium, which are used to make nuclear fuel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  