-- Southern Copper Unions to Strike Dec. 24 as Wage Talks Fail
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-12-14T22:15:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/southern-copper-unions-to-strike-dec-24-as-wage-talks-fail-1-.html
Workers at  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) ,
the largest producer of the metal in Peru, plan their first
strike in four years on Dec. 24 after wage talks broke down, a
union official said.  Unions from the company’s Cuajone and Toquepala copper
mines and Ilo smelter presented the date at the Labor Ministry
today after the company refused to accept a request for a 15
percent annual pay rise, smelter union official Ricardo Juarez
said. The Phoenix-based company, which is seeking a four-year
accord, offered a 5.5 percent annual wage increase, he said.  “The company has dug in its feet and refuses to make a
better offer,” Juarez said in a telephone interview from  Lima .
“It’s regrettable that Christmas will be soured for both
workers and the company.”  Workers in  Peru , Bolivia and Chile have held work stoppages
at copper, zinc, iron and  gold mines  this year to seek a bigger
percentage of company earnings. Peru’s Mining Federation plans a
national strike in February.  Southern Copper  workers last held a
strike in 2008.  The company is prepared to renew negotiations with union
officials, Alberto Giles, a spokesman, said.  “The will for dialogue is always there,” Giles said in a
telephone interview from Ilo, Peru. “We’re now waiting for the
conciliation process” brokered by the Labor Ministry, he said.  Southern Copper, which also operates mines in Mexico, plans
to invest $2.1 billion in upgrades and a new mine in Peru in a
bid to double annual output to more than 1 million metric tons.
Peru is the world’s largest copper producer after Chile.  Southern Copper rose 1.1 percent to $38.20 at the close in
New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Emery  in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  