-- Starwood Books Upgrade as Hotel Demand Slows: Corporate Finance
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-12-14T19:51:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/starwood-books-upgrade-as-hotel-demand-slows-corporate-finance.html
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. (HOT) , which is selling assets and cutting interest costs to
protect its investment-grade rating as it faces slowing demand
for lodging, is already getting an upgrade in the  bond market .  The company’s bonds yield 151 basis points, or 1.51
percentage points, more than similar-maturity Treasuries, closer
to the 126 basis-point spread on debt rated A than the 209 basis
points on its own BBB category. Starwood, which operates the W
chain of luxury hotels, sold $350 million of 3.125 percent, 10-
year bonds this month and will use the money together with some
its $650 million in cash to retire $559.2 million of debt with
coupons at least twice as high.  Starwood, which has been selling hotels as it seeks to
increase the percentage of profit it generates from fees, has
chopped its leverage  ratio  to a decade-low of 1.8 times from
4.51 times in the third quarter of 2009, a year in which the
global economy contracted 2.4 percent. The company plans to
generate 65 percent of its earnings from fees, Chief Executive
Officer Frits van Paasschen said on an Oct. 25 conference call.  “They are certainly better positioned now than they were
in 2008,” Chris Snow, an analyst at bond researcher
CreditSights Inc., said in a telephone interview from  New York .
“Clearly, you would see some stress in terms of room rates and
occupancies, but they have a pretty nice buffer if the cycle
were to turn against them.”  Investment Grade  Starwood regained its investment-grade  ranking  this year
after being cut to junk when revenue slumped in 2009. Yield data
from Moody’s Corp. indicates the  Stamford , Connecticut-based
company should be rated A3 instead of its current Baa2 grade.  The hotel operator has been selling real estate in a bid to
focus on management operations driven by fees, which are less
susceptible to decline in economic downturns than revenue from
owning buildings.  “We’ve reduced the inherent risk in our business model,”
van Paasschen said during the Oct. 25 call with investors and
analysts. “The fee business is far less volatile.”  K.C. Kavanagh, a spokeswoman at Starwood, didn’t respond to
e-mails and telephone calls seeking comment on the company’s
finances.  The company’s shares have gained 13 percent this year,
trading at $54.20 at 2:41 pm in New York.  The company’s approach follows that of  competitors  such as
Marriott International Inc., which gets about 90 percent of its
earnings from fees, CreditSights’s Snow said.  Losing Steam  Starwood forecast earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization below analysts’  estimates  for the
last three months of this year as demand for rooms slows around
the world, van Paasschen said on the conference call. A recovery
in demand has “lost its steam,” he said.  The company was able to slash interest payments as
investment-grade yields hover near record lows with the  Federal
Reserve  anticipating it will hold short-term rates close to  zero 
percent through mid-2015.  “They are smart to strike now,” Smedes Rose, a New York-
based analyst at KBW Inc., said in a telephone interview.  The sale marked the first time Starwood accessed the
unsecured  debt  market since 2009 as management has focused on
cutting debt and lowering leverage, Snow wrote in a Dec. 5
report. Starwood’s debt fell from 5.7 times trailing 12-month
Ebitda in the third quarter of 2003 to 2.2 times in the third
quarter of 2007 before reversing during the economic crisis.  ‘Bad Times’  Starwood is shifting to a business model in which it
collects a percentage of revenue from hotels that it  operates 
while another entity owns the real estate. That reduces its
reliance on cash from individual hotels and cuts back on the
capital needed to maintain the properties.  “In bad times, it can turn around really quickly because
you still have to staff your hotels even if nobody’s there,”
KBW’s Rose said. “You’d rather be exposed to 3 to 5 percent of
hotel revenues but have lots of them.”  Starwood’s W chain began with one location in  Manhattan  in
1998 under then-chairman  Barry Sternlicht , who had built the
company with acquisitions that included the Westin and Sheraton
chains, according to business historian Hoover’s Inc.  Sternlicht, who left the company in 2005, is chief executive
officer of closely held investment firm Starwood Capital Group
LLC, which he founded in 1991.  In the third quarter, Starwood reported a 9.1 percent drop
in revenue per available room, an industry measure of occupancy
and rate, in  Europe  and only a “modest” 1.3 percent increase
worldwide, Nikhil Bhalla, a senior lodging analyst at FBR & Co.
in Arlington,  Virginia , said on the day of the earnings release.  Falling Revenue  Growth has slowed around the world, including in  China ,
where new hotels in metropolitan areas has added to competition,
van Paasschen said. Forecasting 2013 results is “quite
difficult” because it’s unclear whether the slowdown will be
temporary, he said.  Starwood’s revenue-per-available-room, an industry measure
of occupancy and rates, at hotels it owned worldwide declined
23.3 percent to $130.5 million in the third quarter of 2009
compared with similar period of 2008 as businesses and
households cut back on travel during the recession, an October
2009 regulatory filing shows. The measure climbed to $166.3
million on Sept. 30, according to an Oct. 30 regulatory filing.  Prices for the some of the best hotels in major cities have
met or exceeded the prior peak in 2008, aiding Starwood’s quest
to pare its assets, according to Real Capital Analytics.  Hotel Prices  Starwood sold Manhattan at Times Square, a 665-room hotel
in New York, for $275 million in October. The company sold its W
property in  Los Angeles ’ Westwood section to Pebblebrook Hotel
Trust for $125 million in August, about a week after completing
the sale of the 520-room W Chicago-Lakeshore to Chesapeake
Lodging Trust for $126 million.  The sales put Starwood in a better position with the rating
companies to weather a potential downturn amid slowing growth
globally and a potential U.S. recession as lawmakers wrangle
over  deficit reduction , said KBW’s Rose.  “They spent a lot of time on strengthening the balance
sheet,” he said. “They are now solidly investment-grade
territory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  