-- State Tax Revenue Rebounds as Post-Recession Spending Rises
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-12-14T14:37:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/state-tax-revenue-rebounds-as-post-recession-spending-increases.html
U.S. state governments are
recovering from the recession as tax collections increase,
allowing them to spend more on schools and transportation,
according to a report.  State revenue is projected to rise 3.9 percent during this
budget year over last to surpass the peak hit before the full
effects of the 18-month recession that began in December 2007,
according to the report, released today by the  National
Governors Association  and the  National Association of State
Budget Officers . Planned state government spending will climb
2.2 percent over last year, the Washington-based groups said.  “There are some positive developments and the trend line
is going in the right direction, but the challenges are still
significant for states,”  Scott Pattison , the executive director
of the state budget group, said in an interview. “There’s not
enough money going around, and we’re not going to see them
replace all the cuts they’ve made.”  State economies may suffer as a result of more than $600
billion in automatic spending cuts and tax increases scheduled
to start in January, according to the report. States might lose
money or be hurt by tax changes, such as curbs on the breaks
given to municipal-bond buyers or limits on the state and local
tax deduction, which could result from any agreement reached by
President  Barack Obama  and Congress to avert the cuts.  Spending Cuts  The financial improvement is lifting a restraint on the
economy that lingered after the recession and prompted states to
eliminate jobs, raise taxes and cut spending to close deficits.  State revenue is projected to increase this year to $692.8
billion, while planned spending will rise to $681 billion, in
the third-consecutive annual gain, according to the report.  Almost half of state budgets are smaller than four years
ago, an indication of how deep public spending was cut following
the longest economic downturn since the Great Depression.  With their budget outlook improving, state and local
governments exerted the smallest drag on economic growth in
three years in the three months through September, according to
Commerce Department data.  State payrolls  have grown this year.
And concern over government finances has diminished among
investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal  bond market , where the
securities have rallied amid speculation that their tax-
exemption will be more valuable should tax rates rise.  Medicaid Expenses  States are struggling with rising employee health-care
costs and with increasing expenses for Medicaid, the joint
federal-state health program for the poor, said Dan Crippen,
executive director of the National Governors Association.  “Whatever happens will inherently mean fewer resources
going to states from  Washington ,” Crippen said in an interview.  In states, the difference between their revenue and what
they have committed to spend has narrowed as tax collections
grow along with the economy.  Just eight states are forecasting deficits for the next
fiscal year, down from 33 in 2011, according to the report.
States are also adding to their reserve funds, an indicator of
fiscal health watched by bond-rating companies. States raised
the funds to about $61 billion this year, from $33 billion in
2010.  States aren’t benefiting evenly from the recovery. Twenty-
one still expect revenue to be lower this year than in 2008. In
eight states, including  Texas ,  Illinois , and  Alabama , spending
is set to drop this year.  Overall, officials increased funding for public schools by
$4.9 billion during the current budget year, led by California
and Florida, and more states increased aid to local governments,
according to the report. Colleges and universities continue to
face pressure as state funding dropped by $1 billion this year.
Spending on transportation projects rose by $254 million because
of increases in  New York ,  Oklahoma  and  Georgia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  