-- Sudan Rejects Imposed Solution on Abyei, Foreign Minister Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-12-14T17:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/sudan-rejects-imposed-solution-on-abyei-foreign-minister-says.html
Sudan  will not accept the
international community’s attempt to impose a settlement on the
disputed border region of Abyei, said Foreign Minister Ali Karti.  Sudan “will not at all accept any solution that will be
imposed by the African Union, or the United Nations  Security
Council ,” Karti said in an interview in Ethiopia’s capital,
 Addis Ababa , today. “Imposing solutions will not make them
lasting solutions.”  Sudan and South Sudan were given six weeks from Oct. 24 by
the African Union’s Peace and Security Council to consent to its
mediator’s proposal to reach a deal on Abyei. The deal was
accepted by South Sudan and rejected by Sudan.  The continental bloc said if its proposal was not agreed by
the two countries before the now-expired deadline it would
endorse it as “final and binding” and submit it to the  United
Nations Security Council .  Abyei is contested between the region’s Ngok Dinka people,
who are settled in the area and consider themselves southerners,
and Misseriya nomads who herd their cattle south in the dry
season and are supported by the government in Khartoum.  The  African Union  proposal said only people who reside in
the area would be eligible to vote in a referendum on which
country Abyei belongs to. In 2009, the Permanent Court of
Arbitration in The Hague set Abyei’s borders to the area around
Ngok Dinka settlements. That largely excluded the Misseriya, who
say that as seasonal inhabitants of the area, they should also
have the right to vote.  Karti said Sudan wants further mediation on the Misseriya
issue, “taking into consideration that there is a big community
living there with Dinka Ngok and they have to be considered.”  The African bloc’s security panel is meeting today in Addis
Ababa to discuss the situation between Sudan and  South Sudan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  