-- Sweden’s Banks Face Extra Fees to Cover Foreign Reserve Buffer
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-12-14T11:35:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/sweden-s-banks-face-extra-fees-to-cover-foreign-reserve-buffer.html
Sweden  may force its banks to cover
the cost of amassing currency reserves needed to guard against
risks caused by the financial industry’s reliance on foreign
borrowing, Finance Minister Anders Borg said.  Sweden “ought to make sure that the banks have to carry
part of the costs for this, since they have almost half of their
funding in foreign exchange,” Borg told reporters in Stockholm
today. “It’s therefore reasonable that we put conditions in
place for the Riksbank to deal with that situation.”  The central bank this week revealed it will build up its
reserves and add the equivalent of 100 billion kroner ($15
billion). The money is needed to provide banks with extra
liquidity should the crisis deepen, the central bank said. Borg,
who already requires Sweden’s biggest banks to hold more reserve
capital than their peers elsewhere, has argued more steps need
to be taken to protect taxpayers from risks posed by the
financial industry.  Though the central bank said Dec. 12 the increase in
reserves is a temporary measure, Borg said today Sweden should
consider having an extra buffer in the long term.  “We have such a big banking system and that banking system
has such big funding in foreign exchange that this constitutes a
stability risk,” Borg said. “There’s reason to increase
currency reserves in Sweden in the long term.”  The krona sank as much as 0.6 percent against the euro and
traded 0.4 percent lower at 8.7691 as of 12:31 p.m. in
Stockholm. Versus the dollar, it lost 0.3 percent to 6.6978.  Nordea, SEB  Policy makers including Governor Stefan Ingves, who is also
the chairman of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, have
urged Sweden’s banks to rely less on short-term foreign
borrowing after they needed emergency liquidity peaking at $30
billion in 2008 following the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  Sweden’s financial industry, which is dominated by  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA) ,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) , SEB AB and  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) ,
comprises assets that are more than four times the size of the
$500 billion economy.  Of the total securities issued by Swedish banks as of the
end of October, including certificates and bonds, 78 percent
were in foreign currencies, according to Statistics Sweden.  The biggest risk to Sweden’s financial stability now stems
from  Europe ’s debt crisis, Mattias Persson, the Riksbank’s head
of financial stability, said this week.  Jobless Outlook  The turmoil in the euro zone is also hurting Sweden’s macro
economy. Swedish  unemployment  hit a two-year high in November,
reaching a seasonally-adjusted 8.1 percent, Statistics Sweden
said yesterday. Unemployment will probably continue to rise,
Borg said today.  The Riksbank’s decision brings total foreign reserves to
310 billion kronor, including 45 billion kronor worth of gold,
based on figures from Aug. 31, according to the Riksbank’s
website. Of the total, 265 billion kronor are in bonds, of which
49 percent are in U.S. dollars and 36 percent in euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  