-- Switzerland Stocks Decline as U.S. Budget Talks Continue
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-12-14T16:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/swiss-stocks-fall-amid-u-s-budget-talks-actelion-drops.html
Swiss stocks  fell for a third day as
uncertainty over continued discussions on a new U.S. budget to
avoid the so-called fiscal cliff offset a report showing Chinese
manufacturing expanded at a faster-than-expected pace.  Actelion Ltd. posted the biggest decline on the benchmark
 Swiss Market Index (SMI) , falling 2.9 percent.  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  added
3.8 percent after Morgan Stanley upgraded its recommendation on
the shares.  The SMI retreated 0.3 percent to 6,902.51 at the close of
trading in Zurich, for a 0.3 weekly decline. The gauge has still
advanced 21 percent from this year’s low on June 4 as European
Central Bank policy makers agreed on an unlimited bond-buying
plan and the  Federal Reserve  announced a third round of
quantitative easing. The broader Swiss Performance Index fell
0.2 percent today.  “This morning’s HSBC PMI report on Chinese manufacturing
is very important news, but the market is only concentrating on
this fiscal cliff,” said John Plassard, vice president at
Mirabaud Securities LLP in Geneva. “Also, Morgan Stanley
upgraded Swatch, so that should be a trigger for the market to
go up because it was something really positive but the market is
holding its breath before a resolution to the fiscal cliff.”  In the U.S., President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner  met yesterday to discuss averting more than $600 billion
of spending cuts and tax increases before an end-of-year
deadline, with no public announcement of progress.  The president and congressional Democrats have said they
won’t discuss spending cuts unless Republicans agree to higher
tax rates for top earners. Republicans have insisted on
reductions to entitlement programs such as Medicare.  Chinese Output  In  China , a report showed manufacturing in the world’s
second-biggest economy may expand at a faster pace this month.
The December preliminary reading was 50.9 for a purchasing
managers’ index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics. That compares with the 50.8 median projection in a
Bloomberg News survey.  In the euro area, a preliminary report showed that a
measure of manufacturing climbed to 46.3 in December, up from
46.2 in the previous month. A composite index that also includes
services jumped to 47.3 this month, the highest since March,
from 46.5 in November. A reading below 50 means contraction.  Actelion (ATLN) , Switzerland’s largest biotechnology company, fell
for a fourth day, losing 2.9 percent to 44.99 Swiss francs. The
company said it expects the  Food and Drug Administration ’s
review of Macitentan, its treatment for pulmonary arterial
hypertension, to last 12 months.  Insurer Difficulty  Swiss Re AG (SREN) , the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, slid 1.3
percent to 65.35 francs, falling for a third day.  European insurers and pension funds could run into
difficulties because of low  interest rates  and fragile financial
markets, the industry’s top regulator said in a report today.  “Weak economic prospects, grown economic imbalances and
the likelihood of a prolonged low interest-rate environment
create a significantly negative medium term outlook for the
financial soundness of the European insurance and occupational
pensions sectors,” the Frankfurt-based European Insurance and
Occupational Pensions Authority said.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s second-largest bank,
dropped 1 percent to 22.65 francs.  Swatch, the world’s biggest watchmaker, advanced 3.8
percent to 464.8 francs, its highest price in more than 19
years. Morgan Stanley upgraded the stock to overweight, the
equivalent of buy, from underweight, citing potential gains from
an improvement in the Chinese luxury goods market.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , the second-largest luxury-
goods company, added 0.9 percent to 72.10 francs, rallying after
three days of losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  