-- U.K. Debt Downgrade Isn’t Forgone Conclusion, S&P’s Kraemer Says
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-12-14T12:48:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/u-k-debt-downgrade-isn-t-forgone-conclusion-s-p-s-kraemer-says.html
The U.K. may avoid a downgrade, even
as subdued growth prospects make it harder for Britain to
achieve its fiscal targets, according to  Standard & Poor’s .  The rating company’s decision to lower the outlook on U.K.
debt to negative from stable doesn’t mean there’s an immediate
threat to the country’s top AAA rating,  Moritz Kraemer , head of
sovereign ratings in  Frankfurt , said today in a Bloomberg
Television interview. S&P revised the outlook yesterday, citing
weak economic growth and a worsening debt profile. That means
there’s a one-in-three chance that S&P will cut the rating in
the next two years, Kraemer said.  “This is not a credit-watch situation where we have to act
quickly,” Kraemer said on “The Pulse” with  Guy Johnson . “If
we had an opinion that the downgrade is a foregone conclusion we
would have done it this week. But we just tried to signal that
risk is to the downside and there’s no immediate action to be
expected.”  The company forecast yesterday that Britain’s ratio of debt
to gross domestic product will keep rising in 2015 and peak that
year at 92 percent. There’s a risk it could approach 100 percent
if the economic recovery is weaker than currently projected, S&P
said.  Credit-rating cuts don’t always signal that bond prices
will fall. French 10-year yields have dropped more than 100
basis points, or 1 percentage point, this year despite the
country losing its top rating with S&P and Moody’s.  About half the time, government bond yields move in the
opposite direction suggested by new ratings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg in June on 314 upgrades, downgrades and
outlook changes going back to 1974.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  