-- U.K. Stocks Are Little Changed Amid U.S. Budget Talks
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-12-14T17:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/u-k-stocks-are-little-changed-amid-u-s-budget-talks.html
U.K. stocks  were little changed as
U.S. politicians discussed measures to prevent the so-called
fiscal cliff of automatic tax increases and spending cuts from
coming into effect next month.  Centamin Plc (CEY)  surged 25 percent after saying fuel supplies
to its Sukari gold mine in Egypt may resume.  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  rose 4.2 percent as U.K. regulators cleared
its purchase of a stake in LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd.  Volex Plc (VLX) 
plunged 37 percent after saying demand weakened across all its
businesses in the second half of the year.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  slipped 7.85 points, or 0.1 percent, to
5,921.76 at the close in London. The benchmark measure posted a
weekly advance of 0.1 percent for a fourth straight gain. It has
rallied 13 percent since a low on June 1 as the  European Central
Bank  announced an unlimited bond-buying plan and the  Federal
Reserve  began a third round of asset purchases in the U.S. The
broader FTSE All-Share Index and Ireland’s ISEQ Index were also
little changed today.  “The Christmas rally seems to have taken a brief pause,”
said  Angus Campbell , head of market analysis at Capital Spreads
in London. “Whilst many expect a resolution to the U.S. fiscal
cliff negotiations, some are coming to terms with the
possibility that we may indeed go over it. Hopes are slowly
being dashed and, yesterday, House of Representatives leader
 John Boehner  announced nothing new.”  U.S. Budget  President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker Boehner met
yesterday to discuss a new budget aimed at preventing more than
$600 billion of spending cuts and tax increases from coming into
effect at the beginning of next year.  Industrial production in the world’s largest economy rose
1.1 percent in November, after a revised 0.7 percent drop a
month earlier, the Fed said in a report. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.3 percent gain.  In China, the  preliminary reading  for a manufacturing index
based on a survey of  purchasing managers  was 50.9 for this
month, according to a release by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics. That compared with the median estimate of 50.8 by
economists in a Bloomberg survey and a final reading of 50.5 in
November. A level above 50 shows expansion.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered its outlook on Britain’s top
credit rating to negative, citing weak economic growth and a
worsening debt profile. The outlook on the AAA grade, revised
from stable, reflects “our view of a one-in-three chance that
we could lower the ratings in the next two years,” S&P said in
a statement late yesterday.  Centamin Rallies  Centamin jumped 25 percent to 34.64 pence, the biggest gain
since its 2001 initial share sale, after saying Egyptian General
Petroleum Corporation will resume diesel supplies to Chevron
Corp., which provides fuel for its Sukari gold mine.  The company plunged 47 percent yesterday after halting
production, saying it received an “illegal retrospective
claim” from EGPC for $65 million and wouldn’t get fuel until
the amount is paid.  LSE advanced 4.2 percent to 1,052 pence, the highest price
since Sept. 25, as the  Office of Fair Trading  cleared the
purchase of a majority holding in LCH.Clearnet. The operator of
Europe’s oldest independent stock exchange agreed to buy a stake
in the region’s biggest clearinghouse for 463 million euros
($610 million) in March.  Bunzl Plc (BNZL) , which provides supply services for grocery and
health-care companies, advanced 0.6 percent to 1,065 pence after
Citigroup Inc. raised its recommendation on the shares to buy
from neutral.  Volex Sinks  Volex slumped 37 percent to 89 pence, the most since at
least February 1991. The U.K. maker of power cords for devices
including Apple Inc.’s iPhone said it has seen delays in
production and a “general softening of demand” in sales in the
second half of the year, from an earlier forecast of growth.  Full-year revenue will be between $470 million and $485
million, the company said in a statement, compared with a Sept.
18 estimate for sales to be about 5 percent more than last
year’s $518 million.  Weir Group Plc (WEIR)  slid 1.6 percent to 1,807 pence after
Dahlman Rose & Co. said in a report that the company may see
slower growth in its mining business next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  