-- U.K. House Prices to Rise in ‘Modest’ 2013 Recovery, RICS Says
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-12-14T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/u-k-house-prices-to-rise-in-modest-2013-recovery-rics-says.html
U.K. house-price growth will
accelerate next year, helped by an improving mortgage market and
as homebuilding fails to keep up with demand, the  Royal
Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said.  Values will increase 2 percent after a 1 percent rise this
year, the London-based group said in a report today. Still, the
housing recovery will be “modest” because of the difficult
economic environment, it said. A separate report from
Acadametrics showed  home prices  rose 0.2 percent in November, a
second straight increase.  Lending will be helped by the Bank of England’s Funding for
Lending Scheme, designed to boost credit, and RICS said it has
seen evidence of a “slight thaw” in the mortgage market.
Growth in demand may be kept in check by a “hostile macro
picture” and banks’ demands for larger deposits from buyers.  “Tentative signs of recovery in the sales market should
not blind us to the very real problems that still exist,” said
RICS Chief Economist Simon Rubinsohn. “Many first-time buyers
will continue to find it difficult to secure a sufficiently
large loan to take an initial step on the housing market.”  RICS expects housing transactions to rise to about 960,000
next year from an estimated 930,000 this year. It forecast that
rents will rise about 4 percent in 2013 and it called on the
government to help ensure an increase in the housing stock.  The institution also said that it “would not be difficult
to project a more negative outcome given the risks to the
economy,” noting that  the backdrop  remains “challenging.”  ‘Limited Improvement’  In its report, Acadametrics said  house prices  rose 3.3
percent in November from a year earlier, while transactions were
up 5 percent. Out of the 10 regions tracked by Acadametrics and
LSL Property Services, six posted increases in the three months
through November from the same period a year earlier and four
fell, according to the report.  David Brown , commercial director of LSL, said there are
signs of “limited improvement” in lending levels.  “Lenders remain risk-averse and conscious of  capital
requirements ,” he said. “Those that have started to tap the
FLS have been directing additional funding towards buyers with
larger deposits and buy-to-let investors looking to capitalize
on attractive yields.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  