-- U.S. Must Rethink Housing Ambitions, BofA’s Moynihan Says
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-12-14T16:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/u-s-must-reset-housing-expectations-moynihan-says.html
Brian T. Moynihan ,  Bank of America 
Corp.’s chief executive officer, said the U.S. government,
lenders and borrowers need to reset their expectation that
everyone can own a home.  “We need to look hard at some of the old assumptions and
ask the question is homeownership the right solution for
everyone?” Moynihan said today during a speech at the  Brookings
Institution  in  Washington .  The reset should include a modified role for government in
housing, Moynihan said. He called for an “orderly transition”
in the role of  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac  and said the  Federal
Housing Administration  needs to return to its original focus on
helping low- and moderate-income borrowers.  “FHA has been instrumental in sustaining the market the
past few years, but they have come a long way from their
original mission,” he said.  The government mortgage insurer said last month it would
raise premiums and sell off delinquent loans after disclosing it
might need U.S. Treasury aid to balance its books for the first
time in its 78-year history.  “Clearly, this is one area where a reset is needed,”
Moynihan said.  Overhaul Plan  Lawmakers and regulators should take several years to
formulate a plan for overhauling the U.S. housing finance system
so that markets are not disrupted, Moynihan said.  “It’s a three- to four-year decision to get it right,” he
said. “You’re going to have to give lots of warning to America,
lots of warning to the markets. You don’t want confidence to go
back.”  Banks also need more clarity from the government on pending
regulations to assign liability for risky mortgages and require
them to hold capital against such loans before they and other
private entities will play a larger role in housing credit,
Moynihan said.  “We don’t want to end up with any unintended consequences
that prevent private capital from returning or further restrict
sound lending and ultimately go counter to the reset we’re
trying to achieve,” he said.  ‘Sustained Recovery’  The housing market is in the midst of a “real, sustained
recovery,” Moynihan said. At the same time, he said,
unemployment is limiting the reach of mortgage modification
programs and other aid that lenders and the government are
providing for troubled borrowers.  Bank of America has provided such aid to about 1.5 million
borrowers and has about 50,000 of its 270,000 employees
dedicated to working on about 900,000 delinquent loans, down
from a peak of 1.6 million delinquent loans at the height of the
crisis, he said.  The bank modifies between 30,000 and 40,000 loans and
approves about 20,000 short sales every quarter, he said. Bank
of America has finished reducing principal on  mortgage loans  as
required in a legal settlement with federal and state
authorities over improper foreclosure practices, he said.  Lenders need to carefully underwrite loans and ensure that
borrowers have an incentive to maintain their payments. Still,
he said, “I don’t think there is anything magic about a 20
percent down payment; 10 percent seems reasonable.”  Lenders need to consider “how do we strike the right
balance between prudent underwriting, responsible down payments
and access to homeownership?,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  