-- U.S. Upgrades Probe of Ford Floor Mats Jamming Gas Pedals
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-12-14T21:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/u-s-upgrades-probe-of-ford-floor-mats-jamming-gas-pedals.html
An investigation into complaints
that loose floor mats in some  Ford Motor Co. (F)  Fusion, Lincoln MKZ
and Mercury Milan cars may jam accelerator pedals was upgraded
by U.S. regulators.  The  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration , which
regulates auto safety, today said it intensified a probe opened
in May 2010 to an engineering analysis after receiving 52
complaints.  The investigation covers about 480,000 cars from model
years 2008 to 2010, NHTSA said today on its website. Accelerator
pedals may be stuck down by “unsecured or double stacked floor
mats,” NHTSA said. No crashes or injuries have been reported,
though some drivers said they had to shift into neutral or turn
off the engine to slow down, according to the agency.  “We were disappointed by NHTSA’s upgrade of this
investigation, particularly since the condition under
investigation relates to improperly installed, unsecured or
double stacked floor mats, but we will continue to cooperate
fully with the agency through this process,” Susan Krusel, a
Ford spokeswoman, said.  NHTSA’s Ford investigation shows the regulator is
continuing to learn about instances of unintended acceleration,
similar to reports that plagued  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  in 2009 and
2010.  Asia ’s largest automaker recalled more than 10 million
cars and trucks worldwide after complaints that resulted in
congressional hearings.  “It’s certainly a red flag,” Philip Reed, senior consumer
advice editor for auto researcher Edmunds.com, said in an
interview. “NHTSA takes it very, very seriously.”  Toyota Fines  Toyota paid record fines to NHTSA of $48.8 million in 2010
for failing to recall models affected by the flaws in a timely
manner. It still faces customer lawsuits related to the defects.  Toyota blamed floor mats that could jam pedals and
accelerators that could stick in the down position, and NHTSA
agreed. Some auto-safety advocates have said they suspect
electronics faults in the Toyota incidents and the  National
Academy of Sciences , which reviewed NHTSA’s investigation, has
said it couldn’t rule that out.  Follow-up actions continue. Toyota recalled 154,000 2010
Lexus RX SUVs on June 29 to fix and replace mats that can slip
out of position and interfere with accelerator pedals.  Consumers need to take responsibility, especially during
winter months, to not stack floor mats that could jam
accelerators, particularly those pedals that hinge at the bottom
instead of the top, Reed said.  “The manufacturers are very sensitive to this,” he said.
“There’s only so much they can do. They have to provide an
accelerator pedal, obviously. They’re not fully in control of
how people modify the vehicle.”  Ford fell 1.5 percent to $11.10 at 4:01 p.m.  New York  time.
The company, based in Dearborn,  Michigan , also said today it’s
talking with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency about how
it tests fuel-economy performance of new vehicles, following a
 Consumer Reports  finding that its hybrids fall short of mileage
promises.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  