-- UBS Libor Pact Said to Include $1.6 Billion, Charges
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-12-16T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/ubs-libor-pact-said-to-include-charges-against-bankers.html
U.S. prosecutors are planning to
file charges this week against multiple bankers associated with
 UBS AG (UBSN) ’s rigging of Tokyo interbank lending rates, according to
a person with knowledge of the case.  The charges would be the first brought by the  U.S.
Department of Justice  against individuals alleged to have
manipulated the  London  interbank offered rate, or Libor, and
comparable lending rates in Europe and Japan.  The prosecution is slated to begin in tandem with an
announcement that UBS Securities Japan Ltd., the Japanese unit
of the Zurich-based bank, would plead guilty to manipulating
Japanese  interest rates  starting in 2007, said the person, who
asked not to be named because the matter is private.  UBS is set to pay as much as $1.6 billion to settle charges
of interest rate manipulation with the  Justice Department , the
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the U.K. Financial
Services Authority and the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory
Authority, said another person familiar with the probes. The
announcement could come as early as Dec. 18, said the person,
who asked not to be identified because they aren’t authorized to
speak publicly about the matter.  That $1.6 billion figure would be more than three times the
290 million pounds ($469 million) that  Barclays Plc (BARC)  agreed to
pay last June to settle allegations that its employees conspired
to manipulate Libor, a rate used in bank borrowing.  No Comment  Christoph Meier, a Zurich-based spokesman for UBS, Liam Parker, a spokesman for the FSA, and Tobias Lux, a spokesman for
the Swiss financial markets regulator, declined to comment on
the settlement amount.  Karina Byrne , a spokeswoman for UBS, said last week in an
e-mail: “We continue to work closely with various regulatory
authorities to resolve issues relating to the setting of certain
global benchmark interest rates. As we are in active discussions
with these authorities, we cannot comment further.”  Unlike the pending settlement with UBS, the Justice
Department didn’t require Barclays to enter a guilty plea to a
specific charge. In deciding against a charge last June,
prosecutors praised Barclays’ “timely, voluntary and complete
disclosure of facts.”  UBS has been “granted conditional leniency or conditional
immunity” by the Justice Department’s antitrust division, in
connection with potential antitrust violations related to
submissions for interbank lending rates in  Tokyo , according to
the Swiss bank’s most recent annual report.  U.S. Guidelines  According to Justice Department guidelines, a corporation
can secure favorable treatment from prosecutors if it’s the
first to pledge full cooperation in an antitrust investigation.
In order to win that leniency, however, the corporation has to
include an admission that it was part of an antitrust conspiracy,
and help identify other participants in the scheme.  One year ago, Japanese regulators sanctioned UBS’s Japanese
operations, curtailing the bank’s ability to participate in the
Tokyo interbank derivative market for a week, and ordering the
bank to improve its regime of compliance and internal controls.  Last week, a former Citigroup Inc. trader was among three
people detained in the first U.K. arrests as part of the global
Libor probes, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Thomas Hayes, a former trader at UBS and Citigroup, was
arrested by the  Serious Fraud Office  and  City of London  Police,
said the people, who asked not to be identified citing the
continuing investigation.  The other two men arrested worked at brokerage firm RP
Martin Holdings Ltd., according to one of the people and a third
person familiar with the investigation, who also requested
anonymity. The employees are Terry Farr and Jim Gilmour, people
with knowledge of the investigation said. They were later
released on bail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Farrell  in  New York  at   gregfarrell@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at   lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  