-- Lundbeck’s Anti-Alcoholism Pill Wins EU Regulatory Nod
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-12-14T13:11:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/lundbeck-s-anti-alcoholism-pill-wins-eu-regulatory-nod.html
H. Lundbeck A/S’s (LUN)  Selincro, the
first treatment to help people cut back on drinking without
abstaining, won the backing of the European Union’s drug
regulator.  Selincro is recommended for men who drink more than 60
grams of alcohol a day and for women who consume more than 40
grams daily, the European Medicines Agency said in a  statement 
today. Sixty grams would be equal to the alcohol content of
about one and a half bottles of wine, Lundbeck said.  The drug works to reduce the urge to continue drinking by
blocking brain signals that make drinking feel good. Selincro is
designed to help alcohol-dependent people cut back, an approach
that divides treatment experts because many advocate abstinence.
It should be prescribed in conjunction with “continuous
psychosocial support that focuses on treatment adherence and
reducing alcohol consumption,” the agency said.  Lundbeck rose 0.6 percent to 99.50 kroner as of 2:08 p.m.
in Copenhagen, where the company is based. Turku, Finland-based
 Biotie Therapies Oyj (BTH1V) , which licensed the drug to Lundbeck, rose
4.7 percent to 45 cents in Helsinki.  In  studies , patients were instructed to take one tablet one
or two hours before the anticipated time of drinking. In one
late-stage trial, monthly total alcohol consumption fell from 75
grams per day on average to 16 grams per day after one year of
treatment, Lundbeck said. Mild side effects, such as insomnia
and nausea, decreased over the course of treatment, it said.  Targeting Europe  Lundbeck is targeting the European market, where annual per
capita alcohol consumption, at 12.18 liters (3.2 gallons), is
double the global average and 40 percent higher than in the
Americas, according to the  World Health Organization . It hasn’t
yet sought approval in the U.S., where it would be protected
from generic competition for only five years, compared with 10
years in  Europe , according to the company.  A harmful level of drinking is associated with premature
death and is a major risk factor for psychiatric disorders,
 heart disease , cirrhosis of the liver and cancer, the EMA said.  The agency’s recommendations are the final stage before the
European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, approves or rejects
a drug for sale to patients in the 27-nation region. The
commission usually follows the EMA’s recommendation.  Gaining Experience  Once the drug has been introduced in Europe and doctors and
patients gain experience using it, Lundbeck may open up
discussions with regulators in other countries such as the U.S.,
 Japan ,  South Korea , and  China , Chief Executive Officer Ulf Wiinberg said in an interview on Dec. 5.  As a conservative estimate, peak sales of Selincro could
reach $55 million, assuming 10 percent penetration of diagnosed
patients in the European Union, with a potential $300 million in
“a realistic upside scenario,” according to Peter Welford, an
analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. in  London .  Lundbeck plans to submit Selincro to Russian regulators in
the first half of 2013, said Andreas Eggert, who oversees
commercializing the drug. Biotie may receive as much as 84
million euros ($110 million) in payments from Lundbeck in
addition to royalties on sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  