-- Muni Yields Rise Most This Year as Post-Election Demand Dwindles
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-12-14T16:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/muni-yields-rise-most-this-year-as-post-election-demand-dwindles.html
U.S. municipal-bond yields climbed
this week by the most in more than a year as a wave of state and
local sales overwhelmed the least demand since October.  The interest rate on 20-year general-obligation bonds rose
0.17 percentage point to 3.44 percent in the week through Dec.
13, according to a Bond Buyer  index . That’s the biggest increase
since the period ended Oct. 6, 2011. The previous mark of 3.27
percent was the lowest since 1965.  Municipal-bond mutual funds added about $311 million in the
week through Dec. 12, Lipper US Fund Flows data show, the least
in six weeks. Tax-free state and local debt led a fixed-income
rally following the re-election of President  Barack Obama , who
seeks to increase the top federal income tax rate to 39.6
percent from 35 percent.  “It’s tough to say there was a lot of value, at least
historically, in recent rates,” said David Manges, muni trading
manager at BNY Mellon Capital Markets LLC in Pittsburgh. “The
results of the election have washed through the market, and
we’re moving onto the next story.”  As muni yields have increased from  47-year lows , the return
on state and local debt in 2012 has shrunk. In December, tax-
exempts have lost 0.7 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data. That would be the worst month for municipals
since January 2011, after  Meredith Whitney ’s failed prediction
the previous month of “hundreds of billions of dollars” of
local defaults in the following year.  Finding Balance  The $3.7 trillion muni market has still earned about 8.2
percent this year, compared with the 2.2 percent return on U.S.
Treasuries, Bank of America data show.  States and localities issued about $20 billion of long-term
debt in the past two weeks, making it the  busiest  stretch since
June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Supply is poised to decline to $2.8 billion next week,
which would be the smallest since August, the data show.  “Given the lack of supply that’s likely to be with us over
the next two to six weeks, munis will find some balance” at
current yield levels, Manges said.  State and local  interest rates  are rising faster than their
federal counterparts, pushing 10-year muni yields to about 93
percent of those on Treasuries, the highest since Nov. 19,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  ratio , a gauge of relative value between the two asset
classes, fell to 85 percent this week, the lowest since June
2011, signaling that local debt is relatively more expensive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  