-- United Technologies Growth Below Estimates After Goodrich
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-12-14T22:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/united-technologies-growth-below-estimates-after-goodrich.html
     Dec. 14 (Bloomberg) --  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  forecast
lower profit and sales next year than analysts projected even as
the purchase of Goodrich Corp., the largest acquisition in
aerospace, bolsters growth.  Earnings per share will climb as much as 16 percent to
$5.85 to $6.15, the company said yesterday at a meeting in New
York. The $6 midpoint of that  prediction  fell short of the $6.13
average of analysts’ estimates. United Technologies said revenue
will climb 12 percent to $64 billion to $65 billion. Analysts
had projected $66.2 billion.  Chief Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert ’s move to add
Goodrich, the biggest maker of aircraft landing gear, to brands
including  Pratt & Whitney jet engines  and Hamilton Sundstrand
flight systems will add 70 cents a share to 2013 profit, he
said. Higher pension costs, losses on Sikorsky helicopters being
manufactured for the Canadian government and a sluggish global
economy will temper those gains, the company said.  “Goodrich is doing everything I thought it would do when I
announced the deal and more,”Chenevert said in a meeting with
investors in New York. “There are still some challenges in the
economy, but in the sectors in which we participate, we feel
very comfortable.”  The lower end of United Technologies’ guidance will hold
even if U.S. President  Barack Obama  and his opponents in
Congress fail to reach an agreement to avert automatic budget
cuts scheduled to take effect in January, Chenevert said. United
Technologies’ defense sales will fall by a “mid-single-digit”
percentage next year, the company forecast.  European Revenue  Sikorsky will reduce earnings by 21 cents a share next
year, while low pension discount rates will lower profit by 25
cents a share, according to the presentation.  European revenue will be little changed next year, with the
euro expected to trade around $1.28, according to the
presentation. The currency has risen about 1 percent this year
to $1.31.  United Technologies’ acquisition of a controlling stake in
International Aero Engines, a joint venture with MTU Aero
Engines AG and Japanese Aero Engines Corp. will add 5 cents a
share to 2013 profit, the company said. That purchase along with
Goodrich is helping drive aerospace sales to more than half of
total revenue.  The company said 2012 earnings per share will be about
$5.32 on revenue of $58 billion, matching analysts’
expectations.  United Technologies  dropped  0.5 percent to $79.98 at the
close in New York. The shares have gained 9.4 percent this year,
 compared  with a 12 percent advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500
index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  