-- Hutchison’s Fok ‘Feels Positive’ After Austrian Orange Meeting
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-12-14T16:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/hutchison-s-fok-feels-positive-after-austrian-orange-meeting.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  Managing
Director Canning Fok said he held “constructive talks” today
about his planned purchase of mobile operator Orange Austria
with Austrian competition watchdog BWB.  Fok spent more than an hour talking with the BWB, or
Bundeswettbewerbsbehoerde, the only regulator whose approval is
missing for the Orange purchase, he told journalists in Vienna.
He discussed consumer benefits with officials there and “feels
positive” about the talks, Fok said.  “I must say that although I cannot report what is the
decision -- nothing is decided -- the meeting was very
constructive and I feel very positive about it,” Fok said.
“Obviously the decision has to come from the competition
authorities, so we have to wait.”  Hutchison, controlled by Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing ,
won European Union approval for its 1.3 billion-euro ($1.7
billion) purchase of Orange after it agreed to divest radio
spectrum and offer network access to new rivals. The deal agreed
in February would create the Alpine country’s third-biggest
mobile operator. Orange is currently owned jointly by  France
Telecom SA (FTE)  and Mid Europa Partners.  In a related deal that is an “integral” part of the
transaction,  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) , the nation’s biggest phone
company, agreed to buy Orange’s prepaid operator Yesss! for 390
million euros. While the BWB objected to that purchase, the
Austrian cartel court approved it last month. BWB said it will
decide whether to appeal the court’s decision next week.  Fok declined to comment on whether Hutchison had offered
the regulator new concessions, saying only that “it has been a
solid discussion” and that he had to now await the ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  