-- Vattenfall Cash Piles to Buoy Bond Holders: Nordic Credit
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-12-14T12:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/vattenfall-cash-piles-to-buoy-bond-holders-nordic-credit.html
Investors holding Vattenfall AB’s
bonds are set to benefit from a drop in supply as the Nordic
region’s biggest utility redeems existing debt and refrains from
selling more in an effort to burn through its surplus cash.  “We don’t consider issuing new bonds today, even if
today’s levels are attractive and cheap,” Johan Gyllenhoff,
head of treasury at the utility, said by phone. “We have
surplus liquidity thanks to the asset sales in 2011, which gave
us so much money that we can use it to repay our loans. In late
2013 we’ll reconsider our options regarding refinancing.”  Vattenfall, which is owned by the AAA rated Swedish state,
has emerged as a favorite among investors fleeing assets tainted
by  Europe ’s debt crisis. Cost cuts delivered ahead of schedule
and increasing cash from divestments have allowed the company to
avoid debt sales for a year.  “The market is pricing Vattenfall’s bonds fairly, although
they have become expensive,” Mikael Anttila, who helps manage
about $7.8 billion in fixed-income investments at SEB AB in
 Stockholm , including Vattenfall’s debt. “If returns from credit
markets worsen, Vattenfall’s bond spreads would likely widen
less than Italian and Spanish utilities.”  Cash Piles  The company, based in Solna near the Swedish capital
Stockholm, faces  $2.9 billion  in bond redemptions next year.
Even so, a 50 percent annual increase in cash and short-term
investments to 47 billion kronor ($7.1 billion) at the end of
the third quarter mean the utility is under no pressure to issue
new debt. Vattenfall amassed the funds after selling its Finnish
electricity distribution network and heat business, as well as
its Polish heat generation unit in the first quarter.  “They’ve no real need to reissue bonds,” Andrew Moulder,
senior utilities analyst at CreditSights Inc. said by phone from
 London  on Dec. 10. The company might consider a debt sale “if
they look at it opportunistically, and want to get their name
back in the market.”  Vattenfall is  rated A-  at Standard & Poor’s, four levels
above junk, and its outlook is stable. Its A2 rating at Moody’s
Investors Service is five levels above non-investment grade,
with a negative outlook since Feb. 21.  Sweden’s challenging economic conditions and “strong hydro
reservoir levels could result in sustained downward pressure on
both demand and electricity price levels,” potentially reducing
revenue, Moody’s said then.  ‘Safe Category’  Vattenfall’s German rival EON SE and Finnish competitor
 Fortum Oyj (FUM1V)  are also rated A- at S&P, while Norwegian utility
Statnett SF’s credit grade is two levels higher at A+.  “In today’s market and flight to safety, our financing
costs have dropped,” Gyllenhoff said. “We’re considered part
of the safe category for investors.”  The utility, which generates power using hydro and nuclear
assets and is expanding in wind farms, last raised money on the
bond markets in November 2011, when it sold 2 billion kronor in
floating-rate notes. Its latest euro-denominated bond dates from
May 2009, sold at a spread of 165 basis points over the mid-swap
rate. Vattenfall has 1.35 billion euros ($1.77 billion) of the
securities outstanding.  “The market perceives no risk in countries where
Vattenfall operates, such as Sweden, Finland and  Denmark ,”
Anttila said. “Vattenfall’s bonds are safe, stable, and
predictable, and don’t offer yield pickup. Many want to buy
Vattenfall’s bonds no matter what the price is, as a core
holding.”  No Returns  Vattenfall is getting rid of  cash  that isn’t generating
returns as interest rates hover close to record lows. Still, the
company isn’t interested in investing in high-yielding
securities, Gyllenhoff said.  “The primary objective is to see to it that the liquidity
is invested safely and that we don’t risk losing what we’ve
earned from our core activity,” he said. It’s “not to maximize
returns on our liquidity. We’re cautious when it comes to taking
on debt, since we get lower returns than ever when investing the
liquidity.”  Some of the cash will be spent to redeem debt maturing next
year, including a floating-rate 1 billion-krona bond due on
April 22 and 2 billion kronor of May 22 securities with a
variable rate. Vattenfall will also make a payment to Nuon NV’s
shareholders for an acquisition completed in 2009. Spending the
cash to repay bond holders will be “positive” for the company,
Anttila said.  Perpetual Bond  The utility sold 1 billion euros of 5.25 percent perpetual
bonds in June 2005, with a call date of June 29, 2015. It plans
to buy back the securities then, Gyllenhoff said. The market has
priced in the call, according to Moulder.  The perpetual bond “offers better returns” than the
utility’s other bonds, Anttila at SEB said. “It still is
attractive, though it was even more tempting earlier this
year.”  Vattenfall had 161 billion kronor in gross debt on Sept.
30, according to its website. Net debt fell to 114 billion
kronor from 141 billion kronor at the end of last year. It also
has 31.6 billion kronor of unused credit facilities.  The company is keeping its options open on selling a bond
or raising hybrid capital in late 2013, according to Gyllenhoff.
Such a bond would probably be “well received” by the market,
Moulder said.  “It’s almost a bit frustrating, seeing very good
opportunities and attractive interest rate levels available in
the market, for long maturities and at very low coupon rates,”
Gyllenhoff said. “We almost look forward to bonds maturing next
year, so that we can reduce our liquidity. It costs money to
have a big cash register -- we get no return on it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  