-- Virgin Atlantic, Cathay Cleared in U.K. Price-Fix Probe
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-12-14T21:41:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/virgin-atlantic-cleared-with-cathay-in-u-k-price-fix-probe-1-.html
U.K. antitrust regulators closed an
investigation into whether  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  and
Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. illegally coordinated pricing on
flights between  Hong Kong  and London.  The probe, involving the exchange of sensitive fare data
from 2002 to 2006, was closed because there were “no grounds
for action,” the  Office of Fair Trading  said yesterday in a
statement. Cathay Pacific would have been immune from fines in
the two-year-old case because it was a whistle-blower.  “During this investigation the OFT gathered and conducted
a thorough review of a significant body of evidence,” the
regulator said. “In light of the parties’ representations,
which included additional evidence, and having carried out a
number of further investigative steps, the OFT has concluded
that there are no longer grounds for action.”  Virgin Atlantic said in a statement it was pleased the OFT
concluded its investigations and that the case is now closed.
The airline said it had maintained throughout that there had
been no infringement of competition laws.  Virgin Atlantic received immunity in a separate antitrust
case after admitting it collaborated with British Airways Plc to
fix fuel surcharges on trans-Atlantic flights from 2004 until
2006. British Airways paid $628 million to cover related fines
and class-action settlements.  Cathay Pacific has a long-standing policy of compliance
with all applicable laws and cooperated with the OFT, the
airline said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  