-- What Holiday? Fiscal Talks a Grinch From K Street to Wall Street
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-12-14T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/what-holiday-fiscal-talks-a-grinch-from-k-street-to-wall-street.html
Tim Delaney had hoped to see family
in Texas and  Arizona  for the holidays. Now, the chief executive
officer of the National Council of Nonprofits is stuck in
Washington because of a deadlock in U.S. budget negotiations.  “Holiday? Really?” said Delaney, who needs to keep his
members informed as Congress and the White House approach a Dec.
31 deadline to avoid a combination of expiring Bush-era tax
breaks and automatic spending cuts.  The stalemate has disrupted the holidays for industry
representatives, attorneys, financial analysts, lobbyists and
others who must keep tabs on the talks. They are holding back on
vacations, working through them or being put on call.  “Nobody knows what Congress will or will not be doing,”
Delaney said in a telephone interview. “Historically, they’ve
not met on Christmas Eve. But if they do, I will be here. If
they don’t, I will still be here, monitoring what’s going on.”  Richard Whittington, an analyst at Drexel Hamilton LLC in
New York, said he still plans to take a holiday ski trip to
 Colorado . The budget impasse may limit his time on the slopes.  “We’ve got a  federal budget  showdown that’s very high-
stakes poker,” Whittington said in a telephone interview. “The
outcome is going to have a material bearing on defense stocks
come January, one way or the other.”  Watching C-SPAN  Brian Ruttenbur, an analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC, said
he plans to spend a good portion of the holidays in his home
office, watching C-SPAN to keep an eye on the budget debate. He
lives with his wife and their eight children in Nashville,
 Tennessee .  An associate who normally takes time off around the
holidays will be working instead at the company’s headquarters
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , so they’re ready when trading resumes
on Jan. 2, Ruttenbur said.  “I have to prepare for the first day of markets to write a
note saying either we’ve gone over the cliff or we haven’t,” he
said, referring to what has become known as the fiscal cliff.
“That’s why I’m watching.”  Washington’s lobbying shops, known collectively as K
Street, where many of them were once located, also are watching.
Dan Tate, a lobbyist at Forbes-Tate LLC, said his office would
normally be shut for the week between Christmas and New Year’s.
With the negotiations continuing, the firm’s lobbyists may have
to work, he said.  “This time, we have to assess where everybody is to make
sure we have enough people to cover in case anything happens,”
Tate said.  Online Shopping  Forbes-Tate represents  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ,  Honda Motor Co. (HMC) ’s
U.S. unit, and a utility group that includes  American Electric
Power Co. (AEP)  and  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  Tate said he “can’t think of a
single client that doesn’t care” about the outcome of the
budget talks.  Trust and estate lawyers have been especially busy as their
clients prepare for current exemptions on gifts and estates to
expire at the year’s end.  People who were waiting to see if lawmakers would extend
current levels are now deciding to act, said Bobbi Bierhals, a
partner and estate planning attorney at McDermott Will & Emery
LLP in  Chicago .  For Bierhals, the last-minute rush means that holiday
planning has taken a back seat. So far, the only shopping she’s
been able to do has been online.  “I don’t recall the last time I left the office before 9
p.m.,” she said. “I’m just appreciative of my husband who has
managed all of our holiday obligations thus far.”  Ladies Bathroom  Bierhals said she’s seen little of her children, ages 1 and
3. On Dec. 11, she didn’t see them in the morning or the
evening. “I didn’t see them at all,” she said.  The combination of more than $600 billion in tax increases
and automatic spending cuts is scheduled to take effect in
January unless President  Barack Obama  and Congress delay them or
reach an alternate agreement. The tax increases include the
expiring income-tax breaks along with new taxes from the 2010
health care law.  The White House and lawmakers have warned their staffs that
they might be spending the holidays in Washington, as both sides
publicly refused to budge from their positions on taxes and
spending.  The standoff was spoofed over the weekend by NBC’s
“Saturday Night Live.” House Speaker John Boehner, portrayed
by SNL’s Bill Hader, was in tears after being bullied by
Republican lawmakers who pelted him with rotten eggs and pushed
him into the congressional ladies bathroom.  Refundable Tickets  In reality, Boehner told Republican lawmakers in a closed-
door meeting Dec. 12 that votes may come in the final days of
December, warning them not to leave  Washington  for an extended
period.  “I just told my family that we needed to prepare that
there’s a small chance that I’ll be here for Christmas,” said
Idaho Republican Raul Labrador, who flies between Washington and
Boise.  White House officials urged staff to buy refundable tickets
home. Walking across Pennsylvania Avenue to Blair House for a
National Security Council holiday party yesterday, Obama waved,
smiled and largely ignored shouted questions from reporters
about whether he’d have a new offer or if he thought there would
be a deal by Christmas.  The negotiations were “still a work in progress,” Obama
told the journalists, who are seeing their holiday plans
threatened as well.  Some have vented their frustrations in haiku, using a
Twitter hashtag called #fiscalcliffhaikus.  Herb Jackson, Washington correspondent for Bergen County,
New Jersey’s The Record,  wrote :  “Vacation unused / Not able to
schedule / G’damn fiscal cliff.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  