-- Wheat Bulls Retreat as U.S. Estimates Roil Markets: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-12-14T05:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/wheat-bulls-retreat-as-u-s-estimates-roil-markets-commodities.html
Wheat traders are the least bullish
in four weeks after the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  raised
its world stockpile forecast for a second month, easing concern
that droughts and heat waves will lead to shortages.  Thirteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg said they expect
prices to gain next week, 10 were bearish and one was neutral.
That’s the lowest proportion of bulls since Nov. 16.  Hedge funds 
cut their bets on higher prices by 57 percent since Aug. 7, two
weeks after futures rallied to an almost four-year high after
the worst U.S. drought in a half century, government data show.  The department on Dec. 11 raised its estimate for world
inventories for May 31 by 1.6 percent, while analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg anticipated a decline. Futures fell the most in two
months. Wheat is leading gains in commodities this year after
drought from  Australia  to  Europe  to the U.S. parched crops, at a
time of near-record demand.  “The USDA surprised a few analysts,” said Kieran Walsh, a
broker of agricultural derivatives at Aurel BGC in Paris. “From
a fundamentals perspective the situation is still fairly bleak.
The market is quite vulnerable to shocks given stockpile levels,
and the USDA estimates have not changed that picture.”  Wheat advanced 24 percent to $8.075 a bushel on the  Chicago 
Board of Trade this year and has averaged $7.56, the highest
level since 2008, when food riots erupted worldwide. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities fell 1.8 percent
since the start of January and the MSCI All-Country World  Index (MXWD) 
of equities rose 12 percent. Treasuries returned 2.2 percent, a
Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Largest Exporter  Global stockpiles will be 176.95 million metric tons before
the Northern Hemisphere’s next harvest, still 9.6 percent lower
than a year earlier, the USDA said. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg had expected a cut to 173.61 million tons.  Australia, last season’s second-largest exporter, may
harvest 22 million tons, more than the previous estimate of 21
million tons, the USDA said. That brought its projection in line
with the most recent Australian government forecast. The USDA
also raised its outlook for  Canada , expected to be the second-
largest shipper this year, by 1.9 percent to 27.2 million tons.  Hedge funds  and other speculators held a net-long position
of 34,429 futures and options in the week ended Dec. 4, down
from 80,827 in August, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data show. The most widely held option gives owners the right to
sell grain at $8 by February, CBOT data show.  Supply Risks  Weather is still posing a risk, with  Russia , last year’s
third-biggest exporter, bracing for its coldest winter in 20
years. Record heat in southern areas means some crops have yet
to enter dormancy and don’t have protective snow covering.
Officials from cereals exchanges in  Argentina ,  South America ’s
largest shipper, said they’re cutting output forecasts there.  Nearly all the U.S. Great Plains, the country’s largest
growing region, had drought conditions on Dec. 4, according to
the U.S. Drought Monitor. Areas of Kansas and  Oklahoma , the
biggest producing states, had less than 10 percent of the normal
amount of rain in the past 60 days, according to the  National
Weather Service .  There are also signs of strengthening demand.  Egypt , the
biggest wheat importer, agreed to buy 280,000 tons from the U.S.
on Dec. 1. That was the first time since April that U.S. wheat
won an Egyptian tender, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Global
wheat consumption may total 680.3 million tons in the 2012-13
season, second only to last year’s record demand at 689.3
million tons, USDA data show.  Food Costs  An  index  of the cost of 55 food items tracked by the  United
Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization slipped for a second
month in November, falling 1.5 percent as prices for oilseeds,
cooking oils and sugar retreated. The global food-import bill
will drop 9.7 percent to $1.14 trillion this year, the Rome-
based FAO forecast last month.  In other commodities, 16 of 27 people surveyed anticipate
higher corn prices next week and eight said the grain will drop,
while 16 of 28 said soybeans will gain and eight expect a
decline. Corn rose 11 percent to $7.195 a bushel this year as
soybeans rallied 23 percent to $14.7975 a bushel in Chicago.
Both commodities set records since August.  Four of eight people surveyed expect raw sugar to fall next
week and two predicted a gain. The commodity slid 20 percent to
18.54 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  this year.  Copper Survey  Eleven people surveyed said copper will rise next week, 10
predicted a drop and two were neutral. The metal for delivery in
three months, the  London  Metal Exchange’s benchmark contract,
rose 6.4 percent to $8,088 a ton this year.  Sixteen of 28 traders and analysts surveyed said gold would
advance next week and nine were bearish. Bullion rose 8.5
percent to $1,696.75 an ounce in London this year. Holdings in
gold-backed exchange-traded products reached a record 2,629.968
tons on Dec. 13, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Gold is poised for a 12th consecutive annual gain as
central banks from Europe to China pledge more steps to boost
growth. The  Federal Reserve  said Dec. 12 it will expand stimulus
by buying $45 billion a month of  Treasury securities  from
January. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the latest measures won’t
offset the effects of the so-called fiscal cliff of spending
cuts and tax increases scheduled to start in January.  The S&P GSCI gauge of raw materials dropped 9.4 percent
since reaching a five-month high on Sept. 14, and is heading for
its worst performance since 2008. The Washington-based
 International Monetary Fund  cut its 2013 growth forecast twice
since July, to 3.6 percent.  “The more quantitative easing you have, the more it makes
sense to have something like gold providing some form of
currency alternative,” said Carole Ferguson, an analyst at SP
Angel Corporate Finance LLP, a broker and adviser in London.
“For industrial commodities I don’t think it’s as clear cut. It
depends on whether the QE stimulates growth and the jury is
still slightly out on that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  