-- Women at Law Firms, Fried Frank, Latham: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-12-14T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/women-at-law-firms-fried-frank-latham-business-of-law.html
The percentage of female associates
at law firms fell for the third straight year, even as women
made gains in becoming partners, according to a survey by NALP,
formerly known as The National Association for Law Placement.  NALP’s 2012 survey found that 32.67 percent of the lawyers
at 1,209 offices across the U.S. are women, compared with 32.61
percent in 2011. In 2009, the percentage of women was 32.97
percent. The number of women associates fell to 45.05 percent in
2012 from 45.66 percent in 2009. Women comprised 19.91 percent
of the firms’ partners, up from 19.21 percent in 2009.  “While the percentage of women partners, small as it is,
has continued to grow, that incremental growth will likely
become unsustainable if the percentage of women associates
continues to inch downward,” James Leipold, NALP’s executive
director, said in a statement. The organization began compiling
employment statistics in the 1990s.  Minority associate representation at law firms increased
slightly since falling in the wake of the recession, the
organization said.  Minority lawyers made up 12.91 percent of lawyers at the
firms surveyed, compared with 12.59 percent in 2009. In 2012,
minorities accounted for 6.71 percent of partners in the
nation’s major firms, up from 6.05 percent in 2009, NALP said.  Jefferson County Lawyer Says Creditor Tactics Threaten Talks  Jefferson County,  Alabama , may break off debt-reduction
talks with  hedge funds  holding more than $700 million in
defaulted sewer warrants because of the group’s litigation
tactics, the county’s lead bankruptcy lawyers said.  Should the hedge funds try to question county commissioners
under oath about settlement talks the county is holding with its
major creditors, negotiations with the funds will end, attorney
Kenneth Klee, of Klee Tuchin Bogdanoff & Stern LLP, said in an
interview. Dec. 12, the hedge funds, who call themselves the ad
hoc group of sewer warrant holders, won permission from a judge
to depose three commissioners about their efforts to end the
county’s bankruptcy.  The depositions may give the hedge funds an unfair
advantage in negotiations, which continued in  New York  this
week, county attorney Patrick Darby, of Bradley Arant Rose &
White LLP,  said in court Dec. 12.  “I can’t fly to New York and ask his clients what their
real number is,” Darby said, referring to hedge fund lawyer
Gregory Horowitz, of Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP. “I
can’t ask under oath what a reasonable settlement number is.”  The county yesterday was scheduled to end three days of
talks with representatives of creditors who hold more than $3
billion in sewer warrants at the heart of the county’s
bankruptcy. The hedge funds and other sewer-warrant holders have
asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas Bennett to let them sue
Jefferson County in Alabama state court over sewer rates that
don’t raise enough money to cover the system’s debt payments.  Bennett ruled Dec. 12 that the sewer creditors can question
three county commissioners under oath to collect evidence to
support the lawsuit request. To sue a municipality in
bankruptcy, creditors need permission from the judge overseeing
the case.  “If the ad hoc group wants to take discovery of
commissioners under oath about the substance of the settlement
discussions, we are not going to have settlement discussions
until the litigation is over,” Klee said in an interview.  Jefferson County filed for bankruptcy in 2011, blaming the
loss of  tax revenue  when a business-related tax was struck down
by a state court and the high cost of the sewer debt.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  Deals  Gibson Dunn, Latham Among Firms on Williams $2.4 Billion Stake  Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP, Latham & Watkins LLP, Wachtell,
Lipton, Rosen & Katz and Jones Day took part in a deal involving
 Williams Cos. (WMB) , the third-largest U.S. pipeline company, taking a
$2.4 billion stake in private-equity-backed shale-pipeline
operator  Access Midstream Partners LP. (ACMP)   Williams, based in Tulsa,  Oklahoma , agreed to acquire a 25
percent stake in Access Midstream and 50 percent of its general
partner, according to a statement.  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  shed
its stake in the Access pipeline venture, formerly known as
Chesapeake Midstream, in June.  Gibson, Dunn represented Williams in the investment. The
deal team included partners Steven Talley, mergers and
acquisitions; Richard Russo and Robyn Zolman, securities; and
Janet Vance, finance. Williams’s in-house team included John
Gammie, Tami Anderson, Mary Frances Edmonds and Sarah Miller,
the firm said.  Latham & Watkins advised Access Midstream Partners with a
corporate deal team led by New York partners Ted Sonnenschein
and Eli Hunt. Advice also was provided by Houston corporate
partners Jeffrey Munoz and Ryan Maierson and New York corporate
partner Charles Carpenter; New York tax partner David Raab and
Houston tax partner Tim Fenn; Houston finance partners Craig
Kornreich and Catherine Ozdogan; Los Angeles benefits and
compensation partner David Taub; Washington antitrust and
compensation partner Tad Lipsky; Houston environment, land and
resources partner Joel Mack; New York investment funds partner
Andrea Schwartzman; Washington project finance partner Ken Simon
and employee benefits and compensation partner Jed Brickner.  Jones Day  is advising Access Midstream Partners as well.
Its team was led by energy partners Jeff Schlegel on the
transactional side and Darrell Taylor,  capital markets , on the
finance side. The Jones Day team also included partners  Joshua
Fuchs, business and tort litigation; Mark Temple, labor and
employment; and Todd Wallace, tax.  Wachtell, Lipton is serving as legal adviser to Chesapeake
Energy’s board with a team led by corporate partner David A.
Katz. Ray Lees at Commercial Law Group is the outside counsel
representing Chesapeake Energy in the deal, the firm said.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Deutsche Bank Hired Law Fried Frank in 2010 for Probe  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  hired  law firm  Fried Frank Harris Shriver
& Jacobson LLP in March 2010 to conduct an internal probe days
after a trader alleged the bank had misrepresented the value of
derivatives to mask paper losses during the financial crisis.  The law firm found no wrongdoing, Deutsche Bank Chief
Financial Officer  Stefan Krause  told analysts and investors on a
conference call yesterday. While Fried Frank found limitations
to the bank’s model, no adjustments to valuations were needed
and the company switched to a new model in early 2010, Krause
said.  Questions about how Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank valued
the assets resurfaced last week when a former quantitative risk
analyst at the bank, Eric Ben-Artzi, said the lender hid losses,
helping it avoid state aid at the height of the financial
crisis. Deutsche Bank rejected the allegations, which related to
a portfolio of collateralized insurance agreements that
protected against the risk of corporate defaults.  Fried Frank lawyers met with dozens of witnesses and spent
several days with the trader for the credit correlation desk, as
well as auditors, and reviewed millions of documents, said two
people with knowledge of the probe, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is private. Deutsche Bank reported
the trader’s allegations to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission in June of 2010, according to the people.  “The valuations and financial reporting were proper, and a
significant portion of these positions were subsequently unwound
in an orderly sale,”  Renee Calabro , a spokeswoman for Deutsche
Bank in New York, said in a statement last week. The claims were
false, and the bank will continue to cooperate with the SEC’s
investigation, she said.  Ben-Artzi met with senior executives at the bank to explain
his concerns and was provided contact details for the SEC lawyer
handling the investigation, the people said. He turned down an
opportunity to present a different valuation methodology, they
said.  Fried Frank debriefed Ben-Artzi and incorporated his
allegations into its investigation, which has since concluded,
said the people who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Ben-Artzi, who joined the bank in 2010, is suing Deutsche
Bank for wrongful dismissal after he lost his job in 2011,
according to a  statement  last week from Labaton Sucharow LLP,
his New York-based law firm.  Ben-Artzi alleges that from 2007 to 2010, Deutsche Bank,
Europe’s biggest bank by assets, misrepresented the value of a
portfolio with a notional value of as much as $130 billion,
Labaton Sucharow said last week.  For more, click here.  Venable Names Tysons Corner Office Partner-in-Charge  Venable LLP said Joseph C. Schmelter will become partner-
in-charge of the Tysons Corner,  Virginia , office at the start of
the new year. He succeeds David S. Smith, who returns to his
labor and health-care practice.  Douglas B. McDonald continues as administrative partner for
the Tysons Corner office.  Schmelter, a 1987 graduate of Georgetown University School
of Law, joined Venable as a third year associate in 1990, and
currently co-chairs the firm’s government contractor services
industry group. His corporate practice focuses on mergers and
acquisitions and general corporate representation, including
within the government contracts industry.  Venable’s Tysons Corner office opened in 1985 when the firm
merged with Dolan, Murray, Treanor & Walsh. Since its inception,
the office has been led by five partners-in-charge.  Venable has lawyers in seven U.S. offices.  Moves  Davis Polk Hires Clifford Chance’s Rogers for Asia Disputes  Davis Polk  & Wardwell LLP, the New York-based law firm
which advised on $31 billion worth of share sales this year,
hired Martin Rogers from  Clifford Chance  LLP to set up a
litigation practice in Asia.  Rogers and James Wadham, a regulatory lawyer at London-
based Clifford Chance, will join Davis Polk as partners in  Hong
Kong , extending the firm’s ability to advise clients on disputes
in Asia, according to a statement yesterday.  The hiring announcement comes a day after Hong Kong’s
securities regulator said it would proceed with plans to make
banks criminally liable for false statements in initial public
offering documents. Rogers as Clifford Chance’s head of
litigation in Asia, and Bonnie Chan, a Davis Polk partner,
advised 23 banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG
on their response to the regulator’s proposals.  Davis Polk established its Hong Kong law practice two years
ago and is expanding as the Chinese city heads for its worst
year for initial public offerings since 2003.  The firm ranked sixth this year based on the value of share
sales among legal advisers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Clifford Chance said in an e-mailed statement that it
continued to have a strong litigation and disputes practice in
Asia with more than 70 lawyers in the region and a recent
expansion in Singapore.  Barnes & Thornburg’s Michigan Office Adds IP Partner  Barnes & Thornburg LLP said Frank M. Scutch joined the
firm’s Michigan office as a partner in the national intellectual
property department. He was most recently a partner at Price
Heneveld LLP.  Scutch focuses on licensing and technology agreements,
litigation, patent and trademark preparation and prosecution,
intellectual property rights and protection, among other
matters.  At Barnes & Thornburg, Scutch will concentrate primarily in
the areas of electrical, electro-mechanical, mechanical, and
software-related inventions.  Barnes & Thornburg’s IP department, comprising more than
100 attorneys and other legal professionals, has added five
attorneys in addition to Scutch in recent weeks in the Delaware
and Washington offices, the firm said.  Barnes & Thornburg LLP has more than 600 attorneys and
other legal professionals at 12 U.S. offices.  ,  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 