-- World’s Richest Gain $6 Billion as Batista Gets Battered
-- B y   T o m   M e t c a l f   a n d   D e v o n   P e n d l e t o n
-- 2012-12-14T22:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/world-s-richest-gain-6-billion-as-batista-gets-battered.html
The 100 wealthiest people on the
planet added $6.1 billion to their collective net worth this
week as global markets steadied amid signs of an improving U.S.
labor market and hopes that European leaders would spare
taxpayers from having to fund a bailout of the region’s troubled
banks.  Warren Buffett , 82, the world’s fourth-richest man, gained
$950 million during the week, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index . On Dec. 11, the U.S. billionaire called for
an increase in U.S. estate taxes on the wealthy. U.S. lawmakers
are deciding on tax policies that expire at the end of the year.  “The market remains incredibly resistant, taking bad news
in its stride, while rallying on positive developments,” Jeff
Mortimer, a Boston-based director of investor strategy at BNY
Mellon Wealth Management, said by e-mail. “While we expect some
near-term choppiness in both the equity and fixed income
markets, we believe that investors using weakness to establish
long positions in equities will be rewarded.” His firm oversees
$178 billion in client assets.  Unemployment insurance claims in the U.S. fell more than
forecast following the addition of 146,000 jobs in November.
Labor Department figures showed the country’s jobless rate fell
to 7.7 percent. The U.S. Federal Reserve said it intends to keep
policy accommodative until employment falls below 6.5 percent.  At the European Union summit in Brussels, finance ministers
agreed to measures that may pave the way to relieving the
banking and sovereign debt crisis in the region. After the
summit, French President  Francois Hollande  predicted an economic
turnaround next year.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.32  percent
during the week to close at 1413.58 in  New York . The Stoxx
 Europe  600 Index was little changed, closing at 279.40.  Batista Battered  Brazil ’s  Eike Batista , 56, dropped 38 places on the index
after  Bloomberg News  reported that the commodities tycoon
promised a 5 percent annual return on a $2 billion investment
from Abu Dhabi’s Mubadala Development Co. When Batista sold the
sovereign wealth fund 5.63 percent of his EBX Group Co. in
March, he also pledged an unspecified additional stake in 2019
if he fails to meet the target, according to a person with
knowledge of the deal.  As a result, Batista’s fortune plummeted by $6.4 billion
for the week. He is now the world’s 74th-richest person, down
from 36th on Dec. 12, with a net worth of $12.5 billion,
according to the index. Batista’s former title as the richest
Brazilian is now held by 73-year-old banker  Jorge Paulo Lemann ,
who ranks 36th on the index with an $19.1 billion fortune.  Slim, Ortega  The richest man in Europe,  Amancio Ortega , 76, gained 2.3
billion after Inditex, the world’s biggest clothing retailer and
owner of the Zara fashion chain, reported a 27 percent increase
in net income to 1.66 billion euros ($2.2 billion) despite
slowing sales in the third quarter. Inditex shares reversed the
losses it posted on Dec. 13 when the company failed to beat
analyst estimates for the first time in more than three years.
Ortega is worth $56 billion.  Carlos Slim , 72, remains the world’s richest man. The
Mexican telecommunications tycoon gained $2.4 billion, as shares
of  America Movil (AMX)  SAB rose 2.36 percent after announcing its
Telcel unit is selling prepaid mobile phone plans to Mexican-
American users. Slim’s net worth is estimated at $75.7 billion.  The Bloomberg Billionaires Index takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in New York. The valuations are
listed in U.S. dollars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Metcalf in London at 
 tmetcalf7@bloomberg.net ; Devon Pendleton in London at 
   dpendleton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  