-- Worst Premier for JGBs Since ’94 Poised for Return
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2012-12-14T07:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-14/worst-premier-for-jgbs-since-94-poised-for-return-japan-credit.html
The worst  prime minister  for
Japanese  government bonds  in almost two decades is poised to
return, ousting the best since 2006.  Shinzo Abe, the front-runner to replace Yoshihiko Noda in
elections this weekend, oversaw a 1.2 percent gain when he was
in office for a year through September 2007, the least since a
loss in the two months that Tsutomu Hata was in power in 1994.
In the 15 months under Noda’s watch, JGBs returned 3.2 percent,
the most among the six successors to  Junichiro Koizumi , who
stepped down in 2006,  data  compiled by the European Federation
of Financial Analyst Societies and Bloomberg show.  Abe is ahead in the polls after pledging to increase
spending and encourage unlimited monetary easing to revive
growth in the third-largest economy. Noda staked his career on
raising the  sales tax  to rein in the world’s  biggest debt ,
helping drive bond yields to a nine-year low. Costs to protect
JGBs fell by the most of any other premier since data became
available in 2004 and are lower than eight nations in  Europe .  “Noda has been friendly to the  bond market , and he
literally risked his political career for  Japan ’s fiscal
consolidation,” Shunsuke Doi, a market analyst in  Tokyo  at SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc., one of the 25 primary dealers obliged to
bid at government debt sales, said on Dec. 12. “An Abe
administration would be an unfriendly environment for bonds, and
super-long term yields are more likely to remain high in years
ahead.”  Yield Spread  Longer-term bonds are signaling concern Japan’s fiscal
health will worsen. The  yield premium  on 20-year JGBs over 10-
year securities climbed to 99 basis points on Dec. 5, the
highest since 1999. That compares with a gap of 68 basis points
for similar maturity  U.S. Treasuries .  Abe’s September 2007  statement  for resignation from Japan’s
top office made no mention of his economic record except for a
growth strategy “centered on innovation and openness.” It
listed the upgrade of Japan’s defense agency to a ministry-level
position among his achievements.  Japan’s debt has climbed to 237 percent of its annual
economic output, the most in the world, compared with 183
percent in 2007 during Abe’s previous tenure as prime minister,
according to data estimates by the  International Monetary Fund .  A government auction of 2.3 trillion yen of five-year notes
attracted bids valued at 3.54 times the amount on offer
yesterday, less than the previous month’s ratio of 4.96 times
and the 3.91 times average in the prior 10 sales, according to
Ministry of Finance data.  Korea Samurai  Elsewhere in domestic credit markets, Korea Finance Corp.
sold 20 billion yen ($239 million) of two-year, 0.58 percent
Samurai bonds, according to a statement yesterday from Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. Samurais are yen-denominated notes sold in
Japan by overseas borrowers.  Meiji Holdings Co., a Tokyo-based seller of chocolate and
milk, offered 20 billion yen of five-year, 0.325 percent debt,
Daiwa Securities Group Inc. said yesterday.  The extra yield that investors demand to own Japanese
corporate bonds rather than sovereign securities has fallen 4
basis points this year to 46 basis points yesterday, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. The spread for Samurai
notes has dropped 82 basis points to 77 during the period, the
data show. One basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The yen slid to 83.96 per dollar today, the weakest since
March 21. The Japanese currency has depreciated 6.5 percent in
the past month, the worst performer among 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, as
Abe called for a 2 percent inflation goal for the  Bank of Japan. (8301)   BOJ Policy  The BOJ raised the benchmark  interest rate  to 0.5 percent
in February 2007 during Abe’s tenure, matching the highest level
since 1995. It cut the rate back to 0.1 percent less than two
years later as the global financial crisis battered exports and
weighed on  consumer spending .  Japan’s central bank now targets a rate of between zero and
0.1 percent, and has a 66 trillion-yen fund to buy assets such
as government bonds. Its board will meet Dec. 19-20.  Policy makers have failed to overcome deflation since Abe
was prime minister.  Consumer prices  excluding fresh food have
fallen 0.1 percent on average every month since 2006, government
data show.  Election Poll  Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party  is set to win almost 300
seats in the 480-seat lower house of parliament in the Dec. 16
elections,  Kyodo News  reported yesterday, citing its polls of
voters. A separate Kyodo poll showed on Dec. 10 that 39.2
percent of respondents favored Abe as the next prime minister,
compared with 30.7 percent for Noda.  The LDP is proposing a “large scale” supplementary budget
to stimulate the economy, according to  election pledges  posted
on its website. It also plans to turn Japan’s government deficit
into a surplus by the year ending March 2021, excluding debt
service fees and revenue from bond issuance.  “The LDP’s election pledges are actually very fiscally
contractionary,”  Katsutoshi Inadome , a fixed-income strategist
in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., a
primary dealer, said on Dec. 11. “If Abe follows them word by
word, it would boost investor confidence and spur bond buying.”  The cost to protect Japan’s debt from non-payment for five
years has fallen 36 basis points since Noda took office in
September last year, Bloomberg data show. The cost of the
credit-default swap was almost unchanged when Abe was in power.  Sales Tax  Noda was the first prime minister since 1997 to push
through legislation to raise the nation’s sales tax, setting it
on a course to double to 10 percent by 2015. Abe said on Dec. 9
that economic conditions next year will determine whether the
increase will take effect.  Sentiment among Japan’s large manufacturers slid to a near
three-year low, according a quarterly report from the central
bank today. The BOJ Tankan index for large companies fell to
minus 12 in December from minus 3 in September, a fifth straight
negative reading and the lowest since March 2010. A negative
figure means pessimists outnumber optimists.  Japan’s economy shrank at an annualized 3.5 percent pace in
the third quarter after a 0.1 percent contraction in the period
ended June 30, marking the start of a technical recession.  The benchmark 10-year  bond yield  has fallen 33 basis points
during Noda’s tenure and was at 0.725 percent today. It touched
0.685 percent on Dec. 6, the lowest since June 2003. The rate
rose four basis points when Abe was the premier. It was around
1.6 percent when he took power.  Japan’s 30-year bond rate touched 1.955 percent today,
matching the highest since Oct. 31, before trading at 1.945
percent at 4:09 p.m. in Tokyo.  “While the tax increase is a step forward for Japan’s
fiscal consolidation, Noda’s lack of a growth strategy also
contributed to the decline in yields,” Makoto Suzuki, a senior
bond strategist in Tokyo at Okasan Securities Co., said on Dec
12. “The Noda administration has been friendly to bonds, but I
wouldn’t say it’s been friendly to Japan overall.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  