-- Abu Dhabi Wealth Fund Cuts Reliance on External Managers
-- B y   D a l e   C r o f t s
-- 2013-05-27T10:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/abu-dhabi-wealth-fund-cutting-reliance-on-external-fund-managers.html
Abu Dhabi  Investment Authority, among
the world’s biggest sovereign wealth funds, is curbing reliance
on outside fund managers and reducing holdings in developed-world shares in favor of emerging market investments.  The fund counts on external investors to manage about 75
percent of assets, down from 80 percent in 2011, it said in its
 annual report  for last year released today. ADIA, as the fund is
known, also reported that 55 percent of its assets are invested
in so-called index-replicating strategies, down from 60 percent,
as it boosts investments in alternative assets.  Abu Dhabi, capital of the  United Arab Emirates  and home to
about 6 percent of the world’s proven oil reserves, is seeking
to diversify from crude exports with investments abroad. The
wealth fund, which doesn’t disclose the value of its assets, is
building up in-house teams in areas such as real estate and
private equity as it seeks greater control over investments.  The 37-year-old fund, with about 1,400 employees and led by
Managing Director Sheikh Hamed bin Zayed  Al Nahyan , also cut its
target range for developed world equities in its portfolio to 32
percent to 42 percent, down from 35 percent to 45 percent a year
earlier. It expects to invest 10 percent to 20 percent of assets
in emerging market equities, unchanged from 2011.  Emerging Markets  “Economic leadership is passing to emerging markets, not
just as their weight in the global economy passes 50 percent,
but as their share of likely future global growth moves far
higher,” Sheikh Hamed wrote in the report. “As a bloc they
continue to offer exciting and attractive opportunities to
deploy capital.”  ADIA has generated annualized returns of 7.6 percent over
the past two decades and 8.2 percent for the past 30 years,
according to the report. In addition to developed and emerging
market equities, the fund also invests in small cap equities,
fixed income, infrastructure,  hedge funds  and private equity.  Earlier this month, it hired former Deutsche Bank AG
executive  John McCarthy  as global head of infrastructure. In
January, it appointed Gregory Eckersley head of its internal
equities department, overseeing portfolios, risk management and
the due diligence process. Colm Lanigan, a former Credit Suisse
First Boston banker, was named head of Principal Investments in
its private equity unit in October and Marc Keirstead as chief
financial officer of private equities department.  ‘Busy Year’  “It was a busy year on the recruitment front with key
appointments made in a number of departments,” Sheikh Hamed
wrote.  ADIA also boosted its allocation to  Chinese equities  last
year after receiving approval from the market regulator under
the so-called Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor scheme.
The fund boosted its holding to $500 million in the third
quarter, up from an earlier limit of $200 million, it said.  It also highlighted the “rapid expansion in the
international use of the Chinese  Yuan  in global trade and
financial markets.” The yuan’s progress towards becoming an
international currency “is more rapid than had been expected
and should offer more opportunities to global investors in
coming years,” ADIA said.  The fund’s fixed income and treasury department also began
investing in non-investment grade debt securities in the second
half of last year amid declining yields in major  government
bonds . A 30-year  bull market  in sovereign bonds has likely ended
and investors will need to manage their portfolios with the
expectation of lower fixed income returns, ADIA said.  40 Nationalities  ADIA, which has employees from about 40 nationalities,
seeks to invest between 35 percent and 50 percent of its assets
in the U.S., with a further 15 percent to 25 percent targeted
for  emerging markets . The fund expects to have 20 percent to 35
percent of its portfolio in  Europe , with the remainder invested
in so-called developed Asian markets.  The fund, which doesn’t invest in the United Arab Emirates,
counts on Emirati nationals for about a third of its workforce.
It is funded from the budget surplus of Abu Dhabi and government
withdrawals have been infrequent, coinciding with extreme or
prolonged commodity price weakness, it said.  West Texas Intermediate crude fell for a fifth day, the
longest run of declines this year, as  China  signaled it may
accept a slower economic growth rate. WTI for July delivery fell
as much as 92 cents to $93.23 a barrel in electronic trading on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange  and was at $93.66 at 10:08 a.m.
London time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dale Crofts in Dubai at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  