-- African Union Summit Backs Return of Kenyan ICC Cases
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2013-05-27T17:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/african-leaders-set-to-back-return-of-kenyan-icc-cases.html
African leaders backed a Kenyan
proposal that the International Criminal Court refer its cases
against President Uhuru Kenyatta and Vice President William Ruto
back to the East African nation, African Union Chairman
Hailemariam Desalegn said.  The ICC cases against  Kenya ’s leaders are a demonstration
of the court’s “flawed” process on the continent, Hailemariam,
who is also Ethiopia’s prime minister, said at the end of a two-day African Union summit in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa.
All of the seven cases currently before the ICC are against
Africans, according to its  website . Thirty-four African nations
are members of The Hague-based court.  “The intention was to avoid any kind of impunity, of ill
governance and the kind, but now the process has degenerated
into some kind of race hunting rather than the objective of
taking care of crimes and impunities,” Hailemariam said.  Kenyatta, 51, is the second sitting president along with
 Sudan ’s Umar al-Bashir to face trial at the Hague-based ICC. The
Kenyan leader and Ruto, 46, are accused of organizing and
financing militias to carry out murders after a disputed 2007
presidential election sparked ethnic and political violence in
which more than 1,100 people died. The two men, who came to
power following a vote in March, say they will fight to prove
their innocence at the court.  ICC principles state that cases should be heard
domestically, which is possible now because Kenya’s new legal
system is “much stronger and more independent,” AU Peace and
Security Commissioner Ramtane Lamamra said.  Kenyan Constitution  Kenya enacted a new constitution in 2010 as part of a peace
accord that ended the 2007 post-election violence. Among the key
aims of the charter was to strengthen the judiciary’s
independence from the executive to build trust in its authority.
Since the enactment in August 2010, the country has appointed a
new chief justice, established a Supreme Court and undergone a
process of vetting its judges.  Kenya’s successful election in March also demonstrates it’s
capable of hearing the cases,  Ethiopia ’s Foreign Minister Tedros
Adhanom said in an interview at the summit yesterday.  Only Botswana objected to the request for the ICC to
transfer the cases, Sudanese Foreign Minister Nhial Deng Nhial
said in an interview today.  African leaders also decided to create an “intervening
force” to deal with African crises including coup d’etats,
Hailemariam said. “Almost all countries have agreed we will
have a rapid response capability in  Africa ,” he said.  Stabilizing Force  The measure is until an African Standby Force to stabilize
crisis-hit countries is deployed as early as 2015, Lamamra said.
It’s uncertain whether the standby force will be ready in 2015,
he said.  South Africa, Uganda and Ethiopia volunteered to implement
the interim initiative, which will be funded solely by
contributing nations, he told reporters today.  African states will still need foreign assistance as
security operations are financially “very demanding,” Tedros
said. Ethiopian troops fighting al-Qaeda-affiliated militants in
neighboring Somalia are funded by Ethiopia’s government.  “The force could be 100 percent from us but we still will
need logistics support from the international community,” he
said.  Current conflicts on the continent include Nigeria’s battle
against Islamist militants. President Goodluck Jonathan imposed
emergency rule in three northeastern Nigerian states on May 14
and began a ground and air offensive against Boko Haram, which
seeks to impose Shariah law in Africa’s biggest oil-producing
nation.  Congo Fighting  In eastern Democratic Republic of Congo, fighting has
flared for the first time in six months between members of the
M23 rebel group and government soldiers. The UN is stationing an
intervention brigade there to support a peacekeeping mission.  French military forces intervened earlier this year to
fight Islamist rebels in  Mali , part of a region awash with
weapons and armed groups after the overthrow of former Libyan
leader Muammar Qaddafi. The United Nations Security Council on
April 25 authorized the deployment to Mali of 11,200 peace-keepers and a separate French unit to end the threat of the
insurgents. The force was criticized by the AU. The UN should
authorize more “robust” missions that can combat aggressors,
Lamamra said.  To end reliance on foreign partners that fund the union,
leaders decided governments will suggest new financing
mechanisms, such as additional national taxes on flights or
hotel rooms, Lamamra said.  The decisions on funding and the interim force are “of
historic nature and scope,” Lamamra said.  The summit, which ended today, marked half a century since
the formation of the Organization of African Unity. The OAU was
disbanded and succeeded by the AU in 2002.  “There was no better time than the context of 50th
anniversary to take bold decisions that show it’s not business
as usual,” Lamamra said. “We mean to do things better, and do
things more efficiently and unanimously.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  