-- Africa Development Bank Sees Growth Rising on Oil, Investment
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-05-27T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/africa-development-bank-sees-growth-rising-on-oil-investment.html
Africa ’s economic growth is expected
to accelerate this year and next, led by oil and mining projects
in West Africa and a resurgence in foreign direct investment,
according to the African Development Bank.  Gross domestic product, excluding Libya and Somalia, will
rise 4.5 percent this year from 4.2 percent in 2012, the bank
said in its annual African Economic Outlook released in
Marrakech,  Morocco . Expansion will reach 5.2 percent in 2014.  Foreign direct investment may rise more than 10 percent to
$56.6 billion this year, near the record set in 2008, while
portfolio inflows are set to increase to a record $26.2 billion.  “The main engines of growth are expected to be expansion
in agricultural production, robust growth in services and a rise
in oil production and increased mining activity mainly in
resource-rich nations,” according to the report.  “The main short-term challenge for the continent is to
consolidate stable macroeconomic conditions in the face of a
more volatile economic environment.”  The estimate leaves out Libya, because the revolution there
has distorted economic growth, and Somalia, the bank said.
Somalia’s new government is seeking to rebuild its economy after
more than 20 years of anarchy and 15 failed attempts at creating
a stable central administration.  Growth in the world’s poorest continent will be buoyed by
rising domestic demand and increased output of commodities,
offsetting a slowdown in  China  and another possible recession in
Europe, according to the report.  Western Anchor  West Africa will help anchor growth, the bank said. The
region encompasses Ivory Coast, the world’s largest cocoa
producer, and Nigeria, the continent’s biggest oil producer. The
outlook is weaker for southern and northern Africa, it said.  “In southern Africa, growth will remain blighted by the
slow recovery in South Africa,” the bank, based in Tunis, said.  “In North Africa, the slow pace of transition to democracy
is likely to continue to affect the economies of the region,
despite the strong recovery in Libya’s oil production.”  While some commodity prices have fallen this year, the
benefits are still flowing for exporters of natural resources,
it said. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI  gauge  of 24 commodities has
fallen 3.4 percent so far this year.  “Commodity prices remain well elevated to support growth
of resource-rich countries,” the report said.  Inflation has been helped by easing commodity prices, the
bank said. Africa’s inflation rate will drop to 7.4 percent in
2013 from 9.1 percent last year, although consumer-price growth
remains above-target for many countries, limiting scope for
central banks to lower borrowing costs, the bank said.  “Monetary policies in many African countries will have to
continue to strike a balance between controlling inflation and
supporting economic growth,” the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  