-- Taiwan to Unveil Economic Stimulus Plan by May 31 to Spur Growth
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 2013-05-27T10:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/taiwan-to-unveil-economic-stimulus-plan-by-may-31-to-spur-growth.html
Taiwan  plans to announce stimulus
measures this week to boost the economy after lowering its
forecast for expansion in 2013 as the global recovery falters.  Premier Jiang Yi-huah is reviewing proposals from
ministries for aiding growth before an announcement due by May
31, Cabinet spokeswoman Cheng Li-wun said by phone today.  Taiwan’s statistics bureau last week lowered its forecast
for  gross domestic product  growth this year to 2.4 percent from
3.59 percent. President Ma Ying-jeou has sought closer trade and
investment ties with  China  to aid expansion, and the two sides
will sign a service-trade agreement in the “near future,” Wang
Yu-chi, Minister of Taiwan’s Mainland Affairs Council, said in a
briefing in Taipei today.  “The economic stimulus plan will include various measures,
including for the stock market and domestic consumption,” Cheng
said, without giving details.  The  Taiwan dollar  closed 0.2 percent higher at NT$29.971
against its U.S. counterpart. It has slipped almost 3 percent
this year.  China claims Taiwan as a province, and they have been ruled
separately since 1949, when the Kuomintang government fled to
the island following defeat in the Chinese civil war.  The two sides have signed 18 agreements since Ma took
office in 2008, including an Economic Cooperation Framework
Agreement in June 2010. Chinese banks will be allowed to take up
to 10 percent in Taiwanese listed financial holding companies,
hold 15 percent in unlisted financial holding companies and a
maximum of 20 percent in banks when the service-trade agreement
takes effect, Wang said.  Accelerate Talks  The service-trade pact is also expected to accelerate
goods-trade talks between the two sides, which may be completed
at year-end, Cho Shih-chao, deputy minister at the Ministry of
Economic Affairs, said today.  The stimulus plan may include steering life-insurance
company funds to public construction projects, Taipei-based
Commercial Times reported today, citing unnamed officials. The
government may also provide cash incentives to vehicle owners
who trade in old cars for new ones, the paper said May 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  