-- Fridman Faces Africa Setback After Failed Bid in Russia
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-05-27T21:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/altimo-s-orascom-telecom-bid-falls-short.html
Russian billionaire  Mikhail Fridman 
suffered a second setback this year for an effort to expand his
telecommunications empire as his bid for Orascom Telecom Holding
SAE failed to win support.  An offer of as much as $1.8 billion by Fridman’s Altimo for
full control of  Egypt ’s Orascom failed after holders of 16
percent of the shares accepted it by yesterday’s deadline.
Altimo, whose carrier  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  already owns about 52
percent of Orascom, sought to buy the remaining 48 percent.  The result hinders Fridman’s bid to consolidate his phone
assets in  Africa  and  Asia  and puts pressure on him to boost his
offer. Fridman reaching control of 75 percent of Cairo-based
Orascom would pave the way for him to delist the carrier and
fully combine it with VimpelCom, reducing costs, according to
Alexander Kazbegi, a Renaissance Capital analyst.  This is the second failure for Fridman and his partners
since they received $14 billion in March from selling shares in
 oil company  TNK-BP to a state-controlled producer. That same
month, Fridman’s company made an unsuccessful $4 billion offer
for  Tele2 AB’s (TEL2B)  Russian wireless unit, seeking to trump its
acquisition by Russian state lender VTB Group.  VimpelCom acquired Orascom, which operates in Algeria,
Pakistan and  Bangladesh , from Egyptian billionaire  Naguib
Sawiris  two years ago and still has an Orascom office in Egypt,
where it is traded and has no operations. As a result of that
deal, VimpelCom is now world’s  seventh-largest  wireless carrier
and has $28.6 billion debt.  Seeking Growth  Still, growth at VimpelCom is slowing, with the company
reporting no increase in revenue for first three months of this
year. That’s driving Fridman to chase deals such as Tele2
 Russia , which would have given him control of the  fourth-largest 
mobile operator in an expanding market, and Orascom, which is
adding subscribers in regions including sub-Saharan Africa.  Orascom Telecom  rose  1.3 percent, the most in almost six
weeks, to 4.57 Egyptian pounds (65 cents) at the close in Cairo
yesterday, valuing the company at $3.4 billion. Altimo’s offer
was 70 cents per Cairo-listed share or $3.5 per global
depository share.  “The acceptance rate of Altimo’s Orascom shows the price
wasn’t generous enough for shareholders,” Ahmed Adel, an
analyst at Cairo-based Naeem Brokerage, said by phone. “The
rejected offer price sets a bottom line for future offers.”  Orascom’s board had recommended that shareholders reject
the offer as too low. The offer undervalued the company by as
much as 36 percent, especially if the company avoids a $1.3
billion fine in  Algeria  by reaching a resolution to an ownership
dispute over its local unit with the government, Orascom’s
valuation adviser said last month.  Delisting Bid?  Altimo made its bid through its Baskindale Ltd. unit, which
is now banned from making another offer for Orascom Telecom for
six months, according to Egyptian Financial Supervisory
Authority regulations. Altimo said last week it won’t raise its
offer price.  Altimo said yesterday it will apply for permission from
EFSA to buy the 16 percent of shares tendered even as the amount
didn’t reach the minimum sought. EFSA Chairman Ashraf El Sharkawy couldn’t be reached for comment.  Should Altimo obtain the 16 percent, the stake controlled
by it and VimpelCom combined would be about 68 percent. That
might be enough to prompt Fridman to attempt to delist Orascom,
said Renaissance’s Kazbegi, who is based in Moscow. While a 75
percent support is needed for such a move to pass in a
shareholder meeting, Fridman’s stake may be large enough as some
shareholders normally skip meetings, Kazbegi said.  Altimo Vice President Evgeny Dumalkin declined to comment
on any delisting plan. Orascom’s investor relations head Mamdouh Abdel Wahab declined to comment on the tender offer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  