-- Tanzania President Says Negotiations Only Solution in East Congo
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-05-27T10:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/tanzania-president-says-negotiations-only-solution-in-east-congo.html
Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete
said only negotiations between the  Democratic Republic  of Congo
government and rebels from the M23 group will bring about
lasting change to the conflict-torn region.  The  United Nations  is deploying a so-called “intervention
brigade” with a strengthened mandate to attack members of the
M23 militia and other armed groups, supporting a peacekeeping
mission already stationed in eastern Congo. Tanzania and other
Southern African Development Community member states have
pledged troops, Kikwete said.  “The deployment of the intervention brigade in eastern
Congo is critical in the short term, but we must find a
political solution through dialogue,” said Kikwete, according
to a statement e-mailed today from his office in the commercial
capital of  Dar es Salaam . “The talks are very important despite
failure to meet the original deadline of three weeks and having
entered their sixth month; they should be encouraged to ensure
we get a lasting solution.”  In November, M23 rebels seized Goma, a major trading center
in eastern Congo. They withdrew 11 days later under pressure
from the international community and on the condition Congolese
President  Joseph Kabila  would engage in talks.  The discussions, convened by the Conference on the Great
Lakes Region under the chairmanship of Ugandan President  Yoweri Museveni , have stalled. Hostilities flared last week in the
region before a visit by United Nations Secretary Ban Ki-Moon.  The group is made up of hundreds of soldiers who deserted
the army last April after accusing the government of failing to
honor the terms of a 2009 peace deal that incorporated them into
the national military. The Congolese government says the M23
violated the agreement by taking up arms rather than talking
about their grievances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  