-- Dollar Bond Spreads in Asia at 3-Week High Amid Fed Taper Talk
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-05-27T06:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/asia-pacific-bond-risk-rises-to-four-week-high-swap-prices-show.html
The extra yield investors demand to
hold U.S. dollar-denominated corporate bonds from Asia outside
of Japan rose to a three-week high amid speculation the  Federal
Reserve  may cut the pace of asset purchases in coming meetings.  The premium over Treasuries climbed six basis points last
week to 284 basis points, the highest since May 3, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Asian borrowers raised
$2.1 billion selling notes in the U.S. currency in the five days
ended May 24, the least in seven weeks, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Regional borrowing costs have tracked Treasury yields
higher as Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week that
policy makers may cut the pace of bond purchases at the next few
meetings if they see indications of sustained growth. Asian
dollar bonds dropped 0.6 percent in May, which, if sustained,
would be the biggest monthly loss since November 2011, the
Merrill Lynch index data show.  “Fed officials are trying to leave themselves some
options, but the market seems wary that they will slow the pace
of their purchases,” said Brayan Lai, a Singapore-based analyst
in emerging-market credit trading at Jefferies Group LLC. “We
may see a moderation in buying or new issues with larger
premiums in credit markets.”  Companies in the region have sold a record $81.3 billion of
notes in 2013, the most for any first five months of the year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg since 1999.  Zoomlion Decline  Notes from Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science & Technology Co.
declined after the company halted shares in Shenzhen and  Hong
Kong  following a report on Sina.com saying it falsified sales.
The construction equipment maker’s $600 million of 6.125 percent
bonds due December 2022 fell 2.52 cents on the dollar to 95.02
cents as of 12:54 p.m. in Hong Kong, heading for the biggest
one-day decline since Feb. 4, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hong Xiaoming, a Zoomlion vice president in charge of the
finance department, said in a mobile-phone text message that the
company will issue a clarification today.  The cost of insuring corporate and sovereign bonds in the
Asia-Pacific region against non-payment rose to the highest
levels in a month, according to traders of credit-default swaps.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  rose 2 basis points to 108.5 as of 8:49
a.m. in Hong Kong, Westpac Banking Corp. prices show. The
benchmark is also poised for its highest close since April 26,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  Australia Risk  The Markit iTraxx Australia index jumped 5 basis points,
the most since March 20, to 109 basis points as of 10:27 a.m. in
Sydney, according to National Australia Bank Ltd. prices. The
measure is on track for its highest close since April 26,
according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index increased 3.5 basis points to
88 as of 9:36 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Citigroup Inc. prices.
The gauge, which had advanced 11.2 basis points in the last two
trading days, is set for its highest close since April 24, CMA
data show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  