-- Bank Collateral Disclosure Will Improve Risk Appraisal, BIS Says
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-05-27T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/bank-collateral-disclosure-will-improve-risk-appraisal-bis-says.html
Banks should disclose the assets they
pledge as collateral for loans so that investors have a better
gauge of risk, according to a committee of the  Bank for
International Settlements .  Lenders could be asked to carry out stress tests to
evaluate levels of assets they have tied up, known as
encumbrance, under adverse conditions, the committee said in a
report. Banks that commit large amounts of collateral could be
asked to contribute more to deposit guarantee arrangements,
according to the report.  “Transparency about the extent to which bank assets are
encumbered or are available for encumbrance will allow unsecured
creditors to better assess the risks they face,” according to
the report.  After the financial crisis of 2008, banks’ funding models
changed, with collateralized borrowing gaining a bigger role.
Using assets such as  government bonds  as security reduces what’s
available to be sold to pay unsecured creditors should there be
a default and increases the cost of winding up the institution.  The change to collateralized funding, combined with
regulations forcing lenders to hold more high-quality, liquid
assets and stricter margin requirements for derivative trades,
raised concerns that there may be a shortage of such securities.
The report cites an estimate of about $4 trillion of additional
demand for high-quality assets.  Aerdt Houben of the Dutch Central Bank led the working
group that produced the report. The Basel, Switzerland-based BIS
was formed in 1930 to monitor financial markets and regulate
banks.  Banks and brokers face a clampdown on using assets they
hold for clients as collateral for their own trades as part of
European Union moves to bolster market stability and rein in
shadow banking.  The European Commission is weighing whether firms should
have to obtain formal consent from their clients before being
allowed to reuse assets to back other trades, according to a
document obtained by  Bloomberg News . The consent would be
enshrined in a “contractual agreement” between the parties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Shelley Smith 
at   ssmith118@bloomberg.net  