-- Banks Rebuked for Spin Tactics as Denmark Rejects Capital Pleas
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-05-27T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/banks-rebuked-for-spin-tactics-as-denmark-rejects-capital-pleas.html
Denmark ’s government lashed out at
the nation’s banks for deploying what it called spin tactics to
try to persuade policy makers to delay regulatory reform.  The nation’s financial industry, which says Denmark risks
stalling a recovery by moving ahead with too-big-to-fail rules
faster than the European Union, is misleading politicians and
businesses with its rhetoric, Economy Minister  Margrethe Vestager  said. She ruled out slowing down steps toward stricter
requirements for systemically important lenders and reiterated
her stance that banks won’t get tax breaks to help them through
the transition.  “It would be spin to say Denmark is a first mover on
financial regulation,” Vestager said yesterday in an interview
in Copenhagen. “We’ve been ahead with the bank packages saying
we don’t want taxpayers to pay the bill for the mess the banks
created -- that was the right thing to do and we did it in a way
that kept us in sync with European regulation.”  Denmark’s biggest banks are urging lawmakers to block a
March proposal by a government-appointed committee on how to
treat systemically important financial institutions. The Sifi
committee says the nation’s six biggest banks must hold as much
as 5 percent extra capital against their risk-weighted assets.
The banks say such requirements are only fair if matched by a
guarantee they’ll be exempt from Denmark’s bail-in rule.  `Strong Evidence'       The industry, led by  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  and Nykredit A/S, also
argues the proposal puts Denmark at the forefront of regulatory
reform at a time when businesses are struggling to gain access
to credit made more costly by stricter rules. The EU has yet to
unveil standards for its too-big-to-fail lenders.  “There is strong evidence that there is little cause for
hurrying,” Jesper Berg, head of regulatory affairs at Nykredit,
said in an interview. “I am somewhat puzzled by why we cannot
wait, see what more countries do, and have a more extensive
discussion.”  Banks warn the result of not waiting risks turning into a
replay of Denmark’s 2010 decision to pioneer bail-in legislation
in the EU, a move that left most of the industry shut out of
wholesale funding markets.  Lobby efforts have already won support from opposition
Liberal and  Conservative party  lawmakers, who have indicated
they want the proposed Sifi rules eased. The opposition Danish
 People’s Party  also wants laxer rules.  `Lending Freeze'  “ Capital requirements  already provide sufficient
protection to prevent taxpayers ever ending up paying to bail
out the banks,”  Brian Mikkelsen , business spokesman for the
Conservative Party, said in a May 22 interview. “More
regulation on these banks will only cause a lending freeze and
that’s the last thing we need.”  Denmark’s government cut its economic forecast yesterday as
Scandinavia’s weakest economy struggles to emerge from a housing
slump and regional banking crisis. Gross domestic product, which
contracted 0.7 percent in the final quarter of 2012, will expand
0.5 percent this year, versus an April prediction of 0.7
percent, Vestager’s ministry estimates.  The ruling three-party Social Democrat-led coalition,
headed by Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt, has pushed
corporate tax cuts through parliament in an effort to support a
recovery and create jobs. Those measures didn’t include banks.  “We don’t have any tax cuts in store for the financial
industry,” Vestager said. “What we’re very much aware of in a
European context is that national flexibility doesn’t limit the
inner market. We need competition on financial services across
 Europe  to cater to those who need financing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  