-- Fischer’s May Rate Cuts Signal Bank Joins Currency War
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-05-28T10:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/bank-of-israel-lowers-rate-again-after-surprise-mid-may-cut.html
The Bank of Israel cut borrowing
costs for a second time this month, narrowing the gap with rates
in major economies as it seeks to prevent a currency
appreciation from undermining growth.  Governor  Stanley Fischer  and his monetary committee lowered
rates yesterday by another 0.25 percentage point to 1.25
percent, the lowest in more than three years. The shekel, which
traded at a 21-month high in early May, lost as much as 0.9
percent against the dollar after the bank announced it wanted to
“weaken the forces” for its appreciation. Today, it
strengthened by 0.3 percent to trade at 3.7056 at 12:53 p.m.  “Fischer’s foremost objective is to keep the shekel no
stronger than 3.70 to the dollar,” said Shmuel Ben Arie, head
of shekel  wealth management  at Pioneer Private Wealth Planning
in Herzliya. “This is the minimum currency exchange rate that
is necessary for the Israeli economy to grow at least 3 percent
this year.”  Low  interest rates  in major economies and natural gas finds
in Israel have fueled the shekel’s rise, prompting Fischer and
his monetary committee to gradually lower the  benchmark rate 
from 3.25 percent in 2011 to help spur growth in Israel’s
export-driven economy. Exports make up about 40 percent of
Israel’s economy and are hurt by a stronger shekel.  Cuts Accelerate  The currency resisted efforts to weaken it. With just weeks
to go before he steps down after eight years, Fischer began
intervening in the  currency market  last month for the first time
in almost two years. He also accelerated the pace of rate cuts,
including a surprise reduction two weeks ago.  Central banks overseeing about a quarter of the world’s
gross domestic product have cut interest rates this month,
spanning the globe from the euro area and  Australia  to  Turkey 
and Sri Lanka.  “Fischer is joining the global currency war,” said Yaniv Hevron, head of macro-strategy at  Ramat Gan , Israel-based
Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd. “I don’t think we will
see another cut next month, but there will be other cuts in
coming months.”  Fischer, who during his two decades as an MIT professor
helped to educate the current heads of the  Federal Reserve  and
the  European Central Bank , has steered toward the U.S. model
during his tenure at the Israeli central bank. His dual focus on
employment and growth alongside  price stability  resembles the
Fed’s and has marked a shift at the Bank of Israel, where
previous governors placed an ECB-style emphasis on  inflation. (ISCPIYYN)   Trailblazing Reputation  Fischer earned a reputation as a trailblazer by being the
first central banker to cut rates in 2008 at the start of the
global economic crisis, and the first to raise rates the
following year in response to signs of financial recovery.  “ Bank of Israel  policy during Fischer’s term has been in
the vanguard in terms of timing, direction and the extent of
interest rate changes,” said Alex Zabezhinsky, chief economist
at Tel Aviv-based DS Securities & Investments Ltd.  The two reductions in a single month was the first for the
Israeli central bank since November 2008.  Ori Greenfeld, head of macroeconomic research at Psagot
Investment House Ltd. in  Tel Aviv , said the bank didn’t have
much to lose by paring the benchmark rate.  “Given the low inflation and slow growth, lowering the
interest rate doesn’t have any real costs,” Greenfeld said. It
may affect the housing market by fueling already high prices,
“but we already know this is of secondary importance to the
Bank of  Israel ,” he said.  Economic  growth , excluding new gas output, is forecast to
slow to 2.8 percent in 2013, from 3.2 percent last year, the
Bank of Israel said in March. Including first-time natural gas
production from a new field, it is forecast to grow 3.8 percent.  Inflation slowed to a six-year low of 0.8 percent in April,
adding to economic evidence that has spurred policy makers to
cut rates. Inflation expectations for the coming year are
slightly below the midpoint of the government’s 1 percent to 3
percent target, the bank said yesterday.  Ten of 23 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg forecast the
rate decision, while the remainder predicted no change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  