-- Bass to Koll Bearish on JGBs From Opposing Corners
-- B y   R o c k y   S w i f t
-- 2013-05-27T00:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/bass-to-koll-bearish-on-jgbs-from-opposing-corners.html
Hedge fund manager J. Kyle Bass and
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Jesper Koll, who hold opposing views on
Abenomics, both agree a selloff in Japanese government bonds is
not over.  Bass, whose Hayman Advisors LP made $500 million amid the
U.S. subprime crisis and is now betting on a Japanese fiscal
collapse, said the Bank of Japan will have to “dramatically”
increase bond-buying efforts to counteract selling by investors.
Koll, the head of equity research in Tokyo who forecasts a 17
percent jump in the  Topix stock index  by the end of the year,
said 10-year JGB rates will almost double to 1.5 percent as
people flock to higher-yielding assets.  Japanese bonds have led declines among major global markets
this quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Koll says
that’s to be expected as economic stimulus by Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe jump-starts the third-largest economy. Bass
characterizes the selloff as a warm-up for a more rapid exit of
funds as finances worsen in the world’s most-indebted nation.  “There’s nothing weird with long-term interest rates going
up,” Koll said in an interview with Bloomberg Television on May
24. “JGB yields go up with the economic recovery. It’s a
healthy sign.”  BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said last week the central
bank has put in place sufficient monetary easing and that he
wanted to minimize bond-market volatility. That’s after 10-year
JGB yields rose to 1 percent for the first time since April
2012, more than triple the all-time low reached last month, a
day after Kuroda announced unprecedented bond buying.  ‘Recovering Nicely’  Japanese shares plunged the most in two years on May 23,
trimming gains since November when Abe called for expanded
fiscal and monetary stimulus before elections that made him
prime minister. The Topix Index of shares slid 2.7 percent as of
9:30 a.m. in  Tokyo . It rose 0.5 percent on May 24 after a 6.9
percent slide the previous day.  Corporate earnings and the economy are “recovering
nicely,” according to Koll, who predicts the Topix will end
2013 at 1,400 from the close last week of 1,194.08. The increase
in JGB yields is “confirming that the credit cycle is expanding
and that the labor market is recovering.”  The benchmark  10-year JGB yield  slid two basis points to
0.825 percent today, the lowest in the world after Switzerland’s
rate and compared with a five-year average of 1.13 percent. The
rate will end the year at 0.72 percent according to a Bloomberg
survey of banks and securities companies, with the most recent
projections given the highest weighting.  BOJ ‘Overwhelmed’  The 2.2 percent drop in JGBs maturing in more than one year
so far this quarter is almost three times the 0.8 percent loss
in U.K. debt, the next biggest loser among 26 sovereign markets
tracked by the EFFAS indexes. The cost to protect Japanese bonds
for five years with credit-default swaps rose to 71.9 basis
points on May 24, the most since April 9, according to CMA
prices.  Kuroda said in Tokyo yesterday that  Japan  could cope with
an increase in bond yields, citing an April BOJ report
indicating rates could rise by between one and three percentage
points in an improving economy without causing instability.  Selling from JGB investors has “overwhelmed the BOJ’s
ability to purchase them,” according to Bass. “The BOJ is
going to have to dramatically expand its JGB purchasing
operation if it is going to be successful in holding back
rates.”  JGB Exodus  Abenomics may succeed in spurring nominal growth in Japan
this year, though the weak yen isn’t a panacea that can sustain
the economy and equity prices, Bass said in an interview with
CNBC last week.  Bass said in an interview with Bloomberg Television last
month that an increase in JGB yields following the BOJ’s April
pledge was a sign of stress in the market. He said in January
he’s buying bearish options that are “way out of the money” to
bet against Japan.  “The BOJ dominates asset markets for better or worse,”
 Bill Gross , co-chief investment officer at Pacific Investment
Management Co., said in a post on Twitter. “Watch JGBs, the yen
and the exodus from each.”  Sony, Toshiba  Elsewhere in domestic credit markets, Sony Corp. said in a
filing to Japan’s Ministry of Finance that it plans to sell 150
billion yen ($1.49 billion) of bonds targeting individual
investors. The notes are to be priced on June 7 and underwritten
by Daiwa Securities Group Inc., Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co., Mizuho Financial Group Inc., Nomura Holdings
Inc. and SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  Toshiba Corp. sold 90 billion yen in notes maturing in
three, five and seven years, according to a statement by Nomura
on May 24. The securities have coupons of 0.47 percent, 0.75
percent and 1.06 percent, according to the release.  Japan’s corporate bonds have handed investors a 0.37
percent loss this month, compared with a 1.45 percent decline
for the nation’s sovereign debt, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data. Company notes worldwide have lost 0.72
percent during the period, the data show.  Kuroda’s View  Kuroda and his board last week affirmed a policy set on
April 4 of doubling monthly JGB purchases to expand the monetary
base and fuel 2 percent inflation in two years to reflate the
economy. At a press briefing on May 22, he said that gains in
yields could be expected as the economy improved, after saying
previously that the central bank aimed to lower interest rates.  “I don’t think yields will continue to rise,” Nicholas Smith, Tokyo-based strategist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets,
wrote in an e-mail. “Kuroda is keen to rein in bond yields. I
wouldn’t be at all surprised if it is 20 basis points lower in a
month.” One basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  In minutes released today of the BOJ’s April 26 meeting, a
few board members attributed increasing bond volatility to
central bank debt purchases. A few members said it would be
difficult to reach the 2 percent inflation target by the end of
fiscal year 2015.  The BOJ supplied 2 trillion yen to the financial system on
May 23 as bond yields rose, its second such market-calming
infusion this month.  Price volatility  for JGBs surged 2.6
percentage points this year to 3.64 percent as of May 24 based
on a 60-day reading, the biggest advance among EFFAS indexes.  ‘Shocking’ Volatility  “The volatility we’ve seen is the market is shocking,”
said  Tetsuya Miura , the chief bond strategist at Tokyo-based
Mizuho Securities Co., one of the 24 primary dealers obliged to
bid at Japan’s debt auctions. “Unfortunately, Kuroda can’t
cherry-pick the best outcomes of his stimulus. As long as Kuroda
has a goal of achieving 2 percent inflation in two years, he
can’t extend the time horizon and that will add stress to the
JGB market. ”  Japan’s outstanding debt was 991.6 trillion yen at the end
of March, a ministry report showed this month. It’s projected to
reach 245 percent of gross domestic product this year, according
to an International Monetary Fund estimate, the highest ratio in
the world.  Japan’s economy expanded at an annualized 3.5 percent pace
last quarter, the fastest rate in a year, a government report
showed on May 16. Gross domestic product will probably grow 1.4
percent this year and 1.3 percent in 2014, according to median
estimates in Bloomberg News surveys.  Three Arrows  The first two “arrows” of so-called Abenomics, fiscal and
monetary stimulus, have propelled gains in Japanese shares and
weakness in the yen. Markets are still awaiting details on Abe’s
third arrow -- structural reforms to help businesses.  “If we fail to end deflation here and sketch out a growth
scenario, it’ll be the beginning of an end” for Japan, said
 Ayako Sera , a market strategist in Tokyo at Sumitomo Mitsui
Trust Bank Ltd. “The direction of bond yields is probably up,
and the only difference is its speed.”  Sera added that foreign investors “have tried bearish bets
on JGBs again and again and failed every time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rocky Swift in Tokyo at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  