-- Blatter Says FIFA Congress Must Enact Changes to Prevent Crimes
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-05-27T15:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/blatter-says-fifa-congress-must-enact-changes-to-prevent-crimes.html
FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  said
soccer’s governing body must enact changes to allow the sport to
continue the fight against corruption even as some former
advisers question the group’s reform plans.  The ruling body’s 209 members will vote on proposed changes
this week at FIFA’s annual meeting on the Indian Ocean island of
 Mauritius  this week. Blatter said the process follows an
“extensive consultation process” that started in 2011, the
year when the Zurich-based body was forced by stakeholders
including sponsors of its $5 billion  World Cup  to reform
following graft allegations.  “We have a democratic process in place, we follow it,”
Blatter said in an interview with FIFA.com. “Between 2011 and
2013, I made a lot of effort to take this reform process as far
as I could, but it is now up to the FIFA Congress to decide on
these measures.”  Former advisers have criticized FIFA, which Blatter has
headed since 1998, for not doing enough to crack down on
corruption.  Transparency International , an anti-corruption group, quit
as an adviser before the process formally started in 2011. Last
month, Alexandra Wrage, president of Trace International, a non-profit organization in  Canada  that provides anti-bribery
compliance advice to multinational companies, left the advisory
group created by Blatter to suggest reforms. She claimed the
work was the “least productive project” of her career.  In the FIFA interview, Blatter said members will vote on
“the majority of the recommendations” made by the Independent
Governance Committee, a group headed by Swiss academic  Mark
Pieth  and formed to make suggestions on reform.  Pay Disclosure  The advisers’ recommendations that won’t be voted on at the
Congress include disclosure of senior executive pay and adding
independent board members and independent integrity checks for
new members to FIFA’s decision-making executive committee. Fixed
age and term limits also aren’t being voted on. Instead, members
will be asked if they’re in favor of such limits.  “None of our items made it onto the agenda,” Wrage said
in an April 22 interview. “I don’t need a trip to Mauritius to
have them not vote on our issues.”  FIFA was criticized for the 2010 vote by its 24-member
executive on the hosts of the 2018 and 2022 World Cups, which
were won by Russia and Qatar. Two officials were suspended
before the poll after being caught up in a probe into vote
rigging by  London ’s Sunday Times.  A year later the only challenger to Blatter’s re-election
at the 2011 Congress pulled out a day before an investigation
began into claims he tried to bribe Caribbean voters with
$40,000 stuffed into envelopes.  In the past few months several more senior FIFA officials,
including the head of South American soccer, Nicolas Leoz, and
FIFA’s honorary president  Joao Havelange , have resigned or face
investigation over graft claims stretching back several years.
Blatter said the action on the cases is a sign that its new
ethics structure, voted through at last year’s Congress, is
functioning well.  “That shows the process towards more integrity is on track
and nothing will stop it,” Blatter said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  