-- Brazil Real Trades at 2013 Low as Analysts Cut Growth Outlook
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-05-27T21:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/brazil-swap-rates-rise-on-faster-inflation-forecast-real-slips.html
Brazil ’s real fell to its lowest
level this year as analysts reduced forecasts for growth and the
central bank refrained from intervening to stem the currency’s
depreciation.  The real declined 0.3 percent to 2.0571 per  U.S. dollar  in
Sao Paulo, its weakest level on a closing basis since Dec. 24.
The real tumbled 0.8 percent last week in its fourth weekly
decline, the longest losing streak since October. Swap rates on
the contract due in July increased one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 7.57 percent. U.S. markets were closed
today for a holiday.  The real has traded in a range of 1.94 and 2.05 per dollar
this year as Brazil’s policy makers fluctuated between selling
currency swaps to prevent it from falling too much and offering
reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by reining in gains.  “The market continues to test the 2.05 level,”  Andre Perfeito , the chief economist at Gradual Investimentos in Sao
Paulo, said in a phone interview. “We’ve seen more volatility
abroad and a worsening of risk perception towards Brazil.”  The nation’s $2.5 trillion economy will expand 2.93 percent
this year, down from last week’s median forecast of 2.98
percent, according to the central bank’s survey of about 100
analysts published today. That compares with the central bank’s
forecast of 3.1 percent growth.  Some swap rates climbed as analysts raised their inflation
forecasts, bolstering speculation that the central bank will
step up the pace of borrowing-cost increases at its policy
meeting this week.  Inflation Outlook  Consumer prices will rise at a 5.81 percent annual pace at
year-end, faster than last week’s median forecast of 5.80
percent, according to the survey.  Policy makers raised the target lending rate last month by
a quarter-percentage point to 7.50 percent to curb inflation.
The board’s next rate-setting meeting is May 28-29.  “The market is still divided between whether the central
bank will hike by 25 or 50 basis points,” Fabio Espinosa, a
derivatives trader at Fator Corretora in  Sao Paulo , said in a
phone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  