-- Brazilian Bank May Provide $1 Billion to Ethiopian Rail
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2013-05-27T20:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/brazil-development-bank-gives-1-billion-to-ethiopia-rail.html
Ethiopia is in talks to receive $1
billion in funding from the Brazilian Development Bank to build
a section of a railway that will be extended to connect to
neighboring South Sudan, a Foreign Ministry official said.  Andrade Gutierrez Participacoes SA of  Brazil  will build the
link running from the capital, Addis Ababa, to Jimma about 439
kilometers (273 miles) to the southwest, Taye Atskeselassie,
director general for the Americas at the ministry, said in an
interview on May 24.  The bank “is willing to finance the project,” he said
after Ethiopian Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn met
Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff. “The technical side has
been finalized, it’s only the financing part; it’s a matter of
the details.” Construction will begin “soon,” he said.  Ethiopia,  Africa ’s second-most populous nation, needs
funding to build 4,744 kilometers of electrified railway lines
at a cost of 110.8 billion birr ($5.9 billion) as it seeks to
develop a cheaper alternative to moving goods by road. Economic
growth may slow to 6.5 percent this year and next, compared with
average growth of 8.7 percent over the past five years,
according to the International Monetary Fund.  Brazil’s development bank, known as BNDES, has not yet
received a request to fund the railway, the bank’s press office
said in an e-mail.  The Export-Import Bank of China signed a loan agreement
worth nearly $3 billion for a railway from Addis Ababa to the
port of Doraleh in neighboring  Djibouti , the state-owned
Ethiopian Radio and Television Agency reported last week.  Turkish Funding  The government of  Turkey  is funding a separate route, while
Ethiopia is negotiating with Russia and  India  to finance and
build other rail projects, Ethiopian Railways Corp. said on
April 26.  Officials from  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR3) , Brazil’s state-run
oil company, attended last week’s meeting, Taye said. “They are
very much interested in doing business as well here, but no
specific issues have been raised at this time,” he said.  Hailemariam and Rousseff signed cooperation agreements on
air transport, science and technology, education and
agriculture, Ethiopia’s State Minister of Foreign Affairs
Berhane Gebrekristos said.  “This is a turning point in Ethiopian-Brazilian
relations,” Berhane said.  Ethiopia operates a state-led economy and is prioritizing
investment in infrastructure as it seeks to transform one of the
world’s least-developed countries into a middle-income nation by
2025, according to the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  