-- Brazil Stadium Roof Tears Weeks Before World Cup Warmup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-05-27T18:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/brazil-stadium-hit-with-roof-tears-weeks-before-world-cup-test.html
A second stadium in  Brazil  being used
for this month’s Confederations Cup, a warm-up event for
soccer’s World Cup next year, has structural problems with its
roof.  Images broadcast on television channel Record showed part
of the roof’s covering torn as workers bailed out rainwater that
had settled on the structure of the Arena Fonte Nova, one of the
new stadiums built for the World Cup. Italy will train at Rio de
Janeiro Joao Havelange stadium during the eight-team
Confederations Cup. That stadium, built in 2007, is indefinitely
shut to the public after signs of wear were found on its roof.  Local Organizing committee spokesman Saint-Clair Milesi
wasn’t immediately able to comment.  “The Local Organising Committee and FIFA are aware of the
partial rupture of one of the 36 membrane panels of the roof of
the Arena Fonte Nova,” FIFA said today in a statement. “The
repairs are already underway. The causes for this rupture are
currently being evaluated including a detailed assessment of all
panels. The LOC is monitoring the repairs through their on-site
experts.”  Brazil’s stadium preparation program for the month-long
 World Cup  has been hurt by delays and cost overruns on several
projects. The Marcana stadium in Rio de Janeiro, which will host
the final game of the tournament, was opened several months
after a second-deadline from FIFA in December because the
stadium’s roof needed to be rebuilt.  Only two of the six stadiums being used at the
Confederations Cup met FIFA’s deadline, meaning the governing
body had to backtrack on a demand that each venue host three
test events before the tournament begins on June 15.  On June 2 Brazil hosts  England  in an exhibition game at the
Maracana, the first time the stadium has operated at full
capacity since its three-year refurbishment, which cost more
than $500 million.  While workers were attempting to fix the problem with the
roof, Brazil’s president Dilma Rousseff said in a weekly radio
address that she was certain the country “will shine on and off
the field.”  The 56,000-seat Fonte Nova stadium was opened in April and
will host three games during the Confederations Cup, including
Brazil’s match with Italy on June 22.  For Related News and Information:
Calls to Rename Rio’s Olympic Stadium Following Bribe Scandal
(MM6MFU1A1I4H)
Brazil World Cup Final Venue Opens After Delays, Cost Overruns
(MLXQ396S9728)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  