-- Bulgaria Looks to End Impasse With Socialist-Led Cabinet
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-05-28T14:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/bulgaria-looks-to-end-impasse-with-socialist-led-cabinet.html
Bulgarian lawmakers will seek to end
months of political uncertainty with a vote on a minority
Cabinet led by the Socialist Party, the previous government’s
main opposition, which placed second in this month’s election.  President Rosen Plevneliev signed a decree asking
Parliament to vote on the Socialists’ nominee for prime
minister, Plamen Oresharski, and his proposed Cabinet,
Plevneliev told reporters in Sofia today.  Ex-Finance Minister Oresharski will need a majority of the
240-member assembly to endorse his list of ministers tomorrow.
With his party and its allies controlling 120 seats, he will
need some lawmakers to stay away from the vote to take power
given that former Prime Minister Boyko Borissov’s Gerb party has
ruled out a coalition with the Socialists.  The European Union’s poorest nation, is struggling to
emerge from political turmoil that started with anti-austerity
protests that forced out Borissov’s government in February and
led to a snap election May 12.  Bulgaria ’s new leader will need
to balance between budget cuts to keep the country’s finances
stable and demands for higher wages and lower energy costs.  “The government’s priorities, if we win approval, will be
close cooperation with EU institutions and attracting foreign
investment,” Oresharski told reporters in Sofia today “The
Cabinet is composed of experts, specialists in their field, who
will have to do a lot of hard work in the next few years.”  Yields Rise  The yield on Bulgaria’s euro-denominated bonds maturing in
2017 fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage points, to 1.80
percent at 5:35 p.m. in Sofia today. The cost of insuring the
country’s debt against non-payment for five years using credit-default swaps rose three basis points to 109.33.  Oresharski’s Socialists got a chance at forming a
government after former Borissov’s Gerb party won 97 seats in
the election, falling short of the 121 votes needed for an
outright majority, and failed to find allies.  Oresharski yesterday got the Socialist party’s backing for
his proposed list of ministers, which included his nominee for
the finance minister job, Petar Chobanov, a former chairman of
the country’s financial regulator.  The Socialists, with 84 seats, agreed to form a coalition
with the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, a party that
represents the country’s ethnic Turkish minority and has 36
deputies. Oresharski’s 15-member Cabinet list includes three
Movement nominees.  Financial Stability  “This government seeks to ensure succession at least in
regard to financial stability, given the background of the prime
minister and finance minister,” Daniel Smilov, an analyst at
the Center for Liberal Strategies in Sofia, said today. “Its
social benefits program seems to be written in haste and is
unlikely to show tangible improvements.”  Attack, a radical nationalist party with 23 lawmakers, said
it supports no one. It may help get a government approved by not
registering for tomorrow’s session, bringing the number of votes
required for a majority to 110, the Sofia-based newspaper Pressa
reported yesterday, citing unidentified officials.  Borissov on May 23 told reporters in Sofia that the
coalition is “an unprincipled alliance of parties with
irreconcilable differences.”  He may also decide not to register Gerb deputies, which
would drop the number of lawmakers present at tomorrow’s meeting
to below 120, rendering it invalid, according to Pressa. In that
case, Attack may register one deputy to allow the proceedings to
go ahead, it said.  Cabinet Nominees  Oresharski’s proposed Cabinet also includes Zinaida
Zlatanova, the former chief of the EU delegation in Sofia, as
deputy prime minister in charge of justice, internal order and
EU funds, as well as Kristian Vigenin, a European Parliament
member, as foreign minister.  Oresharski said he replaced Kalin Tiholov, a candidate to
become minister of investment projects, with Ivan Danov, shortly
before meeting the president today.  The new government’s priories will be reviewing potential
energy-price cuts and starting a health-care overhaul,
Oresharski said yesterday. His plan also includes reimbursing
about 350 million lev ($231 million) of value-added taxes to
companies and repaying about 100 million lev for completed
public orders to businesses, Oresharski said.  Increasing social benefits for the poor and families with
young children, which will require a total of 7 million lev, is
also part of the plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  