-- Cadmium Scare Boosts Appeal of North China Rice, Thai Imports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-27T03:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/cadmium-scare-boosts-appeal-of-north-china-rice-thai-imports.html
Consumers in  China  are turning to
well-known brands from northern provinces and Thai imports after
high traces of cadmium were found in some long-grain rice in the
country’s south, a commodities analyst said.  Demand for Thai rice, which can cost as much as nine times
local grain, is rising, said Wang Shutong, an analyst at
commodity information provider Sublime China Information Co. The
price of rice from northeast Heilongjiang province, which
produces the short-grain japonica variety, has risen as much as
2.6 percent this month, according to data tracked by SCI.  Shares (600598)  of Heilongjiang Agriculture Co., China’s biggest
listed producer of short-grain rice, surged 19 percent in
Shanghai trading this month, outpacing the Shanghai Composite
Index’s 5.5 percent gain, as reports on contamination increased.
China’s President Xi Jinping last week signaled a tolerance for
slower economic expansion to avoid environmental degradation.  “This incident highlights the frightening conditions of
China’s soil and water quality,” Wang said by phone on May 23
from Zibo city in Shandong province. “The immediate reaction of
consumers is to buy rice from places relatively free of
pollution, and that points to imports and the country’s far-north.”  Tight import quotas mean that Thailand and other exporting
nations can’t accelerate shipments to take advantage of rising
demand, Wang said.  Thailand  is the biggest exporter of premium-quality rice to China while Vietnam and Pakistan ship lower-grade grain that is often blended with domestic rice, he said.  Imports from Thailand last year were 175,351 tons, down
from 325,620 tons in 2011, according to China’s customs data.  Toxic Metal  The Nanfang Daily first reported in February that rice from
Hunan sold in southern Guangdong province contained excessive
levels of toxic metal and the Guangzhou Food and Drug
Administration reignited concerns with reports on its website on
May 16.  “My friends are buying organic products they trust through
their own channels, and some are even going to Hong Kong to buy
rice,” said Xiong Si, a magazine editor and a consumer from
Guangzhou. “There is little trust in domestic food.”  Sales from mills in Hunan province, the first reported
origin of the tainted rice, are stalling and 70 percent of
processing plants have halted operations, according to SCI.
Traces of cadmium above government limits have also been found
in rice from neighboring Jiangxi province and Guangdong, China
News Service reported May 21, citing authorities in Foshan city.  Rough rice traded in  Chicago  rose 1 percent to $15.715 per
100 pounds on May 24, taking gains for the year to 3.6 percent.  Rice futures on the Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange, which
trades the same variety of the grain grown in Hunan, have fallen
2.9 percent this year and the September contract traded 2,620
 yuan  ($428) per ton at 10:15 a.m.  Heilongjiang Agriculture shares were not trading today
ahead of “significant events” involving the company and will
resume within five working days, according to a company filing
to the Shanghai Stock Exchange.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  