-- Can House Resist Urge to Kill Immigration Bill?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-27T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/can-house-resist-urge-to-kill-immigration-bill-.html
One more hurdle is cleared. The U.S.
Senate Judiciary Committee gave its approval last week to
comprehensive immigration legislation. Happy news, though the
risk is still high that compromise will be supplanted by
ideological conviction.  To get the bill through the Senate committee with
Republican support, Democrats had to abandon an amendment that
would have given gay and lesbian spouses of U.S. citizens the
same immigration prospects as heterosexual spouses. Thus, basic
equity was sacrificed for the presumably greater good of passing
legislation to rationalize immigration laws and free some 11
million undocumented immigrants in the U.S. from legal limbo. A
Senate floor vote on the bill is expected in late June.  Meanwhile, in the House, Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte complained that the Senate bill wouldn’t secure the
border. We have previously  written  on the impossibility of
attaining anything close to perfect security in a nation with
7,000 miles of land boundary and 95,000 miles of shoreline. Yet
for some conservatives the notion has become close to an
obsession, all but impervious to facts on the ground.  The U.S. spends roughly $18 billion a year on immigration
control, more than on all other federal law enforcement efforts
combined. Since 2004, the number of Border Patrol agents has
doubled, to more than 21,000. The use of fencing, drones and
other measures has drastically expanded. And there is evidence
that it’s having an effect: In 2012, the Border Patrol recorded
364,768 apprehensions, down 50 percent from four years earlier.
Meanwhile, the Senate legislation promises as much as $6.5
billion more for border technology, fencing (costing  at least  $4
million per mile) and additional agents. The U.S. border with
 Mexico  isn’t neglected.  In a similar vein, the House risks transforming immigration
reform into one more theater in its war against the Affordable
Care Act. Many Republicans  refuse  to support legislation that
doesn’t explicitly deny public funds to immigrants with
provisional legal status. But in the event such people need
emergency-room care, they will have to pay out of pocket. If
they can’t afford the typically exorbitant bills, their legal
status could be jeopardized.  A House working group on immigration reached a tentative
deal on the problem last week, with specific language still to
come. But the temptation to use health care as a means of
scuttling an immigration bill may prove too powerful for others
to resist. Similarly, a fight over the E-Verify employment
verification system is also simmering.  There’s one very good reason that immigration reform hasn’t
collapsed: Democrats, including some who balked at the last
immigration reform effort, and mainstream Republicans recognize
that their self-interest is aligned with the national interest
in passing a law. Even so, there is only so much ideological
baggage a bill can carry. If House Republicans insist on
creating legislation far to the right of the Senate bill -- with
onerous border enforcement “triggers” and a longer, more arduous
path to citizenship than the 13-year Senate plan -- the hard-won
compromise will erode.  Preventing that unhappy future falls to Speaker John Boehner. In a Washington Post-ABC News  poll  released last week,
large majorities of Democrats and independent voters supported a
path to legal status for undocumented immigrants; only 42
percent of Republican voters did. The attitudes of Republican
voters will no doubt be reflected by many Republican
legislators, including some vocal opponents on the House
Judiciary Committee.  Boehner’s task is to facilitate debate while keeping the
legislation from sinking under the ideological bugaboos that
have rendered the House dysfunctional. Immigration reform may be
the only meaningful legislation this House is capable of
producing. If it shatters, the nation will suffer, and the
damage to what remains of public faith in Congress will be
significant. The damage to the Republican Party probably will be
far worse.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 