-- Can Tumblr’s Boy Wonder Grow Up?
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2013-05-27T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/can-tumblr-s-boy-wonder-grow-up-.html
“ Steve Jobs  and Willy Wonka to me
were just like these brilliant people who had these magical
factories where every six months they’d come out with this huge
show,” David Karp told me a few years ago. “I thought that was
like the coolest thing ever. That’s what I wanted to do.”  And now, it seems, he just might have done it.  Karp, of course, is the 26-year-old autodidact who founded
Tumblr, the social-networking blog site that  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  just
scooped up for $1.1 billion. Karp stands to make $250 million
from Yahoo Chief Executive Officer  Marissa Mayer ’s effort to
make her search site relevant again.  Karp isn’t your typical Internet entrepreneur. He grew up
in  New York , on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, and attended
the Calhoun School, where his mother was a science teacher. His
father, an award-winning composer, wrote the musical themes for
“Dateline NBC” and TV broadcasts of New York Yankees games.
His maternal grandfather, Ken Ackerman, was a radio broadcaster,
known as the “Voice of  San Francisco .”  At Calhoun, Karp drove teachers nuts by trying to hack into
the school’s computer system. After leaving, he spent a year at
the Bronx High School of Science, where he studied Japanese. But
he fell in with the wrong crowd and dropped out -- besting
technology giants like Jobs,  Bill Gates ,  Larry Ellison  and  Mark Zuckerberg , who all timidly waited until after entering college
to abandon their formal education.  Apple Repair  By then, Karp had read a book about HTML software and had
helped small businesses along Amsterdam and Columbus avenues
build websites. As a 14-year-old, he worked at Tekserve, the
huge, hipster-laden Apple-repair specialist on West 23rd Street.  Soon enough, Karp was introduced to Fred Seibert, a former
jazz-music record executive who became one of the creative
founders of MTV, Nickelodeon and  Comedy Central . At the time,
Seibert was holed up at Frederator Studios, on a huge floor at
1440 Broadway, in the middle of Times Square, with a bunch of
young programmers and walls lined with skateboards. “I was so
nervous and not sure what to say,” Karp said about meeting
Seibert. But he remembered being very impressed by Seibert,
dressed all in white, hanging out in this cool  office space  with
a bunch of tech geeks, trying to change the world.  He learned so much from Seibert and those around him that
Karp’s parents allowed him to keep working for Frederator while
he was home-schooled. He took Japanese classes at the  Asia
Society  and learned math and English from a tutor. Eventually,
he started working for UrbanBaby, the “somewhat raunchy forum
for progressive New York moms,” he said. He worked remotely
from home, logging into the UrbanBaby servers and cashing his
paychecks. He was nervous that the company’s founder, John
Maloney, would fire him if he found out he was only 16.  A couple of years later, after his first love broke his
heart, Karp fled on a whim to  Japan . He gave his parents two
weeks’ notice. He gave none to Seibert, for whom he was still
doing consulting projects, or Maloney. But, through the wonders
of technology -- a Vonage account and remote access -- he kept
doing his work from  Tokyo  for his bosses in New York. They had
no idea he had left, until one day Seibert asked Karp to come by
the office to fix something. Karp said that would be hard,
because he was on the other side of the world.  “I see this young guy who has absorbed everything that’s
going on in the world in real time and has figured out a way to
live his life differently than anyone else I knew,” Seibert
told me. “He’s the chief engineer at this company, UrbanBaby,
which at the time was smoking, doing unbelievably. He’s fixing
my problems from 6,000 miles away. He’s working on New York time
in Tokyo. He was really a different grade of person.”  First Post  After CNET Networks Inc. bought UrbanBaby in May 2006 and
Karp had returned to New York, he took his modest payout and
started Davidville, a Web-consulting business, at a single desk
in Frederator’s new Park Avenue South offices. He then hired his
first employee, Marco Arment, who had just come from an
interview with Bloomberg LP. In April 2005, a simple new
microblogging phenomenon emerged. Known as “tumbleblogs,” they
contained their authors’ random musings, links to other sites
and photography.  When not working for clients, Karp fiddled around with
creating tools to make it easier for the tumblebloggers to do
their thing. He wrote the vast majority of the front-end code
for what became Tumblr. He put up his first post on the new site
-- “Nobody shoots anyone in the face unless you’re a hit man or
a video gamer,” a quotation from Jack Thompson, an anti-video-game activist -- on June 5, 2006. On Nov. 1, 2007, Tumblr closed
its first round of venture-capital financing, and later hired
UrbanBaby’s Maloney as president. The rest is history.  But it hasn’t all been charmed. He and Arment had a
professional disagreement in 2010. (Arment then founded
InstaPaper, and wrote, on Tumblr, that although he won’t make
“yacht and helicopter money” from his Tumblr  stock options , he
will now have a “strong safety net” to do what he wants.)
There was the Great Tumblr Blackout of 2010, when the computer
system crashed and Karp was forced to turn to quasi-rival
Twitter to communicate with his highly devoted -- but now highly
peeved -- users. Last month, Karp abruptly closed down
Storyboard, its in-house content business, and dismissed the
staff. Other top executives have left Tumblr as well during the
past year or so, including Maloney.  There is no doubt that Karp, with his dorky good-looks and
adorable girlfriend, Rachel Eakley, cuts quite the stylish
figure zooming on his late-model Vespa between his home in
trendy  Brooklyn  and his office in fashionable east Chelsea. He
has recently appeared on the cover of Forbes and the front page
of the New York Times.  Yahoo’s Gamble  It’s a fairy tale, for sure. But the happy ending is in
considerable doubt. Karp and Mayer, who is likely quite anxious
to figure out how to justify spending $1.1 billion for a company
with modest revenue and little or no profit, will be desperate
to find ways to make money from Tumblr’s 300 million addicted
users. Despite Mayer’s promise in the Yahoo’s news release “not
to screw it up,” the facts are that Yahoo has a lousy record
with its acquisitions. Then there are the facts that most
mergers and acquisitions fail, and most founders get fed up with
the new corporate rules and move on.  Maybe David Karp will be different. But it was his
iconoclasm and a single-minded devotion to Tumblr that got him
this far. We’ll soon see whether he can handle corporate life
for the next four years, the term of his new contract, and
having a real boss. It’s a far bigger leap of faith, in many
ways, than dropping out of high school at 14.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 