-- Canadian Dollar Drops Versus Peers Before Carney’s Final Meeting
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-05-27T21:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/canadian-dollar-drops-versus-peers-before-carney-s-final-meeting.html
The Canadian dollar weakened against
a majority of its most-traded counterparts as crude oil declined
before Mark Carney’s last policy meeting as Bank of  Canada 
governor.  The Canadian dollar fell the most against the Mexican peso
and the Korean won. Carney is expected to make few changes to
monetary policy at the May 29 meeting; all 22 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg predict the outgoing governor to leave the
benchmark interest rate at one percent before his successor
Stephen Poloz takes over June 3.  Economists in a separate survey project a May 31 report
will show Canada’s gross domestic product quickened in the first
quarter. Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, slid as
much as 1 percent today in New York, extending a 2 percent drop
last week as the Canadian dollar fell to the lowest in almost a
year.  “Generally speaking it has been trading with a weaker bias
so that’s something that may be sustained throughout the year,”
said Mazen Issa, Canada macro strategist at Toronto-Dominion
Bank’s TD Securities unit, by phone from Toronto. “With respect
to the Bank of Canada, it’s the final hurrah for Mark Carney.
The general sense going into that meeting at least from the
market’s perspective is that you’re really not going to expect
much from that meeting.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is nicknamed, dropped
against 12 of 16 majors. It fell 0.2 percent to C$1.0341 per
U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. The currency touched C$1.0394
May 23, the lowest since June. One loonie buys 96.70 U.S. cents.  GDP Forecasts  Canada’s benchmark 10-year  government bonds  fell, pushing
yields higher by three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
to 1.98 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023
fell 27 cents to C$95.70.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was closed for a U.S.
holiday.  Canada’s economy expanded 2.3 percent in the first quarter,
compared to 0.6 percent the previous period, Statistics Canada
will probably say at the end of this week, according to the
median  forecast  of 23 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Bank of Canada lowered its first quarter  growth
projection  to 1.5 percent from 2.3 percent in its April monetary
policy report as Carney told reporters, “considerable monetary
policy stimulus currently in place will likely remain
appropriate for a period of time.”  ‘Stronger Print’  “This market is positioned fairly well short of the
Canadian dollar,” said Matthew Perrier, director of foreign
exchange at Bank of Montreal, by phone from Toronto. “I don’t
think we’ll see much change out of the Bank of Canada, so the
real surprise would be a stronger print out of Friday’s GDP.”  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian dollar
versus its U.S. counterpart rose from its lowest point in a
week. The three-month 25-delta rate reached as high as 1.58
percentage points today, from 1.50 percent on May 24.  The Canadian dollar has risen 0.5 percent this year against
nine developed nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Indexes. The Australian dollar has fallen
3.3 percent while the U.S. dollar has gained the most at 5.2
percent.  “Wait for a little more clarity,” from the Bank of
Canada, said Don Mikolich, executive director of foreign
exchange sales at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, by phone
from Toronto. “People will be waiting for what Poloz will say
when he gets in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  