-- Chef Switches to Curry, Whisky From Hot Dogs, Champagne
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-05-27T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/chef-switches-to-curry-whisky-from-hot-dogs-champagne.html
The chef and restaurateur who helped
Londoners discover their inner yearning for hot dogs with
Champagne at Bubbledogs now plans to treat Mayfair diners to the
whiskies and spicy foods served at gymkhana clubs in  India .  “They were sports and social clubs set up by the British
Raj in India,” said Karam Sethi, 28, who holds a Michelin star
at Trishna and backed the opening of Bubbledogs last year.
“They were grand clubs, a place for the elite to socialize.”  The menu will be based on traditional Indian fare from the
tandoor oven and sigri charcoal grill, using British
ingredients. The bar will feature spirits, tonics and mixers
from India, as well as whiskies and old Indian punch recipes.  Chef Atul Kochhar tried something similar at Colony Bar &
Grill, which he opened with the restaurateur Carlo Spetale in
2010. Kochhar quit a year later. Sethi has been more fortunate
with his recent venture: There are long lines of people waiting
to sample Bubbledogs.  Sethi said in an interview he is expecting the average
spending at Gymkhana to be about 50 pounds ($75). The restaurant
is scheduled to open on Albemarle Street in early July or late
August. Sethi’s sister Sunaina, who is the sommelier at Trishna,
opened the Pearson Room restaurant in Canary Wharf in May. Their
parents are from Delhi and moved to  London  in the 1970s.  The decor at Gymkhana will reflect the grandeur of the
colonial gentlemen’s clubs, with an Old East India Punch Tavern
on the ground floor, with private booth seating for groups, and
a further bar in the basement vaults, Sethi said.  “I am trying to take the elements of the gymkhana club,
not to replicate them but as the inspiration,” he said. “The
bar has a very convivial atmosphere, a lot of beers on tap, a
really good whisky selection.”  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on European art,
 Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris culture and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S.
theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines at  rvines@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 