-- Chevron Lends Venezuelan Oil Venture $2 Billion for Output Boost
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2013-05-27T21:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/chevron-lends-venezuelan-oil-venture-2-billion-for-output-boost.html
Petroleos de Venezuela SA , the
country’s state-owned oil producer, signed a $2 billion
financing agreement with San Ramon, California-based  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  to increase output at their Petroboscan oil joint venture.  The loan’s interest rate is the London Interbank Offered
Rate plus 4.5 percentage points, Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez 
told reporters in Caracas today. The money will be handled
directly by Petroboscan and will help boost daily output to
127,000 barrels from 107,000 barrels, he said.  “The loan has a very low rate because it’s a corporate
loan from Chevron to its joint venture and is tied to increased
production,” said Ramirez, who signed the credit along with  Ali Moshiri , Chevron’s head of  Latin America , Middle East and
Africa. “That way we obligate ourselves and our partner to
focus on increasing production.”  Venezuela, which channels oil earnings into social programs
and regional fuel subsidies, is seeking financing from foreign
partners to tap more of the world’s largest oil reserves. The
state-owned producer reached an agreement with China on terms of
a $4 billion loan on May 15 for the Sinovensa joint venture with
China National Petroleum Corp. Ramirez said today he’ll sign the
financing agreement in Beijing this week.  The minister said May 3 that PDVSA would invest $15.4
billion in exploration and production this year and that its
partners must meet production targets or risk having projects
disbanded. Ramirez said last month that PDVSA would ask its
partners to finance at least $8 billion of a $25 billion
investment program.  Venezuela is producing 830,000 barrels a day in western  oil
fields , Ramirez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  