-- China Industrial-Profit Growth Accelerates as Sales Increase
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-27T04:44:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/china-s-industrial-profit-growth-accelerates-as-sales-increase.html
Gains in  Chinese industrial
companies’ profits  quickened in April on increases in the power-production and automotive sectors, aiding growth after a survey
showed a contraction in manufacturing this month.  Net income rose 9.3 percent from a year earlier to 437
billion  yuan  ($71.3 billion), after a 5.3 percent increase in
March, the  National Bureau of Statistics  said today in Beijing.
Profit in the first four months increased 11.4 percent to 1.61
trillion yuan, the agency said, down from a 12.1 percent pace in
the first quarter.  Stronger profit growth may spur investment in factories and
equipment, helping sustain growth in the world’s second-biggest
economy as the government avoids adding stimulus. Stocks in
 China  have dropped 6 percent since this year’s high on Feb. 6
and a survey last week showed manufacturing is contracting this
month for the first time since October.  “The data point to a stabilization of industrial profit
growth at a lower level,” consistent with recent momentum in
economic expansion, said Ding Shuang, senior China economist at
Citigroup Inc. in  Hong Kong . “If growth decelerates toward 7
percent and unemployment pressure mounts, more policy easing is
likely,” including an interest-rate cut, Ding said.  Industrial companies’ revenue rose 11.9 percent in the
first four months to 30.4 trillion yuan, according to the
statistics bureau statement, after a previously reported 11.9
percent increase in the first quarter. No figure was given for
April sales.  Electricity Profits  The agency said three industries drove profit growth in the
latest report: electric and thermal power production, autos and
computers, telecommunications and other electronic equipment.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index was little changed
at the 11:30 a.m. local-time break.  Japan ’s Komatsu Ltd., the world’s second-biggest maker of
construction and mining equipment after Caterpillar Inc. of the
U.S., showed an 8 percent increase in April demand for
excavators in China, the first gain in two years, according to
Bloomberg Industries.  Premier  Li Keqiang  said May 13 that “to achieve this
year’s targets, the room to rely on stimulus policies or
government direct investment is not big -- we must rely on
market mechanisms.”  Investors soured on China’s outlook in a Bloomberg global
poll this month, with the share of respondents who see the
economy deteriorating doubling from January.  China’s growth unexpectedly slowed to 7.7 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier. The preliminary reading of a
 Purchasing Managers ’ Index released last week by HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics showed manufacturing is contracting in
May for the first time in seven months.  The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey this month
was for second-quarter growth of 7.8 percent, down from 8
percent in April’s poll.  --Zhou Xin, with assistance from Liu Li in Beijing. Editors:
Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  