-- China to Cut Swiss Watch Import Duties in Free Trade Pact
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-28T09:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/china-to-cut-import-duties-on-swiss-watches-in-free-trade-pact.html
China  agreed to cut import tariffs on
Swiss watches by 60 percent in 10 years as the two nations seek
to expand trade, a move that may boost sales by retailers such
as Hong Kong-based  Hengdeli Holdings Ltd. (3389)   The reductions will take effect after the countries sign a
free-trade agreement, which may take place in July, Assistant
Commerce Minister Yu Jianhua said in a briefing in Beijing
yesterday. The duties will be cut by 18 percent in the first
year and around 5 percent in each of the following nine years,
according to a transcript posted on the ministry’s website.  Hengdeli rose 7.2 percent to HK$2.24, the highest close in
almost three months, in Hong Kong trading today. Chinese imports
of Swiss-made watches tumbled 24 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier as President Xi Jinping’s campaign against
corruption damps demand for luxury gifts and economic expansion
cools.  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA last month reported a decline in
watch sales due to China, while  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton
SA (MC) , the world’s largest maker of  luxury goods , said Chinese
retailers have been purchasing fewer watches than expected.  “We think this will have marginally positive implications
for demand” and margins, a group of Citigroup Inc. analysts led
by  Thomas Chauvet  wrote in a report today. Still, “China’s new
President Xi Jinping’s tough stance on corruption practices and
extravagant spending are likely to limit the recovery of the
illegitimate component of luxury demand this year.”  Swatch, Richemont  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the biggest maker of Swiss timepieces,
rose as much as 2 percent and traded 0.2 percent higher at 580
francs at 11:28 a.m. in Zurich.  Richemont (CFR) , whose brands include
 Vacheron Constantin  and Cartier, gained as much as 2.3 percent.  Chinese consumers often buy watches abroad in Hong Kong or
European countries where taxes are lower. Last year, Hong Kong
imported 4.4 billion francs ($4.5 billion) worth of timepieces
while China imported 1.6 billion francs.  “Europe,  Hong Kong  and Macau are likely to remain Chinese
consumers’ preferred places of purchase for Swiss watches in our
view due to lower retail prices, even after the cut in
Chinese duties,” Chauvet wrote.  China levies import tariffs mostly between 15 percent and
20 percent on watches, Yu said, according to a transcript of the
briefing posted on the Commerce Ministry’s website.  “The trend would be that prices will drop to some extent,
but we can’t tell now by how much,” Yu said of Swiss watch
prices, citing factors such as other duties including value-added and consumption taxes that will remain unchanged.  Watch Slowdown  Swiss watchmakers are bracing for a slowdown this year as
Kepler Cheuvreux forecasts the industry’s exports may increase 5
percent, which would be the worst performance since a 22 percent
decline in 2009.  Swiss watch exports rose 5.7 percent in April, the
Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry said today. Shipments to
China dropped 22 percent.  China will cut  import duties  on 84 percent of imports from
Switzerland to zero, and will lower the levies on another 12
percent of Swiss shipments by 60 percent over a 10-year period,
including watches, Yu said. The European nation will exempt 99.7
percent of Chinese shipments from the tariffs once the agreement
takes effect, according to the transcript.  China and Switzerland signed a memorandum of understanding
on concluding the free trade agreement during Premier  Li Keqiang ’s visit to Switzerland last week, Xinhua reported on May
24.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  