-- China Coal Falls to Lowest in Almost Four Years on Manufacturing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-27T06:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/china-coal-falls-to-lowest-in-almost-four-years-on-manufacturing.html
Chinese power-station coal fell to
the lowest price in almost four years as the nation’s
manufacturing shrank for the first time in seven months and
hydropower output increased.  Spot coal with an energy value of 5,500 kilocalories per
kilogram at the port of Qinhuangdao, the benchmark grade for the
country, slid to a range of 600  yuan  ($97.96) to 615 yuan a
metric ton as of yesterday, according to data today from the
China Coal Transport and Distribution Association. That’s the
lowest since Oct. 12, 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Manufacturing, which accounts for about 70 percent of
China’s electricity demand, is contracting this month for the
first time since October, according to the preliminary reading
of a Purchasing Managers’ Index by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics on May 23. The nation’s hydropower output in the first
four months of 2013 expanded 20 percent from a year earlier to
181 billion kilowatt-hours, data from the Beijing-based National
Bureau of Statistics showed May 16. Thermal electricity
generation climbed 1.6 percent to 1.34 trillion kWh.  “The low coal price is mainly because of sluggish domestic
demand, especially from the heavy industrial sectors,” said
David Fang, a Beijing-based director at the  China  Coal Transport
and Distribution Association. “Sufficient rainfall in southern
China is squeezing China’s demand for burning thermal coal. The
price will stay at a low level throughout this quarter.”  China’s stockpiles of coal at major power plants were
enough for 20 days of use as of the end of April, according to a
statement on the National Development and Reform Commission’s
website on May 24. The typical level for this time of year is
about 14 days, according to Fang.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sarah Chen in Beijing at 
 schen514@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  