-- Club Med Management Plans Buy-Out With Largest Investors
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-05-27T13:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/club-med-management-plans-buy-out-with-largest-shareholders.html
Club Mediterranee SA (CU)  got a takeover
bid from shareholders Axa Private Equity and  Fosun International
Ltd. (656)  as they seek to remove the travel company from the
spotlight of  capital markets  to accelerate a turnaround.  The investors offered 17 euros for each share of the French
all-inclusive operator, 23 percent more than the May 24 closing
price, they said today. Including a convertible bond and debt,
the transaction has a size of about 665 million euros ($860
million), a person familiar with the figures said. Company
management is also involved in the bid, Club Med said.  Club Med rose as much as 25 percent in Paris, the most in
more than two decades. A transaction including debt would be the
biggest acquisition of a travel-services company in six years,
and would end almost half a century of public listing for Club
Med, which started on the Mediterranean island of Mallorca in
1950 in a village made from used military tents.  “I am convinced that together with AXA and management, we
have the means to face short-term uncertainties to support the
development of Club Mediterranean, in particular in  Asia , and
consolidate its positions in Europe,” said Qian Jiannong, who
manages investment decisions at Fosun’s parent,  Fosun Group. (2196)   Asian Push  Trading of Shanghai-based Fosun was suspended in  Hong Kong 
today on the release. Club Med rose as much as 3.4 euros to
17.25 euros, and traded at 16.99 euros as of 2:18 p.m.  Paris-based Club Med posted losses in eight of the past 13
years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Efforts to strengthen
the business will intensify, as the French market remains
“difficult,” while Club Med will open new villages in emerging
economies, according to a joint statement today.  Chief Executive Officer Henri Giscard D’Estaing has
unveiled plans to more than double the number of customers in
 China  in three years as wealth in the region grows faster than
elsewhere. D’Estaing, the son of former French president Valery Giscard D’Estaing, has led Club Med since 2002 and closed
resorts in  Europe  and expanded in Asia to improve profitability.  The board considers the proposal “friendly” and will
nominate a panel to advise on the bid. Fosun, which owns almost
10 percent in the company, has investments in property, mining
and drugs. Axa holds a 9.37 percent stake in Club Med.  Holding Structure  Fosun and Axa plan to own 46 percent each of a new holding
company that will own the Club Med shares, with management
owning 8 percent.  As a reaction to the takeover proposal, the French
company’s board has decided to suspend the share buyback
program, as well as a liquidity agreement dating back to 2007
with Natixis Securities. The offer is subject to the bidders
gaining control of 50 percent of Club Med’s shares.  Travel operators in Europe are restructuring operations as
the region suffers the longest  recession  since introduction of a
single currency and competition from the Internet increases.  TUI AG (TUI1)  plans to generate 1 billion euros in operating
profit by 2015 and resume its dividend as new Chief Executive
Officer Friedrich Joussen overhauls Europe’s largest tour
operator.  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG)  announced a 1.6 billion-pound
($2.4 billion) refinancing package earlier this month
accompanied by a three-year turnaround plan to improve margins.  Axa Private Equity, Fosun and management were advised by
 Societe Generale SA. (GLE)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  