-- Phillips’s Penalty Kick Sends Crystal Palace Into Premier League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-05-28T00:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/crystal-palace-beats-watford-to-win-promotion-to-premier-league.html
Kevin Phillips scored the only goal
to send Crystal Palace back into the Premier League after an
eight-season absence from English soccer’s elite division.  Phillips converted a penalty kick in extra time against
Watford, his former team, as Palace won yesterday’s Championship
playoff final at Wembley Stadium in  London . Wilfried Zaha, who
will play for Manchester United next season, won the spot kick
when he was fouled by Marco Cassetti.  “It was magnificent to score the winning goal,” Phillips
told the British Broadcasting Corp. “I have experienced three
losses in this game, so it was great to win. This promotion,
with the money in the Premier League, means everything. The club
can build to the future with some good young talent.”  The playoff final is the “biggest financial prize in world
football,” according to accountant Deloitte LLP. Clubs promoted
to the world’s richest soccer league can expect a revenue
increase of more than 60 million pounds ($91 million) in 2013-14,
with approximately 55 million pounds of that coming from the 20-team Premier League’s 3.02 billion-pound television contract
that begins next season.  Teams also receive a minimum 60 million pounds over the
following four seasons if they drop straight back down. Over the
past decade, 17 of the 30 promoted teams have managed to remain
in the Premier League after their first season.  The Eagles dominated during 90 minutes of regulation play,
though couldn’t get past former Arsenal goalkeeper Manuel Almunia in the Watford goal. A string of saves from the Spaniard
pushed the game into extra time.  Top Corner  The breakthrough arrived in the 105th minute when winger
Zaha was tripped by Cassetti on a run into the penalty area and
Phillips sent his kick into the top corner for the latest ever
goal in the Championship playoff final.  Phillips, who played at Watford between 1994 and 1997,
scored 30 goals in the 1999-2000 Premier League season for
Sunderland to earn European soccer’s Golden Shoe award for the
most goals in the continent’s top divisions that year.  Watford almost forced a penalty shootout in the final
minute, though Joel Ward headed Fernando Forestieri’s shot off
the line as Palace held on for the win.  “I am glad I was involved in all of this,” said Zaha, who
made a game-high 24 dribbles according to Opta Sports. “I have
been at the club for 10 years, I have nothing but love for the
club. Going to Manchester United is good for me, but I had to
stay at Palace and get the job done.”  Palace joins Cardiff City and Hull City, which had already
earned promotion as the Championship winner and runner-up, in
moving up to the Premier League. It’s the fourth time the Eagles
have won the playoff final in five appearances.  Watford had been seeking to return to the Premier League
for the first time since 2006-07, when it was relegated after
one season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  