-- David Jones Drops After Sales Slump to 8-Year Low: Sydney Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-05-27T06:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/david-jones-slumps-after-sales-drop-to-record-low-sydney-mover.html
David Jones Ltd. (DJS) , Australia’s second-largest department store company, fell to the lowest in more
than three months after warm winter weather and competition
helped drive quarterly sales to an eight-year low.  The  stock fell  0.8 percent to A$2.56 at the close in
Sydney, the lowest since Feb. 6, after earlier declining as much
as 5.4 percent. Sales in the three months ended April 27 dropped
2.2 percent from a year earlier to A$391 million ($377 million),
David Jones said in a statement today, the lowest since the same
quarter of the Sydney-based company’s 2005 financial year.  Weak consumer sentiment has depressed sales at Australian
retailers and the currency’s strength has stoked online shopping
from overseas stores, leading competitors to reduce prices.
Third-quarter sales from  David Jones  stores open at least 12
months dropped 3.4 percent, compared with a 1 percent drop
expected, based on the median of five analyst estimates compiled
by  Bloomberg News .  While the ongoing depth and breadth of price cuts in the
industry isn’t sustainable, “in the short term, we expect to
see heavy discounting as other retailers attempt to address
excess winter inventory,” Chief Executive Officer Paul Zahra
said in the statement.  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR) , the country’s largest department store
company, said last week that quarterly sales from stores open at
least 12 months were up 0.4 percent.  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES)  dropped the
most in two years on May 17 after forecasting that earnings at
its Target unit, the country’s largest department store chain,
would fall as much as 43 percent this fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  