-- Derivatives Traders Targeted in Iceland Currency Experiment
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-05-27T11:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/derivatives-traders-targeted-in-new-iceland-currency-experiment.html
Iceland is tempering its goal of
lifting capital controls as the new government says it will
probably keep some restrictions to stop  currency speculation .  “It’s possible that Icelanders will, in the same way as
other countries are contemplating, impose limits on derivative
trades with the currency,” Finance Minister  Bjarni Benediktsson 
said in an interview. The nation may also “place a limit on
Icelandic banks gathering foreign exchange in foreign branches.
This can be considered as some kind of restriction on capital
flows, but we can also view this as a normal part of managing
the currency.”  Benediktsson, who together with Prime Minister Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson has pledged to target a swift removal of capital
controls since before April 27 elections, is redefining the goal
as the  euro zone  tries to plot an exit from its controls in
Cyprus. The path Iceland chooses -- and the restrictions the
island ends up leaving in place -- promises to serve as a
guideline for nations learning that such regimes are easier to
put in place than they are to escape.  The balancing act of when to exit currency controls is one
that has prompted a review at the  International Monetary Fund .
The Washington-based lender warns that keeping such limits in
place too long can distort markets, while efforts to prevent
speculation risk hitting the wrong group.  ‘Hot Money’  “You may have the best intentions to target the ‘hot
money’ flows but you may target a broader class of flow and
therefore you may have some collateral damage,” Jonathan Ostry,
deputy director of the IMF’s research department, said in an
interview. “So the intentions may be right but the practical
difficulties should not be underestimated.”  Iceland has in the past shown it’s ready to take extreme
measures with investors. Bondholders in the nation’s biggest
banks were forced to accept an $85 billion default, dwarfing
Iceland’s $14 billion gross domestic product, when the island’s
financial industry imploded in 2008.  Offshore creditors representing about $8 billion have been
trapped by the  capital controls  since Iceland tried to seal off
its markets more than four years ago.  Iceland is now asking creditors in the failed banks to
forgive about $3.6 billion in krona-denominated claims to help
take pressure off the currency once controls are phased out.
Without forcing losses on to bondholders, Iceland can’t return
to a currency regime that is guided by market forces,
Gunnlaugsson said.  Making Mistakes  “It’s in the interest of both parties -- Icelanders and
the foreign creditors -- that we reach an outcome which enables
us to lift controls,” he said in an interview. “One assumes
that it can be completed quickly.”  The desire to maintain some form of protection can
backfire, according to Nobel Economics laureate  Edmund Phelps .  “One of the risks is that since it may be a bit unsettling
to take them off, there may be a tendency, even for a good
government, to hang on to them for too long,” Phelps said in an
interview. “The market may make some mistakes in that interim
period by making some decision on the basis of prices that are
not going to hold.  According to the IMF, keeping currency controls in place
too long can contort markets. Iceland has already struggled to
contain a capital influx into its housing bonds, the island’s
most liquid market and one of the few places offshore investors
can place their kronur without breaching restrictions.  ‘‘The economy, the industries and the nation can’t wait
much longer for solutions,” Fridrik Jonsson, an economist at
the  World Bank  in  Washington , said on his blog today.
“Traditional methods haven’t been sufficient, as the situation
isn’t traditional. It’s time for untraditional and radical”
methods to be used in Iceland, he said.  Carry Trade  The central bank has tried to protect the krona from a
sell-off as controls are gradually scaled back by raising
 interest rates . Iceland’s benchmark rate is 6 percent, compared
with 0.5 percent in the euro zone. That’s spurring demand for
the currency and will make it a target for carry trades, said
Sigurdur Vidarsson, chief executive officer of
 Tryggingamidstodin hf , the island’s latest company to go public.  “Every day the problem is getting bigger and more
unmanageable,” Vidarsson said in an interview. Yet he worries
that private investors “might take all their savings out of the
economy as soon as they get the chance.”  Central bank Governor Mar Gudmundsson said today Iceland
may need to consider a different strategy in phasing out its
controls after measures to date proved inadequate. The bank has
discussed the option of imposing an exit tax with the  Finance
Ministry , he said.  ‘Considerable Pressure’  “Iceland’s balance of payments crisis can lead to
considerable pressure on the krona and even the insolvency of
some parties,” Gudmundsson said today a meeting in Reykjavik.  At the  IMF , the view is that “given the distortive costs
of maintaining controls for a very long time, you do want to be
proactive in moving towards liberalization,” Ostry said. “But
not before the risks that gave rise to the need to impose
controls have been adequately dealt with.”  The new government, which ousted a Social Democrat-led
coalition that had targeted euro adoption as a next step after
capital controls, says it will try to remove Iceland’s currency
restrictions during the current four-year electoral term.  “We want to do that and we’ll explore all options in order
to do that,” Benediktsson said. “It may happen in some sort of
stages, but we can’t afford to be tangled in capital controls
over a long period of time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  