-- Duke Rallies Past Syracuse 16-10 for Second Men’s Lacrosse Title
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2013-05-28T04:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/duke-defeats-syracuse-to-win-men-s-college-lacrosse-tournament.html
Duke University overcame a five-goal
second quarter deficit to beat Syracuse University 16-10 and win
college lacrosse’s national men’s championship for a second time.  Seventh-seeded Duke trailed 6-1 at Lincoln Financial Field
in Philadelphia yesterday before rallying past the top-seeded
Orange and adding to the  National Collegiate Athletic
Association  title it won in 2010.  “It’s a testament to young men who aren’t willing to give
up, who come to work every day and just want to work hard and
care about each other,” Duke Coach John Danowski said in a
television interview. “Sometimes it’s overused in coaching, but
these kids really do love each other.”  Danowski said the five-goal lead Syracuse built in the
game’s opening minutes left him “freaking out” and looking for
someone to make a single play to help Duke turn it around.  Jordan Wolf made that play, scoring on the team’s 12th shot
to close to 5-1, helping the Blue Devils regain their composure,
according to David Lawson, a senior who had two goals in the
game.  “We weren’t really feeling it and I knew once we got one
we were going to start rolling,” Lawson said. “And that’s
exactly what happened.”  Wolf finished with four goals and two assists while Josh
Dionne and Josh Offit added three goals each as the Blue Devils
went on a 12-1 scoring run, closing the game out with 10 of the
final 13 points.  “We only had to get one goal at a time, that first one
fell and we just kept playing hard,” Wolf said. “It’s just
amazing.”  Danowski also cited the play of Brendan Fowler, who won 20
of 28 face-offs, including 13 straight, as key to the victory.  “He’s been fabulous all season,” Danowski said.  Dylan Donahue scored three goals and JoJo Marasco scored
twice in the fourth quarter for Syracuse, which was looking for
s 12th national title.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net . 