-- Efes Bondholders Crying Into Their Beer on Turkish Ad Ban
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2013-05-27T13:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/efes-bondholders-crying-into-their-beer-on-ad-ban-turkey-credit.html
The  Middle East ’s biggest beermaker
is getting hammered in the credit markets as Turkish Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  cracks down on alcohol sales and
advertising.  The yield on  Anadolu Efes Biracilik Malt Sanayi AS’s (AEFES)  dollar
bonds due November 2022 surged 53 basis points since May 9 to a
record 3.99 percent at the end of last week as lawmakers
approved legislation restricting alcohol. That’s about 90 basis
points above the yield on Denver, Colorado-based  Molson Coors
Brewing Co. (TAP) ’s May 2022 bonds, which have the same BBB-  rating  at
 Standard & Poor’s .  Shares of Istanbul-based Efes slid May 24 as Parliament
passed laws to ban the promotion of alcohol, forbid retailers
from displaying alcoholic products where they would be visible
from outside, add warning labels, restrict scenes on TV that may
encourage drinking, outlaw sales within 100 meters (328 feet) of
houses of worship or schools and prevent retail sales from 10
p.m. until 6 a.m. Erdogan told lawmakers the steps were in line
with a constitutional obligation to protect the nation’s youth.  “These measures are clearly detrimental to Efes’s sales,”
Julian Rimmer, a broker who covers Turkey and  Russia  at CF
Global trading in  London , said by e-mail on May 24. “The
biggest  investment risk  to Turkey right now would be the pursuit
of an overly Islamic agenda by the government.”  Ankara Meetings  Opponents of the legislation said the moves are part of a
broader Islamist agenda by Erdogan’s administration. Efes
management was in Ankara for meetings with government officials
and unable to comment, according to the company’s press office.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Efes bonds over
10-year dollar debt from the Turkish Treasury surged to 52 basis
points, or 0.52 percentage point, the highest on record, from an
average 13 basis points between January and May, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The rapid introduction of this bill is both surprising
and disappointing,” London-based  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s
largest distiller of alcoholic beverages, said in an e-mailed
statement on May 24. “We believe that a more collaborative
approach among industry, government and third parties would have
led to a better outcome.”  Salted Yogurt  Diageo paid $2.1 billion in 2011 for Mey Icki, a Turkish
producer of the nation’s traditional spirit called raki. The
company said then that it didn’t expect “extreme treatment” of
alcoholic drinks by the government.  The law takes force when signed by President  Abdullah Gul ,
a former member of Erdogan’s ruling  Justice and Development
Party . Erdogan banned alcoholic beverages at municipal
restaurants when he was Istanbul’s mayor in the 1990s. He said
last month that ayran, a salted yogurt drink, was the national
beverage rather than anything alcoholic in Turkey, where 99
percent of the population is Muslim. A draft of the alcohol law
was submitted by members of his party to parliament two weeks
later on May 13.  “We’re not banning alcohol in Turkey,” Erdogan said on
May 24. “According to the 58th article of the constitution
we’re doing what’s required and in doing this we’re saying that
it has to be 100 meters away from mosques, educational
facilities and we’re banning advertising, promotion and every
kind of media ad.”  Physical Brawling  Turkey  doesn’t want “a generation that drinks day and
night and wanders around in a haze,” Erdogan said.  Health Minister Mehmet Muezzinoglu said alcohol was a cause
of cancer and that about 5,500 people die each year in Turkey in
alcohol-related traffic accidents. The measures are similar to
others around the world, including in the U.S.,  Switzerland ,
Denmark and other European countries, he said, according to the
state-run Anatolia news agency.  The law was passed amid physical brawling in parliament,
according to Anatolia, which cited opposition lawmakers.  “They passed this law yesterday with an authoritarian
mindset and without giving the opposition a voice,” Anatolia
quoted Republican People’s Party lawmaker Akif Hamzacebi as
saying. “This shows what a great threat, how anti-democratic a
mindset Turkey is facing.”  Turkey’s average annual consumption of alcohol among people
aged 15 and over is 1.5 liters per person, the lowest among 24
countries measured by the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development. That compares with 10.2 liters in the U.K. and
11.7 liters in  Germany , according to latest data, from 2010, on
its website.  Tax Revenue  The measure may cause some erosion in  tax revenue , Finance
Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said on May 24. The government earns
about 8 billion liras ($4.3 billion) a year from taxes on
alcohol, he said.  Efes won an investment-grade rating from Moody’s Investors
Service in October and subsequently sold the country’s first
investment-grade non-bank corporate bonds the same month. The
yield fell as low as 3.46 percent in December.  Efes got the rating about seven months before Turkey did,
when Moody’s upgraded the sovereign on May 16. Moody’s didn’t
respond to requests for comment made to their offices in London
by e-mail and telephone on May 24.  Efes shares dropped 7.6 percent on May 24, the biggest
decline since September 2011. Competitor Turk Tuborg Bira & Malt
Sanayii AS dropped 2 percent.  Extra Yield  “Measures taken to decrease consumption have created a
negative investor sentiment,” Irem Okutgen, an analyst at
Garanti Securities in Istanbul, said in a phone interview on May
24. “These may result in some shrinkage in the market, but we
have to see how seriously they will be implemented first.”  The yield on Turkish two-year  lira notes  fell four basis
point to 5.23 percent at 4:10 p.m. in Istanbul, while the lira
rose 0.1 percent to 1.8442 per dollar.  Efes competes in Turkey with foreign brands including
Tuborg.  “Efes, Tuborg and people who find a beer after work
refreshing are the obvious losers,” CF Global’s Rimmer said.
“Avoid Efes on further alcohol restrictions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  