-- EU Allowing Arms Sales to Syrian Rebels Under U.K. Pressure
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-05-28T14:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/eu-allows-arms-sales-to-syrian-rebels-bowing-to-u-k-pressure.html
European Union governments gave the
go-ahead for weapons sales to the Syrian opposition, seeking to
increase pressure on Bashar al-Assad’s regime after two years of
civil war.  The U.K., the prime mover behind the EU decision, said that
it wouldn’t immediately start to supply the rebels with arms and
that other economic sanctions will be prolonged by 12 months.  “It was a difficult decision for some countries, but it
was necessary and right to reinforce international efforts to
reach a diplomatic solution to the conflict in Syria,” U.K.
Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said in a statement late
yesterday after 13 hours of wrangling among foreign ministers in
Brussels. “It was important for  Europe  to send a clear signal
to the Assad regime that it has to negotiate seriously, and that
all options remain on the table if it refuses to do so.”  Also backed by  France , the arms-sales authorization was
intended to narrow the options of Assad, who has clung to power
throughout the civil war that has claimed at least 80,000 lives
and flooded neighboring countries with refugees.  Russia’s Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said the
move could worsen the Syrian crisis and damage prospects for
negotiations at a peace conference proposed for next month by
Russia and the U.S.  Inflaming Conflict  “The EU is pouring oil on the flames of the conflict in
 Syria  and reducing the chances of holding the conference,”
Ryabkov told reporters in Moscow. He also said that Russia won’t
cancel a contract to deliver S-300 ground-to-air missiles to
Assad’s forces, calling the anti-aircraft and anti-missile
system  a “stabilizing factor” that could prevent a wider
conflict.  At the EU,  Austria  led the resistance to a change in
European policy, saying that sending military hardware would
undermine efforts to promote a negotiated solution and betray
the principles that earned the EU the Nobel Peace Prize last
year.  “We just won the peace prize,” said Austria’s foreign
minister, Michael Spindelegger. “The people in Syria being
killed in this conflict wouldn’t benefit if we ship weapons. It
would result in an arms race.”  Escalation Fears  Spindelegger threatened to withdraw Austria’s United
Nations peacekeepers from the  Golan Heights  out of concern for
their safety if the Syrian conflict escalates.  European countries were freed to make case-by-case
decisions on arms sales, making sure of “adequate safeguards”
that the weapons will be delivered to the opposition and be used
to protect civilians, according to an EU statement. No timetable
was given for starting the shipments.  EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton , who struggled to
enforce a common line across the 27-nation body, told reporters
that “you’re quite right to point to the fact that member
states may take different decisions.”  The action follows a meeting last week in Amman, Jordan,
among countries backing the opposition, at which U.S. Secretary
of State  John Kerry  said the U.S. and its allies will expand
support for the Syrian rebels and consider all options short of
deploying U.S. troops if diplomacy doesn’t halt the bloody civil
war.  Peace Talks  While the EU foreign ministers were talking, Kerry and
Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  met in Paris to discuss
possible participants at the international peace conference they
have proposed to seek negotiations toward a cease-fire and a
transitional government in Syria.  “We concentrated on the need to determine the participants
in the conference, first of all from the Syrian side -- the
government and the opposition groups,” Lavrov told reporters
after the meeting.  The diplomats also discussed whether to expand the group of
countries invited to the conference “to include all key outside
players who have influence on the situation on the ground,”
Lavrov said, in a reference to  Iran .  Russia has proposed including Iran in a peace conference.
“Considering the influence of Tehran in the region and the role
it plays, it wouldn’t be right not to invite it to this
meeting,” Ryabkov said today in Moscow.  Countries supporting the Syrian rebel forces didn’t reach
an agreement on Iran’s participation when they met in  Jordan 
last week.  ‘Deeply Committed’  “The chances for success are there,” Lavrov said. “We
will do everything in our power to use those chances to make
them realized.”  The U.S. and Russia “are deeply committed” to organizing
talks on establishing a transitional government “to allow the
people of Syria to decide the future of Syria,” Kerry said.  It was the third meeting between the two men this month,
and the sixth so far this year, with the Syrian crisis
dominating their talks. Kerry and Lavrov then met with French
Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius after he returned from Brussels.  While Assad’s government has agreed to attend an
international conference next month aimed at ending 26 months of
conflict, opposition forces haven’t yet chosen their new
leadership and haven’t pledged to participate.  Washington Pressure  Pressure has been building in  Washington  among some
Democrats and Republicans in Congress for the U.S. to do more
militarily to stop the bloodshed, with calls for providing
weaponry to the rebels and to establish a no-fly zone.  Senator  John McCain , an  Arizona  Republican, crossed the
Turkish border and went into Syria yesterday, spokesman  Brian Rogers  said, without disclosing details. The trip was reported
earlier today by the Daily Beast website. McCain backs
increasing support for the rebels.  At last week’s meeting in Jordan by 11 countries backing
Syrian rebels, Kerry condemned intervention on Assad’s behalf by
Lebanese Hezbollah militants and Iran. Hezbollah’s “active
military support to the Assad regime” is worsening sectarian
tensions in Syria and “perpetuates the regime’s campaign of
terror against its own people,” Kerry said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Paris at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  