-- EU Lawmakers Seek Carbon Deal as Fix Likely to Survive in Panel
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-05-27T15:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/eu-lawmakers-seek-carbon-deal-as-fix-likely-to-survive-in-panel.html
Several European Union lawmakers are
seeking a compromise over a rescue plan for the region’s carbon
market, aiming to win majority support for the measure in the EU
Parliament after a possible victory in a committee next month.  Bas Eickhout of the Greens group in the European Parliament
and four other members of the assembly’s environment committee
from various parties seek one-time carbon-permit supply curbs to
tackle a record glut of allowances, according to a document
obtained by  Bloomberg News . That would limit the original
proposal designed by the region’s regulator and could help
attract votes of some lawmakers who are undecided on whether to
back the carbon-market intervention plan.  The draft measure to delay emission-permit auctions is the
first step toward strengthening the world’s biggest cap-and-trade market after prices slumped to all-time lows in April.
It’s scheduled for a new vote in the environment panel on June
19 and then in the whole Parliament on July 2 after the assembly
declined to support it last month.  “It is clear that the environment committee is unlikely to
reject it, but it can still be rejected in the plenary,”
Eickhout said in a phone interview today. “That’s why it is
important to have a good proposal that could carry majority
support in the whole Parliament.”  Carbon allowances for delivery in December rose as much as
2.3 percent to 3.64 euros ($4.71) a metric ton today on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange and were at 3.53 euros as of 4:20 p.m.
in  London . The contract tumbled to an all-time low of 2.46 euros
last month on concerns that policy makers will fail to agree a
rescue plan for the market.  Exceptional Circumstances  Eickhout, Corinne Lepage of Alliance of Liberals and
Democrats, Sabine Wils from the European United Left-Nordic
Green Left as well as Linda McAvan andDan Jorgensen of the
Socialists and Democrats group, proposed a total of nine
amendments to the carbon fix designed by the European
Commission, according to the document.  The commission may “in exceptional circumstances” adapt
the auctioning timetable to ensure an orderly functioning of the
market, according to their proposal. The wording they are
seeking is in line with a modification of the draft measure
sought by Ireland, which holds the rotating presidency in the EU
Council of Ministers in first half of this year.  “The idea behind tabling the Council text is to make
future negotiations between Parliament and Council easier, and
to put pressure on those  member states  who do not have a
position yet,” Eickhout said.  Qualified Majority  The Parliament is considering the first element of the
carbon-market fix plan, or a draft change to the EU emissions
trading law that would enable postponing auctions of some
allowances from 2013-2015 to 2019-2020. In the second step, a
separate regulation will set out the details of the delay.  The strategy, known as backloading, has divided policy
makers and the industry. To be enacted, it needs qualified
majority support by member states and approval from the
Parliament.  The European  People’s Party , the biggest group in the
Parliament, is planning to put forward an amendment to reject
backloading and several changes aimed at restricting the
proposal, according to its lawmaker Eija-Riitta Korhola.  The rejection proposal will “most certainly” be voted
down by the environment committee, Korhola, who oversees the
draft measure in the EPP, said on her Twitter Inc. account
today. “Plenary is another thing,” she said.  New Modifications  Parliamentarians on April 16 voted 334 to 315, with 63
abstentions, to prevent the commission’s proposal to alter the
EU emissions-trading law. They opted to send the measure back to
the committee for further talks.  Members of the environment panel have until 6 p.m. in
Brussels today to submit modifications to the draft measure.
Matthias Groote, the chairman of the committee and lawmaker in
charge of the backloading proposal in the Parliament, said last
week he wasn’t planning to put forward any own amendments before
today’s deadline.  In his role as the supervisor of the carbon fix, Groote can
drawing on modifications sought by various members of the panel
and offer a compromise change that could win support of various
political groups after today and before the committee vote next
month, according to Eickhout. In the plenary session
parliamentarians will vote on the environment panel’s report and
the amendments it backed.  “The plenary decision is going to be a close call again,”
Eickhout said. “Some people just want a rejection. But there’s
also some EPP members realizing it’s better to have a
compromise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  