-- European Stocks Rebound From Weekly Decline; Fiat Rises
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-05-27T15:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/european-stock-futures-rise-as-china-backs-germany.html
European stocks  rose, rebounding from
their first weekly loss in more than a month, as carmakers and
technology companies gained.  Vivendi (VIV)  SA climbed the most in two months as  Qatar Telecom 
QSC said it raised $12 billion to finance its bid for the French
media and telecommunications company’s stake in Maroc Telecom
SA.  Fiat SpA (F)  advanced 4.4 percent after  Italy ’s industry
minister offered support to keep its plants in the country.  Club
Mediterranee (CU)  SA jumped the most on record after the French
holiday-resort operator said it got a bid from two shareholders.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.3 percent to 304.34 at
the close of trading. European stocks fell last week as
investors debated when the  Federal Reserve  will scale back
monetary stimulus, while a report showed Chinese manufacturing
unexpectedly shrank. Equity markets in the U.S. and U.K. are
closed for holidays today.  “We have seen quite a strong correction, especially in the
U.S., and it seems like some investors think that the correction
is over and they are prepared to go back into the market,”
Raimund Saxinger, a  fund manager  at Frankfurt-Trust Investment
GmbH, which oversees about $22 billion, said in a telephone
interview. “The closure of the U.K. market is certainly an
important influence as liquidity is quite thin.”  The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600 companies
was 66 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  National benchmark indexes climbed in 15 of the 17 western
European markets open today. France’s CAC 40 added 1 percent and
 Germany ’s DAX gained 0.9 percent.  Vivendi Stake  Vivendi rose 2.8 percent to 15.60 euros, its biggest gain
since March 20. Qatar Telecom, which recently changed its name
to Ooredoo, is competing with Emirates Telecommunications Corp.
to buy Vivendi’s Maroc Telecom stake and both made binding
offers in April. Vivendi wants to complete the sale by October,
people familiar with the matter said April 29.  Fiat, Italy’s largest carmaker, climbed 4.4 percent to 5.66
euros, its highest price since August 2011. The Italian
government will ask Chief Executive officer  Sergio Marchionne 
what it “can do to let the carmaker keep its plants in Italy,”
Industry Minister Flavio Zanonato said in a television interview
with Sky Tg24. “We should find a way to match Fiat’s interest
with the country’s,” he said.  Club Mediterranee soared 22 percent to 16.95 euros, its
biggest gain since at least October 1989. The French all-inclusive tour operator said it received a takeover bid from
management and its two largest shareholders, Axa Private Equity
and  Fosun International Ltd. (656) , that values the company at 540
million euros ($699 million).  SAP Gains  SAP AG (SAP)  added 2.1 percent to 59.89 euros. The world’s
largest maker of business-management software has ended
discussions to acquire  Jive Software Inc. (JIVE) , which has a market
value of more than $1 billion, people familiar with the matter
said.  SAP quit talks with Jive, which makes social-networking
applications for businesses, after a thorough review of the
company, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
matter is private.  Commerzbank AG advanced 4.5 percent to 8.02 euros. Shares
in Germany’s second-biggest lender have still fallen 25 percent
this year. Equinet Bank AG upgraded its rating on the stock to
buy from sell.  “While the market environment remains tough for
Commerzbank and the risks are still significant, we think that
the decline in share price has been too much,” Equinet analysts
wrote. “Hence, we see now an interesting buying opportunity for
speculative investors.”  Praktiker AG tumbled 6.4 percent to 96.4 euro cents, the
lowest price since the German home-improvement retailer sold
shares to the public in November 2005. Commerzbank downgraded
 the stock  to sell from reduce, saying that cold, wet weather has
hurt demand for the company’s products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  