-- Evil Animals Face Headless Nude in Haring Graffiti Show
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2013-05-27T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/evil-animals-face-headless-nude-in-haring-graffiti-show.html
Few artists make it into the Guinness
Book of World Records.  Keith Haring  did.  He inspired the largest commercially available jigsaw
puzzle on earth -- 32,256 pieces covering an area of 17 feet (5
meters) by 6 feet.  The Haring show at the Musee d’Art Moderne de la Ville de
Paris is setting another record: With some 250 items, it’s the
largest ever devoted to the graffiti artist in  Europe .  Fame came fast in Haring’s short life.  After moving from his native  Pennsylvania  to New York in
1978, the 19-year-old quickly became the darling of subway
commuters: They loved his graffiti of radiant babies, glowing
hearts and cute dogs furtively chalked on walls and billboards.  Elaborating his subway drawings in gaudy pop colors, first
on vinyl tarp, later on canvas, the local celebrity soon
attracted the attention of international trendsetters.  In 1982, Haring was invited by Documenta in Kassel,
 Germany , the world’s most prestigious show of avant-garde art.
In 1984, the Venice Biennale feted him as one of the champions
of street art.  In 1986, prodded by his friend and mentor  Andy Warhol , he
opened a “Pop Shop” in New York’s Soho district, selling
reproductions of his iconic images printed on T-shirts, toys,
mugs and posters. Two years later, another Pop Shop opened in
 Tokyo .  Early Death  In 1990, a few weeks short of his 32nd birthday, he died of
AIDS-related complications.  The Musee d’Art Moderne show stresses the subversive and
political side to Haring’s art. The works are grouped around
specific themes: his gay activism and his aversion to
capitalism, racism, religion and nuclear power.  The Tokyo Pop Shop and some outsize works are on view at
the Centquatre, 104 Rue d’Aubervilliers, a former funeral hall
and now a cultural center.  During his early youth, Haring had amused himself with
chalking penises near  Tiffany (TIF) ’s, the Museum of  Modern Art  and
other pillars of the establishment. Later, he celebrated the
joys of gay life before he joined the crusade for safe sex.  Business and religion often appear hand in hand as dollar
signs and crucifixes used as weapons or protruding from the
mouth of an evil animal. Having himself been a Jesus Freak in
his teens, Haring exorcized his youthful aberration with
relentless attacks on Christian hypocrisy.  Anti Apartheid  He was also obsessed with Apartheid in  Africa  and racism in
the U.S. A photo in the catalog shows him distributing homemade
posters saying “Free  South Africa ” in  Central Park .  The 1983 death of the black graffiti artist Michael Stewart
in the custody of the  New York  City Transit Police shocked
Haring profoundly: A giant canvas shows a naked black man
strangled by white hands while crosses rain down from the sky.  On another canvas, we see a naked woman with a computer in
the place of her head while a long-toothed monster looks on -- a
warning against the impending cyber age.  By using simple, easily readable icons, the catalog tells
us, Haring provokes our imagination and invites us to avoid
cliches and stereotypes. That seems far-fetched.  The truth is that Haring’s cartoonish style and the narrow
repertory of his images demonstrate the limits of his talent,
not the profundity of his message.  Even less convincing are his attacks on capitalism. Like
his friend Warhol, Haring was a marketing genius who shrewdly
profited from the system he pretended to despise.  “Keith Haring: The Political Line” runs through Aug. 18.
Information:  http://www.mam.paris.fr .  For more information about the jigsaw puzzle, go to
 http://www.ravensburger.com .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Martin
Gayford  on European art and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater.  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 