-- Mexico Peso Volatility Holds Almost at Nine-Month High on Fed
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-05-27T15:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/mexico-peso-volatility-holds-almost-at-nine-month-high-on-fed.html
Mexican peso volatility held at
almost a nine-month high on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
reduce stimulus measures that have fueled a surge in demand for
the Latin American country’s assets.  One-month historical volatility, a gauge of the magnitude
of the peso’s fluctuations over the period, was little changed
at 10.33 percent as of 10:55 a.m. in Mexico City, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It rose to 10.37 percent on May 24,
the highest since Aug. 27. The peso appreciated 0.4 percent to
12.4869 per dollar. Its 1.5 percent decline last week was the
biggest among the 16 major dollar counterparts tracked by
Bloomberg after  South Africa ’s rand.  Demand for peso assets has fallen since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week that policy makers may cut the pace of
bond purchases at the next few policy meetings if they see
indications of sustained growth. Foreign investors, facing
 interest rates  in the U.S. and  Japan  at virtually zero, had been
pouring money into peso bonds to profit from higher yields.  Peso swings are on the rise because of “some uncertainty
about the Fed policy,” Bernd Berg, an emerging-markets
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG, said by telephone from
Zurich. “Now that the market starts to speculate that the Fed
could potentially withdraw part of the liquidity at one point in
time, there is an impact on emerging-market assets and
especially the Mexican peso.”  Markets in the U.S.,  Mexico ’s biggest trading partner, were
closed today for the Memorial Day holiday.  Yields on peso bonds maturing in 2024 increased two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.12 percent, the highest
level on a closing basis since Feb. 27, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell 0.18 centavo to 142.54
centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  