-- Fiera Targets U.S. for $150 Billion Asset Goal: Corporate Canada
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-05-27T20:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/fiera-targets-u-s-for-150-billion-asset-goal-corporate-canada.html
Fiera Capital Corp. (FSZ) , the Canadian
 money manager  trading close to a five-year high, plans to more
than double its assets to C$150 billion ($145 billion) by adding
smaller U.S. firms.  Fiera, which managed C$64.5 billion as of March 31 after
buying Natcan Investment Management from  National Bank of Canada 
last year, expects to increase that amount over the next three
years through acquisitions and internal growth. A year ago,
Fiera was targeting assets of C$100 billion.  “Our objective is to hopefully make an acquisition or two
or three in the U.S. market, preferably in the high net worth
segment because we already have institutional distribution,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jean-Guy Desjardins said.
“The sweet spot for us is between $2 billion and $10 billion of
assets under management.”  Takeovers are part of the reason Montreal-based Fiera has
outperformed other Canadian asset-management stocks in recent
years, said Greg Dean, an analyst and portfolio manager at CI
Investments Inc.’s Cambridge Advisors unit in Toronto. Fiera has
returned 29 percent in the past three years, the best
performance among Canada’s five largest publicly traded asset
managers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The types of deals Jean-Guy has done have been one-off,
negotiated transactions, and he’s had a reason why those make
sense for his business every time,” said Dean, part of an
investment team that oversees about C$6 billion in equities,
including Fiera stock. “If they remain disciplined in their
approach, unearth some of the less competitive transactions
instead of buying the first thing that’s up for sale, then they
will be equally successful.”  Five-Year High  With a market value of C$573 million, Fiera is the fifth-largest publicly traded asset manager in Canada.  IGM Financial
Inc. (IGM)  is the largest, with a value of C$12 billion. Fiera fell
0.1 percent to C$10.09 at the close of trade in Toronto today.
The stock reached C$10.35 in intraday trading on May 24, its
highest since January 2008.  Fiera’s C$150 billion assets target by 2016 is predicated
on stock prices rising by an average 5 percent annually,
Desjardins said. The company can tap National Bank’s
distribution network, as well as its own sales force, to sell
mutual funds to investors.  “To get to C$150 billion you need C$85 billion, and of
that, $65 (billion) is organic,” Desjardins said May 23 after
the company’s annual meeting in Montreal. “So we need to do
about C$20 billion in strategic acquisitions.”  U.S. Targets  Fiera is targeting U.S. fund managers that either focus on
 emerging markets  equities, emerging markets bonds, global fixed
income or U.S. fixed income, Desjardins said.  “If we can make an acquisition that gives us the high net
worth base in terms of clients, marketing and servicing talent
that takes care of that base, and investment management
capabilities in any of these segments, that to us would be an
ideal candidate to acquire,” he said.  Starting small in the U.S. increases the odds that the
expansion will pay off, said Dean at Cambridge Advisors.  “I’d like to see them do a tuck-in deal in the U.S. to get
that expertise and build a track record,” he said. “Then maybe
in 12 to 18 months you can find a sizable piece that is very
accretive because you’ve already got the people and the
structure to run those assets.”  Bank Support  Fiera has a “war chest” of about C$150 million available
for transactions, Desjardins said, adding that the company could
also sell stock to pay for a deal.  “If we’re successful in what we are trying to do there’s a
reasonable probability that at some point we will need to do an
equity financing to support our acquisition strategy,” he said.  Fiera’s biggest difficulty may come in persuading its
largest shareholder to approve deals that would involve stock,
said Dean. Montreal-based National Bank,  Canada ’s sixth-biggest
lender, controlled about 35 percent of Fiera’s outstanding
shares as of last month, according to the company’s management
information circular.  “National Bank is going to have a huge say in every
potential acquisition that involves stock because they are such
a big shareholder,” said Dean. “Fiera’s management team is
very entrepreneurial, and if they have to run that decision by a
very large entity they might not be able to act as quickly as
they would want to. Canadian banks are pretty risk-averse.”  National Bank is “fully supportive” of Fiera’s growth
strategy, Claude Breton, spokesman for National Bank, said in an
e-mail. “Right from the start, we stated clearly we viewed
Fiera and its management team as a growth platform in Canada and
beyond.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  