-- German Home Boom as Europe Stagnates Set to Hurt Merkel
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-05-28T07:45:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/german-housing-boom-as-europe-stagnates-may-hurt-merkel-at-poll.html
Taxi driver Michael Ruedor lived for
20 years in a downtown Berlin apartment close to Checkpoint
Charlie before rising rents forced him out.  “Only millionaires are in my building now,” Ruedor, 56,
said in an interview last month. The native Berliner moved two
years ago to the suburb of Britz, about 8 kilometers (5 miles)
south of the central Mitte district that he used to call home.  Housing costs in Germany’s largest cities are rising at the
fastest pace since reunification in 1990 as investors seeking to
capitalize on growth in  Europe ’s biggest economy turn to real
estate, according to data compiled by Berlin-based research firm
Bulwien Gesa AG.  In a country where the ratio of renters to owners is among
the highest in Europe, Germany’s housing boom is an unwelcome
shock for many voters that threatens to turn into a liability
for  Chancellor Angela Merkel  in federal elections on Sept. 22.  Housing is among the campaign themes on the agenda today as
Merkel consults with members of her  Christian Democratic Union 
to draw up the party’s election platform. Less than four months
before the ballot, the main political parties are jostling for
votes with pledges of subsidies and more regulation to limit
rent increases they say will keep homes affordable for tenants.  “Politicians realize there’s unrest in the big cities
where prices have risen,” Peter Grottian, a professor of
political science at the Free University of Berlin, said in a
telephone interview. “They see it as a wake-up call.”  Cushioning Tenants  Whereas Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s U.K. government has
introduced a credit-easing program and pledged 3.5 billion
pounds ($5.3 billion) to spur home ownership, in Germany the
focus of Merkel’s coalition and her election challengers is on
cushioning tenants from landlords seeking to profit from rising
prices.  About 53 percent of Germans own their homes, compared with
70 percent in the U.K. and 72 percent in  Italy , data compiled by
LBS Research shows. In the U.S., the figure is 65 percent,
according to the Census Bureau.  Merkel addressed the topic in a speech to city mayors in
 Frankfurt  on April 24, saying the government agreed on steps in
December to cap rent increases for existing tenants at 15
percent over three years. In February, her  Christian Democrats 
said they will build more affordable housing.  “Our interventions in the housing market are necessary,”
Merkel said, citing the need for affordable rents without
strangling the construction of private apartments to increase
the housing stock. She acknowledged divisions over the political
response, saying that “judging by the selective applause,
there’s still not 100 percent agreement here.”  ‘Massive Failure’  Peer Steinbrueck , Merkel’s Social Democratic Party
challenger, said yesterday that her government is committing a
“massive failure” by not doing enough to help make housing
affordable for pensioners, students and average earners at a
time when incomes are failing to keep pace with rent rises.  German rents rose by an average of 15 percent in the past
five years, while apartment prices gained 23 percent, according
to  Bulwien Gesa . Full-time workers earned an average 3,391 euros
per month in 2012, 12 percent more than in 2007, according to
the Federal Statistics Office.  The SPD’s solution is to cap rents that landlords can
charge for new tenants to 10 percent above the neighborhood
average to “put a brake on spiraling prices,” according to the
party’s platform.  Polls so far suggest an electoral deadlock. Merkel’s
coalition leads the SPD and their Green party allies by 44
percent to 40 percent in an Emnid poll published May 26. That
wouldn’t be enough to form a government after the election.  ‘Completely Misguided’  Further legislation risks hurting the German real estate
market by making it less profitable for developers to build and
investors to buy homes, said Joerg Schwagenscheidt, chief
operating officer of Germany’s fourth-largest residential
landlord,  GSW Immobilien AG. (GIB)   “The ideas being discussed are completely misguided and
counterproductive,” Schwagenscheidt said by phone. “Not only
will they make investment more difficult, but the debate itself
is making the market less predictable for investors.”  Germany’s gains run counter to the rest of the euro region,
where apartment prices fell an average 3.7 percent over the past
five years, data compiled by the European Central Bank shows. It
also clashes with the sensibilities of many voters in Germany
used to strict terms on mortgages including typical down
payments of 20 percent and a rare use of interest-only loans.
German residential-property values stagnated between 1995 and
2008 when most other European countries witnessed a decade-long
boom.  Berlin Skyline  Nowhere is the demand more evident than in Berlin. In the
capital city’s central neighborhoods, where rapid  population
growth  has led to Germany’s tightest housing market and
construction cranes punctuate the skyline, real estate-related
protests are frequent occurrences.  In Prenzlauer Berg, a fashionable Berlin neighborhood
dotted with boutiques and cafes, luxury renovations have been
banned by the local buildings council, led by the opposition
Green party, to make it more difficult for investors to upgrade
homes and resell them at a profit. Since January, it’s illegal
to combine apartments, add floor heating or install fireplaces.  Rents in Berlin climbed 32 percent in the past five years
while prices for existing apartments jumped 41 percent,
according to data compiled by online broker  ImmobilienScout 24 .  Squeezed Out  “We want to stop the greed,” said Jens-Holger Kirchner,
head of urban development in the district and a member of the
Greens, who sponsored the legislation. “It’s OK to earn a
decent profit from housing. But it’s not OK to invest to the
hilt and squeeze out a whole group of residents.”  For all the uproar, German real estate is cheaper than in
other large European countries. It costs an unmarried tenant
about 25 percent of annual income to rent a studio apartment in
Munich,  Germany ’s most expensive city, compared with 40 percent
in  London  and 35 percent in Paris, data compiled by the  IW
Cologne  economic institute shows.  The average monthly rent in Munich is about 14 euros per
square meter, compared with 44 euros per square meter in London,
according to data compiled by Chicago-based broker Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc. It’s also cheaper to own property in Germany, with
an average price of 4,590 euros per square meter in Munich
compared with 9,270 euros in London, broker Knight Frank LLP
estimates.  That’s little consolation to Ruedor as he picks up taxi
fares in central Berlin, where he can no longer afford to live.  “Newcomers to Berlin are welcome,” he said, making a
right turn into Unter den Linden, Berlin’s famous tree-lined
avenue. “But it shouldn’t get to the point where people are
driven out of their neighborhood.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  