-- German Stocks Gain After First Weekly Decline in a Month
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-05-27T15:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/german-stocks-gain-after-first-weekly-decline-in-a-month.html
German stocks  rose, following the
benchmark DAX Index’s first weekly decline in more than a month,
as technology and auto shares advanced.  SAP AG (SAP)  gained 2.1 percent after the world’s largest maker
of business-software systems was said to have abandoned talks to
buy Jive Software Inc.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  added 4.5 percent after
Equinet Bank AG upgraded  Germany ’s second-largest lender.
 Praktiker AG (PRA)  plunged to the lowest price since its initial
public offering after Commerzbank downgraded the shares.  The DAX Index climbed 0.9 percent to 8,383.3 at the close
of trading in  Frankfurt , halting a two-day decline. The gauge
dropped 1.1 percent last week amid concern the U.S. Federal
Reserve will reduce its stimulus measures. Equity markets in the
U.K. and the U.S. are closed for public holidays today. The HDAX
Index also increased 0.9 percent today.  “It’s still equities that probably offer -- from a
relative and absolute perspective -- the best outlook,” David Wartenweiler, chief investment officer at Habib Bank AG Zurich,
told Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television. “This is where
money is going to flow since a lot of investors are still
underinvested on the equities side.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the DAX was 60 percent lower than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  SAP added 2.1 percent to 59.89 euros. People familiar with
the matter said the maker of enterprise-resource planning
applications halted its talks with Jive, which has a market
value of more than $1 billion. SAP decided that Jive’s products
overlapped too much with its own, one of the people said.  Aixtron, Commerzbank  Aixtron SE, a maker of equipment for the semiconductor
industry, advanced 2.4 percent to 12.58 euros, halting a three-day slide.  Daimler AG and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG gained 2 percent
to 48.36 euros and 1.4 percent to 71.88 euros, respectively. A
gauge of auto-related shares rose 1.1 percent, for the best
performance on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Commerzbank rallied 4.5 percent to 8.02 euros. Equinet
raised  Germany’s second-largest bank  to buy from sell, saying
that the low price presents an opportunity to buy the shares.
Commerzbank has  tumbled 37 percent  from this year’s high on Jan.
10, while the DAX has gained 8.8 percent.  Medigene AG (MDG)  surged 16 percent to 1.08 euros after saying
that SynCore Biotechnology Co. will acquire a 6.09 percent stake
in the company. SynCore will pay for the phase-three clinical
trial for Medigene’s breast-cancer drug EndoTAG-1.  Praktiker AG tumbled 6.4 percent to 96.4 euro cents, the
lowest price since the retailer held its IPO in 2005.
Commerzbank downgraded  the stock  to sell from reduce, saying
that cold, wet weather has lowered demand for the company’s
products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  