-- Ghana’s Terkper Plans to Halve Wage Burden in Budget
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h   a n d   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-05-27T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/ghana-s-terkper-plans-to-halve-wage-burden-in-budget.html
Ghana  plans to more than halve the
wage burden in its budget in the next two years to help narrow a
ballooning deficit and divert funds to pay for hospitals and
schools, Finance Minister Seth Terkper said.  The government wants to reduce the wage bill to between 30
percent and 35 percent of  tax revenue  by 2015, Terkper said in
an interview in Accra, the capital, on May 23. Salaries
accounted for 72 percent last year, according to budget data.  Ghana is struggling to narrow a budget gap that soared to
12.1 percent of gross domestic product last year, threatening
its B+ credit rating from  Fitch Ratings . Terkper has pledged to
curb the deficit to 9 percent this year.  “We need the fiscal space for important areas such as
health, education and infrastructure,” Terkper said. The budget
must “make room for critical investments,” he said.  The government plans to reduce the wage burden by
collecting more revenue as the economy expands, increasing the
tax base and eliminating “ghost workers” from the employee
roll, he said.  Ghana’s economy, the biggest in West  Africa  after  Nigeria ,
is forecast by the government to expand 8 percent this year,
faster than the 5.3 percent average growth in sub-Saharan Africa
estimated by the  International Monetary Fund . Ghana’s growth
will probably accelerate to 8.7 percent in 2014 and 8.9 percent
in 2015, according to the government.  “As the economy expands, one expects tax collection to
increase,” Terkper said. “We will be tapping new areas in
order to expand the base.”  Eurobond Sale  Ghana, the world’s second biggest cocoa producer and
Africa’s second biggest gold producer, will seek to raise $1
billion in a second Eurobond offer in July to refinance debt as
well as invest in capital and social projects, Terkper said.  Yields on the debut $750 million Eurobonds sold in 2007
have risen 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, this year
to 5.09 percent as of 3:25 p.m. in Accra on May 24. The cedi has
dropped 4.6 percent against the dollar in the period.  Ghana has more than tripled the wage bill for civil
servants to 8.54 billion cedis ($4.3 billion) between 2009 and
2012 as it raised salaries to bring parity to pay grades.  The West African nation needs to spend $2.3 billion a year
on infrastructure projects, including on roads, water and
energy, Peter Quartey, head of the economics department at the
University of Ghana, said on May 9. Annual investment is about
$1.2 billion currently, he said.  Ghana’s failure to narrow its  budget deficit  more quickly
may add to debt, threatening a downgrade of the nation’s B+
rating, Fitch Ratings said in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net ;
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  