-- Global Health Officials Agree on 30% Salt-Reduction Target
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-05-27T12:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/global-health-officials-agree-on-30-salt-reduction-target.html
Health officials from almost 200
countries adopted nine targets for fighting cancer,  heart
disease  and diabetes, and called for curbs on marketing
unhealthy food to children, under a plan to cut the world’s
leading causes of death.  Nations at the World Health Assembly in Geneva agreed to a
target to reduce average daily salt consumption by 30 percent by
2025, to cut smoking rates by 30 percent, and to cut harmful
alcohol use by 10 percent. Other objectives include reducing
inactivity and halting the rise in diabetes and obesity, to meet
a goal adopted last year to reduce deaths from so-called non-communicable disease by 25 percent by 2025.  “That’s a pretty good list,” said Cary Adams, a former
Lloyds Banking Group Plc executive who’s now the chief executive
officer of the Union for International Cancer Control. “If
you’d said three years ago that we’d be setting out those
targets, not many people would have agreed that that was even
possible,” Adams said in an interview in Geneva before the
resolution was formally passed.  Non-communicable diseases account for almost two in three
deaths globally, and may cost the world  $47 trillion  in
productivity losses and medical treatments by 2030, the  World
Economic Forum  and  Harvard University  said in a 2011 study. The
targets adopted today are the first specific goals agreed since
the  United Nations General Assembly   resolved  in 2011 to fight
the illnesses as “a threat to the economies of many  member
states .”  The accord also calls on governments to implement policies
to reduce the impact on children of marketing of foods and soft
drinks that are high in saturated fats, trans-fats, free sugars
and salt.  Voluntary Targets  The objectives were approved by a committee of the World
Health Assembly and must be formally adopted by the full
assembly later today.  While the targets are voluntary, regulatory measures may be
needed in some countries to compel food and drink makers to
comply, Srinath Reddy, president of the World Heart Federation
and the Public Health Foundation of  India , said in an interview
in Geneva.  “Self-regulation alone cannot be the means of preventing
children from being exposed to harmful advertising,” Reddy
said. “The public health community is always very suspicious of
their intent whenever the beverage companies and others come and
say, ’We’re altering our products and we’re intending to have a
healthier product portfolio.’ We’d like to encourage them to do
it, but we hope that that’s not just window dressing.”  Unhealthy Diets  Almost 80 percent of deaths from non-communicable diseases
occur in low- and middle-income countries, spurred by tobacco
use, physical inactivity, alcohol abuse and unhealthy diets,
 according  to the  World Health Organization . The adoption of
unhealthy diets in  developing countries  that were previously
more common in developed countries is contributing to the trend,
according to the WHO.  “It’s no coincidence that the expansion of the junk food
market into the developing world coincides with rising rates of
diabetes in these countries,” said  John Stewart , a campaign
director for Corporate Accountability International, a Boston-based advocacy group.  The WHO recommends less than 5 grams of salt or 2 grams of
sodium per person per day. Americans over 2 years old consume an
average of 3.4 grams of sodium a day, according to the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  Lowering sodium intake too much may increase the risk of
some health problems, the U.S. Institute of Medicine wrote in a
study published May 14.  “The reduction of salt intake in populations is
unavoidably a slow process as technological barriers and food
safety concerns need to be addressed,” said Lisa McCooey,
deputy director general of FoodDrinkEurope, an industry
organization that represents companies including  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,
 Nestle SA (NESN)  and  Unilever NV. (UNA)  “Consumer acceptance of reduced salt
products is critical so allowing for the necessary taste
adaptation over time is key,” she said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  