-- Greece Seeks Legal Opinion on Onassis Heir’s Sale of Island
-- B y   A n t o n i s   G a l a n o p o u l o s
-- 2013-05-27T13:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/greece-seeks-legal-opinion-on-onassis-heir-s-sale-of-island.html
Greece ’s government has sought the
opinion of the country’s legal adviser on the reported sale of
Skorpios island, the private retreat of late shipowner  Aristotle Onassis , to a Russian billionaire by his only surviving heir.  Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras has referred the matter
to the Legal Council of the State to determine whether the sale
is in the public’s best interests, according to a response from
the Athens-based  Finance Ministry  to a question submitted to
Parliament by a lawmaker. The response was dated May 20 and
submitted to Parliament.  New Democracy lawmaker Ioannis Michelakis said Onassis’s
will stipulates that Skorpios, in the Ionian Sea to the
mainland’s northwest, should stay with his descendants as long
as they can afford to maintain it and pass to the state if they
can’t, according to his question to Stournaras.  Athina Onassis de Miranda, Onassis’s granddaughter, is in
the process of selling the island to an unnamed Russian
billionaire, Athens-based To Vima newspaper reported on  April 8 ,
without saying how it got the information. Forbes magazine
reported on  April 15  that the buyer is the family of Dmitry Rybolovlev,  Russia ’s 14th-richest person.  Onassis, who died in 1975 at age 69, specified in his will
that the island should be used as a summer camp for children of
employees of Olympic Airlines SA, the airline he founded, if it
passes out of his family’s control, according to Michelakis. The
tycoon married his second wife,  Jacqueline Kennedy , widow of the
assassinated U.S. president, on Skorpios in 1968. He is buried
on the island along with his sister Artemis, his son Alexander
and daughter Christina, according to the  Onassis Foundation
website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Antonis Galanopoulos in Athens at 
 agalanopoulo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net  