-- Greek Economy Optimism Seen in Yield-Curve Switch
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-05-28T12:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/greek-economy-optimism-seen-in-yield-curve-switch-euro-credit.html
Greece ’s 10-year yield fell below the
rate on its 30-year securities last week for the first time in
almost three years, adding to signs the bond market in the
nation that triggered the euro region’s debt crisis is healing.  The yield curve normalized on May 21 for the first time
since June 2010, signaling investor optimism in the economy is
increasing. The nation’s bonds are the best performers in the
world this quarter, offering more than seven times the return of
their next closest peer. Trading of Greek debt on electronic
secondary securities markets is set this month to be the highest
in at least two years and contracts linked to the nation’s
growth are surging.  After carrying out the biggest sovereign-debt restructuring
in history, Greek bonds have advanced on bets the country will
remain in the 17-nation euro region. The rally got a boost this
month when Fitch Ratings upgraded Greece’s credit rating.  The drop in yields is a sign the “markets have spoken,”
Prime Minister Antonis Samaras said May 23, adding that Greece,
which hasn’t sold bonds since March 2010, may follow Ireland in
regaining access to capital markets while being part of a
bailout program.  Different Now  “Last year, Greek bonds were a play on whether they would
exit the euro, but now it’s very different,” said Gabriel Sterne, a fixed-income economist at Exotix Ltd., a London-based
brokerage specializing in illiquid bonds and loans.
“Fundamental risks are still there, but the triggers for
something disastrous happening are slightly less onerous.”  Exotix upgraded its view on Greek bonds to hold from sell
last week, Sterne wrote in a May 22 note to clients.  “We’re nowhere near there yet, but if yields keep falling,
at some point investment in financial assets could become
investment in physical assets,” Sterne said today in e-mailed
comments.  The 10-year yield dropped below the 30-year rate on May 21
after the spread widened to as much as 759 basis points on May
16, 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg based on
closing prices. A so-called inversion of the yield curve is
considered a sign that investors are more concerned about short-term crises than long-term solvency.  Greek 10-year bonds yielded 8.65 percent at 1:41 p.m.
London time. The rate touched 8.10 percent on May 22, the lowest
since June 10, 2010, down from a post-restructuring high of
30.97 percent on May 31, 2012. Thirty-year bonds yielded 8.35
percent, meaning the yield difference, or  spread , between the
securities was 29 basis points.  Euro Crisis  The rate on Greek 10-year debt compares with the 3.47
percent on Ireland’s 2023 bond, sold in March, and 5.58 percent
for  Portugal ’s 2024 securities, sold through banks on May 7.
Both nations plan to exit their bailout programs in the next
year.  Greece sparked Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis in 2009 after
saying its deficit was bigger than previously thought, reaching
a record 15.8 percent of gross domestic product that year. The
nation’s economy has  contracted  for 19 consecutive quarters as
the government imposed austerity measures to trim the shortfall,
while private bondholders agreed to write off more than 100
billion euros ($129 billion) as part of a restructuring of the
nation’s debt in March 2012.  Junk Rating  Greek government bonds returned 31 percent this quarter
through yesterday, the best-performing securities among the 26
markets tracked by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds slipped 0.5 percent
in the same period, while Italian bonds offered the second-best
returns, adding 4.4 percent.  Greece’s 10-year yield fell 53 basis points on May 15, the
day after Fitch upgraded the nation one level to B- from CCC.
The ratings company said there is a “semblance of political and
social stability” with the government showing more ownership
over its adjustment program and a lower risk of exit from the
euro area. Greece is still six levels below investment grade.  A gauge of Greek manufacturing rose to 45 for April from
42.1 in March,  Markit Economics  said on May 2, indicating the
pace of contraction in the industry is slowing.  “The recent sovereign upgrade, slightly better economic
data and continued commitment to fiscal reforms are supporting
government bonds,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a strategist at RIA
Capital Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh. “Ten-year yields should test
8.5 percent again in coming weeks, with a possible test of 8
percent.”  Debt Trading  Analysts at New York-based Citigroup Inc. said May 22 that
they no longer consider Greece leaving the euro in 2014 as a
base-case scenario, although they said the nation has a fairly
high risk of an exit in coming years.  Trading of Greek government debt through the electronic
secondary securities market, or HDAT, totaled 133 million euros
this month through May 15, set for the highest since at least
June 2011, and compared with 69 million euros for all of April,
 data  from the  Bank of Greece (TELL)  show. Trading slumped to zero in
October 2011 from a peak of 136 billion euros in September 2004,
the data show.  Securities issued in the country’s debt restructuring that
have returns linked to the nation’s economic growth also are
advancing. The so-called GDP warrants on bonds maturing in 2042
climbed to 104 cents on the euro. The securities are one of
Exotix’s “Top-5 global picks,” analysts including Sterne wrote
in a May 22 note.  Greek Economy  The securities, which the Greek government can begin
repaying in 2020, potentially begin to pay out next year if
economic growth exceeds 2.35 percent and the gross domestic
product is more than 210.1 billion euros. By 2021, the economy
must be bigger than 266.5 billion euros with growth of 2 percent
or more for the securities to pay out.  The Greek economy will contract 4.2 percent this year
before growing 0.6 percent in 2014, according to forecasts from
the European Commission. Unemployment climbed to a record 27
percent in February, the Athens-based Hellenic Statistical
Authority said May 9.  “There are some signs of improvements, but the tasks ahead
to regain market confidence are enormous,” said Gianluca Ziglio, executive director of fixed-income research at Sunrise
Brokers LLP in  London . “The market hit 8 percent and then
bounced back sharply. The yield drop was momentum driven and the
market is very thin so it can move very fast one way or the
other when it’s on a roll.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  