-- Grillo Expects Election Showdown With Berlusconi by Year End
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 2013-05-27T16:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/grillo-expects-election-showdown-with-berlusconi-by-year-end-1-.html
Comedian-turned politician Beppe Grillo said he expects his Five Star Movement to face former
premier Silvio Berlusconi this year in an electoral showdown
reminiscent of the final battle of “Highlander,” a film about
an immortal Scottish warrior.  Voters “will have to choose between us or Berlusconi and,
as in Highlander, there can be only one survivor; I hope it
won’t be Berlusconi,” Grillo said in a May 24 interview in
Siena,  Italy .  After winning a quarter of the votes in February elections,
Grillo’s Five Star Movement refused to strike a deal with the
Democratic Party, which won the ballot while falling short of a
majority in the Senate. Eventually the PD opted to form a
coalition government with Berlusconi’s party, keeping Grillo’s
forces from gaining power despite their showing.  Grillo expects that Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s coalition
of rivals won’t last much beyond September with new elections
possible before year end.  Five Star, which was contesting its first national vote,
emerged as the biggest opposition group in the Rome-based
Parliament. A gauge of current backing for the party came today
with the results of voting for local governments in about 500
cities and towns. The PD candidate Ignazio Marino was leading in
the Rome mayoral race with more than 40 percent of the vote, and
the Five Star candidate came in third with almost 13 percent,
projections for state-run RAI television showed.  Criticizing Parties  Grillo, a 64-year-old former stand-up comic and yogurt
 pitchman , had gained support until after the national election
for his party by advocating sovereign debt relief and
challenging the country’s commitment to the euro. He has also
refused to cooperate with the main parties, which he accuses of
being incompetent and corrupt.  Still, backing for Five Star appears to have waned since
the February vote with Berlusconi’s support surging. Five Star
was at 22.6 percent in a May 24 poll of likely voters by
Trieste, Italy-based SWG Institute. That’s down from 25.6
percent in the national vote. Berlusconi’s People of Liberty
Party and its allies polled at 36.2 percent in the survey, up
from 29.2 percent in the Feb. 24-25 vote. The SWG poll also
showed the PD and its allies at 28.9 percent, down from 29.5
percent in February. The margin of error was 2.9 percentage
points.  “We are in a divided country with some 20 million
pensioners and some five million state employees, some of whom
don’t want the change we want,” Grillo said when asked about
Berlusconi’s gains. “Come September or October, there won’t be
enough money for pensions, state employees and unemployment
benefits, because this is what the crisis is about.”  Debt Restructuring  Italy is currently mired in its  longest recession  in more
than two decades and needs to divert about 5 percent of gross
domestic product to service Europe’s second-biggest debt of
about 130 percent of GDP.  “There is no alternative” to debt restructuring, Grillo
said in the interview on the end of a two-week campaign for the
local elections in which he typically held three rallies a day.
“We are buying back the debt held by foreign banks, but as soon
as the amount held abroad falls to 20 percent of total, our
government bonds won’t be appealing anymore.”  Foreigners currently own about 35 percent of Italy’s debt.  “How can a country with over 2.04 trillion euros ($2.6
trillion) of debt and some 100 billion euros yearly of interest
to pay go on without growth?” Grillo said.  Default Risk  The government rejects Grillo’s assertion that Italy risks
bankruptcy by October. There is “no threat of default now, nor
in the future,” Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni said
earlier this month.  Grillo said that a referendum on Italy’s euro membership
could take place within a year.  “I am not against the euro, but I am all in favor of being
informed and hearing all the views, what is the Plan B to
survive in the next five years, and then let’s go and vote on
it,” he said.  Five Star Movement is trying to export its electoral
success by developing relations with other insurgent movements
across Europe, such the Indignados in Spain. Grillo said he
would be willing to join forces with other groups before
European Parliamentary elections scheduled next year.  “Yes, I think that is possible,” he said when asked
whether there could be Five Star lists running at the European
elections in other countries. “I won’t manage them myself, they
may or may not be called Five Star, but they will develop on the
Web and include normal people aimed at replacing politicians
with citizens in the institutions.”  Earning Praise  While Grillo has been rejected by Italy’s ruling political
parties, he has been earning praise from some public figures.  In February billionaire Leonardo Del Vecchio, Italy’s
second-richest man, and U.S. Ambassador David Thorne were among
public figures praising Five Star for its novel approach to
public policy.  “They got curious about us after seeing a movement without
money, made of decent and transparent people becoming in just
three years the country’s biggest political force,” Grillo
said. “Whoever wants to do business here in the future will
have to behave likewise; while nobody wants to invest in a
country like Italy at present, maybe in the future we may give
the Americans, the Chinese or the English a reason to come
here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net 
Flavia Rotondi in Trento at 
 rotondi@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  