-- Iceland Targets New Currency Control Exit Program by September
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-05-28T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/iceland-targets-new-currency-control-exit-program-by-september.html
Iceland’s government plans to unveil
a new plan by September outlining how the island will scale back
currency controls in place since 2008, Prime Minister Sigmundur
D. Gunnlaugsson said.  “It won’t take too long to complete the work,” the
premier, who took over as head of government last week, said
yesterday in an interview in Reykjavik. “We will speed up that
work, which is a collaboration of the central bank and the
government. I expect a special ministerial commission will
review these matters, in conjunction with the central bank.”  Gunnlaugsson, who together with Finance Minister  Bjarni Benediktsson  has pledged to target a swift removal of  capital
controls , made clear this week the nation will need to keep some
restrictions in place to prevent currency speculation. Iceland
is struggling to unwind curbs on the krona that have protected
it from a sell-off since the 2008 financial meltdown. Central
bank Governor Mar Gudmundsson said yesterday a “different
strategy” may now be warranted.  Offshore creditors representing about $8 billion have been
trapped by the capital controls since Iceland tried to seal off
its markets more than four years ago.  The central bank has tried to protect the krona from losses
as controls are gradually unwound by raising  interest rates .
Iceland’s benchmark rate is 6 percent, compared with 0.5 percent
in the  euro zone . The bank earlier this year suspended purchases
of foreign currency, designed to build up reserves, and in
February opted instead for direct currency market interventions.  Debt Forgiveness  Iceland is also asking creditors in the failed banks to
forgive about $3.6 billion in krona-denominated claims to help
take pressure off the currency once controls are phased out.
Without forcing losses on to bondholders, Iceland can’t return
to a currency regime that is guided by market forces,
Gunnlaugsson has said.  Iceland hasn’t shied away from taking extreme measures with
investors in the past. Bondholders in the nation’s biggest banks
were forced to accept an $85 billion default, dwarfing Iceland’s
$14 billion gross domestic product, when the government refused
to bail out the financial industry more than four years ago.  Gunnlaugsson said he has “certain ideas on how to
resolve” the krona overhang that he plans to discuss with the
central bank. He declined to elaborate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 