-- Indian Communist Insurgents Assert Resilience With Ambush
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-05-28T05:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/indian-communist-insurgents-assert-resilience-with-deadly-ambush.html
An ambush of political leaders
in central India that killed 27 people underscored the
resilience of the nation’s left-wing guerrilla movement four
years into a government offensive to stamp out the insurgency.  A police campaign that was escalated in 2009 has killed
about half the senior leadership of the  Communist Party of India 
(Maoist), said N. Manoharan, an academic who researches
insurgencies in India at the Vivekananda International
Foundation. The guerrillas are retreating in the states of West
Bengal, Odisha and Chhattisgarh, scene of the weekend attack,
while they are gaining ground elsewhere, he said.  The rebels “want to prove a point that they’re not in
decline,” Manoharan, who is based in New Delhi, said yesterday.
“The concern is this marks the beginning of a new period of
violence.”  India’s communist insurgents operate across a dozen of 28
states, a swathe of land referred to as the “Red Corridor,”
recruiting locals with the message they won’t benefit from the
exploitation of their land by the state. Rebel bases are
typically located in remote forested regions, some rich in  iron
ore , bauxite and other minerals which the government says could
become the basis of a stronger regional economy.  In the latest spasm of violence, about 300 rebels on May 25
struck a convoy of vehicles carrying senior members of the
Congress party, which leads the federal government, through
Bastar, a guerrilla stronghold in Chhattisgarh. Among people
killed in the deadliest attack by the group in three years were
the party’s state chief, Nand Kumar Patel, and his son.  Better Organized  The Maoists today claimed responsibility for the attack in
a  four-page message  and video-clip sent to reporters, the NDTV
television channel said. The rebels said they targeted Congress
leaders who had supported paramilitary police offensives against
the group, and regretted the deaths of any civilians, according
to the channel.  The insurgents are well armed and more motivated than the
security forces they are battling, said S. Chandrasekharan,
director of the  South Asia Analysis Group , based in New Delhi
The attack was aimed at galvanizing support from sympathizers
and sending a message the rebels can still hit high-profile
targets.  “The government had become complacent,” Chandrasekharan
said. “While there has been a reduction in incidents, the
guerrillas may have just retreated waiting for the right
opportunity. This is a classic tactic.”  Village Force  Violence linked to the Maoist revolt killed a record 1,005
people in 2010, with a growing number of assaults on economic
targets including railways and mining operations. The number of
attacks has fallen over the last three years, according to data
from the  Ministry of Home Affairs . Last year, 415 people died in
the conflict, the lowest since at least 1998.  Chandrasekharan said there should be an investigation into
why Congress party leaders coming back from a rally ahead of a
state election this year were allowed to head into a Maoist-dominated area without a larger police escort.  The rebels blocked roads and exploded landmines to halt the
convoy and then opened fire, police said. Mahendra Karma, the
architect of a villager force called the Salwa Judum that was
used by the state to counter Maoists and which human rights
groups accuse of carrying out atrocities, was also killed.  Karma had survived at least four attempts on his life. The
rebels sang and danced around his body, the Hindustan Times
 reported  yesterday, citing eyewitnesses to the attack.  Rights Abuses  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , who described the left-wing
movement as India’s most serious internal security challenge, has 
pursued a strategy of promoting economic development and armed
counterinsurgency to quell support for the insurrection. Public
pressure for government action against the Maoists grew after
rebels in April 2010 killed 76 policemen in Chhattisgarh, the
deadliest attack on security forces.  Singh’s approach has been undermined by corruption and the
behavior of security forces, according to human rights groups
and analysts including  Nandini Sundar , a professor in sociology
at the Delhi School of Economics, who has written an
anthropological history of Bastar.  In some Maoist areas, police burn villages, rape women and
engage in extra-judicial killings, Sundar said. Money meant for
development is often siphoned off by corrupt officials,
increasing resentment, she said.  Land Rights  Two calls and a text message to the mobile phone of  India ’s
Home Secretary R.K. Singh were not answered. S. Jayaraman,
special secretary on internal security, referred questions to
Singh when contacted. A call and a text message sent to K.S.
Dhatwalia, a spokesman for the Ministry of Home Affairs, were
not returned.  A July report by New York-based Human Rights Watch entitled
“ Between Two Sets of Guns ” laid bare the consequences for
often tribal communities living in zones where the Maoists and
police fight. It blamed security forces for arbitrary arrests
and torture of Maoist supporters, the “soft targets” left
behind when rebels disperse into thick forest cover.  The rebels carry out targeted killings of police, political
figures, and landlords, the advocacy group found. “People’s
courts” hold show trials of suspected informers and order
executions, it said.  India’s Maoists, called Naxalites, take their name from a
group of villages known as Naxalbari in east India where farmers
revolted to gain land ownership in 1967.  The guerrillas say they are fighting for the rights of poor
villagers and tribal communities whose resources are, the rebels
argue, being exploited to propel India’s $1.9 trillion economy
with few benefits for local people.  Efforts to defeat the rebels are being hampered by too few
police, while the absence of roads, schools and hospitals makes
it hard to persuade sympathizers abandon the guerrillas,
Palaniappan Chidambaram said last year when he was the home
minister.  “They are not winning hearts and minds,” Sundar said. The
state’s offensive “is basically just pacification.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  