-- Ingves Says Banks Would Lose Less Than Economy in House Slump
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-05-27T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/ingves-says-banks-would-lose-less-than-economy-in-house-slump.html
Sweden’s banks would suffer less from
a slump in  house prices  than the nation’s economy, according to 
Stefan Ingves, governor of the Riksbank and head of the Basel 
Committee on Banking Supervision.  “The banks’ ability to generate income is good enough that
at least for the foreseeable future” a property market decline
on that scale “won’t, for example, affect banks too much,” he
said yesterday in an interview in  Stockholm . “They would be
able to deal with it. It’s more likely the initial effect will
rather be on consumption or the general economic activity.”  Sweden has forced its biggest banks to hold more capital
than their rivals elsewhere in  Europe , making them resilient to
losses amid concern the nation’s housing market may be
overheated. Ingves has repeatedly voiced concerns that Swedish
consumers are building unsustainable debt burdens that will
leave them vulnerable to a sudden decline in  house prices .
Private debt has now reached a record 174 percent of disposable
incomes, according to the central bank.  Finance Minister  Anders Borg  last week said banks should
gird for higher capital standards and bigger risk weights on
mortgages. The government has argued the measures are needed to
protect taxpayers against financial industry losses. Sweden’s
four biggest banks have assets that are four times the size of
the $500 billion economy.  Stress Test  Stress tests released yesterday by the central bank suggest
stricter regulatory requirements are paying off. A 20 percent
slump in house prices over three years would result in combined
losses of just 21 billion kronor ($3.2 billion) for  Nordea Bank
AB (NDA) , SEB AB,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  and  Swedbank (SWEDA)  AB, the tests
showed.  As properties are typically the asset Swedes tend to sell
last if in financial hardship, it’s the economy that will bear
the brunt of a house price slump as households rein in spending
to keep their homes. In a scenario where prices slump by that
amount, mortgage loan losses would only make up 7.9 percent of
total losses at the banks, setting  Sweden  apart from other
nations such as the U.K.,  Denmark  and the U.S.  “If lending starts to accelerate again, not the least if
it were to accelerate significantly, then we will have to think
about whether we will have to do more,” Ingves said. “We’ve
seen in a number of other countries where they’ve ended up with
trouble that it takes a pretty long time before households cut
the borrowing that they’ve accumulated, and during all of that
time they’ve had problems in one way or another.”  To reduce risk, Swedes should pay off their mortgages more
than twice as quickly as today in 30 to 60 years compared with a
current average of 140 years, Ingves said.  Household Debt  “It would be good if”  household debt  “at least is flat
or even fell a bit over a long time period,” he said.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , Denmark’s largest lender, reported loan
impairment charges of 10 billion kroner ($1.74 billion) at its
Danish retail unit in 2009. Of those, 23 percent were charges
against facilities to retail customers, a number that rose to 27
percent in 2010. In Ireland, losses in a  stress test  by the
central bank projected mortgage losses for the bailed-out banks
at 9.49 billion euros in 2011 to 2013, equivalent to about a
third of the 27.7 billion euros in credit losses in those years.  Borg and the country’s central bank have warned against the
rising consumer debt level, which has grown to 174 percent of
disposable incomes and is estimated by the Riksbank to reach 177
percent in early 2015. While household borrowing growth has
slowed in Sweden since a cap on mortgages was introduced in
2010, growth still stood at an annual 4.6 percent in March.  Building Buffers  Swedish households had the sixth-highest household debt
burden among 18 developed countries at the end of 2011,
according to the Riksbank report, beaten by Denmark, the
Netherlands, Ireland,  Norway  and  Switzerland .  Sweden’s banks have built buffers that exceed Sweden’s
requirement of a core Tier 1 capital ratio above 10 percent this
year and 12 percent by 2015, making them the best-capitalized
major lenders in the European Union. Investors have awarded
them, resulting in lower funding costs, access to markets that
many of their European peers have been shut out of.
Handelsbanken boasts credit default swaps that trade about 10
basis points below the government of  Japan ’s, at about 60 basis
points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In the Riksbank’s worst-case test for the three years
through 2015, Swedish banks would suffer total loan losses of
267 billion kronor, of which only 21 billion kronor would stem
from  mortgage loans  in Sweden and abroad. The lion share of
losses would come from “lending to Swedish non-financial
companies and lending in the Baltic countries as these groups of
borrowers are hit hardest by the weakening of economic
activity,” the Riksbank said.  Swedbank Profit  The test includes a scenario where the $500 billion Swedish
economy contracts 2.5 percent in 2014 and 2.7 percent in 2015,
while economic output in the Baltic nations slumps 6.6 percent
and 6.2 percent, respectively. Output in the other Nordic
countries drops 3.9 percent in 2014 and 1.9 percent in 2015.
House prices in the test plunge 20 percent in all markets where
the banks operate, including the Nordic and Baltic countries.  In the  stress test , all Sweden’s largest banks would post
losses in 2013, 2014 and 2015 apart from Swedbank, which would
have a profit and the lowest total credit losses.  While Nordea is forecast to post a 6.7 billion-krona loss
in 2014, Swedbank would report a 700 million-krona profit,
according to the report. Under Basel II rules, all banks apart
from Nordea would still fulfill the requirement of a 12 percent
core Tier 1 capital ratio by 2015.  “We will probably have to tighten the regulatory framework
continuously in the years ahead but we also don’t want to
trigger a house price crash,” Borg told reporters yesterday.
House prices should ideally not rise more than disposable
incomes going forward, he said.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  