-- Israel Chemicals Calls Government Policies Bad for Investment
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2013-05-27T10:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/israel-chemicals-calls-government-policies-bad-for-investment.html
Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL) , a takeover
target for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc . earlier this year,
said uncertainty surrounding government policies risks driving
away foreign investors.  Potash scrapped its proposed bid two weeks after Israeli
Finance Minister Yair Lapid declared on April 11 that he’d
“adamantly oppose” the fertilizer producer’s sale, which
requires government approval. Lapid also announced he would
reconsider how resource developers are taxed.  “The company is concerned that international investors
might perceive Israel to be less of an attractive market to
invest in due to the current uncertainty in the Israeli economic
environment and because they find the Israeli government to be
unreliable,” Israel Chemicals Communications Manager Amir
Avramovitz said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Potash’s acquisition of the Israeli fertilizer producer,
which mines minerals from the Dead Sea, would have been the
biggest ever in the Middle East and created the world’s biggest
provider of potash, a nutrient that helps crops withstand
drought and strengthens plant root systems.  ICL shares, which had risen 5.3 percent in the first
quarter, have lost 14 percent so far this quarter, compared with
a 1 percent decline in the TA-25 benchmark index as of
yesterday’s close. Concerns over new taxation and regulations
fueled the drop, Gilad Alper, senior analyst at Excellence
Nessuah Brokerage Ltd., said by phone earlier this month.  Revising Agreement  New taxation would mean revising an agreement the
government signed last year with ICL that raised royalties on
annual potash sales to 10 percent from 5 percent. As part of
that accord, ICL also agreed to spend about $1 billion to dredge
salt from evaporation pools that are threatening to flood Dead
Sea hotels nearby.  Analysts have warned that renegotiating this agreement
could be much worse for ICL than losing the tie-up with Potash
Corp.  “It is inexplicable to international investors, and to
ourselves, why the government of  Israel  plans to increase ICL’s
government take” months after signing a contract where it
pledged not to do so, Avramovitz said. “How can we explain
that? What does it say about the government’s commitment?”  In abandoning its proposed bid, Potash said “there must be
receptivity to foreign investment and certainty in the rules
that govern such investment.”  Defends Policies  The Finance Ministry said in an e-mailed statement that its
agreement with ICL didn’t say it couldn’t change its fiscal
policy and therefore government reliability hasn’t been damaged.  “The objective of the committee for natural resources that
the ministry is forming is to define the public’s share in the
resources that belong to them,” the ministry said.  Advocates of higher taxes on large corporations say a
reassessment is fair because individual taxpayers have been
asked to pay more as well. Thousands took to the streets earlier
this month to protest Lapid’s proposed tax increases, calling on
tycoons to share the economic pain. Idan Ofer, Israel’s second-richest man according to  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , controls
Israel Chemicals through his Israel Corp. holding company.  “ICL is the government’s favorite enemy these days,”
Alper said by phone. “It’s extremely popular to fight ICL and
there are many political uncertainties for the company right
now, not the least of which is the possibility it will see its
tax burden increased.”  Other foreign investors have also criticized Israel’s
uncertain business environment.  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  Chief
Executive Officer Charles Davidson said in April that if a
government makes a “practice of retroactively applying taxes
after risk investments are made, at some point you scare off any
future investment.”  Noble has a 36 percent stake in the Tamar gas field off
Israel’s Mediterranean coast, which has an estimated 10 trillion
cubic feet of natural gas and began production on  March 30.
Noble also holds nearly 40 percent of the undeveloped Leviathan
field, Israel’s largest with an estimated 19 trillion cubic feet
of gas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  