-- Liverpool to Fight Off Real Madrid’s Suarez Bid: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-05-27T07:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/liverpool-to-fight-off-real-madrid-s-suarez-bid-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Suarez Tops Shortlist  Liverpool is determined to fight off a 40 million-pound bid
($60.5 million) from Real  Madrid  for striker  Luis Suarez , who
tops the Spanish club’s shortlist of strikers because he is
cheaper than Napoli’s Edinson Cavani, the  Sun reported .  Real has contacted Suarez’s agent, Pere Guardiola, and will
table an offer once new manager  Carlo Ancelotti  severs his links
with current club Paris Saint-Germain and takes over at the
Bernabeu, the newspaper added.  Real Pressure  Real is ready to test Tottenham Hotspur’s determination to
keep hold of Gareth Bale with a “huge offer” for the Welsh
winger, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  The Madrid club is under renewed pressure to sign Bale
after its archrival Barcelona agreed to sign Brazilian forward
Neymar on a five-year contract, the newspaper added. Spurs has
offered Bale an improved contract worth around 150,000 pounds a
week, the Telegraph said.  Falcao to  Monaco ?  Monaco agreed to pay 51 million pounds to sign Atletico
Madrid striker Radamel Falcao, the  Daily Star reported .  “We are expecting Falcao and four or five other players of
his quality,” the Star cited Monaco assistant coach Jean Petit
as saying. “Monaco needs a player like Falcao because he can
help us a lot and he can attract other top players.”  Compensation Costs  Everton may have to pay Wigan Athletic as much as 5 million
pounds in compensation to hire  Roberto Martinez  as its next
manager, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Martinez has no fixed compensation figure in his rolling
contract, giving Wigan owner David Whelan the upper hand in
negotiations, the newspaper said. Martinez will tell Whelan
early this week that he wants to move and succeed  David Moyes  at
Everton, the Mirror added  Gunners Want Grenier  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  confirmed his interest in
signing Lyon’s Clement Grenier, the  Daily Mail reported .  Grenier, 22, has been likened to former Gunners midfielder
Samir Nasri in style and would cost about 8 million pounds, the
newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  