-- Kerry Meets Russia Foreign Minister in Push for Syria Peace
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-05-27T20:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/kerry-meets-russia-foreign-minister-in-push-for-syria-peace.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
and his Russian counterpart  Sergei Lavrov  met in Paris this
evening to coordinate international efforts to bring both sides
in the Syrian civil war to peace talks.  The diplomats said they discussed possible participants at
an international peace conference they’ve proposed to seek
negotiations toward a cease-fire and a transitional Syrian
government.  The U.S. and Russia are “deeply committed” to making the
peace conference work, Kerry told reporters after the meeting.  “We concentrated on the need to determine the participants
in the conference, first of all from the Syrian side -- the
government and the opposition groups,” Lavrov said.  The diplomats also discussed whether to expand the group of
other countries “to include all key outside players who have
influence on the situation on the ground,” Lavrov said. Russia
has proposed including  Iran  in a peace conference. Countries
supporting the Syrian rebel forces didn’t reach an agreement on
Iran’s participation when they met in  Jordan  last week.  “The chances for success are there,” Lavrov said. “We
will do everything in our power to use those chances to make
them realized.”  Kerry said the men also “discussed our mutual concerns
about any potential use of chemical weapons and the need to
really get the evidence and ascertain what has happened.”  Syria Dominating  Tonight’s discussion was the third meeting between the two
top diplomats this month, and the sixth so far this year, with
the Syrian crisis dominating their discussions.  The U.S. and  Russia  are seeking to persuade Syria’s
government and rebels to come together in Geneva next month to
agree on a cease-fire and establish a transitional government.
The fighting between forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad
and rebels has taken at least 70,000 lives and created more than
1.5 million refugees, the United Nations estimates.  While Assad’s government has agreed to attend an
international conference next month aimed at ending the 26
months of conflict in the country, opposition forces haven’t yet
chosen their new leadership and haven’t pledged to participate.  Pressure has been building in Washington among some
congressional Democrats and Republicans for the U.S. to do more
militarily to stop the bloodshed, with calls for providing
weaponry to the rebels and to establish a no-fly zone.  Opposition Support  The U.S. and its allies will expand support for the Syrian
rebels and consider all options short of deploying American
troops if diplomacy doesn’t halt a bloody civil war, Kerry said
last week at a conference in Amman, Jordan.  Senator  John McCain , an  Arizona  Republican, today crossed
the Turkish border and went into Syria, spokesman  Brian Rogers 
said, without disclosing details. The trip was reported earlier
today by the Daily Beast website. McCain backs increasing
support for the rebels.  Russian Foreign Ministry spokesman Alexander Lukashevich
last week accused Syrian opposition groups of trying to sabotage
U.S.-Russian efforts to broker a peace deal.  “They are doing
everything to quash the idea of this conference,” he said in
televised comments.  Assad Ties  Russia, whose ties to the Assad dynasty date back decades,
has its only military base outside the former  Soviet Union  in
Syria and has supplied the Syrian government with billions of
dollars in weapons in recent years. Russia has vetoed three
European-drafted UN Security Council resolutions condemning the
Syrian government’s crackdown on opponents, arguing that rebels
were equally to blame for the violence. Russia has accused the
U.S. and its allies of seeking regime change in  Syria .  While Russia and the U.S., along with other powers, last
year agreed in principle to UN-brokered guidelines to end the
conflict, the plan never went anywhere because Syria’s warring
parties didn’t put down their arms to negotiate a transition.  Kerry and Lavrov announced on May 7 that they’d try to
bring representatives of Assad’s government and rebels together
for talks in the coming weeks in Geneva.  French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius has raised the issue
of lifting the European Union’s arms embargo on Syrian rebels,
while saying guarantees aren’t yet in place to ensure weapons
don’t fall into the hands of extremists.  EU members didn’t reach agreement on lifting the embargo
today, Interfax reported, citing Fabius. Countries have “no
agreement” on supplying weapons to Syrian opposition, he said
after EU’s 27 foreign ministers ended talks in Brussels,
according to Interfax.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  