-- Rutgers’s Hermann Won’t Quit After Tennessee Abuse Claims
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2013-05-28T13:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/n-j-governor-plans-to-meet-with-rutgers-officials-about-hermann.html
Julie Hermann said she won’t quit as
Rutgers University athletic director after what she called
“heartbreaking” allegations that she humiliated and
emotionally abused players when she was women’s volleyball coach
at the University of Tennessee in the 1990s.  Hermann said she was never notified of a letter 15 former
Tennessee players submitted to school officials in 1997
describing her “mental cruelty” before she was replaced as
coach. The letter  was detailed  in the Star-Ledger of  Newark , New
Jersey, this weekend.  “I am truly sorry that some were disappointed during my
tenure as coach,” Hermann said in a statement yesterday. “For
sure, I was an intense coach, but there is a vast difference
between high intensity and abusive behavior.”  Hermann was hired by Rutgers on May 15 to replace Tim Pernetti, who stepped down last month amid questions about his
handling of evidence that former men’s basketball coach Mike Rice physically and verbally abused players. Hermann, 49, spent
the past 16 seasons in athletic administration at the University
of Louisville before agreeing to join Rutgers as the first
female athletic director in school history. She is due to start
in the role June 17.  “If it is clear that the newly hired AD misrepresented
herself to Rutgers, yes, she should go,” Catherine Lugg, a
professor in Rutgers’s graduate school of education, said in an
e-mail.  ‘Massive Failure’  If the Star-Ledger report is correct, the athletic director
search process has been “a massive failure” for a school that
needs “leaders who are as terrific as our students and
alumni,” Lugg said.  “As a member of the Rutgers family, I am just mortified,”
Lugg said. “Rutgers is a world-class university, but it looks
like we’re being led by inattentive amateurs, who would rather
command then lead.”  New Jersey Governor Chris Christie is aware of the Star-Ledger report and will meet with officials at Rutgers this week
to get details, spokesman  Michael Drewniak  said in an e-mail.  “He was not involved at all in the selection of the new
athletic director and has never met her,” Drewniak said. “He’s
not going to make any judgments at this time.”  Christie is scheduled to join with U.S. President  Barack Obama  today in a tour of New Jersey beach towns rebuilding after
damage from  Hurricane Sandy  in October.  ‘Leadership Role’  Hermann said on a conference call yesterday that she hasn’t
considered stepping down from the Rutgers post. She said in her
statement that she intends to take her passion and experience as
an advocate for student athletes “into my leadership role as
athletic director of Rutgers University.”  When Hermann was hired, she faced questions about a
$150,000 jury verdict awarded to a former  Tennessee  assistant
who claimed Hermann fired her because she became pregnant. The
allegations of emotional abuse from former players weren’t known
at the time, the Star-Ledger reported.  Hermann coached at Tennessee from 1992-97 before being
moved into a different role in the athletic department. She
joined the U.S. national women’s volleyball team as an assistant
six months later before being hired at Louisville.  Pernetti stepped down on April 5 after the incident
involving Rice, who was fired by the school three days after the
national telecast of a video showed him punishing players by
throwing balls at their heads in practice and attacking them
with vulgarities and gay slurs.  Pernetti Action  Pernetti, with the support of Rutgers President Robert Barchi, initially suspended Rice in December after the school’s
former director of player development made him aware of the
coach’s behavior. Christie was among those critical of Pernetti,
asking why Rice hadn’t been fired in December.  Barchi is a neurologist and former provost of the
University of Pennsylvania. Since becoming the school’s 20th
president, he has set about implementing Christie’s directive to
reorganize the state’s higher education system, including the
merger of Rutgers and the state medical school.  State funding for Rutgers, New Jersey’s flagship public
university, fell 10 percent to $262 million in the three fiscal
years through June 2012. The school’s subsidy to sports programs
was $28.5 million in fiscal 2011, the largest among 54 U.S.
public universities in the six biggest football conferences,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tom Jurich, athletic director at Louisville,  told ESPN  that
Hermann was a model administrator during her time at the school,
where she was senior executive associate athletic director.  “In 15 1/2 years, I never had one problem,” Jurich said.
“She did impeccable work for us. No one has said anything the
past 15 years. She is beloved here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  