-- Norway Unemployment Unexpectedly Rises as Euro Crisis Weighs
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2013-05-27T08:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/norway-unemployment-unexpectedly-rises-as-euro-crisis-weighs.html
Norway ’s jobless rate rose to the
highest level in three years as a recession in  Europe  weighs on
expansion in western Europe’s largest oil producer.  Unemployment rose to 3.7 percent in the March quarter from
a revised 3.6 percent in the prior period, Oslo-based  Statistics
Norway  said today. Unemployment was seen at 3.5 percent,
according to the average of seven economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Norway’s central bank has kept  interest rates  at a near-record low of 1.5 percent for more than a year to support an
economic recovery and protect exporters from currency gains. In
March, policy makers signaled the possibility of a further cut
as inflation remained well below its 2.5 percent target.  “The data may indicate that the likelihood of a near-term
rate cut from Norges Bank has increased somewhat, but we
maintain our view of an unchanged signal rate by Norges Bank
going forward,” Ole Andre Kjennerud, an analyst at DNB ASA,
said in a note to clients.  Weaker demand caused Norway’s exports to fall 5.9 percent
in April. Norsk Hydro ASA, Europe’s third-largest aluminum
maker, and other exporters are also struggling with a stronger
krone, which has raised the cost of Norwegian sales abroad.
Gross domestic product, excluding oil, gas and shipping, grew
0.7 percent in the first quarter, missing economists’ estimates.
Total economic output shrank 0.2 percent, compared with a 0.3
percent growth estimate.  Norges Bank estimates  unemployment (NOLBRATE)  will average 3.25
percent this year and next. Policy makers next meet on June 20
to set interest rates.  The krone rose 0.1 percent to 7.5365 per euro as of 10:35
a.m. in Oslo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  