-- Notre Dame Quarterback Golson Is Suspended From School for 2013
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-27T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/notre-dame-quarterback-golson-is-suspended-from-school-for-2013.html
Quarterback Everett Golson, who
started 11 games as a redshirt freshman for the University of
 Notre Dame  football team that played for the national
championship last season, was suspended by the school for poor
academic judgment.  Golson will miss the 2013 season and said in a statement he
wants to regain his eligibility at Notre Dame by 2014.  “I take full responsibility for my poor choices and will
do all that is asked of me to regain the trust of my family,
friends, teammates, coaches and the entire Notre Dame
community,” Golson said, according to the statement.  Golson helped Notre Dame go 12-0 during the regular season
last year before losing to the  University of Alabama  in the Bowl
Championship Series title game. Golson passed for 2,405 yards,
12 touchdowns and six interceptions while rushing for 298 yards
and six scores.  “At this point, I understand how my integrity could be in
question but I want to reassure my supporters that through this
experience I will return a better student athlete as well as a
better individual,” Golson said, without being specific about
the nature of his mistakes.  Golson’s suspension comes a month after former Notre Dame
quarterback Gunner Kiel transferred to the University of
Cincinnati. Senior Tommy Rees has made 18 career starts for
Notre Dame while junior Andrew Hendrix and freshman Malik Zaire
are the other quarterbacks on the roster.  Without Golson, Notre Dame’s odds of winning the national
title next season moved to 40-1, according to the Las Vegas
Hotel’s Super Book. The Fighting Irish had been listed at 30-1,
tied for 11th among teams at college football’s top level.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  