-- Obama’s Dangerous Contempt for the Rule of Law
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-05-27T22:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/obama-s-dangerous-contempt-for-the-rule-of-law.html
Whatever the investigation into
misconduct at the  Internal Revenue Service  reveals, we already
have all the evidence we need to understand President  Barack Obama ’s fundamental attitude toward the rule of law. That
evidence is right there in the public record, and what it shows
is indifference and contempt.  The Constitution gives the president the power to appoint
officials to fill vacancies when the Senate isn’t in session. In
2012, Obama made such “recess appointments” to the  National
Labor Relations Board  and the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau -- even though the Senate had stayed in session precisely
to keep him from doing so.  Obama’s lawyers argued that the Senate wasn’t really in
session even though it claimed to be: It was going through the
motions to block Obama, but it wasn’t taking up bills or
nominations. No previous president had ever tried this maneuver,
and an appeals court has just ruled that it was
unconstitutional.  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, the
sweeping health-care law that Obama signed in 2010, asks state
governments to set up health exchanges, and authorizes the
federal government to provide tax credits to people who use
those exchanges to get insurance. But most states have refused
to establish the online marketplaces, and both the tax credits
and many of the law’s penalties can’t go into effect until the
states act.  Obama’s IRS has decided it’s going to apply the tax credits
and penalties in states that refuse, even without statutory
authorization. During the recent scandal over the IRS’s
harassment of conservative groups, many Republicans have warned
that the IRS can’t be trusted with the new powers that the
health law will give the agency. They are wrong about the verb
tense: It has already abused those powers.  Overriding Objections  Another provision of the health law authorized the
secretary of Health and Human Services,  Kathleen Sebelius , to
require employers to cover preventive services in their
insurance policies. She decided that almost all employers would
have to cover contraception, sterilization and possibly
abortion-causing drugs, such as Ella, whether or not the
employers objected on religious grounds.  That edict flew in the face of the Religious Freedom
Restoration Act, which stipulated that the government can
override religious conscience only when it is the least
restrictive means of furthering a compelling interest.
Republican senators had  warned  Sebelius of this issue before she
imposed the rule. She has admitted that even after their letter,
her department imposed it without either requesting a legal
analysis from the  Justice Department  or  producing  its own memo.
Most judges who have ruled on this issue, including some
Democratic appointees, have found that the regulation does
violate the law.  Last summer, Obama directed immigration agencies not to
deport some illegal immigrants who were brought to America as
children, and to give them work-authorization permits. In
effect, he implemented much of the DREAM Act that Congress has
long debated, but never enacted. Defenders of this action said
he was merely prioritizing scarce law-enforcement resources, but
that excuse won’t wash: It would mean that a future Republican
president could announce, for example, that he isn’t going to
burden the bureaucracy with collecting capital-gains taxes.  Even if Obama were right about these policies -- and I’m
sympathetic to the goal of the  DREAM Act  -- he went about them
the wrong way, disregarding laws he swore to execute. Complaints
about Republican obstructionism are no excuse. Even if the
Republicans are behaving badly, they have at least acted
lawfully in opposing the president.  Defying Constraints  Obama is not, of course, the first president to flout the
law. His supporters will surely respond to this litany by
repeating the charge that President  George W. Bush  “shredded”
the Constitution. The  Bush administration  claimed that the
Constitution gave the president powers as commander-in-chief,
trumping laws that tried to restrict his ability to protect
national security. It was a debatable, but not frivolous,
argument.  Obama is making no similar constitutional claim, and his
defiance of constraints on his power isn’t confined to one area
of policy. Again and again, he has imposed liberal policy
preferences rather than follow the law.  In 2011, Obama was asked why he hadn’t imposed the DREAM
Act unilaterally. “America is a nation of laws, which means I,
as the president, am obligated to enforce the law,” he
responded. “There are enough laws on the books by Congress that
are very clear in terms of how we have to enforce our
immigration system that for me to simply through executive order
ignore those congressional mandates would not conform with my
appropriate role as president.” That Obama was right.  The president’s routine violation of the law that he is
supposed to uphold isn’t covered in the media as a scandal. It
ought to be.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute  and a senior editor
at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  