-- Oi Advised to Raise Cash While Ending Dividend: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-05-27T17:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/oi-advised-to-raise-cash-while-ending-dividend-corporate-brazil.html
Oi SA should stop paying dividends
and become more aggressive in raising cash, according to the
most accurate analyst monitoring the worst-performing
telecommunications company in the Americas.  The company’s cash balance has dropped 67 percent from a
year earlier to 5.08 billion reais ($2.51 billion), while net
debt surged 63 percent to 27.5 billion reais, at the biggest
Brazilian provider in an industry dominated by foreigners.
Further deterioration may compel Oi to sell stock or even, in an
extreme case, its wireless or landline units, said the analyst,
Andres Medina-Mora of Corporativo GBM SAB.  Oi Chief Financial Officer Alex Zornig vowed in an e-mail
to continue paying the highest dividend yield among global
telecommunications providers, totaling 4 billion reais through
2014, as long as earnings keep pace with debt. Rio de Janeiro-based Oi is also investing 6 billion reais this year, the most
among its local peers as a percentage of sales, further draining
cash reserves.  “It’s very important for the company to start to make some
changes in strategy and generate  cash flow , recurring or not,
and return to stability,” said Medina-Mora, who is based in Sao
Paulo. “If they continue to spend more time not doing anything
they will reach a very complicated point.”  His recommendations to sell Oi in August before switching
to a neutral rating in November generated a return of 6.4
percent in the past 12 months, the  best  among five analysts
tracked by Bloomberg. That compares to a 4.3 percent increase
for the benchmark Bovespa index. Oi rose 0.2 percent to 4.56
reais in Sao Paulo trading at 2:18 p.m.  Cash Generation  “Oi has produced cash generation to address its needs,”
Zornig said in an e-mailed response to questions last week.
“Ebitda growth will be used as a source of financing for its
operations and shareholder rewards. Beyond that, the company
continues to work on the sale or monetization of non-strategic
assets.”  Oi’s Ebitda, or earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization, rose 6.6 percent to 2.15 billion reais last
quarter from a year earlier.  Oi’s dividends may be difficult to cut because the
company’s controlling group needs the money, Susana Salaru and
Gregorio Tomassi, analysts at Itau BBA SA, said in a May 8
research note. The investor group, known as TmarPart, has about
3.5 billion reais in debt and paid 355 million in financial
costs last year -- almost exactly the amount it received in
dividend payments from Oi, the analysts said.  Shareholder Structure  Investors are concerned that “Oi’s current shareholder
structure does not seem to be sustainable,” Salaru and Tomassi
wrote. The controlling group may seek a capital increase through
Oi, they said.  TmarPart’s owners include Brazil’s Jereissati and Andrade
Gutierrez families, along with development bank BNDES and
pension funds for state-run companies such as  Banco do Brasil
SA. (BBAS3)  That backing, plus government support of Oi’s acquisition of
Brasil Telecom SA in 2010, led Barclays Capital Plc to describe
the company as the nation’s “national champion,” set up to
compete against foreign carriers.  Zornig said he couldn’t comment on decisions that are up to
shareholders. A spokesman from FSB Comunicacoes declined to
comment on Oi’s dividend and cash-flow situation on behalf of
the Andrade Gutierrez family and TmarPart, as did a spokesman
for the Banco do Brasil fund. E-mail and phone requests for a
comment from the Jereissati family weren’t answered.  Portuguese Experience  The investors have sought strategic help from abroad,
permitting Portugal Telecom SGPS SA to acquire a stake in
TmarPart in 2011. The Lisbon-based company’s sales in its home
country dropped 6.8 percent from a year earlier, and its net
debt is more than three times earnings. A Portugal Telecom press
official didn’t return phone and e-mail messages seeking comment
on Oi.  In its first-quarter report, Oi said its ratio of net debt
to earnings, a measure of liquidity, was 3.05, and said it aims
to have it under 3 by the end of June to allow it to approve a
dividend in August. Telefonica Brasil SA and  Tim Participacoes
SA (TIMP3)  have ratios of less than 1, indicating stronger balance
sheets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Oi is having to outspend peers to improve network quality.
Its investment budget for the year represents 21 percent of
sales, higher than Tim’s 18 percent and Telefonica’s 16 percent,
according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. In 2011
and 2012, Oi was fined 122 times -- compared with 33 for Tim and
26 for Telefonica -- by regulator Anatel for failing to meet
requirements for modernizing and expanding services.  Investment Level  Most of Oi’s investments will be to expand its coverage
area and to boost network speeds, Zornig said.  “The commitment of the company is to maintain a strong
level of investment to support the growth strategy mapped out
for this year,” he said.  Oi’s board approved a plan last year that includes 1
billion reais of dividend payments each August and after each
annual shareholder meeting for 2013 and 2014. Oi’s projected
dividend yield over the next 12 months is 23.5 percent, compared
with 7.4 percent for Telefonica and 3.9 percent for Tim.  Operations Focus  “The company can attain its dividend objective, but it
should be more focused on operations,” said Eduardo Roche, an
investment analyst at Rio de Janeiro-based Modal Asset
Management, which manages 600 million reais, including Oi
shares. “They have spent the last two years investing less than
what was necessary.”  Shares of Oi have fallen 45 percent this year through last
week, compared with an 11 percent gain for Telefonica and a 3.7
percent increase for Tim. Chief Executive Officer Francisco Valim was fired in January and replaced by Jose Carneiro da Cunha.  Oi has already committed to some asset sales.  Brazil ’s
antitrust agency, Cade, this week  approved  the sale of rights to
use 4,000 phone-line towers to Providence Equity Partners Inc.
and GP Investments Ltd. That transaction was expected to bring
in 1 billion reais, Zornig said in April.  While companies have to rent towers they have sold, their
margins can improve because they spend less on maintenance, said
Alex Pardellas, a Rio de Janeiro-based analyst at CGD
Securities.  “Our recommendation for Oi is a buy as a long-term bet,”
Pardellas said. “We expected a fall after the departure of
Valim, but the drop was very steep.”  Oi also has about 6,000 wireless towers and real estate it
can still sell, Zornig said. That will shore up the company
until it starts generating cash from operations in 2015, he
said.  Still, Oi may have to consider more extreme measures if its
cash continues to erode, Medina-Mora said.  Oi is facing “tough decisions,” he said. “This is not
the moment to pay out those dividends.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in  Sao Paulo  at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  