-- Oil-Price Manipulation May Affect Millions, EU Official Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-05-27T11:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/oil-price-manipulation-may-affect-millions-eu-official-says.html
Millions of people may be affected by
the suspected oil-price manipulation being probed by the
European Union, according to EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin
Almunia ’s most senior aide.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Statoil ASA (STL)  and Platts, the
commodities price reporting company, earlier this month said
they are being investigated after the European Commission, the
EU’s antitrust authority, conducted raids at the companies’
offices to collect possible evidence of collusion.  The behavior under scrutiny “can potentially affect
millions of Europeans,” Alexander Italianer, the EU antitrust
watchdog’s top official, said in a May 24 speech in Dublin
 published  on the authority’s website today. “Our goal here is
to make sure that these companies have not colluded to
manipulate the prices for oil and biofuel products or prevented
other companies from participating in the price-assessment
process.”  EU antitrust regulators arrived unannounced May 14 at
Platts as well as at  oil companies  in its investigation into
possible collusion by traders. Platts, whose U.K. operations at
 Canary Wharf  are in the same building as BP offices, provided
data and is cooperating with the inquiry. It continues to
publish benchmark prices including North Sea Dated Brent,
against which more than half the world’s crude is valued.  Platts, a unit of New York-based  McGraw Hill Financial
Inc. (MHFI) , provides benchmark assessments on physical markets, using
data on actual trades and its own editorial judgment. Bloomberg
LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with Platts and other
companies in providing energy markets news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in London via 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  