-- TOP Oil Market News: WTI Extends Losing Streak on China Economy
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-05-27T06:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/top-oil-market-news-wti-extends-losing-streak-on-china-economy.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  WTI Extends Losing Streak as China Signals It May Slow Growth  West  Texas  Intermediate crude fell for a fifth day, the
longest run of declines this year, as  China  signaled it may
allow slower economic growth. OPEC is expected to keep supply
unchanged at a meeting this week.  TOP OIL MARKET NEWS  Hedge Fund Bulls Boost Oil Bets to 14-Month High: Energy Markets  Hedge funds  raised bullish bets on crude to the highest
level in more than a year with the approach of the U.S. Memorial
Day weekend, a holiday marking the start of the summer months
when demand for motor fuels typically rises.  Oil-Fixing Probe Has Platts Wary Trades May Go Under Radar (1)  Platts, the commodities price reporting company whose
London office was raided last week as part of a European Union
antitrust probe, said stricter regulation may inadvertently
reduce transparency should oil market participants choose to
keep transactions private.  Libya’s NOC Exported 37.3 Million Barrels of Crude Oil in April  Libya’s refineries processed 4.36m bbl in April, state-run
National Oil Corp. said in posting in website.  Korea Western Seeks to Buy 60,000 Tons of Fuel Oil for June  Korea Western Power Co. seeks to buy two cargoes of 30,000
mt each for delivery June 14-18 and June 26-30, according to a
statement on its website dated May 24  Sudanese Presidents Agree on Border Dispute to Speed Oil Exports  South Sudanese oil may arrive at Sudan’s Red Sea port by
the end of this month after the two nations’ leaders met
yesterday to resolve border issues that delayed the resumption
of exports, Sudan’s Foreign Minister Ali Karti said.  Gulf Coast Crudes Weaken During Low-Volume Rollover Period  U.S. Gulf Coast crude oils weakened on the  spot market  on
the last day of the rollover period, characterized by below-normal volume and erratic pricing.  Oil Options Volatility Declines as Futures Are Little Changed  Crude oil options volatility fell for a second day as the
underlying futures were little changed.  OPEC  OPEC May Keep Target as Oil Demand Set to Rise, al-Husseini Says  OPEC may leave the group’s output target unchanged at
Friday’s meeting in Vienna because increased demand in the next
few months will help maintain the commodity’s price, a local
energy analyst said.  Saudi Arabia May Need to Make OPEC Cut to Stabilize Prices, NCB  Saudi Arabia may need to persuade OPEC members to cut
output to help keep  oil prices  above $100 level through the rest
of the year, according to the Kingdom’s largest lender by assets
 National Commercial Bank .  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Idemitsu Kosan Says it Started Chiba No. 2 Crude Unit May 25  Refiner started CDU after maintenance, says company
official who asked not to be identified citing internal policy  YPF to Boost Output After Repairs to Burnt La Plata Refinery  YPF restarted furnace on May 24, co. said in e-mailed
statement.  BP West Coast Refinery Releases Unknown Amount of Sulfur Dioxide  An unknown amount of sulfur dioxide was released from the
BP West Coast Products refinery in Blaine,  Washington ,
yesterday, according to a report on the National Response
Center’s website.  Northern Tier Shuts Units at St. Paul Park Refinery: NRC  Shutdown of “a number of process units” at refinery
caused by a May 24 “power dip,” according to report on
National Response Center’s website.  Shell Reports Unit Startup at Scotford Plant in Alberta  Royal Dutch Shell Plc restarting unit at Scotford complex
in  Alberta , Canada, according to message left on community hot
line at 11am local time today.  MORE: Valero Says McKee Refinery Plans to Restart Soot Blowers  Valero Energy Corp.’s McKee refinery in Texas reported
anticipated emissions from the fluid catalytic cracker related
to the startup of soot blowers,  Bill Day , Co. spokesman, said by
e-mail.  BP Said to Move Whiting Crude-Unit Conversion Target to June (1)  BP Plc has moved to June from May its target for completing
the conversion of the largest U.S. Midwest refinery to process
mostly heavy Canadian oil, a person familiar with operations
said.  Irving Saint John Refinery Restarting Cat Cracker, ENT Says  Irving Oil Ltd.’s Saint John refinery in New Brunswick,
Canada, is restarting a 70,000 b/d residual catalytic cracker
after an upset overnight, Energy News Today reports.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Rise 27.8 %  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline,  jet fuel  or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the  Middle East  to
 Japan  rose 27.8 percent to 10.48 U.S. cents yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Caribbean Should Trade Venezuelan Oil for Homegrown Sun: View  Still recovering from last year’s  Hurricane Sandy  and the
2008 financial crisis, many Caribbean countries now face another
threat: the possible curtailment of Petrocaribe, a Venezuelan
program that has kept their economies afloat with deals on
discounted oil.  Reliance Surges on Gas Discovery in Biggest Field: Mumbai Mover  Reliance Industries Ltd., operator of the world’s largest
oil refining complex, headed for its biggest gain in eight
months after discovering a new natural gas deposit in its
biggest block off India’s east coast.  Merkel Says Will Work to Ease China Conflict Over Solar Energy  German chancellor comments to reporters in Berlin today at
a joint press conference with Chinese Premier Li Keqiang.  Origin Energy Said to Consider Singapore Exit Amid Restructuring  Origin Energy Ltd., Australia’s biggest electricity
retailer, is considering whether to shut its Singapore office as
part of restructuring announced in February, according to three
people with knowledge of the matter.  Australia May Lose LNG Projects Unless Costs Fall, APPEA Says  Australia may lose A$100 billion ($96.5 billion) of
potential liquefied natural gas projects to East Africa and
 North America  unless costs in the nation are reduced, according
to an industry group.  Japan Power Use Signals More Active Factories: Chart of the Day  Japan’s industrial production probably expanded for a fifth
straight month, based on data that shows electricity demand by
manufacturers has rebounded since falling to an eight-year low
in February, excluding a period during the global financial
crisis.  NTPC Coal Imports Said to Double on Shortage: Corporate India  NTPC Ltd., Asia’s second-biggest power utility by value,
will almost double purchases of coal from outside India this
fiscal year to curb fuel shortages at its plants, said two
company officials familiar with the plans.  Storms, Tornadoes May Sweep South Dakota, Nebraska This Week  Severe thunderstorms and possibly tornadoes may strike
parts of South Dakota and  Nebraska  this week, according to the
U.S. Storm Prediction Center.  Crude Trapped as Canadians Join U.S. Blocking Pipelines: Energy  British Columbia, the Canadian province whose official
slogan to its own beauty is “Super, Natural,” is invoking
another saying: “No more supertankers.”  OTHER MARKETS  Asian Stocks Drop for Fifth Day as Yen Strengthens, Oil Declines  Asian stocks headed for their longest losing streak since
November and the yen strengthened as Japan’s top central banker
indicated the nation can cope with higher rates and China’s
President  Xi Jinping  signaled a tolerance for slower economic
growth. The Australian dollar and oil fell.  Yen Strengthens Amid Concern Kuroda Struggling to Cap JGB Yields  The yen strengthened against all its major peers amid
concern the  Bank of Japan  is struggling to control the nation’s
bond yields through monetary stimulus.  Singapore Losing Most Since ’12 Amid China Slowdown: Currencies  Singapore’s dollar is suffering its biggest losses in a
year as Asia’s economic slowdown confounds local policy makers
whose priority is controlling inflation.  One Fifth of Japanese Stocks Retreat 25% From 52-Week High  Some 822 of the 3,730 stocks listed in Japan have declined
more than 25 percent from their one-year highs, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gold Bets Reach Five-Year Low With Prices Whipsawed: Commodities  Hedge funds are the least bullish on gold in more than five
years as speculation about the pace of money printing by central
banks whipsawed prices, driving volatility to a 17-month high.  Sumitomo Sees Record Japan Nickel Exports Adding to Glut (1)  Nickel exports from Japan may climb to a record this year
as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s stimulus hasn’t spurred demand in
the third-biggest user, adding to a global glut, the country’s
top producer said.  Republicans Denounce Obama’s Stand to Winnow U.S. War on Terror  Republican lawmakers denounced Democratic President  Barack
Obama ’s plan for winding down the U.S. war on terror, calling it
a misguided approach that undermines national security.  Rockets Hit Lebanon as Nasrallah Vows Victory in Syrian Conflict  Rockets slammed into a Hezbollah stronghold outside  Beirut ,
injuring at least four people, hours after the Lebanese militant
group’s leader declared he could mobilize thousands of fighters
to help Syria’s rulers beat an insurgency.  SPORTS  Boo Weekley Wins Crowne Plaza Invitational on Golf’s PGA Tour  Boo Weekley won the Crowne Plaza Invitational by one shot,
ending a five-year wait for a third title on golf’s U.S. PGA
Tour.  India’s Cricket Chief Rejects Calls to Quit After Arrest of Kin  N. Srinivasan, president of the board that runs the world’s
richest cricket tournament, rejected calls for his resignation
after a relative was arrested by the police for betting on the
outcome of games.  England Takes Control of Cricket Test After New Zealand Slump  England took control on day three of the second cricket
Test after dismissing  New Zealand  for 174 in its first innings.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  