-- More Is Less With Proposed Iran Sanctions
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-27T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/more-is-less-with-proposed-iran-sanctions.html
If U.S. and European nuclear
negotiators hoped a more tractable government would emerge in
 Iran  after presidential elections in June, those hopes have
faded. Election authorities have disqualified two maverick
candidates; the remaining eight are in the conservative camp of
Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.  Under Khamenei, Iran has shown limited interest in
multilateral negotiations to restrict its nuclear program.
Meanwhile, according to a new International Atomic Energy Agency
report, the country has  expanded its capacity  to produce
enriched uranium and plutonium, both of which can fuel bombs.  Seen in that context, legislation being considered by the
U.S. House of Representatives to increase already strong
sanctions on Iran might seem prudent and appropriate. Promoting
the measure before the Foreign Affairs Committee he leads, the
bill’s sponsor, Republican Ed Royce of  California , rightly 
argued  that preventing Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons is of
the highest priority. Royce also said, “We have to play every
card and pull every lever we have.”  Actually, as  Kenny Rogers advises , that’s no way to play
cards. It’s also a recipe for diplomatic failure.  Yes, piling sanction on top of sanction has increased the
cost to Iran of pursuing its nuclear program in  violation  of its
IAEA obligations. Targeted sanctions have slowed Iran’s nuclear
progress. Punitive sanctions, like the ones before the House,
have damaged its economy.  Yet Iran  isn’t going to unilaterally change  its nuclear
policies in the mere hope that doing so will bring some
sanctions relief. A sanctions strategy will work only if Iran
can be promised the penalties will end if its policies change.  Most  U.S. sanctions on Iran  are executive orders, which the
president can lift. Those few mandated by Congress, however, can
be reversed only by new congressional action. That limits the
ability of U.S. negotiators to offer sanctions relief in return
for Iranian concessions. Royce’s bill, which tightens existing
sanctions on Iran’s oil exports and limits its access to foreign
currency reserves abroad, would add to that complication.  Members of the Foreign Affairs Committee, who  unanimously
recommended  the bill for the House’s consideration, seem to
think more sanctions will provoke more concessions. The opposite
may be true. Ayatollah Khamenei already appears convinced that
regime change is the goal of U.S. sanctions and is thus wary of
nuclear diplomacy. The Royce bill may only deepen his skepticism
and stiffen his resistance.  Before running that risk, the U.S. should, with its allies,
test whether it can induce changes in Iran’s behavior by using
existing penalties, such as United Nations Security Council
restrictions on Iranian banking, a European Union oil embargo
and an almost complete economic embargo by the U.S., including
sanctions on companies that do business with Iran.  In recent talks, Iran appeared  to consider  limiting its
stockpiles of 20 percent enriched uranium, suspending production
of the stuff at its fortified facility at Fordow and accepting
tougher IAEA monitoring of enrichment sites. In the end, it
decided not to do so. Its refusal was no great surprise: The
benefits it stood to get -- relaxation of a ban on trade in
precious metals and an easing of an embargo on its petrochemical
products -- were hardly commensurate.  Once a new president is installed in Tehran, the
negotiators from  China ,  France ,  Germany ,  Russia , the U.K. and
U.S. ought to propose an action-for-action road map, laying out
all the sanctions they would lift in exchange for all the
nuclear concessions they want from Iran.  The Westerners should state from the outset that once Iran
is in full compliance, they will accept its limited right to
enrich uranium. A  right to enrich  is a sine qua non for Iran,
and its absence has been a stumbling block. Once that’s removed,
the two sides can negotiate the order and magnitude of
reciprocal actions.  If that diplomacy fails, greater penalties -- including
limits on Iran’s access to foreign-currency assets abroad -- may
be required to encourage Iran’s assent. Still, only as a last
resort should Congress force the president’s hand. As the
negotiator-in-chief, he needs to retain the power to turn the
stick of sanctions into the carrot of relief.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 