-- Emerging-Market Stocks Advance as Export Companies Gain
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-05-27T22:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/most-emerging-stocks-rise-as-exporters-gain-philippines-slides.html
Emerging-market stocks posted the
biggest increase in a week as a stronger Japanese currency
boosted exporters. Lenders declined in  Turkey  after the central
bank capped rates on overdraft accounts.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330)  and Hyundai Motor
Co. drove advances among Asian exporters as an appreciating yen
eased concern about a loss of competitiveness. MMX Mineracao &
Metalicos SA, a mining company, gained in Brazil, while  Turkiye
Garanti (GARAN)  Bankasi AS declined in Istanbul. OAO Lukoil, Russia’s
second-biggest oil producer, fell a third day as crude dropped
on speculation  China  may accept slower growth. The rand weakened
before a report that will probably show  South Africa ’s economy
slowed in the first quarter.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 0.2 percent to
1,028.53. The measure tumbled 1.8 percent last week, the biggest
slide since the first week of April. The yen strengthened
against most of its major peers amid concern the  Bank of Japan 
is struggling to control the nation’s bond yields through
monetary stimulus. China won’t sacrifice its environment to
ensure short-term economic growth, President  Xi Jinping  said on
May 24.  “Doubts on whether the Japanese authorities can sustain
the weak yen is benefiting the region’s exporters,” Fadlul Imansyah,  fund manager  at PT CIMB-Principal Asset Management,
said by phone in Jakarta. “Some investors are taking their
money off the table on concerns of the global growth outlook.”  Trading Volumes  Benchmark gauges in Taiwan, Poland and India rose at least
0.9 percent. The  Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index (XU100)  decreased for
a third day, slipping 0.5 percent, and Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF) 
dropped 0.2 percent. Brazil’s Ibovespa was little changed while
Mexico’s IPC Index fell 0.9 percent.  Trading volumes for the Micex were one-third of the 30-day
average, and at least 16 percent less than average for gauges in
Brazil, India and  Taiwan , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Volumes on Mexican stocks were 74 percent below the
30-day average as markets in the U.S. and U.K. were closed for
public holidays.  The rand depreciated 0.4 percent versus the dollar, the
third-biggest decline among 25 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. Growth in Africa’s biggest economy
probably slowed in the first quarter, a report may show
tomorrow, according to the median estimate of 13 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  Meatpacker Marfrig Alimentos SA climbed 3.4 percent in Sao
Paulo, rising a second day, while MMX gained 2.3 percent. OHL
Mexico SAB tumbled 6.9 percent, the most in two months, after
Excelsior columnist Dario Celis reported the company is planning
a share sale.  Garanti, Akbank  Garanti slipped 2.7 percent and Akbank TAS slid 1.9 percent
in Istanbul. The lenders account for about 22 percent of the
weighting on the Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100
Index, which fell 0.5 percent.  The rate-cap on overdraft accounts takes effect today, the
central bank said in a statement on its website May 25. The cap
may cut full-year net income at seven of Turkey’s largest banks,
including Garanti, by about 1 billion liras ($542 million) in
total, Ak Investment said in an e-mailed report today.  Lukoil slid 0.9 percent in Moscow as oil retreated 0.5
percent in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange.  China Deal  Rafako SA, a Polish power engineering company, surged 24
percent, the most since June 2011, after signing an agreement to
work with North China Power on a project to build a coal-fired
power plant in Jaworzno, Poland.  CEZ AS, the biggest Czech utility, rose 1.2 percent in
 Prague , the biggest increase this month, after Hospodarske
reported some Czech cabinet members and industry managers doubt
the viability of a $10 billion plan to build new nuclear
reactors at the Temelin power station, citing Foreign Minister
Karel Schwarzenberg and others.  Postponing the project, which wouldn’t be “economically
profitable,” would be positive for the company’s long-term
dividend outlook, Petr Bartek, an analyst at Erste Group AG in
Prague, said in an e-mailed note.  Six out of 10 industry  industry groups  rose today, led by a
gauge of technology companies, which climbed 1.1 percent. The
 emerging-markets  index has declined 2.5 percent this year,
compared with an 11 percent gain in the MSCI World Index.  Taiwan Semiconductor, the world’s largest contract maker of
chips, gained 2.3 percent, the most since April 19.  Hyundai Motor, South Korea’s biggest automaker, added 1.5
percent, and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s second-largest
television maker, climbed 3.1 percent.  Yen Debt  PT Perusahaan Gas Negara fell 4.9 percent in Jakarta, the
biggest drop in 11 months. The stronger yen may boost the cost
to serve its debt denominated in Japan’s currency, John Teja,
director at Ciptadana Securities, said today.  The Shanghai Composite Index added 0.2 percent as
environment-protection companies Sound Environmental Resources
Co. and Beijing SPC Environment Protection Tech Co. jumped at
least 4.9 percent after President Xi signaled a tolerance for
slower expansion to avoid environmental degradation.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland stocks
listed in  Hong Kong  rose for the first time in five days,
advancing 0.3 percent.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  tumbled 2.4 percent,
the most since June 4, after the BusinessWorld newspaper said
the nation’s economic growth may have slowed in the first three
months of this year.  Vietnam’s benchmark  VN Index (VNINDEX)  jumped 2.4 percent to the
highest level since February 2011 after the government said the
economy improved and foreign direct investment increased.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  