-- How Catty Russian Empress Bagged Art Returning to England
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2013-05-27T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/how-catty-russian-empress-bagged-art-returning-to-england.html
Great old master paintings in danger
of leaving Britain, questions asked in parliament, vastly
wealthy Russians, greedy politicians -- it all sounds extremely
contemporary.  Those were the ingredients of the first great art export
controversy in 1779. Many of the pictures in question have just
returned to  Houghton Hall , the English country house from which
they were sold 234 years ago.  There’s another twist: this was the collection put together
by Robert Walpole (1676-1745). Britain’s first prime minister
was effectively the inventor of the office and held it for an
impressive 21 years, later living at 10 Downing Street. He was,
it may come as no surprise to read, an Etonian.  Walpole came to power in the aftermath of one of the first
great market collapses in the history of capitalism, the South
Sea Bubble. He avoided foreign wars and kept taxes low, helping
his popularity, though it later ebbed after he increased duty on
tobacco and gin.  He was only a middle-income Norfolk squire in origin, yet
found enough money to rebuild his house on a grand scale (which
involved moving an entire village), and to fill it with a
spectacular array of art.  Quite how he managed this on his ministerial salary isn’t
clear. It’s true that he originated the axiom “every man has his
price.” But he said it about his opponents, not himself. One
consequence was that Walpole ended up heavily in debt.  Keen Collector  Move on half a century, and his grandson the 3rd Earl of
Orford was obliged to sell the best of the pictures. The deal
was done by James Christie, founder of the  auction house , and
the buyer was one of the keenest art collectors in the late 18th-century world: Empress Catherine the Great of  Russia .  Eventually she bought 204 pictures for a fairly modest
40,555 pounds (a little less than the total of Robert Walpole’s
debts at his death). Of these, 70, by artists such as Rembrandt,
Rubens and  Van Dyck , have been brought back to the rooms in
which they originally hung.  The Houghton sale was far from the last time that a British
country house was emptied of great works in this way. In fact
it’s still happening today. It just shows how much art
accumulated in the stately homes of  England  to begin with. The
sale of the Walpole collection was the first such drama.  It caused consternation. Josiah Wedgewood, the potter (who
had created an imperial dinner service for Catherine), was
filled with gloom. Clearly, he thought, this showed Britain had
begun to decline. “Russia is sacking our palaces and museums,”
he said.  National Gallery  The great radical political John Wilkes stood up in the
House of Commons and suggested the collection should be bought
for the nation to form the basis of a national gallery (to be
housed at the  British Museum ). As it happened, it was almost
half a century before the  National Gallery  of  London  was founded
in 1824. Still, the idea had been born.  There was controversy about the sale right to the end. A
rumor spread that the ship carrying the Houghton pictures to St
Petersburg had sunk with all its cargo. Catherine’s art adviser
heard another whisper that at the last minute the deal had not
gone through, but she put him right.  “The Walpole pictures are no longer available,” she said,
“for the simple reason that your humble servant has already got
her claws into them, and would no more let them go than a cat
would a mouse”.  Spoken like a true collector.  “Houghton Revisited: The Walpole Masterpieces from
Catherine the Great’s Hermitage” at Houghton Hall, Norfolk,
through Sept. 29, sponsored by BP.  Booking:  http://www.houghtonhall.com/houghtonrevisited  or
+44-1603-598-640.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Jorg von
Uthmann  on Paris culture and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 