-- Petrobras Argentine Assets Sale Fails as Bids Miss Expectations
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-05-27T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/petrobras-argentine-assets-sale-fails-as-bids-miss-expectations.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the most
indebted publicly-traded oil company, rejected all offers for
its Argentine assets after at least four months of talks as it
seeks to raise $9.9 billion through sales and cost cuts.  “The executive board analyzed today the results of the
negotiations for these assets and decided not to approve their
sale under the offers that have been received,” Rio de Janeiro-based Petrobras said in a May 24 regulatory filing after markets
closed in Sao Paulo, without offering further details. Petrobras
had been receiving offers since at least January. Argentina’s
Grupo Indalo was among the bidders.  Petrobras is seeking to raise funds for a $237 billion
five-year business plan, with 62 percent of the funds earmarked
for exploration and production as it taps offshore reserves
constituting the world’s largest discovery this century. The
company this month issued $11 billion in bonds to help finance
the program in the largest-ever  emerging markets  issuance.  Petrobras Argentina SA, as the Argentine unit is called, is
state-controlled Petrobras’s only publicly-listed unit. About 33
percent of the unit,  acquired  in 2002 from the Perez Companc
family, is listed in Buenos Aires and also trades in New York
through American Depositary Receipts. The company produces oil
and gas in Argentina, refines fuels and has gasoline stations.  Cost-Cutting Plan  Petrobras this year scaled back its divestiture and cost-cutting plan from an original $14.8 billion target because the
company had no experience as an asset seller and overestimated
demand, Chief Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Silva Foster
said March 15.  Earlier in the year Petrobras took out $7 billion in bank
loans, which puts total debt raised this year at $18 billion.  On May 24, Petrobras announced the sale of a 12 percent
stake in the off-shore Block 6 in Tanzania to  Statoil ASA (STL)  for an
undisclosed amount. Petrobras will continue to operate the block
and will hold a 38 percent stake.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  will
hold the remainder.  Petrobras has also sold assets in the Gulf of Mexico and
 Benin  this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  