-- Pimco Favorite Crushed by Bernanke QE Unwind Talk: Mexico Credit
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-05-27T11:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/pimco-favorite-crushed-by-bernanke-qe-unwind-talk-mexico-credit.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to pare back asset purchases if the U.S. posts
sustained economic growth is sparking the worst selloff in
Mexican bonds in two years.  Yields on Mexico’s benchmark peso bonds due in 2024 have
jumped 0.58 percentage point in May, set for the biggest monthly
surge since November 2010, as signs the Fed may reduce its so-called quantitative easing, or QE, program triggers a rout in
Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The notes,
with the highest correlation with  U.S. debt  in  Latin America ,
have lost 5.9 percent this month in dollars, the first monthly
decline since October and the biggest drop in a year.  Led by  Bill Gross ’s Pacific Investment Management Co.,
foreign investors that boosted peso bond holdings to a record
this year to profit from Mexico’s higher  interest rates  and
efforts to overhaul tax and energy policies are now getting
burned. Treasury yields soared May 22 after Bernanke said the
Fed may cut the pace of QE, the same day minutes from its last
meeting showed a “number” of officials were willing to taper
bond buying. Pimco said May 20 it favored Mexican bonds because
they compensated for the risk of slower global growth.  “Obviously, the most important thing was what Bernanke
said,” Roberto Ivan Garcia Castellanos, a bond trader at Casa
de Bolsa Finamex SAB in Guadalajara,  Mexico , said in a telephone
interview. “We’re going to follow that story. If there’s a
selloff, Mexico is going to lose out in turn.”  Mexican Correlation  The 30-day correlation coefficient between 10-year Mexican
peso bonds and similar-maturity Treasuries rose to 0.57 on May
22, the highest since Oct. 3. A coefficient of one signals the
securities move in lockstep.  Yields on U.S.  10-year notes  rose 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, after Bernanke said in congressional testimony
on May 22 that policy makers may reduce stimulus at some point.
Yields have climbed 34 basis points in May.  “If we see continued improvement, and we have confidence
that that is going to be sustained, then we could in -- in the
next few meetings -- we could take a step down in our pace of
purchases,” he said.  Ramin Toloui, global co-head of  emerging-markets  portfolio
management at Pimco, said May 20 that the world’s biggest fixed-income fund is favoring local bonds from Mexico,  Brazil  and
 South Africa .  ‘Potentially Cut’  “I would prefer to be compensated by the yield for the
risk of currency volatility in emerging markets in this global
environment where growth is going to be challenged, which would
pressure corporate profits,” Toloui said in an interview at the
CFA Institute Annual Conference in  Singapore . A slowdown would
be “negative for U.S. high yields but could produce a desire
for central banks and emerging markets to keep interest rates
low and potentially cut.”  Pimco is the biggest holder of benchmark Mexican debt
maturing in 2024, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pimco, didn’t respond to phone and e-mail
messages seeking comment on the company’s Mexico holdings.  Araceli Espinosa, a fixed-income analyst at the Mexican
unit of Bank of  Nova Scotia , said Mexican peso bonds were more
susceptible to the selloff in U.S. securities because they have
posted bigger gains.  ‘Greater Extent’  The Fed “was the excuse for profit taking,” Espinosa said
in a telephone interview from Mexico City. “They’ve been moving
with the U.S. securities in the same direction, but to a greater
extent because they’d rallied more this year.”  Foreign investors own $58 billion of Mexico’s fixed-rate
bonds on speculation President Enrique Pena Nieto will pass
legislation to open the state-controlled oil industry to more
private investment and boost tax revenue, according to data
compiled by the central bank.  The country’s 4 percent benchmark rate compares with zero
to 0.25 percent in the U.S.  Alejandro Urbina, who helps oversee about $800 million in
emerging-market assets at Silva Capital Management LLC in
 Chicago , said the slump in Mexican bonds may create a buying
opportunity for the longest-dated securities. Yields on Mexico’s
notes due in 2042 have climbed 77 basis points this month to a
three-month high of 6.11 percent.  ‘Love Them’  “For those investors who have held on to their long-end
exposure, if you liked the very long-end Mexican peso bonds at
5.30 percent, you should love them” at current levels, he said
in an e-mailed response to questions.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps rose one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 93 basis points at 6:30 a.m. in Mexico
City, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower fails to adhere
to its debt agreements.  The peso gained 0.5 percent to 12.4811 per dollar today. It
has dropped 2.8 percent this month. Yields on interbank rate
futures contracts due in December, known as TIIE, climbed 24
basis points to 4.29 percent last week.  The Fed is overwhelming investor optimism about economic
overhauls in Mexico, according to Finamex’s Garcia Castellanos.  “You should be cautious buying Mexican bonds,” he said.
“At the end of the day, Mexico is on the verge of reforms and
all, but if there’s a paradigm shift with regards to U.S.
monetary policy, it’s going to hit Mexico directly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  