-- Refined Sugar Sours as Premium Shrinks Amid Glut: Commodities
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-05-28T15:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/refining-sugar-sours-as-premium-shrinks-amid-glut-commodities.html
The two-year surge in the premium
that refined sugar commands over the raw sweetener is reversing
as Thailand and  Mexico  add record shipments to supplies that are
already greater than global consumption.  Brazil , the top exporter, is boosting output to a record,
overseas sales of white sugar from No. 2 shipper Thailand will
rise 11 percent and Mexico, ranked fifth, will ship 74 percent
more, according to company, industry and government estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The glut means lower costs for  Dunkin’
Brands Group Inc. (DNKN)  franchisees and potential profits for traders
betting the refining premium will shrink.  “I don’t see a big chance of gains for the white premium
in the short-term,” said Thaisa  Colombo , a broker on the sugar
and ethanol desk at Sao Paulo-based H. Commcor DTVM, which
trades futures in Brazil, the U.S. and  London . “The crop in
Brazil is already so big that the supplies from Thailand and
Mexico will only add to the surplus.”  Premiums surged after raw sugar prices hit a three-decade
high in 2011, leading to record global production. Since then,
futures slumped 53 percent, exceeding the 44 percent retreat in
white sugar as supplies outpace demand by a record 10 million
tons this season, up from 6.2 million a year earlier, according
to the  International Sugar Organization .  The price difference between white and raw sugar, which
rose from $50 in February 2011 to $108 a ton today after this
year’s high of about $127, will erase this year’s gains and drop
16 percent to $91 a ton by the end of next month, according to
the mean of eight trader estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Thai Mills  Raw-sugar futures dropped 14 percent to 16.83 cents a pound
($374 a ton) this year on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York . White
sugar fell 8.5 percent to $479.20 a ton on NYSE Liffe in London.
The premium rose 16 percent this year, after gaining 6 percent
in 2012 and 27 percent in 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rising supplies are also driving down the cost of grains
and coffee, with a 4.4 percent retreat this year in the Standard
& Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index of eight commodities. The MSCI
All-Country World Index of equities advanced 10 percent and a
Bank of America Corp. index shows Treasuries lost 0.5 percent.  Record Re-Melt  The premium for white sugar will spur  Thailand ’s mills to
process raw sugar into the white variety in a process called re-melt that will reach a record 2 million tons of sweetener, said
Kannika Vongkusolkit, a marketing strategist at Bangkok-based
Mitr Phol Sugar Corp., the nation’s biggest cane processor. That
will add to supplies already produced during the season and
expand exports to 3 million tons, she said. Re-melting is done
in the mills that crush cane using power generated from bagasse,
or cane waste.  Mexico will ship 1.7 million tons, from 985,000 tons in the
previous season, ranking it fifth, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture  estimates . While Mexico usually supplies to the
U.S., traders are watching the country more closely after 30,000
tons of its refined sugar was unexpectedly delivered into the
May contract on NYSE Liffe for the first time in more than two
decades.  Brazil is increasing output of raw and refined sugar to a
record 35.5 million tons, Sao Paulo-based industry group Unica
forecasts. The country produces one in every five tons of the
world’s raw sugar and it accounts for about 30 percent of white-sugar exports, according to the ISO, which counts 86 nations
among its members. Stockpiles at the end of this season will be
19 percent higher at 56.9 million tons, and will expand further
in the next 12 months, Macquarie Group Ltd. estimates.  Different Gluts  Traders are less bearish on white sugar in part because of
the relative scale of the gluts. The amount of raw sugar
available for export this season will exceed demand for imports
by 2.5 million tons, according to Leonardo Bichara Rocha, a
senior economist at the ISO. The surplus in white sugar for
export will be 1.8 million tons, he said.  The glut may be constrained by rising prices for hydrous
ethanol. The cane-derived biofuel used in Brazil’s flex-fuel
cars sells for 17.5 cents a pound, or 4 percent more than raw
sugar, according to Kingsman SA, a unit of  McGraw-Hill Financial
Inc. (MHFI) ’s Platts.  Center South  Millers in Brazil’s center south, accounting for about 90
percent of national output, will use 53.8 percent of the cane
crop for ethanol in the season that started last month, from
50.5 percent a year earlier, Unica estimates. Rain may disrupt
the sugar cane harvest in the country this week, weather
forecaster Somar Meteorologia said yesterday.  The sugar glut may be curbed because demand is being
boosted by slumping prices. Exports of raw sweetener climbed to
a record 32 million tons in the 12 months ending in March,
according to London-based Czarnikow Group, which traded 800,000
tons of refined product last year. The company raised its
estimate for global consumption this season by 1.8 million tons
to 174.1 million tons in March.  Further deliveries of Mexican sugar to the London market
may be limited because some of the nation’s exporters may have
to repackage cargoes to meet bourse specifications, said  Michael McDougall , head of the Brazil desk at Newedge USA LLC in New
York. Mexico usually packs its sugar in bags that are different
from NYSE Liffe requirements.  Hedge funds  are holding the third-biggest bearish  bet  ever
on ICE Futures U.S., according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data that starts in 2006. The wagers mean any rally
in raw sugar may be exaggerated by traders buying back contracts
to close out positions, Rabobank said in a report last month.
The bank forecasts a fourth-quarter average of 19 cents a pound.  Liffe Positions  Speculators also anticipate lower white-sugar prices, with
a net-short position of 7,713 contracts, compared with a bullish
bet of 1,351 contracts in the first week of May, data from NYSE
Liffe show. The annual surge in demand from Muslim nations
stocking up before the start of the holy month of Ramadan in
July is starting to weaken because cargoes can take about a
month to deliver. If raw sugar rallies, and refined doesn’t, the
premium for white sugar will narrow.  Lower prices helped contain global  food costs  the past two
years, with sugar the biggest loser among the five main
categories tracked by the  United Nations . It’s also helping
control commodity expenses for Dunkin’ Brands franchisees, who
operate 17,400 Dunkin’ Donuts and Baskin-Robbins outlets across
60 countries, Chief Supply Officer Scott Murphy said in a
conference call with investors May 7. Coffee, sugar and
shortening costs are forecast to be favorable for the company in
2013 while wheat and dairy are unfavorable, according to a
presentation accompanying the call.  Processing Ended  Thailand will produce 10.1 million tons of raw sweetener
this season, according to the country’s Office of the Cane and
Sugar Board. That’s close to last year’s record 10.2 million
tons and 1.1 million more than was forecast in February.
Processing ended about two weeks ago and millers will now focus
on producing white sugar, said Fabienne Pointier, an analyst at
Kingsman in Lausanne,  Switzerland .  The country’s raw-sugar exports fell 56 percent in the
first quarter while white shipments advanced 2.8 percent,
according to the Thai Sugar Millers Corp., a group representing
the nation’s 47 mills. Thailand will not stockpile its sugar for
next season whatever the premium, said Piromsak Sasunee, chief
executive officer of Bangkok-based Thai Sugar Trading Corp., the
country’s biggest exporter. The country doesn’t have the option
of turning cane into ethanol.  Next Shortfall  Tighter global supply isn’t forecast any time soon, with
Macquarie predicting the next shortfall for raw sugar in the
season ending September 2015. The predicted deficit of 3.9
million tons will be outweighed by inventories of 55.5 million
tons, still 16 percent higher than at the end of last season.  The futures curve is also spurring more white-sugar supply,
according to Jonathan Drake, chief operating officer at RCMA
Commodities Asia Pte Ltd., a Singapore-based trader that traces
its origin to a 19th century edible-oil trading company, and the
former head of sugar at Cargill Inc. Most of the market is in
contango, with longer-dated contracts costing more than near-term supply, encouraging refineries to buy now and boost
processing.  It was the reverse three years ago. “You’re just a few
dollars away from turning every factory that can produce white
sugar on,” Drake said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  