-- Reliance Turns Bullish as Ambani Wins Approvals: Corporate India
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-05-28T11:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/reliance-turns-bullish-as-ambani-wins-approvals-corporate-india.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , controlled
by India’s richest man, is optimistic for the first time in
three years about reversing a slide in gas output after the
government began approving its expansion plans.  The company in January got endorsement for its proposals to
explore and develop areas off India’s east coast submitted in
2010, Mumbai-based Executive Director P.M.S. Prasad, 61, said in
an interview. That assent helped Reliance make a “significant”
gas discovery in KG-D6, its biggest block in the  Bay of Bengal ,
after drilling the first exploration well in the area in more
than four years.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government is accelerating
permissions to allow companies including billionaire  Mukesh Ambani ’s Reliance and  Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR)  boost output and help
 Asia ’s second-largest energy consumer slash purchases from
overseas by half by 2020. An unprecedented $151 billion oil
import bill in the year ended March 31 propelled India’s  current
account deficit  to a record, weakened the rupee and fueled
inflation that’s the highest among large emerging nations.  “The approvals have started coming in after nothing was
happening for three years,” said Prasad. “This year, we
drilled a new well looking for more gas, submitted plans to
produce from discoveries, got budgets approved, and resolved
various issues. Things are moving now.”  Peak Output  Reliance’s output fell 39 percent to an average 26 million
cubic meters of gas a day from the KG-D6 block in the year ended
March 31, according to an April 16  report . Production is
currently about 15 million cubic meters a day. The company
started output in April 2009 with a plan to raise it to a peak
daily rate of 80 million cubic meters in a year.  The company achieved its highest gas production in 2010
helping Reliance post a 25 percent  profit  increase in the year
ended March 31, 2011, the fastest pace of growth in three years.
 Revenue from the business  has plunged 52 percent since then,
pulling the stock down 20 percent even as the benchmark  S&P BSE
Sensex (SENSEX)  gained 3.1 percent.  The stock  rose  1.8 percent to 843.4 rupees at in Mumbai as
about 20.4 million shares or 0.6 percent of equity changed hands
in a single block trade.  Reliance attributed the drop in gas output to difficult
geology, which the company hadn’t anticipated earlier.  “There’s nothing yet to suggest the difficult geology
won’t extend to the other discoveries in the block,” said K.K. Mital, a  fund manager  with Globe Capital Market Ltd. in  New
Delhi . “We’ve already seen and experienced the geological
difficulties Reliance has faced.”  Gas Price  Production will also depend on the price of gas. Reliance
sells the fuel from its KG-D6 block at a state mandated $4.2 per
million British thermal units.  Natural gas futures in  New York  trading have increased 26
percent to $4.2 per million Btu this year, while  Japan , the
world’s biggest buyer of liquefied natural gas paid $16.44 per
million Btu for purchases from overseas in March, the latest
month for which data is available.  The tariff for Reliance comes up for renewal in April. A
panel led by Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chief of the prime
minister’s Economic Advisory Council, wants rates in  India  to be
an average of gas prices in the U.S., U.K. and Japanese imports,
which may almost double it.  “There’s a lot of gas in India waiting to be developed and
produced,” B. Ganguly, president of Reliance’s petroleum
exploration and production business, said in an interview.
“It’s important these get government and regulatory approvals
and market price to help the nation cut imports.”  Undiscovered Gas  India has 27 trillion cubic feet of proven and possible gas
reserves in fields that are yet to be developed, researcher IHS
Cera said in a January report. That’s four-times higher than the
U.K.’s known gas deposits. India’s 12 major petroleum basins may
hold another 64 trillion cubic feet of undiscovered gas,
according to the report.  Most of this lies in the deep waters off India’s coast,
which requires prices of $8 per million Btu to $12 per million
Btu to make it viable to extract, according to the report. Gas
price of $10 per million Btu could more than double production
in India by 2025, according to IHS Cera.  Billionaire Anil Agarwal’s Cairn India, operator of the
nation’s biggest oil field on land, discovered fuel in a new
well at its area in Rajasthan state last month. It was the first
well the explorer drilled in the block in five years after
winning approval in February.  The government in January approved Cairn India’s plan to
raise production from the block to 300,000 barrels a day,
equivalent to about 40 percent of India’s current output, from
175,000 barrels per day.  Minister’s Goal  Minister for Petroleum & Natural Gas M. Veerappa Moily, who
took over the post in October, aims to cut oil imports by 75
percent by 2025. Lower imports may help narrow India’s current
account gap, which swelled to $32.6 billion in the quarter ended
Dec. 31. A depreciating rupee is also boosting cost of overseas
purchases adding to consumer price increases that’s the highest
among Brazil, Russia and  China .  Vivek Rae, secretary at the ministry, couldn’t be reached
for comment at his office in New Delhi yesterday.  Government endorsement for Reliance’s plans have made
analysts the most  bullish  on its shares in almost a year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The consensus rating,
or the average of recommendations updated by analysts in the
past year, increased to 3.77 this month, the highest since June
2012. The rating fell to 3.1 on Jan. 7. Five denotes a buy and
one a sell.  Spending Plan  “Approvals coming in after a lull is a positive thing, but
it also has to be a continuous process,” said  Alok Deshpande , a
Mumbai-based analyst with Elara Securities Ltd., who has a buy
recommendation on Reliance’s shares. “Along with crude oil
imports, gas imports are now rising and its at the back of
everyone’s minds. The government just has to help boost
production in India.”  Reliance and its partner  BP Plc (BP/)  said in February they plan
to spend $5 billion developing discovered 4 trillion cubic feet
of gas reserves in the block. This is equivalent to about two
years of India’s gas consumption. India’s proven gas reserves
were  43.8 trillion cubic feet  at the end of 2011, according to
BP data.  The new gas pool announced on May 24 may hold about 2
trillion cubic feet of gas,  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in a report
yesterday, while upgrading Reliance to outperform from market
perform.  BP’s Board  BP’s board of directors met in New Delhi this month, their
first meeting in India, and visited Reliance’s onshore gas
terminal on the east coast, about 1,700 kilometers (1,056 miles)
away.  Europe ’s second-biggest oil company bought stakes in KG-D6
and 20 other blocks for  $7.2 billion  in August 2010 as Ambani
sought the London- based company’s technology to drill and
produce gas from deepwater areas.  “BP’s directors visited our facilities and said it was one
of the nicest projects they’ve seen anywhere in the world,”
said Prasad, who joined Reliance 31 years ago from  Schlumberger
Ltd. (SLB)  “They were very happy with the projects we’re planning and
with the positive regulatory environment in the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  