-- Russia Fights Ustinov Extradition to U.S. for Arms Trial
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-05-27T13:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/russia-fights-ustinov-extradition-to-u-s-for-arms-trial.html
Russia  assailed an American request
to extradite a suspected arms dealer from  Lithuania , less than
three years after failing to stop  Thailand ’s transfer of Viktor Bout to the U.S. for plotting to sell weapons to terrorists.  Dmitry Ustinov is accused at a U.S. court of smuggling,
 money laundering  and attempts to illegally export goods included
on a list of U.S. defense articles, the Russian embassy in the
Lithuanian capital, Vilnius, said today in an e-mailed response
to questions. He was detained at the Vilnius airport on April 15
at the request of the  U.S. Department of Justice  and awaits the
start of court proceedings on his extradition, it said. Ustinov
denies any wrongdoing, according to the statement.  The embassy “will do everything necessary to defend the
legal rights of D. Ustinov,” it said. “We don’t agree with
this treatment of a Russian citizen.”  The case threatens to rekindle diplomatic tensions between
Russia and the U.S. a year after another Russian citizen,  Viktor
Bout , was sentenced in New York to 25 years in prison for
plotting to sell weapons to a Colombian terrorist group. Russia
repeatedly sought to block Bout’s extradition from Thailand,
where he was arrested in 2008, and criticized his eventual
conviction as “unjustified.”  Several U.S. officials involved in Bout’s case were barred
from entry to Russia last month after being included on a list
of Americans accused of violating the rights of Russian citizens
abroad.  Lithuanian Detention  A Lithuanian court in April authorized Ustinov’s detention
for two months, pending receipt of a formal extradition request
by the U.S., the Lithuanian Prosecutor General’s Office said in
an e-mailed response to questions today. The office declined to
specify the grounds for detention because they’re based on a
foreign government’s investigation.  U.S. Embassy Public Affairs Officer Jonathan Berger,
speaking by phone in Vilnius on May 24, declined to comment on
Ustinov, referring the matter to the  Department of Justice .  Ustinov was born in 1966, according to the Russian Embassy.
Russian consular officials met with him at a detention facility
in Vilnius on April 29, the embassy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  