-- HSBC, StanChart Sell Singapore’s First Dim Sum Bonds
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-05-27T12:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/hsbc-stanchart-offer-dim-sum-bonds-in-singapore-s-first-sales.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Standard
Chartered (STAN)  Plc sold the first yuan-denominated bonds in
Singapore, making the city state the third offshore hub for
notes in the Chinese currency.  HSBC priced 500 million yuan ($81.7 million) of two-year
notes through its Singapore branch at 2.25 percent, according to
an e-mailed statement from Europe’s biggest bank. Standard
Chartered, which generates most of its operating profit in Asia,
sold 1 billion yuan of 2.625 percent three-year notes, according
to a separate e-mailed statement from the lender. The notes
priced to yield 2.75 percent, a person familiar with the matter
said earlier today.  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  is also looking to issue yuan-denominated securities in Singapore as  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd. (601398) ’s local branch begins clearing services from
today for the  renminbi . Taipei became the second hub for
offshore  yuan  note sales in February, following the start of the
Dim Sum bond market in Hong Kong in 2007.  “This issuance will help open the market to other issuers
looking to fund themselves internationally in RMB, offer new
investment opportunities to the substantial pool of wealth
managed in Singapore and assist in funding the rapidly growing
RMB-denominated trade business in Asia,” Matthew Cannon, head
of global markets at HSBC Singapore, said in the statement.  Offshore debt sales in the currency of Asia’s biggest
economy may reach as much as 360 billion yuan this year,
according to estimates from HSBC. The yuan has gained 0.7
percent against the dollar this month while the Singapore dollar
has lost 2.2 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Milestone Development  “We see this as another milestone for Singapore in the
development of its status as an offshore RMB hub,” said Ray Ferguson, chief executive officer of Standard Chartered Bank
Singapore, in an earlier statement.  The Dim Sum notes issued by both banks will be cleared
through Central Depository Pte, a unit of  Singapore Exchange
Ltd. (SGX)  ICBC was appointed as Singapore’s renminbi clearing bank by
the People’s Bank of China on Feb. 8, according to a statement
on the Singapore monetary authority’s website.  The  Hong Kong  regulator’s Central Moneymarkets Unit and
Bank of China Hong Kong Ltd. provide that infrastructure in the
territory, while Taiwan Depository & Clearing Corp. and Bank of
China’s Taipei branch operate in Taiwan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  