-- Seadrill Climbs as Investors Bet on Higher Dividend: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-05-27T09:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/seadrill-climbs-as-investors-bet-on-higher-dividend-oslo-mover.html
Seadrill Ltd. (SDRL) , the offshore drilling
company controlled by billionaire  John Fredriksen , climbed in
Oslo as investors bet payments to shareholders will increase
when the company reports its first-quarter results tomorrow.  Shares in Hamilton, Bermuda-based Seadrill, gained as much
 1.5 percent  to 234.2 kroner, where it was trading as of 11:45
a.m. local time. That makes it the  biggest gainer  in the
Bloomberg EMEA Oil & Gas Index today.  Seadrill will increase its dividend to 86 cents from 85
cents, according to  Bloomberg dividend forecasts . That will give
a 12-month  dividend yield  of about 11 percent. The company will
report first-quarter net income of $304 million, up from $17
million in the previous three months, according to the average
of  17 analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Seadrill, which is expanding its fleet in anticipation of
rising demand from oil and gas producers, has gained 15 percent
so far this year. The driller has 22 new-build rigs under
construction and a contract backlog of about $21 billion,
according to its fourth-quarter report. It has since ordered two
more jack-up rigs, it said on March 5.  The driller will pay out 90 cents a share in the first
quarter, before rising to $1 apiece in the fourth-quarter, Frank Harestad, an analyst at Pareto Securities ASA, said in a note
dated May 23. The broker expects a “solid” and potentially
increased dividend, combined with a “good outlook for the
drilling market,” to positively impact Seadrill’s valuation in
the coming months, he said.  Seadrill will be able to sign “robust contracts” for its
five newbuilds scheduled to be delivered between this year and
2015, said Harestad, who has a  buy recommendation  on the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  