-- Serbia Backs Kosovo Implementation Plan in Quest for EU Date
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-05-27T08:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/serbia-backs-kosovo-implementation-plan-in-quest-for-eu-date.html
Serbia  backed a decision to implement
a political agreement with its breakaway Kosovo province and
moved a step closer to getting a date to start European Union
membership talks next month.  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic  informed the EU’s foreign policy
chief  Catherine Ashton  that his 11-month old Cabinet backed the
implementation pact “as a status neutral document,” the
government’s press office said in an e-mailed statement after
the Cabinet’s meeting late yesterday in the capital Belgrade.  Dacic and his Kosovo counterpart, Hashim Thaci, agreed on
May 22 on a plan to carry out their April 19 preliminary, EU-mediated pact to normalize ties after years of conflict and
tension, paving the way for reconciliation and talks on joining
the EU. Serbs in northern Kosovo haven’t accepted the deal.  Endorsing the execution plan and making initial steps to
fulfill it are key to win the support of  Germany , which wants
“substantial and visible” results before backing any decision
of the Council of the EU to grant Serbia a start date and to
begin pre-accession talks with Kosovo. The Council meets on June
28, a day after a debate in the German lower house in Berlin,
the Bundestag.  “The implementation plan is designed to solve problems on
the ground and to ensure rapid progress of both Serbia and
Kosovo towardsthe European Union,” Ashton said in an e-mailed
statement today. “It represents a further step forward in the
EU-facilitated dialogue and it is without prejudice to the
positions of the two sides on the Kosovo status.”  Police Commander  Serbia and  Kosovo  have until June 15 to work out power
sharing in telecommunications and energy and make progress in
clarifying the fate of people missing on both sides since the
1998-99 war.  “The nomination of a regional police commander for the
north of Kosovo” in line with powers of the association of
municipalities will “make a visible contribution to building
trust and to stabilization of political conditions” as well as
improved safety across Kosovo, the government said in the
statement. Serbia had insisted that Kosovo allows Serbs who live
in the north to have their own police and judiciary systems.  Serbia and Kosovo have been at loggerheads since the wars
of the 1990s that led to the breakup of  Yugoslavia . The Serbs,
who consider Kosovo the cradle of their nation and culture, have
vowed never to accept its independence, declared unilaterally in
2008. Kosovo is recognized by more than 90 countries worldwide,
including the U.S. and 22 of the EU’s 27 member states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  