-- Shell’s Voser Calls on Australia to Prioritize Energy Education
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-05-27T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/shell-s-voser-calls-on-australia-to-prioritize-energy-education.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s
largest oil company, urged Australia to prioritize education to
boost skilled worker numbers and encourage technological
developments to counter the threat of high costs.  Australia’s natural gas industry, which faces increasing
competition from energy producers in  North America ,  Asia  and
East Africa, needs “the right regulatory and tax policies to
drive innovation and investment,” Shell Chief Executive Officer
 Peter Voser  said today in notes for a speech in  Brisbane , where
he’s attending an industry conference.  “Rising costs have become a significant challenge for
companies doing business here,” Voser said. “There is also the
inevitable challenge of accommodating different land uses and
land users. All these issues must be resolved in a fair and
practical way if Australia is to move forward.”  Shell plans to invest $30 billion in Australia over five
years, Voser reiterated today. The Hague-based company is a
partner in Chevron Corp.’s Gorgon liquefied natural gas project
and Woodside Petroleum Ltd.’s proposed Browse LNG venture. It’s
also developing the Prelude floating LNG project.  Prelude will add an estimated A$45 billion ($43 billion) to
Australia’s gross domestic product and more than A$12 billion to
 tax revenue , Voser said. The company also plans a large-scale
project to supply LNG for the  transportation industry  along
Australia’s biggest trucking route, Voser said.  Voser, who was appointed CEO in July 2009, announced
earlier this month that he will retire in the first half of
2014. Voser has been cutting costs and expanding projects to add
production. Shell will invest about $100 billion through 2014
after selling at least $21 billion in assets.  Queensland LNG  Shell’s Arrow Energy Ltd. venture in Australia with
PetroChina Co. is in talks to cooperate with competitors
building LNG plants in the state of Queensland, Chief Financial
Officer Simon Henry told reporters on a call this month.  Shell deliberately delayed a decision to go ahead with its
proposed LNG project on Australia’s east coast amid cost
inflation in the country, Henry said at the time. BG Group Plc,
ConocoPhillips and Santos Ltd. are building three projects on
Queensland’s  Curtis Island  at a cost of more than $60 billion.  One of the better options for Shell’s Arrow venture is to
supply gas to one of the existing projects or to the domestic
market,  Mark Wiseman  and Anthony Ta, Sydney-based analysts at
Goldman Sachs Australia Pty, wrote in a May 23 report.  Shell said in November it may delay until 2014 a decision
on whether to go ahead with the Arrow venture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  