-- Singapore Press Rises on Retail REIT’s Dividend: Singapore Mover
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-05-28T09:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/singapore-press-plans-to-raise-s-540-million-in-retail-reit-ipo.html
Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. (SPH) , the
newspaper publisher that owns the Paragon mall along the city’s
shopping belt, rose the most in almost two months after it said
it will pay a one-time dividend from its property trust listing.  The stock climbed 1.8 percent to S$4.47 at the close in
 Singapore  trading, its biggest gain since April 3. The company
said yesterday it plans to raise about S$540 million ($427
million) from the initial share sale of a real estate investment
trust that will include Paragon and the Clementi Mall in the
island state’s western suburb.  The REIT is expected to list in early July, Chief Financial
Officer Tony Mallek said in a briefing yesterday. The trust will
buy  Paragon  and Clementi Mall for S$3.07 billion, and the
company will pay a dividend of 18 Singapore cents, Singapore
Press said.  “We expect initial share price reaction to be positive”
as the one-time payout would amount to 75 percent of the
dividend in the last fiscal year, Joshua Low, an analyst at DMG
& Partners Research Pte, said in a report. “This would imply a
boosting of fiscal year 2013 yield to 9.6 percent.”  The IPO comes after  Mapletree Greater China Commercial
Trust (MAGIC)  raised S$1.6 billion in February. REITs and business
trusts have been the biggest fundraisers in Singapore’s IPO
market in the past 12 months, accounting for almost 80 percent
of the S$6.6 billion raised in the city, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Crystallizing Value  The trust “allows SPH to crystallize the value in Paragon
and the Clementi Mall, and release capital to fund the group’s
growth and the special dividend,” Singapore Press said in the
statement, adding that it will hold about 70 percent of the
retail REIT after it goes public.  The REIT will have a market value of S$2.2 billion, and
will hold S$900 million of debt, the company said in its
presentation slides.  Paragon, located along Orchard Road, and Clementi Mall are
“fully leased,” Singapore Press said earlier this year.  In the year through August 2012, property accounted for 26
percent of Singapore Press’s  operating income  of S$466.9
million, while newspapers and magazines accounted for almost 71
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Singapore Press climbed 11 percent this year, compared with
the 7.6 percent increase in the benchmark  Straits Times Index. (FSSTI)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  