-- Swiss Stocks Decline, Following Last Week’s Retreat
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-05-27T15:43:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/swiss-stocks-are-little-changed-actelion-shares-climb.html
Swiss stocks  dropped, following last
week’s decline when the benchmark Swiss Market Index posted its
first weekly drop in more than a month.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  posted the worst performance on the equity
gauge.  SGS SA (SGSN) , the world’s largest product inspector, retreated
for a fourth day.  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the world’s biggest supplier
of offshore oil rigs, advanced 2.6 percent.  The  SMI (SMI)  lost 0.1 percent to 8,163.05 at the close in
Zurich, erasing an earlier gain of as much as 0.3 percent. The
gauge declined 1.4 percent last week, falling for the first time
in five weeks. The equity benchmark has still  rallied 20 percent 
in 2013 as central banks around the world continued their asset-buying programs. The Swiss Performance Index also slipped 0.1
percent today.  “Trading will probably remain rather subdued today, as
there will be no trading in  London  and the U.S. due to holidays
and no major economic data is scheduled on either side of the
Atlantic,” Alessandro Fezzi, senior market strategist at LGT
Bank Schweiz AG in Zurich, wrote in an e-mail. “After the
corporate earnings season came to an end, investors will focus
on more economic evidence.”  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 53 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Markets in the U.K. and
the U.S. are closed today.  Economic Releases  In the euro area,  unemployment  data scheduled for May 31
will show that joblessness rose to 12.2 percent in April,
according to the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey. A Swiss
economic release on May 30 will probably show that gross
domestic product increased 0.2 percent in the first quarter.  Economic indicators will “determine how long central banks
will have to support the economy with their monetary stimuli --
the key for a continued bullish momentum in equity markets,”
Fezzi wrote.  Holcim, the world’s largest cement maker, retreated 1.1
percent to 74.80 Swiss francs.  SGS declined 0.9 percent to 2,167 francs. Kuehne & Nagel
International AG, the world’s biggest sea-freight forwarder,
lost 1 percent to 107 francs.  Transocean (RIGN)  increased 2.6 percent to 50.65 francs, snapping
four days of losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  