-- Lufthansa Strikes Match Last Year on Air Dolomiti Walkout
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-05-27T13:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/lufthansa-strikes-match-last-year-on-air-dolomiti-pilots-walkout.html
Pilots at  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s Air
Dolomiti regional subsidiary in  Italy  plan to strike on May 29,
adding to a growing number of disruptions that have held back
the German carrier’s traffic growth this year.  Air Dolomiti, which operates flights from Munich, Frankfurt
and Moscow mostly to cities in northern Italy, faces a walkout
of pilots belonging to the Ugl Trasporti union from noon to 4
p.m. on May 29 for flights departing from Italy. The union said
it staged the  protest  after four pilots were dismissed for
voicing concern about the future of the airline.  The strike would bring to 18 days so far this year where
Lufthansa had to cancel at least 20 flights due to labor unrest,
the same as in all of 2012. Most of the disruption was created
by third-party conflicts involving airport or security staff.  Stefan Lauer, the Lufthansa executive in charge of
personnel, called the rise in protests an “increasingly
unbearable situation” in an employee-magazine interview last
month, saying the company was the victim of more unrest than
other companies in  Germany .  The strikes represent a setback for Chief Executive Officer
Christoph Franz’s plans to lift operating profit to a record 2.3
billion euros ($3 billion) by 2015, a plan that involves cutting
1,500 jobs and closing the company’s Cologne headquarters.
Strikes by cabin crews on three days in August and September
last year cost the company 33 million euros.  Security guards at airports including Hamburg, Dusseldorf
and Cologne have also suspended work this year, leading to
hundreds of cancellations. Those protests were followed by a
full-day warning strike during wage negotiations for ground
staff that all but suspended Lufthansa’s operations on April 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  