-- Hungary to Cut Main Rate From Record Low to Boost Growth
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-05-27T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/hungary-to-cut-main-rate-from-record-low-to-boost-growth.html
Hungary  will probably cut the  main
 interest rate  for a 10th month to a record after the inflation
rate plunged as policy makers seek to reduce borrowing costs to
boost lending and growth, a survey of economists showed.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank will lower the benchmark two-week
deposit rate to 4.5 percent from 4.75 percent, according to all
24 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The decision will be
announced at 2 p.m. in Budapest today, followed by a statement
an hour later.  The central bank wants to ignite economic expansion after a
recession last year, with consumer-price growth at the slowest
in almost 39 years. Rate setters are complementing monetary
easing with a Funding for Growth plan, which allocates 500
billion forint ($2.2 billion) in zero-interest funding to
commercial lenders to boost corporate lending.  “The central bank is on a mission to drive funding rates
lower for the overall economy and the current improvement in the
risk backdrop as well as the favorable inflation trends provide
the” central bank “with a golden opportunity to do just
that,” Pasquale Diana, a London-based economist at  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , said in a May 24 e-mail.  The forint strengthened 4.5 percent against the euro in the
past month, the best performance among 31 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on the  benchmark 10-year
government bond  dropped to 5.10 yesterday from 5.31 percent a
month earlier after reaching a record low of 4.88 percent on May
17, according to generic data compiled by Bloomberg.  CDS, Forwards  The cost to insure the country’s debt against non-payment
for five years using credit-default swaps was 283 basis points
yesterday, compared with 300 a month ago. The spread fell to a
four-month low of 270 on May 8.  Six-month forward-rate agreements, used to speculate on
interest rates, are trading 99 basis points  below  the Budapest
interbank offered rate, indicating expectations of as much as 1
percentage point in cuts by the end of November. The benchmark
rate may drop to 3.5 percent according to Morgan Stanley, while
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  predicts it at 3.25 percent by October.  “This gradual approach, this predictability is working;
this continuity, the fact that we keep going forward, is
working; it’s good strategy,” central bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy, who took over the position in March, said on May 17,
the state-run MTI news service reported.  ‘Conservative, Responsible’  “Gradually” reducing the two-week deposit rate while
creating a targeted-lending plan with rates below the benchmark
was backed by “leading bankers and strategic advisers and was
also the closest to the conservative and responsible monetary
policy that I represent,” Matolcsy said, according to a
transcript of an interview published in the Budapest-based
weekly Heti Valasz on May 9.  An alternative would have been to “cut the benchmark to
the consensus level in two or three steps,” Matolcsy was cited
as saying. This would have been “less predictable and more
risky,” he said, according to Heti Valasz.  Consumer prices  rose 1.7 percent from a year earlier in
April, the slowest since June 1974, after a 2.2 percent increase
the previous month. The bank is “optimistic” on inflation and
predicts the rate will remain below its 3 percent target on the
monetary-policy horizon, Vice President Adam Balog said May 8.  “Based on the inflation path and other trends, the Magyar
Nemzeti Bank’s Monetary Council may see an opportunity to cut
the benchmark rate further, which would help boost economic
growth,” Matolcsy said on May 16.  Growth, Lending  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  sacrificed growth in 2012 to
keep the budget gap below the European Union’s 3 percent of
gross domestic product limit. The European Commission, the 27-nation bloc’s executive, will publish its recommendation
tomorrow on whether to allow Hungary to exit from its budget
monitoring for fiscal offenders, which would remove the threat
of a cut in EU funding.  The central bank’s Funding for Growth plan, modeled on the
Bank of England’s Funding for Lending Scheme, seeks to increase
credit to small- and medium-sized companies. A drop in lending
contributed to a recession last year after the government
imposed  Europe ’s highest bank tax in 2010 to cut the budget gap.  The economy grew in the first three months of the year for
the first time since 2011. GDP expanded a seasonally adjusted
0.7 percent in the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  