-- Venezuela TV Host Said He Was Fired for Airing Opposition Speech
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-05-27T22:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/venezuela-tv-host-said-he-was-fired-for-airing-opposition-speech.html
A Venezuelan television host said he
was fired by Globovision network for airing a speech by an
opposition leader, two weeks after the channel accused by late
president  Hugo Chavez  of plotting against him was bought out.  Francisco “Kiko” Bautista, who hosted “Buenas Noches,”
a political chat show that airs every night, said he was
dismissed for violating a new editorial policy that prohibits
the channel from broadcasting comments by opposition politicians
without prior approval by the board of directors.  “My dismissal is an injustice,” Bautista told reporters
at his home in Caracas. “I’m a journalist and I can’t censor
myself. Globovision’s editorial line is looking to reduce the
exposure of those opposed to the government.”  Globovision, the only channel in Venezuela to air speeches
by opposition leader Henrique Capriles Radonski live, was sold
this month after a battle with the government over its coverage
of prison riots. The sale raised fresh questions about freedom
of speech in the South American nation that closed 34  radio
stations  in 2009 for licensing disputes, said Marcelino Bisbal,
director of media studies at the Universidad Catolica Andres
Bello in Caracas.  Given their broadcasting license expires in June 2015, “it
was logical that they were going to change the editorial line,”
Bisbal said in a phone interview.  Leopoldo Castillo, a member of Globovision’s director’s
board, said that there have been misunderstanding and crossed
wires since Globovision changed ownership. He called for
dialogue to iron out the differences.  The Apocalypse  “State media only broadcasts propaganda but Globovision
won’t be the frontline trench that has the same vices,”
Castillo said today. “At this moment, Globovision’s task must
be different to what it was before.”  Communications Minister Ernesto Villegas didn’t respond to
an e-mail seeking comment.  Globovision was one of the channels branded by the late
President Hugo Chavez as the “four horsemen of the apocalypse”
for their role in a failed coup attempt against him in 2002. It
remained critical of the government after Chavez’s death in
February and the election of President Nicolas Maduro in April.  Juan Domingo Cordero, Raul Gorrin and Gustavo Perdomo,
owners of Caracas-based insurance company Seguros La Vitalicia,
purchased the channel from Guillermo Zuloaga and Nelson
Mezerhane on May 13.  Capriles said yesterday that he had received information
from Globovision’s workers that they were no longer allowed to
transmit his speeches in real time.  ‘Strategies for Peace’  “The government wants to control all of the media,” he
said in a message on his Twitter account. “There will be
others!”  Cordero, the channel’s new president, met with President
Maduro and Vice President Jorge Arreaza last week and said he
agreed to contribute toward peace in the country.  “We are ready to collaborate with strategies for peace,”
Cordero said, according to a government statement. “It’s the
function of a television channel to lower levels of violence and
contribute toward constructing peace.”  Venezuela’s National Assembly President  Diosdado Cabello 
said today that the previous owners sold Globovision because
they ran out of money after operating the channel “like a
political party,” Noticias24 reported on its website.  Globovision in 2011 was fined $2.2 million for its coverage
of prison riots. The channel exaggerated the riots by only
broadcasting the opinions of mothers and wives outside the
prison who feared their relatives were being massacred by the
National Guard, the telecommunications regulator said.
Globovision denied the charges.  Coup Protagonists  Chavez accused Venezuela’s private media of becoming
protagonists in the 2002 coup attempt after television channels
didn’t report on protests by his supporters in the aftermath of
the April 11-13 putsch.  Chavez in 2007 shut down RCTV by revoking its broadcast
license after he said the channel supported the attempted coup
against him. Two other channels, Venevision and Televen, toned
down their criticism of the government to remain on air, Bisbal
said. Much of  Venezuela ’s private media is protecting itself
from suffering a similar fate to that of RCTV by practicing
self-censorship, Bisbal said.  “Venevision and Televen have a similar philosophy of news
equilibrium,” Bisbal said. “Achieving neutrality isn’t
possible. We’re looking at owners of television stations who are
more interested in saving their companies than reporting on the
reality of the country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 