-- Volatility Calmed Amid Worst Loss for Treasuries Since 2010
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-05-28T11:42:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/volatility-becalmed-amid-worst-losses-for-treasuries-since-2010.html
The biggest losses for Treasuries in
more than two years and disunity among Federal Reserve officials
over the pace of economic stimulus are doing little to rattle
investors calmed by slowing inflation and too-high  unemployment .  U.S. government bonds  lost 1.27 percent including interest
this month, the most since December 2010, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Treasury Index. At the same time,
investor  expectations  for inflation have fallen, bond
strategists are cutting year-end forecasts for 10-year yields,
and options on interest-rate swaps show projected price swings
just above the six-year low reached in April.  Unemployment at 7.5 percent, estimates for the narrowest
 budget deficit  since 2008 and a 1.1 percent inflation rate are
keeping yields and volatility contained even as investors fret
while Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and some of his colleagues
disagree about when to curtail the central bank’s $85 billion a
month of bond purchases. President  Barack Obama  needs low rates
to stimulate an economy forecast to grow 2 percent this year,
below the average of 2.5 percent for the past two decades.  “We expect things to continue to go sideways for the next
couple of months with less volatility than you’ve seen this
month,” Gary Droscoski, a fixed-income  money manager  in  New
York  for GAM USA, which oversees $16 billion, said in a
telephone interview on May 22. “We really don’t buy into this
more-recent talk about re-pricing in the  bond market .”  Yields Rise  While yields on 10-year bonds rose above 2 percent last
week for the first time since March, 75 strategists surveyed by
Bloomberg cut their median forecasts for year-end rates to 2.15
percent from 2.25 percent in April. Treasury Inflation-Protected
Securities show investors anticipate an average increase of 2.26
percent in consumer prices for the next decade, down from the
2.64 percent estimated in September.  Remarks from policy makers show the central bank has yet to
reach consensus on when or how to dial back the bond-purchase
program designed to spur growth and reduce unemployment.  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  has called for
reducing stimulus at the Fed’s next meeting in June, while
Bernanke and Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley have stressed that a premature exit risks hampering
growth and roiling investors.  Bernanke’s Testimony  “A big market correction” was a probable outcome if the
Fed moved “very quickly and unexpectedly” to tighten monetary
policy, Bernanke said last week in response to a question
following testimony to Congress.  The asset-purchase programs, known as quantitative easing,
or QE, which began in 2008, have lifted the central bank’s
assets to  $3.4 trillion  from below $1 trillion five years ago.  Treasury 10-year note yields rose in each of the past four
weeks, the longest stretch since the period ended Aug. 17, to
2.01 percent as of May 24. The price of the benchmark 1.75
percent note due May 2023 fell 1/2, or $5 per $1,000 face value,
to 97 21/32. Treasuries were closed yesterday for Memorial Day.  Should yields rise as predicted by forecasters, holders
will incur losses. An investor buying $10 million in 10-year
bonds at last week’s yield would lose $49,000 if it rose to 2.2
percent by the end of this year.  The rate climbed to 2.04 percent today at 7:37 a.m. in New
York.  Even as owners of long-term Treasuries lost money this
month, forward markets suggest the 10-year yield will stay below
3 percent until at least 2017. That’s beyond the point when most
primary dealers expect debt purchases to end and for the Fed to
start raising its target rate for overnight loans between banks
from the zero to 0.25 percent that’s been in effect since
December 2008.  Dealer Forecasts  The 21 primary dealers that trade securities directly with
the Fed forecast last month that the central bank’s quantitative
easing program will end in the second quarter of 2014, with the
majority predicting the first rate increase in 2015.  One measure of projected yield swings, normalized
volatility on one-year options for 10-year U.S.  interest-rate
swaps , or  1y10y swaptions , touched 71.8 basis points on April
30, the lowest since June 2007. While it rose as high as 82.5
last week, it’s below the 111 over the past five years.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE Index, which tracks
option projections for the pace of swings in Treasuries maturing
in two to 30 years, fell to a record 48.87 on May 9. The index
rose to as high as 68.2 last week, below the average of 96.6
since 2006.  ‘Methodical’ Fed  “There are a lot of players in the market that are itching
to play a QE exit story,” Thomas Graff, who manages $3.6
billion of fixed-income assets at Brown Advisory Inc. in
Baltimore, said in a May 21 telephone interview. “People are
anxious to do that trade, to their detriment. The Fed is a lot
more methodical, a lot more deliberate than traders give them
credit for.”  Treasuries are also being supported by  foreign  holdings,
which rose 0.7 percent to $5.76 trillion in March. Overseas
investors owned 50.5 percent of the $11.4 trillion in  U.S. debt 
outstanding in March.  Foreign central banks  accounted for  $2.963 trillion of  U.S.
government debt  held in custody at the Fed on May 22, up from
$2.609 trillion at the end of 2011, government data showed.  “ Chairman Bernanke  looks powerful now but that’s because
global investors believe his forecast and the whole world has
been betting with him,” Joe Ramos, a fixed-income portfolio
manager at Lazard Asset Management, said during an interview at
the firm’s office at 30 Rockefeller Plaza on May 20.  Tightening Signal  “If the Fed signals it is stopping purchases, it would
likely signal to investors that health is returning to the
underlying economy and that would naturally lead to higher
 interest rates ,” said Ramos, whose firm oversees $155.7
billion, with about 10 percent in fixed-income assets. He
forecasts the 10-year yield to gradually move to 3 percent after
the Fed begins to scale back debt purchases.  Indications that some regional Fed presidents want to start
paring the purchases as soon as next month if data continues to
show the expansion gaining strength conflict with Bernanke’s
 comments  to Congress last week that the economy remains hampered
by high unemployment and government spending cuts, so tightening
policy too soon would endanger the recovery.  The Fed has pledged to maintain record-low borrowing costs
so as long as the  unemployment rate  remains above 6.5 percent
and the outlook for inflation doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent.  Unemployment, Income  While  unemployment  has declined to 7.5 percent in April
from 7.8 percent in September, growth will probably remain below
average amid stagnant wages.  Personal income  as a percentage of
output at 43.8 percent is the smallest since at least 1947,
according to data from the Federal Reserve Bank of  St. Louis .  As Obama and  House Republicans  disagree about taxes and
spending, the  Congressional Budget Office  said May 14 the
deficit will shrink this fiscal year to $642 billion, or 4
percent of gross domestic product, the smallest since 2008. The
CBO sees it at $342 billion, or 2 percent of GDP, by 2015.  Forecasts of inflation have declined since mid-March.
Break-even inflation rates as measured by TIPS, which represent
investors’ predictions for average consumer price increases over
the next 10 years, have fallen below the target 2.5 percent from
2.59 percent on March 14. The rise in the  consumer price index 
slowed to 1.1 percent in April from 2 percent in September.  ‘Soft’ Inflation  “As inflation expectations and even actual inflation
continues to be very soft, that’s not an indication you need to
be very fast in reducing accommodation,” Ira Jersey, an
interest-rate strategist in New York at primary dealer Credit
Suisse Group AG, said in a May 17 telephone interview.  Plosser of the Philadelphia Fed called this month for
shrinking purchases at the Fed’s next meeting in June.  San
Francisco ’s  John Williams  said the central bank “could reduce
somewhat” the pace of purchases “if all goes as hoped.” New
York Fed’s Dudley said May 21 he couldn’t “be sure which way --
up or down -- the next change will be.”  Bernanke said in response to questions following his
Congressional testimony on May 22 that debt purchases might be
adjusted in either direction as conditions warrant. We are
“trying to make an assessment to see if we’ve seen real and
sustainable progress in the labor market outlook,” he said.  Policy makers “seem to be doing everything now to reduce
the significance of tapering as they really want to make sure
the market is not going to run away from them in terms of
pricing the next policy steps,” Francis Yared, the head of
European rates strategy at primary dealer Deutsche Bank AG in
 London , said in a telephone interview May 20. The firm forecasts
the 10-year yield will end 2013 at 2.25 percent.  “The tapering simply is the Fed doing less easing,” Yared
said. “The Fed should be able to do that without causing major
disruptions in the Treasury market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  