-- Wheat Drops in Paris as Competition Seen From Russia and Ukraine
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-05-27T13:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/wheat-drops-in-paris-as-competition-seen-from-russia-and-ukraine.html
Milling wheat futures fell in Paris
amid expectations French exports of the grain face increased
competition from  Russia  and  Ukraine  in the coming season.  Ukraine, which curbed wheat exports last year after drought
hurt production, doesn’t plan to limit grain shipments in the
2013-14 marketing year, Serhiy Petrenko, an official at the
country’s agriculture ministry, said last week.  “Competition promises to be brutal in the first part of
the marketing year,” French farm adviser Agritel wrote in a
market comment today. “To free up storage space for later
crops, the Black Sea countries will be competitive from July.”  Milling wheat for November delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
the French capital declined 0.5 percent to 203.75 euros
($263.71) a metric ton as of 2:59 p.m.  Trading of grain and oilseed futures in  Chicago  is closed
today for a national holiday.  Wetter weather in southeast  Europe , Ukraine and northwest
Russia will continue into early next week, improving conditions
for developing winter grains as well as planted spring crops,
AccuWeather wrote in a forecast today.  “In the Black Sea basin we’re seeing a contrast between
Ukraine, where the rains have been relatively abundant, and
Russia, where they remain insufficient,” Agritel said.  Ukraine may reap 19.3 million metric tons of winter wheat
this year, local news agency Unian said today, citing the
national weather center’s head of agricultural meteorology. Last
year’s total wheat crop including spring-planted grain was 15.8
million tons, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Rapeseed for August delivery slipped 0.1 percent to 432.75
euros a ton in Paris, while corn for delivery in June declined
0.2 percent to 219.25 euros a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  