-- Won Erases Losses as Exporters Seen Selling Dollars; Bonds Gain
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-05-27T07:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/won-near-six-week-low-as-data-add-to-fed-policy-risk-bonds-rise.html
South Korean’s won erased losses on
speculation exporters repatriated overseas sales after the
currency fell to near a six-week low, and as global funds bought
local shares. Government bonds rose.  The won gained 0.4 percent to 1,122.41 per dollar in Seoul,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It earlier fell 0.3
percent to 1,129.90 after weakening to 1,131.43 last week, the
lowest level since April 12. The currency fell for a third week
in the five days through May 24, its longest losing streak in
two months, as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
central bank may reduce monetary stimulus that has fueled demand
for emerging-market assets.  “Exporters tend to convert overseas income when the won
declines,” said Son Eun Jeong, an analyst at Woori Futures Co.
in Seoul. “There has been strong betting on the dollar since
Bernanke’s comments, and it is difficult to say whether the  risk
aversion  has receded.”  An index of South Korea’s  consumer confidence  rose to 104
in May from 102 in April, the Bank of Korea said in a statement
today. The average monthly income of households grew 1.7 percent
in the first quarter from a year ago, the Statistics Korea said
in a May 24 statement. The rise was the smallest since the third
quarter of 2009. Foreign funds bought more Korean shares than
they sold today, ending two days of net sales.  US Data  Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  President William C.
Dudley said last week that policy makers will know in three to
four months whether the  U.S. economy  is healthy enough to
overcome  federal budget  cuts and allow the central bank to begin
reducing its record stimulus.  The U.S. Conference Board’s index of consumer sentiment
probably climbed to 71 this month from 68.1 in April, according
to the median estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
before the New York-based private research group releases the
data tomorrow. Markets in the U.S., South Korea’s second-largest
export market, are closed for a holiday today.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, fell 16 basis
points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 9.09 percent.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent  government bonds 
due March 2018 fell one basis point to 2.69 percent, prices from
Korea Exchange Inc. show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  