-- Dollar Climbs Ahead of U.S. Sentiment, Home Data; Yen Halts Gain
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-05-28T05:42:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/yen-bullish-bets-climb-to-two-month-high-on-bond-market-concern.html
The dollar rose against most of its
major peers before U.S. data today that economists say will show
 consumer confidence  improved and  home prices  gained.  The  Dollar Index  climbed amid prospects improving U.S.
fundamentals will prompt the  Federal Reserve  to taper its
monthly bond purchases of $85 billion. The yen snapped a three-day advance versus the euro as Asian stocks rose and after the
 Bank of Japan  estimated a key component of funds in the nation’s
economy reached a record amid unprecedented stimulus.  “This is an unsustainable pace of Fed purchases, and we
have to accept that’s not good monetary policy, so I think
tapering does start in the fourth quarter this year,” said
 Robert Rennie , chief currency strategist at  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney, referring to a reduction in U.S. monetary
stimulus. “On a medium-term basis, the dollar is a buy.”  The greenback jumped 1 percent to 101.97 yen as of 6:37
a.m. in London from yesterday and added 0.1 percent to $1.2923
per euro. The yen slid 0.9 percent to 131.78 per euro.  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, added 0.1 percent to 83.799. Markets in the
U.S. and U.K. were closed yesterday for public holidays.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares advanced 0.4 percent,
snapping five days of losses and sapping demand for lower-yielding, safer assets.  The Conference Board’s index of U.S.  consumer sentiment 
probably climbed to 71 this month, the highest since November,
from 68.1 in April, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The S&P/Case-Shiller
index of property values in 20 U.S. cities may have risen 10.2
percent in March from a year earlier, the biggest jump since
April 2006, economists forecast.  Record Funds  The dollar has strengthened 5.3 percent this year, the
biggest gainer among the 10 developed-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen has fallen 12
percent, while the euro has climbed 2.9 percent.  “I expect to see further yen weakness as economic
indicators improve in the U.S. and other countries,” said  Yuji Kameoka , the chief currency strategist at Daiwa Securities Co.
in Tokyo, Japan’s second-biggest brokerage. “Japan’s monetary
easing will underpin the yen’s decline.”  The BOJ estimates that deposits it holds in custody for
financial companies will rise to a record 72.4 trillion yen
($710 billion) today. The current-account balance is a part of
the monetary base, which the central bank plans to double in two
years as it buys more than 7 trillion yen of  government bonds 
every month to end 15 years of deflation.  Necessary Steps  BOJ policy board member Ryuzo Miyao said today that the
central bank has taken all necessary easing steps for the time
being. The nation’s economy has started to pick up, he said at
the Foreign Correspondents’ Club of  Japan  in Tokyo today.  Separate data from the central bank showed today  prices 
that companies pay for services fell 0.4 percent in April from a
year earlier, compared with the 0.2 percent decline estimated by
economists. The  corporate-services-price index  is used to
measure economic conditions and referred to for monetary-policy
decisions, according to the central bank’s website.  “The BOJ is having difficulty executing monetary policy as
is,” said Westpac’s Rennie. “It would be extremely unlikely
that we see further monetary-policy stimulus going forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  