-- Zoomlion Bonds Fall, Stock Halted After Report on Sales
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-05-27T05:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-27/zoomlion-bonds-fall-stock-halted-after-report-on-sales.html
Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science and
Technology Co. , China’s second-largest construction equipment
maker, halted  stock trading  and saw its bonds decline after a
report on Sina.com accused it of falsifying sales.  Shares were suspended in Shenzhen and Hong Kong after the
report, and trading will resume once the company issues a filing
on the matter, Changsha-based Zoomlion said in a statement
today. The report on Sina.com was by xkb.com, the website of
Guangzhou-based Xin Kuai Bao Newspaper.  News reports questioning Zoomlion’s sales data are forcing
the company to halt stock trading for a second time this year.
Chinese companies’ finances have drawn increased scrutiny after
short seller  Carson Block ’s Muddy Waters LLC uncovered
irregularities including those at now-bankrupt Sino-Forest Corp.
in 2011.  “This has happened a few too many times in the past six
months for it to be forgotten or swept under the rug,” Vik Chopra, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sun Hung Kai Financial Ltd.
wrote in an e-mail. “The company has to take drastic action.”  Hong Xiaoming, a vice president in charge of the finance
department, said in a mobile-phone text message that the company
will issue a clarification today. In January, Zoomlion halted
trading on its  shares (000157)  in Hong Kong after Ming Pao Daily cited an
unsigned letter that alleged the company’s sales were
exaggerated. Zoomlion has repeatedly denied the allegations.  Bonds Slump  Zoomlion’s $600 million of 6.125 percent bonds due December
2022 slumped as much as 2.6 cents on the dollar to 94.9 cents
today in Hong Kong, according to Bloomberg prices. The bonds
were quoted at 95 cents as of 1 p.m., the lowest level since
March 4 and heading for the biggest daily decline since Feb. 4,
Bloomberg prices show. Its Hong Kong-traded stock has slumped 31
percent this year.  The construction-equipment maker and bigger rival  Sany
Heavy Industry Co. (600031)  also face a drop in orders as  China ’s slowing
economic growth and government curbs on the property market sap
demand. Zoomlion’s first-quarter profit plummeted 72 percent,
the company said last month.  Zoomlion makes equipment including concrete pumps, cranes
and excavators. Chairman Zhan Chunxin said in January that sales
increased last year after the company offered new products and
hired more people.  China’s growth unexpectedly slowed to 7.7 percent in the
first quarter while remaining above the government’s full-year
target of 7.5 percent. Data earlier this month on fixed-asset
investment and factory production missed forecasts and gauges of
manufacturing and service industries declined. The economy
expanded 7.8 percent in 2012, the slowest pace in 13 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  