-- 
Jihad Jane Conspirators Indicted in Philadelphia for Supporting Terrorists

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-10-20T17:50:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/-jihad-jane-conspirators-indicted-in-philadelphia-for-aiding-terror-plot.html
Two people were indicted in
Philadelphia on charges they supported terrorists in the “Jihad
Jane” terror plot.  Ali Charaf Damache, 46, an Algerian man who resided in
Ireland, and Mohammad Hassan Khalid, 18, a Pakistani citizen
residing in Maryland, with one count of conspiring to provide
material support to terrorists. Damache was also charged with
one count of attempted  identity theft  to facilitate an act of
international terrorism, Philadelphia U.S. Attorney Zane Memeger
said today in a statement.  “Today’s indictment, which alleges a terrorist conspiracy
involving individuals around the globe who connected via the
Internet -- including a teenager and two women living in America
-- underscores the evolving nature of violent extremism,” Lisa Monaco, assistant U.S. attorney general for national security,
said in the statement.  Damache, also known as “theblackflag” and Khalid
allegedly helped Colleen LaRose, also known as Jihad Jane,
provide logistical and financial support and recruitment
services in a plot to kill overseas. LaRose pleaded guilty in
February on charges she plotted to recruit terrorists and murder
Swedish cartoonist Lars Vilks. She is awaiting sentencing with
another woman, Jamie Paulin Ramirez, who pleaded guilty in March
to charges she conspired with LaRose to support and train
terrorists.  Extradition From Ireland  Prosecutors intend to seek Damache’s extradition from
Ireland where he was arrested in March last year on unrelated
charges. Khalid, who was arrested in Ellicott City,  Maryland , in
July, will make his first court appearance next week. If
convicted Damache faces as much as 45 years in prison and Khalid
faces a potential sentence of 15 years, prosecutors said.  Khalid will plead not guilty to the charges, attorney
Jeffrey Lindy said in a phone interview.  “We’re very disappointed and we’re going to vigorously
fight this,” Lindy said about the indictment.  According to the indictment, Damache and Khalid helped
devise and coordinate a “jihad” organization of men and women
from Europe and the U.S. The group was divided into teams for
planning, research, action, recruitment and finance, prosecutors
said in the statement. Some traveled to  South Asia  for
explosives training and returned to  Europe  to “wage violent
jihad,” prosecutors said. The group allegedly sought women who
had passports and the ability to travel to and around Europe.  The case is U.S. v. Ali Charaf Damache, Mohammad Hassan
Khalid, 11-420, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
 Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in federal court in Philadelphia at
   spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  