-- 
‘Moneyball’ Keeps A’s Victors on Screen as Sabermetric Rivals Win on Field

-- B y   J u s t i n   F o x
-- 
2011-10-20T04:00:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/-moneyball-keeps-a-s-victors-on-screen-as-sabermetric-rivals-win-on-field.html
The Oakland Athletics -- the 2002
version -- keep winning, while  Major League Baseball  for the
most part has passed them by.  As the  St. Louis Cardinals  and the  Texas Rangers  meet in
the World Series, “Moneyball,” starring  Brad Pitt  as A’s
General Manager Billy Beane, is treating movie-goers to the tale
of how Oakland a decade ago rebuilt into a 103-game winner after
the departure of three stars it couldn’t afford to keep.  It’s also created a debate over what the A’s run of success
but not quite triumph from 2000 through 2006, and the team’s
subsequent failure to put together a winning season, really
means, according to the Oct. 24 issue of Bloomberg Businessweek.  As recounted in the 2003 Michael Lewis book upon which the
movie is based, Beane was among the first high-level baseball
executives to embrace sabermetrics, commonly known in the
business world as data analytics. Through the statistics, Lewis
wrote, Beane exploited inefficiencies in the market for talent
and built a low-budget team that triumphed over richer foes.  The book quickly became a business classic, making brainy
iconoclasm seem heroic. Plus, baseball has two characteristics
that exist in business only in the abstract: a level playing
field and truly reliable performance metrics. Cause and effect
are clearer, and successful behaviors and counterproductive ones
can be isolated.  But the most useful lessons to be drawn from the recent
history of the A’s -- and sports in general -- may not be the
ones celebrated in the book and movie.  Efficient Markets  The concept at the heart of “Moneyball” is the efficient
market hypothesis. This holds that on a big, transparent market,
speculators will sniff out discrepancies between asset prices
and fundamental value.  Buying underpriced assets and short-selling overpriced ones
-- arbitrage -- makes these practitioners rich and the
discrepancies disappear. Those who peruse market charts in
search of secret meanings, or buy a stock because they just read
about it, lose money. The result: an efficient market.  Scholars in recent years have attacked the belief that
financial markets approach this ideal. Emotion and
shortsightedness can prevail for long periods. Arbitragers who
are correct in their assessment of fundamental values can still
lose if the timing’s wrong. Those seeking a secret meaning or
betting a hunch sometimes get rich.  In sports, the fundamentals are there for everyone to see.
Earnings per share can be manipulated; earned run average
cannot. Yet inefficiencies persist, including one at the heart
of “Moneyball” -- on-base percentage.  Discounted Players  In the early 2000s, a team could hire a player with a high
on-base percentage but a middling batting average -- one who
walks a lot -- at a discount.  When economists Jahn K. Hakes and Raymond D. Sauer of
 Clemson University  in Clemson,  South Carolina , set out to test
what they called “the Moneyball hypothesis,” they found that
on-base percentage was deeply undervalued through the 2002
season. The price began to go up in 2003, as other teams --
notably the  Boston Red Sox  -- began to emulate Beane’s approach.
By 2004, after Lewis’s book had topped the best-seller lists,
players with high on-base percentage were no longer a bargain.  Much sports inefficiency remains. In 2002, economist David Romer of the  University of California , Berkeley, found that
National Football League coaches kick on fourth down more often
than statistics indicate they should. In several cases,
including fourth-and-goal early in games, their choices
“represent clear-cut and large departures from win-
maximization,” Romer said.  No Daredevils  This got some attention in the NFL without much change in
behavior. Going for it on fourth down is still seen as a daring
move.  B. Cade Massey of  Yale School of Management  in  New Haven ,
 Connecticut , and Richard H. Thaler of the University of Chicago
Booth School of Business looked at how top picks in the  NFL
draft  performed in comparison with those chosen later. They
found players drafted high in the first round were persistently
overvalued both in terms of the salaries they received and the
picks they could be traded for.  Thaler, a critic of the efficiency hypothesis in finance,
said in an e-mail that the football draft “is certainly less
efficient” that the stock market.  “The bad teams get the early, over-valued picks,” he
said. “The smart teams like the  New England Patriots  do not.”  There is no way to arbitrage away this inefficiency,
according to Thaler.  ‘Someone Dumb’  “About the best you can do is try to buy up a bad team,
but even this strategy will not necessarily work since someone
dumb may outbid you for the team,” he said.  The key is the owners, says Thaler’s Chicago colleague
Tobias J. Moskowitz.  “If you have a crappy owner who consistently makes bad
decisions, it is difficult to wrestle the team away from him,”
he said.  In “Scorecasting,” a book he co-wrote with L. Jon
Wertheim of  Sports Illustrated , Moskowitz offers the  Chicago
Cubs , who haven’t reached the  World Series  since 1945 and last
won baseball’s championship in 1908.  The correlation between on-field performance and game
attendance is lower for the Cubs than any other baseball team.
Wrigley Field is usually packed, so the owners have no economic
reason to field a winner.  No Gift  Poor on-field performance doesn’t necessarily drive owners
out of business, and mechanisms exist to protect the weak, from
salary caps and revenue sharing to a draft system that gives the
best picks to the worst teams. The losers may fail to take
proper advantage of the gifts but they’re still getting a gift.  Baseball has no salary cap, allowing the richest teams to
outspend the poorest by as much as 5 to 1. That’s why Lewis’s
book was subtitled, “ The Art of Winning an Unfair Game.” Yet
the team with the second-lowest payroll, the  Tampa Bay Rays , was
in the playoffs this year; none of the four teams that made it
to the League Championship Series was in the payroll Top 10.  The movie version of “Moneyball” focuses on a few
veterans acquired over the off-season, but the 2002 A’s team was
actually built around a crop of young stars drafted in the 1990s
and brought up through the farm system. Shortstop Miguel Tejada
was the  American League ’s Most Valuable Player that year. Barry Zito won the Cy Young Award as the AL’s best pitcher, after
teammates Tim Hudson and Mark Mulder were runners-up for the
honor in 2000 and 2001.  Once the team’s young stars had played long enough to be
eligible for free agency, the A’s usually could no longer afford
them. When Beane bet big to keep a player from leaving, it
failed to pay off.  In 2004, the general manager signed third baseman  Eric Chavez  to a six-year, $66 million contract. A year later, Chavez
began struggling with back, neck, and shoulder injuries.  Sometimes, in sports and in life, stuff just happens.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Fox in  New York  at 
 rratnesar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Romesh Ratnesar in New York at 
 rratnesar@bloomberg.net . 