-- 
’Flat’ World Will Take Time to Smooth Out: Pankaj Ghemawat

-- B y   P a n k a j   G h e m a w a t
-- 
2011-10-20T00:00:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/a-flat-world-will-take-a-long-time-to-smooth-itself-out-pankaj-ghemawat.html
Six years ago, Thomas Friedman
published “ The World Is Flat ,” which has sold about 4 million
copies and set the pace for global blockbusters. The book
continues to have a strong grip on people’s imaginations.  A Harvard Business Review  blog posting  from this spring
provides evidence: I conducted a  mini-survey  asking which of
three quotes about globalization came closest to reflecting
readers’ views. Of 642 respondents, more than three in five
picked the following pronouncement from Friedman over two more
moderate alternatives:  “The world got flat … [creating] a global, Web-enabled
playing field that allows for … collaboration on research and
work in real time, without regard to geography [or] distance.”  Belief that this flat world is upon us, or is imminent, is
one of few points that unite pro-globalization and anti-
globalization forces. Pro-globalizers tend to cheer this vision
of complete integration. Anti-globalizers consider it a grave
threat. Both groups have a flawed perception of the world we
live in and the degree to which globalization has shaped it.  In fact, data indicate that most people consistently
overestimate current levels of cross-border integration and
similarly underestimate the impact that distances and
differences still have in keeping countries apart. Immigration,
for example, is a contentious issue on multiple continents. Yet
only 3 percent of the world’s people actually live outside the
country in which they were born, and only 2 percent of
university students study outside their homelands.  What about the much-vaunted flow of information throughout
our hyperconnected world? Only 2 percent of telephone calls are
international, and less than 18 percent of  Internet traffic 
crosses national borders. Based on a popularity survey of online
news sites in 30 countries, most users get all but a tiny
portion -- roughly 5 percent -- of their news from domestic
sources. According to the Pew Research Center, only 20 percent
of U.S. news coverage across all types of media focuses on
international issues, and almost half of that concerns the
U.S.’s own foreign affairs.  Exports provide the most visible face of globalization, yet
even they comprise a smaller proportion of the economy than many
believe, accounting -- without double counting products that
cross a border multiple times -- for about 20 percent of world
gross domestic product.  Finally, consider capital, which is presumed to respect no
boundaries. Foreign direct investment makes up only 9 percent of
all fixed investment globally. Roughly 15 percent to 20 percent
of  venture capital  is deployed outside the investing fund’s home
country, and equity investors have only 20 percent of their
stock holdings abroad.  Upon learning such figures, many people react similarly --
concluding that if complete globalization isn’t here today, it’s
certainly coming tomorrow. Yet trend data dispel that notion,
too. Immigration intensity, along with some measures of net
capital flows as a proportion of GDP, peaked before World War I.
The ratio of foreign direct investment to GDP has broken new
ground, but only in recent years; it wasn’t until the 1990s that
this ratio surpassed levels experienced immediately prior to the
Great War.  Trade intensity -- measured in terms of exports as a
proportion of GDP -- has reached an unprecedented level of about
20 percent. But 20 is still much closer to 0 than to 100. And
recent trends aren’t all positive. The intercontinental share of
Internet traffic is decreasing, for reasons ranging from surging
peer-to-peer traffic, which tends to be relatively localized, to
the development of new switching hubs outside the U.S. (reducing
the American role as the global switching hub).  No matter how you slice the numbers, the bulk of the flow
of goods and services is domestic, not international, and will
remain so for the foreseeable future. Even the international
flows that do take place are constrained geographically. Not
only are international migration, telephone calls, trade and
direct investment small in comparison with domestic
counterparts, but more than 50 percent of international flows in
these categories are contained within distinct continental
regions.  In fact, if you double the distance between countries,
trade between them falls by half. Similarly, otherwise identical
countries trade 42 percent more if they share a common language,
47 percent more if they are part of a common trading block, 114
percent more if they share a common currency and 188 percent
more if one colonized the other at some point in history.  Understanding that the world is much less integrated than
many believe, and that distances and differences still matter,
provides breathing room to consider more calmly whether to
continue pushing forward with globalization.  The simple answer is: We should. We have expanded our
prosperity and security by broadening the circles of cooperation
to an extent that far surpasses anything our distant ancestors
could have imagined. A realistic assessment of globalization
reveals that we still have enormous capacity to benefit from
further expansion of those circles. By advancing integration, we
can extend our reach across the world, enrich our economies and,
in the long run, ease violent conflicts. Since we haven’t yet
achieved this goal, we have evidence of a simple fact: The world
is not flat.  (Pankaj Ghemawat is professor of strategic management at
IESE Business School in Barcelona and author of “World 3.0:
Global Prosperity and How to Achieve It.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:  PGhemawat@iese.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net  