-- 
Actelion Plunges After Forecasting Declining Sales in 2012

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-10-20T16:05:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/actelion-falls-most-in-five-months-on-forecast-for-sales-decline.html
Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  fell the most in more
than 19 months in Zurich trading after saying revenue will
decline in 2012 as the Swiss drugmaker faces price cuts and the
loss of market share to  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)   Actelion plunged 9.7 percent to close at 30.70 Swiss
francs, the biggest drop since March 1, 2010. The stock has
slumped 40 percent this year. Product sales next year may fall
by a low- to mid-single-digit range in local currencies, the
Allschwil, Switzerland-based company said today in a statement.  Sales of the lung drug Tracleer, which accounted for 83
percent of revenue in the first nine months of this year, are
losing ground to  Foster City , California-based Gilead’s
Letairis, which is gaining after a reference to the risk of
liver damage was removed from the drug’s label.  “This U.S. label change for Letairis is clearly having a
greater impact on Tracleer than we had assumed,” Adrian Howd,
an analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London , wrote in a report today.
“This is a decaying asset that is decaying faster” than
predicted.  The company is also experiencing pricing pressure globally,
which it expects to continue in 2012, Chief Executive Officer
Jean-Paul Clozel said on a conference call with analysts today.  Results from a late-stage trial of macitentan, Actelion’s
successor to Tracleer, are expected in the first half of next
year and may provide more long-term value in the stock,
Berenberg’s Howd said. He’s among 12 analysts who recommend
buying the stock, compared with 11 who suggest investors hold it
and one who rates it a “sell.”  Missed Estimates  Third-quarter revenue fell to 401.8 million francs ($444
million) from 445.7 million francs a year earlier, Actelion said
today, as the strength of the local currency eroded the value of
sales outside  Switzerland . Sales missed the average analyst
forecast of 415.8 million francs, based on 12 estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Analysts predicted before today’s announcement that
Actelion’s sales in 2012 would be unchanged from an estimated
1.83 billion francs for this year, according to Bloomberg data.
The company today maintained its 2011 forecast for percentage
sales growth in the mid-single digits in local currencies.  Third-quarter earnings rose 37 percent to 137.5 million
francs as reduced operating expenditure helped the company beat
the average analyst forecast of 122.5 million francs.  Franc Effect  The appreciation of the franc during the quarter wiped 135
million francs from sales, Chief Financial Officer Andrew Oakley
said on a conference call with analysts today. The company also
incurred a loss on a wrong-way bet on the currency near the end
of the quarter, after the Swiss central bank said it would cap
the value of the franc, sending it down 8.7 percent between
Sept. 5, when it made the announcement, and the end of the
quarter.  Actelion had a further loss on Greek  government bonds  it
received as payment for drugs supplied to public hospitals,
Oakley said. The company declined to quantify either loss,
though the currency hedging loss was “the dominant part,”
Roland Haefeli, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “We are evaluating all possible options to mitigate the
effect of currency on our reported results,” Oakley said in
today’s statement. “Over the next 12 months we will also make
appropriate capital allocation decisions based on operating
performance as well as the outcome of upcoming clinical
studies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  