-- 
Thai Floods Threaten Inner Bangkok as City Uses Canals to Help Drain Water

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-10-20T11:21:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/thai-floods-threaten-inner-bangkok-as-surge-of-water-penetrates-city-canal.html
Thailand’s government warned that
floodwaters may reach parts of inner Bangkok, sending stocks and
the baht lower as the government struggles to control a deluge
that has inundated thousands of factories.  Authorities opened gates to drain water through Bangkok’s
canal system to help relieve pressure on defenses in the city’s
north. The plan “won’t cause severe floods along roads” in the
capital, Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra said today.  Yingluck has vowed to protect Bangkok from floods that
forced the closure of thousands of factories to the north that
supply parts to companies such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Toyota Motor
Corp. The nation’s worst flooding in five decades has killed 320
people and left millions scrambling for dry ground.  Thailand’s benchmark SET Index fell 3.1 percent, the most
in  Asia , and the baht weakened 0.75 percent to 30.92 per dollar
as of 6 p.m. local time.  “We have to drain the water into the sea as much as we
can,” Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra told reporters in
Bangkok today. “As there are massive amounts of water, we can’t
control its direction. We will empty it through our drainage
networks at the maximum capacity.”  The government earlier today warned residents living near
Prapa canal, which runs from northern Bangkok to an area of the
city near Victory Monument along an elevated train line, to be
vigilant against floodwaters.  ‘Bangkok May Be Swamped’  “If we can’t pump water out on time, there is a chance
Bangkok may be swamped,” Pracha Promnog, head of the national
flood center, said in a phone interview with Channel 3 today.
Although Bangkok is being closely monitored “it is not a risky
zone,” Yingluck said.  Suvarnabhumi Airport ,  Thailand ’s main international
airport, is operating normally and protected with a 3.5-meter
barrier to prevent floods, Air Chief Marshal Sumet Phomanee,
chairman of airport operator Airports of Thailand Pcl, said
today by phone. In the worst-case scenario of the facility being
flooded, airlines would be asked to relocate operations to the
U-Tapao airport in the eastern province of Chonburi.  The situation is more “worrisome” near northern Bangkok’s
 Don Mueang airport , which is mostly used for domestic flights
and where the government has set up operations to manage the
floods, Sumet said. Residents in the area have parked cars on
elevated highways and moved belongings to higher floors as
waters threaten the district.  Dam Water Deluge  Rainfall about 25 percent more than the 30-year average
filled upstream dams to their capacity, prompting authorities to
release large amounts of water this month down a flood plain the
size of  Florida . The waters have affected 14,254 factories and
businesses in 20 provinces, leaving 664,567 workers at risk of
losing jobs, according to the  Labor Ministry .  Opening Bangkok’s canals “can help empty the water but not
by a lot because of the massive amount of water from the
north,” Jate Sopitpongstorn, a spokesman for the Bangkok
Metropolitan Administration, said by phone today.  It will take about 40 days for the 12 billion cubic meters
of water, enough to cover  Connecticut  a meter deep, to drain
into the Gulf of Thailand, Irrigation Department spokesman
Boonsanong Suchatpong said yesterday. The floods have swamped
industrial estates north of the capital with as much as three
meters of water.  Japanese carmakers led by Toyota, Honda Motor Co. and
Nissan Motor Co. may lose more than $500 million because of the
floods, according to Kohei Takahashi, an analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in  Tokyo . Computer disk-drive maker Western Digital
Corp., which counts Hewlett-Packard Co. and Dell Inc. as
customers, may see exports from Thailand slide as much as 40
percent, Industry Minister Wannarat Charnnukul said Oct. 18.  “It’s a revival of the nightmare for the Japanese
manufacturers” following the March 11 record earthquake and
tsunami,  Yuuki Sakurai , president at Fukoku Capital Management,
told Bloomberg Television today from Tokyo. “They may have to
start off from zero again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  