-- 
Taiwan Dollar Weakens as Europe Debt Crisis Dims Growth Outlook

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-10-20T08:18:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/taiwan-dollar-weakens-as-europe-debt-crisis-dims-growth-outlook.html
Taiwan’s dollar slipped and
 government bonds  rose on concern  Europe ’s lingering debt crisis
will slow the global economy, damping demand for the island’s
exports.  Overseas orders, an indication of shipments in the next one
to three months, grew 2.72 percent last month from a year
earlier, the slowest pace in two years, the government reported
toward the end of  currency trading . The median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a 3.46 percent
increase. Global funds sold $322.6 million more local stocks
than they bought today, taking net sales for the year to $10.1
billion, according to exchange data.  “Sentiment is fragile, traders don’t dare take overnight
positions as they’re still skeptical whether Europe will find a
solution to solve the crisis,” said  Frances Cheung , a Hong
Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “There’re export
numbers from other parts of Asia, like  Singapore , showing
shipments are already affected by the weaker economic outlook.”  Taiwan’s dollar closed 0.6 percent weaker at NT$30.269
against its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc.  The yield on the 2 percent bonds due July 2016 fell one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.045 percent, prices
from Gretai Securities Market show.  Singapore’s non-oil domestic exports fell 4.5 percent in
September from a year earlier, data showed this week. That
compared with a 5.1 percent gain in August and a 3.5 percent
rise forecast by economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Stocks indexes slipped across  Asia  today after a report of
a split between France and Germany over the European bailout
fund talks. The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional stocks
dropped 1.2 percent, while Taiwan’s benchmark equity index fell
1.5 percent.  The overnight money-market rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, was little changed at 0.395 percent,
according to a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank
Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  