-- 
Taiwan Referendum Needed Before Peace Talks With China, President Ma Says

-- B y   A d e l a   L i n
-- 
2011-10-20T05:30:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/taiwan-referendum-needed-before-peace-talks-with-china-president-ma-says.html
Taiwan  President Ma Ying-jeou said
his government would hold a national referendum before engaging
in peace talks with China, a day after his opponent in
presidential elections next year said a treaty would undermine
the island’s sovereignty and threaten its democracy.  Tsai Ing-wen, the chairwoman of the opposition  Democratic
Progressive Party , said yesterday that Taiwan can’t “ignore the
risk” of signing a peace agreement with China, which  remains
“an authoritarian state.” Ma made the comments in a live
broadcast today on CTiTV.  Ma, 61, said on Oct. 17 that he hopes to sign a peace pact
with China within 10 years, provided there is domestic consensus
and trust on both sides, and it is done under the supervision of
Taiwan’s parliament. Tsai says that while she’s willing to work
with  China , Taiwan’s future must be determined by its people and
not the island’s cross-strait neighbor.  “The effect of a peace agreement depends on the
credibility of the signers,” Tsai said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  Ma said today that the issue of peace talks with China
can’t be avoided within the next decade and that he hadn’t set a
timetable for when a peace agreement should be signed, according
to a statement on the President’s website.  Taiwan will hold presidential elections on Jan. 14 and Tsai
is the island’s first female nominee. China regards Taiwan as an
integral part of its territory and has threatened to invade if
the government there makes moves toward formal independence. As
of December, China had as many as 1,200 short-range ballistic
missiles deployed opposite Taiwan, according to the U.S. Defense
Department’s  annual review  of the mainland’s military.  Six-Decade Ban  Ma, who heads the Kuomintang party that fought China’s
communists six decades ago, reversed the DPP’s pro-independence
stance when he took office in 2008. Taiwan has since signed 15
economic agreements with the mainland in a policy that Tsai has
said is “boxed in a frame set by China.” Ma has also resumed
direct flights with China, eased investment restrictions and
allowed Chinese visitors after a six-decade ban.  The president on Oct. 17 reiterated his mainland policy of
“no unification, no independence and no use of force under the
framework of the  Republic of China  constitution.”  In the 2008 presidential election, the KMT beat the DPP 58
percent to 42 percent by pledging to abandon a pro-independence
stance in favor of strengthening economic relations with China.
Support for Ma fell three percentage points this month from
September to 43 percent, while Tsai’s approval rating was
unchanged at 38 percent, the Taipei-based TVBS Poll Center said
Oct. 15.  Ma’s policies run the risk of “making political
concessions in exchange for economic benefits,” Tsai, a former
vice premier who has a doctorate in law from the  London School
of Economics , said in a speech on Feb. 23. Tsai served as the
head of the Mainland Affairs Council, Taiwan’s top China
policymaking agency, from 2000 to 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  