-- 
Alabama Immigration Law Robs Citizens of Their Own Future: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-20T23:00:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/alabama-immigration-law-robs-citizens-of-their-own-future-view.html
Herman Cain  has talked about an
electrified fence.  Michele Bachmann  prefers a “double-
walled” model to keep out “anchor babies.” And everyone but
Texas Governor Rick Perry agrees that young illegal
immigrants who have grown up in the U.S. shouldn’t have the
same access to higher education as the children of
citizens.  As they seek to appease nativist rumblings on the
right, Republican candidates for president appear willing
to take ever-tougher approaches toward illegal immigration.  Perry, the self-described “authentic conservative” of
the field, is the  exception . As governor of a border state
with more than 9 million Hispanic residents, he signed into
law a Dream Act enabling undocumented immigrants to attend
Texas state schools at in-state tuition rates. “We need to
be educating these children because they will become a drag
on our society,” Perry explained at a debate in  Orlando ,
 Florida , last month. His opponents piled on, and Perry’s
standing in the polls  tanked .  What sort of world would Perry’s opponents prefer? For
a vision of an anti-immigrant Eden, Alabama is a good place
to start. On Oct. 14, a federal appeals court temporarily
blocked elements of the state’s new immigration law,
enjoining it from forcing schools to determine their
students’ legal status or requiring police to file criminal
charges against immigrants who lack federal papers and
appear to be in the country illegally.  No Border State  Unlike  Arizona , which made waves with its strict anti-
immigration law, Alabama isn’t a border state -- and it’s
hardly a beacon for illegal immigrants. According to Census
 data , only 4 percent of its population is Hispanic and only
3 percent is foreign-born. (The comparable numbers
nationally are 16 percent and 12 percent.) Yet immigrants
who came north to work in  Alabama ’s fields and chicken-
processing plants have inspired what backers of the
legislation known as HB 56 proudly call the nation’s
“toughest” anti-immigration law. It requires police to
demand proof of legal status if they have “reasonable
suspicion” that someone is in the country illegally; it
bars undocumented immigrants from using a wide range of
public services and prohibits anyone from transporting an
illegal immigrant in a vehicle.  The law’s constitutionality will be decided in due
time; its ill-advisedness is already clear.  Here are some of the law’s immediate consequences:
Fearful immigrant parents, mostly Hispanic, have pulled
their children out of Alabama schools. While some of the
state’s more than 2,000 absent students have returned to
classes, others have not. Uneducated children of
undocumented parents are unlikely to be a boon to the
nation’s social fabric or to economic growth.  Due to what one commercial landscaper called Alabama’s
“negative atmosphere,” legal Hispanic residents are leaving
the state, creating shortages of workers in construction
and agriculture. As Bloomberg News  reported  in June, the
post-tornado reconstruction of Tuscaloosa has been hindered
by a lack of skilled labor, partly because, after the law
was passed, Hispanic tradesmen began leaving the state.
Meantime, during the recent harvest, tomatoes and other
crops were left rotting in north Alabama’s fields.  There are other economic costs. Rental properties are
going empty; stores and restaurants catering to immigrants
have lost customers. Supporters of the legislation argue
that by kicking employed immigrants out, they have created
an equal number of job openings for unemployed Alabamans.  Zero-Sum Game  Employment isn’t a zero-sum game. One reason job
growth in  Texas  has been high is a steady influx of
immigrants -- from  Mexico  and from other states. If
immigration killed economies,  New York ,  Los Angeles  and
other cities with high numbers of illegal immigrants would
be disaster zones. It’s worth noting that 40 percent of
last year’s Fortune 500 companies were founded by
immigrants or the children of immigrants.  So what’s the answer? The Obama administration has
been far more aggressive than its predecessor in cracking
down on illegal immigration. It has significantly
strengthened border enforcement, increased border seizures
and deported a record number of illegal immigrants. None of
these actions has noticeably mitigated the challenges posed
by illegal immigration or anti-immigrant sentiment. Call it
“amnesty” if you like, but a pathway to citizenship for
undocumented immigrants remains the only sensible
resolution.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 