-- 
All Blacks Pick Thomson on Bench in Only Change for Rugby World Cup Final

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-21T02:05:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/all-blacks-name-unchanged-team-for-rugby-world-cup-final-thomson-on-bench.html
New Zealand named an unchanged
starting lineup to face  France  in the Oct. 23 Rugby World Cup
final in Auckland as it seeks to end a 24-year title drought.  Adam Thomson  returns from injury to take the loose
forward’s spot on the replacements’ bench in the only change to
the 22-man squad that beat Australia 20-6 in the semifinals. He
takes over from Victor Vito.  “Adam Thomson’s played big Test match football so he’s had
that experience,” All Blacks coach  Graham Henry  said at a news
conference in Auckland. “He played against the French in the
first round and played well so he’s got more of a track record
of playing in internationals at this level. It’s just that one
of the guys has been here before.”  Top-ranked  New Zealand , which won its only world
championship in 1987, is on a 26-match winning run at Auckland’s
Eden Park, including a 37-17 victory over the French in their
Sept. 24 Pool A meeting. France was the last team to beat the
All Blacks at the stadium in July 1994.  New Zealand captain  Richie McCaw  will combine with
blindside flanker  Jerome Kaino  and No. 8 Kieran Read in the back
row for a record 21st Test, one more than the trio of McCaw,
Rodney So’oialo and Jerry Collins.  They’ll go up against a French trio of Thierry Dusautoir,
Julien Bonnaire and Imanol Harinordoquy that Henry described as
“world class.”  Back-Row Accolades  No. 8 Harinordoquy was voted man of the match in France’s
upset of  England  in the quarterfinals, while open-side flanker
Bonnaire took the honor in the 9-8 semifinal win over Wales.
Blindside flanker Dusautoir, who also captains the team, was one
of the six players shortlisted for the International Rugby
Board’s 2011 Player of the Year award two days ago.  Two-time runner-up France advanced to the knockout stages
after back-to-back losses to the All Blacks and Tonga in the
pool phase. It’s the first time a team has reached a World Cup
final having lost two matches at the tournament.  “This French team, we’re not sure who’s going to turn
up,” Henry added. “They’re enjoying the underdog tag, but we
think they’re a pretty good rugby team with some outstanding
players.”  France coach Marc Lievremont, who two days ago announced an
unchanged starting lineup for the third straight match, named
his seven bench players today. Damien Traille was recalled to
replace Cedric Heymans in the only change.  Traille, who can cover several backline positions, hasn’t
featured at the tournament since being taken off at half time of
France’s 20-point loss to New Zealand last month.  NEW ZEALAND: Israel Dagg, Cory Jane, Conrad Smith, Ma’a
Nonu, Richard Kahui, Aaron Cruden, Piri Weepu, Kieran Read,
Richie McCaw (captain), Jerome Kaino, Sam Whitelock, Brad Thorn,
Owen Franks, Keven Mealamu, Tony Woodcock.  Replacements:  Andrew Hore ,  Ben Franks ,  Ali Williams , Adam
Thomson,  Andy Ellis , Stephen Donald, Sonny Bill Williams.  FRANCE: Maxime Medard, Vincent Clerc, Aurelien Rougerie,
Maxime Mermoz, Alexis Palisson, Morgan Parra, Dimitri Yachvili,
Imanol Harinordoquy, Julien Bonnaire, Thierry Dusautoir
(captain), Lionel Nallet, Pascal Pape, Nicolas Mas, William
Servat, Jean-Baptiste Poux.  Replacements: Dimitri Szarzewski, Fabien Barcella, Julien
Pierre, Fulgence Ouedraogo, Francois Trinh-Duc, Jean Marc
Doussain, Damien Traille.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Auckland at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  