-- 
All Blacks Ignore Bookmakers Writing Off France for Rugby World Cup Final

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-20T11:57:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/all-blacks-will-ignore-bookmakers-writing-off-france-for-rugby-world-cup.html
New Zealand  will try to win its
first  Rugby World Cup  since 1987 in two days against a France
team given little or no chance by bookmakers. The All Blacks say
they are ignoring the betting market.  The host nation takes a 26-match winning streak at
Auckland’s Eden Park into the final and is rated the 1-10
favorite by local bookmaker TAB, meaning a successful NZ$1 (79
cents) bet returns a profit of 10 New Zealand cents. France,
seeking its first world championship, is the 6-1 outsider.  France has “done exactly what we’ve done,” All Blacks
assistant coach Steve Hansen said yesterday at the team’s hotel.
“They’ve earned the right to arrive at  Eden Park  and playing on
Sunday at nine o’clock. It’s a two-horse race and both teams
will be doing their utmost to win it.”  Paddy Power Plc disagrees with Hansen’s assessment. The
Irish bookmaker paid out 650,000 euros ($894,000) two days ago
on the All Blacks winning the Webb Ellis Cup as they prepare to
take on the only team in the tournament’s seven editions to have
reached the final after losing two group games.  New Zealand has won three-quarters of its 483 Test matches
since 1903, giving it international rugby’s best winning
percentage. It beat France by 20 points in Auckland on Sept. 24.
A week later, France slumped to its first  World Cup  defeat to a
so-called Tier Two nation in a 19-14 loss to Tonga.  France, playing in its third final after finishing as
runner-up in 1987 and 1999, rebounded by defeating  England  in
the quarterfinals and  Wales  in the semis. The French were also
the bookmakers’ outsiders on both those occasions.  ‘Small Chance’  “We know we are far from being favorites, given our level
of the game at the moment,” France open-side flanker Julien
Bonnaire, who was voted the man of the match in the 9-8 win over
Wales, told reporters yesterday. “We have a small chance here
and we need to take it. We will need a perfect match.”  None of the six previous world champions lost a pool game
on their way to the title.  The  top-ranked  All Blacks take a 100 percent record into
their first World Cup final since 1995, having topped Pool A
with the maximum 20 competition points. They beat  Argentina  33-
10 in the quarterfinals before inflicting two-time champion
 Australia ’s biggest defeat in a World Cup knockout match with a
20-6 victory in the semifinals.  Still, New Zealand’s progress hasn’t gone unhindered.  Fly-half  Dan Carter , the record points scorer in elite
Tests, suffered a tournament-ending injury on Oct. 1 and his
backup tore the same tendon in his groin eight days later,
leaving 22-year-old Aaron Cruden as the team’s first-choice
playmaker. Captain  Richie McCaw  is playing with a foot problem
that has left the open-side flanker unable to train for most of
the week in between matches.  ‘Expect the Unexpected’  Carter, who’s been helping Cruden out with advice, warned
the All Blacks to “expect the unexpected” against  France ,
which scored upset victories in the 1999 semifinals and the 2007
quarterfinals when New Zealand was also heavily favored.  Twelve years ago, France rallied from 14 points down in the
second half to oust New Zealand 43-31 in  London . The All Blacks’
20-18 defeat in Cardiff eight years later led to calls for coach
 Graham Henry  and his assistants to be fired. They were
reappointed following a review. McCaw captained the team that
day and was also criticized for failing to change tactics.  “They are our arch-nemesis at World Cup time,” Carter
said yesterday. “They’re such a dangerous side, especially when
their backs are against the wall and they are having a lot of
doubters. That’s when they step up and they’ve shown that in
2007 and also in 1999. The French are the best at doing
something to surprise us.”  ‘French History’  Being rated as the long-shot to win the final may work in
France’s favor, according to New Zealand center  Conrad Smith .  “The French will have it easy,” Smith said earlier this
week in Auckland. “Everyone will be writing them off.”  The final, a repeat of the 1987 championship decider that
New Zealand won 29-9, will be France’s 10th Test match against
the All Blacks at Eden Park. The French have  two wins  there and
were the last team to beat the New Zealanders at the venue in
July 1994.  Although the odds are against them, France winger Vincent
Clerc said the third-ranked French are capable of producing
another upset to take their country’s first World Cup and extend
New Zealand’s title drought in its national sport.  “We are drawn to difficulty and I think it allows us to
bring out the best in ourselves and it allows us to believe in
the impossible,” Clerc said. “We will try to write French
history. It is not easy but we have the tools. You can never
predict what will happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Auckland at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  