-- 
Halloween’s Pagan Themes Fill West’s Faith Vacuum: Amity Shlaes

-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 
2011-10-20T00:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/halloween-s-pagan-themes-fill-west-s-faith-vacuum-amity-shlaes.html
Seems like Americans just want
it to be Halloween all year. The holiday just keeps getting
more popular. Seven in 10 expect to celebrate it in some
way this Oct. 31, up from about six in 10 last year,
according to a National Retail Federation  report .  This is the most in the nine years the NRF has been
tracking. In 2011, Americans are also planning to spend
more than other years, an average of $72 each. Total
outlays by consumers are expected to reach $6.86 billion
this fall.  Why the surge in popularity for an ancient harvest
ritual? Some of the factors that account for it are as
harmless and loveable as a new 12-pound pumpkin from the
farm. Others have the capacity to spook.  Start with the good that the holiday now demonstrates.
Thirty or 40 years ago, Halloween seemed to offer only more
evidence of the failures of our cities. There were plenty
of neighborhoods -- Kenwood on  Chicago ’s South Side, Adams
Morgan in  Washington , and Midwood in New York spring to
mind like ghouls -- where the night was best known for the
opportunities it provided for muggers or for teen gangs to
hurl those pumpkins against someone’s front door. “Newark
Braces for Halloween,” read a 1967 New York Times headline
over a nervous article describing riot-prevention measures,
including street patrols by clergymen.  Go farther back, before the 1940s, and Halloween had
lethal connotations. In the Old South, “Mischief Night,” on
Oct. 30, offered the Ku Klux Klan cover to put on their own
costumes and wreak some of their worst damage. A mild
example shows up in the 1960 novel “ To Kill a Mockingbird ,”
when on Halloween night a local gets revenge for lawyer
Atticus Finch’s representation of a black man in court by
attacking his son Jem and breaking his arm.  Unifying Ghoulishness  Today the same sidewalks and roads where the eggs were
once thrown are often packed with cheerful trick-or-
treaters. No doubt about it, in many places Halloween
reflects urban revival. It also reflects a cultural coming
together; there’s something comforting in knowing that, no
matter what their background, kids will be equally
terrified by a deluxe “ predator mask with helmet ” or a
“ whispers hooded mask ,” to name two items on sale at
Halloween websites this year. A child once told me he and
his friends didn’t look at the mask; they looked at the
eyeholes and wondered what was in there. There’s something
unifying in the ghoulishness of the spaces between the
teeth in the carved pumpkin’s grin.  Unmask Halloween, however, and you’ll also find some
disconcerting features. Christmas and Easter may be
secularized these days, relative to their past, but they
remain Christian holidays. People value Halloween, like
Valentine’s Day, because they can tell themselves that it’s
not merely secularized but actually secular, which is to
say, not Christian, Jewish, Hindu or Muslim.  The Living Dead  But as much as we’d like it to be, Halloween isn’t
secular. It is pagan. There’s nothing else to call a set of
ceremonies in which people utter magical phrases, flirt
with the night and evoke the dead. One of my family’s
favorite Halloween props was a hand that moved, as though
from the netherworld, when you reached to collect a few
pieces of candy corn. Necromancy is a regular part of
Halloween games. Zombie masks are one of this year’s top-
sellers. As grouchy theologians used to point out, the
origin of Halloween was most likely Samhain, an ancient
Celtic holiday on which the dead, in some accounts,
supposedly returned to visit.  Modern Myths  There’s a reason for the pull of the pagan. In the
U.S., we’ve been vigorously scrubbing our schools and other
public spaces of traces of monotheistic religion for many
decades now. Such scrubbing leaves a vacuum. The great
self-deception of modern life is that nothing will be
pulled into that vacuum. Half a century ago, the
psychologist Carl Jung noted the heightened interest in
UFOs, and concluded that the paranormal was “modern myth,”
a replacement for religion.  Children or adults who today relish every detail of
zombie culture or know every bit of wizarding minutiae are
seeking something to believe in. That church, mosque and
synagogue are so controversial that everyone prefers the
paranormal as neutral ground is disconcerting. There’s
something unsettling about the education of a child who
comfortably enumerates the rules for surviving zombie
apocalypse but finds it uncomfortable to enumerate the
rules of his grandparents’ faith, if he knows them.  The Spaces Between  Perhaps when walking down your street this Oct. 31,
you’ll see a child in an Aslan costume, or one dressed as
Caspian,  C.S. Lewis ’s prince. The “Narnia” series was
Lewis’s premeditated effort to lure kids to Jesus Christ
through myth. The manipulative Lewis was on to something:
Parents can keep children away from religion, but they
can’t stop children from believing in something.  Fans of the orange holiday may want to pause for a
moment to look at the empty spaces between its rituals, as
with the pumpkin’s smile. Some of us forgo it to dedicate
ourselves to one faith or another. But you don’t have to
reject Halloween to ask what it may be replacing.  (Amity Shlaes is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:  Amity Shlaes  at
 amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 