-- 
Amyris, ETH Bioenergia to Make Fuel Precursor in Brazil

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-10-20T18:03:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/amyris-eth-bioenergia-to-make-fuel-precursor-in-brazil.html
Amyris Inc. (AMRS) , a U.S. biotechnology
company, formed a joint venture with ETH Bioenergia SA to
process sugar cane into a raw material for fuel, its sixth such
agreement in  Brazil .  The venture will start producing farnesene, a chemical that
can be transformed into fuel, in 2014, Emeryville, California-
based Amyris said today in a statement. It will have access to
an ETH Bioenergia mill that can process up to 2 million tons of
cane annually for the venture.  More Brazilian sugar-cane mills have started selling energy
to the national grid in recent years to reduce their dependence
on the sugar and ethanol markets. Selling farnesene, Amyris’s
15-carbon specialty chemical that can also be transformed into
lubricants, would protect revenue further.  “We’re attractive to mills because we can help them
diversify and expand the portfolio of products they offer,”
Joel Velasco, Amyris’ senior vice president of external
relations, said in a telephone interview today.  ETH Bioenergia, which is based in  Sao Paulo  and controlled
by engineering and construction company Odebrecht SA, is
focusing on ethanol production, he said. Prices for sugar have
gained 133 percent to about 27 cents a pound during the past 36
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  15 Million Tons  Amyris operates a small farnesene production plant in Sao
Paulo state and is building facilities at mills owned by  Sao
Martinho SA (SMTO3)  and  Paraiso Bioenergia SA  that will enable it to
process up to 3 million tons of cane, he said.  The company has formed agreements with  Cosan Ltd. (CZZ) ,  Bunge
Ltd. (BG)  and Guarani SA and will have access to about 15 million
tons of cane-crushing capacity by 2015, he said.  Amyris plans to produce as much as 50 million liters (13.2
million gallons) of farnesene next year from facilities around
the world, he said.  “We don’t just make fuel for the car from it, but the
tires and the dashboard,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net  