-- 
Manchester United Soccer Team Takes Old Trafford Game to Hedge Fund Alley

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-10-20T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/manchester-united-soccer-team-takes-old-trafford-game-to-hedge-fund-alley.html
In December of 2009 an unexpected
package arrived at the headquarters of Concha y Toro, the 127-
year-old winemaker in Santiago,  Chile .  Inside was an ornate box lined with black silk and holding
a leather soccer ball with the Concha y Toro insignia stenciled
next to that of the sender’s: Manchester United. An accompanying
book laid out the financial benefits of a partnership with the
 soccer club . Within 36 hours, United executives were on the
phone, outlining an agreement signed in May 2010.  The 19-time English champion introduced the Chilean company
as its first global wine partner four months later at United’s
Old Trafford stadium. Luxury boxes and lounges in the stadium
serve only Concha y Toro’s Casillero del Diablo wines and the
company’s ads appear on the digital billboards seen on
broadcasts of United home games.  The courting of Concha y Toro epitomizes how United
officials have made the club among the most valuable brands in
sports, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Oct. 24 issue.  A 2007 survey conducted by London-based TNS Sport found
that the team has 333 million supporters around the world. Last
season, when United won its fourth English Premier League title
in five years and made it to the finals of the European Cup, a
cumulative audience of 4.2 billion watched its matches on
television -- the equivalent of a  Super Bowl  every week,
according to Futures Sport & Entertainment.  Aon, Mister Potato  The club’s visibility has allowed it to assemble a roster
of more than 30 global corporate partners ranging from Aon, the
Chicago-based insurer that pays 20 million pounds ($31.5
million) a year to put its logo on the team’s jerseys; to  Nike
Inc. (NKE) , which is in the final two years of a 13-year, 303 million
pound agreement to produce all team apparel; to Mister Potato,
the Malaysian brand that inked a deal in September to become
United’s official “savory snack partner.”  “What’s the pitch?” asks Pierre Pang, deputy general
manager for sales and marketing at Mamee-Double Decker, which
owns Mister Potato. “Three hundred and thirty-three million
fans globally, with close to two-thirds coming from  Asia . That’s
basically along the lines of where our strategy is: The vision
of being Asian No. 1 for the potato snack segment.”  Last June, United said it had revenue of 331.4 million
pounds for the 2010-11 season, a club record and by far the most
among English clubs -- though about 95 million pounds less than
 Spain ’s Real  Madrid , which is soccer’s biggest moneymaker.  Unlike U.S. sports, where salary caps and revenue-sharing
agreements constrain the ability of rich teams to dominate, in
soccer cash is still king. Chelsea,  Manchester City , and others
have catapulted themselves into the European elite thanks to
billionaire owners willing to spend any amount to win.  Reform  European soccer’s governing body says beginning in 2014 it
will consider banning teams that spend significantly more than
they make. That would strengthen the position of clubs with the
most revenue -- such as Manchester United, Real Madrid, and
Barcelona -- which could use it to buy the best talent. The
governing body’s proposed fix could end up locking in the status
quo for years.  The people charged with selling the United brand work out
of an office 200 miles south of Manchester in the London
district of Mayfair, also known as Hedge Fund Alley. The office
has oak-paneled conference rooms and an open-plan work space,
where staffers dressed like bankers are bent over computers and
working the phones. Rent for the London space costs the club
1 million pounds a year, and similar offices are set to open
later this year in  Hong Kong .  “Our approach has evolved beyond a traditional sports
club’s, to being far more like that of a conventional blue-chip
company,” Commercial Director Richard Arnold, 40, said in a
conference room named for  Alex Ferguson , United’s manager. “To
arrive at this position we have spoken to companies with
reputations as the world’s leading marketing organizations to
see how they approach promotion and sales.”  History  United hasn’t always been successful. George Best and  Bobby Charlton  helped lead the club to a European championship in
1968, but the team went another two decades without a league
title and even suffered relegation to the second division in
1974.  The improved on-field fortunes coincided with the creation
of the Premier League in 1992, which made English soccer more
global. Matches are broadcast live in 211 territories and income
from global television rights now exceeds 1.4 billion pounds.
That’s in addition to the 1.78 billion pounds the league earns
from its domestic television contract.  Premier League  United has been the biggest beneficiary of the Premier
League’s growth, winning the inaugural season title and 11 more
over the next 20 years.  “ Manchester United ’s timing was great,” said Dan Jones, a
partner with the accounting firm Deloitte, which has produced an
annual review of soccer finance for the past 20 years. “They
started to have huge success on the pitch at the time that all
the other developments around media and so on gave them a place
to take that.”  In 2005, Malcolm Glazer, the American owner of the  National
Football League ’s  Tampa Bay Buccaneers , completed a 790 million-
pound leveraged buyout of the soccer team. Glazer and his family
have spent 40 million pounds on the team’s marketing strategy,
including creating a sales force. Before the takeover, two
people worked on selling the Manchester United brand.  Strategy  “The early months of what we did was spent in very high-
depth strategy discussions [with] multiple, multiple
iterations,” Arnold said.  “Even now, two days a month is
spent iterating all those strategies.”  By investing in research like the TNS Sport study, United
has been able to get a better understanding of the brand’s value
and reach, Arnold said. The result is a strategy that sells
access to its stadium infrastructure to major sponsors, while
offering limited territorial association rights to telecom and
credit card companies, allowing them to sell United-branded
products and content. Many of the agreements also include
revenue sharing between United and its partners.  In the past year commercial sales have increased 27
percent, to more than 100 million pounds, while the value of the
team’s corporate partnerships has risen tenfold since 2008.  The club has done it by creating new forms of advertising
inventory, beyond the industry standard. The team’s global
sponsors, including Turkish Airlines and Thai beer brand Singha,
get physical advertising space at Old Trafford and digital ads
during broadcasts of United’s home games.  Regional Partners  Since 2008 the club has also signed agreements with
regional partners, which are given exclusive rights to promote
their companies alongside United within specific geographic
areas, though they have little or no visibility in Manchester or
on the team’s  website .  Arnold said one reason United is able to secure such deals
is the time it spends learning about potential partners. “We
found there was a CEO of one of the companies we dealt with who
didn’t like tea or coffee, he liked  Diet Coke ,” Arnold said.
“When the meeting starts he gets a Diet Coke, not tea or
coffee. Everything we do has to express the premium offering
that Manchester United is, and you have to be able to do that
transcending industry, culture, country.”  The club’s recent agreement with shipping company DHL
reflects its commercial power. Arnold’s team sent branded iPads
loaded with company-specific presentations to DHL, in an effort
to persuade the company to sponsor the jerseys United players
wear--during practice.  In August, DHL signed a four-year contract for 40 million
pounds, more than what all but four other Premier League teams
get from their biggest sponsors.  Sliced Rights  It’s also an example of how the team is able to slice its
rights. In 2009,  Standard Chartered , the financial services
company, competed with Aon in the race to sponsor United’s game-
day jerseys. When Standard Chartered lost out, it signed on with
Liverpool, but insisted on being the exclusive corporate name on
all Liverpool apparel.  “The training kit thing is a very interesting angle
because it’s essentially saying the media coverage that
Manchester United get when they’re training equates to smaller
teams’ coverage when they’re actually playing,” said Andy
Korman, a partner at the U.K. law firm Couchmans, which
specializes in sports sponsorship. “So more people are
interested in seeing Manchester United down on the training
ground than they are in seeing most other teams live.”  Competitors  United’s sales operation dwarfs that of any of its rivals.
Chelsea, United’s chief Premier League competitor in recent
seasons, has “a handful” of sponsorship sales staffers, one
club executive told Bloomberg Businessweek. Liverpool, the team
that comes closest to United in worldwide appeal, hired its
first London-based employee earlier this year and didn’t have a
commercial director until 2007.  “Any team should look at them and learn,” said Ivan Gazidis, chief executive officer of Arsenal, whose commercial
revenue is about one-third the size of United’s. “But not every
club is in the position Manchester United is in. So the
solutions for any individual club could be different.”  For all their success at bringing in additional revenue,
the Glazers have faced resentment from United fans who say the
family is using the team’s income to cover the costs of buying
it, rather than investing in talent. United, which had been
listed on the London Stock Exchange since 1991, was debt-free
before Glazer took it private, and now has net debt of more than
300 million pounds.  Share Sale?  The Glazers have hired Credit Suisse to help float as much
as 30 percent of the club for $1 billion. Analysts say the
valuation is unrealistic because it would mean the club is worth
more than $3 billion, far higher than a Forbes rating of $1.8
billion. Some of the proceeds from the listing would likely be
used to pay off a 500 million-pound bond the team issued in Jan.
2010.  Financial details released in that bond prospectus revealed
how much the Glazers’ ownership had cost, fueling a protest
campaign. Andrew Green, a financial adviser to the Manchester
United Supporters Trust, a group opposed to the Glazers, said
the team’s commercial revenue is “a drop in the bucket compared
to the 495 million pounds of interest, banking, and other
costs” during the family’s ownership.  At the height of the backlash last year, fans brandished
gold and green scarves, representing the club’s founding colors,
and held up signs at home games with messages such as “Love
United, Hate Glazer.” The protest colors have been less visible
this season after United spent 50 million pounds beefing up its
already potent roster.  Customer Data  Arnold said the club has explored ways to monetize a
customer database with detailed information about 11 million
fans. It’s expanding its relationships with credit-card
companies. Indonesia-based Bank Danamon,  Korea ’s Shinhan Bank,
and Malaysia’s Public Bank already have credit cards bearing the
United logo.  The team is also renegotiating its contract with Nike,
which currently gives the apparel maker control over the
production of all United merchandise, whether its logo appears
on it or not.  “Manchester United have grown ... and that will reflect
the price,” said sponsorship expert Korman, whose firm’s
clients include Nike. “The greater the prestige of the brand,
the greater their marketing team is able to go to the
manufacturers and say, ‘Look, this is what we believe the deal
to be worth.’”  ----With reporting assistance from  Tony Jordan  in Bangkok,
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai and Sanat Vallikappen in  Singapore .
Editor: Romesh Ratnesar, Christopher Elser
