-- 
Manchester United Manager Ferguson Invests in ‘Obsession’ With Racehorses

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-10-20T09:50:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/manchester-united-manager-ferguson-invests-in-obsession-with-racehorses.html
Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson ’s obsessed with finding fast runners with a great sense
of balance. More and more, that means horses, rather than soccer
players.  For more than a decade, the Scotsman has been investing in
racehorses, and is among a number of people who’ve put funds
into  Highclere Thoroughbred Racing . The Newbury, England-based
company puts together ownership groups to buy into horses, and
counts the 12-time Premier League champion manager as an
investor, alongside actress Elizabeth Hurley and former  England 
rugby captain Lawrence Dallaglio.  Ferguson, who turns 70 on Dec. 31, was among 800 people
who this week attended Highclere’s three-day annual parade of
yearlings -- young, untrained thoroughbred racehorses. He said
he got interested in the sport after attending the Cheltenham
races with his wife.  “I was probably getting obsessed with my own job, spending
too much time, and getting home at night, being on the phone and
all that kind of thing,” he said yesterday in an interview.
“Then we decided to go away to Cheltenham for our anniversary,
my wife and I, and we decided to buy a horse then. So that’s how
it started. And then it becomes an obsession with the horses.”  It costs about 20,000 pounds ($32,000) a year on average to
train a racehorse. Highclere offers shares ranging from 11,950
pounds to 46,950 pounds a year, which includes all the costs,
including training fees, vet and feed bills. Any prize money is
shared by the syndicate owners, while further profits may be
made from stud fees and from sales.  ‘Not an Expert’  “I’m not an expert,” Ferguson said at the stables of 
Highclere Stud as he posed with a bay colt by Derby winner 
Galileo. The Scot said he has bought stakes in three Highclere 
syndicates this year, including the one for a colt from 
Galileo. It was the most expensive syndicate, with 12 shares 
at 46,950 pounds each.  ‘It’s a beautifully balanced horse,” said Ferguson, who
became involved with horse racing 14 years ago. ‘Nothing is as
important for any athlete or sportsman as balance.”  Harry Herbert, managing director of Highclere, said the
company has sold almost all of the shares in eight syndicates 
made up of 16 horses.  “I was very concerned about our sales because of the
economic woes and especially the problems in the eurozone this
year,” said Herbert, whose Victorian gothic family home is
Highclere Castle, where the Emmy Award-winning television series
 Downton Abbey  is filmed. “It all comes down to people really
loving racing. And the reality is that these folks have the
money.”  Winnings  Highclere this year won 400,000 pounds in prize money from
21 winners. It had more success last year, when it produced a
company record 41 winners, with prize money for its part-owners
of more than 1.3 million pounds.  One of last year’s winners was Harbinger, who was rated the
world’s best racehorse after he won the King George VI and Queen Elizabeth Stakes at Ascot. The horse was sold to a Japanese
owner.  “We’ve had a good year, but you don’t get a Harbinger
every year,” Herbert said.  Herbert and his brother-in-law John Warren, who is also
bloodstock adviser to  Queen Elizabeth II , this year spent 1.6
million pounds buying yearlings at sales in France, Ireland and
Britain.  Whether the part-owners will be making their investment
back remains to be seen.  “The extraordinary thing about the industry and about the
horses we’ve been looking at today is that nobody knows,” said
Warren, who has been scouting 100 horses a day in the past six
weeks to fill the syndicates. “There is no certainty, and
that’s what the intrigue is all about.”  Prices  There was also strong demand for young, untrained
racehorses two weeks ago at  Europe ’s biggest auction in
Newmarket, England.  A slow-down in breeding and increased demand from
international buyers including Dubai ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum boosted prices for top young race horses at
Tattersalls by almost one-third. A yearling by Galileo was sold
for $2.8 million, the top price for a filly paid this year in
 North America  and Europe and the highest at Tattersalls since
2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Highclere Stud, England, through the London
newsroom on   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  