-- 
Anglo American Iron-Ore Output Advances 3%, Copper Falls 9%

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-10-20T15:59:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/anglo-american-s-third-quarter-iron-ore-output-advances-3-as-copper-drops.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) , part-owner of
the largest platinum and diamond producers, said third-quarter
iron-ore output rose 3 percent while the company joined rivals
who suffered declines in copper production.  Iron ore output climbed to 12.2 million metric tons as
volumes increased in  South Africa , where the company’s Kumba
Iron Ore unit brought an expansion project online in August,
London-based Anglo said. While copper output dropped 9 percent
to 139,900 tons during the quarter, 2011 output will be
“marginally higher” than in 2010, it said.  Anglo said in February it may spend $85 billion to boost
output of copper, nickel and coal at 100 projects over the
decade, forecasting that Asian demand for the raw materials will
continue to push up prices. The company may lose some of its
copper production as Codelco, the largest producer of the metal,
said it plans to exercise an option next year to take a stake in
Anglo’s Los Bronces and other Chilean operations.  The stock closed 4 percent lower at 2,180.5 pence in
 London , its lowest in more than two weeks. Anglo has slumped 35
percent this year, compared with a 28 percent drop for BHP
Billiton Ltd. and a 41 percent decline for Xstrata Plc.  Anglo’s “production repeats the themes set by BHP and
Xstrata,” Liberum Capital Ltd. said in a note to investors.
Australian coal output was strong as operations recover from
flooding, copper production declined, and Anglo “exacerbates
this with a weak quarter in platinum.”  Platinum Output  While Anglo American Platinum’s refined platinum output
fell 7 percent in the quarter from a year earlier, equivalent
refined platinum, which includes other metals, rose 3 percent to
667,000 ounces. The producer revised its target for full-year
cash operating costs to 12,900 rand ($1,596) per equivalent
platinum ounce from the 12,500-rand midpoint of its previous
guidance, citing higher “consumables, labor and electricity
costs.”  Full-year guidance of 2.6 million ounces of refined
platinum production “looks achievable,” SBG Securities Ltd.
analyst Justin Froneman said in a note.  Anglo’s third-quarter performance is “a mixed bag, but
broadly not bad, apart from copper,”  Charles Cooper , an analyst
at Oriel Securities said by phone from London.  “Copper has been a nightmare for most of the majors,”
Cooper said. Difficulties including “strikes going on in Peru
and  Indonesia  for Freeport operations, falling grades, declining
production at Escondida,” present “a really interesting supply
dynamic for the industry.”  BHP Billiton Ltd. said yesterday its third-quarter copper
output fell 24 percent, citing lower grades and strikes at
Escondida mine in  Chile  and smelter and refinery outages at
Olympic Dam in  Australia . Rio Tinto Group, also a shareholder in
Escondida, reported a 32 percent drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  