-- 
Antofagasta, Barrick File Notice in Pakistan to Gain Time

-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 
2011-10-20T17:25:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/antofagasta-barrick-pakistan-venture-files-notice-of-dispute.html
A venture between  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO) 
and  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  to build a $3.3 billion Pakistan copper
mine filed a “notice of dispute” to gain time to resolve
issues with the local government about its mining lease.  The notice, filed yesterday, gives Tethyan Copper Co. 120
days to to engage the government of Baluchistan province in
talks over the lease application, Tethyan Chief Executive
Officer Tim Livesey said today by phone from Islamabad.  The government gave Tethyan 30 days until yesterday to
clarify 10 issues about the application and refused the
company’s request to extend the deadline by 60 days and
negotiate, Livesey said. A call to the Quetta office of the
Baluchistan government after business hours wasn’t answered.  “We’re hopeful and sure they will join us in discussion,”
Livesey said. “However at the end of the 120 days if we haven’t
been able to resolve the dispute, the next step will be to
trigger international arbitration in London.”  Tethyan’s application to mine copper and gold in Reko Diq,
a rocky desert location in far southwest  Pakistan , has been
stalled because of the dispute. The company says it has spent
more than $500 million on the project and  located enough ore  to
produce 200,000 metric tons of copper and 250,000 ounces of gold
per year for 56 years.  The 10 issues, which are outlined in a letter, include why
Tethyan hadn’t submitted plans to build a smelter in the area
and whether it’s a registered company in the country, Livesey
said. While Tethyan has proposed to export copper ore
concentrate, Baluchistan wants a copper smelter built locally to
refine the metal, Livesey said.  ‘Communication Error’  “It seemed that they are trying to find whatever reason
they can not to grant the mining license,” he said. “We hope
it’s a communication error within the government; we hope it’s
only a misunderstanding so we can solve during discussions.”  The government, which last year refused to become a 25
percent equity partner in the project, asked why Tethyan applied
for the license on its own and not together with the government,
Livesey said.  The letter also criticized Tethyan for not making a
“proper feasibility or exploration of the deposit” and failing
to achieve agreed targets, Livesey said. “We disagree,” he
said. “It’s a very good, high-quality, international study.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in  London  at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  