-- 
Argentina’s Credit Rating ‘Heavily Constrained,’ Fitch Says

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-10-20T14:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/argentina-s-credit-rating-heavily-constrained-fitch-says.html
Argentina’s sovereign rating is
“heavily constrained by inconsistent” policies that have
accelerated inflation and economic volatility,  Fitch Ratings 
said three days before presidential elections.  Growth in  South America ’s second-biggest economy will be
“weighed down” by a slower global expansion, increasing  risk
aversion  and a weakening Brazilian real, Fitch said in a report
today. The ratings company upgraded Argentina’s long-term
foreign currency rating to B, with a stable outlook, in July
last year, citing the nation’s second debt restructuring since a
2001 default on $95 billion of bonds.  “Sovereigns in the ‘B’ category tend to be more vulnerable
to challenging external environments given their weak policy
frameworks,” Fitch said. “These could lead to unorthodox
policy choices that would exacerbate their economic situation.”  Under President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner,  Argentina 
nationalized the $24 billion pension fund industry and tapped
central bank reserves to pay debt and control a weakening of the
peso. The government has remained blocked from international
credit markets since its default and has about $9 billion
outstanding to the Paris Club group of creditor nations. Annual
inflation economists estimate at 24 percent is “one of the
biggest” issues facing Argentina, Fitch said.  “The deceleration in global growth, the fall in commodity
prices, higher risk aversion and the real depreciation will pose
challenges” for Fernandez’s government after the election,
Fitch said. “It’s not clear if the next administration will
address some of the inconsistencies in the policy mix that will
allow a soft-landing for the economy.”  A credit rating of B from Fitch puts Argentina in the same
category as Ukraine and Cameroon.  Argentina’s economy will expand 4.5 percent in 2012, Fitch
said, less than the average 5.6 percent annual rate since
Fernandez, 58, took office in 2007. Polls show Fernandez is
likely to win a second four-year term in the Oct. 23 vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  