-- 
Arpe Vies for Crisis-Hit Milan Bank in Latest Turnaround Bet

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-10-20T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/arpe-vies-for-crisis-hit-milan-bank-in-latest-turnaround-bet.html
Matteo Arpe, once the youngest chief
executive officer of a major European bank, is vying to run
 Italy ’s oldest cooperative lender after bad loans almost wiped
out its profit in the second quarter.  For Arpe to be successful, he needs to persuade thousands
of investors voting on a new  Banca Popolare di Milano Scarl (PMI) 
board tomorrow. It’s not just institutional shareholders such as
 Fidelity Investments  and  Vanguard Group  that the executive must
convince, because investors are limited to one vote each no
matter how much stock they own.  Arpe, who more than quadrupled the market value of Rome-
based Capitalia SpA in his four years as CEO, is pitted against
Andrea Bonomi, chairman of buyout firm Investindustrial SpA, who
favors the bank’s existing reorganization plan. At stake is
Popolare di Milano’s ability to replenish capital after taking
government aid and reporting a 98 percent decrease in second-
quarter earnings on higher loan losses. Italy’s sixth-largest
lender by assets fell to a record low last month and is valued
at 709 million euros ($973 million), less than it’s seeking to
raise from investors.  “I’m not underestimating the challenge, also given the
market conditions in the European banking industry,” Arpe, 46,
said in an interview yesterday. “On the other hand, Popolare di
Milano has a strong local network with a very strong retail
franchise.”  Dual Boards  Banca Popolare di Milano’s shareholders will vote tomorrow
on adopting a dual-committee structure, as well as naming the
supervisory board members. The supervisory body will then
appoint a five-member management board, which Arpe said he is
willing to join. The management board names the CEO.  The lender, which has about 56 billion euros of assets,
scaled back in September the amount it’s seeking to raise in a
rights offer after investors balked at backing the existing
management. Investors are shunning Italian banks on concern they
may have to take losses on holdings of the nation’s sovereign
bonds as the region’s debt crisis spreads. Popolare di Milano
has slumped 35 percent this year.  The  Bank of Italy , the country’s central bank, demanded the
bank review its governance to separate management from
shareholder control. Chairman Massimo Ponzellini was appointed
in April 2009.  Arpe, now chairman of Milan-based Banca Profilo SpA, which
is controlled by his investment fund Sator Group, said he wants
to boost management’s independence. “I’ve made myself available
to be a part of the management committee provided there is a
real and uncompromising change in the governance, drawing a
clear line under the old way of doing things in which external
associations compromised the bank’s independence,” he said.  Arpe Tsunami  Arpe said he’s willing to inject capital into the bank if
those conditions are met, and has no intention of cutting staff.  Daily newspaper la Repubblica has reported that a labor
group known as Amici controlled management and appointments
within the firm through a secret agreement. The company, in a
statement on Oct. 19, denied such conduct. Italian newspapers
also have reported that some backers of lists for the
supervisory board may be acting in concert, violating the law.  It was Amici who called on Bonomi to step in as an investor
and lead the bank, the executive told reporters in Milan on Oct.
17. Bonomi says he can turn around Popolare di Milano like he
did motorcycle maker Ducati Motor Holding SpA, which is owned by
Investindustrial.  “Change needs to come internally,” said Bonomi. “First
it needs capital to rebuild confidence and then it needs an
independent management,” he said. “It doesn’t need the Arpe
tsunami. There’s no interest in Popolare di Milano changing its
course.”  Competing Lists  Bonomi, who already owns at least 2.7 percent of the bank,
and Arpe are each willing to invest up to 200 million euros in
the company to demonstrate their commitment. Bonomi would be
named to the management board by supervisory board candidates
who are competing with the list that favor Arpe.  The two would-be managers have different strategies,
according to Alessandro Frigerio, a  fund manager  at RMJ Sgr in
Milan.  “Bonomi would relaunch the bank without changing the
course too much, while Arpe would pull out all the stops,” said
Frigerio, who doesn’t own shares in Popolare Milano.  “This is a typical Italian situation that we’ve seen in
the past: the same people responsible for the current crisis are
presenting themselves as the saviors,” Arpe said. “The bank
above all needs a new managerial approach to restore
credibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  