-- 
Olympus Probe Demanded by Shareholders Nippon Life, Harris After CEO Exit

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-10-20T08:30:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/harris-asks-olympus-exchange-to-explain-acquisitions-questioned-by-ex-ceo.html
Nippon Life Insurance Co., the
largest shareholder of  Olympus Corp. (7733) , and Harris Associates LP,
asked the company to respond to investors’ concerns about
takeover payments revealed by its fired chief executive officer,
which prompted a 47 percent plunge in the stock price.  Nippon Life requested Olympus to take “prompt” action to
address investor distrust regarding the company’s corporate
governance, Akira Tsuzuki, a Nippon Life spokesman said today.  Olympus, the world’s biggest maker of endoscopes, has lost
more than $4 billion of its market value in the five trading
days since Michael C. Woodford was fired. Following his
dismissal, he made public a PricewaterhouseCoopers report that
he commissioned that said the company may face regulatory and
legal scrutiny because of payments made to advisers in the
acquisition of Gyrus Group Plc in 2008.  Harris Associates, the seventh-largest shareholder of
Olympus, sent a letter today to the company’s board and to the
Tokyo Stock Exchange seeking an independent probe on 2008
acquisitions, David Herro, chief investment officer of
international equities at U.S.-based Harris, said in an e-mail.  The Tokyo bourse hasn’t received a letter from Harris,
Naoya Takahashi, a spokesman for TSE, said by phone today.
“Generally, we urge companies to disclose information on a
matter that affects investors’ judgments. We cannot comment
whether we took such action on Olympus,” he said.  Gyrus Acquisition  Olympus, which started business 92 years ago, said
yesterday it paid $687 million in fees to advisers for its $2
billion purchase of Gyrus, almost double the 30 billion yen
($391 million) Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa disclosed a day
earlier.  Cayman Islands-incorporated AXAM Investments Ltd., one of
the two advisers that received the fees that were more than a
third of the $2 billion purchase price, was removed from the
local registry in June 2010 for non-payment of license fees,
according to the PricewaterhouseCoopers report. The PwC report
said it couldn’t establish who were the owners of AXAM.  Merger and acquisition advisory fees depend on individual
deals and usually range from 1 percent to 5 percent, two people
with knowledge of such deals said, declining to be named because
they weren’t authorized to talk to the media.  “The eventual cost of the Transaction to Olympus is
extremely significant and is as a result of a number of actions
taken by management which are questionable and which give cause
for concern,” the PwC report says. “We were unable to confirm
that there has been improper conduct, however, given the sums of
money involved and some of the unusual decisions that have been
made it cannot be ruled out.”  Rating Suspension  Olympus, which said the report included “assumptions” and
“speculation” and is misleading, dismissed its first non-
Japanese president last week saying he bypassed unit managers to
give orders directly to employees and “wouldn’t listen.’  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  suspended its rating on Olympus
yesterday saying the ‘‘adequacy” of the company’s accounting
practices regarding past acquisitions has become unclear.  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are also among brokerages
that suspended their ratings on the company as of today.  “There are serious issues surrounding the massive
destruction of stakeholder value and there needs to be
accountability,” said Herro. “I stress stakeholders because
the damage is not just to the shareholders, but the employees,
suppliers and customers whom also deserve answers.”  The shares fell 4.9 percent today to close at 1,321 yen in
Tokyo trading, extending their loss since Woodford’s dismissal
to 47 percent.  Lost Value  Nippon Life,  Japan ’s largest insurance company, lost about
25 billion yen in the value of its holdings, based on
Bloomberg’s calculation of the 22 million shares held by the
company. The insurer owned 8.3 percent of Olympus, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Spokespeople at Nikko Asset Management Co. and Nomura Asset
Management Co., which together hold a 2.6 percent of Olympus,
declined to comment whether they have contacted Olympus or
regulators.  Japan’s Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission,
the nation’s watchdog, declined to comment on individual
companies, when contacted today, according to an official.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  