-- 
Asia Stocks Headed for Lowest in a Week on Europe Debt Wrangling

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-10-20T10:43:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/asian-stocks-fall-amid-europe-divisions-on-bailout-commodity-shares-drop.html
Asian stocks slid, with the
benchmark regional index headed to its lowest close in more than
a week, amid uncertainty about European bailout-fund talks and
as U.S. companies grew more pessimistic about the outlook for
the world’s largest economy.  Sharp Corp., a Japanese maker of liquid-crystal displays
that gets about half of its revenue overseas, fell 2.1 percent
in  Tokyo .  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a clothier that gets most of its
sales in  Europe , sank 7.8 percent in Hong Kong. BHP Billion
Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company, dropped 2.5 percent as
commodity prices dropped.  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) , Australia’s
largest gold mining company, sank 6.4 percent after saying
quarterly gold output sank from a year earlier.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index sank 1.7 percent to 115.37 as
of 7:40 p.m. in Tokyo, headed for its lowest close since Oct.
10. More than four stocks fell for each for each that gained on
the gauge.  “U.S. economic conditions don’t appear to be getting any
better, and in fact there’s some risk it might get worse, so
that doesn’t give investors much comfort at all,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages more than $300 million at White Funds
Management in Sydney. “There appears to be growing concern
about whether or not European leaders meeting on the weekend
will be able to come up with a credible plan.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 15 percent this year
through yesterday as Europe’s smoldering debt crisis, slowing
U.S. economic growth and tighter monetary policy in  China 
crimped the earnings outlook for the region’s companies.
Europe’s leaders have pledged to use a meeting this weekend to
develop a plan to tackle the crisis.  China Stocks Slide  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 slid 1.6 percent after a report
from National Australia Bank Ltd. showed the nation’s third-
quarter business confidence fell to a three-year low.  Japan ’s
 Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average retreated 1 percent. South Korea’s
Kospi Index fell 2.7 percent. Singapore’s Straits Times Index
lost 1 percent.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  lost 1.8 percent as Chinese
companies fell amid slower economic growth and signs that
tighter monetary policy will persist while inflation remains
high.  The Bangkok SET Index sank 3.1 percent amid concern
Thailand’s worst floods in 50 years will crimp economic growth.  Builder Supalai Pcl sank 4.2 percent to 11.30 baht, while
L.P.N. Development Public Co. retreated 1 percent to 9.80 baht
as KGI Securities (Thailand) Pcl cut Thai residential property
to “underweight” from “overweight” to reflect the impact of
the global economic slowdown and prolonged flooding.  U.S. Futures  The Asia-Pacific measure’s slide compares with a 3.8
percent drop by the U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and a 14
percent loss by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the Asian
benchmark are valued at 11.9 times estimated earnings on average
at the last close, compared with 12.1 times for the  S&P 500  and
10.2 times for the Stoxx 600.  Futures on the S&P 500 expiring in December gained 0.4
percent today. The index lost 1.3 percent yesterday.  Sharp slid 2.1 percent to 667 yen in Tokyo, while Nintendo
Co., the maker of Wii game consoles which gets about 41 percent
of its revenue from Europe, sank 1.8 percent to 11,800 yen in
 Osaka . Esprit slumped 7.8 percent to HK$10.48 in  Hong Kong .  Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, who chairs
the group of euro-area finance ministers, indicated an Oct. 19
meeting of European leaders in Frankfurt failed to resolve
differences ahead of a summit scheduled for this weekend. French
Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said the region’s bailout fund
could be improved with help from the  European Central Bank , a
position opposed by the ECB and Germany.  ‘Pretty Nervous’  “We remain pretty nervous about Europe’s crisis because we
have yet to see a concrete safety-net being established for the
financial system,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about
$600 million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co.
“Pessimism about Europe sets the tone for the market’s
sentiment.”  The Fed’s Beige Book survey showed companies reported more
doubt about the recovery even as the economy maintained its
expansion last month.  U.S. economic “conditions aren’t fabulous,” said White
Funds Management’s Gluskie. “They’re not going backward, but
they’re not dramatically improving. If it’s improving, it’s very
slight, and at this stage that’s not enough to give investors
huge confidence.”  Commodity Suppliers  BHP slid 2.5 percent to A$35.48 in Sydney. Jiangxi Copper
Co., China’s No. 1 producer of the metal, fell 3.7 percent to
HK$15 in Hong Kong. Korea Zinc Co., a producer of precious
metals, plunged 10 percent to 279,000 won in Seoul.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
fell 1.3 percent yesterday. Crude oil for November delivery
dropped $2.23 to settle at $86.11 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . The London Metals Exchange Index, a measure
of six metals, retreated 2.3 percent yesterday.  Newcrest Mining sank 6.4 percent to A$33.45 in Sydney. The
Melbourne-based company said its gold output for the three
months ended September fell to 587,296 ounces from 674,219
ounces a year earlier.  Nanya Technology Corp. (2408) , a Taiwanese memory-chip maker,
tumbled 6.8 percent to NT$3.58 after its third-quarter net loss
widened to NT$12 billion ($398 million) from NT$2.27 billion a
year earlier.  China Shares Fall  Chinese shares slumped after  Liu Mingkang , chairman of the
China Banking Regulatory Commission, said risks stemming from
private lending must be “strictly controlled,” and such loans
will be curbed.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (1288) , the nation’s third-biggest
lender by market value, sank 1.4 percent to HK$2.84 in Hong
Kong, while China Citic Bank Corp. slumped 2.1 percent to 4.25
yuan in Shanghai.  Consumer prices in China increased 6.1 percent in September
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said last
week. The government’s full-year inflation target is 4 percent.  The central bank is unlikely to loosen its monetary
policies as inflation remains “high,” said Liu Jianwei, a fund
manager at Bosera Asset Management Co.  Among stocks that rose,  Huabao International Holdings Ltd. (336) ,
a supplier of flavors for tobacco and food, climbed 8.2 percent
to HK$4.73 in Hong Kong. The company said controlling
stockholder Chu Lam Yiu entered into a derivative transaction
related to a long position equivalent to 94.7 million company
shares.  In Japan, Tokyo Electric Power Co., the utility at the
center of the worst nuclear disaster in 25 years, surged 36
percent to 292 yen. The shares have fallen 86 percent since the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami caused meltdowns at the
utility’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 