-- 
Asian Currencies Weaken as Europe Debt Rift Dims Global Growth Outlook

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 
2011-10-20T08:40:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/asian-currencies-slump-on-europe-debt-rift.html
Asian currencies weakened as a lack
of progress in resolving  Europe ’s debt crisis added to concern
the global economic growth is slowing, prompting investors to
cut holdings of emerging-market assets.  The won slipped from a one-month high after a rift emerged
between France and Germany over how to enhance a bailout fund.
European Union leaders will hold a summit on Oct. 23 to discuss
solutions to the crisis. Thailand’s baht fell the most since
January after the central bank said the economy may contract
this quarter amid the nation’s worst floods in 50 years.  “Expectations for positive news on Europe’s debt crisis
have subsided a little,” said Kim Seong Soo, a Seoul-based
currency dealer with Kyongnam Bank. “Investors will be adopting
a cautious stance ahead of the European summit this week.”  The baht weakened almost 1 percent to 30.99 per dollar as
of 3:05 p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, headed for its biggest decline since Jan. 10. The won
slid 1.1 percent to 1,145.17,  Malaysia ’s ringgit lost 0.7
percent to 3.1283 and Taiwan’s dollar declined 0.6 percent to
NT$30.269.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index dropped 0.2
percent, the most in a week. The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of
stocks dropped 1.5 percent after the  Federal Reserve  said U.S.
companies were becoming more pessimistic about the economic
outlook.  French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said yesterday that
Europe’s temporary bailout fund would be best enhanced with help
from the  European Central Bank , a position the ECB and Germany
continue to oppose. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
yesterday the summit on Oct. 23 will not be “the end point” of
the crisis.  Thai Floods  The Federal Reserve said the world’s biggest economy
maintained its expansion last month, while companies reported
more doubt about the strength of the recovery, according to the
Beige Book survey released in  Washington  yesterday. Contacts
generally noted weaker or less certain outlooks for business
conditions, the survey showed.  The baht touched the weakest level since Oct. 12. Gross
domestic product may shrink this quarter and the Bank of
Thailand will probably reduce its 2011 growth estimate to below
3 percent from 4.1 percent currently, Governor Prasarn
Trairatvorakul said today. The central bank left its one-day
bond repurchase rate at 3.50 percent yesterday.  “The floods will hurt tourism, production, distribution
and supply chains and reduce exports, hurting the baht,” said
Minori Uchida, a senior analyst in Tokyo at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.  The Taiwan dollar dropped the most in almost four weeks. A
government report today showed overseas shipments grew 2.72
percent last month, the slowest pace in two years. Export orders
were expected to increase 3.46 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey.  ‘Weaker Economic Outlook’  “Traders don’t dare take overnight positions as they’re
still skeptical whether Europe will find a solution to solve the
crisis,” said  Frances Cheung , a Hong Kong-based strategist at
Credit Agricole CIB.  The Philippine peso declined 0.4 percent to 43.320 per
dollar. The currency maintained its losses as Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas left its benchmark overnight rate at 4.50 percent
today, unchanged for a fourth straight meeting.  Elsewhere,  China ’s yuan weakened 0.12 percent to 6.3850 per
dollar, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
The currency dropped 0.1 percent to 6.4290 in  Hong Kong .
Indonesia’s rupiah slipped 0.7 percent to 8,862.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 