-- 
Stocks, Euro Advance as EU Crafts $1.3 Trillion Rescue Fund

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-10-20T20:25:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/asia-stocks-fall-on-europe-divisions.html
U.S. stocks and the euro rose,
recovering from earlier losses, as European governments
discussed deploying $1.3 trillion in funds to tame the sovereign
debt crisis. Treasuries fell and commodities pared losses.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.5 percent to
1,215.39 at the 4 p.m. close in  New York  after tumbling as much
as 1 percent. The euro gained 0.2 percent to $1.3786, rebounding
from a 0.8 percent slide, and 10-year Treasury yields rose two
basis points to 2.19 percent after decreasing as much as five
basis points. The S&P GSCI Index of commodities lost 0.3
percent, recovering from a 1.9 percent decline.  Riskier assets rebounded as two people familiar with the
matter said Europe may combine the temporary and permanent
rescue funds to pool as much as 940 billion euros to fight the
crisis. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  said in a joint statement they want euro-region
leaders to agree on an “ambitious” plan. The European Union
said a planned Oct. 23 summit will be followed by another
session on Oct. 26.  “The main thing is -- can we get to the point where we
actually have a constructive resolution in  Europe ?” Brian Barish, Denver-based president of Cambiar Investors LLC, which
oversees about $8 billion, said in a telephone interview. “The
market is hypersensitive as to whether or not a plan will emerge
that will stabilize Europe.”  Earlier losses in stocks, commodities and the euro came
amid growing concern leaders were gridlocked on plans to
leverage the region’s bailout fund as Merkel canceled a speech
to the German parliament tomorrow. Banks in the Stoxx Europe 600
Index slid 4 percent as a group and yields on 10-year Italian
bonds topped 6 percent for the first time in more than two
months, underscoring the urgency of the need for a solution.  Financial Shares Reverse  Financial shares in the  S&P 500  rose 1.8 percent as a
group, reversing a 1.1 percent slide and posting the biggest
gain among 10 industries. Fifth Third Bancorp and KeyCorp rose
9.1 percent and 6.9 percent, respectively, to lead gains after
the Ohio-based regional lenders posted better-than-estimated
earnings. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Alcoa Inc. climbed at least
1.8 percent for the top gains in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average , which increased 0.3 percent to 11,541.78.  EBay Inc. slid 3.1 percent after the largest online
marketplace forecast sales and profit that missed some analyst
estimates. Boston Scientific Corp. slipped 4.4 percent after
third-quarter profit declined 25 percent as demand fell for its
defibrillators and pacemakers used to regulate the heart.  Earnings-per share have topped analysts’ estimates at about
75 percent of the 89 companies in the S&P 500 that released
results since Oct. 11. Net Income has grown 15 percent for the
group and sales have increased 9.5 percent, Bloomberg data show.  Philadelphia Manufacturing  U.S. equities climbed early in the session as the Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index climbed
more than forecast to 8.7, unexpectedly signaling expansion in
the area covering eastern  Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and
 Delaware .  About five shares declined for every one that gained in the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, which slipped 1.5 percent. European
markets closed before  France  and  Germany  issued their joint
statement. Banks led losses, with  Italy ’s UniCredit SpA plunging
12 percent and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA slumping 9.8 percent. Banks
that need aid from Europe’s rescue fund must be restructured as
a condition for receiving capital, according to draft guidelines
obtained by Bloomberg News.  The yield on French 10-year debt rose to 115 basis points
above benchmark German bunds, the highest since the creation of
the euro currency.  European Yields  The yield on the Spanish 10-year bond rose 13 basis points
to a two-month high of 5.53 percent as demand dropped at the
nation’s first debt sale since Moody’s Investors Service cut the
country’s credit ranking.  Greek 10-year bond yields slipped 41 basis points to 23.89
percent, compared with a record 26.70 percent on Sept. 15.  EU officials weighing deeper losses for Greek bondholders
in a revamped bailout are concerned that any investor
involvement risks further roiling markets, say people familiar
with the EU’s deliberations. The people said the EU is
considering five scenarios for the private sector’s role. They
range from sticking with July’s voluntary debt swap plan to
forcing investors to exchange Greek bonds for new ones at 50
percent of their value.  Greek Austerity  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won the backing of a
majority of lawmakers in a second test of support for a new
austerity package. Greek Citizen Protection Minister Christos
Papoutsis appealed for calm after a man died during protests in
 Athens  today.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 2.7 percent, the
biggest decline on a closing basis in more than two weeks.  South
Korea ’s Kospi Index declined 2.7 percent as benchmark gauges for
Brazil and  Poland  lost at least 1.7 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index slumped 1.9 percent to a 31-
month low on concern  China  may persist with policies to rein in
lending. Risks stemming from private lending must be “strictly
controlled,” China’s banking regulator said.  Thailand ’s SET Index lost 3.1 percent as the central bank
said it will cut its economic growth forecast as the worst
floods in 50 years threaten to keep factories closed for months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  