-- 
AT&T Sales Miss Estimates on Slowing IPhone, Pay-TV Demand

-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 
2011-10-20T20:21:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/at-t-profit-matches-analysts-estimates-as-iphone-helps-lure-subscribers.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the second-largest U.S.
wireless carrier, reported third-quarter sales that missed
analysts’ estimates as customers waited for this month’s newest
iPhone and pay-TV subscriber gains slowed.  Sales fell 0.3 percent to $31.5 billion, AT&T said today in
a statement. Analysts predicted $31.6 billion, the average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Earnings, excluding some items,
rose to 61 cents a share, matching the average estimate.  AT&T added 319,000 wireless subscribers on monthly
contracts, down from the second quarter’s 331,000 and more than
the 294,000 average estimate of six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. IPhone activations slowed as consumers waited for the
latest version of the  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  device, which became available
at all three biggest carriers for the first time this month.  “The focus now is on the fourth quarter and how well AT&T
does with iPhone sales,” said  Todd Rethemeier , an analyst at
Hudson Square Research in New York, who recommends buying AT&T
shares. Investors need to hear “how well they are doing in
terms of market share.”  Net income declined to $3.62 billion, or 61 cents a share,
from $12.3 billion, or $2.07, a year earlier, when the Dallas-
based company booked a one-time $8.3 billion gain related to the
acquisition of Cingular Wireless.  AT&T fell 0.3 percent to $28.99 at the close in New York.
The stock is little changed this year.  Sluggish Economy  AT&T’s wireline business missed analysts’ subscriber-gain
estimates for Internet and pay-TV users. The unit is banking on
broadband and video services for sales growth as consumers
continue to abandon their home phones.  “We saw continued weakness on the consumer side,” said
 Michael Nelson , an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc., who
recommends buying AT&T stock.  AT&T added 3,000 broadband subscribers, fewer than the
91,000 analysts predicted on average. Still, the gain was a
turnaround from the 12,000 lost in the second quarter.  The company signed on 176,000 subscribers to its U-verse
video service, compared with an average estimate of 219,000. The
gain was the smallest since the second quarter of 2008,
according to Bloomberg data.  IPhone Lag  AT&T activated 2.7 million iPhones in the quarter ended
Sept. 30, down from the second quarter’s 3.6 million. As of Oct.
18, the company had activated more than 1 million of the new
iPhone 4S devices since it went on sale Oct. 14. The initial
iPhone 4S sales will be accounted for in the fourth quarter.  The carrier will sell 4.5 million iPhones this quarter,
according to an estimate by John Hodulik, an analyst at UBS AG.
The record number of early iPhone sales may boost AT&T’s
expenses for the fourth quarter. Phone companies pay Apple an
estimated $600 per iPhone and then sell the device at a discount
to lure subscribers into two-year contracts. The upfront costs
reduce profit initially.  In the third quarter, AT&T’s wireless operating margin
expanded to 29.6 percent from 23.1 percent a year earlier.
Almost half of the smartphones AT&T sold weren’t iPhones and
included devices running on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  “The margins in wireless looked pretty good, that’s
probably due to fewer iPhones, which are expensive to
subsidize,” Rethemeier said.  Shrinking Bills  The average monthly revenue per contract wireless customer
fell to $63.69 from $63.87 in the second quarter, the first
sequential decline in several years,  Christopher King , an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus, said in a research note. King
recommends buying AT&T. From a year earlier, the average monthly
postpaid bill rose 1.4 percent, the 11th straight gain.  The sequential decline suggests AT&T’s most lucrative
wireless customers, who spend the most each month, are seeking
to curb expenditures. At least three analysts on the company’s
conference call asked about the drop.  Brooks McCorcle, an AT&T spokeswoman, said that demand for
the new iPhone will help boost average revenue per user in the
fourth quarter.  AT&T is starting limited service this year on its newer
wireless technology called long-term evolution, or LTE, which
allows faster data speeds. The company trails Verizon, which
started offering LTE in some markets last year.  AT&T is also fighting the U.S. Justice Department’s Aug. 31
lawsuit to block its $39 billion acquisition of  T-Mobile USA ,
the No. 4 carrier.  AT&T has approached smaller rivals, including  MetroPCS
Communications Inc. (PCS) , about them buying spectrum and subscribers
as part of an effort to save the merger, two people with direct
knowledge of the situation said last month. Shedding assets may
help AT&T counter regulators’ concerns that the T-Mobile
transaction would increase market concentration.  AT&T said today it continues to work toward a “successful
completion” of the acquisition.  “It looks like the merger will go to trial and that could
lead to a long, drawn-out process,” Nelson said. “Every day
that goes by means the odds of a deal going through is
diminished.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  