-- 
Australian, New Zealand Dollars Set for Weekly Declines Before EU Summit

-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 
2011-10-20T23:42:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/australian-new-zealand-dollars-set-for-weekly-declines-before-eu-summit.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars are set for the biggest weekly declines against the yen
in a month on concern European leaders will struggle to resolve
the region’s debt crisis.  The so-called Aussie is poised to drop against its U.S.
counterpart this week after commodities prices fell, sapping
demand for riskier assets. Losses in the South Pacific
currencies were limited on prospects Asian stocks will snap
declines from yesterday.  “It is all about  Europe , nothing else matters,” said Kurt Magnus, executive director of currency sales in Sydney at
Nomura,  Japan ’s biggest brokerage. He said the Australian dollar
may fall back to parity with its U.S. counterpart this weekend.
“The market might be slightly short risk, short Aussie and
short euro going into the weekend. The market is ready to be
disappointed.”  The Australian dollar traded at 78.67 yen as of 9:46 a.m.
in Sydney from 78.58 yen yesterday in  New York . It’s set for a
1.5 percent weekly drop, the most since the week ended Sept. 23.
The so-called Aussie was little changed at $1.0232, poised for
1.1 percent decline this week.  New Zealand’s currency, traded at 60.99 yen from 60.93 yen.
It’s set to fall 1.9 percent this week, the most since the five-
day period ended Sept. 23. The so-called kiwi bought 79.34 U.S.
cents from 79.30.  The Thomson Reuters/ Jefferies CRB index of raw materials
fell 1 percent yesterday, extending the loss for the week to 3
percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.5 percent in
New York and its futures were little changed today.  Europe Deadlock  European Union leaders, who are gridlocked on how to solve
the sovereign debt crisis, will hold a second summit on Oct. 26,
in addition to a meeting this weekend, in an effort to bridge
differences between Germany and  France .  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  agreed to ask euro-region leaders to assess a
“comprehensive and ambitious” package of measures to address
the debt crisis this weekend in order to agree on the measures
by Oct. 26, the German government spokesman Steffen Seibert said
via e-mail.  European governments may deploy as much as 940 billion
euros ($1.3 trillion) to contain the debt crisis by combining
the temporary and planned permanent rescue funds, two people
familiar with the discussions said.  -- Editors: Jonathan Annells, Benjamin Purvis  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  