-- 
Australian Dollar Drops on Concern Summit Will Fail to End Europe Crisis

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-10-20T15:58:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/australian-dollar-erases-advance-on-concern-summit-will-fail-to-end-crisis.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars fell on concern  Europe ’s leaders won’t reach a
resolution to the region’s debt crisis at an Oct. 23 summit.  Demand for the Aussie was limited as Asian stocks declined
on concern that a Franco-German split about a European bailout
fund will hamper progress. Stocks and commodities fell, sapping
the appeal of higher-yielding assets.  “The chance for the European summit this weekend to be a
positive surprise for the markets is decreasing,” said  Junya Tanase , chief currency strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
 Tokyo . “The bias is for the markets to lean toward a risk-off
mood again after the meeting because of concern over the debt
crisis.”  The Australian dollar slid 0.5 percent to $1.0175 at 11:56
a.m. New York time. The Aussie dropped 0.4 percent to 78.25 yen.  New Zealand ’s currency, nicknamed the kiwi, weakened 0.5
percent to 78.78 U.S. cents, and fell 0.4 percent to 60.58 yen.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.8 percent and the
S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw materials sank 1.4 percent.  Euro-area leaders are scheduled to meet on Oct. 23, with
disagreement about the  European Central Bank ’s role threatening
to hinder progress on the banking and economic questions needed
to deliver the comprehensive debt crisis strategy. The German
government hasn’t excluded postponing the summit because of
stalling negotiations on boosting the firepower of the region’s
rescue fund, Die Welt said, citing unidentified people close to
the country’s governing coalition.  Australia ’s banks have limited holdings of sovereign debt
in countries most at risk in Europe, without being “entirely
immune” from the turmoil,  Reserve Bank  of Australia Assistant
Governor Malcolm Edey said.  “Australian banks have only limited direct exposures to
sovereign debt in the countries that are most at risk,” Edey
said in prepared remarks for a speech in Sydney today. “So
potential effects on Australian banks’ overall asset quality are
not an issue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  