-- 
AutoNation Says Japanese Car Supply Rising, May Hurt Margins

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-10-20T20:08:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/autonation-says-rising-supply-of-japanese-cars-may-hurt-margins.html
AutoNation Inc. (AN) , the largest U.S.
car retailer, said the restocking of dealer lots with new
vehicles from Japanese manufacturers will boost demand while
lowering profit margins through the end of the year.  AutoNation will take delivery of more than 30,000 vehicles
in the fourth quarter from Japan-based automakers such as  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co., said Michael Maroone,
AutoNation’s president and chief operating officer. Those
automakers shipped fewer than 20,000 new cars and trucks in the
third quarter, Maroone said today in a telephone interview.  Chief Executive Officer  Mike Jackson  boosted prices after
 Japan ’s tsunami in March led to car shortages and helped push
the seasonally adjusted annual rate of U.S. auto sales below 12
million in May and June.  Fort Lauderdale , Florida-based
AutoNation’s gross profit on each new vehicle sold increased
$460, or 23 percent, to $2,454 in the third quarter.  “We’ll definitely be giving up some margin, but we believe
that Q4 is going to be over a 13 million selling rate, so we’ll
be just fine,” Maroone said, following the release of third-
quarter earnings. “Prices are going to normalize as supply
improves. It will be improving all through the quarter, but we
won’t get back to normal levels until first quarter 2012.”  Net income rose to $70.7 million, or 48 cents a share, in
the third quarter, from $56.9 million, or 38 cents, a year
earlier, AutoNation said in a statement. Profit topped the 47-
cents estimate that was the average of 12 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales increased 7.1 percent to $3.51 billion.  Sales Outlook  U.S. light-vehicle sales may be in the mid-12 million range
this year for the industry, Jackson said in a telephone
interview, repeating a forecast from April. Industrywide
deliveries were 11.6 million in 2010, according to Autodata
Corp., a  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based researcher.  AutoNation bought back $247.7 million in company stock, or
7.2 million shares, from July 1 through Oct. 19, according to
today’s statement. The board authorized the repurchase of as
much as $250 million more.  AutoNation rose 2.3 percent to $37.95 at the close in  New
York . The stock has climbed 35 percent this year.  Monetary policy  may help the  U.S. economy  avert a double-
dip recession, said Jackson, who was named to the board of the
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta’s Miami branch in January.
Interest rates that Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has pledged to
keep near zero until mid-2013 are lowering AutoNation’s costs of
carrying inventory and are helping keep credit available and
cheap for new-car buyers, he said.  ‘Sustainable Recovery’  “There’s a sustainable recovery under way for the overall
economy,” Jackson said. “It’s slow, it’s fragile, but if you
look at the amount of stimulus from the  Federal Reserve , that
will most likely inoculate the economy from a double dip.”  More than half of the new vehicles AutoNation sold last
year were produced by Japanese carmakers. About two-thirds of
those deliveries were assembled in  North America , the company
said in April.  Japanese automakers will begin “ramping up” incentives
and marketing as supply improves, Maroone said.  “It’s going to be a very competitive market, but a
rational market,” he said. “I don’t think anyone’s going to
come out and run an irrational incentive. I don’t think the
Japanese will have sufficient inventories that they need to do
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  