-- 
Lawsky Juggles Roles as Financial Cop in N.Y.

-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-10-20T14:45:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/lawsky-walks-tightrope-as-the-new-financial-cop-on-the-block-in-new-york.html
Ben Lawsky, the first person to head
 New York ’s newly established Financial Services Department, said
he’ll be juggling conflicting roles of enforcer and promoter as
he oversees the state’s banks and insurance companies.  “Being a better consumer-protection agency and fraud
detector, while keeping New York the financial center of the
world, aren’t necessarily contradictory,” Lawsky, 41, said
during an interview in his office in lower Manhattan. “But
doing this well requires a delicate balance that’s hard to
achieve.”  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  initially proposed investing
Lawsky’s department with powers comparable to those of the state
attorney general. The idea got scaled back, though the
legislature did give Lawsky oversight of new financial products
that fall outside the jurisdiction of existing regulations. That
was designed to counter what Lawsky called  Wall Street ’s history
of devising products that circumvent regulation.  “This is designed for the future,” Lawsky said. “We will
have oversight of products intentionally designed to be neither
fish nor fowl, where they’re not a commodity, not a security and
not insurance -- products designed to fall into regulatory
gaps.”  Former Prosecutor  Lawsky, who will monitor about 4,400 financial companies
managing more than $6.2 trillion in assets, is “a prosecutor at
heart” who will take an aggressive approach, said  Neil Barofsky , the former special inspector general for the Troubled
Assets Relief Program and an ex-colleague.  A former assistant U.S. attorney, Lawsky also spent four
years as the top financial crimes prosecutor for then-New York
Attorney GeneralCuomo, and was in the thick of Cuomo’s effort
to force banks that received taxpayer bailouts to disclose
sensitive information about bonus payments.  Lawsky led the probe into $3.6 billion in bonuses Merrill
Lynch & Co. gave executives as  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  acquired
the company. As Cuomo’s special assistant, he was the prime
mover behind the ongoing lawsuit filed in early 2010 accusing
former Bank of America Chief Executive Officer Ken Lewis of
misleading shareholders and government officials about Merrill’s
financial condition.  Bank analyst  Richard Bove  at Rochdale Securities LLC
remains critical of that case, given that the Merrill
acquisition bolstered profit at  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America.  ‘Beneficial to BofA’  “In every way this merger was beneficial to BofA,” Bove
said. “To sue management as a result of it was outrageous. If
BofA had not acquired Merrill, thousands of people would have
lost their jobs.”  After Cuomo won election as New York’s governor last year,
Lawsky followed him to Albany as chief of staff. When Cuomo
created the new financial agency by merging the state
departments of banking and insurance, which had operated
independently since the 1850s, he appointed Lawsky to head it.  “There will be a new powerful cop on the beat, monitoring
things here in New York,” Lawsky told his staff at the
inauguration of the department on Oct. 3.  He pledged to hire a director of enforcement to oversee
criminal cases and expand the staff working on them. The agency,
with a budget of about $240 million, has about 1,500 employees.  Obtained Convictions  Still, Lawsky said he shouldn’t be pigeon-holed by his
prosecutorial background. As an assistant U.S. attorney, he
obtained convictions of two former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
analysts and a Merrill Lynch analyst for  insider trading  in
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ’s $61 billion takeover of Gillette Co., and
Adidas-Solomon AG’s purchase of Reebok International Ltd.  Wall Street contributed about 7 percent of  New York City ’s
tax revenue in fiscal 2011, almost half of the pre-recession
level of 13 percent, according to the city’s Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli . One in eight jobs in New York, and one in 13 in the
state, is associated with the financial industry, according to
DiNapoli.  “I am aware of the difference between regulation and
prosecution because I’ve been a prosecutor,” said Lawsky, a
graduate of  Columbia University  and its law school. “Part of
this job is not to cause banks that are doing honest business to
suffer because of damage done by a few.”  Several former chiefs of New York’s insurance and banking
departments said they believe Lawsky will strike the right
balance.  ‘Holistic View’  Lawsky “has a holistic view of government that’s not just
enforcement-oriented,” said  Eric Dinallo , an attorney at
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, a former state prosecutor who was New
York’s chief insurance regulator. Lawsky’s experience in the
governor’s office, and on the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee as
New York Democratic Senator Chuck Schumer’s counsel in the late
1990s, helped expand his vision, Dinallo said in an interview.  Richard Neiman, a PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP vice chairman
who served as the state’s superintendent of banks from 2007
until earlier this year, said Lawsky has “a great appreciation
for the history of the office and its role as a prudential
supervisor” that transcends his enforcement background.  “I have no reason to believe at this stage that he will
not get that balance right,” Neiman said.  “He’s a very impressive guy,” said Howard Mills, a former
New York superintendent of insurance now at Deloitte Touche
Tohmatsu Ltd.  At a conference on Oct. 11 hosted by SNL Financial and
attended by representatives of the finance and insurance
industries, Lawsky promised to listen to their views with an
open mind.  ‘Two Ears’  “My mother used to say, ‘You have two ears and one mouth
so you should listen twice as much as you talk,’ Lawsky told the
attendees. “I try to live by that as a regulator.”  Michael Smith , president of the New York Bankers
Association, said he worked closely with Lawsky as the
legislation creating the department was being crafted.  “Ben was very open, and took a very balanced approach,”
said Smith. “His background as a prosecutor did not concern us.
We expressed our support for him. Based on our experience, we
had confidence that he would be up to the job.”  Oversight Departments  The idea for combining the state’s two oversight
departments grew from Cuomo’s experience with banks in 2008,
Lawsky said. The sale of credit default swaps, a product beyond
the scope of insurance regulators, by  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) , an insurance company, showed the need for closer
coordination, he said.  “The governor lived through the financial crisis,” Lawsky
said. “He has a unique view of the regulatory failure that
contributed to it.”  Cuomo eventually retreated from the idea of a parallel
prosecutor after consulting with the industry and legislature,
leaving enforcement of the act to New York’s attorney general
and local district attorneys.  John Coffee , a professor at  Columbia Law School , said the
original proposal would have allowed the governor to maintain
some of the powers he enjoyed as attorney general.  In his remarks at the department’s inaugural ceremony,
Lawsky said regulators were being called upon to ease up on
business because of the slumping economy.  “It’s obvious that our economy right now is incredibly
fragile,” he told the audience, which included  Preet Bharara ,
the U.S. Attorney in  Manhattan , Manhattan District Attorney
Cyrus Vance, as well as 19 former heads of the banking and
insurance departments.  Powerful Sentiment  “At the same time, there is a powerful sentiment that no
one has been held accountable for the financial crisis, that
regulators are too cozy with the companies they regulate and
that the rich and powerful will not only keep getting richer and
more powerful, but will get bailed out -- while Main Street,
while regular people, get crushed.”  “What those kids stand for,” Lawsky continued, referring
to the “Occupy Wall Street” protesters camped a few blocks
from his office, “whether you agree with them or not, is real.
It is not going away.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Farrell in New York at   gregfarrell@bloomberg.net  and;
David McLaughlin in New York at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  and;
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 