-- 
Lawson’s Earnings Swell in Economic Malaise Hammering Japan Inc.: Retail

-- B y   C h e n g   H e r n g   S h i n n   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 
2011-10-20T23:26:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/lawson-s-earnings-swell-in-economic-malaise-hammering-japan-inc-retail.html
Japan’s biggest  convenience stores 
including  Lawson Inc. (2651)  and the 7-Eleven chain are benefiting from
the deflation, aging population and March 11 earthquake weighing
on the nation’s manufacturers and economy.  “Changing demographics and the willingness to spend more
for quality at convenience stores are major growth factors,”
Takeshi Niinami, president of Lawson, the country’s second-
biggest chain, said in an interview. “With the earthquake, the
trends are even more obvious.”  Lawson expects record operating profit this year as
Niinami’s strategy of focusing on the elderly and housewives
adds new customers. The retailer and rivals including Seven & I
Holdings Co.’s 7-Eleven chain and Familymart Co. have taken
advantage of Japan’s third year of deflation to lower costs
while maintaining or raising prices.  “In the past, about half of our lunch boxes sold for more
than 400 yen ($5.20), now the figure is 90 percent and unit
sales are doing well,” Takashi Shinno, a Familymart spokesman
said. “Even lunch boxes costing 580 yen are selling well.”  Familymart, Lawson and 7-Eleven had been offering higher-
quality lunches, pastries, fresh produce and women’s toiletries
for some years without making much headway in luring women and
older shoppers away from supermarkets because they didn’t
advertise much, said Toshio Takahashi, a consumer analyst at
Mizuho Securities Co. The magnitude-9 quake and ensuing tsunami,
 Japan ’s worst natural disaster on record, changed that as
customers flocked to the stores open around the clock, seven
days a week, he says.  Panic Buying  “A lot of people panicked and went to convenience stores
to buy water and realized that the merchandizing had changed,”
said Takahashi, who has a “buy” rating on Lawson and is ranked
first among analysts covering the company, according to
Bloomberg data.  Convenience store sales have climbed every month but one
this year for outlets open a year or more, rebounding after
dropping seven out of 12 months in 2010.  “The convenience store sector will continue to outperform
in the next six months to a year,” said  Mitsushige Akino , chief
 fund manager  at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in Tokyo.
“The industry will change dramatically in the next five years
because of an increase in single households and the elderly,”
said Akino, who oversees about $600 million. “This year might
be the tipping point.”  The Japanese economy this year hasn’t been as kind to
manufacturers including Sony Corp. and Toyota Motor Corp., which
are increasingly relying on overseas markets as a low birth-
rate, aging population and deflation deprive them of customers
and pricing power at home.  Population Drain  Auto demand has declined in four of the past five years in
Japan, where as of this year, one in four Japanese are at least
65-years-old and the population peaked in 2004 at 127.8 million
people.  Japan’s slump in domestic demand has contributed to a two
consecutive quarters of decline in gross domestic product.  Convenience stores are likely to keep outperforming whether
or not economic growth rebounds, said Jun Kawahara, a retail
analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. in  Tokyo . “It is good to
hold on to them, even when the economy is bad,” he said by
phone. “They will rise steadily.”  Lawson forecast operating profit will rise 11 percent this
fiscal year to a record 61.2 billion yen as sales more than
double to 473 billion yen. Seven & I, which gets about 40
percent of its revenue from the 7-Eleven chain, estimates
operating profit will jump 18 percent to 286 billion yen.  Operating profit for benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average
companies will grow an average of 9.6 percent in the coming
fiscal year, based on estimates by Toyo Keizai Inc.  Share Performance  Lawson has gained 10 percent this year as of yesterday in
Tokyo trading compared with the 15 percent drop in the  Nikkei
225 (NKY)  and a 0.7 percent gain in the Topix Retail Trade sub-index.
Familymart Co. is up 1.3 percent, while Seven & I, which also
owns the Ito Yokado supermarket chain, is down 1 percent.  “The hated Japanese retail sector, which was once seen as
the ugly duckling, is now a great place to invest going
forward,” says Mikihiko Yamato, an analyst at JI  Asia . “There
is very little downside.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheng Herng Shinn in Tokyo at 
 hcheng52@bloomberg.net ; 
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave McCombs at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net  