-- 
Banks Getting Aid From European Bailout Fund Must Restructure, Paper Shows

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-10-20T08:25:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/banks-receiving-eu-aid-would-have-to-restructure-paper-shows.html
Banks that need aid from  Europe ’s
440 billion-euro ($606 billion) rescue fund must be restructured
as a condition for receiving capital, according to draft
guidelines obtained by Bloomberg News.  The European Financial Stability Facility would provide
loans to national governments that in turn would inject the
capital into lenders deemed to pose systemic risk, according to
the European Union working paper. The draft stems from a July 21
agreement in Brussels to enhance the scope of the EFSF fund in a
bid to tackle Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has pledged to do
“everything necessary” to ensure that Europe’s banks have
enough capital to withstand market turmoil amid growing concern
that Greece is headed for a default. Boosting banks’ resilience
is part of a wider plan scheduled to be announced on Oct. 23 to
stamp out the debt crisis, which has roiled global markets and
dented confidence in the survival of the 17-nation currency.  “Experience has shown that some governments may not have
large enough resources, especially where the size of the
financial sector is large relative to the size of the economy,”
according to the paper. “In these cases, the new tool may serve
as the last-resort instrument to preserve financial stability.”  June Deadline  Banks should first seek capital from their owners and
secondly from national governments, followed by the European aid
fund, the paper says.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told a closed
parliamentary committee yesterday that he expects a deadline of
June 30, 2012, for European banks to meet increased capital
levels, said two lawmakers who attended the meeting. The lenders
will need to hold minimum core tier 1 capital, a measure of
financial strength, of 9 percent by that deadline, the lawmakers
said, speaking on condition of anonymity.  The European Banking Authority is assessing whether banks
could withstand sovereign debt writedowns, a person familiar
with the talks said on Oct. 12. The region’s lenders may need a
total of 243 billion euros using the EBA’s calculation method,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by  Kian Abouhossein  wrote in a
note to clients yesterday.  Stress Testing  The eligibility of a bank to receive EFSF funds via a loan
to the national government will be determined by stress testing,
the paper said. This examination could include a first estimate
because of timing constraints and then followed by a more
comprehensive analysis.  “As a rule, every beneficiary institution will be subject
to a restructuring plan commensurate with the extent of the
financial support received,” according to the draft. “The
objectives of these rules are to limit, to the maximum, the
distortion of competition while at the same time ensuring the
long-term viability of the aided institution, all while keeping
in mind the ultimate goal of preserving financial stability.”  Adherence to the conditions set by state-aid rules may
include on-site inspections of the banks by European
authorities, according to the paper. Another requirement may
also include opening the domestic market to foreign ownership
and entry, the paper says. Any profit from the recapitalization
must be used to help repay the aid.  In parallel to the bank recapitalization plans, European
leaders are debating whether to push  Greece ’s bondholders to
accept losses on the country’s sovereign debt that go beyond the
roughly 21 percent agreed on in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  