-- 
Bank of America Bosses Find Friend in the Fed: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-10-20T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/bank-of-america-bosses-find-friend-in-the-fed-jonathan-weil.html
One of the reasons so many Americans
are ticked off at the  Federal Reserve  is a lingering sense that
it puts big banks’ interests above those of ordinary taxpayers.
The news that the Fed is taking  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s side in
a dispute over where to park some of the company’s holdings only
reinforces that impression.  Here’s the gist of the story, broken two days ago by
Bloomberg News. Bank of America, which got hit with a credit-
rating downgrade last month by Moody’s Investors Service, has
moved an undisclosed amount of derivative financial instruments
from its Merrill Lynch unit to its biggest commercial-banking
subsidiary. The latter is loaded with insured deposits and has a
higher  credit rating  than Merrill or the parent company.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. is objecting to the
transfers. That part is easy to understand: More risk for the
retail lender means more risk for FDIC-insured deposits, which
ultimately are backstopped by the U.S. government.  The Fed, however, has signaled to the FDIC that it favors
the transfers. Shifting the derivatives to the commercial lender
may let Bank of America avoid collateral calls and termination
fees stemming from the rating downgrade. Some Merrill clients
may prefer having their contracts with the higher-rated unit. In
short, the Fed’s priorities seem to lie with protecting the
bank-holding company from losses at Merrill, even if that means
greater risks for the FDIC’s insurance fund.  Pushing an Agenda  Among the big questions we’re left with: Why is the Fed
going to bat for Bank of America in the first place? If the FDIC
doesn’t want its  insurance fund  exposed to potential losses from
these investment-banking trades, why expose it? And how many
other banks have managed to get the Fed to push their agenda in
the same sort of way?  Unfortunately, none of the actors here went on the record
to explain what’s going on. We don’t know what kinds of
derivatives these are, or even the dollars at stake, only that
they are big enough to make the FDIC upset. The entire story
would be playing out in secret were it not for some unidentified
whistleblowers who seem to have this crazy idea that the public
should be informed about what the regulators and Bank of America
are up to.  It’s not as if the FDIC’s deposit-insurance fund is flush
with cash. It finally turned positive last June, when it
finished with $3.9 billion of net assets, after seven
consecutive quarters of negative balances. A surprise failure by
even one community bank could easily wipe out that tiny surplus.  Capital Doubts  It’s also clear that the market harbors serious doubts
about whether Bank of America has enough capital. Its shares
trade for less than a third of the company’s common shareholder
equity. Transferring the derivatives to the commercial-lending
unit, where most of Bank of America’s derivatives are kept
already, would let the holding company avoid a capital hit. For
all we know, though, the derivative contracts Merrill wrote are
far more exotic.  Keep in mind: Merrill and Bank of America each needed two
rounds of federal bailout money, back in 2008 and 2009. As for
whether taxpayers are still on the hook now, sure, we’ve been
told the Dodd-Frank Act passed by Congress last year would end
federal bailouts of large banks. It doesn’t exactly do that,
though. Taxpayer money still would be at risk in the event that
the FDIC has to exercise its new resolution powers.  Dodd-Frank lets the FDIC borrow money from the Treasury to
finance a seized company’s operations for as long as five years.
While the law says the FDIC is supposed to tap the banking
industry to pay for any eventual losses, it’s hard to imagine
the agency could ever charge enough to cover the costs from a
failure at a company with $2.2 trillion of assets, or any other
giant financial institution, for that matter. Plus, there’s
always the chance Congress will change the law again.  If neither the regulators nor Bank of America will explain
what’s going on here, the only hope may be for Congress to start
asking its own questions. Perhaps then we might find out why the
Fed seems to believe it’s a good idea to let a huge bank-holding
company avoid a blow to its capital by shifting more of its
trading risks onto the retail crowd. Taxpayers deserve to know.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  