-- 
Bank of Italy’s Visco Nominated to Succeed Draghi as Central Bank Governor

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-10-20T20:22:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/bank-of-italy-s-visco-nominated-to-succeed-draghi-as-governor.html
Bank of Italy Deputy Director
General Ignazio Visco was nominated by Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  to succeed  Mario Draghi  as the central bank governor,
ending months of political bickering over the appointment.  Visco, considered a dark-horse candidate, was nominated in
a letter sent by Berlusconi to the central bank’s Board of
Directors, which provides a non-binding opinion before final
approval by President Giorgio Napolitano, the premier’s office
said in an e-mailed statement from  Rome  today. Draghi takes over
from  Jean-Claude Trichet  as European Central Bank president on
Nov. 1.  “It’s surprising,” said Riccardo Barbieri, chief European
economist at Mizuho International Plc in London. Still, Visco, a
former chief economist at the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, “has strong qualifications” and
“an exceptionally broad skill set.”  Visco’s six-year term would start as  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis threatens to engulf Italy and Spain and to infect
the banking sector of the 17-currency bloc. The nomination also
ends a deadlock over Draghi’s successor that reflected divisions
in Italy’s government at a time when Berlusconi is struggling to
convince investors that he can tame the euro region’s second-
biggest debt after  Greece .  Bini Smaghi  ECB Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi had been
the frontrunner for the post, a deputy minister who was
informed of Berlusconi’s decision and declined to be identified
said earlier today. Other candidates considered ahead of Visco
were Bank of Italy Director General Fabrizio Saccomanni and
Treasury Director General Vittorio Grilli.  Earlier this year, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  had
demanded that Bini Smaghi step down to avoid having two Italians
and no Frenchman on the board after Trichet retires. Bini Smaghi
has so far refused to give up his role at the ECB, where he
oversees international relations, legal services and the
Frankfurt-based central bank’s new premises project.  “The French obviously feel they should have a French
member” on the Executive Board, “and this nomination doesn’t
solve the problem,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income
strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in  London .  Record Yields  Visco, a Naples native, would take over at the central bank
as the ECB continues to prop up Italian and Spanish debt markets
to stem borrowing costs that surged to record highs amid concern
that they may fall victim to Europe’s debt crisis. The yield on
Italy’s 10-year bond reached 6.018 percent today, the highest
since the before the ECB started buying Italian bonds on Aug. 8,
as European leaders failed to agree on steps to end the crisis.  When EU leaders confirmed Draghi, 64, to succeed Trichet on
June 24, Berlusconi pledged to nominate his successor the
following week. Visco wasn’t among the three candidates he
cited: Bini Smaghi, Saccomanni and Grilli.  Political bickering ensued. Berlusconi and Finance Minister
Giulio Tremonti clashed over the appointment, with the premier
backing Saccomanni and Tremonti preferring Grilli, Il Sole 24
Ore daily reported on Sept. 28. Grilli, who is from Milan, was
also supported by  Umberto Bossi , leader of the  Northern League ,
which holds the key to Berlusconi’s parliamentary majority and
whose power base is Milan.  Visco, 62, is one of three deputy directors-general at the
 Bank of Italy . He started his career at the central bank in
1972, holds a degree in economics from the University of Rome
and a doctorate from the University of Pennsylvania. Between
1997 and 2002, he was chief economist at the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 