-- 
Bats Merger With Chi-X Wins Provisional U.K. Antitrust Clearance

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-10-20T06:32:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/bats-merger-with-chi-x-wins-provisional-u-k-antitrust-clearance.html
Bats Global Markets Inc.’s
acquisition of Chi-X  Europe  Ltd., the region’s biggest
alternative trading system, was provisionally cleared by U.K.
antitrust regulators, who said sufficient competition remains.  Customers of both exchanges will still have the power to
prevent the merged companies from raising trading fees by
threatening to take their business to competitors, the U.K.
 Competition Commission  said today.  “The customers of both these exchanges are in a
particularly powerful position to combat any attempt by the
merged company to raise trading fees, reduce service quality or
otherwise exploit any loss of competition,” said Malcolm Nicholson, chairman of the regulator’s inquiry group.  Chi-X Europe, founded in March 2007 and owned by banks and
brokers, has been in talks to be acquired by Bats, the operator
of the second-largest alternative trading system in Europe. The
merger was referred to the Competition Commission in June and
the regulator is due to issue a final report by Dec. 2.  European Union regulators are examining a separate deal
between Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse  and the owner of the New
York Stock Exchange, which would create the world’s biggest
stock market.  Chi-X Europe was the first alternative trading platform in
Europe to compete with traditional exchanges such as LSE and
Deutsche Boerse by offering lower fees and faster trading.  The trading platform is partly owned by Instinet LLC, a New
York-based unit of Nomura Holdings Inc., and by investment banks
and traders including  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Getco LLC, Bank of
America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley. Bats is owned
by Bank of America, Citigroup, Getco, Credit Suisse and Morgan
Stanley, among others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  