-- 
Baxter Drops After Factory Upgrades Weighed Down Margins

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-10-20T20:16:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/baxter-raises-lower-end-of-full-year-forecast-for-earnings.html
Baxter International Inc. (BAX) , the maker
of blood products and intravenous drugs, fell 2.1 percent after
higher costs and increased competition caused investor concern
for the company’s 2012 outlook.  Baxter slipped to $53.86 at 4 p.m. New York time. Even a
raised profit forecast for 2011 couldn’t overcome concerns about
the Deerfield, Illinois-based company’s performance next year,
said Junaid Husain, an analyst with Ticonderoga Securities in
New York.  Baxter’s gross margin, the percentage of sales left after
deducting the cost of goods and services, were lower than
expected, due to the expense of upgrades at a plant in Ireland
as well as shifting exchange rates, Husain said. That, along
with climbing competition in the market, raised questions about
Baxter’s prospects, the analyst said in an e-mail.  “Investors are spooked about headwinds going into 2012,”
Husain said.  Earnings, excluding one-time items, for 2011 will be $4.29
to $4.32 a share, Baxter said in a statement today. The company
previously forecast $4.27 to $4.32. Third-quarter profit beat by
1 cent the $1.08 average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  High Expectations  “Expectations relative to the rest of the space for Baxter
were relatively high coming into” the earnings announcement, so
the weakness of the gross margin may have disappointed
investors, said Aaron Vaughn, an Edward Jones & Co. analyst in
 St. Louis , in a telephone interview.  Husain, who has a “buy” rating on Baxter, said he still
likes the stock. Baxter is developing new treatments for blood
disorders and Alzheimer’s disease, which probably will boost the
shares next year, he said.  Third-quarter profit was $576 million, or $1.01 per share,
a 10 percent increase from a year earlier, the company said.
Revenue of $3.48 billion was helped by a 13 percent increase in
sales in emerging markets, the company said. That demand more
than offset U.S. sales growth of 1 percent.  The company was helped by better-than-expected sales for
immune-system treatments, said  Rick Wise , a Leerink Swann & Co.
analyst in  New York .  “Baxter fared well in a seasonally weak quarter and a
challenging economy,” Wise said in a note to clients. “We’re
inclined to think that Baxter management is being conservative
for Q4 given what seemed to be even weaker-than-usual
macroeconomic trends” in the third quarter.  Before today, the shares had gained 8.7 percent for the
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 