-- 
Belarus Adopts ‘Managed’ Ruble Float, May Raise Main Rate

-- B y   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i   a n d   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 
2011-10-20T17:33:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/belarus-adopts-managed-ruble-float-may-raise-main-rate-2-.html
Belarus’s central bank will operate
a “managed float” of the ruble to smooth volatility on the
foreign-exchange market and may increase the world’s highest
interest rate for an 11th time this year.  The ruble slid to 8,680 per  U.S. dollar  from 5,712 after
the official government  exchange rate  was unified with a free-
floating rate introduced last month. The central bank expects
the currency to appreciate and would like it to reach 7,000-
8,000, Chairman Nadezhda Ermakova said today.  “The exchange rate will be determined on the basis of
supply and demand, with minimal intervention from the
Natsionalnyi Bank to prevent sharp movements,” Ermakova told
reporters in the capital, Minsk. “Interventions can be in both
foreign currencies and in rubles.”  The former Soviet republic was granted a $3 billion bailout
loan by the Russia-led Eurasian Economic Community in June as it
grappled with a balance-of-payments crisis that forced a 36
percent devaluation of the ruble the previous month. The central
bank has raised its refinancing rate, the highest among those
countries tracked by Bloomberg at 35 percent, 10 times since
January as the weaker currency stokes inflation.  Belarus’s $1 billion of bonds due 2015 fell, snapping a
four-day winning streak and sending the yield 35 basis points
higher to 16.14 percent.  Reserves to Rise  Belarus’s gold and foreign-exchange reserves, which rose by
$134.9 million last month to $4.7 billion, may increase by a
further $4 billion by year-end, Ermakova said.  The sale of a 50 percent stake in pipeline operator
Beltransgaz to  Russia ’s natural-gas export monopoly OAO Gazprom
may generate $2.5 billion of that, while Belarus may borrow $1
billion from OAO Sberbank and is due to receive a $440 million
tranche of its Eurasian Economic Community loan, she said.  While Belarus has asked the  International Monetary Fund  for
a bailout loan, its application may be rejected after courts
jailed opposition politicians, according to Ermakova, echoing
comments by President  Alexander Lukashenko .  The IMF in a statement Oct. 17 called the merging of the
country’s exchange rates “another very important step forward”
and denied that an emergency loan would carry political
requirements. The Washington-based fund expects Belarus’s
economy to expand 5.5 percent this year and 1.4 percent in 2012,  “In order to stabilize our economy, we will need to live
very modestly in 2012,” Ermakova said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk, Belarus at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net 
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  