-- 
Betfair’s Exposure of ‘X Factor’ Scam Shows Need to Fight Cheats

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-10-20T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/betfair-s-exposure-of-x-factor-scam-shows-need-to-fight-cheats.html
Betfair Group Plc (BET) ’s system, in which
customers bet against each other online, has been singled out by
rivals as potentially making it easier for cheats to use inside
information. The company’s response is to cite the “ X Factor .”  In April, the U.K.’s Gambling Commission found three Virgin
Media Inc. employees had  misused access  to company data on
telephone voting on last year’s edition of the television talent
show to bet on which contestant would be eliminated. They were
caught after Betfair flagged suspicious betting patterns.  “If they’re trying to hide their identity, they can’t do
that at Betfair,” said Susannah Gill, a Betfair spokeswoman.
“All our systems are online, unlike traditional bookmakers. We
know exactly who our customer is, where their bank account is.
We can provide that to sport.”  While all betting companies have a clear interest in
combating cheats, for Betfair the stakes may be even higher. The
online gambling company’s betting exchange system, which allows
betting on a horse to lose, is unfamiliar enough abroad to make
it a tricky sell to regulators, making it harder for Betfair to
expand abroad. The system isn’t allowed in  France  or  Italy .  “This is a relatively new product, it’s not well
understood outside the U.K.,” said Geetanjali Sharma, an
analyst with Espirito Santo who has a “sell” recommendation on
Betfair. “It is extremely important they monitor betting
patterns to ensure there’s no match fixing, no  money laundering ,
no collusion.”  European Regulation  Betfair and competitors including  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD)  hunt
evidence of suspicious betting to help regulators. To grow,
European gambling companies need countries such as Spain, Greece
and  Germany  to approve betting rules flexible enough to let them
make a profit. To help sway officials, they set up monitoring
systems to hunt evidence of cheating and match fixing, said
David Forrest, a University of Salford economist.  “Everyone’s very keen to be good corporate citizens,
because everyone wants to persuade the courts and the European
Commission,” said Forrest, who studies match rigging. “They’re
all saying they should be the one to protect consumers -- that’s
the great battle over betting in  Europe .”  Concerns about betting and game fixing are growing, as the
World Lottery Association estimates that illegal gambling is $90
billion worldwide. Two Pakistani cricket players are on trial in
London on charges of conspiring to take bribes to fix plays in a
Test match against  England  last year.  Of 197 cases of suspicious betting logged with the Gambling
Commission between September 2007 and March 2011, 125 were
reported by betting companies, according to licensing body data.  X Factor  In the ‘X Factor’ case, the commission voided bets totaling
more than 16,000 pounds ($25,200) after Betfair’s integrity
team, which can monitor up to 6 million transactions daily,
reported suspicious betting patterns. The outcome of the
competition last year, won by singer  Matt Cardle , wasn’t
affected, the commission said.  Betfair has eight people monitoring bets in London and four
in Hobart, Tasmania, while Ladbrokes gives the job to its
traders, who set odds.  William Hill Plc (WMH)  wouldn’t give details,
referring questions to the company’s annual report.  Match fixers generally avoid markets such as the U.K.,
where data is reported to regulators and sports bodies,
according to Detlev Zenglein, head of competition analysis at
Early Warning System, which monitors sports betting for FIFA,
soccer’s world governing body.  However they may be tempted to wager on Betfair because of
the appeal of betting against another customer, who may not be
as well informed as a bookmaker, he said.  The company itself is “quite open with us; good
collaborators,” Zenglein said.  Information  Betfair takes a 2 percent to 5 percent fee on customer
wins, while traditional bookmakers win when their customers lose
and vice versa.  “The consumer doesn’t know who they’re betting against,”
said Mike O’Kane, business director for Harrow, England-based
Ladbrokes, of Betfair’s system. “You could be betting against
somebody who knows something.”  Betfair officials say the company’s systems provide better
information than traditional bookmakers, where a wager could be
in cash registered on a paper slip at a bet shop.  “Setting up a Betfair account is like setting up a bank
account,” Gill said. “We have all the information on you your
bank does, which makes hiding corruption in sports incredibly
difficult.”  The company’s data can be particularly useful to
regulators, because it can point to whether people with inside
information are wagering, said Paul Scotney, director of
integrity services and licensing at the British Horseracing
Authority.  “You can’t know a horse is going to win; you can know it’s
going to lose,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in  London  at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  