-- 
BHP CEO Says Europe Mills Under Pressure, China Keeps Buying Ore

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-10-20T16:06:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/bhp-ceo-says-europe-mills-under-pressure-china-keeps-buying-ore.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, said a slump in demand for  iron ore  from
European  steel mills  has hurt prices while orders from its
largest customer China have so far been unaffected.  “In  Europe , many steel companies have, or are in the
process of, reducing their steelmaking capacity and I think that
that is what’s played through on the sentiment in the iron ore
business,”  Marius Kloppers , chief executive officer of the
Melbourne-based company, told reporters today in London. “In
China overall, which will over the long run be the driver of
prices, we have not seen anything really happening there yet.”  BHP is the third-largest exporter of iron ore, with sales
of the steelmaking material generating $6.5 billion in earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization in the 2011
fiscal year. While Chinese orders have held up, European steel
mills have scaled back as a slowdown in economic growth erodes
demand. ArcelorMittal, the biggest steelmaker, has idled plants
in Luxembourg, France, Germany and  Spain  in the past two months.  The biggest iron-ore suppliers, including BHP competitors
 Vale SA (VALE3) , Rio Tinto Group and  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , last year ended
a four-decade old industry practice of pricing sales annually in
favor of quarterly accords. BHP continues to push for shorter-
term pricing for all its products, Kloppers said today following
the company’s annual general meeting in London.  Monthly Price  The company is now selling the “vast majority” of its ore
on monthly prices, according to Kloppers, 49. “For all
practical purposes, our stuff is monthly priced or even
shipment-priced, which means you price it when the ship loads.”  Vale sees no reason to abandon quarterly price contracts
and considers them “the most appropriate methodology” for iron
ore, the Rio de Janeiro-based company said yesterday. The spot
price of ore delivered to  China  fell 1.3 percent to $145.80 a
metric ton today, the lowest in more than a year and about 17
percent below the fourth-quarter contract price. It’s down 19
percent in the past six weeks as traders delay orders.  “We’re seeing a set of conditions now, to a much lesser
extent than annual contracts, but those customers that bought
from other suppliers at quarterly prices are out of the market
with where the price is today,” Kloppers said. “That always
gives the less-creditworthy customers pause about where they
think about what they do.”  Chinese Steel Drops  Crude-steel production in China fell in September to 56.7
million tons, the lowest level in seven months, according to
data from the National Bureau of Statistics and compiled by
Bloomberg. Output reached a record 60.3 million tons in May.  “BHP has been selling the highest proportion of ore at
near spot or monthly pricing over the past 12 months and has the
most experience extracting maximum value from a dynamic pricing
environment,” Eugene King, a London-based analyst at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., wrote in a report today. “Rio and Anglo are
more conservative historically, and would take time to adjust.”  Jiangsu Shagang Group Co., China’s biggest non-state
steelmaker, may delay ore purchases should steel output need to
be cut, Vice President Shen Wenming said in an Oct. 17
interview. Shen described China’s steel market as “very bad.”  In 2008, some steelmakers defaulted on shipments priced
annually as spot prices for the ore moved below the contract
price.  “I wouldn’t say that I’ve seen any of what I saw in the
global financial crisis, which was the sort of equivalent of
forum shopping where one party’s customers defaulted but bought
from another customer,” Kloppers said. “These pricing
arrangements have really seriously mitigated that sort of
behavior.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  