-- 
Biden’s Hometown Offers Evidence of Re-Election Uphill Climb

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-10-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/biden-s-hometown-of-scranton-offers-evidence-of-re-election-uphill-climb.html
When native son Joe Biden held a
campaign rally at the Riverfront Sports Complex in Scranton,
 Pennsylvania  in October 2008, the future vice president could
count on a vote from its owner, Michael Vacendak. That’s not the
case three years later.  “People are less enthusiastic about the election as a
whole, almost like we’ve been burned so many times now, it
doesn’t matter who’s elected,” said Vacendak, 53. A registered
Democrat, he is considering backing Herman Cain, a former
Godfather’s Pizza Inc. chairman, because “he’s more of a
businessman than a politician, which I kind of think is what’s
needed.”  Pennsylvania’s 20 Electoral College votes are critical for
President Barack Obama’s re-election as his support has slipped
in battleground states such as  Virginia  and  North Carolina . The
president captured the state in 2008 with 54.5 percent of the
vote. Since then, Republicans have taken Pennsylvania’s
governorship, a U.S. Senate seat and five U.S. House seats from
Democrats.  Obama’s disapproval rating in Pennsylvania stands at 54
percent and 51 percent say he doesn’t deserve re-election,
according to a Sept. 28 Quinnipiac University poll. That poll
also showed Obama tied with former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , a contender for the Republican presidential nomination.  “If it was Obama-Romney, as of right now, it would be
tough for the president to carry Pennsylvania,” former
Pennsylvania Governor  Ed Rendell , a Democrat, said in an
interview.  Blue Collar Workers  With time, he said, the president will regain the
advantage, especially if he continues to push a jobs theme that
gives him “a populist voice, which resonates tremendously well
with blue collar workers.”  Almost one in five Pennsylvania workers are employed by the
manufacturing or construction sectors, according to Labor
Department data compiled by Bloomberg. Manufacturing jobs in the
state decreased by 10.5 percent from August 31, 2008 to August
31, 2011, the data shows. The unemployment rate in the Keystone
State is 8.2 percent, up from 6.8 percent in January 2009, when
Obama took office.  Obama’s prospects in Pennsylvania will depend on how much
support he gets in such Democratic strongholds as Scranton, an
old coal mining town that was Biden’s home until he was 10 years
old.  “If the president can’t win Scranton, he’s not going to
win the state,” said  Terry Madonna , a political scientist at
Franklin & Marshall College in Lancaster, Pennsylvania.  Scranton Market  Obama and Republican nominee Senator  John McCain , of
 Arizona , spent more than $5 million in the Wilkes-Barre/Scranton
media market in 2008, which put it in the top 10 percent of
targeted markets, according to New York-based KantarMedia/CMAG,
which tracks political advertising.  Ken Goldstein , the company’s
president, said he expects the same results in 2012.  With its high percentage of Democratic voters, the re-
election will “want to maximize” those votes. “They don’t
need to just win Scranton, they need to really win Scranton,”
said Goldstein.  Once the hub of a thriving steel industry, Scranton’s
population has been falling since the Great Depression and today
is about 76,000, census data shows. The  unemployment rate  in
Lackawanna County, in which Scranton is the county seat, is 9.6
percent, compared with the national rate of 9.1 percent. The
number of manufacturing jobs in the region in 2010 was 28,000,
down from 43,000 in 2001. Democratic voter registration in the
county is twice that of Republicans.  Biden Trips  The White House has tried to maintain a connection with the
state through 29 visits made by Biden, 68. On Sept. 16, the vice
president toured flood damage in Duryea, about eight miles from
Scranton, from  Hurricane Irene  and Tropical Storm Lee. On Oct.
18, Biden touted the administration’s jobs plan in York and
Philadelphia, events covered by local media.  At Doc Magrogan’s Oyster House, just outside of Scranton,
two local labor leaders, a county official, and a former local
 Republican Party  official shared oysters, beer and their
theories on why the political environment has soured on Obama.  “There’s a lot less hope now than when he ran on hope,”
said Drew Simpson, 47, a leader of the local carpenters union
and a former high school wrestler.  At least half of the approximately 1,400 members in his
union “are not happy” with the administration’s job creation
efforts and its support for the  Colombia ,  South Korea , and
Panama trade deals, which they say will cost U.S. jobs, he said.  Voter Frustration  “The frustration that our members have are with the whole
political system,” Simpson said. “It’s not Republican. It’s
not Democrat. It’s not independent. It’s not  Tea Party . It’s all
of them, but it rubs off on Obama because he’s the head man.”  That’s because, said Rick Schraeder, 61, president of the
local electrical workers union, “people are losing things they
worked their whole life for, some of them have to cash in
 retirement plans . So, when they suffer, they want to blame
whoever’s there, whether they’re responsible or not.”  Paul Catalano, 68, the former chairman of the county
Republican Party, said Obama’s “fallen short of leadership,
they don’t look at him right now as a leader.”  A similar downbeat assessment can be heard at Hank’s
Hoagies, a favorite stop for Biden when he’s in town. The small
store is located just a few blocks away from the vice
president’s childhood home on a tree-lined street with houses
decorated for Halloween.  After picking up a ham and cheese sandwich, Paul McGloin,
60, who owns a florist business in Scranton, stopped for an
interview in which he said that while he favored  Hillary Clinton 
in the Democratic primary he voted for Obama in the general
election. He’s not sure he’ll do it again.  Uncertainty About Obama  “I really wasn’t that enthusiastic in 2008 and I was
hoping Hillary would get the nomination,” McGloin said, adding
that business at his store has gone down about 20 percent since
2008.  Shampooing hair in the downtown salon, NOW Hair, registered
Democrat Kristen Sherman said she’s decided not to vote for
Obama again.  “Democrats are being far too passive about things,” she
said. “Bush, at least, stuck to his guns. Now I feel like we’re
in this begging match with the Senate to pass bills that are
going to help Americans.”  Ben LaBolt , an Obama re-election spokesman, said the
campaign will be working to win back Sherman and other
disillusioned supporters by drawing contrasts with the eventual
Republican nominee.  “While the president’s fighting to create jobs now and
restore economic security for the middle class, none of the
Republican candidates have offered a plan that would achieve
either goal,” he said. “Instead they’ve repackaged the same
economic policies that led to our challenges.”  ‘Give ‘Em Hell’  Anne Kearns, 76, raised six children in the three-story,
six-bedroom house where Biden grew up. She plans to support
Obama and Biden in next year’s election, as she did in 2008.  “I think they’re doing the best that they can with what
they’re working with,” she said in an interview in the living
room of the modest home.  Kearns said Obama should rely on Biden to communicate the
administration’s message to middle-class voters because “Obama
is the kind of personality that is not forceful in his talk.
’Give ‘em hell Harry’ is what everybody wants, get like Truman,
you tell them what’s going on. Don’t present it to them.”  Jim Kennedy, 71, a retired judge who used to walk the vice
president to and from school, said Scranton Democrats will
rebound in time for the election. “Obama will do well here
because of  Joe Biden ,” he said. “Winning is the name of the
game, dragging every vote out, and we know how to do that up
here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Scranton, Pennsylvania, at 
   kandersen7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 