-- 
Bankers’ Objections to Volcker Rule Fail on the Merits: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-20T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/big-u-s-banks-main-objections-to-volcker-rule-fail-on-the-merits-view.html
Big U.S. banks have found a lot not
to like in the Volcker rule. We agree that regulations shouldn’t
be unduly burdensome. But we see no good reason to share banks’
objections on this one.  The rule, mandated in the Dodd-Frank Act and named after
former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , is supposed to bar
federally insured banks from making speculative bets for their
own account -- the kind of proprietary trading that generates
juicy profits and bonuses in good times, but can lead to heavy
losses in bad times. The idea is that if traders want to take
big risks, they should do it outside deposit-taking institutions
that enjoy the explicit backing of U.S. taxpayers.  Regulators recently proposed a  version  of the rule that,
while imperfect, hews close to the intent of Dodd-Frank and
seeks to narrow loopholes. Given the criticism the proposal has
already faced -- including from JPMorgan Chase Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon , who said it could put U.S. companies at a
“huge disadvantage” -- we thought it would be helpful to address
the main objections on the merits.  The rule is too complex.  The complexity is largely financial-industry lobbyists’ own
doing. They have argued that a proprietary trading ban would
hinder market making, in which banks facilitate customers’
trades, and underwriting, in which banks help their clients
issue new stocks and bonds. As a result, many of the proposed
rule’s 298 pages and 383 questions are devoted to carving out
exceptions for such activities that won’t create huge loopholes
for banks to exploit.  If banks would prefer a simpler rule, why not return to the
 Glass-Steagall Act ? In about a page, the 1933 law largely
limited banks to taking deposits and making loans. Other firms
handled market making and underwriting perfectly well before the
law’s 1999 repeal.  Otherwise, yes, banks that want to manage different
businesses under one roof might have to handle a little
complexity. It’s worth noting that the typical mortgage bond
 prospectus  runs into the hundreds of pages. The final Volcker
rule will probably be shorter than that.  The rule is too costly.  Only 25 of the largest U.S. banks will face significantly
larger compliance costs, according to a study by Bloomberg
Government. What’s more, those banks could avoid most costs if
they spun off their trading and underwriting activities, a move
for which the rule’s two-year transition period provides ample
accommodation. The remaining 995 U.S. bank holding companies
won’t have to comply with the Volcker rule’s more onerous
reporting requirements, because their trading assets fall below
a threshold of $1 billion.  Proprietary trading didn’t cause the crisis.  True. But once the crisis started, trading losses made it a
lot worse. Proprietary trades gone bad took a $15.8 billion bite
out of the capital of the six largest U.S. banks during the
darkest days of 2007 and 2008,  according  to the Government
Accountability Office. Because banks typically lend or invest
about $10 for every $1 in capital, the losses probably reduced
the available credit in the economy by roughly $160 billion.  Combining the mundane business of taking deposits and
making loans with high-stakes proprietary trading also
complicates bailouts. As the growing Occupy Wall Street protests
illustrate, bailing out institutions that pay huge bonuses to
traders and executives doesn’t sit well with the public. There’s
nothing inherently wrong with big compensation packages, as long
as they’re not at taxpayer expense.  The rule will stunt economic growth.  There’s little evidence to support this, and it’s entirely
possible that the benefit of avoiding credit-sapping trading
losses will outweigh any compliance costs.  If banks insist on maintaining trading activities, the
industry will spend an aggregate 4.8 million hours setting up
compliance operations, and an additional 1.8 million hours a
year on reporting, regulators  estimate . At a generous $500 an
hour, that comes to $2.4 billion initially and $900 million a
year beyond that. The recurring cost represents about 1 percent
of credit institutions’ average annual pretax profits as
measured by the Commerce Department.  On the upside, if commercial banks are more resilient,
financial crises will be less likely to trigger recessions, and
banks will be able to keep lending precisely when the economy
needs it most. Although hard to quantify, these benefits are
likely to be very large.  The rule will make U.S. banks uncompetitive.  Traders within commercial banks have enjoyed an unfair
advantage, because the institutions’ federal backing gives them
access to cheap money. If U.S. taxpayers stop subsidizing
proprietary trading in this way, they will level the playing
field. That could actually improve the competitive position of
 hedge funds , securities dealers and other firms that aren’t
federally insured.  True, big U.S. banks might find it harder to compete with
foreign institutions whose traders still enjoy taxpayer support.
But that’s not a very good argument against the rule. The multi-
billion-dollar losses of rogue traders, such as  Jerome Kerviel 
at French bank Societe Generale SA and Kweku Adoboli at Swiss
bank UBS Ltd., suggest the Europeans should be following the
U.S., not the other way around. U.S. regulators should also
maintain a clause in the proposed rule that forbids banks to
design trader pay in ways that reward risk-taking.  Risky activity will continue outside the banking system.  Hallelujah. That’s exactly where it should be. Of course,
as the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the
demise of Long-Term Capital Management LP have demonstrated,
financial institutions besides banks can threaten the system,
too. Regulators are working out criteria to identify the
dangerous ones, and Dodd-Frank allows the Fed to impose tougher
rules on them.  Just about any reform creates winners and losers. In the
year ended July 2011, financial industry representatives held
265 meetings with federal agencies about the rule, compared with
only 18 meetings for groups that could have provided a
counterweight, according to research by Duke University law
professor Kimberly Krawiec. The fact that the rule has survived
this far is a testament to its fundamental wisdom. May the
merits prevail.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 