-- 
Blackstone Posts Quarterly Loss as Value of Buyout Investments Drop 11%

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-10-20T20:23:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/blackstone-posts-quarterly-loss-as-value-of-buyout-investments-drops-11-.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
largest private-equity firm, posted an unexpected third-quarter
loss on an 11 percent drop in the value of its buyout holdings
and forecast stagnant economic conditions into 2012.  The company, led by Chairman  Stephen Schwarzman , faced a
volatile market in the third quarter as global stocks fell 18
percent, putting “on hold” most plans for initial public
offerings of portfolio companies, Blackstone President  Tony
James  said today on a conference call. Unsettled markets helped
deals in real estate, debt financing and in Europe.  “The main effects were increasing the investment
opportunities and lowering the exit opportunities,” James said.
For 2012, “our general economic view is stagnation, slow, not
falling apart, but certainly not much in the way of growth. I
candidly expect a continuation of the environment we’re in.”  Economic net income, a measure of earnings excluding some
costs tied to the firm’s initial public offering, showed a loss
of $341.9 million, or 31 cents a share, compared with a profit
of $339.3 million, or 31 cents, a year earlier, New York-based
Blackstone said today in a statement. That missed the 1-cent
average profit estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg,
with forecasts ranging from a 41-cent loss to a 39-cent gain.  Worldwide, the value of leveraged buyouts fell 33 percent
to $23.2 billion in the third quarter from the second, data
compiled by Bloomberg shows, amid signs that banks were hesitant
to finance deals because of  Europe ’s debt crisis and a slowdown
in U.S. economic growth.  Challenging Market  Blackstone is seen as a bellwether for the buyout industry
given its size and reach across markets. Publicly traded rivals
KKR & Co. and Apollo Global Management LLC are scheduled to
report results next month.  “The third quarter presented extremely challenging market
conditions, dominated by risk aversion and volatility,”
Schwarzman said in the statement. “Our earnings were not immune
to the sharp downward trajectory of global markets.”  U.S. and European valuations have “rebounded” since Sept.
30, the firm said in the statement.  Hilton Worldwide, The Weather Channel and Vanguard Health
Systems are among 70 companies owned by Blackstone funds. The
portfolio has combined annual revenue of about $115 billion,
Schwarzman said today on a conference call with investors, and
the firm estimates aggregate sales grew 10 percent to 12 percent
in the third quarter.  Favorable Conditions  “In terms of new investments conditions remain favorable
for us,” Schwarzman said. “Given significant distress in the
system and the short supply of opportunistic capital, we expect
these conditions to persist for several years.”  Blackstone has invested more than $7 billion in real estate
this year, and has raised $4 billion for its latest property
fund that the firm expects to exceed $10 billion, Schwarzman
said.  European banks are “now really starting to liquidate real
estate assets,” he said.  Blackstone rose 1.6 percent to $13.45 at the close in  New
York . The stock has declined almost 5 percent this year, and
trades at less than half its 2007 IPO price of $31 a share.  Performance fees, which include the company’s portion of
profits from investments known as carried interest, were a
negative $456.3 million, erasing gains recorded in earlier
quarters. Investment income was a negative $100.4 million,
compared with a gain of $141 million a year earlier.  Emdeon,  Jack Wolfskin   Fee-earning assets under management rose to $132.9 billion
from $129 billion on June 30.  Blackstone’s economic net income doesn’t comply with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. The net loss under
those standards was $274.6 million in the quarter versus a loss
of $44.4 million a year earlier.  During the third quarter, Blackstone agreed to buy  Emdeon
Inc. (EM)  for about $3 billion, taking the health-care billing firm
private again after two years as a public company. The firm also
acquired Jack Wolfskin, a German outdoor clothing company, and
Mint Hotels, with eight properties in the U.K. and Europe.  The firm had a record high $33.4 billion of uninvested
capital, known as “dry powder,” as of Sept. 30.  ‘Healthy’ Financing  Blackstone yesterday said it’s buying a stake in German
camera maker Leica Camera AG, and said Oct. 16 it agreed to
acquire Antares Restaurant Group, the New Zealand franchiser of
Burger King, from Sydney-based Anchorage Capital Partners.
Earlier this month, the firm’s credit investment arm GSO  Capital
Partners  LP bought Dublin-based Harbourmaster Capital Management
Ltd. to increase its European loan holdings.  Leveraged-loan financing is “pretty healthy” in the U.S.,
James said, noting that Blackstone’s recent Emdeon debt deal was
done at better  interest rates  and more capital than
underwritten, and that most major banks are “open for
business.”  “There’s a limit to the size of course,” James said.
“Europe is much, much tougher. It’s tough to get debt financing
in Europe, and the scale is much more limited.”  Schwarzman, who founded Blackstone in 1985 with  Peter G. Peterson  and is ranked 66th on the Forbes list of richest
Americans, has expanded the firm’s non-LBO businesses such as
fund-of-hedge funds, publicly traded debt vehicles, and
restructuring advice.  Taxes and Inflation  Private-equity firms get money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to use it to buy
companies within five to six years, overhaul then sell them, and
return funds with a profit after about 10 years. The firms
typically charge an annual management fee equal to 1.5 percent
to 2 percent of committed funds and keep 20 percent of profit
from investments.  The private-equity industry is likely to be heavily
criticized during the U.S. presidential campaign should Mitt
Romney win the Republican nomination, James said. Romney was one
of the founders of Boston-based buyout firm Bain Capital LLC.  “This is inevitably going to be an extremely negative
campaign,” James said. “One of Mitt’s vulnerabilities has been
attacking him on private equity,” and “I think it will be
villainized by the Democratic machine, and I think it will be
terrible for the industry and I’m not looking forward to it.”  James said he expects increased taxes, government spending
cuts “and probably inflation” as federal deficit issues are
tackled.  “I think all of the affluent people in America will have
higher taxes, and I think they should pay more,” James said on
the media call. “Don’t tell Steve I said that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  