-- 
Bolivia’s Amazon Highway a Bumpy Road for Morales, Brazil: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-20T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/bolivia-s-amazon-highway-has-become-a-bumpy-road-for-morales-brazil-view.html
Evo Morales’s recent behavior has
made it unclear just who and what the Bolivian president is for
anymore. This has big implications not just for Bolivia but also
for the rest of  Latin America  and the world.  Morales was elected twice as a champion of his fellow
indigenous people. He’s been a paladin for Mother Earth,
recently pushing for international adoption of a Bolivian law
granting nature rights, to be protected like those of human
beings. Yet, in insisting on cutting a Brazilian-financed
 highway  through the delicate Amazon forest, bifurcating the
autonomous homelands of three indigenous groups, Morales has
trampled on both causees.  This duplicity caught up with him last month after police
roughed up indigenous protesters marching from their homes
toward the capital,  La Paz . After several senior officials quit
in disgust, Morales announced suspension of the highway segment
that runs through the peoples’ homeland, pending a national
debate.  The highway wouldn’t run through just any part of  Bolivia .
It would bisect the  Isiboro Secure National Park and Indigenous
Territory , set aside for its 12,000 native residents who live
off the forest as fishers, hunters, gatherers and farmers.
According to Bolivia’s 2009  constitution , the government cannot
take measures affecting these people without consulting them,
through their institutions, in advance.  That didn’t happen with the new highway. Instead, Morales’s
government ignored the residents -- who are not members of his
own Indian group, the Aymara -- and made deals with the
Brazilian firm Construtora OAS Ltd. to build the road and with
BNDES, the Brazilian  Development Bank , to finance most of the
$415 million cost.  A north-south road through Bolivia is certainly in  Brazil ’s
interests: Combined with an extension through  Peru , it would
provide Brazil’s exporters quick access to the Pacific, and thus
 Asia ’s markets. It would eventually be a boon as well to
Bolivia, which has immense deposits of lithium and other
commodities. And it would help knit Bolivia together, as
government officials have argued.  But would the road benefit the people to whom the land
legally belongs? The government argues that the road would help
them transport their goods and access medical care more quickly.
However, the groups are unlikely to use a transnational highway
for that. Largely reliant on waterways to get around, the
communities arguably would be better served by improved docks
and more medical clinics. And, inevitably, the laying of road
through the Amazon brings additional human activity, which leads
to deforestation.  Morales has floated the idea of deciding the road’s future
by a referendum in the two provinces in which the national park
falls. It’s a bad idea, because the votes of the small native
population within the reserve would be overwhelmed by those of
residents outside it.  Morales would be wise to do now what he should have done to
start with: begin a serious consultation with the native
communities including a transparent assessment of the pros and
cons of the highway and an exploration of alternative routes
bypassing the park.  The episode, meanwhile, offers larger lessons for Morales
and other regional leaders. They should take note that his
initial attempt to delegitimize the protestors by calling them
American stooges was laughed off in Bolivia and elsewhere in the
region. This shows the declining power of empty anti-U.S.
populism.  Hugo Chavez , are you paying heed?  In another healthy sign, Brazil has seen its hegemonistic
tendencies challenged. A robust Brazilian economy is a good
thing for the world, but not if Brazil tramples its neighbors in
the pursuit of growth. Brazilian officials may want to remember
the road rebellion as they make final decisions about
controversial  dams  that could damage the environment and
displace communities in Bolivia and Peru.  The other lesson here is that the Amazon forests will
remain imperiled as long as despoiling them provides the biggest
payoff. The loss will be not just to the indigenous people but
also to us all, because the Amazon slows global warming by
absorbing as much as 2 billion tons of carbon dioxide each year.  This demonstrates the value, ultimately, of creating a
global carbon exchange. With such a system, polluters would pay
to release carbon into the atmosphere and the Amazonian people
and governments would collect revenue to preserve their
ecosystems. Until that becomes a reality, however, it’s largely
up to tropical nations to maintain their rainforests -- and the
future of Bolivia’s Amazon highway will give a good indication
of how effective they will be.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 