-- 
Boston Scientific Profit Declines on Falling Device Demand

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-10-20T20:08:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/boston-scientific-s-profit-falls-on-falling-heart-device-demand.html
Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) , the second-
biggest heart-device maker by revenue, said third-quarter profit
declined 25 percent as demand fell for its defibrillators and
pacemakers used to regulate the heart.  Net income dropped to $142 million, or 9 cents a share,
from $190 million, or 13 cents, a year earlier, the Natick,
Massachusetts-based company said today in a statement. Earnings
excluding one-time items were 15 cents a share, beating by 6
cents the average estimate of 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Boston Scientific has been stymied by slowing demand and
falling prices for its main products to treat abnormal heart
rhythms and open clogged arteries. Hank Kucheman assumed the
role of interim chief executive officer today, a position he
will hold until  Michael Mahoney , former chairman of Johnson &
Johnson’s medical device group, takes the helm next year.  “Boston’s ICD franchise continues to underperform in a
struggling market,” said  Michael Weinstein , an analyst at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , in a note to investors today. “Unlike the
past couple of quarters, Boston’s non-cardiac rhythm management
businesses could not offset the ICD shortfall.”  Boston Scientific fell 4.4 percent to $5.39 at 4:01 p.m.
New York time. Mahoney will serve as president of the company
until he fulfills post-employment obligations to  New Brunswick ,
New Jersey-based J&J, Boston Scientific has said.  Forecast  The medical device maker is on schedule to post its first
annual profit since 2005. The company forecast adjusted earnings
of 67 to 70 cents a share for the year, up from the 64 to 70
cents it projected earlier this year. Sales for 2011 will be
between $7.62 billion and $7.72 billion. Analysts estimated
sales of $7.78 billion for the year, according to Bloomberg
data.  Boston  Scientific reported third-quarter revenue of $1.87
billion, falling short of analysts’ estimates of $1.91 billion
and sales of $1.92 billion a year earlier. U.S. sales of
defibrillators used to shock a stopped heart back into a normal
rhythm were $225 million, down from $280 million a year earlier,
while worldwide sales declined 11 percent to $360 million.  The market weakened more than the company expected in July
and August, likely because of vacations and job changes, Chief
Financial Officer Jeff Capello said on a conference call. There
has been an increase in demand since then, he said.  “Particularly the end of September the volumes increased,
and as we look at our results for the first 10, 12 days in
October, they stepped up again, which gives us some confidence
that things are starting to come back a little,” Capello said.
“But it’s too early to tell.”  Sales of the company’s stents, used to prop open clogged
heart arteries, fell to $198 million in the U.S. from $210
million a year earlier. Worldwide sales rose to $402 million
from $396 million a year earlier.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  announced in June it will pull out of
the $4 billion global market for drug-coated stents by the end
of the year after losing ground to Boston Scientific, the market
leader, and Abbott Laboratories.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  