-- 
Bovespa Index Drops on Brazil Rate Outlook, Commodities Tumble

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-10-20T17:18:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/bovespa-declines-on-brazil-interest-rate-outlook-metals-tumble.html
The Bovespa index fell for the third
session in four as traders pared wagers for further interest-
rate cuts in  Brazil  after the central bank lowered the benchmark
rate by half a point, while commodities slipped on concern
Europe’s debt crisis will hurt demand.  Gafisa SA (GFSA3) , Brazil’s third-biggest homebuilder by revenue,
paced declines for companies that depend on domestic demand.
Miners  Vale SA (VALE3)  and MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA slumped amid
concern declines in the price for iron-ore may deepen as  China ’s
economy slows and the European crisis persists. Petroleo
Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s state-controlled oil company, followed
crude lower.  The Bovespa lost 2 percent to 53,883.32 at 3:02 p.m. in Sao
Paulo. Fifty-nine stocks fell on the gauge while seven rose. The
real weakened 1 percent to 1.7914 per dollar.  “Toward the end of the year the central bank may have to
get more cautious on inflation,” said  Alvaro Bandeira , director
of Rio de Janeiro-based brokerage Ativa Corretora. “ Europe  is
continuing to affect risk markets.”  Brazil’s central bank yesterday cut borrowing costs by half
a point for a second straight meeting, as growth in  Latin
America ’s biggest economy slows amid the European crisis. Policy
makers lowered the benchmark Selic rate to 11.5 percent, as
forecast by 61 of 68 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Five
analysts forecast a 0.75-point reduction, and two expected a
full-point cut.  A report today showed that Brazilian inflation slowed in
mid-October for the first time in 14 months. The rate remains
above the upper limit of the central bank’s target of 4.5
percent plus or minus two percentage points.  Brazil Inflation  Consumer prices, as measured by the IPCA-15 index, rose
7.12 percent in mid-October from a year earlier, the national
statistics agency said today, down from 7.33 percent the
previous month. Prices rose 0.42 percent in the month through
mid-October, less than the 0.45 percent median estimate of 45
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Traders reacted by driving up yields on interest-rate
futures. The yield on the contracts due in January 2013 rose
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 10.49 percent.  Gafisa declined 4.2 percent to 5.89 reais as the
 BM&FBovespa Real Estate (IMOBBV)  Index lost 2.3 percent.  Global stocks and commodities slumped as European leaders
disagreed on plans to enhance the region’s bailout fund. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  canceled a speech to parliament
tomorrow because of a deadlock over proposals to enhance the
European bailout fund, according to lawmakers. Draft documents
detailing plans to boost the facility prompted criticism from
some German lawmakers who opposed bailout aid. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials lost 1 percent.  Iron-Ore Prices  Iron ore’s biggest decline in 15 months may worsen as the
economy slows in China, the largest importer, the Europe crisis
lingers and BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group increase
production, said analysts at Macquarie Group Ltd. and Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, slipped 1.9
percent to 36.96 reais. MMX, controlled by billionaire  Eike
Batista , fell 3.1 percent to 6.64 reais. Petrobras declined 2.8
percent to 18.70 reais.  The Bovespa entered a  bear market  in July after plunging 20
percent from its 2010 bull-market peak. The measure since
extended that drop to 25 percent through yesterday and trades at
9.7 times analysts’ earnings estimates, weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That compares to a ratio of 10 for MSCI Inc.’s
gauge of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Traders moved 5.8 billion reais ($3.2 billion) in stocks in
 Sao Paulo  yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares to a daily average this year of 6.58 billion reais
through Oct. 13, according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  