-- 
Brainard: EFSF Needs to Be Leveraged to Provide Firewall

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-10-20T20:28:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/brainard-says-efsf-needs-to-be-leveraged-to-provide-firewall.html
Europe  needs to “leverage up” the
European Financial Stability Facility to provide a sufficient
firewall against a spread of its debt crisis, the U.S. Treasury
Department’s top international official said today.  “EFSF will need to be leveraged up,”  Lael Brainard , the
Treasury’s undersecretary for international affairs, said to a
Senate subcommittee. “There are a variety of ways of doing
that. It’s achievable. These goals are achievable with the
capital that they have but that of course is one of the key
issues that will be part of their comprehensive plan.”  She said increasing the firepower of the facility is
“critically important” and would provide adequate funding to
Italy and  Spain , backstop European banks and continue funding
program countries. In her testimony before the Senate Banking
Committee’s security, international trade and finance
subcommittee, she called Europe’s financial crisis “the most
serious risk today to the global recovery.”  “In order for Europe’s financial stability to return what
they categorically need to do is take the risk of cascading
defaults and bank runs off the table,” Brainard said. “They
need a firewall of sufficient force and size to overwhelm the
markets.”  Debt Crisis  European governments may unleash as much as 940 billion
euros ($1.3 trillion) to fight the debt crisis by combining the
temporary and planned permanent rescue funds, two people
familiar with the discussions said.  The 440 billion-euro European Financial Stability Facility
has already spent or committed about 160 billion euros,
including loans to Greece that will run for up to 30 years.  Brainard said President  Barack Obama  has been engaged on
the issue and on the phone with European Union leaders. Brainard
said the plan on the table is the “right set of issues” and
they have the capacity to solve the crisis. European leaders are
focused on building a substantial firewall, a bank
recapitalization plan, ensuring Greece is sustainable, and a
longer term set of governance reforms, she said.  Her comments come after the Group of 20 nations’ finance
ministers meeting on Oct. 14-15 and before the G-20 leaders
meeting in Cannes in November. The European Union announced
today that an Oct. 23 summit will now be followed by another
three days later.  Subcommittee chairman Mark Warner, a Democrat of Virginia,
said dragging out a resolution is not in the interests of Europe
or the U.S.  “A further shock to the system coming about from a non
structured default by  Greece  or any other country or even
contagion spreading across Europe that can freeze financial
markets will have a dramatic effect on our economy, an effect
that if not appropriately monitored and dealt with, could even
rival the challenges of 2008,” Warner said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  