-- 
Brainard Says European Debt Poses Most Serious Risk to Recovery

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-10-20T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/brainard-says-european-debt-poses-most-serious-risk-to-recovery.html
The European sovereign debt crisis
presents “the most serious risk” to the global economic
recovery while the U.S. financial system has moderate direct
exposure to the hardest-hit euro-area countries, the U.S.
Treasury Department’s top international official said.  “ Europe ’s financial crisis poses the most serious risk
today to the global recovery,”  Lael Brainard , the Treasury’s
undersecretary for international affairs, said in prepared
remarks to a Senate subcommittee. “While the direct exposure of
the  United States ’ financial system to the most vulnerable
countries in Europe is moderate, we have substantial trade and
investment ties to Europe.  “European financial stability matters greatly for consumer
and investor confidence,” Brainard told the Senate Banking
Committee’s security, international trade and finance
subcommittee.  Her comments come after the Group of 20 nations’ finance
ministers meeting on Oct. 14-15 and before the G-20 leaders
meeting in Cannes in November. She encouraged Europe to have a
substantial financial firewall, sufficient liquidity and capital
cushions for banks, a sustainable program in  Greece , and
governance changes.  The European Union announced today that an Oct. 23 summit
will now be followed by another three days later. European
governments may unleash as much as 940 billion euros ($1.3
trillion) to fight the debt crisis by combining the temporary
and planned permanent rescue funds, two people familiar with the
discussions said.  The 440 billion-euro European Financial Stability Facility
has already spent or committed about 160 billion euros,
including loans to Greece which will run for up to 30 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  