-- 
Brazil Rate Futures Rise After Central Bank Keeps Pace of Cuts

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-10-20T21:54:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/brazil-rate-futures-rise-after-central-bank-keeps-pace-of-cuts.html
Yields on most Brazilian interest-
rate futures contracts rose after the central bank quelled
speculation it would accelerate the pace of cuts.  Yields on the futures contract due in January 2013 rose six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 10.5 percent. The
real fell 0.4 percent to 1.7810 per dollar, from 1.7740
yesterday.  Brazil ’s central bank, led by President Alexandre Tombini,
voted unanimously yesterday to reduce the benchmark Selic rate
to 11.5 percent from 12 percent as economic growth slows. Policy
makers said in a statement that a “moderate adjustment” in the
rate “is consistent” with the goal of bringing inflation to
target by 2012. In the quarterly inflation report last month,
policy makers used the phrase “moderate adjustments,” a
plural, when outlining its strategy.  The statement didn’t include “any message signaling an
acceleration of rate cuts,” Carlos Thadeu de Freitas Gomes Filho, chief economist at Franklin Templeton Investments in Sao
Paulo, said in a telephone interview. “It was a hawkish
message.”  The decision was correctly forecast by 61 of 68 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Five analysts forecast a 0.75-point
reduction, and two expected a full-point cut.  Economists expected two more rate cuts of 50 basis points
to 10.5 percent by the end of 2012, according to a central bank
survey released Oct. 17.  Inflation  Brazil’s inflation rate fell for the first time in 14
months in mid-October, the national statistics agency said
today.  Consumer prices, as measured by the IPCA-15 index, rose
7.12 percent in mid-October from a year earlier, after
increasing 7.33 percent the 12 months through mid-September, the
fastest pace in six years. Brazil targets inflation of 4.5
percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  “The moderation of inflation at the margin is welcoming
news,”  Alberto Ramos , a senior  Latin America  economist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  New York , wrote in a research note
to clients. “However, driving inflation back to the 4.5 percent
inflation target midpoint may be a slow process given inertia
and still visible inflationary pressures.”  Economists at Banco Itau BBA SA, Latin America’s largest
bank, maintained their call that policy makers will lower the
benchmark  interest rate  to 9 percent next year as economic
growth slows further.  “Upcoming economic activity data will reinforce the
scenario of more intense deceleration in growth, which could
drive the central bank to speed up the pace of adjustments in
the benchmark rate,” economists including Mauricio Oreng wrote
in a research note today.  The economic activity index, a proxy for gross domestic
product, shrank 0.53 percent in August, its biggest decline
since the global financial crisis of 2008, the central bank
reported on Oct. 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Josue Leonel} in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
{Gabrielle Coppola} in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  