-- 
Brazil Supreme Court Suspends Higher Tax on Imported Cars

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-10-20T19:46:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/brazil-supreme-court-suspends-higher-tax-on-imported-cars-1-.html
Brazil ’s Supreme Court suspended
until mid-December a higher tax on imported cars imposed in
September to protect local manufacturers from cheap import from
 China ,  Korea  and elsewhere.  The court ruled today that the tax increase was illegal
because the government failed to give 90 days notice as required
by law,  Supreme Court  President Cezar Peluso said. The
injunction allows the government to start charging the tax 90
days after the levy’s publication date of Sept. 16. The  Finance
Ministry  declined to comment in an e-mailed statement.  President Dilma Rousseff’s administration, concerned that a
surge in imports from China and elsewhere will cause job losses,
last month raised the so-called industrial products tax by 30
percentage points on all cars with a high proportion of foreign-
made parts. Brazil, the fifth-biggest car market, is important
for China’s automakers as they start a world expansion. Chery
Automobile Co. Ltd. and others are trying to follow Korean
makers such as  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  that have
become global players.  Before the tax increase in September, a Chinese  Chery QQ 
with air-conditioning, power steering, air bags, CD player and
electric windows cost 23,990 reais ($13,440) in Brazil,
including import tariffs. That was 300 to 2,100 reais cheaper
than the most stripped-down models -- without most of the
Chery’s features -- of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Gol G4,  General Motors
Co. (GM)  Chevrolet Celta or  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Ka in Brazil, according
to data on the companies’ websites.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 Mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  