-- 
Brazil Trails Swaziland in World Bank Competitiveness Study

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-10-20T21:01:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/brazil-trails-swaziland-in-world-bank-competitiveness-study-1-.html
Brazil  slipped six places in the
 World Bank ’s annual competitiveness study, as the world’s
seventh-largest economy fell behind countries including
Swaziland and  Nicaragua  for the ease of setting up a business.  Brazil slipped to 126th place among 183 economies ranked in
the World Bank’s Doing Business  survey  published yesterday. The
decline comes even as Brazil’s central bank expects record
foreign direct investment this year of $60 billion and the
country invests in roads, ports and stadiums ahead of its
hosting the 2014  World Cup  and 2016 Olympics.  In Brazil it takes 119 days to start a business, compared
with 14 days in  Colombia , which was among the 12 countries that
most improved its business climate last year, according to the
study. The Andean nation jumped five spots to 42nd in the world.
Chile rose two places to 39th, taking back from Peru, which fell
two spots to 41st, the title of  Latin America ’s most business-
friendly economy.  Foreign companies have long complained that Brazil’s
excessive red tape, what’s known as the “Brazil Cost,”
discourages business. The country’s investment rate, which
stands at 17.8 percent of gross domestic product, is the lowest
among major Latin American economies. It’s also less than a 40
percent investment rate in  China , which was ranked 91st in the
study.  Overall, 17 of 32 countries in Latin America and the
Caribbean changed regulations in the past year making it easier
to conduct business, the report said.  Nicaragua Jumps  In addition to Colombia, countries in the region that made
at least three improvements to business regulations were Chile,
Mexico and  Peru .  Nicaragua, where former Sandinista guerrilla Daniel Ortega
is seeking re-election as president next month, also made three
improvements that allowed the Central American nation to surpass
Brazil in the overall ranking, going from 122nd to 118th.  The most common regulatory improvements in the region
included making it easier to start a business, boosting access
to credit and facilitating tax payment, according to the report.  While Brazil ranked below most of its Latin American peers
overall, the study cited a 2005 bankruptcy law that helped
increase credit levels 39 percent and reduce the cost of debt 22
percent. Enforcing contracts can take up to 731 days in Brazil,
while importing goods and merchandise requires 17 days, the
study found.  Though  Argentina  made it more difficult to transfer
property, the nation rose one place to 113th. Venezuela fell two
spots to 177th, the lowest in Latin America.  The report focuses on regulations and institutions that
impact small and medium businesses, Sylvia Solf, the study’s
lead author, said in a telephone interview yesterday. Solf said
the World Bank has seen a trend in the region to create a
business environment that will encourage companies that operate
illegally to work within the law and pay taxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  