-- 
Bryson Confirmed by U.S. Senate as Obama Commerce Secretary

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-20T23:56:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/bryson-confirmed-by-u-s-senate-as-obama-commerce-secretary-1-.html
John Bryson , the former chief
executive officer of  Edison International (EIX) , was confirmed by the
 U.S. Senate  to be Commerce secretary more than four months after
President Barack Obama nominated him for the post.  Bryson, 68, replaces Gary Locke, who was sworn in as U.S.
ambassador to China in August. Bryson will take over a
department that plays a leading role in Obama’s drive to double
annual U.S. exports to $3.14 trillion by the end of 2014 from
$1.57 trillion in 2009. The vote today was 74-26.  “I expect he will be a powerful voice inside the
administration and a partner with the business community to grow
our economy and open international markets for American
manufacturers,” Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California
Democrat, said today on the chamber floor.  Republicans delayed Bryson’s nomination until Obama sent
lawmakers legislation for free-trade agreements with Panama,
Colombia and South Korea. Bills for those accords cleared
Congress last week and Obama plans to sign them tomorrow.  Obama said in a statement after the vote that Bryson “will
be a key member of my economic team, working with the business
community to promote job creation, foster growth and
help open up new markets around the world for American-made
goods.”  Bryson led Edison International, the owner of California’s
largest utility, until 2008. His nomination was supported by the
Business Roundtable, which represents CEOs of companies such as
 Boeing Co. (BA) , and opposed by Republicans including Senator  John Barrasso  of Wyoming, who criticized his support in the past for
a measure to cap carbon emissions.  “This nominee is the wrong person at the worst time,”
Barrasso said today on the Senate floor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  