-- 
Budget Official Says Obama Willing to Fight Again on Spending

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-10-20T19:01:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/budget-official-says-obama-willing-to-fight-again-on-spending.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration said today that he won’t back down from another
spending fight with congressional Republicans and is willing to
veto legislation needed to fund the federal government for the
rest of its fiscal year.  Obama will veto any measure that “undermines critical
domestic priorities or national security,” contains funding on
pet projects known as “earmarks” or fails to make “tough
choices to cut where needed while maintaining what we need to
spur long-term  job creation ,” White House Budget Director  Jacob Lew  said in a letter to lawmakers.  The administration will “strongly” oppose any legislative
provisions aimed at its health-care or financial industry
overhauls, as well as environmental, consumer and safety
regulations, Lew said.  He also warned against including provisions that “abandon
settled approaches to divisive social issues,” without offering
specifics.  Congress hasn’t approved any of the 12 annual spending
bills needed to fund federal agencies for the fiscal year that
began Oct. 1. A stopgap measure is funding the government until
Nov. 18.  In late September, Republicans who control the House
announced plans to cut funding for Pell college tuition grants,
 National Public Radio  and other Democratic priorities, a move
that would spur contentious negotiations on the federal budget.  Obama and the Republicans barely avoided a government
shutdown in April over final funding for the 2011 fiscal year,
spent much of the summer haggling over raising the federal debt
limit before reaching a last-minute agreement and argued over
the stopgap funding bill now in effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
1919 or  bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  