-- 
Bulgarian Ruling-Party Presidential Candidate Tops Election Poll

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-10-20T10:26:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/bulgarian-ruling-party-presidential-candidate-tops-election-poll.html
Rosen Plevneliev, the presidential
candidate of  Bulgaria ’s ruling party, is leading the race for
Oct. 23 elections that will test support for Prime Minister’s
Boiko Borissov’s government, an opinion poll showed.  Plevneliev, 47, a computer engineer, businessman and former
minister in Borissov’s Cabinet, has the support of 33 percent of
Bulgarians and would win 41 percent of the vote, according to a
poll published today by Sofia-based MBMD agency. If no candidate
wins at least half the ballots, the top two vote-getters will
face each other in an Oct. 30 runoff.  Ivailo Kalfin, 47, a member of the European Parliament and
a former foreign minister, was second with 20 percent, according
to MBMD. Meglena Kuneva, 54, a former European Union
commissioner, was third with 13 percent. Incumbent Georgi Parvanov, elected to a second five-year term in 2007, is
prevented by the constitution from seeking a third term.  The election will test the popularity of Borissov’s Gerb
party as the EU’s poorest member struggles to recover from its
deepest recession in a decade before 2013 parliamentary
elections. It comes as concern about vote-buying was expressed
on Oct. 17 by the Vienna-based  Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe , which is set to monitor the election
featuring 18 candidates.  Vote prices range between $20 and $100 across the country,
 Dnevnik  newspaper reported today, citing the Bulgarian branch of
 Transparency International .  The Oct. 16-17 survey of 1,050 people had a margin of error
of 2 percent, MBMD said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  