-- 
Bundesbank’s Dombret Says EFSF Could Take Lower Credit Rating

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-10-20T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/bundesbank-s-dombret-says-efsf-could-take-lower-credit-rating.html
Bundesbank  board member Andreas Dombret said assigning a lower-than-AAA  credit rating  to
Europe’s bailout fund, the EFSF, would boost its firepower and
increase the incentives for sound fiscal policy.  “Forgoing the AAA rating would clear the way for an
increase in the EFSF’s lending capacity,” Dombret said in a
speech in Berlin today. “Contrary to leverage, giving up on the
best rating possible would mean the risks for the taxpayer would
be lower.”  The idea of a lower rating for the European Financial
Stability Facility was floated by Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann in a parliamentary hearing on Sept. 19. It comes as a
split between France and  Germany  over how to increase the fund’s
effectiveness threatens to scotch plans to end  Europe ’s debt
crisis.  The EFSF’s lending capacity is currently limited to 440
billion euros ($608 billion) even though guarantees from euro-
area governments amount to 726 billion euros. That’s because in
order to achieve a AAA rating, an overguarantee of 165 percent
is applied.  Dombret said a lower rating would relax those limits and
free up more cash for the fund to lend. This would also result
in a higher  interest rate  on the loans, which would increase the
incentives for countries receiving aid to lower their debt and
return to funding from financial markets as soon as possible, he
said.  Franco-German Divide  French Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  stepped up calls
yesterday for the EFSF to be turned into a bank so that it can
leverage itself via the  European Central Bank . Germany and the
ECB have rejected using the central bank’s balance sheet, saying
it would be tantamount to monetizing state debt. Germany has
instead endorsed enabling the EFSF to insure a portion of cash-
strapped nations’ bond sales.  “Leveraging via a bank license must absolutely be
rejected,” Dombret told lawmakers from German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democrats in the speech.  The Bundesbank board member added that  Greece , which awaits
a green light over the payout of a sixth tranche of European
Union and International Monetary Fund aid, must fulfill the
conditions of its adjustment program.  “Consequently, a Greek insolvency cannot inherently be
ruled out,” Dombret said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  