-- 
Canada’s Dollar Rebounds on Renewed Optimism About a European Debt Accord

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-10-20T21:18:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/canada-s-dollar-rebounds-on-renewed-optimism-about-a-european-debt-accord.html
Canada ’s dollar strengthened against
its U.S. counterpart on optimism that European leaders will be
able to solve the region’s debt crisis next week.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  agreed to ask euro-region leaders to assess a
“comprehensive and ambitious” package of measures to solve the
region’s debt crisis at a leaders’ summit on Oct. 23 in order to
agree on the measures at a second meeting by Oct. 26 at the
latest. Crude oil, the nation’s largest export, pared declines
amid improved sentiment for risker assets.  “ Europe  is the big play at the moment and everyone is
focusing on that,” said Darcy Browne, managing director of
capital markets trading at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in
Toronto. “Everything is comment-driven these days. These aren’t
fundamental reasons. I don’t think anyone is strapping on any
new risk here.”  Canada’s currency rose 0.5 percent to C$1.0154 per  U.S.
dollar  by 5 p.m. in Toronto, after falling as much as 0.4
percent. One Canadian dollar buys 98.48 U.S. cents.  European governments may earmark as much as 940 billion
euros ($1.3 trillion) to fight the debt crisis by combining the
temporary and planned permanent rescue funds, two people
familiar with the discussions told Bloomberg News today.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, declined earlier
after Merkel canceled a planned speech to parliament in Berlin
tomorrow because of a deadlock about proposals to leverage the
European Financial Stability Facility to give it more firepower.  Currency Flows  “We’ve been stuck in a range this week,” said Francois Belanger, director of foreign-exchange sales at Bank of
Montreal’s BMO  Capital Markets  unit in Montreal. “Flows into
the loonie have slowed down considerably. There’s still pretty
good support for the U.S. dollar.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.5 percent, while
Canada’s benchmark Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index
declined 0.2 percent. Futures on crude oil fell 0.9 percent to
$85.30 a barrel in New York trading after losing as much as 2.3
percent.  The yield on 10-year Government of Canada bonds fell two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.31 percent. The
price of the 3.25 percent securities maturing in June 2021 rose
18 cents to C$108.05.  Wholesale sales rose 0.2 percent in August to C$48.4
billion ($47.5 billion), Ottawa-based  Statistics Canada  said.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast a 0.5 percent
increase, the median of 15 estimates.  The gain reflected higher prices for imported goods.
Excluding the impact of prices, wholesalers recorded their
biggest decline since May 2010.  Economic data reports are “overwhelmed by the momentum and
influence that’s created by these headline bombs that keep
hitting the market on a daily basis,” said  Jack Spitz , managing
director of foreign exchange at National Bank’s Spitz. “There’s
tremendous sensitivity because it’s unprecedented event risk.”  The loonie has weakened 1.9 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a
gauge of 10 developed-nation currencies. The greenback has lost
1 percent of its value.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  