-- 
Canada August Wholesale Sales Rise 0.2% on Higher Prices

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-10-20T15:04:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/canada-august-wholesale-sales-rise-0-2-on-higher-import-prices.html
Canadian wholesale sales rose for a
fourth month in August, on higher prices for imported goods.
Excluding the impact of prices, wholesalers recorded their
biggest decline since May 2010.  Wholesale sales rose 0.2 percent in August to C$48.4
billion ($47.5 billion), Ottawa-based  Statistics Canada  said
today. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast a 0.5
percent increase, the median of 15 estimates.  Data in August have shown a mixed picture for the economy
during the month, as consumers and businesses sought to cope
with market turmoil stemming from a deepening of Europe’s debt
crisis and  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of  U.S. debt . That
suggests the economy slowed from the 0.3 percent pace of growth
recorded in July. Statistics Canada will report August GDP data
on Oct. 31.  The wholesale data was “a little bit on the soft side,”
said  Michael Gregory , senior economist at Bank of Montreal’s BMO
Capital Markets unit. “It does look like it’s going to be more
of 0.1 or 0.2 percent maximum type of month” for growth in
August.  The Canadian dollar pared gains following the report. The
currency was 0.1 percent stronger at C$1.0195 per  U.S. dollar  at
10:50 a.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0205 late yesterday, after
earlier rising as much as 0.7 percent. One Canadian dollar buys
98.09 U.S. cents.  August Data  Data released so far for the month of August show a drop in
building permits, lower employment and a slowdown in housing
starts. Offsetting that were strong gains in manufacturing sales
and higher exports. Statistics Canada will release August retail
sales data on Oct. 25 in the final major report ahead of the
month’s GDP figures.  The central bank has held its key rate at 1 percent since
September 2010, and Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem said in
a Sept. 27 speech policy makers would be “prudent” with
interest-rate increases during a slow economic rebound
threatened by weak U.S. demand and  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Investors have been paring bets the central bank’s next
move will be a cut. The three-month overnight index swap rate,
which is based on what investors expect the central bank’s rate
will average during that period, rose to as high as 0.972
percent this week, from an October low of 0.908 percent recorded
on Oct. 4. That’s still below the central bank’s 1 percent
target for overnight loans between banks.  Recession Warnings  In recent weeks, Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  and Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty  have both raised the possibility that the
global economy risks falling into recession if European leaders
fail to solve their debt crisis. Flaherty, in a speech this week
in Dublin, said time is running out for Europe before the crisis
spreads.  The wholesale sales gain was led by a 1.7 percent increase
in motor vehicles and a 1.3 percent rise in pharmaceuticals, the
statistics agency said. Sales by wholesalers of food and
beverages rose 0.5 percent.  Wholesale sales excluding the impact of price changes fell
0.9 percent in August. The statistics agency said the
discrepancy between nominal and volume wholesale sales was
partly attributable to a depreciation of the Canadian dollar
during the month, which raised prices for imported goods.  Wholesale inventories increased 0.9 percent to C$57.2
billion, and the inventory-to-sales ratio rose to 1.18 in August
from 1.17 in July.  Statistics Canada also said it revised its estimate of
July’s wholesale sales gain to 0.9 percent from an initial
estimate of 0.8 percent.  In a separate report, the agency also said that the number
of Canadians receiving jobless benefits increased 6.6 percent to
568,560 on a seasonally adjusted basis in August.  From the year-ago month, the total number of recipients
fell 15.8 percent, the Ottawa-based agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  