-- 
McClellan Sees Stocks Rising Until February: Technical Analysis

-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 
2011-10-20T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/mcclellan-sees-stocks-rising-until-february-technical-analysis.html
Investors should start buying stocks
because indicators of momentum and breadth suggest the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index’s rally from an October low will last, said
Tom McClellan, editor of the McClellan Market Report.  The benchmark for U.S. equities formed an outside day
reversal on Oct. 18, when its intraday high and low exceeded
those of the previous day. That pattern, along with charts
including the McClellan advance-decline summation index, showed
the rally that lifted the  S&P 500  as much as 15 percent from its
2011 intraday low will extend until February, McClellan said in
a telephone interview yesterday.  “The way that the market had an outside day reversal
showing strength was very impressive,” said McClellan, who
started publishing the newsletter in 1995 with his father
Sherman, creator of the McClellan Oscillator. “You can get into
a condition where there is just so much money trying to charge
through the door to get into the market that you don’t ever get
a pullback you’d like to get, to get on board. And I saw a lot
of signs that we’re in that condition.”  The S&P 500 jumped 11 percent from Oct. 4 through Oct. 14,
the biggest gain over nine days since March 2009, buoyed by
optimism over corporate earnings and steps by European leaders
to support banks. The benchmark slipped 1.3 percent yesterday on
concern about the strength of the economy, an impasse over the
European bailout, and disappointing results from Apple Inc.  McClellan, who is based in Lakewood,  Washington , said in an
Aug. 18 interview that investors should avoid stocks until this
month. The S&P 500 has since been stuck in a 158-point trading
range, falling to this year’s intraday low of 1,074.77 on Oct.
4.  ‘Thrust’ Signal  The rally since then has sent a “Zweig breadth thrust”
signal, McClellan said. Named for Martin Zweig, who first
identified it, the indicator tracks the number of rising
securities divided by the total of advances and declines on the
New York Stock Exchange.  The thrust signal is sent when the 10-day moving average of
the data rises from below 0.40 to above 0.615 within 10 trading
days, McClellan said. From Oct. 3 to Oct. 14, the reading jumped
from 0.39 to 0.619, he said.  The McClellan advance-decline summation reading on NYSE-
traded securities climbed above 200 on Oct. 12 for the first
time since the end of August. It dipped below the threshold on
two out of the following four days and surpassed it on the other
two days, Bloomberg data show.  “When you see repeated high values, it’s saying that there
is sustained pressure of money trying to find its way into the
market,” McClellan said. “That tends to be a condition that
doesn’t go away very quickly and tends to last for a long
time,” he said. “That’s something you do in an uptrend, as
opposed to a bear-market snapback rally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  