-- 
Freeport Exhausted Copper Stocks on Peru Strike, Union Says

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-10-20T18:43:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/cerro-verde-exhausted-copper-ore-stockpile-on-strike-union-says.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc. (FCX) ’s Peruvian copper mine exhausted its stockpiled ore after a
strike entered its 22nd day, according to a union official.  The company’s  Sociedad Minera Cerro Verde SAA (CVERDEC1)  unit, where
workers have been on strike since Sept. 29, shut its
concentrator plant yesterday after contract workers damaged an
ore-crushing facility, union official William Camacho said.  “The plant will be shut for three days, and the mine has
run out of stock because there’s no blasting going on in the
pit,” Camacho said today in a telephone interview from
Arequipa, 750 kilometers (466 miles) southeast of Lima. “The
mine won’t be able to meet its production goals.”  Workers in  Peru ,  Chile , Bolivia and  Indonesia  have downed
tools at copper, gold and zinc mines this year to seek improved
conditions and a larger share of record profits after metal
prices surged. About 8,000 workers at Freeport’s Grasberg mine
in Indonesia have been on strike since Sept. 15.  The mine, Peru’s third-largest copper producer, is
operating at two-thirds of capacity after the company took on
600 non-union staff, spokesman  Eric Kinneberg  said today in e-
mailed comments. Freeport, the world’s largest publicly traded
copper producer, will take part in all wage negotiation
meetings, he said.  ‘Near-Term’ Resolution  The company expects the dispute can be resolved “in the
near term,” Freeport Chief Executive Officer Richard Adkerson
said yesterday on a conference call to discuss third quarter
earnings. The stoppage hasn’t “materially” affected copper and
molybdenum output, according to the company.  Cerro Verde workers and company officials were scheduled to
resume wage talks at 11 a.m.  New York  time today. The union
won’t accept either a company proposal to cut benefits if the
price of copper falls to $2.70 per pound or a deadline set for
tomorrow for a 1,200 soles ($433) bonus if workers sign a labor
accord, Camacho said.  Freeport says its Grasberg mine in Indonesia is operating
at about two-thirds of capacity. Grasberg, which has the world’s
largest recoverable reserves of copper, lost 70 million pounds
of sales in the third quarter because of a strike, Freeport
said.  Freeport rose 0.6 percent to $34.5888 as of 2:02 p.m. in
New York. Cerro Verde dropped 2.8 percent to $34.60 in Lima.  Copper for December delivery fell 20 cents, or 6.1 percent,
to $3.0575 a pound at 1 p.m. on the Comex. On the London Metal
Exchange, copper dropped $475, or 6.6 percent, to $6,735 a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in  Lima  at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  