-- 
McGraw-Hill Third-Quarter Profit Declines by 3.8% as S&P Revenue Shrinks

-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 
2011-10-20T15:09:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/mcgraw-hill-third-quarter-profit-falls-as-standard-poor-s-revenue-drops.html
McGraw-Hill Cos., the finance and
publishing company that’s splitting in two, said third-quarter
profit fell 3.8 percent as demand for  Standard & Poor’s  credit
ratings dropped.  Net income declined to $365.6 million, or $1.21 a share,
from $379.9 million, or $1.23, a year earlier, the New York
company said today in a statement. That trailed the $1.23
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
company lowered the top end of its full-year profit forecast.  Sales from the textbook division dropped for a fourth
quarter, while credit-ratings revenue fell amid a decline in
corporate bond issuance. McGraw-Hill said Sept. 12 it will break
into two companies, one focused on financial information and the
other on educational publishing.  “It’s unusual that their two biggest engines are weak at
the same time,” Douglas Arthur, an analyst at Evercore Partners
Inc. in  New York , said in an interview. “In the past, you had
better balance, in the sense that when the ratings market slows
down, you typically get a big boost in education.”  McGraw-Hill fell $1.20, of 2.8 percent, to $41.87 at 11:08
a.m. in New York trading. The shares had climbed 18 percent this
year through yesterday.  Arthur rates the shares “overweight” and doesn’t own any.
McGraw-Hill hired Evercore this year as a financial adviser.  Third-quarter sales declined 2.5 percent to $1.91 billion,
McGraw-Hill said. Analysts on average projected $2.04 billion.  ‘Remain Cautious’  Full-year earnings per share from continuing operations
will rise to $2.81 to $2.86, from $2.68 in 2010, the company
predicted. In July, McGraw-Hill forecast $2.79 to $2.89.  S&P’s revenue decline is a result of a falloff in bond
offerings, Chief Executive Officer Harold “Terry” McGraw III
said on a conference call with analysts and investors.  “The contraction obviously is disappointing, but it’s very,
very reflective of current economic conditions,” he said.  McGraw-Hill began a strategic review last year of the
company’s businesses. On Aug. 22, Jana Partners LLC, a  New York- 
based hedge fund and investor in McGraw-Hill, proposed a plan to
break up the company to boost  shareholder value . The stock had
declined about 28 percent since March of 2006 through yesterday.  The split into McGraw-Hill Markets and McGraw-Hill
Education is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2012,
although the company would like to finalize it sooner, McGraw
said today.  Stock Repurchases  The company, which last month announced plans to buy back
shares, said it repurchased $355 million in stock in the third
quarter and plans to spend $1 billion on shares this year. It
also plans to cut administrative expenses by at least $100
million by the end of 2012, McGraw said.  Earlier this month, McGraw-Hill agreed to sell nine
television stations to E.W. Scripps Co. for $212 million.  Revenue at Standard & Poor’s fell 1.8 percent to $409.9
million. The unit makes money by charging companies, cities and
banks when they issue bonds, meaning its revenue falls when debt
issuance declines, according to  Peter Appert , an analyst at
Piper Jaffray & Co. in  San Francisco .  Corporate-bond issuance around the world fell 40 percent to
$556.1 billion in the third quarter, down from $919.9 billion in
the second quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
With  Greece  teetering on the edge of default and investors
avoiding risky bonds, companies put off selling debt.  “Debt issuance fell off a cliff,” Appert said in a
telephone interview before the results were announced. “The debt
markets are not going to get healthy again until we have a
stabilization of the situation in  Europe .”  Education publishing sales fell 11 percent to $937.3
million. Textbook purchases in  Texas , one of the largest
markets, declined, McGraw-Hill said.  (The company held a conference call today to discuss
earnings. To access a replay of the Webcast, click on:
 http://investor.mcgraw-hill.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=96562&p=irol -
irhome  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  