-- 
Chavez Says He’s ‘Free of Illness’ Following Cuba Exams

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-10-20T20:43:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/chavez-returns-from-cuba-medical-exams-to-make-announcements.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
said medical exams in Cuba showed he is no longer ill, four
months after surgery to remove a cancerous tumor, and that he
plans to step up campaigning for next year’s election.  “The exams revealed that there is no sign of active
malignant cells in this body,” Chavez, dressed in olive green
military fatigues and black boots, said today upon arrival from
Cuba in Tachira state. “I’m free of illness.”  The 57-year-old former paratrooper left the airport
accompanied by his ministers and top military officers to pay
homage to a Christ figure at a religious sanctuary in the town
of La Grita. Since having the tumor removed, he has participated
in ceremonies with Amazonian shamans, Catholic priests and
followers of folkloric syncretic deities to help his recovery.  Chavez, who has ruled  South America ’s largest oil producer
since 1999, has said that he’ll seek a third consecutive term in
presidential elections next year, while declining to provide
details on what form of cancer he has.  Yields on the government’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds
maturing in 2027 rose 18 basis points to 14.36 percent today at
1 p.m. in Caracas, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
The price fell 0.85 cent on the dollar to 68.32 cents.  Spending Boom  Chavez allowed the government to sell a record $7.2 billion
of bonds this year as he looks to finance state-run agriculture,
housing and job creation programs that are pillars of his re-
election campaign. Finance Minister  Jorge Giordani  said today
that the government will boost spending 46 percent in the 2012
budget to 297.8 billion bolivars ($69.3 billion).  The self-professed socialist revolutionary will face a more
unified opposition in the Oct. 7, 2012, elections as his
adversaries prepare to select a single candidate at primaries in
February.  Chavez saw his popularity rise 10 percentage points to 58.9
percent in September after announcing he had cancer in late
June, according to Caracas-based polling firm  Datanalisis .  “It will be easier for a donkey to walk through the eye of
a needle than for the opposition to beat Chavez in the
elections,” the president said today. “As much as some sectors
of our society try to destabilize the country, they won’t be
able to do it.”  Chavez left the airport in a black Toyota sports utility
vehicle on his way to the sanctuary as he blew kisses to
followers along the road accompanied by his bodyguards.  ‘New Chavez’  During an hour-long Mass at one of  Venezuela ’s most
venerated churches in La Grita, Chavez prayed before a statue of
Christ as a choir sang in his honor. A crowd of hundreds of
supporters gathered in the square outside.  Addressing the crowd, Chavez said today marks a “new
stage” in his life.  “I wanted to come to La Grita, arriving from Cuba, to pay
back a promise to Holy Christ,” Chavez said. “Just four months
ago, I was in the operating rooms undergoing a seven-hour
operation to remove a cancer. It’s like a miracle that four
months later I’m standing here in front of you.”  He has had to cut down his public appearances and length of
speeches since being operated on June 20 to remove what he said
was a baseball-sized tumor from his pelvic region. He said that
after undergoing four stages of chemotherapy, his treatment plan
now will consist of rest, a good diet and medical checkups every
four months.  Chavez said he has cut down his coffee intake to three
cups a day from “four or five thermos flasks.”  “The new Chavez is here, but like Fidel told me, I
shouldn’t abuse the situation,” Chavez said today, referring to
former Cuban President  Fidel Castro . “I didn’t know how to
apply the brakes before in my life, which is one of the radical
changes that I’m going to implement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 