-- 
China’s Stocks Fall to 31-Month Low on Economic Slowdown, Europe

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-20T08:00:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/china-s-stocks-fall-as-economic-slowdown-spurs-cuts-in-industry-forecasts.html
China ’s stocks fell, driving the
benchmark index to the lowest since March 2009, on concern
slowing economic growth and divisions among European leader over
a rescue strategy threaten earnings outlooks.  Jiangxi Copper Co., the biggest producer of the metal, slid
to a 15-month low as copper futures tumbled 5.5 percent in
 Shanghai . China Southern Airlines Co. led losses for carriers
after China Business News said the aviation regulator reduced
its estimates for passenger volume growth. China Citic Bank
Corp. and China Vanke Co. paced declines for financial companies
after the banking regulator said risks stemming from private
lending must be “strictly controlled.”  “Investors are seeing a clearer picture of the economic
slowdown at home and globally, which may lead to market
fluctuations,” said Liu Jianwei, a  fund manager  at Bosera Asset
Management Co., which oversees more than $29 billion. The
central bank is unlikely to loosen its monetary policies as
inflation remains high, Liu said.  The Shanghai Composite Index lost 46.1 points, or 1.9
percent, to 2,331.37, a third day of declines and closing at the
lowest level since March 25, 2009. The CSI 300 Index slid 2.4
percent to 2,520.53. Global stocks fell as France and  Germany 
split on the role of the  European Central Bank  in leveraging a
rescue fund as banks lobbied against forced recapitalizations
and larger writedowns of Greek debt.  The Shanghai index has plunged 17 percent this year,
driving down estimated price earnings to a record low of 10.8
times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. China has raised
 interest rates  three times in 2011 and ordered lenders to set
aside a bigger portion of their deposits to curb inflation
that’s near a three-year high.  Bank Lending  Consumer prices in the world’s second-biggest economy
increased 6.1 percent in September from a year earlier, the
National Bureau of Statistics said last week. The government’s
full-year inflation target is 4 percent.  The Shanghai Composite has dropped 4.1 percent this week on
reports showing the economy is slowing. China’s economic
expansion cooled to 9.1 percent in the third quarter from 9.5
percent in the previous quarter. Foreign direct investment grew
in September at the slowest pace in three months, as companies
pared spending amid concerns the global recovery is faltering.  A gauge of material companies in the CSI 300 plunged 3.3
percent, the most among the 10 industry groups.  Jiangxi Copper slid 4.4 percent to 25.20 yuan, the lowest
close since July 15, 2010.  Yunnan Copper Industry Co. (000878)  dropped
2.4 percent to 17.18 yuan. Copper for January-delivery on the
Shanghai Futures Exchange tumbled 5.5 percent to 50,950 yuan a
metric ton.  Coal producers also slumped. China Shenhua Energy Co., the
listed unit of the biggest producer, sank 2 percent to 24.73
yuan. Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. slid 4.2 percent to 26 yuan.  Airlines Slump  China Southern, the biggest domestic carrier, dropped 4.2
percent to 6.11 yuan. China Eastern Airlines Corp., the second
largest, lost 4.7 percent to 4.47 yuan.  The nation’s aviation regulator cut its 2011 passenger
number growth estimate to 8 percent from 13 percent, China
Business News reported today, citing a report by the Civil
Aviation Administration of China.  International travel and cargo shipment demand is weak and
domestic growth has slowed, the newspaper said. CAAC forecast
this year’s cargo and mail volume may be unchanged from last
year, compared with a previous growth estimate of about 12
percent, according to the newspaper.  The Economic Observer reported yesterday an auto industry
group cut its forecast for vehicle sales growth to as much as 3
percent this year, from 5 percent.  Private Lending  China Citic Bank declined 2.1 percent to 4.25 yuan.  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the nation’s second-largest lender,
lost 1.7 percent to 4.56 yuan. China Vanke, the biggest
developer, dropped 1.1 percent to 7.02 yuan. Gemdale Corp. slid
3.1 percent to 4.41 yuan.  China’s central bank will start a second round of
investigation into the nation’s private lending and may
introduce a monitoring system in the future, the 21st Century
Business Herald reported today, citing an unidentified person
close to the People’s Bank of China.  Risks stemming from China’s shadow banking system and
private lending must be “strictly controlled,” and such loans
will be curbed, the head of the nation’s banking regulator said.  Loans to local government financing vehicles and the real-
estate industry, which also pose dangers for the banking system,
can be managed, said  Liu Mingkang , chairman of the China Banking
Regulatory Commission, according to a transcript of his speech
posted on the regulator’s website yesterday.  Banks’ overall bad debt ratio on real-estate lending is
lower than 2 percent and recent stress tests show that they can
withstand a 40 percent decline in property prices, Liu said
yesterday. Property lending accounted for 19.8 percent of total
outstanding loans at the end of August, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  