-- 
China Plans Subsidies to Tap Shale Gas

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-20T06:12:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/china-to-grant-subsidies-to-shale-gas-producers-official-says.html
China , estimated to hold more
natural gas trapped in shale than the U.S., will offer subsidies
and auction new exploration blocks this year to encourage
domestic companies to tap the resource.  “The government places high emphasis on developing shale
gas and has been actively studying supporting policies,” Zhang
Dawei, deputy head of the Strategic Research Center at the
Ministry of Land and Resources, said in  Shanghai  today. A
national shale gas plan will be announced soon, he said.  More than 10 shale gas blocks will be offered to Chinese
state and private companies in the second round of auctions,
Zhang said at a conference. While overseas companies will be
barred from the sale to be held this quarter, they can invest in
and supply technology to domestic operators, he said.  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  and China Petrochemical Corp. are seeking
technology through overseas acquisitions. PetroChina Co.’s
parent agreed in June to form a venture with Royal Dutch Shell
Plc to improve its drilling efficiency after taking 11 months to
complete China’s first shale well. China, yet to produce any
shale gas commercially, plans 6.5 billion cubic meters of annual
output by 2015 and 80 billion cubic meters by 2020, Zhang said.  The subsidy for shale gas will be higher than the 0.2 yuan
(3 cents) per cubic meter provided for coal-bed methane, because
gas is harder to extract from shale rock, the official said.  Chinese shale may hold 1,275 trillion cubic feet (36
trillion cubic meters of gas), or 12 times the country’s
conventional natural gas deposits, the U.S. Energy Information
Administration  said  in April. China’s “technically
recoverable” reserves are almost 50 percent more than the 862
trillion cubic feet held by the U.S., the EIA said.  Estimated Reserves  China estimated in 2010 that it had about 31 trillion cubic
meters exploitable shale gas reserves, and the figure will be
updated by the end of this year as the government has done
nationwide onshore appraisal, Zhang said today.  Shale gas production in China is expected to increase to
about 15 percent of domestic output by 2040, compared with 50
percent by 2030 in the U.S., Steven W. Lewis, a professor at the
Baker Institute at  Rice University , said at the conference. In
 Canada , shale may account for a third of overall gas production
by mid 2030s, he said.  China Petrochemical, known as Sinopec Group, agreed this
month to buy Daylight Energy Ltd. for about C$2.2 billion ($2.2
billion) to gain Canadian shale-gas reserves in the company’s
largest acquisition this year.  Overseas Acquisitions  Cnooc agreed in February to buy a 33.3 percent stake in
Chesapeake Energy Corp.’s Niobrara shale project in Colorado and
 Wyoming  for $570 million, after paying $1.08 billion last year
for one-third of a Chesapeake shale venture in  Texas .  In June, PetroChina walked away from a C$5.4 billion bid
for Encana Corp.’s Cutbank Ridge gas assets after failing to
agree on the price. The acquisition would have been its largest
overseas deal.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) , the listed arm of Sinopec
Group, and Henan Provincial Coal Seam Gas Development and
Utilization Co. won exploration rights in China’s first auction
of shale-gas blocks, the land ministry said in July.  Chevron Corp., BP Plc and Statoil ASA are among
international explorers that have entered talks to form joint
ventures in China to tap shale gas assets.  China aims to triple the use of natural gas to about 10
percent of energy demand by 2020 to rely less on more polluting
coal and oil.  --Winnie Zhu. Editors: Amit Prakash, Ryan Woo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 