-- 
China Mobile Net Misses Estimates as Competition Cuts Margin

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-20T10:16:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/china-mobile-third-quarter-profit-rises-3-7-.html
China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s
biggest phone carrier by users, reported third-quarter profit
that missed analysts’ estimates amid increased costs to compete
for subscribers who use smartphones to download games and music.  Net income climbed 3.7 percent from a year earlier to 30.7
billion yuan ($4.8 billion), according to figures derived from
nine-month earnings reported to the  Hong Kong  Stock Exchange
today. Profit was expected at 32.1 billion yuan, based on the
average of two estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  China Mobile faces “intense competition” from rival
carriers, Chairman  Wang Jianzhou  said in today’s earnings
release. The Beijing-based company is further challenged by
rising penetration rates for mobile phones in the world’s
largest mobile-phone market by subscribers that leaves an ever
smaller pool from which to draw new users, he said.  “I believe growth will be very difficult for China Mobile
to accelerate in the future,” Jim Tang, an analyst at Shenyin
Wanguo Securities Co. in  Shanghai , said in an interview after
the earnings announcement. “A slowdown in revenue and net
profit is more likely to happen.”  Quarterly sales rose 8.9 percent to 133.8 billion yuan,
according to figures derived from data the company released. The
company was projected to post sales of 133 billion yuan,
according to the average of six estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  China Mobile fell 1.25 percent to close at HK$75.25 in Hong
Kong trading today before the earnings announcement. The stock
has dropped 2.5 percent this year, while the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index  has dropped 22 percent.  Margin Decline  The company didn’t provide details on higher costs in the
third quarter to attract new users in the statement. In the
first nine months of the year, net profit margin fell to 24
percent, from 25 percent in the year-ago period.  “The other two carriers are ramping up their competition
so they are facing the strongest competition they have ever seen
for China Mobile,” Sandy Shen, an analyst at research firm
Gartner Inc., said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
today. “They are trying to compete with the other two carriers
to try and get as many subscribers as possible. At the same
time, that means you have to invest in subsidy programs.”  BlackBerry  To attract customers to the company’s third-generation
network and maintain its lead over China Unicom (Hong Kong)
Ltd., Wang has introduced smartphones costing less than 1,000
yuan, such as  ZTE Corp. (000063) ’s U232 and  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) ’s TD36T.  China Mobile also added  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s
BlackBerry Bold 9788 last month to win over higher spending
customers in its battle for 3G users with Unicom, the nation’s
only carrier offering  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone with a service
contract.  China Unicom has so far failed to use the iPhone to catch
up to China Mobile in 3G users. While China Mobile’s 3G network
is incompatible with the Apple handset, it has attracted 9.5
million iPhone users to its second-generation network, most of
whom access the Internet over the company’s Wi-Fi
infrastructure, Wang said Oct. 13.  China Mobile had 633.5 million mobile-phone subscribers at
the end of September. The total includes 43.2 million 3G users,
the company said today.  The figures exceed China Unicom’s 189 million mobile
customers and the 30.2 million users of its 3G service at the
end of September, according to data the smaller carrier released
yesterday.  China Unicom and China Telecom Corp., the nation’s third-
largest carrier, are scheduled to report earnings next week.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  