-- 
China PBOC Cuts 3-Year Bill Yield for 1st Time in 15 Months

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-20T03:29:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/china-pboc-cuts-3-year-bill-yield-for-1st-time-in-15-months-1-.html
The People’s Bank of  China  lowered
the yield on three-year bills for the first time in 15 months
after inflation cooled in September.  The central bank sold 20 billion yuan ($3.1 billion) of the
bills at 3.96 percent, compared with 3.97 percent on Oct. 13,
according to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the
auctions. The yield on three-month bills was unchanged at 3.1618
percent for an eighth auction, according to another trader who
declined to be identified. Consumer prices climbed 6.1 percent
last month from a year earlier following a 6.2 percent increase
in August, the government reported on Oct. 14.  “There is so much demand for three-year bills that the
central bank has to allow the yield to fall,” said Shi Lei, a
bond analyst in Beijing at Ping An Securities Co., a unit of the
nation’s second-biggest insurance company. “It also shows the
central bank is turning a bit loose in controlling money-market
rates as inflation trends down, but it doesn’t mean any
benchmark interest-rate cut will follow.”  The yield on the 3.44 percent government notes due June
2016 dropped four basis points to 3.59 percent as of 10:37 a.m.
in  Shanghai , according to the Interbank Funding Center. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Repurchase Rate  The one-year interest-rate swap contract, the fixed cost
needed to receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose
one basis point to 3.49 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The monetary authority drained a net 22 billion yuan of
capital from the financial system this week, according to Liu Junyu, a bond analyst in Shenzhen at China Merchants Bank Co.,
the nation’s sixth-biggest lender. The central bank issued 1
billion yuan of the three-month bills today.  “The withdrawal shows the central bank is intending to
control liquidity mainly through open-market operations,” said
Ping An’s Shi. “It’s still actively managing the total cash
supply.”  Shi said the central bank may allow the yield on three-year
bills to drop further next week.  The seven-day repurchase rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, rose nine basis points to 3.46 percent,
according to a weighted average rate compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center.  The central bank published in February a list of 50 primary
dealers allowed to participate in open-market operations,
including Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.,
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., Bank of China Ltd., China
Construction Bank Corp., China Citic Bank Corp., Industrial Bank
Co. and Postal Savings Bank of China.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Ven Ram,  James Regan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 