-- 
China’s Aggregate Financing Declines in First Nine Months

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-20T10:18:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/china-s-aggregate-financing-9-8-trillion-yuan-in-first-9-months.html
A measure of financing in  China 
dropped 11.4 percent to 9.8 trillion yuan ($1.53 trillion) in
the first nine months from a year earlier, the central bank said.  Aggregate financing, which includes bank lending, off-
balance sheet loans and bond and stock sales, compared with 7.76
trillion yuan in the first half of the year, according to data
posted on the People’s Bank of China website today.  The central bank introduced the new gauge this year to get
a clearer picture of credit creation that’s fueled inflation and
property speculation. Growth in banks’ wealth management
products and off-balance sheet lending has distorted money-
supply data as it doesn’t capture the credit created through
these avenues, according to banks including  Barclays Capital  and
Standard Chartered Plc.  The central bank said last month the current measure of
broad  money supply , M2, may be underestimating growth and it is
working on a new measure, which it described as M2+, to better
reflect developments in financial markets.  Yuan-denominated lending accounted for 58 percent of
aggregate financing in the first nine months, 1 percentage point
higher than a year earlier, and compared with 53.7 percent in
the first half, according to today’s central bank data.  Entrusted loans made up 10.9 percent of financing, 6.3
percentage points higher than the same period last year and
compared with 9.1 percent in the first half. Corporate bonds
accounted for 8.6 percent, down 0.3 percentage point from a year
earlier and little changed from the end of June, the data show.  It will take time for the central bank to decide whether
the gauge can be used as a monetary policy target, Sheng Songcheng, the head of the PBOC’s statistics department, said in
April. The measure is compiled from statistics provided by
government agencies including central bank, the National
Development and Reform Commission and the China Securities
Regulatory Commission, according to today’s statement.  --Zheng Lifei, Jing Jin. Editors: Nerys Avery, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story: Zheng Lifei in
Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  