-- 
China Starts Municipal Bond Sale Trial in Shanghai, Shenzhen

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-20T09:54:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/china-starts-municipal-bond-sale-trial-in-shanghai-shenzhen-1-.html
China  has approved a trial program
that will allow select local governments to issue bonds for the
first time and alleviate the debt burden on companies set up to
raise funds on their behalf.  The cities of  Shanghai  and Shenzhen, as well as the
provinces of Zhejiang and Guangdong will be able to issue debt
on their own rather than through the central government,
according to a statement on the  finance ministry ’s website. The
State Council will set a limit for the amount of debt that can
be sold under the program and the ministry will pay interest on
securities issued this year, the announcement said.  Local governments were previously barred from issuing bonds
directly under a budget law introduced in 1994, legislation that
prompted them to set up companies that raised finance
individually for projects. The entities together owed 10.7
trillion yuan ($1.7 trillion) at the end of last year, according
to figures published by the national auditor in June, and
 Standard & Poor’s  said in May that as much as 30 percent of the
liabilities may turn sour.  “It’s good preparation for allowing local governments to
issue bonds on their own next year,” Huang Jiliang, a fixed-
income analyst at Guotai Junan Securities Co. in Shanghai, said
in an interview today. “Yields probably won’t exceed those on
local  government bonds  issued by the finance ministry,
especially with ample liquidity in the market.”  State-run fund Central Huijin Investment Ltd., which holds
stakes in most of China’s financial institutions, said last week
it would start increasing its holdings in the nation’s four
biggest state-owned commercial banks after their shares dropped
on concerns that bad debts are increasing.  “It’s undeniable that the lack of supervision and
management of local government financing vehicles have created
some hidden risks,”  Liu Mingkang , China’s banking regulator
said, according to a transcript of a speech he gave posted on
the regulator’s website yesterday.  The government said the bonds in the trial program this
year will have maturities of three and five years, according to
today’s statement. The local governments involved can choose
their own underwriters to arrange the sales, it said.  Since March 2009, the finance ministry has issued bonds on
behalf of local authorities, repaying principal and interest for
them.  --Henry Sanderson,  Judy Chen . Editors: Simon Harvey, James Regan  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Judy Chen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at   ssmith118@bloomberg.net  