-- 
Christie Raised ‘Unprecedented’ Cash While Weighing 2012 Race

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-10-20T17:22:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/christie-raised-unprecedented-cash-for-n-j-.html
Chris Christie’s fund-raising swing
through western states last month brought in at least $530,000
as former U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft and a  Stifel
Financial Corp. (SF)  co-chairman helped the  New Jersey  governor
shatter the out-of-state fundraising record.  His trips generated more than $620,000 from non-New Jersey
sources, out of almost $1.5 million raised by the state
 Republican Party  in the quarter that ended last month, according
to a New Jersey Election Law Enforcement Commission filing.  Christie, 49, the first Republican elected governor in New
Jersey since 1997, spent the last week of September on a round
of speeches and fundraisers, including stops in California and
Missouri. He sought to attract money for home-state candidates
as he weighed joining the race for the Republican presidential
nomination next year.  “New Jersey has never had a governor as dynamic as  Chris
Christie , who has captivated donors and supporters across the
country,” said  Rick Gorka , a spokesman for the state party.
“This is unprecedented.”  Christie stepped up fundraising as his party looks to pick
up seats in the Legislature next month, when votes will be cast
for all 120 seats in both chambers. Democrats, who now control
the Assembly 47-33 and the Senate 24-16, are hoping to expand
their edge to a veto-proof two-thirds majority. The Republican
Party has banked about $3.17 million in 2011, the filing shows.  Democrats Trail  New Jersey’s Democratic State Committee raised $889,450 in
the nine months through September, according to a summary of
state campaign-finance reports. The Democratic committee brought
in almost $512,200 in the period from July 1 to Sept. 30.  The increase in out-of-state money follows years of New
Jerseyans providing financial support for politicians elsewhere,
said  Peter Woolley , who teaches politics at Fairleigh Dickinson
University in Madison. He also is director of the school’s
PublicMind Polling Institute.  “The Republicans are about as gleeful as they can be after
being in a fundraising wilderness for most of the past 10
years,” Woolley said by telephone. “Bringing outside dollars
into New Jersey was a complete reversal of the  cash flow .”  National Stature  The governor’s stature in national Republican circles rose
weeks after he took office in January 2010 when he froze $2.2
billion in spending to close a midyear deficit and then cut $10
billion in projected new spending on schools, pensions and aid
to cities. His battles with public-employee unions culminated in
June when he signed a measure requiring them to pay more for
pensions and health insurance.  Michael Drewniak , a Christie spokesman, declined to comment
on the governor’s fundraising.  After spending more than a year denying he’d run for
president in 2012 against  Barack Obama , Christie on Oct. 4 put
an end to weeks of renewed speculation that he’d join the race.  “New Jersey, you’re stuck with me,” the governor said at
the time. He had been pressed by business executives, party
leaders and donors to enter the primary campaign.  Contributors during the three-month span included Ashcroft,
a former U.S. Senator who gave $2,500 on Sept. 30, and Thom Weisel, a Stifel co-chairman, who chipped in $7,500.  A spokeswoman in Stifel’s San Francisco office said Weisel
was unavailable late yesterday for comment on the donation. She
didn’t immediately respond to a message left today. The St.
Louis-based investment bank and brokerage acquired Thomas Weisel
Partners Group Inc. last year.  Friend and Leader  “Governor Christie is a good friend and a leader who
Attorney General Ashcroft greatly admires,” Mark Corallo, a
spokesman, said by e-mail. “Ashcroft is a Republican and as
such, has supported several Republican candidates for elected
office and Republican state party organizations.”  Ashcroft is a  Missouri  native who served in the Senate from
1995 to 2001, when then-President  George W. Bush  nominated him
to the nation’s top law-enforcement post. During Ashcroft’s term
as attorney general, which ended in 2005, Christie worked under
him as the U.S. Attorney for New Jersey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  