-- 
Chubb Third-Quarter Profit Plunges 48%

-- B y   M a r y e l l e n   T i g h e   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-10-20T23:04:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/chubb-quarterly-profit-plunges-48-on-hurricane-irene-catastrophe-claims.html
Chubb Corp. (CB) , the insurer of
commercial property and high-end homes, said quarterly profit
fell 48 percent on costs from catastrophes including  Hurricane
Irene . The insurer trimmed its forecast for full-year earnings.  Third-quarter net income declined to $298 million, or $1.04
a share, from $572 million, or $1.80, a year earlier, the
Warren, New Jersey-based company said today in a statement.
Operating profit, which excludes some investment results, was 88
cents a share, compared with 77 cents, the average estimate of
21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Catastrophe costs rose to $420 million pretax from $58
million a year earlier, Chubb said. Irene pounded the U.S. East
Coast in August with flooding rains and high winds. The storm
may cost insurers as much as $5.5 billion, modeling firm Risk
Management Solutions Inc. said in a September  statement .  “This is the biggest loss they’ve taken in quite some
time,”  Mark Dwelle , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , said in
a phone interview before full results were announced. “They
have a relatively higher market presence in the Northeast and
New England,” areas that suffered losses from Irene. He rates
Chubb “sector perform.”  Chubb, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Finnegan, advanced 72 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $65.35 on the
New York Stock Exchange. It has climbed 9.6 percent this year as
the 24-company  KBW Insurance Index (KIX)  fell 18 percent.  Chubb’s Forecast  The insurer said operating income for the year may be $5.10
to $5.20 a share, down from its July forecast of $5.55 to $5.85.
Storms may cut further into earnings of insurers including
Northbrook, Illinois-based  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  that had second-
quarter losses on tornado costs.  Chubb, which gets about a quarter of revenue from outside
the U.S., incurred first-quarter costs from flooding and a
tropical cyclone in  Australia , and earthquakes in  Japan  and  New
Zealand . It faced U.S. storms including tornados that killed
more than 150 people in Joplin,  Missouri , and leveled parts of
Tuscaloosa,  Alabama  in the second quarter.  The insurer’s growth is focused on areas outside the U.S.
Northeast and  Florida , regions that are prone to storm-related
claims, Chubb said today.  “We’re even practicing triage and reducing business in the
cat-prone areas,” Finnegan said on a conference call. “That is
the core of our business so all of the growth really has to come
from the non-cat areas.”  Profit Decline  Profit fell to the lowest since Chubb posted net income of
$246.4 million for the third quarter of 2005, when Hurricanes
Katrina and Rita slammed the U.S. Gulf Coast.  “Rates will need to continue to increase to offset the
negative impact on industry earnings attributable to the
prolonged soft market, record level of catastrophe losses and
significantly lower yields currently available on investments,”
Finnegan, 62, said in the statement.  Travelers Cos., the lone insurer in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average , had  $253 million  in Irene-related claims and
total third-quarter catastrophe costs of $394 million. The New
York-based company said yesterday that net income for the period
slipped 67 percent to $333 million from a year earlier.  Chubb said book value climbed to $56.23 a share from $55.23
as of June 30. Premium revenue rose to $2.9 billion from $2.8
billion a year earlier on an increase in commercial-policy sales
and home and auto coverage.  Chubb spent 2.6 cents for every premium dollar, compared
with earning 13.8 cents a year earlier.  Accounting Change  Compliance with new rules governing how insurers account
for costs of acquiring or renewing policies may lead to a $250
million to $300 million reduction in Chubb shareholder’s equity
at the end of this year. So-called deferred acquisition costs
will decline about 22 percent to 27 percent, Chief Financial
Officer Richard Spiro said on a call with analysts after
earnings were announced.  “The new guidance requires that only costs that are
directly related to the successful acquisition of new or renewal
insurance contracts are eligible for deferral,” he said. “The
amount of acquisition costs we will defer upon adoption of the
new guidance will be less than the amount deferred under our
current accounting practice.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maryellen Tighe in  New York  at 
 mtighe6@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  