-- 
BofA, Citigroup, JPMorgan, AT&T, Galleon in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-10-20T11:02:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/citigroup-jpmorgan-deutsche-bank-galleon-in-court-news.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s proposed
$8.5 billion settlement with mortgage-bond investors must be
considered in federal court and not in  New York  state court
where it was first filed, a U.S. judge said.  “The settlement agreement at issue here implicates core
federal interests in the integrity of nationally chartered banks
and the vitality of the national securities markets,” U.S.
District Judge William Pauley in  Manhattan  said in a decision
filed yesterday. “A controversy touching on these paramount
federal interests should proceed in federal court.”  The proposed agreement would settle claims from investors
in Countrywide Financial Corp. mortgage bonds and is a move by
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America to resolve
liabilities tied to its 2008 purchase of the home lender. The
deal was reached with an institutional investor group that
includes  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Pacific Investment Management Co.
and would apply to 530 mortgage-securitization trusts.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the trustee for the
mortgage-bond trusts, filed the settlement in state court and
planned to seek approval at a November hearing. Under the state
proceeding, approval would bind investors outside the group that
negotiated the agreement.  Kevin Heine, a Bank of New York spokesman, declined to
comment on the ruling. The bank had asked Pauley to return the
case to state court after it had been moved to federal court.
 Kathy Patrick , a lawyer for the institutional investor group
that negotiated the agreement, didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment on it yesterday.  The proposed settlement agreement has been criticized by
some investors in the bonds, including  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) , which said in a court filing that Bank of America is
“drastically underpaying on its liability.” Other investors
have filed objections to the agreement, saying they need more
information to evaluate it.  One investor group, Walnut Place LLC and related entities,
moved the case to federal court in August. They said in a court
filing that they have “serious concerns about the adequacy of
the settlement and conflicts of interests of the parties that
negotiated it.” Investor claims “are worth many times” more
than $8.5 billion, they said.  Owen Cyrulnik, a lawyer for the Walnut Place entities,
declined to comment after a Sept. 21 court hearing about why
they wanted the case in federal court. In court papers, they
said Bank of New York filed the Article 77 proceeding, to
“cherry-pick” the benefits of class-action settlements and
“cast aside the aspects that it finds inconvenient,” mainly
the right of investors to opt out.  David J. Grais, a lawyer for Walnut Place, declined to
comment.  The case is Bank of New York Mellon v. Walnut Place LLC,
11-cv-5988, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Citigroup to Pay $285 Million Over SEC’s CDO Fraud Claims  Citigroup Inc., the third-biggest U.S. lender, agreed to
pay $285 million to settle U.S. regulatory claims it misled
investors about a $1 billion financial product linked to risky
mortgages that defaulted within months of its sale.  Citigroup structured and sold the collateralized debt
obligation in 2007 without telling investors that it helped pick
about half the underlying assets and was betting they’d decline
in value, the Securities and Exchange Commission said in a
statement yesterday.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  agreed to pay $2.5
million for its role in selecting the assets, the SEC said.  Citigroup’s settlement, the third-biggest penalty paid for
conduct related to the credit crisis, is the latest SEC action
against banks that bundled and sold securities linked to the
housing market.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  paid a record $550
million in 2010 for failing to tell investors that a hedge fund
that helped select a CDO’s assets was betting it would decline.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  paid $153.6 million in a similar matter in
June, and SEC officials have said more cases are on the horizon.  “Investors were not informed that Citigroup had decided to
bet against them and had helped choose the assets that would
determine who won or lost,” Robert Khuzami, the SEC’s
enforcement director, said in a statement.  The approximately 15 clients in the deal known as Class V
Funding III lost virtually their entire investments. Citigroup
received about $34 million in fees and reaped about $126 million
in profits from the short position, according to the complaint.  The SEC also sued Brian Stoker, a former Citigroup employee
who the agency said was responsible for structuring the deal,
according to a complaint filed yesterday at U.S. District Court
in New York. Stoker’s attorney, Fraser Hunter, said his client
will “defend this lawsuit vigorously.”  For more, click here.  Citigroup, McGraw-Hill Win Appeals in Retirement Plan Suits  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and McGraw-Hill Cos. won appeals-court
decisions upholding dismissal of lawsuits brought by employees
claiming their retirement plans lost money invested in company
stock.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan upheld the
dismissals in companion ruling yesterday. In 2009, U.S. District
Judge  Sidney Stein  in New York found that Citigroup, the third-
biggest U.S. lender, didn’t breach its duty to the workers by
offering Citigroup stock as an investment option. In February
2010, U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  ruled similarly in
favor of McGraw-Hill, the finance and media company that is
splitting into two.  The Citigroup plan fiduciaries “didn’t abuse their
discretion here,” the appeals court wrote in that ruling.  The Citigroup suit was filed on behalf of 150,000 employees
covered by two retirement plans. The plaintiffs in the McGraw-
Hill case participated in one of two defined-contribution plans
offered by the company. Both cases were brought under the
federal Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, also
known as ERISA. Both companies are based in New York.  “We’re totally disappointed with the decision,” Marc I.
Machiz, a lawyer for the Citigroup employees, said in a phone
interview. “We’re disappointed both for the Citigroup employees
who are not going to get a remedy for their losses and because
the decision makes it difficult or impossible to get a remedy
from a company that mismanages its plan.”  Machiz, of Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC in
Philadelphia, said it was likely the Citigroup plaintiffs would
ask the full appeals court to rehear the case.  Edwin Mills, a lawyer for the McGraw-Hill employees at
Stull, Stull & Brody in New York, didn’t immediately return a
call for comment on the decision.  The cases are Gray v. Citigroup Inc., 09-3804, and Gearren
v. McGraw-Hill Cos., 10-792, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Iberiabank to Pay $2.5 Million to Settle Overdraft Suits  Iberiabank Corp. (IBKC)  agreed to pay $2.5 million to settle
consumer lawsuits accusing the Louisiana bank of illegally
charging excessive overdraft fees, according to court papers.  Iberiabank officials also will change policies governing
the way debit-card transactions are handled in connection with
overdraft fees, the Lafayette, Louisiana-based bank said in an
Oct. 18 court filing in federal court in Miami. Overdraft suits
filed across the U.S. have been consolidated in that court for
pre-trial proceedings.  Bank customers who are covered by the settlement will
receive their share of the settlement fund “without having to
do anything at all,” lawyers for consumers who sued Iberiabank
over the overdraft policy, said in the court filing.  The settlement comes nine months after Bank of America
Corp., the second-largest U.S. bank by assets, agreed to pay
$410 million to resolve similar claims over its overdraft
policies. In May, a judge in Miami gave preliminary approval to
the accord.  Daryl Byrd, Iberiabank’s president and chief executive
officer, didn’t return a call seeking comment on the settlement
yesterday. The bank didn’t admit any wrongdoing in the
settlement, according to the court filing.  The case is In re Checking Account Overdraft Litigation,
09-02036, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  KV Pharmaceutical Sued Over Pregnancy Drug Pricing Statements  KV Pharmaceutical Co. (KV/A)  was sued by an investor who accused
it of misleading shareholders about its marketing plans for
Makena, a drug intended to prevent premature births.  Frank Julianello’s complaint, filed yesterday in federal
court in St. Louis, accuses the Bridgeton, Missouri, drugmaker,
Chief Executive Officer Gregory Divis and another executive,
Scott Goedeke, of making false statements in February about its
intent to make the drug widely available.  Democratic U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and
Sherrod Brown of Ohio criticized KV the following month for
pricing Makena at $1,500 per injection, when it previously was
available for $10 to $20 per weekly dosage. KV shares fell 21
percent on March 30 after the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
said pharmacists were free to provide less-expensive versions.
KV dropped from $13.07 on March 8 to $4.60 on April 5, losing 65
percent of its value.  “This decrease in the price of KV’s stock was a result of
the artificial inflation caused by defendants’ misleading
statements,” according to Julianello’s complaint.  He seeks class-action, or group, status on behalf of
everyone who bought the company’s stock from Feb. 14 to April 4,
an an award of unspecified money damages, plus interest.  There was no reply yesterday to voice-mail or e-mail
messages left with the company’s investor relations department.  The case is Julianello v. KV Pharmaceutical Co., 11-
cv-01816, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Missouri (St.
Louis).  BofA, Wells Fargo, JPMorgan Sued by ATM User Over Fees  Bank of America Corp.,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and JPMorgan Chase
& Co. were sued for allegedly colluding to fix access fees for
automated teller machines.  The antitrust suit, brought in federal court in  Washington 
by an ATM user and made public yesterday, also names  Visa Inc. (V) 
and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the world’s biggest payment networks, as
defendants. It is the third lawsuit filed in Washington in the
past week alleging price-fixing of ATM fees and surcharges.  “The violation in this case is a horizontal agreement
among every bank that is a member of the Visa and/or MasterCard
networks that charges ATM access fees on foreign ATM
transactions,” the complaint alleges.  The suit was filed by a New Jersey man on behalf of
consumers who “have been forced to pay artificially inflated,
supra-competitive ATM access fees,” according to the filing.  Two earlier lawsuits, one filed Oct. 18 and the other Oct.
12, accuse Visa and MasterCard of antitrust violations for
restricting independent ATM operators from charging varying
prices for customers using alternative networks such as STAR,
Shazam Inc. or TransFund.  Thomas Kelly, a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman
for Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail message seeking comment on the
suit. Ancel Martinez, a spokesman for San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo, didn’t immediately respond to telephone messages seeking
comment on the lawsuit.  James Issokson, a spokesman for MasterCard, based in
Purchase, New York, said in an e-mailed statement that the
lawsuits “challenging certain MasterCard ATM rules are without
merit” and that the company will defend itself against them.  Will Valentine, a spokesman for San Francisco-based Visa,
declined to comment on the filing.  The case is Genese v. Visa Inc., 11-1838, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Madoff Judge Grants Mets Owners’ Request for Confidentiality  The New York Mets owners won new confidentiality
restrictions on information the liquidator of Bernard Madoff’s
firm gathers ahead of a trial over his right to take back money
withdrawn from the con man’s Ponzi scheme.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan set a March 19
trial date for trustee  Irving Picard ’s case against the Major
League Baseball team owners after narrowing by two-thirds the $1
billion demanded by Picard from Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz. In an
order published yesterday, Rakoff said he disagreed with Picard,
who had said Rakoff couldn’t modify the confidentiality rules
the trustee currently uses in bankruptcy court.  “The defendants’ proposal keeps confidential everything
that was previously marked confidential and simply adds some
modest, standard, further restrictions,” Rakoff said.  The trustee’s fear of added administrative burdens from the
changes “appears exaggerated,” he wrote.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, didn’t respond to an e-
mail seeking comment.  Picard initially sued the Mets owners in bankruptcy court.
They asked Rakoff to handle the case.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  AT&T Seeks Data on Sprint’s Wireless Deals in Antitrust Case  AT&T Inc. (T) , the wireless carrier fighting U.S. efforts to
block its proposed acquisition of T-Mobile USA Inc., asked for
data on rival  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s past corporate transactions.  AT&T asked Sprint for documents relating to transactions
entered into since January 2004, including deals with Nextel
Communications Inc., Virgin Mobile and Clearwire Corp.,
according to a filing in Washington federal court yesterday by
Sprint, which filed its own lawsuit to halt the T-Mobile deal.  Sprint said the request shows why U.S. District Judge Ellen
Segal Huvelle should give it access to data Dallas-based AT&T
turned over to the Justice Department.  “Requests for these types of documents go far beyond
ordinary, non-party merger case discovery, which focuses on the
current competitive landscape, not on the details of every
transaction entered into by a competitor in the last eight
years,” Overland Park, Kansas-based Sprint said in the filing.  Sprint and Ridgeland, Mississippi-based Cellular South Inc.
urged Huvelle to let their outside lawyers and experts use
AT&T’s private data to prepare for trial in their own lawsuits.
To deprive them of that opportunity creates a “fundamental
unfairness,” the wireless carriers said in an earlier filing.  John Taylor, a spokesman for Sprint, declined to comment
beyond the filing. Michael Balmoris, an AT&T spokesman, declined
to comment.  The Justice Department sued AT&T and Bonn-based  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a combination of
the two companies would “substantially” reduce competition.
Seven states and Puerto Rico joined the effort to block the
deal, which would make AT&T the biggest U.S. wireless carrier.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Countrywide Suit Belongs in N.Y. State Court, FHFA Says  Countrywide Financial Corp. defendants improperly moved a
suit by the Federal Housing Finance Agency to federal court in
Manhattan from state court in an attempt to transfer it to a
multidistrict litigation case in  California , the agency said
yesterday.  Countrywide was among 17 banks sued by the FHFA in
September. The FHFA alleges it lost “billions of dollars”
after Countrywide offered $26.6 billion worth of residential
mortgage backed securities to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac from
2005 to 2008.  FHFA says Countrywide filed a removal notice to move the
case to federal court in Manhattan on Sept. 30. At least 11 of
16 other suits brought by the agency are currently before
federal judges in New York. Countrywide also filed a notice on
Oct. 3 to transfer the case to the Central District of
California, where a multidistrict litigation that relates to it
is pending.  “In their bid to achieve removal, the Countrywide
defendants stretch the doctrines upon which they rely beyond the
breaking point,” FHFA said in court papers filed yesterday.
“The Countrywide defendants’ preferred forum is not the legal
forum,” FHFA said. “Plaintiff FHFA thus respectfully requests
that this action be remanded to New York state Supreme Court.”  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America, which
acquired Countrywide in 2008, declined to comment on the U.S.
request.  The case is FHFA v. Countrywide Financial Corp., 11cv6916,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Deutsche Bank Loses Bid to Revise $2.4 Billion Lehman Claims  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  lost a bid to reclassify $2.4 billion in
claims on  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  as a judge denied a
request to force the defunct firm to upgrade their value.  Deutsche Bank, which told a judge that about $100 million
is at stake in the classification, can take up the issue again
later, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck said at a court hearing
yesterday in Manhattan.  Germany’s largest lender bought the claims from a Lehman
affiliate, Lehman Brothers Bankhaus AG, in July 2010. Consisting
of a $1.4 billion IOU from the Lehman parent and a $1 billion
IOU from Lehman’s commercial-paper unit, they were classified at
the time as general unsecured claims. Lehman ranked them in
August as affiliate claims, which were worth less, in the third
version of its $65 billion liquidation plan, Deutsche Bank said.  “My understanding is that Deutsche Bank bought the claims
under an acquisition agreement,” Peck told lawyers from the
Frankfurt-based bank. “You acquired affiliate claims and you
can’t improve your position simply because Deutsche Bank isn’t
an affiliate of Lehman.”  The bank is “still discussing internally” if it would
continue to support Lehman’s plan if the claims aren’t revised,
Alan Kolod, a lawyer for Deutsche Bank, told Peck.  Lehman had a right to reclassify the claims under a deal
struck with bankrupt Bankhaus last year on settling intercompany
obligations, lawyer  Harvey Miller  said.  “Nothing limited Lehman’s ability to make different
classifications,” he said. “Nothing says Bankhaus will get the
highest recovery of all unsecured claims.”  A sophisticated buyer, “Deutsche Bank took a business
risk” by buying the Bankhaus claims before Lehman settled on a
final plan, Miller said. The bank made the purchase without
consulting Lehman about their possible value in a revised plan,
he said.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials  Rambus Jury Reviews More Testimony at Hynix-Micron Trial  The jury deliberating whether  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  and
 Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  conspired to push  Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  out of the
memory-chip market reviewed trial testimony by Farhad Tabrizi, a
former Hynix executive.  California Superior Court Judge James McBride in San
Francisco said yesterday that the 12-member jury, which has been
deliberating since Sept. 22, requested information about
Tabrizi’s testimony that he was “pressured to become more
upbeat about” Rambus-designed dynamic random access memory
chips, or RDRAM, at a May 2000 chip industry forum. Rambus
lawyers questioned Tabrizi, a former Hynix vice president of
worldwide marketing, “extensively” about whether his
enthusiasm was “genuine,” McBride said.  McBride said in his chambers that he reviewed testimony
excerpts with lawyers from both sides to be read back to the
jury.  “We know that Mr. Tabrizi was not the most terse
witness,” and that he “tended to fold in a lot of topics in
any answer,” which produced objections from lawyers during
trial, McBride said. “The jury in its collective wisdom will
ask further questions” if the testimony isn’t satisfactory, the
judge said.  Rambus, based in Sunnyvale, California, contends that
Boise, Idaho-based Micron and Ichon, South Korea-based Hynix
colluded to cut the prices of their own SDRAM, or synchronous
dynamic random access memory, chips and deserted their
commitment to produce RDRAM, relegating it to a niche role.  Rambus contends it would have earned $3.95 billion in
royalties without the alleged conspiracy. Under California law,
a jury finding of damages in that amount would be automatically
tripled to $11.9 billion.  Lawyers for Hynix and Micron argued that Rambus has only
itself to blame, not collusion by rivals, for the flaws and
production delays that led to the failure of its product to
become an industry standard.  The case is Rambus Inc. v. Micron Technology Inc.,
04-0431105, California Superior Court (San Francisco).  For more, click here.  Milan Swap Fees May Not Cover Risk, Depfa Executive Says  Banks that sold swaps to Milan may lose money on the
transactions because the fees charged don’t cover all the risk
assumed, Marco Santarcangelo, a Depfa Bank Plc banker on trial
for fraud, told a Milan court.  The city of Milan isn’t required to post collateral against
a potential loss on its swaps while banks such as Depfa must do
so with their counterparties, Santarcangelo said yesterday.
Margins on the swaps may be insufficient to cover the banks’
cost of funding, he said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  UBS AG (UBSN) , Deutsche Bank AG and Dublin-
based Depfa are on trial on charges of mis-selling swaps to
Milan, derivatives that adjusted payments on a 1.7 billion-euro
($2.4 billion) bond offering in 2005. Prosecutor Alfredo Robledo
said the banks misled Milan by telling the city it could save
about 55 million euros with the bond sale and a series of swaps.
Robledo says the banks earned 101 million euros in hidden fees.
The banks deny the charges.  Depfa, a unit of Hypo Real Estate Holding AG, charged total
gross margins of about 18 million euros on the 2005 swaps and
subsequent restructurings, Santarcangelo told the court. The
firm’s derivative traders assured Santarcangelo that the fees
were in line with market practice, he said. At the end of the
30-year deal, banks may still record a loss, he said.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Queen’s Law Firm Knew of  News Corp. (NWSA)  Hacking Lie to Lawmakers  Farrer & Co. , the law firm whose clients include Queen
Elizabeth II, knew News Corp.’s U.K. unit lied to Parliament in
2009 about the extent of phone hacking at its British tabloid
and didn’t take action.  News Corp. had evidence hacking was widespread when it told
Parliament two years ago that a “rogue” reporter at the News
of the World was to blame, Farrer & Co. lawyer Julian Pike told
lawmakers yesterday. He also revealed a previously undisclosed
May 2008 meeting at which he said James Murdoch was told about
phone-hacking at the paper, in addition to the June 2008 meeting
about which other company executives had testified.  The situation was “not ideal,” Pike said when asked by
lawmakers whether the queen’s law firm should let other clients
lie to Parliament. “I don’t think it caused me any professional
embarrassment. I do behave with integrity.”  The firm, which negotiated the company’s first settlement
with a hacking victim in 2008, was dropped by News Corp. two
days ago after it said it needed to consolidate its legal
representation in dozens of lawsuits.  The evidence centered around an e-mail produced by police
during settlement talks with hacking victim Gordon Taylor, the
head of the Professional Footballers’ Association, which showed
transcripts of hacked voice mails had been passed around the
News of the World newsroom. The e-mail showed wrongdoing went
beyond the tabloid’s royal reporter Clive Goodman and private
investigator Glenn Mulcaire, who were both jailed in 2007.  For more, click here.  Quinn Emanuel to Open Moscow Office to Aid  London  Lawsuits  Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP, a Los Angeles-based
law firm, plans to open a Moscow office this year as more
Russians seek to bring cases in London courts.  “Russians don’t have a lot of faith and confidence in
their own legal system in Moscow and so they often agree to
resolve disputes in London,” John Quinn, the firm’s managing
partner, said yesterday in a phone interview. “We want to have
a base in Moscow and to be close to clients there.”  Quinn Emanuel, which has 20 lawyers in London, plans to
have 10 attorneys in Moscow within six months, he said. The firm
hired Ivan Marisin and Vasily Kuznetsov from Dechert LLP in
Moscow to start the new office, with Marisin as managing
partner. Their clients have included  Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. (BK)  and Societe Generale SA.  “They are both experienced, extremely well-respected
litigators with a track record of success both in Russia and
internationally,” Quinn said in a statement.  Quinn Emanuel specializes in intellectual-property and
class-action litigation. The firm has nine offices and most
recently opened a site in Mannheim, Germany, in March 2010.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  On the Docket  Rajaratnam Friend Goel’s Sentencing Postponed Until January  Rajiv Goel, a former  Intel Corp. (INTC)  managing director who
testified at the insider-trading trial of his onetime friend  Raj
Rajaratnam , will be sentenced Jan. 20 for his crimes, a judge
said.  Goel had been set to be sentenced in Manhattan federal
court last month. In response to a letter from prosecutors
seeking a delay, U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell set the
January date. The decision was posted on the docket yesterday.  Goel pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud in
February 2010, and testified in March against the Galleon Group
LLC co-founder in a bid for leniency. Goel said he had known
Rajaratnam for 25 years and said he told him about Intel’s
earnings in 2007 and a $1 billion transaction in 2008.  The top penalty for insider trading is 20 years in prison,
prosecutors said at the time of Goel’s plea. Rajaratnam, 54, the
central figure in what U.S. investigators called the largest
hedge fund insider trading case in U.S. history, was sentenced
to 11 years in prison on Oct. 13.  Goel said he and Rajaratnam became friends at the Wharton
School at the University of Pennsylvania, from which they
graduated in 1983, and grew close over ensuing years. The
families vacationed together, said Goel, a native of Mumbai.  Goel, who worked in Intel’s treasury unit, was arrested
along with Rajaratnam in 2009, charged with passing tips about a
firm that Santa Clara, California-based Intel made an investment
in as well information about Intel’s $1 billion investment in a
new wireless network company formed by Clearwire Corp. and
Sprint Nextel Corp.  The case is U.S. v. Goel, 10-cr-90, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 