-- 
Cofco Plans to Expand Globally to Secure Corn and Wheat Supplies for China

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-21T04:46:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/cofco-plans-to-expand-globally-to-secure-corn-and-wheat-supplies-for-china.html
Cofco Ltd.,  China ’s largest grains
trader, said it is seeking overseas acquisitions to help secure
supplies of commodities including soybeans, wheat and sugar as
rising domestic incomes spur faster food demand growth.  The state-owned company is looking for investments in the
U.S.,  South America , Australia and  Russia , Frank Ning, company
chairman, said in an interview in Beijing. He did not identify
which companies were being considered.  “I’m trying to connect the Chinese consumer market with
outside sources,” Ning said yesterday. “Whatever Chinese
consume more of, need more supply of from outside, this is our
area,” he said. The company may be engaged in farming,
logistics, processing, and trading ventures in supplier
countries, Ning said.  Securing external food supplies is becoming increasingly
important after urban household incomes in China more than
tripled in the past decade, fueling consumption of meat, poultry
and dairy. China, which last year became a net corn importer for
the first time in more than 10 years, may have bought as much as
3.5 million metric tons in the first half, researcher
Grain.gov.cn said on Oct. 13.  China may have to increase imports because its dependence
on the use of ground water for grain production “isn’t going to
be sustainable indefinitely,” said Arthur Kroeber, managing
director of Beijing-based GaveKal Dragonomics Research, a
financial advisory firm.  Surging Imports  Corn imports may surge to as much as 20 million tons a year
by 2015 while rice imports may total 8 million tons, Chief
Executive Officer Sunny Verghese of Olam International Ltd. said
Oct. 18.  “Today China will have to look at global sources to
balance its demand,” Ning said. Corn has become particularly
“tight” because of its wider application outside the livestock
industry, such as paper-making and pharmaceutical use, Ning
said.  China may be putting off “inevitable” large grain imports
for 10 to 20 years to enable the opportunity to “develop
companies like Cofco as domestic alternatives to Cargill and
give them some sense of security of supply,” Kroeber said.  While the government has limited expansion of corn-based
industry to ensure priority for livestock, “it’s difficult to
control demand for starch” or other corn-derived products
because there’s a strong demand for them, he said. So “either
we produce here, or buy from outside,” he said.  China has become more transparent in the past five years by
disclosing grain reserves and by signaling it wants to boost
corn and pork imports, Ning said.  Wheat, Rice  Still, the world’s biggest grain grower will likely remain
mostly self-sufficient in wheat and rice, Ning said. China’s 1.3
billion people consume 160 million tons of rice a year, so no
country can “supply the gap if China produces a gap,” he said.
The biggest exporter  Thailand  only exports 8 million tons, he
said.  Cofco is looking into wheat-related projects in Russia,
Ning said without elaborating. After winning control of
Australian sugar mill Tully Sugar Ltd., Cofco is seeking to
acquire Proserpine Co-operative Sugar Milling Association.
Proserpine rejected a revised offer on Sept. 24, saying “it
leaves a lot of unanswered questions.”  The company’s expansion into other countries may encounter
difficulties, Ning said. “It’s in a different country with
different people” with nationalism or “other things,” he
said. The difficulties likely stem from a “lack of
understanding of what the Chinese may do,” Ning said. “The
Chinese want to do business, that’s all,” he said.  ‘Sensitive Matter’  Most countries will find it a rather “sensitive matter”
to either sell or give long-term leases for food production
areas to other foreign entities, Kroeber said. Still, cash-rich
Cofco can offer “very attractive terms,” he said.  The demand for food in China will keep expanding because
the economy will continue its fast growth, given the
urbanization of millions of farmers, the rising middle-class and
continued overseas investments, Ning said. “I don’t think China
will have a hard-landing,” he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  