-- 
Colombia Yields Hold at Two-Week High on Inflation Concern

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-10-20T18:18:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/colombia-yields-hold-at-two-week-high-on-inflation-concern.html
Yields on  Colombia ’s peso bonds rose
to a two-week high on bets heavier-than-average rain will push
food prices higher and stoke inflation.  The yield on Colombia’s benchmark 10 percent bonds due in
July 2024 rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to
7.56 percent. That’s its highest level since Oct. 7.  Colombia’s weather agency said yesterday that the La Nina
weather pattern, which triggers above-average rainfall, may
return in December and last through March. Rain in the first
half of October was equivalent to the historical average for the
whole month, according to the government. Floods last year and
at the beginning of this year damaged crops and choked off
farmers’ supply routes, pushing food prices higher.  “People are nervous as they fear the bad weather will lead
to higher food prices,” said  Camilo Perez , head analyst at
Banco de Bogota SA, Colombia’s second-biggest bank.  Colombia’s consumer prices rose 0.31 percent in September
from the previous month, driven by higher housing and food
costs, after declining 0.03 percent in August. The government
will release the October inflation report Nov. 5.  Economists covering the Colombian economy raised their
year-end inflation forecast to 3.42 percent this month from 3.23
percent in the September survey, according to the median
forecast in a central bank survey published Oct. 12.  The peso declined 0.3 percent to 1908.75 per  U.S. dollar ,
from 1,902.42 yesterday.  Colombia yesterday imposed a limit on foreign-exchange
trading by pension funds as it seeks to reduce the peso’s
volatility after the global market sell-off sparked a plunge in
the currency.  Pension funds’ currency transactions over a five-day period
can equal no more than 2.5 percent of their assets under
management, the  Finance Ministry  said in a  statement . The
measure limits trading in the  spot market  as well as derivatives
trading, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  