-- 
Commercial Real Estate Deals Decline in Cooling of U.S. Property Rebound

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t ,   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   D a n   L e v y
-- 
2011-10-20T22:25:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/commercial-real-estate-deals-decline-in-cooling-of-u-s-property-rebound.html
The U.S. commercial real estate
market has slowed in the past three months as the sputtering
economy and a pullback in debt financing limited deals, cooling
a recovery from  Washington  to California.  A total of $49.8 billion of commercial property changed
hands in the third quarter, down from $58.5 billion in the
previous three months, according to a report released today by
Real Capital Analytics Inc. The 15 percent decline is the
second-biggest since the first quarter of 2009, the real estate
research firm’s data show.  Deals slowed after concern deepened that the debt crisis in
 Europe  may spread and the U.S. economy may enter another
recession. Smaller markets are being hurt by less availability
of commercial-mortgage bonds. The retreat may be an indication
of a market awakening to the fact that it was getting ahead of
itself, said  Susan Wachter , professor of real estate and finance
at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School.  “You can’t turn an ocean liner around on a dime,” Wachter
said in a telephone interview. “The market itself realized that
deals were getting done at pretty pricey points, and at the same
time you had all of the events that undermined confidence.”  Growth probably won’t accelerate “as long as conditions
are as unsettled as they are,” Wachter said.  Commercial Recovery  In contrast to the U.S. housing market, where sales are
near the same level as when the recession ended two years ago,
commercial property demand has rebounded, particularly in the
so-called core markets of New York, Washington and  San
Francisco . Commercial real estate transactions in the second
quarter were more than double their level from a year earlier
and quadruple the post-recession low of $12.9 billion in the
first quarter of 2009, according to Real Capital.  Commercial real estate prices were little changed three of
the last four months as “fear” crept into the market, Green
Street Advisors Inc. reported on Oct. 6. Prior to the slowdown,
prices had recovered three-quarters of the value lost after
credit markets froze in late 2008, according to the Newport
Beach, California-based property research company, which
compiles its data from real estate investment trusts.  Third-quarter deals for office buildings, hotels,
industrial properties, apartments and shopping complexes were up
38 percent from the same time in 2010, according to Real
Capital’s report.  All Property Types  “While this growth is respectable, it falls well short of
the gains posted at mid-year,” the company said in the report.
“The slowing was evident across all property types and most
markets as well. Nevertheless, sales have totaled $143.5 billion
year to date, already surpassing the full-year 2010 total.”  Part of the sequential decline stemmed from large portfolio
transactions in the second quarter, which included  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) ’s $9 billion takeover of Australian mall owner Centro
Properties Group’s U.S. shopping centers. Portfolio deals
totaled $9.36 billion in the third quarter, down from $17.8
billion in the previous three months, according to Real Capital.  Sales showed “some surprising strength” in the third
quarter,  Dan Fasulo , managing director of New York-based Real
Capital, said in an e-mail. Still, he said he expects volume to
be “tempered” until Europe’s debt issues are clarified, and
the market for commercial-mortgage securities recovers.  Bigger Decline  Preliminary data from a competing research firm,
Washington-based CoStar Group Inc., showed an even bigger
decline in third-quarter sales, with transactions tumbling 29
percent from the second quarter to $62.6 billion. Real Capital
only counts deals of $2.5 million or higher, while Washington-
based CoStar has no minimum size. CoStar is still entering data,
so the decline will likely be smaller than the current number,
said Aaron Jodka, manager of U.S. market research.  “The  U.S. economy  and the global economy are very much on
shaky ground,” said Stephen Malpezzi, professor of real estate
and urban land economics at the University of Wisconsin’s
business school in Madison. “Commercial real estate doesn’t
exist in a vacuum and it’s only going to recover to the extent
there’s confidence amongst businesses -- the users of commercial
real estate -- and that, in turn, depends on the consumer.”  Standard & Poor’s  on Aug. 5 cut its  credit rating  for the
U.S. to AA+ from AAA, while the  Federal Reserve  said last month
that there are “significant downside risks” to the economy.
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis poses a “serious” risk to U.S.
growth, the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco said in an
Oct. 17 paper.  CMBS Pullback  Financing for deals has tightened. Borrowing costs in the
market for commercial mortgage-backed securities have jumped
more than a full percentage point since the second quarter,
according to an index from Barclays Capital Inc.  The $600 billion CMBS market had provided the cheap debt
financing that drove commercial real estate to record highs in
2007, and sales of the securities were starting to come back
gradually until late July. The market got a jolt that month when
S&P pulled its rating on a $1.5 billion commercial-mortgage bond
sale by Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which had
already overhauled the transaction after investors demanded
better collateral protection.  The CMBS turmoil has hurt secondary markets such as
Minneapolis; Austin,  Texas ; and Raleigh, North Carolina, said
Spencer Levy, a Baltimore-based executive managing director on
the U.S.  capital markets  team at CBRE Group Inc., the world’s
largest commercial real estate brokerage. There have been fewer
bidders and lower offers, he said.  Important to Markets  CMBS “conduits weren’t the only lender there, but they
were more important than in primary markets,” Levy said. Many
secondary markets are already suffering due to poor job and
economic growth, he said.  Uncertainty about potential U.S. bank losses from Europe’s
debt crisis is sapping confidence and halting sales dependent on
CMBS, particularly in smaller markets, according to  Michael Knott , managing director at Green Street. Real estate investment
won’t match levels seen in previous quarters of 2011 until
“some lasting peace” is reached in the euro zone, he said.  Among bigger cities, property deals rose in the third
quarter in  New York , while falling in San Francisco,  Los
Angeles ,  Boston ,  Chicago  and Washington, the major markets
considered to be the drivers of commercial real estate sales
volume, according to CoStar.  Manhattan Deals  The sales increase in New York was 1.1 percent, to $9.19
billion, CoStar data show. That was enough to be the largest
volume since the fourth quarter of 2007, when $10.3 billion of
property changed hands, part of an unprecedented surge of sales
fueled by readily available securitized debt.  “August’s unusually high volatility in the capital markets
helped to tenderize sellers more than scare off buyers” in New
York, said Doug Harmon, senior managing director of Eastdil
Secured LLC.  Harmon and his colleague Adam Spies brokered three of the
biggest single-building transactions of the quarter, as measured
by CoStar: a $980 million deal for a partial interest in 1633
Broadway, an office tower north of Times Square; a $920 million
deal for the Starrett-Lehigh Building in Chelsea; and the $719.5
million purchase of 200 Fifth Ave., an office building across
from Manhattan’s Madison Square Park in the Gramercy area.  “New York properties behave better in good times and
bad,” Harmon said in an e-mail. Manhattan real estate offers
more stability relative to other possible investments due to its
limited supply, minimal construction and its attractiveness to a
spectrum of global companies, he said.  Office ‘Headwinds’  New York isn’t immune to the pause in the markets.
Manhattan office prices were “virtually unchanged” in the four
months through September, Green Street reported Oct. 6. Demand
could face “headwinds” as Europe’s debt crisis and job cuts in
financial services, a key driver of office and residential
demand, take their toll, the company said.  In Washington, where government demand once made the city
seem recession-proof, property sales slid 8 percent to $3.5
billion in the third quarter, the third straight quarterly
decline since hitting their post-recession peak of $5.2 billion
in the last three months of 2010, according to CoStar.  A decline in job growth, along with the debate on the
federal debt ceiling, has caused some hesitation on the part of
buyers, said Kevin Thorpe, chief economist of real estate
brokerage Cassidy Turley. Washington has fallen to No. 5 in
employment growth among U.S. cities this year after being in the
top three for the prior two years, according to the company.  Back to Safety  “There has been a change in recent weeks and that change
is a shift back towards ‘core’ products,” Thorpe said. “We
were reaching a point where investors were getting increasingly
comfortable with buildings located out in the suburbs even with
a little more risk. Since then, it’s been a slow shift back
towards safety.”  Office markets with technology, social media and energy
firms will continue to see investor demand, said  Kenneth Rosen ,
chairman of the Fisher Center for Real Estate and Urban
Economics at the University of  California , Berkeley.  In San Francisco, transactions decreased 27 percent in the
third quarter from the previous three months, according to
CoStar. A bright spot was Silicon Valley, the technology center
south of the city that’s home to Facebook Inc. and Google Inc.,
said Todd Shaffer, senior vice president at the Santa Clara,
California-based broker Cornish & Carey Newmark Knight Frank.  Filling Vacant Space  A “fever” of property sales and leasing has reversed a
space glut in the valley that two years ago had 43 million
square feet (4 million square meters) of empty offices, Shaffer
said. Silicon Valley’s overall vacancy rate fell 5.7 percentage
points in the year through September to 15 percent, with office
markets in Mountain View and Cupertino showing rates below 6
percent, according to the broker.  Nationwide, office rents and occupancy rates climbed in the
third quarter from a year earlier, led by technology-heavy
cities, Reis Inc. reported earlier this month. Apartment leasing
also increased, while the gains in net occupied space slowed
from the previous quarter, according to the New York-based firm.  Among retail properties, regional shopping-mall vacancies
rose to 9.4 percent, the highest in at least a decade, Reis
said. Retail also led the decline in third-quarter sales, with
transactions falling to $8.2 billion from $15.7 billion in the
second quarter, when Blackstone’s Centro purchase boosted the
deal total, according to Real Capital.  “Assuming nothing changes, the European situation and the
U.S. fiscal situation stay in flux, you’re going to see
continued choppiness in real estate capital markets,” CBRE’s
Levy said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  