-- 
Company IOUs Fall for 14th Week in Longest Streak Since 2000

-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 
2011-10-20T15:16:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/company-ious-fall-for-14th-week-in-longest-streak-since-2000.html
The U.S. commercial paper market
fell for a 14th week, the longest streak in at least a decade,
as investors concerned that  Europe ’s sovereign crisis is
deepening cut holdings of financial issuers’ securities.  The seasonally adjusted amount of short-term company IOUs
fell by $17 billion to $949.3 billion on a seasonally adjusted
basis in the week ended Oct. 19, the  Federal Reserve  said today
on its website. That’s the lowest level since reaching $916.8
billion on Jan. 19, according to Fed data compiled by Bloomberg.  Money market funds , among the biggest buyers, are reluctant
to purchase financial commercial paper as European leaders
struggle to contain a fiscal crisis that threatens to infect
bank balance sheets, said Raymond Stone, an economist at Stone &
McCarthy Research Associates. U.S.-based financial firms led the
decline in short-term borrowing, falling $19.5 billion to $278.7
billion, Fed data show.  “In a world where credit is strained we are seeing loans
at banks generally increase and financial commercial paper
declining,” Stone, who is based in Princeton,  New Jersey , said
in a telephone interview. “It may be the issuers of financial
commercial paper are knocking at the doors of banks and taking
out loans instead,” a trend which is suggested by increases in
U.S. commercial and industrial loans, he said.  Commercial paper sold by non-U.S. banks rose $2.0 billion
on a seasonally adjusted basis, snapping six weeks of declines.  Corporations sell commercial paper to fund everyday
activities such as paying payroll and rent. The whole market’s
weekly decline marks the longest stretch since at least December
2000, according to the Fed data  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Parry in New York at 
 Jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  