-- 
Counties Coping With Slump Employ Fewer Workers Than in 2010, Survey Shows

-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 
2011-10-20T18:45:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/counties-in-u-s-employ-fewer-workers-than-in-2010-survey-shows.html
Most U.S. counties have fewer
employees this fiscal year than in 2010, as managers cut jobs to
cope with struggling local economies, a national survey shows.  Employment fell in 66 percent of counties responding this
month to a questionnaire, according to a report released today
by the Washington-based National Association of Counties. More
administrators imposed hiring freezes than fired workers, by 40
percent to 26 percent, the report shows.  Only about a third, 35 percent, said they passed balanced
2012 budgets with no anticipated shortfalls. Among those with
revenue that trailed spending, half blamed declines in state or
federal aid and about a third said receipts fell from property
or sales taxes or both.  “Counties have not seen any major upswings in the last two
or three years, so they’re making the tough decisions about how
they’re going to continue delivering services,” Jacqueline
Byers, the organization’s research director, said by telephone.
More than two years after the 18-month recession ended in June
2009, “local economies affecting county governments continue to
struggle toward recovery,” she said in the report.  Most of the counties, 64 percent, said their credit ratings
hadn’t changed as a result of budget-balancing actions, while a
quarter said their grades had been raised and 11 percent
reported cuts.  Local property-tax receipts will fall for the next two
years as assessments catch up with declines in market values,
according to a National League of Cities report last month. The
Washington-based organization also cited “the struggling
economy” that has depressed consumer purchases, curbing
collections from sales levies.  Employment by local governments has dropped 3.7 percent, or
535,000 jobs, from a September 2008 peak of 14.6 million,
according to U.S. Labor Department data compiled by Bloomberg.  The survey of counties drew on 233 responses from 38
states, the association said. It sent questionnaires to 2,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  