-- 
Crude Oil Declines as European Union Considers $1.3 Trillion Rescue Fund

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-10-20T20:22:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/crude-oil-decline-on-concern-european-leaders-may-postpone-debt-agreement.html
Crude oil dropped in  New York  as
European leaders considered unleashing 940 billion euros ($1.3
trillion) to tame the debt crisis, and  France  and  Germany  asked
officials to agree on plans next week.  Futures fell 0.9 percent as two people familiar with the
matter said Europe may combine temporary and permanent rescue
funds to deploy as much as 940 billion euros. Oil pared losses
after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  said in a joint statement they want governments
to agree on a “comprehensive and ambitious” plan by Oct. 26.  “The oil market is being driven by sentiment over the
European debt crisis,” said  David Greely , head of energy
research at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York. “The failure
to have a resolution and the uncertainty that’s brought is
having a major impact on the market.”  Crude oil for November delivery declined 81 cents to settle
at $85.30 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . November
futures expired today. December oil, the most-actively traded
contract, dropped 22 cents to $86.07.  Brent oil for December settlement rose $1.37, or 1.3
percent, to end the session at $109.76 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The spread between the
December Brent and Nymex crude contracts widened to $23.69 from
$22.10 yesterday.  Negotiations over pairing the temporary and permanent funds
as of mid-2012 accelerated this week after efforts to leverage
the temporary fund ran into European Central Bank opposition and
provoked a clash between Germany and France, said the two
people, who decline to be identified because a decision rests
with political leaders.  Summit Meetings  The dual-use option may break a deadlock that today led the
European Union to announce that an Oct. 23 summit will have to
be followed by another three days later. The 440 billion-euro
European Financial Stability Facility has already spent or
committed about 160 billion euros, including loans to  Greece 
which will run for up to 30 years.  “The market continues to move back and forth on the latest
headlines on the European debt situation,” said  John Kilduff , a
partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that
focuses on energy.  The EFSF may be able to offer loans to countries “before
they face difficulties raising funds” in bond markets, the
draft guidelines obtained by Bloomberg News show. The fund may
be able to grant credit lines amounting to 10 percent of a
country’s economy. Some legislators from Merkel’s coalition said
the changes may shift intolerable burdens to German taxpayers.  Moving Wildly  “We don’t know how the European debt crisis will work out,
so the market will move wildly on any small bit of news,” said
Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence Investment
Management in  St. Louis , which oversees $1.3 billion. “The
situation in  Europe  is every bit as serious as the conditions
just before the failure of Bear Stearns and  Lehman Brothers .”  The bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008 and the near-collapse of Bear Stearns Cos.
earlier that year helped usher in the global recession.  Oil advanced earlier after an unexpected expansion of
manufacturing in the Philadelphia region. The Federal Reserve
Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index increased to 8.7
from minus 17.5 last month, the biggest gain in 31 years.
Economists forecast minus 9.4 for the gauge, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Qaddafi’s Death  Libya’s  Muammar Qaddafi , whose dictatorship lasted 42
years, died after being captured by forces led by the Misrata
Military Council, the group said. Details will be announced
later today in a news conference in Misrata, the council said in
an e-mailed statement. Its troops led the assault on Qaddafi’s
hometown of Sirte and act independently from the interim
government, known as the National Transitional Council.  The NTC is struggling to unite the factions that challenged
the Qaddafi regime after protests in February were put down. The
Misrata Military Council issued its comments as NTC officials
gave their own statement in the eastern city of Benghazi, their
base during the conflict.  “Qaddafi’s death seems like the natural conclusion to the
events in  Libya ,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of research for
IAF Advisors in Houston.  Libyan output rose 55,000 barrels to 100,000 last month, a
Bloomberg News survey showed. Production in the North African
nation has tumbled from 1.585 million barrels a day in January,
the last month before an uprising against Qaddafi’s government.  “The death of Qaddafi probably won’t have much impact on
the market,” Greely said. “The market had already moved on and
is counting on the resumption of Libyan production.”  Libyan Production Outlook  Libyan production is set to reach 400,000 barrels a day in
the fourth quarter of 2011, with output closer to 600,000 at the
end of the year, the  International Energy Agency  said on Oct.
12.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 577,806
contracts as of 3:30 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 665,796
contracts yesterday, 3.9 percent lower than the average over the
last three months. Open interest was 1.41 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  