-- 
Default-Prone Project Bonds Paying 8% Yield Luring Investors: Muni Credit

-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   A n d r e a   R i q u i e r
-- 
2011-10-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/default-prone-project-bonds-paying-8-yield-luring-investors-muni-credit.html
Investors hunting higher yields are
turning to securities that make up 17 percent of municipal bond
sales while generating almost half the defaults.  Tax-exempt conduit bonds -- sold by governments for private
companies, hospitals and non-profits -- due in 10 years yielded
1.06 percentage points more than top-rated general-obligations
yesterday. That’s down from a one-year high of 1.34 percentage
points last month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors are ignoring the largest municipal-bond default
this year and speculation about a bankruptcy by  American
Airlines  parent  AMR Corp. (AMR) , a backer of conduits sold by U.S.
airports. They’re willing to take the risk for yields as high as
8 percent, said Tim Pynchon, who helps oversee $4 billion of
municipal bonds at Boston’s Pioneer Investment Management Inc.  “You’re being well-compensated for what are typically
well-thought-out projects,” said Pynchon. “From a value
standpoint, that sector is very interesting.”  Jefferson Parrish Hospital Service District No. 2 in
 Louisiana  sold $170 million of debt this week for East Jefferson
General Hospital, a 420-bed facility outside  New Orleans . A tax-
exempt security due in July 2041 rated BBB- by Standard &
Poor’s, one level above junk, was priced to yield 6.5 percent.  That translates into a 10 percent return for someone in the
35 percent income-tax bracket. Taxable Treasury bonds maturing
in 30 years yielded about 3.2 percent yesterday.  “There’s a lot of value in taxable-equivalent yield,”
said  John Miller , co-head of fixed-income at Chicago-based
Nuveen Asset Management, which supervises $100 billion.  Public Issuers  State and local governments issue tax-exempt bonds for non-
government borrowers such as airlines building airport
facilities or non-profit developers of senior housing. That
allows private entities to borrow at lower tax-exempt rates.  The government lends only its name to the bond sale and
doesn’t pledge any of its own revenue, which means the repayment
depends solely on the borrower, known as the obligor.  Conduits made up just 17 percent of the $2.3 trillion of
municipal bonds sold since 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Still, almost half of the 78 defaults this year have
been conduits, according to Matt Fabian, managing director with
the Concord, Massachusetts-based research firm Municipal Market
Advisors. Only one general-obligation bond defaulted, according
to Fabian: Brighton,  Alabama , a city of 2,945 near Birmingham.  Largest Default  The largest municipal default this year was for conduit
bonds of the Clare at Water Tower, a 53-story housing
development for retirees in  Chicago  with about $229 million of
long-term debt. It missed a Sept. 1 payment after occupancy
failed to meet expectations.  Bonds for the property, developed by the Franciscan Sisters
of Chicago Service Corp., were issued for Clare by the  Illinois 
State Finance Authority. The agency has financed 496 projects
worth $25 billion, according to its  website .  Conduits can include top-rated, junk and unrated bonds, so
investors have to research deals individually, Pynchon said.  “You need to do the analysis,” he said. “Particularly if
you’re talking about high yield -- a lot of times ratings aren’t
available.”  Each issue has its own revenue, security and legal
protections that can affect the ultimate payout and recovery for
holders.  “There is opportunity if you do your homework,” said
 Richard Ciccarone , managing director of McDonnell Investment
Management in  Oak Brook , Illinois. “Not all conduit issues are
risky.”  Bankruptcy Speculation  Bonds backed by AMR’s American Airlines for airport
facilities fell earlier this month on concern that the third-
largest U.S. carrier may be forced to seek  bankruptcy protection 
as it heads for its fourth consecutive annual loss.  A Chapter 11 filing “is certainly not our goal or our
preference,” Andy Backover, an American spokesman, said on Oct.
3, the day AMR’s shares plunged the most since 2001 on the
speculation.  An American-backed bond sold by Dallas-Fort Worth
International Airport traded at an average of about 81 cents on
the dollar on that day, down from about 98 cents Sept. 23.  Following is a description of pending sales of municipal
debt:  HOWARD COUNTY,  Maryland , with the third-highest U.S. median
household income, plans to sell about $194 million of general-
obligation bonds as soon as next week through competitive bid,
according to a preliminary official statement. The county issued
$160 million of debt in February and is selling again in part to
finance its April purchase of the Ascend One building in
Columbia, Maryland. The bonds are rated AAA, the highest from
 Standard & Poor’s . (Added Oct. 20)  MASSACHUSETTS SCHOOL BUILDING AUTHORITY, with $648 million
of general revenue last fiscal year, will sell $600 million of
senior sales-tax bonds as soon as next week, according to a
preliminary official statement. The bonds will fund local school
construction and repairs. Barclay’s Capital will lead a
syndicate of banks. (Added Oct. 20)  ILLINOIS, which approved the biggest tax increase in state
history to close a deficit this year, plans to sell $300 million
of Build Illinois sales-tax revenue bonds by competitive bid as
early as next week, according to a preliminary official
statement. The program will fund infrastructure, educational and
vocational projects and provide incentives for businesses that
plan to hire workers in the state. The bonds are rated AAA by
S&P, the top grade. (Added Oct. 19)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net 
Andrea Riquier in New York at 
 ariquier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  