-- 
Del Rivero Fired by Sacyr Board After CEO ‘Betrays’ Him on Repsol Strategy

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 
2011-10-21T13:20:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/del-rivero-fired-by-sacyr-after-ceo-betrays-him-over-repsol.html
Sacyr Vallehermoso SA (SYV) ’s board ousted
Chairman Luis Del Rivero after he led the construction company
into a battle with  Repsol YPF SA (REP) , its biggest investment and
 Spain ’s largest oil company.  Del Rivero, 62, will be replaced by Chief Executive Officer
Manuel Manrique, the company said in a statement yesterday.
Demetrio Carceller, Sacyr’s biggest shareholder, will join Juan Abello as co-vice chairman.  “It was an ‘et tu Brute’ moment,” said Lorenzo Bernaldo
de Quiros, an economist and former adviser to the Spanish
government. “Manrique has betrayed him.”  The board turned on Del Rivero after he forged an alliance
with  Petroleos Mexicanos  to wring more dividend payments and
earnings from Repsol. Sacyr is battling to shore up its finances
and pay back a 4.9 billion-euro ($6.7 billion) loan that
financed its 20 percent stake in the  oil company .  Repsol’s shares had risen 13 percent in the four days after
the Aug. 29 announcement of the accord with the Mexican state
oil company Petroleos Mexicanos, known as Pemex, their biggest
four-day gain in more than two years.  Today they dropped as much as 3.4 percent in Madrid as the
Stoxx 600 Oil & Gas index rose 1.1 percent. The Pemex deal is
likely to be dissolved and Manrique will look to sell part of
Sacyr’s Repsol stake to ease the refinancing of its loan,
Bernaldo de Quiros said after speaking to a board member. Twenty
percent of Repsol is worth about 5.2 billion euros.  Sacyr Shares Climb  Manrique and Carceller met today with Chairman Antonio Brufau of Repsol, at the oil company’s  Madrid  headquarters,
Repsol spokesman Kristian Rix said. He declined to give details
of what was discussed.  Sacyr shares climbed 2.3 percent to 5.557 euros as of 3:04
p.m. in Madrid.  Shareholders including Novacaixagalicia, the Spanish
savings bank that owns 8.75 percent of Sacyr, urged Del Rivero
to back down from the confrontation, arguing that would increase
his chances of boosting dividend income.  The accord with Pemex aimed to boost earnings, raise the
Repsol share price, and to install a chief executive officer to
diluteBrufau’s power at the company, where he was also CEO.  Repsol Dividend  Del Rivero had been calling on Brufau to raise the Repsol
dividend since a series of press interviews in December 2009. In
an interview in El Mundo, he also urged the Repsol chairman to
divest assets including a 30 percent holding in a Brazilian
refinery and sell a stake in the company’s oil discoveries in
the country.  “I’m just a small-time capitalist and that can lead to
clashes with some people,” he told the newspaper.  The assault on Repsol was just the latest in a series of
raids Sacyr carried out under Del Rivero.  He announced a plan to build a 3 percent stake in Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA in November 2004, months after the
Socialist government of Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero came to
power. BBVA rejected his request for a board seat even though
then-Finance Minister Pedro Solbes said the plan “makes some
sense.”  Del Rivero dropped his plan the following February and
booked a gain of 149 million euros from selling options and
shares in the lender.  He also abandoned a bid to take over French builder Eiffage
SA in April 2008 after amassing a 33 percent stake. Minority
shareholders complained that Del Rivero bent the rules that
should have forced a formal takeover offer and a French
securities regulator found Del Rivero guilty of colluding with
other investors to dodge the takeover rules.  Yesterday, Del Rivero, who holds 13 percent of Sacyr,
announced a pact with two other shareholders to vote as a block
controlling 27 percent of the company in a last-ditch attempt to
shore up his position. It wasn’t enough.  “In his desperation to save his position he’s created a
series of enemies and they have ended up destroying him,” said
Bernaldo de Quiros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  