-- 
Dell Falls on Concern Thai Floods May Disrupt Parts Supply

-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 
2011-10-20T17:15:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/dell-falls-amid-concern-floods-in-thailand-will-disrupt-its-parts-supply.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  shares fell the most in
two months amid concerns raised by one of its suppliers,  Western
Digital Corp. (WDC) , that the worst flooding in Thailand in five
decades may hamper production for months.  Dell, the third-largest personal-computer maker, dropped 94
cents to $14.96 at 1:11 p.m. in New York. Earlier, the shares
slipped as much as 7.6 percent, the biggest intraday drop since
Aug. 17. The stock had gained 17 percent this year before today.  Western Digital, which makes disk drives, has shut two
factories in Thailand, joining such companies as Honda Motor Co.
and  Canon Inc. (7751)  that have closed about 1,000 facilities in the
Asian nation ravaged by rising waters. Dell gets more than 50
percent of its sales from personal computers, servers and
storage that are based on hard-disk drives, said  Brian Marshall ,
an analyst at ISI Group.  “Fears are starting to intensify as we get more clarity,”
Marshall said. He has a neutral rating on Dell shares and said
he doesn’t own any. “It could be a multiquarter event.”  On a conference call yesterday, Western Digital Chief
Executive Officer John Coyne said it may take several quarters
for the Irvine, California-based company to resume normal
production. Dell, based in  Round Rock , Texas, is one of Western
Digital’s biggest customers, according to supply-chain data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Minimal Impact’  Dell expects “only minimal impact” on its third quarter,
which ends Oct. 31, and is working with suppliers to mitigate
the affect on the fourth quarter, said David Frink, a spokesman
for the company.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the world’s largest maker of personal
computers, fell 1.9 percent to $24.50. The Palo Alto,
California-based company gets about 44 percent of its sales from
devices that feature hard disks, Marshall said.  “This is a significant, multiquarter supply-chain
disruption that could have a negative impact to several
companies and sectors,” according to a Bloomberg supply-chain
analysis. The report cited Hewlett-Packard, Dell, Lenovo Group
Ltd., EMC Corp. and Acer Inc., along with their suppliers, as
some companies that may be affected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 