-- 
Deutsche Boerse, NYSE Said to Defend Deal at Hearing Next Week

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-10-20T17:07:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/deutsche-boerse-nyse-said-to-defend-deal-at-hearing-next-week.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and NYSE Euronext
will respond to European Union concerns about their plan to
create the world’s largest exchange at a hearing next week,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  The two exchanges will lay out reasons why the deal should
go ahead at a hearing on Oct. 27 and 28 in Brussels, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the hearing is
private. The companies will address allegations that the merger
would harm competition for derivatives trading, clearing and
index licensing listed in an EU statement of objections this
month, three people familiar with the review said last week.  EU regulators are probing the merger, which would put more
than 90 percent of the region’s exchange-traded derivatives
market and about 30 percent of European stock trading in the
hands of one organization. The regulator has cited concerns over
reduced innovation in derivatives products and technology.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer 
said the companies would “know where we stand a lot more by the
end of this month” following the hearing, according to a
transcript of a video message to employees filed with U.S.
securities regulators this month.  Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the European Commission,
James Dunseath, a spokesman for NYSE Euronext in London, and
Naomi Kim, a spokeswoman for  Deutsche Boerse  in  New York ,
declined to comment on the date for the hearing.  The European Commission can require companies to change
their behavior or to sell off units to eliminate possible
competition concerns. While it has a deadline of Dec. 13 to rule
on the deal, the review could be extended.  To contact the reporters on this story: Aoife White in Brussels
at   awhite62@bloomberg.net . 