-- 
Dexia Agrees on Terms for Sales of French and Belgian Units

-- B y   S t e p h e n   T a y l o r
-- 
2011-10-20T09:31:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/dexia-agrees-on-terms-for-sales-of-french-and-belgian-units-to-state-firms.html
Dexia SA (DEXB)  completed agreements to
sell its Belgian banking unit and French municipal-lending
division to state-owned companies, moving closer to a full
breakup as part of plans to rescue the lender.  Dexia Bank Belgium will be sold for 4 billion euros ($5.5
billion) to the Societe Federale de Participations et
d’Investissement, or SFPI, acting on behalf of the Belgian
state, Dexia said today in an e-mailed statement. The company
will sell the French municipal-lending unit to Caisse des Depots
et Consignations and  La Poste .  In France, “it’s cherry-picking: The buyers are taking the
assets, the know-how, but they don’t take the risk,” said Dirk
Peeters, a Brussels-based analyst at KBC Securities who has a
“hold” rating on Dexia.  Belgium and  France  are dismantling the firm, once the
world’s leading lender to municipalities, after the company
could no longer fund itself as the sovereign-debt crisis dried
up short-term financing. The two countries, along with
Luxembourg, agreed to provide a 90 billion-euro, 10-year
guarantee to cover Dexia’s funding needs on Oct. 9.  Rescuing Dexia has become critical to preventing contagion
in the region’s banking industry. Dexia’s balance sheet, with
total assets of about 518 billion euros at the end of June, is
about the size of the entire banking system in  Greece  and larger
than the combined assets of financial institutions bailed out in
Ireland in the last 2 1/2 years.  Dexia slipped 0.3 percent to 61 cents at 11:00 a.m. in
Brussels trading, giving the company a market value of 1.2
billion euros.  Other Asset Sales  The proceeds of the sale of Dexia Bank  Belgium  will be
principally allocated to the early repayment of loans granted by
Dexia Bank Belgium to its related companies, Dexia SA and Dexia
Credit Local.  Intra-group financing granted by Dexia Bank Belgium to
other group entities will be maintained and gradually reduced
according to the terms of the sale agreement, the company said.  Caisse des Depots, the manager of France’s principal state
retirement funds, will own 65 percent of the French municipal
business and La Poste 5 percent, Dexia said.  The company said the two sales would reduce its balance
sheet by a total of 209 billion euros as of June 30, 2011. It
will reduce the bank’s holdings of sovereign debt in  Portugal ,
Ireland,  Italy , Greece and  Spain  to 12 billion euros from 21
billion euros, the firm said.  Dexia will also study selling its DenizBank unit in  Turkey ,
its 50 percent holding in RBC Dexia Investor Services and Dexia
Asset Management, the company said.  Deixa Chief Executive Officer Pierre Mariani, 55, told  Les
Echos  in an interview today that purchasers for other units
being sold will be chosen by the end of the year. Mariani told
the newspaper he’ll consider his role to be over once such
agreements have been reached.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Taylor in Paris at 
 staylor8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  