-- 
Doctors Reluctant to Treat Unvaccinated Children, Study Shows

-- B y   C a r o l   E i s e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-20T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/doctors-reluctant-to-treat-unvaccinated-children-study-shows.html
More than one fifth of pediatricians
stopped treating children whose parents refused to have them
vaccinated, according to an online survey of doctors in nine
U.S. states.  Such denials run counter to recommendations from the
 American Academy  of Pediatrics and should prompt a discussion
about how doctors handle the issue, authors of the survey said
in a presentation to the 49th Annual Meeting of the  Infectious
Diseases Society of America  in  Boston .  “Pediatricians are starting to recognize that having
unimmunized patients in their practice puts other patients at
risk when they congregate in the waiting room,” said
Christopher Harrison, director of the infectious disease
research laboratory at Children’s Mercy Hospitals and Clinics in
Kansas City,  Missouri , in a telephone interview. “They’re
conflicted and the data shows this.”  The vaccines parents most frequently refused or delayed
were MMR shots against measles, mumps and rubella given to
children about age 1; the HPV or human papilloma vaccine given
to adolescent girls to prevent cervical cancer; and influenza
shots given to children of all ages, according to an online
survey of 909 pediatricians in nine states in the U.S. Midwest.  Doctors reported that parents’ most-common reason was fear
of autism linked to a vaccine preservative and concerns about
side effects. More than 95 percent of the physicians said they
tried to educate families about the risks and benefits.  Discharged Patients  Overall, 21 percent of pediatricians said they discharged
families who continued to refuse to vaccinate children, said 
Thomas Tryon, lead author and associate professor of pediatrics
at the University of Missouri- Kansas City  School of Medicine.  Doctors’ practices varied dramatically by state, however.
Minnesota doctors, who saw the highest number of families
refusing to vaccinate their children, discharged them less than
1 percent of the time. In contrast, Iowa doctors saw the lowest
number of families refusing vaccines, but reported discharging
them 38 percent of the time, the survey found.  “The goal would be to develop state specific programs to
support clinicians who administer the vaccines and to educate
the public,” said Harrison.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Eisenberg in Washington at 
 ceisenberg1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  