-- 
Dutch Pensions May Be Cut as Rates Fall; Would Be ABP’s First Since 1984

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-10-20T12:23:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/dutch-pensions-may-be-cut-as-rates-fall-would-be-abp-s-first-since-1984.html
Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP, the
biggest Dutch retirement fund, said it may cut pension payouts
for the first time since 1984 as lower interest rates push
pension funds’ capital buffers below regulatory thresholds.  ABP and Pensioenfonds Zorg en Welzijn, which together
manage 338 billion euros ($464 billion), both said today that
their obligations exceed their assets in the wake of  Europe ’s
debt crisis, while the state-mandated interest rate used to
calculate their payout requirements fell.  ABP, one of the world’s three biggest pension funds, said
its coverage ratio, or assets relative to future benefit
payments, fell to 90 percent at the end of September from 112
percent at the end of June. PFZW’s ratio declined to 91 percent
from 110 percent. Dutch pension funds aren’t allowed to raise
payouts when the ratio falls below 105 percent, and may need to
raise premiums to recover.  “Unless there is a major improvement in the situation
before the end of the year, it may mean in the worst case that
current and accrued pensions will have to be reduced,” Peter Borgdorff, managing director of Zeist, Netherlands-based PFZW,
said in a statement. It won’t be possible to increase pensions
next year, he said.  The weak outlook for the global economy means central banks
may be a long way from tightening monetary policy. Low interest
rates have “serious consequences for the financial position of
Dutch pension funds,” Borgdorff said.  First Since 1984  “As long as European leaders shirk their responsibility
for arriving at a definitive answer to the European debt crisis,
it will not be possible for Dutch pension funds to start showing
sufficient recovery,” he said.  ABP vice-chairman Joop van Lunteren also said a pension cut
is getting closer unless the coverage ratio rapidly improves.
That would be the first reduction for ABP since 1984, when
payouts for government workers were reduced by 3 percent in line
with a wage cut, Jos van Dijk, a spokeswoman for the Heerlen-
based fund, said today.  ABP said it will announce any further steps in the new
year, based on the situation as of Dec. 31.  Dutch pension funds are obliged to calculate their
obligations on the basis of an  interest-rate  term structure
defined by the Dutch central bank. A 1-percentage-point drop in
that rate pushes down the coverage ratio by 16 or 17 percentage
points, according to ABP’s Van Dijk.  Stock-Market Losses  Funds have asked the Dutch government to reconsider the
system to make them less dependent on daily interest-rate moves.  ABP’s obligations increased by 43 billion euros in the
third quarter as the rate used declined by 1 percentage point.
PFZW said a 1.1 percentage-point drop in the 30-year swap rate
in Europe to 2.7 percent hurt its coverage ratio by about 20
percentage points.  ABP’s assets declined by 2.9 percent to 235 billion euros
in the third quarter, mainly as a result of losses on equity
investments. PFZW’s investments rose 0.6 percent to 103 billion
euros in the same period.  About 5.5 million Dutch workers with pension savings
participate in one of the country’s pension funds, which had
total assets of 750 billion euros at the end of the second
quarter, according to the nation’s central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Martijn van der Starre at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net  