-- 
Tea Party and Teachers’ Union Make Strange Brew: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-10-20T23:00:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/tea-party-and-teachers-union-make-strange-brew-jonathan-alter.html
The age-old tension between federal
authority and states’ rights is back in a big way in this year’s
presidential campaign, with Republican candidates taking the
let-the-states-handle-it position on everything from
environmental regulation to health-care reform.  Now President Barack Obama’s education policy, a rare
bipartisan winner, may also be headed back to the states, which
were collectively responsible in recent years for dumbing down
standards, ignoring obvious failure and otherwise jeopardizing
the whole future of the country.  With the support of Republicans, Obama over the past three
years has moved aggressively to set high education standards
from  Washington  and let states and localities figure out how to
meet them. But now the Tea Party is pushing Republicans to
abolish the Department of Education and resist any federal
“intrusions” into education.  Letting the “laboratories of democracy” take the lead makes
sense in certain areas, like when states use tax breaks to
compete for foreign investment. But it’s more often a green
light for a race to the bottom. Texas Governor  Rick Perry ’s
radical idea of abolishing the Environmental Protection Agency
(founded under President  Richard Nixon ) in favor of state
agencies would mean states competing to allow the most
pollution.  Bursts of unneeded federalism are usually a Republican
malady. But on education, a powerful Democratic Party interest
group is also embracing the states’ rights argument made famous
by John C. Calhoun in the antebellum South.  Bizarre Bedfellows  Talk about bizarre bedfellows. The  National Education
Association , the country’s largest teachers’ union, and the  Tea
Party  are both arguing against federal accountability standards
in education.  The NEA’s position is no surprise. Although its liberal
members support federal mandates for special education,
desegregation and a hundred other things, God forbid they should
be judged by federal standards on the little matter of whether
their students are actually learning anything. The union prefers
the status quo, where they use their muscle and sophistication
to turn every state and local accountability effort into mush.  With the help of hidebound union leaders, superintendents
and bureaucrats who care more about their privileges than kids,
17 states have actually lowered standards in recent years to
make student test scores look better. Meanwhile, about 90
percent of local school districts that receive Title I aid
(intended to help schools that have a high percentage of low-
income students) have figured out how to game the system to
continue getting funding from Washington while doing virtually
nothing to improve their worst schools.  Anti-Mandate Mood  As the Senate considers a bill that would overhaul
President  George W. Bush ’s failed No Child Left Behind Act, an
anti-mandate mood has taken over. The individual mandate
requiring the uninsured to buy health-care coverage under the
Affordable Care Act is now such political poison that the idea
of Washington requiring anything from anybody is anathema on the
right.  So now the pending education bill contains no requirement
that states implement rigorous teacher and principal evaluation
systems (a must for improving schools). And it would attach
almost no other strings to federal aid beyond the nebulous
standard of “continuous improvement.” Where else but in the
American education system could moving from an F to a D on a
self-graded exam be seen as success?  Ideology Over Experience  Even Republican Senator  Lamar Alexander  of  Tennessee , who
understood the importance of accountability when he was
secretary of education 20 years ago, is now saying that moving
away from guaranteed job security for teachers and toward
performance standards should be voluntary. He must know that
this approach has been shown countless times to have no effect.
For Alexander and other Republicans who have been saying
sensible things on education for years, ideology is now trumping
their own experience as the Tea Party’s influence grows.  But look on the bright side: Today’s congressional
dysfunction suggests that the odds are decent that the whole
bill fails.  That means Education Secretary  Arne Duncan  can move forward
with his announced plan to provide waivers to states that want
to get out from under unrealistic NCLB requirements, especially
the demand that every student be proficient in reading and math
by 2014. These waivers are expected to go mostly to states that
have already proved they’re at the forefront of accountability
as part of Obama’s terrific Race to the Top program, the federal
competition for grant money that drove reform across the
country.  The Next Level  Duncan told me this week that although the official title
of the waiver program is “Regulatory Flexibility,” he knows
he’ll be judged by how much the waiver process builds on Race to
the Top to expand accountability.  He says he told state education officials, “This is an
opportunity to take reform to the next level -- not just to
check the boxes. We’re going to say, ‘Here’s where you’re
hitting the mark, here’s where you’re missing and here’s where
you can improve.’ We have no choice but to withhold the waivers
if they fail.”  We’ll see if Obama and Duncan have the fortitude to follow
up their strong work in education by sailing directly into a
stiff anti-mandate headwind. Their legacy -- and American
competitiveness -- will depend on it.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 