-- 
Health Rules Prod U.S. Hospitals to Form Networks for Care to Trim Costs

-- B y   C a r o l   E i s e n b e r g   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-10-20T20:12:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/health-rules-prod-u-s-hospitals-to-form-networks-for-care-to-trim-costs.html
Hospital chains such as  Community
Health Systems Inc. (CYH)  may get as much as $1.9 billion in bonuses
by forming joint ventures to improve care and cut medical costs
under regulations released by the Obama administration.  The  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services issued
final rules today for so-called accountable care organizations
for the elderly and disabled, a centerpiece of the health-care
law designed to save as much as $940 million in three years.
Savings would be shared between providers and the government.  Participants can keep more savings after reaching targets,
and will need to meet about half as many quality measures as
first outlined in March. The delayed  rule  marks a victory for
hospitals, clinics and large doctors’ practices that have
lobbied to alter draft regulations they viewed as too burdensome
and financially risky.  “We heard loud and clear that the proposed rules didn’t
create a strong business case, and we felt those comments were
credible,” said  Jonathan Blum , director of Medicare. “We’ve
worked hard to adjust the financial model.”  The government projected as many as 270 organizations would
participate in the program aiming to coordinate care for large
groups of Medicare patients. The government said in its
regulatory filing that it “made significant modifications to
reduce burden and cost” for participants, including increased
potential bonuses and letting hospitals and doctors participate
without risk of financial loss.  Insurer Concern  “The new rule is an easier pill to swallow, but still
difficult for most systems to fully digest,” said  Dan Mendelson , chief executive officer of Avalere Health LLC. “ACOs
will get to keep more of the upside profits from effective cost
control --including savings from reduced re-hospitalizations --
and there are fewer quality metrics and many of the industry’s
legal concerns appear to have been addressed.”  Taxpayers may lose money on the program. The government
said in its regulatory filing that in “extreme scenarios,” the
effort could cost Medicare as much as $1.1 billion in its first
three years, or yield as much as $2 billion in savings.  Physician-owned groups and rural providers will also be
able to get $3.5 million in financial support to make upfront
investments in information technology and staff. The payments
would be recovered from any future savings the organization
achieves.  Quality Standards  An ACO’s potential reward will depend on its performance on
almost three dozen quality standards. Other changes include a
flexible start date in 2012, providing a list of likely patients
up front and expanding participation to include rural health
clinics and organizations where specialists provide primary
care. Health-care providers won’t be required to pay back the
government if they don’t hit savings targets.  In its filing, Medicare rebutted a study by the American
Hospital Association that found start-up costs for accountable
care groups could be as much as $11.6 million. The association
conducted its study before the government had proposed rules for
the organizations, regulators said.  A 2008 study by the Government Accountability Office found
that physician groups participating in an earlier Medicare
experiment in coordinated care spent about $555,000 to start up
and had about $1.2 million in annual operating costs. The GAO
study is a better predictor of costs for the accountable care
program, regulators said.  Voluntary Program  Congress declared participation in the Medicare ACO program
to be voluntary, making it important to design the initiative to
appeal to providers while trying to ensure patient care wasn’t
sacrificed to meet savings targets.  Thomas Scully, who managed Medicare under  George W. Bush 
and is senior counsel at Alston & Bird LLP, said Medicare
officials “did their level best to respond to the criticisms
and get the thing rolling. I think there’s still plenty of
interest out there.”  Blair Childs, senior vice president at Premier, an alliance
of 2,700 not-for-profit hospital systems, said many would pursue
joint ventures because of the simpler federal requirements and
reduced risk in the rule. “I think we’re going to see a lot of
systems step up and do this,” he said.  The final rules make government antitrust reviews
voluntary, a change from the original agreement between the
 Justice Department  and the Federal Trade Commission issued in
March. The first accord said any physicians’ group with more
than 30 percent market share in its local area was required to
submit to some form of review. The final agreement keeps the
original proposal’s provision that any group with 30 percent or
less market share and approved as an ACO by Medicare will be
considered legal.  Hospitals Unsure  Trade groups for hospitals said the change makes the
ventures more appealing.     Still, “it remains to be seen how many
hospitals will find these changes to be motivating enough to
enter the program,” said Linda Fishman, senior vice president
for policy for the American Hospital Association in  Chicago .  Insurers and employers criticized the change, saying it
could lead to higher health costs.  “Doing away with the mandatory review process raises
concerns that provider market power may not be scrutinized
sufficiently,” said  Karen Ignagni , president and CEO
of America’s Health Insurance Plans in Washington.  Efficiency Model  The program is modeled after integrated health systems such
as the  Cleveland Clinic  that deliver more efficient care. Those
providers panned the proposed rules as overly prescriptive.  Hospitals complained that setting up the joint ventures as
the government originally envisioned would have required as much
as $11.6 million in initial investments for a 200-bed hospital.  Investor-owned hospital systems, represented by the
Federation of American Hospitals, had criticized requiring
antitrust reviews before companies could participate, saying it
would be “a significant deterrent” to participation.  The Obama administration considers the ventures essential to
reducing the growth of spending for the federal health insurance
program, which accounts for 15 percent of the U.S. budget and is
projected to increase with the retirement of  Baby Boomers  and
increased use of medical services.  The government would waive some antifraud statutes for
qualifying groups, including laws that forbid doctors from
referring patients only to hospitals and other providers with
which they have financial stakes.  Insurance groups, among other critics, are concerned the
creation of market providers that dominate local markets could
suppress competition and drive up costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Eisenberg in  Washington  at 
 Ceisenberg1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
abettelheim@bloomberg. 