-- 
Heating Oil Gains as Supplies Fall, Cooler Weather Forecast

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-10-20T19:46:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/heating-oil-gains-as-supplies-fall-cooler-weather-forecast.html
Heating oil rose, outperforming
crude oil and gasoline, as distillate supplies slid to a 13-week
low and cooler weather was forecast, indicating greater demand
for heating fuel.  Temperatures from the Midwest to the Northeast will be
lower than normal from Oct. 25 to Nov. 2, according to the
 National Weather Service ’s  Climate Prediction Center . Supplies
of heating oil and diesel decreased last week to the lowest
level since July 15, the Energy Department reported yesterday.  “Heating oil is being driven by forecasts of colder
weather in the Northeast and colder weather coming into  Europe 
the next few weeks,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC in Houston. “And there was a significant draw in
distillate stocks last week.”  November-delivery heating oil gained 4.89 cents, or 1.6
percent, to settle at $3.0301 a gallon on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange. It was the highest settlement this week.  Heating oil’s premium over gasoline rose to 35.46 cents
from 30.97 cents yesterday, the largest gap since May 10.
Heating oil has gained 8.4 percent in October, compared with a
1.9 percent increase for gasoline and 7.7 percent advance in
crude oil on the Nymex.  “We had a huge decline in distillate stocks and distillate
demand is up against a year ago,” said Ray Carbone, president
of Paramount Options Inc. in New York and a broker at the  New
York Mercantile Exchange .  Distillate Inventories  Distillate inventories dropped 4.27 million barrels last
week to 149.7 million, the largest decline since Nov. 5,
according to department data. Colder weather typically increases
consumption of heating oil.  Demand for industrial, trucking and home-heating fuels rose
2.8 percent to 4.18 million barrels a day, the most since March.  Gasoline deliveries to wholesalers decreased 4.6 percent to
the lowest level since February, according to department data.  “Without consumer demand, this is not a  bull market ,”
said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in
New York. “The market is recognizing that physical demand is
weak.”  Gasoline for November delivery rose 0.4 cent to settle at
$2.6755 a gallon on the exchange. Prices touched $2.6115, the
lowest intraday level since Oct. 7.  Crude oil for November delivery on the Nymex dropped 81
cents to $85.30. The November contract expired today.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, was
unchanged at $3.474 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  