-- 
ECB Said to Weigh Bigger Loans for Banks Revealing More on Loan Collateral

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-10-21T08:28:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/ecb-said-to-weigh-bigger-loans-for-banks-revealing-more-on-loan-collateral.html
The  European Central Bank  may lend
more money against asset-backed bonds if issuers provide
additional information about the loans underpinning the
securities, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Banks can borrow money from the  ECB ’s liquidity facility by
posting collateral, with a discount applied depending on its
perceived safety. The bank’s Eurosystem Risk Management
Committee is discussing lowering the reduction on asset-backed
bonds from the 16 percent levied now, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private.  The proposed change is part of a broader ECB initiative to
encourage banks to improve transparency in asset-backed bonds
they sell to investors and boost confidence in a market blamed
for worsening the credit crisis in 2007. The Frankfurt-based
lender also said last year that it was seeking ways to control
the quality of the assets it takes in as collateral for loans to
financial institutions.  “The ECB loan-level data project will enhance transparency
and standardization on the collateral, so that’s welcome,” said
Paolo Binarelli, a  fund manager  at P&G SGR Alternative
Investments SpA in  Rome , which oversees 1 billion euros ($1.4
billion) of assets. “The key point is that the cost of
disclosing that information mustn’t be too high.”  Niels Buenemann, a spokesman for the ECB in  Frankfurt ,
declined to comment.  Subprime Crisis  The seizing-up of the market for bonds backed by U.S.
subprime mortgages four years ago was one of the triggers for
the worst credit crunch in generations and prompted investors to
shun hard-to-value securities. Sales of asset-backed bonds
remain depressed in  Europe , and the ECB hopes that forcing banks
to give more information about the deals will help re-ignite
issuance.  Financial institutions issued 245 billion euros of asset-
backed debt this year, compared with 510 billion euros the year
before the subprime meltdown, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Of this year’s total, 66.5 billion euros, or 27
percent, of the bonds were sold to investors, with the rest
retained for loan collateral and other purposes, JPMorgan Chase
& Co data show.  The ECB is considering ways to improve disclosure in the
asset-backed  securities market  at a time when European
government ministers meet in Brussels to try and find a solution
to the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  Government Bonds   The ECB currently applies a discount of as much as much as
10.5 percent on fixed-rate government bonds it takes in as loan
collateral and up to 39.5 percent for corporate securities.  The ECB committee will propose the reduced rate for asset-
backed securities at a meeting in November, after which the
board will discuss the plan, said the person with knowledge of
the talks. The central bank already aims to solicit more
information about the underlying loans packaged into bonds, and
the lower discounts would be given in return for an additional
level of disclosure on top of that, the person said.  The ECB is planning a series of  presentations  about the
loan-level data program as a whole starting in Paris today,
according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  