-- 
ECB Said to Weigh Increasing Loans to Banks Revealing More on Collateral

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-10-20T15:10:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/ecb-said-to-weigh-increasing-loans-to-banks-revealing-more-on-collateral.html
The  European Central Bank  is
considering lending more money against asset-backed securities
where issuers provide additional information about the loans
securing the bonds, said a person familiar with the matter.  Banks can borrow money from the  ECB ’s liquidity facility by
posting collateral with a discount applied depending on its
perceived safety. The bank’s Eurosystem Risk Management
Committee is discussing lowering the reduction on asset-backed
bonds from the 16 percent levied now, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private.  The proposed change is part of a broader ECB initiative to
encourage banks to improve transparency in asset-backed bonds
they sell to investors and boost confidence in a market blamed
for worsening the credit crisis in 2007. The Frankfurt-based
lender also said in April 2010 that it was seeking ways to
control the quality of the assets it takes in as collateral for
loans to financial institutions.  “The ECB loan-level data project will enhance transparency
and standardization on the collateral, so that’s welcome,” said
Paolo Binarelli, a  fund manager  at P&G SGR Alternative
Investments SpA in  Rome , which oversees 1 billion euros ($1.4
billion) of assets. “The key point is that the cost of
disclosing that information mustn’t be too high.”  Niels Buenemann, a spokesman for the ECB in  Frankfurt ,
declined to comment.  The ECB committee will decide on the reduced discounts for
loan collateral at a meeting in November, after which the board
will discuss the plan, said the person with knowledge of the
talks. The central bank already aims to solicit more information
about the underlying loans packaged into bonds, and the lower
discounts would be given in return for an additional level of
disclosure on top of that, the person said.  The ECB is planning a series of  presentations  about the
loan-level data program as a whole starting in Paris tomorrow,
according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  