-- 
Medtronic’s Stent Eases Erectile Dysfunction When Drugs Fail

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-10-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/medtronic-stent-may-help-erectile-dysfunction-when-drugs-fail.html
Men with erectile dysfunction caused
by clogged arteries leading to the penis may be helped by
 Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ’s drug-coated stent, a device more commonly
associated with treating heart disease.  The stent is safe and improves erectile function in men who
don’t respond to conventional therapy such as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s
Viagra,  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s Levitra and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Cialis,
according to a study released yesterday at the annual meeting
for Vascular Interventional Advances in  Las Vegas . The clinical
trial is the first to test stents for treating impotence in men
who don’t respond to drug therapy, researchers said.  The study found 68 percent improvement in erectile function
after three months in 30 men with an average age of 60 who were
implanted with the stents. Their impotence was caused by
narrowed pudendal arteries in the pelvis. There were no issues
such as clots or the need for surgery one month after treatment
in the study funded by Minneapolis-based Medtronic.  “This isn’t a panacea for erectile dysfunction,” said
Jason Rogers, director of interventional cardiology at the
University of California Davis Medical Center in  Sacramento .
“We set out to show this could be done and it didn’t hurt
people. It was a first-in-man trial and the fact that it was
feasible and improved blood flow is amazing. This is the birth
of a whole new approach to erectile dysfunction.”  Patient Population  Thirty million men in the U.S. and more than 300 million
worldwide suffer from  erectile dysfunction . The majority of the
cases stem from vascular problems, including insufficient blood
from the arteries, studies show.  Mesh stents made by Medtronic and rivals including Natick,
Massachusetts-based Boston Scientific Corp. are routinely used
to prop open diseased arteries to the heart. As many as 70
percent of men with  heart disease  also report problems achieving
an erection, Rogers said.  While drugs such as Viagra, Levitra and Cialis help many
men, as much as half eventually stop taking the medicine because
of inadequate response or side effects, Rogers said. The few
alternatives include penile injections and prostheses.  Viagra generated $1.9 billion for Pfizer in 2010, while
Lilly’s Cialis had $1.7 billion in sales and Levitra produced
revenue of $569 million for Bayer, according to Bloomberg data.  Some doctors tested balloon angioplasty to clear clogged
arteries in the pelvis in the 1980s to treat impotence, though
their results were never systematically studied or published,
Rogers said. Little progress was made in the following three
decades, he said in a telephone interview.  Sexual Improvement  In the study released at the medical meeting, a sexual
encounter profile showed a significant improvement in
intercourse, while ultrasound exams found increased blood flow
to the penis. The men reported a 10 point improvement on a 30
point international index of erectile function, the main test
used to evaluate new treatments.  The researchers didn’t include information from eight
patients. Three weren’t available three months after the
procedure and five had the stents implanted outside the main
arteries targeted in the trial.  While the results are promising, more work must be done to
confirm the safety and benefit of the approach, Rogers said.
Medtronic is working on a second study, called Impasse,
involving 350 men.  “Achieving a good erection requires a variety of vascular
components to work well, including a good flow of blood to the
penis through the arteries,” Rogers said. While drugs like
Viagra relax the spongy tissue to allow the blood to enter, “if
you don’t have good inflow into the penis, it doesn’t matter how
much that tissue relaxes, you don’t have a good erection,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  