-- 
Medvedev Makes First Facebook Post to Garner Support Before Duma Vote

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-10-20T17:54:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/medvedev-makes-first-facebook-post-to-garner-support-before-russian-vote.html
President  Dmitry Medvedev , who plans
to swap jobs with Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  next year, has
joined Facebook Inc. to drum up support as he leads Russia’s
ruling party into elections.  Medvedev, who has about 600,000 followers on Twitter Inc.
and posts on the LiveJournal blogging site, may also join
VKontakte, a Russian social network, his spokeswoman Natalya Timakova said today. He will use Facebook to discuss national
events as well as his own initiatives as Russia prepares for
parliamentary elections, she added.  “This is to attract a broader spectrum of people,”
Timakova told reporters in the Kremlin. “The president has
never hidden his interest in modern means of communication, in
social networks.”  Medvedev, who will make way for his predecessor in
presidential elections next March after completing a single
four-year term, is heading United  Russia ’s party list at the
Dec. 4 vote. He is tasked with maintaining the party’s two-
thirds majority in the State Duma, Russia’s lower chamber of
parliament, after support ebbed.  Medvedev made his first  post  on Facebook yesterday. “I’ve
decided to write on Facebook as well -- read!” the Russian
leader wrote, prompting more than 1,700 comments. He later
congratulated French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and his wife
Carla Bruni-Sarkozy on the birth of their daughter.  His account was created more than two years ago by an
unidentified fan before being taken over by the Kremlin’s press
service. Prior to the post, his page had about 250,000
subscribers.  “Right away you get an audience of Vedomosti and
Kommersant combined,” Timakova said, referring to Russia’s two
largest business newspapers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow office at
   lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  