-- 
Legacy of Repression Marked Qaddafi Rule That Left Rich Nation in Poverty

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-10-20T17:21:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/legacy-of-repression-marked-qaddafi-rule-that-left-rich-nation-in-poverty.html
Muammar Qaddafi’s four decades of
rule in  Libya  were marked by international sanctions and a
distribution of income that left Libyans, who sit on  Africa ’s
largest oil reserves, poorer than the people of almost every
other major Arab oil producer.  Two months after a NATO-backed uprising forced him from
power, Qaddafi died in his hometown of Sirte today. He was 69.  “We announce to the world that Qaddafi has been killed at
the hand of the revolutionaries,” Abdel Hafiz Ghoga, vice
chairman of the country’s National Transitional Council, told
reporters in the eastern city of Benghazi, where the revolt
began in February.  State television announced: “Libya is joyous, Libya is
celebrating.”  Qaddafi, who turned his guns, aircraft and soldiers on his
own people even before their peaceful protests grew into armed
revolution, failed in his bid to avoid the fate of the leaders
of  Tunisia  and  Egypt , both toppled by popular uprisings this
year. His death may bring to an end eight months of fighting
between loyalists and the one-time rebels who now run the
country after seizing the capital, Tripoli, in August.  Qaddafi had been in hiding since then. The transitional
council said it would wait for the fall of Sirte, the last main
holdout where Qaddafi loyalists were fighting, before declaring
the country liberated. The council has said it would then hold
elections within eight months.  Assets Frozen  When the uprising against Qaddafi began, the  Libyan
Investment Authority , the country’s main sovereign-wealth fund,
had about $65 billion of assets, most of it cash and short-term
securities, according to its former deputy chief executive,
Mustafa Zarti, who quit in February to protest the violent
crackdown on protests. All of its stakes were frozen by the
European Union and  Switzerland  to prevent Qaddafi from raising
money to support his military efforts.  The holdings include 7.5 percent of the Turin-based
Juventus soccer club; 2 percent of  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , Italy’s
biggest defense company; and 3 percent of  Pearson Plc (PSON) , publisher
of the Financial Times. Libyan investors own 7.2 percent of
UniCredit SpA, Italy’s biggest bank, including a 4 percent stake
held by Libya’s central bank, according to Bloomberg data.  Libya was producing about 1.6 million barrels of oil a day
before the conflict broke out, causing output to slump to a
“trickle,” according to the  International Energy Agency , as
foreign companies fled and fighters battled for control of the
oil facilities.  Production will be back up to 600,000 barrels by the end of
this year, the agency said last week. Libya’s estimated reserves
of 47 billion barrels are the ninth-largest in the world,
according to the  CIA World Factbook .  Low GDP  Even at peak oil production, after the return of U.S. firms
in recent years, Libya’s gross domestic product per capita,
measured in terms of purchasing power, remained lower than all
major Arab oil producers except  Algeria , International Monetary
Fund  data  show. Crude accounts for 95 percent of Libya’s
exports.  Qaddafi spent some of Libya’s revenue on personal security,
building up a militia loyal to his family that was implicated in
some of his worst human-rights violations. Those include what
 Human Rights Watch  described as the “mass killing” of as many
as 1,200 people at Tripoli’s Abu Salem prison in 1996.  “I could not see the dead prisoners who were shot, but I
could see those who were shooting,” Hussein al-Shafa’i, who
said he was jailed at Abu Salem between 1988 and 2000, said in
remarks published on the group’s website. “They were special
units and wearing khaki military hats. Six were using
Kalashnikovs.”  Bedouin Family  Muammar Abu Minyar Qaddafi was born on June 7, 1942, to a
Bedouin family near Sirte. A former army officer, he seized
power in a 1969 coup that overthrew Libya’s  monarchy .  Among the acts since attributed to the world’s longest-
serving non-royal leader: a 1996 prison massacre that left
hundreds of inmates dead, the 1988 bombing of a  passenger jet 
over Lockerbie,  Scotland , which killed 270 people, and a plan to
make an atomic bomb. In the last decade, Qaddafi improved ties
with the West, seeking to remove the “mad dog” label applied
by former U.S. President  Ronald Reagan .  “It was a brutal, closed and repressive regime that never
hesitated to use violence against its people,” said Philippe Moreau-Defarges, a researcher at the Paris-based French
Institute of International Affairs. “He’ll be remembered as a
third-rate, wannabe Castro,” he said, a reference to former
Cuban leader  Fidel Castro .  Popular Committees  Qaddafi said his regime gave power to the people through
so-called Popular Committees of ordinary Libyans. The committees
functioned as ministries; human-rights critics said the
organizations were merely fronts for his autocratic rule.  Qaddafi called himself “The Brother Leader of the
Revolution” and regarded political parties as a source of
strife, according to his revolutionary manifesto,  “The Green
Book.”  He had no formal title and never designated a successor
or a succession procedure in a country with no written
constitution.  The leader’s global reputation was shaped by his eccentric
behavior, such as surrounding himself with an all-female
bodyguard corps and pitching a Bedouin tent in the courtyard of
a Paris mansion during a 2007 state visit to  France .  “What we’ll remember of Qaddafi was mostly a lot of
show,” Ettore Greco, the Rome-based director of the
 International Affairs Institute , said in an interview before
Qaddafi’s death. “He tried to ride all sorts of movements, from
pan-Arabism to pan-Africanism, but he never had any results.”  U.S., U.N. Sanctions  His attempts to export the self-styled revolution to other
countries put Libya under U.S. and United Nations sanctions in
the 1980s and 1990s, accused of sponsoring terrorism, including
the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie.  U.S. Air Force and Navy aircraft struck Tripoli in April
1986 in a raid that Reagan said was retaliation for the bombing
of a Berlin discotheque that killed two U.S. servicemen.  The turnaround in relations with the West started in 1999,
when Qaddafi allowed the extradition of two Libyans suspected in
the Lockerbie case. One of them, Abdel Basset al-Megrahi, was
convicted and sentenced to life in prison. He was released by
Scottish authorities in 2009 on compassionate medical grounds --
he was said to be in the final stages of terminal prostate
cancer -- and allowed to return to Libya, where he now resides.  In 2003, Qaddafi offered to pay as much as $2.7 billion to
compensate families of those killed on Pan Am 103. He also
abandoned a nuclear-arms development effort, pledged to destroy
a chemical-weapons stockpile and renounced terrorism.  Oil Investment  The actions led to an easing of sanctions and improved ties
with the U.S. and European nations. Western investment to expand
Libyan oil production followed, as did Libyan investment in the
West.  At a Group of Eight dinner in  Italy  in 2009, which Qaddafi
attended in his role as head of the  African Union , the Libyan
ruler shook hands for the first time with an American president,
23 years after Reagan ordered the bombing of his tent.  The handshake was orchestrated by  Silvio Berlusconi , prime
minister of Italy, the country that had kept Libya as a colony
from 1912 until World War II. Berlusconi shuffled the seating
arrangements, putting Qaddafi on his left and U.S. President
 Barack Obama  on his right. The premier also promised to spend
$4.8 billion over 20 years, mostly paid to Italian companies, to
build a road across Libya from Tunisia to Egypt.  Eight Children  Qaddafi’s wife, Safia, along with three of his eight
children -- daughter Aisha and sons Hannibal and Mohammed --
crossed the border into Algeria at the end of August, along with
the sons’ wives and children, and were granted exile. Alone of
the eight children, Mohammed was born to Qaddafi’s first wife,
Fatiha.  Qaddafi’s son and presumed heir, Saif al-Islam, was thought
to be hiding in Bani Walid, according to Libya’s transitional
council. Another son, Saadi, was arrested in Niger when his
convoy of vehicles was intercepted by the Nigerian army, Justice
Minister Amadou Marou said last month.  The other three Qaddafi sons are known or reported to have
been killed in recent months. Mutassim was shot to death today,
the Misrata Military Council, which led the assault on Sirte,
said in an e-mailed statement. Saif al-Arab was killed in a NATO
missile strike on April 30. Khamis, who commanded the elite 32nd
Brigade based in Bani Walid, was also killed in a NATO air
strike,  Sky News  reported on Aug. 29, citing a man claiming to
have been his bodyguard.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  