-- 
Telstra Default Swaps Drop to 12-Month Low Versus Peers: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-10-21T01:13:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/telstra-default-swaps-drop-to-12-month-low-versus-peers-australia-credit.html
Telstra Corp.’s plan to relinquish
control of its fixed-line network to the government for $11.3
billion has made  Australia ’s third-biggest non-financial
borrower the most creditworthy versus global peers in a year.  Credit-default swaps on Telstra tumbled 15 basis points
this month to 143 basis points, approaching the cheapest
relative to contracts on telecommunications companies worldwide
since October 2010, according to CMA and Bloomberg prices.
Relative yields on its U.S. dollar bonds are falling faster than
similarly-rated peers, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  Telstra, the nation’s largest phone company, won
shareholder backing this week for the plan that will give it a
guaranteed cash flow for at least the next decade as the
government builds a fiber network across the island continent.
The Melbourne-based company joins banks and miners in beating
global counterparts in credit markets as investors seek assets
in an economy forecast to expand 4.3 percent in 2012.  “There is more certainty over cash flows at Telstra,
underpinned by the agreement,” said Brad Newcombe, a director
at FIIG Securities Ltd., Australia’s largest specialist fixed-
income brokerage. Compensation from the government for giving up
control of the copper-wire network can be used to “reduce debt
and keep the balance sheet looking solid,” he said.  Yield Spreads  The extra yield investors demand to hold Telstra’s $1
billion of 4.8 percent bonds due October 2021 instead of
Treasuries fell 29 basis points, or 0.29 percentage point, this
month to 201 basis points, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data
show. The yield premium on A rated, U.S. dollar bonds sold by
phone companies worldwide shrank 26 to 170 in the same period.  Craig Middleton, a spokesman for Telstra, declined to
comment on market perceptions of the company’s debt.  Telstra management agreed in June to shut down the copper-
wire network and grant access to its ducts and trenches so the
A$36 billion ($36.9 billion) National Broadband Network can be
built. By cooperating with the government, the company avoided
sanctions including bans on buying more spectrum for wireless
services and the forced sale of its pay television assets.  Telstra is better off by A$4.7 billion taking the A$11
billion compensation than trying to keep its slower copper wires
and compete with the NBN, Grant Samuel & Associates Pty, a
Sydney-based corporate and investment adviser hired to assess
the deal, said last month. It also allows the company to focus
on faster-growing mobile services as households scrap
traditional fixed lines.  The agreement needs approval from antitrust regulators.  Stable Outlook  Moody’s Investors Service will confirm Telstra’s rating at
A2, the sixth-highest investment grade, with a “stable”
outlook if it gets the regulatory approval, the risk assessor
said in an Oct. 19 statement.  With A$14.2 billion of borrowings outstanding as of June,
Telstra is the nation’s third-most indebted non-financial
corporate borrower rated by Moody’s, behind BHP Billiton Ltd.
and Westfield Group, the credit assessor said in a report last
month.  “The situation Telstra faces now is a lot better,”
 Michael Bush , Melbourne-based head of credit research at
National Australia Bank Ltd, said. “Have the uncertainties
fully gone? No, but compared to the scenarios we were
considering 12 or 18 months ago, things are much better.”  The company plans to meet with bond investors in Europe
starting Oct. 31 and hired BNP Paribas SA, Credit Suisse Group
AG, Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc to organize the
presentations, according to two people with knowledge of the
arrangements.  Swaps Tumble  The cost of insuring the debt of Telstra against default is
headed for its biggest monthly decline since July 2010,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The
contracts were 75 basis points cheaper than an index of default-
swaps on phone companies worldwide on Oct. 17, the biggest
discount in 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg and CMA show.  Telstra swaps may narrow as much as 15 basis points
compared with the broader Australian index, Bush said.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index of credit-default swaps
on 25 companies fell 1 to 188 as of 12:08 p.m. in Sydney today,
according to Credit Agricole CIB. It reached a more-than two-
year high of 239 on Oct. 4 as policy makers battled to contain
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis, CMA prices show.  Australian corporate bonds have returned 2.6 percent since
June 30, compared with a 2.4 percent gain for U.S. company notes
and 1.3 percent for comparable securities globally, Merrill
Lynch indexes show.  Fastest Growth  Australia’s economy will expand at the fastest pace among
Group of 10 nations next year amid Chinese and Indian demand for
iron ore and coal, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
The projected 4.3 percent growth in 2012 compares with 1 percent
in Europe and 2 percent in the U.S., the forecasts show.  Rising coal exports and resource investment should help
shield Australia from a global economic slowdown emanating from
the U.S. and Europe, Deloitte Access Economics said Oct. 19.  The government estimates Australia’s pipeline of resource
investment at A$430 billion, with about 40 percent of plans
already at an advanced stage.  Average cash holdings at Australian companies have
increased to almost A$1.6 billion from less than A$700 million
in 2007, Moody’s said in a Sept. 19 report. All of the A$23
billion in rated corporate debt maturing in the next two years
is investment grade, it said.  The average cost of credit-default swaps on Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd.,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia ,
National Australia Bank and Westpac Banking Corp., the nation’s
four biggest lenders, dropped this month to 174 as of Oct. 19,
the cheapest relative to global banks in at least two years, CMA
and Bloomberg data show.  Government Bonds  Contracts on Melbourne-based BHP, the world’s largest
mining company, were 145 basis points cheaper than an index of
global peers on Oct. 17, the biggest gap since July 2009, the
data show.  The benchmark 10-year bond yield rose 5 basis points to
4.48 percent at 11:37 a.m. in Sydney today, or 229 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries. The government issued a
new line of debt maturing in 2027 yesterday, its longest-
maturity bond since 1984. The A$3.25 billion of 4.75 percent
bonds, the largest offering on record, were priced to yield 4.88
percent, according to the Australian Office of Financial
Management.  Inflation Outlook  The gap between yields on Australian  government bonds  and
inflation-indexed notes shows investors estimate consumer prices
will rise an average of 2.49 percent for the next five years,
down from 2011’s peak of 3.14 percent on May 6.  Telstra swaps cost the same as contracts on rival Singtel
Optus Pty, compared with 17 basis points more on Aug. 22, CMA
prices show. Sydney-based Optus, a wholly owned unit of
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd., is rated A+ by  Standard &
Poor’s  with a “stable” outlook, while Telstra holds an A grade
with a “negative” outlook, according to Bloomberg data.  Telstra had 12.2 million mobile services in operation at
June 30 compared with 9.1 million at second-ranked Optus.  Telstra is “a good cash business going forward and the NBN
agreement underpins that with 30 years of cash flow,” said
George Boubouras, head of investment strategy at UBS AG’s
Australian wealth-management unit. “The regulatory risk was
there but not anymore.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  