-- 
Emerging Stocks Drop Most in Two Weeks on Europe, China Concern

-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-10-20T22:22:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/emerging-stocks-drop-most-in-three-weeks-on-china-thai-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks dropped the
most in two weeks on concern divisions between France and
 Germany  may hinder attempts to resolve Europe’s debt crisis and
that  China  may continue policies to rein in lending.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 2.7 percent, its
biggest drop since Oct. 3, to 907.71 as of 5 p.m. in New York.
The Shanghai Composite Index slumped 1.9 percent to a two-year
low. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  declined 2.7 percent and Turkey’s
 ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  fell 3.3 percent. The Bovespa lost 1.7
percent in  Sao Paulo  and benchmark indexes slid by more than 2
percent in  Poland  and Hungary.  European governments discussed deploying $1.3 trillion in
funds to tame the sovereign debt crisis. Two people familiar
with the matter said  Europe  may combine the temporary and
permanent rescue funds to pool as much as 940 billion euros to
fight the crisis. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said in a joint statement they want
euro-region leaders to agree on an “ambitious” plan. The
European Union said a planned Oct. 23 summit will be followed by
another session on Oct. 26.  “Markets in the European time zone are getting more and
more worried about the outcome of this weekend’s summit,”
analysts at BNP Paribas SA including Bartosz Pawlowski in
 London , wrote in an e-mailed note.  Poland,  Brazil   KGHM Polska Miedz, the copper producer with the biggest
European output, sank 6.9 percent in Warsaw as the metal’s price
tumbled a fourth day in  New York . Poland’s WIG20 Index fell 2.8
percent.  The Bovespa  stock index  fell for the third session in four
as traders pared wagers for further interest-rate cuts in Brazil
after the central bank lowered the benchmark rate by half a
point. Miners Vale SA and MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA slumped
amid concern declines in the price for iron-ore may deepen as
 China’s economy  slows and the European crisis persists.  The Turkish stock index fell after the central bank left
its benchmark repurchase rate unchanged at 5.75 percent and
dropped references to easing from its rate meeting statement.  The lira appreciated by 0.6 percent while the ruble
weakened 1.6 percent against the dollar.  The Shanghai Composite Index has slumped 17 percent this
year as the government raised  interest rates  and took steps to
curb bank lending amid efforts to curb inflation.  Lack of Supervision  “It’s undeniable that the lack of supervision and
management of local government financing vehicles have created
some hidden risks,”  Liu Mingkang , chairman of the China Banking
Regulatory Commission, said in a speech.  Thailand’s SET Index slumped 3.1 percent as the central
bank said it will cut the growth forecast for this year because
of the country’s floods. The government warned floodwaters may
reach parts of inner Bangkok amid a struggle to control a deluge
that has inundated thousands of factories.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  retreated one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 410, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
Middle East and Africa credit-default swaps rose 19 basis points
to 320, according to data provider CMA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 