-- 
Ericsson Third-Quarter Net Income Beats Estimates on China, Latin America

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-10-20T07:35:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/ericsson-q3-net-3-82b-kronor-beats-estimate.html
Ericsson AB, the world’s largest
maker of wireless networks, reported third-quarter profit and
sales that topped analysts’ estimates as phone companies in
 Latin America  and  China  increased spending.  Net income climbed to 3.82 billion kronor ($573 million)
from 3.68 billion kronor a year earlier, Stockholm-based
Ericsson said today in a statement. Analysts in a Bloomberg
survey had predicted profit of 3.66 billion kronor. Sales rose
17 percent, also surpassing estimates.  North American carriers such as AT&T Inc. and Verizon
Communications Inc. spent less than before to fortify their
networks for increasing numbers of smartphone and tablet users,
while those in other regions stepped up their capacity
additions. Ericsson’s gross margin declined 4 percent to 35
percent as it increased its proportion of network upgrades in
 Europe , which have smaller margins than new installations.  “Revenue was very strong and that is important given the
macro situation,” said Haakan Wranne, a Stockholm-based analyst
at Swedbank. “Fear of a decline in demand has been reflected in
the share price and this report shows that so far demand is
still there.”  Ericsson rose as much as 3.9 percent to 68.05 kronor in
 Stockholm  trading and was up 3.1 percent as of 9:17 a.m. Before
today, the stock had dropped 16 percent.  Beating Sales Estimates  Third-quarter sales reached 55.5 billion kronor, beating
the 52.6 billion-kronor average estimate of 30 analysts. It was
the fourth consecutive quarter where the company beat analysts’
sales estimates.  Global sales of wireless infrastructure equipment are
expected to reach $41.3 billion this year, rising to $48 billion
in 2015, market researcher Gartner Inc. said. Ericsson was the
market leader in the second quarter with a share of about 40
percent, according to researcher Dell’Oro Group.  Nokia Siemens Networks and Huawei Technologies Co. compete
with Ericsson for sales and maintenance of stations used by
third-generation, or 3G, mobile-broadband networks and contracts
for newer fourth-generation networks.  “We think we are growing faster than the market at the
moment, and we are number one in the areas that are having
fastest growth in the industry,” Ericsson Chief Executive
Officer Hans Vestberg said at a press conference in Stockholm
today. “We are number one in mobile broadband and services, and
with the acquisition of Telcordia, we will be number one in
operations and business support systems as well.”  Ericsson agreed in June to buy Telcordia Technologies Inc.,
adding software and services for clients who choose not to
outsource their  network management .  Smartphone Data Push  Services sales gained 7 percent in the quarter as Ericsson
added network management and system integration contracts.  Ericsson’s contract wins in the quarter included a five-
year managed services agreement with Bharti Airtel in  Africa .
The company also announced it will open a fourth global network
operations center in China, where it has taken over field
maintenance for China Mobile in one local province.  “If world economies deteriorate in a big way, that will
obviously affect Ericsson but we will still have an underlying
cushion from operators needing to meet demand for data
traffic,” Wranne said. “That’s exploded in the last few
years.”  Data-Hungry Devices  Ericsson and other network companies benefit from greater
adoption of data-hungry devices such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone and
tablet computers.  Chipmaking venture ST-Ericsson reported a third-quarter
loss that widened to $211 million as sales slumped, reducing
Ericsson’s earnings by 700 million kronor. Sony Ericsson Mobile
Communications AB, the company’s handset joint venture with Sony
Corp., reported net income that “rounded below 500,000 euros”
and added 100 million kronor to Ericsson’s profit.  Sony is reviewing the 50-50 partnership because the
business has become more important for  Japan ’s largest exporter
of consumer electronics with demand for smartphones and
computers surging, a person with knowledge of the matter said
this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  