-- 
Merkel Cancels EFSF Speech to Assembly

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-10-20T16:31:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/merkel-cancels-speech-to-parliament-amid-debt-talk-deadlock-lawmakers-say.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has
canceled a planned speech to parliament in Berlin tomorrow
because of a deadlock over proposals to leverage the European
Financial Stability Facility to give it more firepower, three
German lawmakers said.  “It’s a disappointing development but without any concrete
proposal for increasing the efficiency of the fund the
chancellor can’t present a complete set of proposals tomorrow,”
 Norbert Barthle  the ranking member of Merkel’s Christian
Democratic Union party on parliament’s budget committee, told
reporters. Other lawmakers confirming cancelation of Merkel’s
speech were opposition members Carsten Schneider and Priska Hinz.  “The French want more money from Germany than we are
prepared to shoulder,”  Otto Fricke , the budget spokesman for
Merkel’s Free Democratic Party ally in parliament, told
reporters today.  France  and Germany are wrangling over the role of the
European Central Bank in tackling Europe’s debt crisis. Finance
ministers gather in Brussels tomorrow to set a common strategy,
with European leaders scheduled to meet Oct. 23.  German lawmakers today said they will not sign off on
proposals to enhance the firepower of the EFSF because of the
disagreements.  As the summit approaches, the euro-region’s biggest
financial backers Germany and France are still at odds over how
to expand the EFSF’s firepower, accommodating new tools from
precautionary loans to buying bonds in primary and secondary
markets. Draft EFSF guidelines, obtained by Bloomberg News
today, make no mention of how to boost its 440 billion-euro
firepower.  France favors creating a bank out of the EFSF, boosting its
financial clout with backing from the ECB, a proposal that
Germany rejects, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told
lawmakers in Berlin this week. French Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  said today that the euro region should agree to use
leverage to make the region’s financial support fund
“massive.”  “It’s not the fault of the government or parliament but is
a problem among the international partners,” Barthle said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Leon Mangasarian at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net  