-- 
Merkel Won’t Let Euro Split, May Cause Dark Age, Rifkin Says

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-10-20T15:29:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/merkel-won-t-let-euro-split-could-cause-dark-age-rifkin-says.html
Angela Merkel  won’t allow the euro
region to split because she understands that could cause “a
dark age” by wrecking the bloc’s energy markets as oil supplies
dwindle, said an adviser to the German chancellor.  Europe’s 500 million residents, the wealthiest market on
Earth, have led the development of technologies in clean energy,
transport and communications that can drive global growth that
doesn’t rely on oil, said Jeremy Rifkin, a Wharton Business
School professor who has advised Merkel for six years.  “I hope they pull this off, there’s no one else,” he said
yesterday in Madrid of Merkel’s struggle to boost growth as part
of Europe’s rescue strategy and preserve the single currency
area. “If it splits up, we’re into a dark age.”  Rifkin argues that record  oil prices  in 2008 pushing up the
costs of everything from food to clothing rather than the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. was the main cause of
the financial crisis. The global economy won’t return to its
pre-crisis growth until it moves away from fossil fuels because
rising oil prices will continually hold down expansion, he said.  The global economy sputtered again this year after oil
prices surged. The  European Central Bank  started buying Italian
and Spanish government bonds to control the sovereign debt
crisis on Aug. 8, three months after oil prices reached their
highest since 2008. Stock markets slumped this summer, with the
 S&P 500  losing 17 percent from July 22 to Aug. 8.  Germany ’s deployment of renewable energy, intelligent power
grids and electric vehicles leaves it best-placed to lead the
world economy beyond its reliance on fossil fuels, Rifkin said.
His vision involves creating an “energy Internet.”  Energy Networks  The EU has led the global battle to limit the greenhouse
gas emissions that scientists say are almost certainly the cause
of global warming, establishing the world’s biggest market for
carbon-dioxide emission permits in 2005. That infrastructure, as
well as the bloc’s targets for transforming its energy networks
over the next 30 years, would likely be wrecked if the single
currency area split, Rifkin said.  Merkel meets European Union leaders in Brussels on Oct. 23
as they seek a solution to the debt crisis that has brought the
euro area to the brink of recession, according to  Christian Schulz , an economist at Joh Berenberg Gossler & Co. in  London .  “If the euro fails,  Europe  fails,” Merkel said yesterday.
“But we shall not allow this to happen.”  The European Commission today recommended paying Greece the
next installment of bailout loans as “soon as possible” so
long as Prime Minister George Papandreou wins parliamentary
approval for new austerity measures.  Global crude output likely peaked in 2006, the
International Energy Agency says. Oil companies will have to
spend trillions of dollars drilling in increasingly hostile
environments such as deep waters in the  Gulf of Mexico  or the
Arctic to meet demand, it said in its 2011 World Energy Outlook.  Merkel, Sarkozy, Zapatero  Rifkin, in the Spanish capital to speak today at a Rafael
del Pino Foundation conference, has advised Merkel, French
Premier  Nicolas Sarkozy  and Spain’s Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero
that the global economy’s fundamental problem stems from the end
of a growth model based on fossil fuels.  Sustainable expansion will only return when officials and
executives can produce “the third industrial revolution,” the
University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School professor argues in
a book of the same title due to be published next month.  The shift will involve harnessing Internet technology to
manage a decentralized network of renewable power generators
based in homes and offices, Rifkin said. Domestic hydrogen
batteries and computer software will allow consumers to buy and
sell power over a smart network, he said.  “This is the completion of the legacy  Steve Jobs 
started,” he said, referring to the  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  chief who died
on Oct. 5. Energy “collecting technologies are going to get
cheaper and cheaper. They are following same cost curves as
computers and phones.”  Rifkin has also advised executives at companies including
Samsung Electronics Co.,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , McKinsey & Co. and  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  as well as the European Commission and the U.S.
Department of Interior.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  