-- 
Estonia Opposes Boosting Euro Bailout Fund, Premier Ansip Says

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-10-20T10:33:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/estonia-opposes-boosting-euro-bailout-fund-premier-ansip-says.html
Estonia opposes further increasing
the size of  Europe ’s temporary rescue fund and wants the
“maximum” involvement of private companies in recapitalizing
banks, Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip  said.  Estonia expects private companies to bear the brunt of
costs of any bank recapitalization, followed by the involved
member states with Europe-wide measures as a backstop, Ansip
told a news conference today in the capital, Tallinn.  European leaders, who will meet at an Oct. 23 summit, are
seeking ways to maximize the firepower of the 440 billion-euro
($608 billion) European Financial Stability Facility as the
region’s debt crisis threatens Italy and  Spain . One mode being
discussed allows Europe to boost the fund’s scope by using it to
insure only a portion of national bond sales.  “ Estonia ’s position unambiguously states that we don’t
agree with increasing the size of the” fund’s “guarantees,
while we do agree to leveraging its funds,” Ansip said. “I’m
convinced that the readiness of the majority of eurozone member
states to give additional guarantees has by now been depleted.”  A majority of Estonians oppose the country’s involvement in
the bailout fund, which has channeled aid to Ireland and
 Portugal , according to a poll published by Tallinn-based
research company Turu-Uuringute AS on Oct. 13. Fifty-eight
percent of respondents said the country, which adopted the euro
this year, shouldn’t guarantee EFSF loans, it said.  Ansip repeated that Estonia backs launching the region’s
permanent rescue fund, European Stability Mechanism, in July
2012, a year before schedule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  