-- 
ETF Hearings, Vacancies, Citigroup Settlement: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-10-20T12:22:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/etf-hearings-agency-vacancies-citigroup-settlement-compliance.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
provider of exchange-traded funds, urged U.S. lawmakers to bar
products that rely on derivatives from being marketed as ETFs,
or exchange traded funds, to avoid confusion with their
traditional counterparts.  BlackRock Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Laurence D.
Fink compared ETFs to the market for mortgage-backed bonds,
which began with a simple product and evolved into complex
variations with risks that investors didn’t understand.  ETFs, which hold $1.43 trillion in assets worldwide, have
drawn scrutiny from regulators since 2009. The Securities and
Exchange Commission has examined whether ETFs contributed to
equity-market volatility in August and the intraday plunge on
May 6, 2010. European ETFs that generate returns through
derivatives add a layer of complexity and risk to financial
markets, the  International Monetary Fund  said in April.  Archard, head of product development at iShares, testified
before the  Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban
Affairs’ subcommittee on securities,  insurance and investment.
Some complex and risky funds “should not be called ETFs,”
BlackRock’s  Noel Archard  told a Senate subcommittee in
Washington yesterday.  Michael Sapir, chairman and CEO of ProShare Advisors LLC in
Bethesda, Maryland, the largest provider of leveraged and
inverse ETFs, criticized BlackRock in a statement yesterday for
using the hearing “as a platform to promote its own agenda.”  Eileen Rominger, head of the SEC’s division of investment
management, and  Harold Bradley , chief investment officer at the
nonprofit  Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation  in Kansas City,
Missouri, also spoke at the hearing.  For more, click here and click here.  Compliance Policy  U.S. Bancorp’s Davis ‘Frustrated’ by Vacancies at Regulators  U.S. Bancorp Chief Executive Officer Richard Davis said
he’s “frustrated” that Congress hasn’t confirmed regulators to
lead agencies in charge of new banking rules because the
vacancies are hindering his industry.  Davis, head of the nation’s fifth-largest commercial bank,
made the remarks yesterday during a conference call with
analysts. He cited jobs at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the new
 Consumer Financial Protection Bureau .  Davis, whose bank is based in Minneapolis said that until
the heads of the agencies are appointed,’’ you don’t get the
same kind of definitive answers.’’  Some of the appointments are stalled in Congress, where
Republicans are trying to head off tighter bank regulation and
have opposed creation of the consumer bureau. He told bankers in
June not to “overreact” to the CFPB’s creation, urging them to
embrace the agency and work with whomever is appointed.  Davis said that banks are struggling with uncertainty as
they await changes mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, including
tougher capital rules and the creation of the Consumer Bureau.
Eighty percent of the country’s financial overhaul legislation
is “yet to be defined,” and rules that dictate capital buffers
for systemically important firms are unclear, he said.  The consumer bureau, which officially began work on July
21, won’t assume full supervisory powers over non-bank financial
firms until a director is in place.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Citigroup Agrees to Pay $285 Million Over SEC’s CDO Fraud Claims  Citigroup Inc., the third-biggest U.S. lender, agreed to
pay $285 million to settle U.S. regulatory claims it misled
investors about a $1 billion financial product linked to risky
mortgages that defaulted within months of its sale.  Citigroup structured and marketed the collateralized debt
obligation known as Class V Funding III, without telling
investors that it helped select the underlying assets and was
betting that they would decline in value, the Securities and
Exchange Commission said in a statement yesterday. The
settlement is the third-biggest penalty paid for conduct related
to the financial crisis, the SEC said.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  agreed to pay $2.5 million for its
role in selecting the assets for the deal.  The SEC also sued Brian Stoker, a former Citigroup employee
who the agency said was responsible for structuring the deal,
according to a complaint filed yesterday at U.S. District Court
in  New York . Stoker’s attorney, Fraser Hunter, said his client
will “defend this lawsuit vigorously.”  Samir Bhatt, a former Credit Suisse portfolio manager,
agreed to pay $50,000 and a serve a six-month suspension from
association with any investment adviser for his role in the
transaction, the SEC said.  Bhatt’s lawyer, James Masella , declined to comment, as did
Steven Vames, a New York-based spokesman for Credit Suisse.
Citigroup, Credit Suisse and Bhatt didn’t admit or deny the
SEC’s claims.  “We are pleased to put this matter behind us and are
focused on contributing to the economic recovery, serving our
clients and growing responsibly,” Citigroup said in an e-mailed
statement.  For more, click here.  To see a Bloomberg Television interview with SEC
Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  discussing the settlement,
click here.  UniCredit’s Profumo Faces Probe as Bank’s Assets Seized  Former  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  Chief Executive Officer  Alessandro
Profumo  is among 20 executives being examined in a tax-evasion
probe that led a Milan court to seize 245 million euros ($337
million) of the bank’s assets, court documents show.  Prosecutors are examining whether UniCredit, Italy’s
largest lender, committed fraud through an international
investment plan dubbed Brontos arranged by  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
according to the documents. Three people from London-based
Barclays are also under investigation, the documents show.  UniCredit was “very surprised” by the seizure and
“remains convinced that both it and its employees acted
correctly,” the Milan-based lender said in a statement. The
assets being held represent the firm’s suspected profit from
false declarations for fiscal 2007 and 2008, according to a
separate statement from Italy’s finance police, which conducted
the seizure.  Profumo, 54, declined to comment on the inquiry as did
Simon Eaton, a Barclays spokesman in London.  UniCredit used a tax plan named Brontos to increase the
bank’s “economic benefits,” Profumo said at the company’s
annual meeting in April 2010. The plan boosted the bank’s pretax
profit, a UniCredit spokesman said at the time.  Vittorio Ogliengo, UniCredit’s co-head of financing and
advisory, and Barclays bankers Rupak Chandra and Stefano Filippi
are being examined, court documents show. Chandra declined to
comment, while Ogliengo and Filippi didn’t immediately return a
phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Barclays Capital “fully” supports its employees named in
the probe, the company said in an e-mailed statement.  UBS Trader’s Case Sent to U.K. Crown Court for Nov. 22 Hearing  Kweku Adoboli, the trader accused of costing  UBS AG (UBSN)  $2.3
billion by making unauthorized trades, had his case transferred
to a criminal court in London where he will be expected to enter
a plea at a Nov. 22 hearing.  The 31-year-old has been in custody since his arrest on
Sept. 15, when UBS asked London police to detain him after he
reported the losses. He was charged two days later with fraud
and false accounting dating back to 2008. He was fired from the
Swiss bank on Sept. 17, prosecutor David Williams said.  Adoboli, who holds a Ghanaian passport, appeared before a
panel of three magistrate judges today and his lawyer, Patrick
Gibbs, said he wouldn’t offer a plea at the hearing. Prosecutors
amended the charges against Adoboli to indicate he falsified
transactions on exchange-traded funds.  He faces as many as 10 years in prison if found guilty,
according to U.K. sentencing guidelines. Time spent in custody
beforehand would be deducted from any sentence. He said through
his lawyer at a hearing last month he was “sorry beyond words”
for his “disastrous miscalculations.”  The alleged trading losses have led to the departures of
UBS Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  and the co-heads of
global equities, Francois Gouws and Yassine Bouhara. “A number
of front office staff” have been suspended pending further
disciplinary action, Carsten Kengeter, head of the investment
bank, said in a memo to staff.  Courts  Citigroup, McGraw-Hill Win Appeals in Retirement Plan Suits  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and McGraw-Hill Cos. won appeals-court
decisions upholding dismissal of lawsuits brought by employees
claiming their retirement plans lost money invested in company
stock.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan upheld the
dismissals in companion rulings yesterday. In 2009, U.S.
District Judge  Sidney Stein  in New York found that Citigroup,
the third-biggest U.S. lender, didn’t breach its duty to the
workers by offering Citigroup stock as an investment option. In
February 2010, U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  ruled
similarly in favor of McGraw-Hill, the finance and media company
that is splitting into two.  The Citigroup suit was filed on behalf of 150,000 employees
covered by two retirement plans. The plaintiffs in the McGraw-
Hill case participated in one of two defined-contribution plans
offered by the company. Both cases were brought under the
federal Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, also
known as ERISA. Both companies are based in New York.  Marc I. Machiz, of  Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC  in
Philadelphia, a lawyer for the Citigroup employees, who
expressed disappointment with the ruling, said it was likely the
Citigroup plaintiffs would as the full appeals court to rehear
the case.  Edwin Mills, a lawyer for the McGraw-Hill employees at
Stull, Stull & Brody in New York, didn’t immediately return a
call for comment on the decision.  The cases are Gray v. Citigroup Inc., 09-3804, and Gearren
v. McGraw-Hill Cos., 10-792, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
(Manhattan).  Ex-KLA-Tencor, Juniper Executive to Pay SEC Settlement Fine  The former general counsel of  KLA-Tencor Corp. (KLAC)  and  Juniper
Networks Inc. (JNPR)  agreed to pay $350,000 to settle allegations by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission related to
backdating of stock options.  Lisa Berry, the former executive, also agreed give up
$77,120 that the SEC said she made as a result of the
backdating, according to an agency statement. Berry didn’t admit
or deny backdating option grants at the two companies from 1997
to 2003.  Her attorney, James Kramer of Orrick, Herrington &
Sutcliffe LLP, said in an e-mailed statement that Berry “is
pleased to have reached a resolution in the case.”  “While the agreement with the SEC prevents her from
discussing the case, it makes clear that Ms. Berry does not
admit to any of the SEC’s assertions, and she looks forward to
continuing her career as a practicing lawyer,” Kramer said.
Kenneth Schroeder, according to the SEC’s statement.  Berry also agreed to be suspended from appearing as an
attorney before the SEC, the commission said. She may apply for
reinstatement in five years.  The commission previously settled claims against the
companies and KLA-Tencor’s former chief executive officer,
Kenneth Schroeder, according to the SEC’s statement.  The case is SEC v. Berry, 07-cv-4431, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  BofA’s Mortgage-Bond Accord Kept in Federal Court for Review  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s proposed $8.5 billion settlement
with mortgage-bond investors must be considered in federal court
and not in New York state court where it was first filed, a U.S.
judge said.  “The settlement agreement at issue here implicates core
federal interests in the integrity of nationally chartered banks
and the vitality of the national securities markets,” U.S.
District Judge William Pauley in Manhattan said in a decision
filed yesterday.  The proposed agreement would settle claims from investors
in Countrywide Financial Corp. mortgage bonds and is a move by
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America to resolve
liabilities tied to its 2008 purchase of the home lender. The
deal was reached with an institutional investor group that
includes BlackRock Inc. and Pacific Investment Management Co.
and would apply to 530 mortgage-securitization trusts.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the trustee for the
mortgage-bond trusts, filed the settlement in state court and
planned to seek approval at a November hearing. Under the state
proceeding, approval would bind investors outside the group that
negotiated the agreement.  Kevin Heine, a Bank of New York spokesman, declined to
comment on the ruling. The bank had asked Pauley to return the
case to state court after it had been moved to federal court.
Kathy Patrick, a lawyer for the institutional investor group
that negotiated the agreement, didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment on it yesterday.  The proposed settlement agreement has been criticized by
some investors in the bonds, including  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) , which said in a court filing that Bank of America is
“drastically underpaying on its liability.” Other investors
have filed objections to the agreement, saying they need more
information to evaluate it.  The case is Bank of New York Mellon v. Walnut Place LLC,
11-cv-5988, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Comings and Goings  Consumer Bureau Hires Humphrey to Head Older Americans Office  The  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau  named Hubert H.
“Skip” Humphrey III, Minnesota’s former attorney general, to
lead the agency’s Office of Older Americans, according to an e-
mail statement released yesterday.  In a blog post on the Consumer Bureau’s website yesterday,
Humphrey wrote that his mission is to help seniors in areas such
as preventing becoming the victims of fraud, financial planning,
and gathering research to help policy makers in the financial
services industry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net ;
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  