-- 
EU Recommends Paying Greek Aid Loans ‘as Soon as Possible’

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-10-20T13:07:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/eu-commission-recommends-paying-greek-loan-as-soon-as-possible.html
The European Commission recommended
paying  Greece  the next installment of aid as “soon as
possible” after Prime Minister  George Papandreou  secures
parliamentary approval for new austerity measures.  The draft report from the Brussels-based commission, one of
three organizations providing financing to the country, said
Greece’s debt remains “extremely worrying” and the ratio,
which exceeded 140 percent of gross domestic product at the end
of 2010, will remain “at very high levels for many years.”  This will leave the country “vulnerable to adverse
shocks,” it said.  “The commission services recommend the sixth disbursement
to Greece to take place as soon as possible -- as soon as the
agreed prior actions on fiscal consolidation, privatization and
labor market reform, which were announced by the government,
have been legislated,” according to the report.  Papandreou will test his four-seat parliamentary majority
today as lawmakers vote on the austerity measures demanded by
the European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund , known as the troika, before a
crisis summit of European Union leaders on Oct. 23. Clashes took
place among protesters outside parliament as lawmakers debated
the measures, which include controversial changes to collective-
labor agreements.  The troika said Greece’s medium-term growth prospects may
be lowered as even more measures will likely be needed to meet
2013-2014 deficit targets. Greece’s economy will contract 5.5
percent this year and 2.8 percent next before growing 0.7
percent in 2013, according to the report.  While Greece’s “near-term privatization targets need to be
readjusted,” the longer-term objective “remains viable,” the
report said. Under the last round of measures passed in June,
Greece planned raising 5 billion euros ($6.9 billion) in state-
asset sales this year, and 50 billion euros through 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  