-- 
EU Said to Weigh Combined $1.3 Trillion Fund

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-10-20T20:15:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/eu-leaders-said-to-consider-combining-rescue-funds-to-deploy-1-3-trillion.html
European governments may unleash as
much as 940 billion euros ($1.3 trillion) to fight the debt
crisis by combining the temporary and planned permanent rescue
funds, two people familiar with the discussions said.  Negotiations over pairing the two funds as of mid-2012
accelerated this week after efforts to leverage the temporary
fund ran into European Central Bank opposition and provoked a
clash between  Germany  and France, said the people, who declined
to be identified because a decision rests with political
leaders.  Disclosure of the dual-use option helped reverse declines
in U.S. stocks and the euro on speculation it could help break
the deadlock among European leaders. Their wrangling led to the
scheduling of a summit three days after an Oct. 23 gathering.  “Incrementalism is better than holding pat,” said  Marc Chandler , chief currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co., in a telephone interview from  London . “This is
incrementalism.”  The 440 billion-euro European Financial Stability Facility
has already spent or committed about 160 billion euros,
including loans to Greece that will run for up to 30 years. It
is slated to be replaced by the European Stability Mechanism,
which will hold 500 billion euros, in mid-2013.  Permanent Fund  A consensus is emerging to start the permanent fund in
mid-2012, the people said. During the transition between the two
funds, euro-area governments originally agreed to cap overall
lending at 500 billion euros, a figure deemed sufficient when
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  were the primary victims of the
debt crisis.  Widening bond spreads in  Italy ,  Spain ,  Belgium  and France
have thrown off those calculations, with multiple uses --primary
and secondary market bond purchases, credit lines and bank aid
in addition to loans to governments -- now planned for the
rescue instruments.  Officials have discussed scrapping Article 34 of the ESM
treaty, which sets the combined lending cap, the people said. A
revised treaty is due to be signed by the end of November and
requires approval by the 17 euro-area governments, usually in
parliamentary votes.  Parliamentary ratification has snagged  Europe ’s crisis
response so far. Germany’s parliament attached conditions to its
approval of the EFSF’s latest upgrade and the ratification fight
in Slovakia cost the prime minister her job.  U.S. stocks gained today, with the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index adding 0.5 percent after losing as much as 1 percent. The
euro climbed to $1.3781 in  New York  from as low as $1.3656.  ECB Opposition  The focus on the lending ceiling came after central bankers
ruled out giving the EFSF a banking license, blocking the most
potent option for scaling it up.  France  has pushed Germany to go
beyond a less powerful, ECB-backed option of using it to insure
20 percent to 30 percent of new bond issues.  Still, the 280 billion euros left in the EFSF cannot be
wholly committed to bond insurance, since that would drain the
fund to zero, the people said. Instead, finance ministers are
likely to decide on the use of the EFSF’s instruments on a case-
by-case basis, the people said.  Faster startup of the ESM would widen Europe’s options and
save money, the people said. The ESM will operate with paid-in
capital, moving away from the guarantee-based system that
complicated the EFSF’s use.  While speedier enactment would require donor countries to
pay in as of 2012, those costs would be more than offset by
switching from the guarantee system, the people said. Donor
countries would save 38.5 billion euros, with Germany saving
11.5 billion euros and France 8.6 billion euros, according to
staff estimates reported by Bloomberg News on Sept. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  