-- 
EU Said to Weigh Use of $1.3 Trillion as Franco-German Discord Mars Talks

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-10-21T07:23:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/eu-said-to-mull-wielding-1-3-trillion-as-franco-german-discord-mars-talks.html
European governments may unleash as
much as 940 billion euros ($1.3 trillion) to fight the debt
crisis, seeking to break a deadlock between Germany and  France 
that is forcing leaders to hold two summits within four days.  Negotiations on combining the European Union’s temporary
and planned permanent rescue funds as of mid-2012, while
scrapping a ceiling on bailout spending, accelerated this week
after efforts to leverage the temporary fund ran into European
Central Bank opposition and provoked the French-German clash,
two people familiar with the discussions said. They declined to
be identified because political leaders will have to decide.  The option may be one way out of the impasse between
 Europe ’s two biggest economies as President Barack Obama presses
for them to find a solution. Finance ministers meet in Brussels
today from about 2 p.m. to lay the groundwork for an Oct. 23
meeting of government leaders that had been the deadline for a
solution to the debt crisis. A summit for Oct. 26 was set
yesterday after Germany and France said the EU needs more time
to seal a “global and ambitious” accord.  “The market wants the euro crisis solved yesterday, and
the politicians and finance ministries seem to be saying ‘yes we
can, but no we won’t,’”  Chris Rupkey , an economist at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., said in an e-mail. “Europe has the
wealth to deal with Greece, it is just that the process is
incredibly complex.”  Disclosure of the dual-use option helped reverse declines
in U.S. stocks and the euro yesterday. The Euro Stoxx 50 Index
added 1 percent, led by banks, at 9:20 a.m. in Brussels.  Greek Vote  In Greece, Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won a
parliamentary vote late yesterday on further austerity measures
to secure more aid under the 2010 bailout. As hooded protesters
threw rocks and battled riot police outside the parliament in
 Athens , one man died of heart failure after a rock hit him on
the head, the government said.  EU officials weighing deeper losses for Greek bondholders
in a revamped bailout are concerned that any investor
involvement risks further roiling markets, say people familiar
with the deliberations.  Greece  has accumulated at least 20 billion euros in
additional financing needs since a 159 billion-euro package was
set in July, because of a deepening recession and delays in
enacting the plan, said the people, who declined to be
identified because leaders have yet to agree on their strategy.  Debt Options  The EU is considering five scenarios, ranging from sticking
with July’s voluntary swap to a so-called hard restructuring,
where investors could be forced to exchange Greek bonds for new
ones at 50 percent of their value, the people said.  Greek two-year notes currently trade at less than 40
percent of face value.  The 440 billion-euro European Financial Stability Facility
has already spent or committed about 160 billion euros,
including loans to Greece that will run for up to 30 years.
Instead of replacing it with the European Stability Mechanism,
which will hold 500 billion euros, in mid-2013, a consensus is
emerging on merging the two funds, the people said.  The ESM will operate with paid-in capital as opposed to the
EFSF, which sells bonds guaranteed by governments.  The 500 billion-euro total was deemed sufficient when
Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  were the primary victims of the
debt crisis. Widening bond spreads in  Italy ,  Spain ,  Belgium  and
France upended that calculation.  Credit Lines  Standard & Poor’s  said France is among euro-region
sovereigns likely to be downgraded in a stressed economic
scenario. The sovereign ratings of Spain, Italy, Ireland and
Portugal would also be reduced by another one or two levels in
either of New York-based S&P’s two stress scenarios, it said in
a report.  The EFSF may be authorized to provide credit lines of as
much as 10 percent of a country’s economy, according to a
proposal prepared for this week’s meetings. By that measure,
credit lines for Spain and Italy, countries that required ECB
support, could reach 270 billion euros ($371 billion).  “EFSF will need to be leveraged up,”  Lael Brainard , the
 U.S. Treasury ’s undersecretary for international affairs, said
to a Senate subcommittee yesterday in  Washington .  Germany  and France, the euro region’s biggest financial
backers, are at odds over how to do that. The fund’s tasks
include recapitalization of banks and buying bonds in primary
and secondary markets.  Franco-German Dispute  France favors creating a bank out of the EFSF, boosting its
financial clout with backing from the ECB, a proposal that
Germany rejects, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told
lawmakers in Berlin this week. French Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  said yesterday that the euro region should agree to use
leverage to make the fund “massive.”  The focus on the lending ceiling came after central bankers
ruled out giving the EFSF a banking license, blocking the most
potent option for scaling it up. France has pushed Germany to go
beyond a less powerful, ECB-backed option of using it to insure
20 percent to 30 percent of new bond issues.  Still, the 280 billion euros left in the EFSF cannot be
wholly committed to bond insurance, since that would drain the
fund to zero, the people said. Instead, finance ministers are
likely to decide on the use of the EFSF’s instruments on a case-
by-case basis, the people said.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy face growing pressure from the U.S. and other
global partners to end the wrangling. Obama and British Prime
Minister  David Cameron  discussed the debt crisis with Merkel and
Sarkozy yesterday on a call.  “ Chancellor Merkel  and President Sarkozy fully understand
the urgency of the issues in the Eurozone,” a White House
statement said. The two plan to meet one-on-one in Brussels
tomorrow on the eve of the first summit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  