-- 
EU Set to Classify Spot Emissions Contract as Financial Instrument

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-10-20T10:00:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/eu-set-to-classify-spot-carbon-emissions-contract-as-financial-instrument.html
The European Union’s regulator
proposed classifying spot carbon-dioxide contracts as financial
instruments to better protect the world’s biggest emissions
market from fraud.  The European Commission proposed today to extend its
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, or Mifid, to cover
spot carbon deals, it said in an e-mailed statement. The EU
wants to enhance supervision of the market after thieves in
January illegally transferred allowances, known as EUAs, valued
at about 20 million euros ($27.4 million) at today’s prices.  “By treating emission allowances as other financial
assets, the proposal extends financial market protection to the
carbon market,” said Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard.
“It will provide further certainty for carbon market
participants as the market grows and matures.”  While carbon futures are already subject to Mifid and the
Market Abuse Directive, contracts for spot delivery, accounting
for about 10 percent of trading, typically aren’t seen as
financial instruments and aren’t bound by the same laws.
Criminals used this regulatory gap to transfer without
authorization about 2 million allowances from companies
including Prague-based CEZ AS.  Exemptions  The proposed revision of Mifid and MAD, including the
provision to cover spot carbon allowances, requires approval
from governments and the European Parliament to become binding.  The draft Mifid regulation offers exemptions from
authorization and compliance duties for individual emitters
buying or selling allowances on their own account, as well as
for entities such as trade associations which provide investment
services in carbon permits, as long as this activity is
ancillary and they are not part of a financial group, according
to the commission, the EU regulatory arm in Brussels.  “If those two conditions are fulfilled, this exemption
will also be available to companies other than financial
intermediaries providing investment services to the group they
are part of,” it said. “Trading venues will not be required to
set position limits with regard to emission allowances.”  The proposed market-abuse regulation will prohibit insider
dealing and market manipulation and oblige some market
participants to disclose inside information.  Disclosure Duty  “The disclosure duty would apply to only those entities,
the activity of which on an individual basis can have material
impact on the price formation of emission allowances or the
consequential risks of insider dealing, ” the commission said.
“In practice, only information concerning the activity of the
largest emitters in the EU ETS, typically belonging to the EU
power sector, can be expected to have a significant impact on
the carbon price formation.”  The ETS is the cornerstone of the EU plan to cut  greenhouse
gases  that scientists blame for  climate change . It imposes
pollution limits on companies including German utility  RWE AG (RWE) 
and  France ’s Electricite de France SA, leading to a cap in 2020
that will be 21 percent below 2005 discharges. Emitters that
produce less carbon dioxide than their quota can sell surplus
allowances, and those exceeding their limits must buy additional
permits or pay a fine of 100 euros per ton of CO2.  Utilities and the International Emissions Trading
Association have expressed doubts about whether reclassifying
spot carbon permits would enhance security and have called on
the commission to design a tailor-made regime for the emissions
market.  To contact the reporter:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  