-- 
EU’s Naked Short Ban on Sovereign CDS Too Late to Be Effective

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-10-20T08:52:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/eu-s-naked-short-ban-on-sovereign-cds-too-late-to-be-effective.html
The European Union’s attempt to ban
the use of credit-default swaps to bet against  government bonds 
for any reason other than hedging may be too late to be
effective.  “Most buyers of sovereign CDS now are genuine holders of
government bond portfolios who are worried about downgrades,”
said Georg Grodzki, the London-based head of credit research at
Legal & General Investment Management, which oversees about $515
billion of assets. “The damage has been done and has become
self perpetuating even without speculative bets.”  Poland , which holds the rotating presidency of the EU, said
it reached the accord with lawmakers from the European
Parliament at a meeting in Brussels on Oct. 18. The agreement,
which still needs the EU’s formal approval, aims to stop traders
speculating on the creditworthiness of states while allowing
banks and investors to hedge their holdings of government bonds.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  is among
European leaders who demanded a ban on so-called naked default-
swap trades on government debt, citing concern the practice
worsened the euro area’s debt crisis. Speculators use the
contracts to benefit as a nation’s creditworthiness declines
because the price of the insurance they offer rises as the
chances of default mount.  Opt Out  Under the deal announced by the EU presidency, national
regulators can suspend the ban if it harms their sovereign debt
markets. Only contracts on the bonds of that country will
benefit from the exemption, meaning an individual jurisdiction
won’t be able to break ranks, said Michael Hampden-Turner, a
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London.  “You wouldn’t be able to get around the ban by using the
opt-out,” he said. “Anyway, once you kill off the market it’s
very difficult to bring it back to life just like that.”  The U.K. Treasury, which helps oversee the City of  London ,
 Europe ’s largest financial center, declined to comment on the
Polish announcement, because the negotiations haven’t been
concluded.  Trading in the contracts may migrate to  New York  and  Hong
Kong , where no restrictions are in place, said Citigroup’s
Hampden-Turner.  “A lot of business won’t be directly curtailed because
clients are outside European jurisdiction,” he said. “A
decline in liquidity still remains a threat to the functioning
of the market, however.”  No Trigger  Default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower fails
to adhere to its debt agreements. The contracts can be triggered
by a reduction in principal or interest, postponement of
payments or a change in the ranking of obligations, according to
the International Swaps & Derivatives Association.  The EU’s attempt to ban the use of the contracts for
speculation coincides with its efforts to write down Greek debt
without triggering the swaps. If successful, it will render
banks’ hedges on government debt ineffective without doing
anything to resolve the sovereign debt crisis, said New York-
based hedge fund manager Peter Tchir.  “Naked short bans are on the way and forced restructuring
that doesn’t trigger a  credit event  is the plan,” Tchir said.
“Crushing the sovereign CDS market out of existence does
nothing to fix the problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  