-- 
EU Targets Commodities, High-Frequency Trading in Rules Overhaul

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-10-20T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/eu-targets-commodities-high-frequency-trading-in-rules-overhaul.html
The European Union is seeking limits
on commodities derivatives and curbs on high-frequency trading
as part of proposals to overhaul the region’s financial-market
rules.  Today’s plans, which also include a crackdown on so-called
dark pools, are aimed at reducing market volatility, increasing
regulatory oversight and promoting competition. Specific
measures include requiring national regulators to either cap the
number of commodity derivative contracts that traders can enter
into, or make “alternative arrangements” with the same effect.  “The crisis serves as a grim reminder of how complex and
opaque some financial activities and products have become,”
 Michel Barnier , the European commissioner responsible for the
proposals, said in an e-mailed statement today. The plans “will
help lead to better, safer and more open financial markets.”  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has demanded steps to curb
commodity derivatives speculation, which he blames for driving
up world food prices. He has made the issue a priority of
 France ’s presidency this year of the Group of 20 nations. The
 Institute of International Finance , an association representing
global lenders, said last month that there was “little
convincing evidence linking financial investment with trends in
commodity prices and volatility.”  Governments and lawmakers at the European Parliament must
now agree on the final version of the proposals before they can
take effect.  Position Limits  Under the plans, the EU would have the power to set
position limits for commodity derivatives across the entire
region if it decided that curbs put in place by national
regulators weren’t working. National supervisors would also be
empowered to impose similar restrictions on other kinds of
derivatives.  High-frequency traders came under increased regulatory
scrutiny following the so-called flash crash in May of last
year, during which the Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly lost
almost 1,000 points.  The EU measures include requiring firms that offer high
frequency or algorithmic trading services to prove that they
have sufficient risk controls in place and to ensure that
clients with direct access to the markets are properly
qualified.  Robust Controls  The safeguards include requiring trading venues to have
“robust controls against problems such as disorderly trading,
erratic price movements, and capacity overload,” the commission
said. “Limits will be placed on how many orders per transaction
participants can place as well as on how far venues may compete
in attracting order flow.”  The EU is seeking to push some dark-pool trading through a
new form of regulated platform known as an “organized trading
facility.” Dark pools, or private venues that don’t display
prices in advance, have been probed by regulators in both the EU
and U.S. because of concerns that their lack of transparency
increases price volatility.  The “seeming eradication” of dark pools is one reason why
investment banks are “one of the clear losers” from the
proposals, Harry Eddis, counsel at law firm Linklaters LLP, said
in an e-mail. The EU’s plans will also increase such banks’
costs, he said.  To promote competition, the proposals would require
exchanges to provide rival clearinghouses with the data they
need to process trades. They would also mandate non-
discriminatory access for clearers and trading venues to indices
and other benchmarks used to determine the value of financial
instruments.  The proposals to overhaul the EU’s Markets in Financial
Instruments Directive, or Mifid, were adopted in tandem with
others to toughen sanctions against market abuse.  Firms that take part in practices such as insider dealing
would face maximum penalties of at least ten percent of annual
sales, with individuals risking top fines of at least 5 million
euros ($6.8 million). Criminal sanctions may also be used
against traders, the commission said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  