-- 
EU Weighs Credit-Ratings Bans for Nations Getting Bailouts

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-10-20T20:21:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/eu-weighs-credit-ratings-bans-for-nations-getting-bailouts-1-.html
The European Union may ban credit-
ratings companies from making assessments of nations receiving
European or international bailouts as part of plans for tougher
regulation of the industry.  “We are actively considering suspending or banning
ratings” in cases where nations are making “full efforts” to
implement assistance programs,  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial services commissioner, told reporters in Brussels
today. The measure may be included in a draft law that Barnier
will present in November.  The EU may also force the companies to disclose the
internal analyses they use when they decide to cut a
government’s rating, according to Barnier, who said that he
wanted to ensure “there is a clear method” behind such
downgrades.  EU governments have criticized decisions by ratings
companies to downgrade Greek, Irish and Portuguese sovereign
debt even though the countries are receiving international
assistance, saying that the decisions are unjustified and
exacerbate the region’s fiscal crisis.  The European Commission said that a four-level cut of
 Portugal ’s credit rating in July by Moody’s Investors Service
added “an additional element of uncertainty” to the country’s
situation.  “Based on news reports” the commission’s planned measures
“appear to include allowing regulators to interfere with
credit-rating agencies’ views and even forbidding CRAs to
publish sovereign ratings,” Daniel Piels, a spokesman for
Moody’s said in a phone interview.  Increase Volatility  “Proposals such as these will undermine investors’
confidence in European credits, disrupt access to  capital
markets  for sovereign and corporate issuers and increase
volatility in the European credit market,” Piels said.  Barnier said today the plans “are not final” and that a
decision still has to be taken on them by the commission. They
would then need to be approved by national governments in the EU
and the European Parliament before they can take effect.  Barnier said last week the measures are likely to include
ways to increase diversity in the ratings market without
creating a new European ratings company.  The Financial Times reported that the EU officials are
considering forcing issuers of financial products in  Europe  to
regularly change the ratings company they use, to open up
competition and avoid conflicts of interest, according to a
draft of the proposal seen by the newspaper.  “The credit ratings agency engaged should not be in place
for more than three years or for more than a year if it rates
more than ten consecutive rated debt instruments of the issuer,”
the newspaper quoted the draft as saying.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 