-- 
European Leaders Set Second Summit Next Week for Euro Rescue

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-10-20T18:39:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/european-leaders-to-hold-second-summit-next-week-for-euro-rescue.html
European Union leaders gridlocked on
how to solve the sovereign debt crisis will hold a second summit
on Oct. 26 in an effort to bridge differences between Germany
and France.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  said in a joint statement that they are seeking
a “global and ambitious” strategy to battle the crisis and
will meet in Brussels on Oct. 22 before European leaders gather
for a meeting there on Oct. 23. They spoke by telephone today.
The date of the second summit was disclosed by the EU in
Brussels.  Merkel canceled a planned speech to parliament in Berlin
tomorrow because of an impasse over proposals to leverage the
European Financial Stability Facility to give it more firepower,
three German lawmakers said today.  “It’s a disappointing development but without any concrete
proposal for increasing the efficiency of the fund the
chancellor can’t present a complete set of proposals tomorrow,”
 Norbert Barthle , the ranking member of Merkel’s Christian
Democratic Union party on parliament’s budget committee, told
reporters. Other lawmakers confirming cancellation of Merkel’s
speech were opposition members Carsten Schneider and Priska Hinz.  “The French want more money from Germany than we are
prepared to shoulder,”  Otto Fricke , the budget spokesman for
Merkel’s Free Democratic Party ally in parliament, told
reporters today.  ECB Role  France and Germany are wrangling over the role of the
 European Central Bank  in tackling  Europe ’s debt crisis. Finance
ministers gather in Brussels tomorrow to set a common strategy,
with European leaders’ summit.  German lawmakers today said they will not sign off on
proposals to enhance the firepower of the EFSF because of the
disagreements.  As the summit approaches, the euro-region’s biggest
financial backers Germany and  France  are still at odds over how
to expand the EFSF’s firepower, accommodating new tools from
precautionary loans to buying bonds in primary and secondary
markets. Draft EFSF guidelines, obtained by Bloomberg News
today, make no mention of how to boost its 440 billion-euro
firepower.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at   markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  