-- 
Franc Gains on Bid for Refuge From Sovereign Debt Turmoil; Euro Fluctuates

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-10-20T21:06:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/euro-drops-versus-dollar-on-concern-summit-will-be-postponed-franc-gains.html
The Swiss franc rallied against all
of its major counterparts on demand for a refuge as  Europe ’s
leaders struggled to achieve a resolution of the region’s
sovereign debt turmoil.  The euro fluctuated versus the dollar after officials
planned a second summit within three days of an Oct. 23 meeting
to approve a plan that may include a combination of rescue
funds. The Canadian and Australian dollars rose against the U.S.
currency as U.S. stocks advanced, spurring some demand for
higher-yielding assets.  “No one really knows exactly what’s going on, and it’s
making people more anxious,” said  Jessica Hoversen , an analyst
at the futures broker MF Global Holdings Ltd. in New York. “You
had a Sunday summit, and now it’s a Wednesday summit.”  The franc strengthened 0.9 percent to 1.2317 per euro at 5
p.m.  New York  time. The Swiss currency rose 1 percent to 89.38
centimes per dollar. The euro rose 0.2 percent to $1.3780 after
earlier dropping as much as 0.8 percent. The U.S. currency was
little changed at 76.80 yen after rising 0.4 percent.  One-month implied volatility on the euro versus the dollar
rose to 15.8 percent, the highest level since Oct. 7, when  Fitch
Ratings  downgraded Spain and  Italy . Implied volatility for the
currencies of the Group of Seven nations increased to 13.3
percent, also the highest since Oct. 7, according to a JPMorgan
Chase & Co. index.  Gain in Stocks  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.5 percent after
dropping as much as 1 percent.  Canada ’s dollar was the best performer after the franc
among the 16 currencies trading versus the greenback. It rose
0.5 percent against its U.S. counterpart to C$1.0154. The Aussie
added 0.1 percent to $1.0231.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy agreed to ask euro-region leaders to assess a
“comprehensive and ambitious” package of measures to address
the debt crisis at a summit this weekend in order to agree on
the measures at a second meeting by Oct. 26, the German
government spokesman Steffen Seibert said via e-mail.  European governments may deploy as much as 940 billion
euros ($1.3 trillion) to contain the debt crisis by combining
the temporary and planned permanent rescue funds, two people
familiar with the discussions said.  Paired-Funds Plan  Negotiations over pairing the two funds accelerated this
week after efforts to leverage the temporary fund ran into
European Central Bank opposition and provoked a clash between
Germany and  France , said the people, who declined to be
identified because a decision rests with political leaders.  “The markets would like to see some conclusion about
what’s going to happen with the euro-zone crisis and how they’re
going to address it,” said  Mark McCormick , a currency
strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. “It’s
the 11th and a half hour.”  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won the backing of a
majority of lawmakers in a second test of support for a new
austerity package. Papandreou secured the backing of at least
151 lawmakers in the 300-seat chamber, an initial tally of votes
in parliament in  Athens  today showed. The result, if confirmed,
would be enough for him to pass the bill.  The franc was the biggest winner today among the 10
developed-nation currencies that are tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, rising 0.9 percent. The
euro dropped 0.1 percent, and the yen fell 0.2 percent.  ‘Buying Pressure’  “Traders have until now been short the Swiss franc and
long the yen, and now they’re trying to square those positions,
which is putting selling pressure on the yen and buying pressure
on the Swiss franc,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency
strategist in New York at Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the
world’s largest custodial bank, with more than $26 trillion in
assets under administration. “The uncertainty in Europe remains
very high, and expectations are all over the place.” A long is
a bet a currency may gain in value.  The franc remained 2.6 percent below the ceiling of 1.20
versus the euro imposed last month by the  Swiss National Bank .
The SNB announced the measure Sept. 6 and resumed purchases of
foreign currencies to curb the franc’s gain, which was
threatening exporters. The currency had rallied 13 percent this
year a day before the central bank imposed the ceiling.  “The Swiss have a risk that they’re going to get totally
buried,” said  John Taylor , chairman and founder of the currency
hedge fund FX Concepts LLC, in a London interview. They “were
looking to buy time and have the euro solve itself, and that
would make this thing very easy for them. But what happens if
the euro doesn’t solve itself, which is what I believe is going
to happen.” Taylor’s firm manages about $5 billion.  Philadelphia Fed  The dollar rose earlier versus the yen after the Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index increased
to 8.7 in October from minus 17.5 last month in the biggest one-
month rebound in 31 years. The median forecast of 58 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey was for a reading of minus 9.4.
Readings greater than zero indicate expansion in the area
covering eastern  Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .  Japan  plans to spend an extra 4 trillion yen ($52 billion)
to cope with a surging yen that could damp an export-led
recovery in the world’s third-largest economy, according to
documents obtained by Bloomberg News.  The yen’s appreciation of almost 6 percent this year versus
the dollar has prompted the government to adopt a multipronged
approach to currency policy. While threatening intervention,
Japanese authorities have offered aid to companies hit by the
yen’s gain and highlighted the lower cost of making overseas
acquisitions. Japan imports about 80 percent of its energy
needs. The  Bank of Japan  has intervened in the  currency market 
three times in the past 13 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  