-- 
European Investment Bank Fees May Increase for First Time in Five Years

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-10-20T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/european-investment-bank-fees-may-post-biggest-jump-since-2007.html
European investment banking fees
next year may rise the most in five years, as lenders are forced
to raise capital and indebted nations such as  Greece  sell
assets, according to Freeman Consulting.  Revenue from arranging mergers, stock, bond and loan sales
in  Europe , the  Middle East  and Africa may climb 14 percent to
$26 billion in 2012, from $22.8 billion in 2011, New York-based
research firm Freeman estimated. It would be the biggest
percentage gain since 2007. Fees derived from Asia Pacific may
be unchanged at about $16.4 billion in 2012 amid dwindling stock
offerings in  China , according to Freeman.  European fees may increase because of “forced
recapitalizations in banks and privatizations by cash strapped
sovereigns,” said Teck-Tjuan Yap, a managing director at
Freeman in  New York .  Banks in Europe may need 100 billion euros ($138 billion)
to 230 billion euros of additional capital to meet new
regulations, according to estimates by Morgan Stanley and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Those that can’t raise enough money through
share sales would be required to take capital from their
governments or the European Union and may face curbs on paying
bonuses and dividends, European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said Oct. 12.  Regain Confidence  European leaders will consider the plans at a meeting in
Brussels Oct. 23 before the Group of 20 leaders meet in Cannes
on Nov. 3-4. Meanwhile, countries including Greece, Spain and
Italy, seeking to curb their debt to regain investor confidence,
will be forced to sell assets, potentially boosting investment
banking commissions.  Some bankers aren’t convinced of an investment banking boom
next year.  “The bank capitalization side of the equation is going to
be big,” said Philip Keevil, a partner at New York-based
advisory firm Compass Advisers LLP. “The problem is that there
are no initial public offerings being done, the high yield
market is dead and the mergers and acquisitions market is at a
very low ebb. I’m very skeptical of a bonanza coming.”  Fees for so-called rights offerings, or sales of shares to
existing investors, averaged at around 3 percent in 2009 when
lenders including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  sold stock to replenish
capital. Companies in Europe, the Middle East and Africa raised
a record $127 billion in rights offers in 2009, indicating
securities firms may have earned $3.8 billion in arrangement
fees, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Lower Growth  In 2011 “I expect full year volumes to exceed last year’s,
subject to a positive resolution of some key decisions by the
European Union in the coming days,” said Stephan Leithner, co-
head of investment banking coverage and advisory at  Deutsche
Bank AG. (DBK)  “Cross-border M&A in particular has proven robust,
even in the most recent turbulent markets,” he said. The value
of M&A in Europe has risen 20 percent this year to date to
$769.8 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The European Commission on Sept. 15 cut its euro-region
growth forecasts for the second half and warned the economy may
come “close to standstill at year-end.” The  International
Monetary Fund  in  Washington  on Sept. 20 also lowered its growth
projections for the euro region, Germany and France for this
year and next.  “It takes a broader pick-up in confidence in the wider
economy to spark a notable jump in fees,” said  Matthew Clark , a
London-based bank analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd.
“That’s going to take some time, months not weeks.” Fees may
rise by about 10 percent, he said.  Deutsche Bank this year earned $972 million in commission,
the most in the region since 2007, followed by JPMorgan Chase &
Co. with $920 million and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  with $735
million, according to Freeman. Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank
earned more than a third of its fees from bond sales, followed
by M&A and equity offerings, the results show.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  