-- 
European Stocks May Look Cheap Following Debt-Crisis Deal, BlackRock Says

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-10-20T10:47:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/european-stocks-unattractive-until-crisis-solved-blackrock-says.html
European policy makers must deliver
on plans to resolve the debt crisis before the region’s equities
become attractive investments, according to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the
world’s biggest money manager.  “What we need to see is a resolution to the sovereign debt
crisis in Europe and some details on how politicians plan to
launch the bank rescue plan before we can judge if the market
offers a meaningful buying opportunity,” Zehrid Osmani, the
Edinburgh-based co-manager of BlackRock’s BGF European Fund,
which has about $3 billion under management, said in a phone
interview. “We do see pockets of value, but valuation alone is
not going to stabilize the market.”  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index has advanced for the
past three weeks amid optimism euro-area policy makers will
contain the region’s debt crisis. The gauge dropped 0.3 percent
to 236.05 at 11:47 a.m. in  London  today. The index is trading at
10.1 times the estimated earnings of its companies, compared
with the two-year low of 9.1 reached on Sept. 23, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Group of 20 finance ministers and central bank governors
concluded talks last weekend in Paris by endorsing parts of an
emerging European plan to avoid a Greek default, bolster banks
and curb contagion. The proposals, which have yet to be made
public, include writing down Greek bonds by as much as 50
percent, establishing a backstop for banks and boosting the
strength of the 440 billion-euro ($607 billion) temporary rescue
fund known as the European Financial Stability Facility, people
familiar with the matter said.  Earnings Season  Sixty percent of the 28 companies in the Stoxx 600 to have
released earnings since Oct. 11 have reported profit that missed
analyst estimates, data compiled by Bloomberg show. On Oct. 14,
Infineon Technologies AG,  Europe ’s second-largest chipmaker,
warned profitability and sales will decline this quarter as the
debt crisis makes clients more reluctant to spend.  “It’s going to be an important reporting season,” Osmani
said. “We will start seeing signs of the slowdown in some of
the more cyclically exposed sectors, especially sectors higher
up in the food-chain such as materials in particular and some
industrials.”  European companies have yet to cut profit forecasts enough
to match the slower economic growth BlackRock expects in 2011
and 2012, Osmani said. Even so, earnings should increase by a
“mid-single digit” percentage as demand from emerging markets
supports income, he said.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s largest oil company, is the
biggest holding in Osmani’s portfolio, making up 4 percent of
the BGF European Fund. Other investments include Rio Tinto
Group, the world’s second-biggest mining company, and  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,
 Germany ’s largest drugmaker, which make up 3.4 percent and 2.7
percent of the fund, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  