-- 
European Stocks Drop as Leaders Split; Actelion, Schneider Fall

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-10-20T12:21:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/european-stock-index-futures-drop-akzo-nobel-nestle-may-move-at-the-open.html
European stocks declined for the
third time in four days as splits emerged among the euro area’s
leaders on a plan to end the debt crisis. Asian shares fell,
while U.S. index futures advanced.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  sank the most in more than 18 months as
 Europe ’s largest biotechnology company said it expects drug
sales to decrease next year.  Schneider Electric SA (SU) , the world’s
biggest maker of low- and medium-voltage equipment, plunged 7.1
percent after trimming its 2011 profit target.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  led
technology shares higher after reporting a smaller loss than
analysts had forecast.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 0.3 percent to
236.05 at 1:20 p.m. in  London . The measure has still rallied 9.8
percent from this year’s low on Sept. 22 amid speculation policy
makers will find a resolution to Europe’s fiscal woes. The MSCI
Asia Pacific Index tumbled 1.7 percent today, while Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index futures climbed 0.6 percent.  “The markets demand a solution now,” said Ben Hauzenberger, a Zurich-based  fund manager  at Swisscanto Asset
Management AG, which oversees $53 billion. “The current flight-
to-quality behavior of investors shows just how little
confidence they have.”  Crisis-Fighting Effort  Euro-area leaders meet on Oct. 23, with disagreement over
the  European Central Bank ’s role threatening to hinder progress
on the banking and economic questions needed to deliver the
comprehensive strategy demanded by global policy makers. While
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  this week sought to lower
expectations that the crisis-fighting effort would climax at the
summit in Brussels, Group of 20 finance chiefs last week set the
meeting as a deadline for action.  “Sunday will be a day of suspense,” Hauzenberger said.
“Whether success will replace failure is unclear.”  French President Nicolas Sarkozy flew to  Frankfurt  for an
impromptu meeting last night with Merkel, the ECB’s President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  and International Monetary Fund Director
 Christine Lagarde . Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs the group of euro-area finance ministers,
indicated the gathering failed to resolve differences. “We are
still meeting,” he said as he departed.  “It appears that we might still be some miles away from a
general agreement on that plan,” said Jean-Paul Jeckelmann,
chief investment officer at Banque Bonhote & Cie. in Neuchatel,
Switzerland, who helps manage $1.4 billion in equities. “It
seems that going into the weekend, the odds are investors are
placed for disappointment.”  EFSF Changes  The euro area may offer “massive” credit lines to
countries such as Italy and  Spain , according to draft guidelines
for the Oct. 23 summit. The European Financial Stability
Facility may offer as much as 10 percent of a member states’
gross domestic product in precautionary aid “before they face
difficulties raising funds” in bond markets, the draft shows.  The  Federal Reserve ’s Beige Book survey released late
yesterday showed companies reported more doubt about the
recovery even as the economy maintained its expansion last
month. Many Fed districts described the pace of growth as
“modest” or “slight” in September.  Actelion, Schneider  Actelion plunged 11 percent to 30.22 Swiss francs, the
biggest slump since March 2010, after it said product sales will
fall in the low- to mid-single digit range next year in local
currencies. The company cited increased pricing pressure and
competition in the U.S.  Schneider Electric  tumbled 7.1 percent to 41.43 euros. The
company trimmed its 2011 profit target for the second time in
four months on rising labor costs in emerging economies and said
it may cut jobs. Earnings before interest, taxes and
amortization will probably account for about 14 percent of
revenue this year, down from a July forecast of about 15
percent, it said.  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest mining company,
slipped 2.5 percent to 3,058.5 pence as copper dropped for a
fourth day in London trading.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  lost 2.5 percent to
853 pence, while Fresnillo Plc slid 3.2 percent to 1,506 pence.  Nexans SA (NEX) , the second-biggest maker of cables, sank 4.8
percent to 44.25 euros after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut the
stock to “sell” from “neutral.”  Mondi Plc (MNDI) , Europe’s largest maker of office paper, dropped
5.6 percent to 455.6 pence as Lars Kjellberg, an analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG, cut the company’s shares to
“underperform” from “neutral.”  Nokia Shares Rally  Nokia pushed a gauge of technology shares to its highest
level in 2 1/2 months, soaring 8.6 percent to 4.87 euros, the
biggest gain in two months. The Finnish maker of mobile phones
reported a smaller-than-estimated loss and forecast a profitable
quarter for the handset business.  Ericsson AB, the world’s largest maker of wireless  network
equipment , rose 6.2 percent to 69.55 kronor after the company
said third-quarter net income climbed to 3.82 billion kronor
($580 million) from 3.68 billion kronor a year earlier. That
topped the 3.66 billion-krona estimate of 21 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  Logitech International SA (LOGN) , the world’s biggest maker of
computer mice, rallied 5 percent to 7.47 Swiss francs and
Alcatel-Lucent rose 2.2 percent to 2 euros.  Akzo Advances  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA)  gained 3.1 percent to 35.97 euros. The
world’s largest paintmaker said it plans an overhaul of its
household coatings businesses in the U.S. and Europe and other
units to help cut costs and boost earnings by 500 million euros
by 2014. The maker of Dulux and Glidden paints also said it will
reorganize wood finishes and adhesive operations to strengthen
its competitiveness.  Petropavlovsk Plc (POG) , a Russian gold mining company, rallied
4.7 percent to 706.5 pence after it said third-quarter output
jumped 65 percent after production increased at its Pioneer
site. So-called attributable gold output climbed 228,100 ounces
from 138,300 ounces a year earlier, the London-based company
said. Petropavlovsk also reaffirmed its 600,000-ounce full-year
forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  