-- 
European Officials Said to See Market Risk in Greek Bondholder Debt Swap

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-10-21T07:19:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/european-officials-said-to-see-market-risk-in-greek-bondholder-debt-swap.html
European Union officials weighing
deeper losses for Greek bondholders in a revamped bailout are
concerned that any investor involvement risks further roiling
markets, say people familiar with the EU’s deliberations.  Greece  has accumulated at least 20 billion euros ($27
billion) in additional financing needs since a 159 billion-euro
package was set in July, because of a deepening recession and
delays in enacting the plan, said the people, who declined to be
identified because euro-area leaders have yet to agree on their
strategy.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor
Angela Merkel yesterday demanded “immediate talks” with
investors to reduce Greece’s debt load. The EU is considering
five scenarios, ranging from sticking with July’s voluntary swap
to a so-called hard restructuring, where investors could be
forced to exchange Greek bonds for new ones at 50 percent of
their value, the people said.  Greek two-year notes currently trade at less than 40 percent
of face value.  “Debt sustainability has effectively deteriorated, given
delays in the recovery, in fiscal consolidation and in the
privatization plan, as well as the perspective of bank
recapitalizations,” according to a draft report by the European
Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the  International
Monetary Fund , a group known as the troika.  Greek Writedowns  Further writedowns of Greek debt, which the government in
Athens forecasts at 172 percent of gross domestic product next
year, may be part of a strategy set at an Oct. 23 summit that
includes a bank-recapitalization plan and an expansion of the
euro’s 440 billion-euro rescue fund. Wrangling over the details
forced the scheduling of another summit three days later.  Finance ministers, who kick off the marathon deliberations
today in Brussels, are divided over how to increase the fund’s
firepower. In Greece, Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won a
parliamentary vote late yesterday on further austerity measures
designed to secure more aid under the 2010 bailout.  European governments may unleash as much as 940 billion
euros to fight the debt crisis, seeking to break a deadlock
between Germany and  France . Negotiations on combining the EU’s
temporary and planned permanent rescue funds as of mid-2012,
while scrapping a ceiling on bailout spending, accelerated this
week after efforts to leverage the temporary fund ran into ECB
opposition and provoked the French-German clash, two people
familiar with the discussions said.  European Brinkmanship  Euro-area brinkmanship indicates a “risk that the post-
summit announcements will suggest an ambitious program at a high
level but lack concrete detail on implementation,” said Huw Pill, London-based chief European economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. “Given previous experience, markets are unlikely to
be very tolerant of such an outcome.”  Officials are concerned that any kind of debt swap would
worsen financing conditions for the other nations. This kind of
contagion also adds pressure on non-Greek banks because of their
exposure to this wider set of countries.  Banks are resisting taking losses deeper than those agreed
to in July. That plan includes up to 35 billion in high-quality
collateral for the investors, who would take a 21 percent
reduction in their holdings’ net present value.  One option involves a swap with no collateral of any kind
in the hard restructuring. Other plans involve an exchange with
a 50 percent reduction in net present value, or upfront bond
exchanges into either EFSF bonds or new 30-year Greek government
debt, the people said. Upfront exchanges could involve a 50
percent discount off face value.  Remain Voluntary  Creditors’ participation needs to remain voluntary,
Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter told reporters Oct. 18.
“A forced restructuring means default, in which credit default
swaps are triggered, and that means billions around the world
that have to be financed,” she said. “Everybody wants to avoid
that.”  The scenarios being discussed don’t specify how long the
program will last and the pace of other elements of Greece’s
rescue, like budget reforms and a privatization plan to raise
money by selling state assets, the people said. Greek banks will
need more capital under all scenarios, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 