-- 
Euro-Area Consumer Confidence Drops to Lowest Since August 2009

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-10-20T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/euro-area-consumer-confidence-drops-to-lowest-since-august-2009.html
European  consumer confidence  dropped
for a fourth month in October to the lowest in more than two
years, adding to signs of a deepening economic slowdown.  An index of household sentiment in the 17-nation euro area
fell to minus 19.9 from minus 19.1 in September, the Brussels-
based European Commission said in an initial estimate today.
That’s the lowest since August 2009. Economists forecast a drop
to minus 20, the median of 29 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey showed.  European households are growing more pessimistic as the
region’s debt crisis threatens to hurt economic growth and  job
creation . In Germany, Europe’s largest economy, investor
confidence dropped more than economists forecast in October.
 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s largest maker
of  luxury goods , said Oct. 18 that sales in Europe trailed
revenues in markets including Asia and the U.S.  “Business climate and consumer sentiment indicators are in
an unchecked downtrend,” said Jan Amrit Poser, chief economist
at Bank Sarasin in Zurich. “If this trend continues next month,
recession seems unavoidable.”  The  European Central Bank  has cut its growth forecasts for
this year and next to 1.6 percent and 1.3 percent, respectively.
European services industries contracted in September, German
investor confidence plunged to the lowest in almost three years
this month and the commission forecast the recovery may come
“close to standstill at year-end.”  The commission is scheduled to publish its monthly report
on euro-area economic confidence, which includes the consumer-
confidence gauge, on Oct. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  