-- 
Ex-Louis Berger Group President Charged With False Claims

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-10-20T20:03:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/ex-louis-berger-group-chairman-wolff-indicted-for-fraud-by-u-s-.html
The former president and chief
executive officer of Louis Berger Group Inc., a  New Jersey 
engineering consulting firm, was charged with overbilling the
U.S. government on overseas reconstruction projects.  Derish Wolff, 76, was accused of conspiring to defraud the
U.S. Agency for International Development by inflating overhead
and other indirect costs over almost two decades on hundreds of
millions of dollars in contracts in Iraq and Afghanistan. He
surrendered today to the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  in
Newark, New Jersey.  “During decades at the helm of a company entrusted with
the rebuilding of battle-scarred nations Derish Wolff focused on
profits over progress,” U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said in a
statement. “Wolff allegedly used his position to lead others in
the scheme, setting targets that could be reached only through
fraud.”  The indictment follows an agreement by the company on Nov.
5 to pay $69.3 million to resolve criminal and civil probes
related to overbilling for reconstruction contracts in Iraq and
 Afghanistan  and other work. Two former executives also pleaded
guilty that day in federal court in Newark.  Wolff was charged with conspiring with Salvatore Pepe, the
former chief financial officer, and Precy Pellettieri, the
former controller, who admitted to conspiring to defraud USAID.
The Wolff indictment, unsealed today, doesn’t specify a specific
amount of loss by the government.  Miami Resident  Wolff, a resident of Miami and Bernardsville, New Jersey,
appeared in federal court in Newark, where he was released on
$1 million bail. He faces as long as 10 years in prison on the
conspiracy charge and five years on each of five counts of
filing false claims.  “Mr. Wolff intends to plead not guilty because he is not
guilty, and he looks forward to establishing it in court,” his
attorney, Herbert Stern, said in a phone interview.  The company, based in Morristown, New Jersey, admitted to
filing claims for more than $10 million in inflated overhead
rates to USAID. The company agreed to pay an $18.7 million
criminal penalty and $50.6 million to resolve civil claims,
including allegations it violated the  False Claims Act . The U.S.
examined billings over a 17-year period.  From at least 1990 through 2009, Wolff intentionally
overbilled USAID and ordered subordinates to achieve an overhead
target rate “through a variety of fraudulent means,” according
to the Fishman statement.  ‘Below Wolff’s Target’  At a Louis Berger annual meeting in September 2001, Pepe
presented an overhead rate that was “significantly below
Wolff’s target,” Fishman said. In response, “Wolff denounced
Pepe, called him an ‘assassin’ of the overhead rate,” and told
him to target a rate of $1.40 in overhead expenses for every
$1 of labor devoted to the USAID contract, according to the
Fishman statement.  Wolff was the president and CEO of Louis Berger Group from
1982 until 2002 and chairman of Berger Group Holdings Inc.,
which owns Louis Berger Group, from 2002 until August 2010,
according to the indictment.  “The individuals associated with the government’s
allegations are no longer with the company,” Louis Berger Group
said in a statement. “The company has enacted substantial
remediation to its accounting internal controls, made
significant changes in personnel, and upgraded the company’s
administrative and accounting expertise while under U.S.
government oversight.”  The case is U.S. v. Wolff, U.S. District Court, District of
New Jersey ( Newark ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 