-- 
Televisa Gains Most in a Year as Broadcast Advertising Sales Recover

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-10-20T14:58:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/mexico-s-televisa-reports-third-quarter-net-income-of-2-05-billion-pesos.html
Grupo Televisa SA (TLEVICPO) , the world’s
largest Spanish-language broadcaster, gained the most in a year
after its advertising sales overcame the absence of  Carlos Slim ’s business and World Cup soccer broadcasts.  Third-quarter advertising sales in the broadcast division,
Televisa’s largest unit, rose 2.4 percent to 6 billion pesos
($444.8 million), compared with the estimate of 5.95 billion
pesos by Gregorio Tomassi, an analyst at Banco Santander SA.
Advertising sales had declined from a year earlier in the
previous two quarters.  Soccer tournaments such as the  Copa America  helped the unit
sell more advertising than last year, when Televisa aired the
World Cup finals. Televisa is counting on other large customers
after Slim’s companies pulled their advertisements at the
beginning of this year because of a pricing dispute, said
Executive Vice President Alfonso de Angoitia.  “The investment in advertising by our core, long-lasting
client base remains strong,” de Angoitia said today on a
conference call. “Televisa’s over-the-air network continues to
be their preferred advertising vehicle.”  Televisa rose 5.6 percent to 55.7 pesos at 10:57 a.m. in
 Mexico  City after earlier gaining as much as 6 percent, the
biggest intraday gain since Oct. 5, 2010.  Net income dropped to 2.05 billion pesos from 2.2 billion
pesos a year earlier, Mexico City-based Televisa said yesterday
in a statement. Sales rose 8.1 percent to 16 billion pesos,
compared with the 15.8 billion peso average estimate of four
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘High-Level Fights’  “Results beat on many important measures, which should help
quiet some concerns of the high-level fights between Televisa
and Carlos Slim and his entities,”  David Joyce , an analyst at
Miller Tabak & Co. in  New York , said in a research note today.
He advises buying the shares.  Televisa’s cable-TV unit is offering phone and Internet
service to compete with Slim’s Telefonos de Mexico SAB, the
nation’s largest phone company. The companies have each filed
antitrust complaints against the other this year as they jockey
for position in Mexico’s telecommunications market.  Net income included a 389-million peso foreign-exchange
loss, a non-cash charge reflecting the value of its debt in
foreign currency. The peso slid 16 percent against the dollar
between June 30 and Sept. 30, the second-worst performer among
 Latin America ’s top currencies after  Brazil ’s real, on concern
that Mexico’s economy would falter as its biggest trading
partner, the U.S., struggled to expand.  Satellite Subscriptions  Televisa is diversifying beyond its over-the-air
broadcasting business to tap into growing demand for pay-TV
service in Mexico, where about 40 percent of households have a
cable or satellite subscription, according to government data.
Broadcast revenue has slowed as viewers turn to cable channels
and the Internet for entertainment.  Televisa last year recorded a gain of 513 million pesos
from the sale of its stake in airline Volaris, a one-time
benefit that inflated profits compared with this year’s income.  Satellite subscriptions rose by 238,205 to 3.82 million,
and the three cable carriers controlled by Televisa added almost
34,000 TV customers for a total of 2.12 million. The carriers
are Cablemas SA, Empresas Cablevision SAB and Television
Internacional SA.  ((Televisa held a conference call today to discuss third-
quarter results. To listen to a replay, dial 1-855-859-2056 from
the U.S. or +1-404-537-3406 from outside the U.S. and use the
code 18392651.))  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  