-- 
Failed Bank’s Shabudin, Yu Plead Not Guilty in Fraud Case

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   P a m e l a   M a c L e a n
-- 
2011-10-20T22:31:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/failed-bank-s-shabudin-yu-plead-not-guilty-in-fraud-case-1-.html
Former United Commercial Bank
executives Ebrahim Shabudin and Thomas Yu pleaded not guilty to
hiding loan losses from auditors and investors in the failed San
Francisco-based bank.  Shabudin, a former chief credit officer, and Yu, a former
credit risk manager, were charged by federal prosecutors with
six counts including  securities fraud . The pair and Thomas Wu,
the bank’s former chief executive officer, were also sued by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and accused of hiding
$65 million in loan losses before the bank collapsed.  Shabudin and Yu were the first senior bank officials
charged with fraud at a financial institution that got money
from the government’s Troubled Assets Relief Program, known as
TARP. The program was meant to shore up financial institutions
hit with losses from property loans and mortgage-backed
securities.  United Commercial received $298 million from TARP in
November 2008 after Yu and Shabudin manipulated books and
records to conceal the amount of bad loans and avoid publicly
reporting losses, according to a Sept. 15 indictment.  The losses came after United Commercial almost doubled its
lending portfolio to $8 billion in 2007 from 2004, prosecutors
said.  In September 2008 Yu, of  San Ramon ,  California , and
Shabudin, of Moraga, California, began manipulating books and
records to conceal nonperforming loans and avoid publicly
reporting losses from bad loans, according to the government.
The executives hid the fact that loan collateral and repossessed
property had declined in value, the government said.  False Statements  Their conduct caused the bank to issue false and misleading
information through a press release, an earnings call and its
annual report in early 2009, prosecutors said.  The bank failed in November of that year and was taken over
by the government, which has paid out $397 million. The failure
has cost the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s insurance fund
$2.5 billion, the SEC said in its complaint. No TARP funds have
been repaid.  United Commercial was one of the 10 biggest  bank failures 
to result from the 2008 credit crisis, the SEC said. The bank
was acquired in 2009 by East  West Bank , based in  Pasadena ,
California, which paid the FDIC a premium of 1.1 percent for the
right to assume $7.5 billion of United Commercial’s deposits.  Shabudin and Yu were released today after the judge ordered
them each to post a $500,000 property bond. The next court
hearing is scheduled for Nov. 4.  The criminal case is U.S. v Shabudin, 3:11-cr-00664, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).
The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Wu,
4:11-cv-04988, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (Oakland).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Pamela MacLean in San Francisco at  pmaclean@pacbell.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  