-- 
FBI Documents Show Agency Uses Stereotypes to Target Minorities, ACLU Says

-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 
2011-10-20T21:10:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/fbi-using-stereotypes-to-target-u-s-minorities-aclu-says-1-.html
The FBI is targeting ethnic and
racial communities in the U.S. for investigation based on
stereotypes about which groups commit crimes, the  American Civil
Liberties Union  said.  The civil liberties group today released  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  documents it obtained using public records
requests showing the bureau collected demographic data. The
documents, which included sections that were redacted by the
FBI, didn’t indicate that any specific investigation was opened
as a result of the data.  The FBI’s tactics are unconstitutional and ineffective, the
civil liberties group said in a statement.  “The FBI has targeted minority American communities around
the country for investigation based not on suspicion of actual
wrongdoing, but on the crudest stereotypes about which groups
commit different types of crimes,” said Hina Shamsi, director
of the New York-based ACLU’s national security project, in a
statement.  The FBI said it had done nothing wrong and that it opposes
racial or ethnic discrimination. The FBI is seeking to address
specific threats, not to target communities, said Michael Kortan, an FBI spokesman, in a statement.  Finding Connections  “Certain terrorist and criminal groups are comprised of
persons primarily from a particular ethnic or geographic
community, which must be taken into account when trying to
determine if there are threats to the  United States ,” Kortan
said.  “Putting data that is lawfully collected into maps
sometimes allows connections to be identified that might
otherwise go unnoticed,” Kortan said.  FBI documents provided by the ACLU show the bureau sought
to collect information on Muslims in  Michigan , blacks in Georgia
and Chinese- and Russian-Americans in  California  and Latino
communities in several states.  Michigan’s “large Middle-Eastern and Muslim population”
made it “prime territory for attempted radicalization and
recruitment” by terror groups, according to a July 2009
memorandum issued by the FBI’s Detroit field office.  A June 2009 memo on “Asian-Eurasian Criminal Enterprise
Assessment” from the agency’s  San Francisco  field office said
“there has been organized crime for generations” within its
Chinese community and the area’s “sizable Russian population.”  FBI training materials also incorrectly portray Arab and
Muslim communities as “violent and supporters of terrorism,”
the ACLU said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  