-- 
Bullard Says Inflation’s Failure to Slow Makes Him Nervous

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-10-20T19:02:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/fed-s-bullard-says-inflation-s-failure-to-slow-makes-him-nervous.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said inflation persisting at high levels
amid a weak labor market gives him pause about his forecast for
an eventual slowing in price measures.  “We are definitely not at target” for total inflation,
Bullard told reporters today during an economic conference at
the bank. “I am a bit concerned about price pressures in the
U.S. It is making me nervous that we haven’t seen that turn
around so far.”  Bullard urged policy makers to wait until 2012 before
considering additional stimulus because recent reports have
indicated growth picked up in the third quarter, reducing the
risk of recession, and consumer price inflation has been above
the Fed’s implicit target of about 2 percent. Prices including
food and fuel increased 3.9 percent in the 12 months ended
September, the biggest year-over-year increase since September
2008, the Labor Department said yesterday.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  has used unconventional
policy instruments at its last two meetings to try to bring down
an  unemployment rate  stuck near 9 percent or higher for 30
consecutive months. In August the central bank pledged to hold
 interest rates  near zero until mid-2013, and in September the
Fed announced it would swap $400 billion of short-term debt for
longer-term securities in a bid to lower borrowing costs.  ‘Wait and See’  “It is reasonable to wait and see how the Twist policy
affects the economy,” Bullard said, referring to September’s
so-called Operation Twist measure. “Given that the tone of the
data has been better, you want to get into next year” before
you consider more action.  Bullard said he would oppose a communications policy that
ties an eventual interest-rate increase in part to the level of
joblessness because monetary policy doesn’t directly affect
employment.  Europe  has suffered high unemployment caused by
elements other than weak demand for years, he said.  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  is calling for the Fed
to keep the target for the benchmark U.S. interest rate near
zero until either unemployment falls below 7 percent or the
medium-term inflation outlook rises above 3 percent.  Instead, Bullard said quantitative easing, or purchases of
securities, would be “our most potent action, and I would not
rule out QE if there were further deterioration in the U.S.,”
he said. “I think QE is still on the table.”  Bullard, 50, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year,
joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in 1990 and
became president of the regional bank in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  