-- 
Tarullo Says Fed Should Consider New Purchases of Mortgage Debt

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-10-21T04:05:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/fed-s-tarullo-says-central-bank-should-weigh-resuming-mortgage-purchases.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo ’s call for resuming large-scale purchases of mortgage
bonds may boost chances the central bank will start a third
round of asset buying aimed at reviving U.S. growth.  Policy makers should move the tool “back up toward the top
of the list” because it would help the economy through lower
mortgage costs that would boost home purchases and spending by
people who refinance their home loans, Tarullo said late
yesterday in a speech in New York.  The comments may reflect the thinking of other policy
makers without yet indicating that Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and
a majority of officials support an option the Fed stepped away
from in early 2010, said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Tarullo joins St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  and  Eric Rosengren  of Boston in discussing the
possibility of further asset purchases.  “Bernanke’s probably very sympathetic with a lot of the
reasoning that went into this talk,” said Feroli, a former Fed
researcher who is based in New York. At the same time, “I
suspect he might have some reservations about wanting to expand
the balance sheet.”  Fed policy makers last expanded their balance sheet with
the $600 billion in Treasury purchases in the second round of
so-called quantitative easing that lasted from November 2010 to
June 2011.  The Fed has used unconventional tools twice since then. In
August, it pledged to hold interest rates near zero until at
least mid-2013, and last month the central bank said it would
swap $400 billion of short-term debt in its portfolio for
longer-term securities in order to bring down interest rates, a
strategy dubbed Operation Twist.  Record Stimulus  The  Federal Open Market Committee  is considering increasing
its record stimulus to spur the recovery and bring down an
 unemployment rate  stuck near 9 percent for 30 months. Other
options under consideration including tying the near-zero
interest-rate pledge to specific levels of economic data such as
inflation and unemployment, minutes of last month’s meeting
showed. The FOMC next meets in  Washington  Nov. 1-2 and Dec. 13.  “Without more, the harm to the unemployed and their
families continues, and the risks of longer-term harm increase -
- both to the unemployed and to the country as a whole,”
Tarullo said.  Tarullo, 58, is the first policy maker to publicly and
explicitly call for the resumption of purchases of mortgage
securities, such as those carried out by the central bank from
January 2009 through March 2010 to combat the recession.  ‘Most Potent Action’  Bullard told reporters yesterday in  St. Louis  that
securities purchases would be “our most potent action, and I
would not rule out QE if there were further deterioration in the
U.S.”  Rosengren said in an Oct. 19 interview with CNBC that “if
the economy were to be weaker than most people are forecasting,
that would certainly be cause for doing additional monetary
policy,” and more asset purchases are “certainly a
possibility.” He said in a separate interview with the Wall
Street Journal that the Fed should consider purchasing assets
including mortgage debt, according to the newspaper.  “MBS purchases are worth considering as a monetary policy
option precisely because they carry the promise of addressing
the feature of the current aggregate demand shortfall that
differs from typical recessions and recoveries,” Tarullo said
in remarks at Columbia University’s World Leaders Forum.  Next Step  Drew Matus , senior U.S. economist at UBS Securities LLC in
Stamford,  Connecticut , said Tarullo’s talk is in line with
Matus’s forecast that the eventual next step for the Fed will be
a third round of asset buying totaling $1 trillion to $1.5
trillion of Treasuries and MBS over six to nine months.  “There’s still a pretty high bar there,” said Matus, who
formerly worked at the  New York  Fed. Policy makers probably want
to wait to see how the European sovereign-debt crisis plays out,
he said.  The public may get more clarity on the FOMC’s options soon.
Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  is scheduled today to give a talk on
monetary policy in Denver, while New York Fed President  William Dudley , who serves as FOMC vice chairman, speaks Oct. 24 on the
economy in the Bronx, New York.  Any decision to expand the Fed’s $2.86 trillion balance
sheet may spark opposition within the central bank and a fresh
wave of political criticism from Republicans. Most of the
party’s presidential candidates have found fault with Bernanke
or the Fed, while Republican lawmakers, including House Speaker
 John Boehner  of  Ohio , sent a letter to Fed officials last month
urging them to forgo additional easing.  Inflation Concerns  Some officials at the Fed’s Sept. 20-21 policy meeting
wanted to keep further asset purchases as an option to boost the
economy, minutes of the session showed. Those opposing an
expansion of the Fed’s balance sheet said it “would be more
likely to raise inflation and inflation expectations than to
stimulate economic activity,” the minutes said.  Tarullo, responding to audience questions after his speech
yesterday, said the Fed has a “responsibility” to act “if we
see an environment where there’s such a shortfall of aggregate
demand.”  Tarullo, who joined the Fed’s Board of Governors in January
2009 as President Barack Obama’s first appointee to the central
bank, spoke of the “despair and desperation that workers and
their families must feel as weeks of unemployment stretch into
months and even years.”  Worked for Clinton  An attorney, Tarullo worked for the late Democratic Senator
Ted Kennedy in the 1980s, served in the Clinton Administration
in the 1990s and advised Obama’s 2008 presidential campaign. He
has helped lead the Fed’s efforts to tighten oversight of large
financial companies.  The Fed bought $1.25 trillion of mortgage-backed securities
as part of the $1.7 trillion first round of so-called
quantitative easing, which also included purchases of Treasuries
and other housing-related debt, the direct obligations of  Fannie
Mae ,  Freddie Mac  and the  Federal Home Loan Banks .  Last month, the Fed last decided to start reinvesting
proceeds from maturing housing debt into mortgage-backed
securities, switching from Treasuries.  The average  interest rate  on a 30-year fixed-rate home loan
has declined to 4.11 percent in the week ended yesterday from
5.05 percent in February and reached a record low of 3.94
percent earlier this month.  Home Sales Fall  Still, sales of previously owned homes fell 3 percent last
month to a 4.91 million annual rate, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed yesterday. The median price
dropped 3.5 percent from a year ago.  Tarullo dismissed criticism that the central bank shouldn’t
prop up specific parts of the credit market. He said while such
concerns are “understandable in general,” mortgage bonds are
“a widely traded instrument in a sector that appears, now more
than ever, to be central to the slow pace of recovery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  