-- 
Fernandez Wins Over Farm Foes in Cruise to Argentina Re-Election

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-10-20T03:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/fernandez-wins-over-farm-foes-in-cruise-to-argentina-re-election.html
Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  has won over farmers who just three years
ago were blocking roads with tractors to protest higher export
taxes and can count on their support as she seeks re-election on
Oct. 23.  Fernandez was backed by 53 percent of 2,000 people surveyed
Oct. 4-13 by Buenos Aires-based pollster Giacobbe & Asociados.
In an Aug. 14 primary, her coalition won 23 percentage points
more in rural areas like San Pedro than in 2009 legislative
elections, when angry farmers caused her to lose control of
Congress.  The 58-year-old Peronist party leader swayed rural voters
with economic growth that averaged 5.6 percent since 2007 and
may top 8 percent this year, led by increasing soybean and auto
production. Record tax revenue allowed more spending on pensions
and the poor while the government helped unions win wage
increases of more than 30 percent per year to offset
accelerating inflation.  “A lot of people in this town voted for her because they
see that they have a better quality of life, that they can buy a
flat-screen television or a new car,” said cattle rancher Raul
Victores, who in 2008 led roadside protests against Fernandez in
 San Pedro , 165 kilometers (100 miles) from Buenos Aires, and
still opposes her. “They know that international prices for our
commodities have helped us and they praise the government for
that.”  Frontier Economy  The increased backing in rural areas has helped Fernandez
boost her overall support even as some investors remain wary of
 South America ’s second-biggest economy. The country was
downgraded to “frontier” from “emerging market” status by
MSCI Inc., putting it in a  category  with Oman and  Sri Lanka ,
after Fernandez in 2008 nationalized the $24 billion pension
fund industry.  Argentina ’s dollar bonds have returned 9.7 percent since
Fernandez’s 2007 inauguration, compared with 36 percent for
Latin American debt, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.
Peso-denominated debt has returned 16 percent, below the 59
percent gain for Latin American local-currency bonds. Businesses
and individuals pulled $9.8 billion out of the country in the
first half of this year even as policy makers in Brazil took
steps to curb dollar inflows that were pressuring its currency.  Tumbling Reserves  When turbulence from  Greece ’s debt crisis spread this year,
prompting investors to withdraw from riskier markets,
Argentina’s central bank began spending as much as $316 million
per day to defend the peso. Reserves tumbled to $48 billion from
a record $52.6 billion in January as the government sold dollars
and paid off debt using savings.  Independent economists and opposition politicians estimate
annual inflation is about 24 percent, compared with the 9.9
percent reported by the government.  Interest rates  on  bank
deposits  have surged to 18.7 percent, the highest since Jan.
2009, while the peso has fallen 26 percent since Fernandez took
office.  Still, Argentina’s economic growth has lured investments
from Moline, Illinois-based tractor maker  Deere & Co. (DE)  and Milan-
based tire company Pirelli & C. SpA, which plans to invest $300
million in the country. It’s also pushed unemployment down to a
record 7.2 percent in the third quarter from 7.5 percent a year
ago and more than 20 percent when her late husband and
predecessor,  Nestor Kirchner , took office in 2003 in the wake of
the nation’s financial crisis.  ‘Better Prepared’  Fernandez said Argentina’s experience in shunning the
advice of the  International Monetary Fund  after defaulting on a
record $95 billion of bonds in 2001 is a lesson for other
economically struggling countries.  “Today we can tell the Argentine people, amid a world that
is crumbling and that paradoxically insists on applying the same
prescriptions that were tried on us and that led us to the 2001
implosion, that we are better prepared than ever to face a
complex, difficult world,” Fernandez said at an Oct. 18
campaign rally.  Fernandez’s office didn’t respond to messages seeking
comment on her record by Bloomberg News.  In 2010, Fernandez restructured $12.9 billion of bonds
remaining from the 2001 default, bringing the country closer to
being able to sell bonds abroad for the first time in a decade.
Argentina still has $9 billion in defaulted debt outstanding to
the  Paris Club  and holders of about $4.5 billion of defaulted
debt are suing the country.  Soybean Taxes  Without access to international credit markets, Fernandez
has relied on cash from the nationalized pension funds and 35
percent taxes on soybean exports to boost spending on everything
from sewage treatment plants to a program that provides free
 laptop computers  to school children.  The global financial crisis may lead to a drop in commodity
prices that could accelerate a slowdown in Argentina, said  Boris Segura , Latin America strategist at Nomura Securities
International. Segura forecasts that the economy will grow 4
percent in 2012 after a 9.2 percent expansion in 2010.  “The economic model has benefited by an unusually positive
external environment with significant tail winds” Segura said
in a telephone interview from  New York . “The big risk is that
if China and  India  cause a drop in commodity prices, the mood of
the people will change.”  The economy could also take a hit from a slowdown in
 Brazil , its main trading partner, where growth this year and
next is expected to slow to half of the 7.5 percent pace
recorded in 2010.  ‘Investment Shock’  Former President Eduardo Duhalde, who is running against
Fernandez on a rival Peronist ticket, said Argentina needs “an
investment shock” and that the government has failed to boost
production needed to reduce inflation that economists estimate
is more than 20 percent.  “This government has decided to finance consumption and
not production,” said Duhalde, who ran the country at Congress’
behest for 17 months before handpicking a then-unknown Kirchner
to succeed him in 2003. “Argentina has lived through 9 years of
economic growth, but we are now seeing some yellow lights.”  Duhalde, 70, was fifth in the Giacobbe poll with 8 percent
support. Hermes Binner, the socialist Governor of Santa Fe
province, was second with 17 percent of those polled. The survey
had a margin of error of 2.2 percentage points.  To avoid a Nov. 20 runoff, Fernandez needs to win 45
percent of the ballots cast this weekend or 40 percent and a 10
percentage point gap over the second-place finisher.  Street Protests  Fernandez’s 2008 plan to raise taxes on farm exports sent
tens of thousands of Argentines into the streets, causing food
shortages in  Buenos Aires  and pushing global grain prices
higher. The plan was defeated when Vice President Julio Cobos
cast the deciding vote against the proposal in the Senate. Cobos
was replaced on Fernandez’s ticket this year by 48-year-old
Economy Minister  Amado Boudou .  As a sign of her warming relationship with farmers,
Fernandez this week visited the headquarters of Coninagro, one
of the four farm groups that organized protests against her
three years ago. It was the first-ever visit by an Argentine
president, Coninagro’s President Carlos Garetto said Oct. 17.  “The scenario has changed, we are no longer in 2008,”
Garetto said in an interview on Radio 10. “We have to take
advantage of these signals to try to look ahead and get over the
past.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  