-- 
Strikers Make Marchionne Vow to Leave Italy to Rescue Fiat: Cars

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-10-21T08:58:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/fiat-strikers-make-marchionne-vow-to-leave-italy-to-rescue-automaker-cars.html
Caterina Gurzi, an assembly line
worker at a  Fiat SpA (F)  car factory in Turin, Italy, has seen her
share of crises over the past 32 years. The current economic
slump tops them all; she even had to cancel her summer vacation.  “We have never seen something like this before,” said
Gurzi, 55, who is attending a demonstration today in  Rome  to
protest Fiat’s investment plans in Italy after a temporary
layoff cut her salary. “After weakening our rights and
worsening our working conditions, Fiat leaves us with an
uncertain and precarious future.”  Gurzi and thousands of members of Fiom Cgil, the
automaker’s biggest union, walked off the job today as part of a
one-day strike. The protest reflects broader angst spurred by
the European debt crisis, which has increased the urgency to
boost productivity in a country where almost one-third of people
between 15 and 24 years old are unemployed. A rally in Rome,
part of the Occupy Wall Street protests, turned violent on Oct.
15, causing more than 100 injuries and 5 million euros ($7
million) in damages.  Labor organizers are concerned Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  will move production out of Italy, even after
securing concessions from workers, as domestic sales slide and
labor costs remain three times higher than in Poland. By
striking today, they increase that risk, Marchionne said.  Fiat’s Threat  “The strike is a very, very, very bad idea,” Marchionne
told reporters this week in Turin, where Italy’s largest
manufacturer is based. “You are telling someone who wants to
invest in the country that you’re not willing to participate and
you are trying to impose conditions on the investments which you
can’t control.”  The carmaker’s production in Italy is running regularly
during today’s strike, a Fiat spokesman said. The percentage of
workers taking part ranges from 8 percent at the Cassino plant
to 17 percent at Termini Imerese, he said.  Fiat rose as much as 2.8 percent to 4.71 euros and was up
2.1 percent at 10:55 a.m. in Milan, valuing the company at 5.71
billion euros. The shares have dropped 30 percent this year,
making the company the fifth-worst performer on the 15-member
Euro Stoxx Automobiles & Parts Index.  Marchionne doesn’t expect Fiat to recover market share in
 Europe  in the foreseeable future with Italian car sales hitting
a 30-year low in 2011 and no sign that next year will be better,
he said on Oct. 19.  Union Support  Underlining the decline in Italy, analysts estimate that
Fiat’s second-half operating profit will total about half that
of Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S. automaker Fiat saved from
bankruptcy in 2009. Fiat reports earnings on Oct. 28.  Fiat has said it will leave the country if a majority of
workers reject its plans to make factories there more
competitive by cutting production costs.  Mario Draghi , head of
the  Bank of Italy , who will become  European Central Bank 
president on Nov. 1, has pushed for a structural overhaul in
Italy to end stagnation. Other Fiat unions favor the changes.  Business confidence in Italy fell to the lowest level in
almost two years in September. Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s government passed a 54 billion-euro package of
spending cuts and tax increases in August to convince the
European Central Bank to buy Italian bonds after the nation’s
borrowing costs surged to euro-era records.  No More Marches  Rome’s mayor reacted to the potential for further
disturbance by banning marches, forcing Fiom to change its
protest to a sit-in at Piazza del Popolo in the city center.
Fiat plays a symbolic role in the Italian economy because it’s
the largest industrial employer.  “If Fiat gives up on its challenge to grow in Italy and
moves abroad, it will become a metaphor for a country that
cannot be reformed, that has lost its hopes in the future,”
said Stefano Da Empoli, a Rome-based economist and chairman of
 Italy ’s I-Com institute for competitiveness.  Marchionne succeeded in winning three concession votes from
Fiat workers over the past 15 months, introducing new labor
rules, including measures to limit strikes, curtail absenteeism
and operate the factories on a six-day workweek. Those deals
were spurred by the promise of a 20 billion-euro investment
plan, called Fabrica Italia.  Model Delays  Fiat, which will shut a factory in Sicily at the end of the
year, has since postponed production of new models at its oldest
plant in Turin by at least six months to the second half of 2013
and delayed the introduction of new  Alfa Romeo .  “The Fabrica Italia plan doesn’t exist anymore,”Maurizio Landini, Fiom’s head, said at a press conference in Rome on Oct.
19. “There are no new models, market share is falling and
temporary layoffs are increasing. Fiat workers, not its
managers, want to keep the company in Italy.”  Yet workers don’t have much to do because of slumping sales
amid a lack of new models. Capacity utilization at Fiat’s
Italian plants was just  33 percent  in the first half of 2011,
compared with 73 percent at the carmaker’s other European
factories, according to a Sept. 20 company presentation.  The 22,000 factory workers in Italy assembled 650,000 cars
in 2009, while the 6,100 employees at its plant in Tychy,
 Poland ,  built  600,000 vehicles. Without taking into account
differences in models or working hours, the Italian workers made
30 cars a year on average, compared with almost 100 in Poland.  Labor Costs  In addition to lower productivity, Italian workers cost
27.69 euros an hour, more than three times the 7.52 euros in
Poland, according to data from German auto industry group VDA.  Fiat can’t take a “provincial approach” to production
decisions, Marchionne said, adding that the fall in the Italian
auto market since the 2008 peak is equivalent to losing demand
for the output of an entire auto factory.  “The central problem is that Fiat is very dependent on
Europe and not relevant in growth markets, with the exception of
 Brazil ,”  Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of Automotive
Management at the University of Applied Sciences in  Bergisch
Gladbach ,  Germany . “The next two to three years are going to be
very difficult for Fiat. They have to get the costs down and
Marchionne is well aware of that.”  The Italian union opposes the new labor rules aimed at
making work hours and conditions more flexible. The goal of the
changes is to end losses in Europe, estimated at 800 million
euros a year, by 2014.  ‘Time to Move Forward’  In contrast to the tension in Italy, Chrysler reached a
tentative agreement with its workers earlier this month. The
deal, if ratified, will pay staff a record $3,500 bonus in
return for hiring more people and investing $4.5 billion.  In Italy, workers like Gurzi are worried their jobs will
move elsewhere. Still, there may be a realization that something
has to give to prevent the crisis from deepening.  “Something is really going to change in Italy,” said
Michel Martone, professor of labor law at Luiss University in
Rome. “People are starting to understand that there is no more
time for ideological conflicts. It is time to move forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Milan at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  