-- 
Fitch Affirms Belgium’s Rating Pending Government Agreement

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-10-20T16:54:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/fitch-affirms-belgium-s-rating-pending-government-agreement-1-.html
Belgium  had its AA+ credit rating
affirmed by  Fitch Ratings , which maintained a negative outlook
pending a government agreement as an escalating sovereign debt
crisis could inflate the cost of rescuing Dexia SA.  “A more aggressive debt-reduction program will be needed,
despite the weaker near-term economic outlook” for Belgium to
maintain the second-highest rating, London-based Fitch Ratings
said in the statement. The country’s track record of debt
reduction “gives some confidence that necessary fiscal reforms
and adjustment will be forthcoming.”  While the nationalization of Dexia’s local banking unit for
4 billion euros ($5.5 billion) inflated Belgium’s debt load to
an estimated 98 percent of gross domestic product, the rating
company said the likelihood the country will face additional
costs after providing as much as 54.5 billion euros of funding
guarantees to Dexia is “low,” barring an escalation of
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis.  Fitch plans to review Belgium’s rating again after the
completion of coalition talks, which it expects in coming weeks
after an eight-party agreement about institutional aspects such
as the distribution of  tax revenue , regional fiscal autonomy and
a split of a disputed voting district encompassing the bilingual
capital paved the way for the formation of a government.  The yield on Belgium’s 10-year bonds dropped 4 basis points
to 4.41 percent today after surging 82 basis points in the
previous 12 days. The premium, or extra yield, investors demand
to hold those bonds rather than German government securities of
similar maturity widened 2 basis points to 241 basis points.  Under Review  Belgian  government bonds  have lost 4.3 percent this
quarter, the third-worst performance among 26 markets tracked by
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Investors sold the notes on
concern the rescue of Dexia may lead to a cut in Belgium’s
credit score. Moody’s Investors Service put the rating under
review for a possible downgrade on Oct. 7.  Belgium’s “advanced” economy, with high income per
capita, high domestic savings and low private-sector debt, as
well as its current account surplus support the AA+ rating and
put the country in the euro region’s core, Fitch said in today’s
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  