-- 
Florida ‘Dirt Bond’ Tax Districts May Be Part of Review Proposed by Scott

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-10-20T22:37:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/florida-s-taxing-districts-target-of-review-proposed-by-scott.html
(Corrects second paragraph description of amount of taxes
levied).  Governor  Rick Scott  plans to ask the
Legislature for authority to review  Florida ’s special taxing
districts, which collect $15.4 billion a year, as a way to lower
residents’ costs.  The entities tax homeowners within designated boundaries to
support such things as community hospitals, water-flow
management and infrastructure for housing developments. Taxes by
the 1,633 districts compare with $22.6 billion  raised by the
state  in fiscal 2011.  Among areas for review may be community development
districts, which issue bonds to finance roads and utility lines
to make raw land suitable for builders. At least $2.9 billion of
the $7 billion of so-called dirt bonds outstanding defaulted,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, because unfinished
projects lack enough homeowner taxes to repay them.  The first-term Republican governor wants “to see what
efficiencies or ways to save money we can identify so we can
reduce the tax burden” by rooting out “bad actors,” Jon
Costello, Scott’s legislative affairs director, told a House
committee in Tallahassee today.  A  June  auditor general’s report recommended that Florida
“establish parameters” for the amount of bonds development
districts can issue after finding that almost a third were
behind on payments and one in seven was paying from reserves.  The governor is studying which districts he will review and
whether development zones will be among them, said Costello.  “We’re going to look at all the special districts and
figure out which ones we want to concentrate on,” he said in an
interview yesterday.  New Law  Scott, 58, pushed for a law enacted last year that lowered
taxes levied by Florida’s five water-management districts by
about 30 percent. The former health-industry executive also
appointed a  task force  to examine hospital districts, which
account for about a quarter of the taxation, his office said.  The broader investigation would include a review of the
districts’ missions, the compensation of directors and how
boards are chosen, Costello said. Any changes won’t be radical,
he said.  “The governor’s not looking to take an ax to special
districts,” he said. “He’s looking to take a measured approach
and to really investigate it and see where things can be fixed
and where things are running properly.”  Larry Ahern, Republican chairman of the Joint Legislative
Auditing Committee, said in an interview yesterday that limiting
dirt-bond districts’ taxing power was something “to look at.”
He said he had no immediate plan to introduce legislation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Tallahassee at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  