-- 
Ford Says New UAW Contract Boosts Labor Costs Less Than 1%

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-10-20T20:03:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/ford-says-new-uaw-contract-will-boost-labor-costs-less-than-1-.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s new contract with
the  United Auto Workers  will increase its labor costs less than
1 percent annually while allowing the company to offset that in
efficiency gains, the company said.  Ford’s hourly labor costs, including wages and benefits
will rise to $59 from $58, Marty Mulloy, chief labor negotiator
of Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford, said in an interview. The
company will deploy workers more productively in team-based
systems, he said. Ford has estimated  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  pays $50
an hour in wages and benefits to its U.S. workers.  “The hourly wage itself isn’t the only important thing,”
 John Fleming , Ford’s executive vice president of manufacturing
and labor affairs, said in the same interview. “Being
competitive is really around the whole area of efficiency times
hourly wage. We see this as an opportunity for us to close on
the competition.”  Ford’s U.S. hourly workers voted 63 percent in favor of the
four-year contract, the UAW said yesterday. Ford has agreed to
create 12,000 jobs, invest $6.2 billion in factory upgrades and
give each of its 40,600 U.S. workers as much as $10,000 in bonus
and profit-sharing payments this year. The automaker won’t give
raises to senior workers or restore cost-of-living pay increases
workers gave up to help Ford survive.  The deal paves the way for Ford to begin paying an 8-cent
quarterly dividend in 2012’s first quarter, its first since
2006,  Brian Johnson , an analyst with  Barclays Capital , wrote in
a note today. Bloomberg analysts forecast a 5-cent dividend will
be paid in January.  ‘Patient’ Shareholders  “We think this will be favorably received” by credit
rating companies, Chief Financial Officer  Lewis Booth  said on a
conference call today with analysts and reporters. “There is
the opportunity going forward to think about a dividend not
directly related to investment grade.”  Ford previously said it would not restore the divided until
it achieved an investment-grade rating, Booth said. The
automaker has changed its view on that, he said.  “Our shareholders have been very patient,” Booth said.
“It would be nice to get to investment grade, but that’s not
entirely in our control.”  Moody’s Investors Service said Oct. 5 it would likely raise
Ford’s credit rating if the contract was ratified. Moody’s rates
Ford debt at Ba2, two steps below investment grade.  Standard &
Poor’s  said Sept. 29 it may raise Ford’s credit rating two
levels to BB+, the highest non-investment grade, depending on
the outcome of labor talks.  “The contract may have some pluses and minuses on the cost
side, but we think it generally is consistent with their ongoing
ability to stay profitable in  North America ,” Robert Schulz,
S&P’s auto analyst, said yesterday in an interview in
Birmingham, Michigan.  ‘We Create Magic’  The final vote in favor of the contract was a reversal of
early opposition to the deal, rejected by at least five
factories last week. UAW President  Bob King  has said
ratification would be hampered by Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally ’s “outrageous” 2010 compensation, which rose 48
percent to $26.5 million.  Ford also rewarded Mulally with more than $56 million in
stock for returning Ford to profitability after $30.1 billion in
losses from 2006 through 2008.  “I would characterize our labor relations as very good,”
 Mark Fields , Ford’s president of the Americas said today on “In
The Loop With Betty Liu” on Bloomberg Television. “We work
together to solve problems and when we do that, we create
magic.”  Ford rose 1.2 percent to $11.70 at the close in  New York .
The shares have slid 30 percent this year.  ‘Richer’ Contract  The automaker had to offer a “richer” contract than
 General Motors Co. (GM)  to win approval from workers, Ford’s Fleming
said. The company is paying a higher signing bonus, greater
“inflation protection” annual bonuses and offering more
generous buyouts than GM. Ford said lump-sum payments to workers
will cost $280 million this year.  “Truthfully, we did it to be able to get to an
agreement,” Fleming said. “You saw that the vote was 63
percent, so it wasn’t a unanimous vote by any means. So it was
probably pitched about right.”  The 12,957 workers who voted against the deal were likely
looking for a raise and restoration of annual cost-of-living
increases to their wages, he said.  “There were people who were overall unhappy,” Fleming
said. “People had an expectation of what they believe they
should get back that they believe they gave up previously.
Clearly, through this, not all those aspirations were met and
that’s probably the majority of the concern and why some people
voted no.”  Higher Labor Costs  The new contract will add about 70 cents an hour to Ford’s
$58 hourly labor costs, including wages and benefits, Johnson of
Barclays estimated. That will boost the automaker’s annual labor
costs by $70 million and reduce earnings by about 2 cents per
share, he said.  GM’s new UAW contract will raise labor costs 1 percent a
year, the smallest increase in four decades, the automaker said
Sept. 28.  “Ford still has the highest per-hour cost, as Chrysler
started lower and GM likely benefits from greater skilled trades
attrition and legal services benefit cuts,” Johnson wrote in an
Oct. 17 research note.  New Hires  Ford’s labor costs will come down as the company hires as
many as 3,280 workers during the next four years, said Mulloy,
the company negotiator. New workers start at an entry-level wage
of $15.78 an hour, rather than the roughly $28 an hour senior
employees make. The entry-level wage will rise to $19.28 by 2015
under the contract.  On Oct. 24, Ford will hire about 1,300 entry-level workers
who have already been in its factories as temporary employees,
Fleming said. Those temporary workers already receive the lower
wage, he said. That will give Ford a total of 1,450 workers paid
at the lower rate, Fleming said.  “Over the next couple years, I think we will see the
majority” of the new hires made, Fleming said.  Ford also may lower labor costs if higher-paid workers
accept buyouts, Fleming said. Ford is offering $50,000 buyouts
to production workers and $100,000 buyouts to skilled-trade
employees, who are the highest paid hourly employees. Ford hopes
900 to 1,000 of its skilled-trade workers accept the buyout,
Fleming said.  “This isn’t like 2006, where we were in a pretty desperate
situation and we had way too many people than was required to
operate our plants,” Mulloy said. “If the people want to go,
God bless them, ‘Here’s the money and have a good life.’ If they
want to stay, they can stay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  