-- 
Forint Weakens to 2009 Low on European Crisis, Rating Concern

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-10-20T15:49:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/forint-weakens-to-2009-low-on-european-crisis-rating-concern.html
The forint slid to its weakest
level in 2 1/2 years versus the euro as a split emerged among
European leaders on how to stem the region’s debt crisis, and
speculation rose that Hungarian debt may be downgraded to
non-investment grade.  The Hungarian currency depreciated as much as 1.7 percent
to 301.03 per euro, its weakest intraday level since April
2009, and traded 1.5 percent weaker by 5:37 p.m. in Budapest.
Poland’s zloty slumped 1.5 percent to 4.4050 per euro and the
Czech koruna retreated 0.8 percent to 25.065 against the common
currency.  “Markets in the European time zone are getting more and
more worried about the outcome of this weekend’s summit,” BNP
Parbias SA strategists wrote in a report today. “We believe
that central and eastern European currencies will be unable to
develop any significant appreciation.”  Stocks and commodities fell after Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs the group of euro-area finance
ministers, indicated an impromptu meeting in  Frankfurt  yesterday
failed to resolve differences ahead of this weekend’s summit.  “Yesterday’s ‘emergency meeting’ in Frankfurt does not
appear to have yielded significant results, which means that the
growth outlook for the central and eastern  Europe , Middle East
and Africa region is getting worse by the day,” strategists led
by Bartosz Pawlowski in  London  wrote in the BNP note.  Credit Ratings  Hungarian bonds fell for a fourth day and the government
sold less than the planned amount of debt at an auction today
after Danske Bank A/S cut the debt to “underweight” from
“overweight,” citing an economic slowdown and risks the
European Union’s most-indebted eastern member will have its
rating downgraded. The country is rated one step above junk at
Moody’s Investors Service,  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s .  The bond rout lifted the yield on the benchmark 2022 notes
in forint up 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 8.015
percent, compared with 7.69 percent at the end of last week.  “We have now moved significantly negative in respect of
 Hungary ,” Lars Christensen and Antero Atilla, Copenhagen-based
analysts at Danske Bank, wrote in a report to clients yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  