-- 
France Likely to Lose Top Rating in Stressed Economic Scenario, S&P Says

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-10-21T09:03:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/france-likely-to-lose-top-rating-in-stressed-economic-scenario-s-p-says.html
France is among euro-region
sovereigns likely to be downgraded in a stressed economic
scenario, according to  Standard & Poor’s .  The sovereign ratings of  Spain ,  Italy , Ireland and Portugal
would also be reduced by another one or two levels in either of
New York-based S&P’s two stress scenarios, the ratings firm said
in a report dated today. These assume low economic growth and a
 double-dip  recession in the first set of circumstances, and add
an interest-rate shock to the recession in the second.  “Ballooning budget deficits and bank recapitalization
costs would likely send government borrowings significantly
higher under both scenarios,” S&P analysts led by Chief Credit
Officer Blaise Ganguin in Paris wrote in the report. “Credit
metrics would deteriorate sharply as a result.”  S&P is seeking to take account of the economic slowdown
that hit Europe in the second quarter and which has led the
ratings company to trim 2012 growth forecasts to an average of
between 1 percent and 1.5 percent.  France  would follow the so-
called peripheral euro-region nations that have already been
downgraded, with Moody’s Investors Service saying earlier this
week that its top rating was under threat.  Double Dip  A double-dip recession would result from falling industrial
investment and declining consumer confidence in the first
scenario, according to S&P. Under these circumstances, the Tier
1 ratios of 20 banks in S&P’s 47-strong sample may fall below 6
percent, forcing governments put in about 80 billion euros ($109
billion) of new capital to return them to at least 7 percent,
according to S&P. A lender’s Tier 1 ratio is a gauge of its
financial strength.  The yield premium investors demand to hold French
government 10-year bonds rather than similar-maturity German
debt has soared this month as concern mounts that contagion from
the sovereign debt crisis has leeched into core  Europe . The
spread is at 119 basis points, from 71.5 basis points at the end
of September. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  BNP Paribas SA was the biggest foreign bank holder of Greek
bonds at the end of the second quarter, with about 3.8 billion
euros of the securities, Bloomberg data show. Societe Generale
SA, which had 1.9 billion euros of the debt, was the fifth-
largest foreign holder.  Recapitalizing Banks  The bill to recapitalize the banking system across the euro
region would amount to about 115 billion euros in the less-
stressed scenario and about 130 billion euros in the more-
stressed situation, S&P found.  The analysts assume that the  European Central Bank  and
governments would support the banks because failure to do so
“could yield even more dire consequences,” according to the
report.  Speculative-grade corporate defaults would probably rise to
between 9 percent and 13 percent under the scenarios, S&P said.  Spain, which was AAA between December 2004 and January
2009, was reduced one step to AA- by S&P on Oct. 13. Moody’s
stripped it of its Aa2 rating on Oct. 18 and now grades the
nation two steps lower at A1.  S&P cut Italy a step to A on Sept. 19, while Moody’s
slashed its rating three levels to A2 on Oct. 4. Ireland, which
received an international bailout last year, is graded BBB+ by
S&P, while  Portugal , which also received a bailout, has a BBB-
rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  