-- 
Frasers Property Bets on Australian Housing With $3.6 Billion in Projects

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-10-20T04:54:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/frasers-bets-on-australian-housing-with-3-6-billion-in-projects.html
Frasers Property  Australia , a unit
of Fraser & Neave Ltd., said it has A$3.5 billion ($3.6 billion)
in developments under way, betting on a revival in a housing
market that has fallen 3.2 percent in the past year.  The group, building a A$2 billion  development  in Sydney’s
center that will create about 2,000 apartments by 2015, is
counting on economic growth driven by Chinese resources demand
and a shift in preference for apartment living to drive sales,
said Chief Executive Officer Guy Pahor.  “There are short-term issues we need to deal with in the
housing market, but these have more to do with consumer
sentiment than underlying fundamentals,” Sydney-based Pahor
said in an interview. “Over the medium to long term, the
affordability factor is going to be key in more people choosing
apartment living over owning a house on a quarter-acre lot of
land, as will people prioritizing lifestyle and proximity to
social amenities and employment over a larger backyard in outer
suburban estates.”  Having a detached house was fifth on a list of factors that
influence housing choice, and most single and older people are
likely to find the location of their home more important than
other aspects, according to a survey of 706 people across Sydney
and  Melbourne ’s metropolitan areas conducted by the Grattan
Institute.  Apartment prices fell 0.9 percent in the year to Aug. 31,
faring better than  house prices , which declined 3.6 percent,
according to real estate researcher RP Data. The central bank
raised  interest rates  seven times from October 2009 to November
2010.  Sydney Focus  An ageing population, shrinking household sizes, lifestyle
choices and government policies are moving Australians more
toward inner-city living, Infrastructure Australia said in its
State of Australian Cities 2011 report released today.  Sydney, where Frasers is building 80 percent of its
projects, has outperformed the rest of the country, with  home
prices  rising 0.3 percent, while all other cities had declines,
according to RP Data. Almost a quarter of Sydney residents lived
in apartments, compared with 7.1 percent in Perth and 8.4
percent in Adelaide, the Infrastructure Australia report said.  “It’s obviously on people’s minds that global economic
situations can impact the growth in Australia,” Pahor said.
“But we have a shortage of housing in Australia, and that
shortage is most acute in Sydney.”  Central Park  Frasers is building Central Park, a project that’s expected
to create 255,000 square meters (2.7 million square feet) of
floor space at the former Kent Brewery site in the inner suburb
of Chippendale. The development, in partnership with Sekisui
House Ltd.,  Japan ’s second-largest home builder, includes 16,000
square meters of retail space, 70,000 square meters of  office
space , student housing and possibly a hotel in addition to its
residential component, Pahor said.  Frasers has sold about 80 percent of the units in the first
of its 11 buildings a year after starting sales, he said.  The companies signed a four-part loan worth A$550 million
expiring in September 2014 from Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. last month to
fund the project.  Frasers will hold off acquiring new development sites,
focusing instead on its existing pipeline, and selling buildings
as they are completed to finance subsequent stages and projects,
Pahor said.  Frasers is a division of Frasers Centrepoint, which was
acquired by Fraser & Neave,  Singapore ’s third-biggest developer
by assets, 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  