-- 
Freescale Third-Quarter Loss Narrows as Sales Little Changed

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-10-20T21:48:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/freescale-says-third-quarter-loss-narrowed-as-sales-were-little-changed.html
Freescale Semiconductor Holdings,
the chipmaker mostly owned by a private-equity group including
Blackstone Group LP and TPG Capital, said its third-quarter loss
narrowed as the company received an insurance settlement.  The loss was $88 million, or 36 cents a share, compared
with a loss of $156 million, or 79 cents, a year earlier, the
Austin, Texas-based company said in a statement. Sales slipped
less than 1 percent to $1.14 billion. Analysts on average
estimated the company would report a loss of 17 cents on sales
of $1.13 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company last month said slowing demand in its
industrial and networking businesses would result in lower sales
than it had originally projected. That cut mirrored reduced
forecasts from rival analog chipmakers such as  Texas Instruments
Inc. (TXN)  and  Intersil Corp. (ISIL)   “Looking ahead to the fourth quarter, we expect the
weakness in the semiconductor market to continue to negatively
impact our business,” Chief Executive Officer Rich Beyer said
in the statement.  Fourth-quarter sales will be $1 billion to $1.06 billion,
Beyer said on a conference call to discuss earnings. That
compares with an average analyst estimate of $1.13 billion.  Analog chips are included in everything from space hardware
to household electronics, making their sales an indicator of
demand across the economy.  Insurance Settlement  In the third quarter, Freescale received part of a
settlement for an insurance claim related to its plant in
Sendai,  Japan , which was damaged by the earthquake in March. The
third-quarter loss also included a $55 million charge related to
debt reorganization, the company said.  Freescale shares rose 2.5 percent to $12.15 at the close in
 New York . The stock has fallen 33 percent since it began trading
after its initial public offering.  The company sold 43.5 million shares at $18 each in its IPO
on May 25, raising 25 percent less than it originally sought.
The IPO price reflected a 50 percent discount to the average of
$36 that investors paid for the company, according to a
regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  