-- 
Free-Trade Pact U.S. Job Gains May Be Underestimated, Kirk Says

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-20T17:09:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/free-trade-pact-u-s-job-gains-may-be-underestimated-kirk-says.html
Free-trade agreements with South
 Korea , Colombia and Panama may create or support more than the
70,000 jobs estimated by economists because service industries
will add workers, U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk said.  Kirk said the forecast by the independent U.S.
International Trade Commission focuses on manufactured goods and
may not fully account for a jump in business for service
companies, and “we very much excel in services.”  “We think it is a bit conservative,” Kirk said today in
an interview with Bloomberg Television on the floor of the New
York Stock Exchange. “In the case of Korea, the United Auto
Workers would not have endorsed this agreement if they thought
it would cost us jobs.”  The deals, reached by George W. Bush more than four years
ago and revised by President  Barack Obama , cleared Congress last
week. Obama negotiated new terms for auto tariffs from  South
Korea  that won over the auto workers, a tax-information exchange
with Panama and labor-rights assurances from Colombia. He plans
to sign the legislation for the deals in the Oval Office
tomorrow, his administration said on Oct. 18.  Groups including the AFL-CIO, the nation’s largest labor
federation and a frequent Democratic ally, opposed the
agreements. AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka had urged lawmakers
to reject them, saying in an Oct. 4 speech in Washington that
the accords will destroy 159,000 jobs by encouraging companies
to send work overseas.  ‘Component Parts’  “You cannot associate all imports with job loss,” Kirk
said today. “Much of what we import are component parts that go
into goods that we make and sell elsewhere.’  The South Korea deal is the biggest for the U.S. since the
North American Free Trade Agreement in 1994. It will boost
American exports as much as $10.9 billion in the first year that
it’s in full effect, according to the trade commission. The
accord with Colombia will increase exports as much as $1.1
billion a year.  Companies such as  Ace Ltd. (ACE) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Pfizer Inc.
led the effort to pass the South Korea deal, while  Caterpillar
Inc. (CAT)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  were among the biggest backers of
the accord with Colombia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  