-- 
French Air Power Begins, Ends NATO Campaign Over Libya With Sarkozy’s Help

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-10-20T23:46:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/french-air-power-begins-ends-nato-air-campaign-over-libya.html
The NATO air campaign to oust
 Muammar Qaddafi  began with French Mirage jets destroying a
column of his tanks on the outskirts of Benghazi seven months
ago.  Yesterday, it was a French Mirage jet that fired to block
Qaddafi’s escape from Sirte in a four-wheel drive vehicle.
Libyan fighters then moved in and killed the man who had ruled
their country for 42 years.  The French involvement in the war’s denouement was symbolic
of the leading role President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has played since
Libyan rebels first sought outside help for their revolution.  While U.S. military involvement was “quite considerable,”
said Andrew Pierre, a former senior fellow at the U.S. Institute
of Peace in Washington, “the intervention in  Libya  will be
perceived by the French public as French-led. That will be a
strong card for a man who’s facing a very tough” re-election
bid next year.  Sarkozy was the first Western leader to recognize the
National Transitional Council as the representatives of the
Libyan people, and French planes carried out the largest number
of ground attacks. Sarkozy and British Prime Minister  David Cameron  took the lead in a public campaign to impose a no-fly
zone over Libya which led to NATO effectively providing air
cover to otherwise out-gunned Libyan rebels.  “The end of Qaddafi was the work of Libyans in Libya,”
French Defense Minister Gerard Longuet said at a press
conference yesterday in Paris. “But French aviation was present
from the start.”  Qaddafi Convoy  Longuet said coalition planes yesterday noticed “a convoy
of several dozen four-by-four vehicles trying to force their way
out of Sirte.” A  Dassault Aviation SA (AM)  Mirage 2000 jet fired its
cannon ahead of the convoy “to block it, not to destroy it,”
Longuet said. NTC forces then closed in on the blocked convoy
and Qaddafi was killed in the fighting, Longuet said.  NATO now “will terminate our mission in coordination with
the  United Nations  and the National Transitional Council,” NATO
Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said in a  statement .  On March 10, after a meeting at Sarkozy’s Elysee
presidential palace with leaders of the TNC, organized by French
philosopher Bernard-Henri Levy, France became the first Western
government to recognize the council as the representatives of
the Libyan people. On March 19, hours after the UN voted to
impose an air-exclusion zone over Libya, French planes flew from
mainland  France  with aerial refueling to destroy a tank column
at the gates of Benghazi, the hometown of the NTC.  France First  Sarkozy has repeatedly said that the attack, carried out
before U.S. cruise missiles knocked out Libya’s air defenses,
prevented a bloodbath in Benghazi.  In June, the French again went ahead of their NATO allies
in air-dropping weapons to rebels in the Western mountains of
Libya. Those rebels then went on the offensive, opening up a
third front in the war after those of Benghazi and Misrata.  At a briefing in early September, French officials claimed
their planes carried out 25 percent of all ground attacks, the
most of any country, and 85 percent of helicopter attacks.
French planes were based in Corsica, Crete, and on the Charles de Gaulle aircraft carrier and Mistral helicopter carrier.  The Libya campaign cost the French state 350 million euros
($480 million) beyond what was already budgeted for overseas
military operations, the defense ministry said in presentation
of its 2012 budget in late September.  Sarkozy presents a vision of France as “a great power that
can take action and be effective because of his leadership,”
said Pierre, a former director-general of the Atlantic Institute
for International Affairs in Paris.  Military Engagements  Sarkozy, who was elected in 2007 and faces re-election next
year, boosted France’s military engagements in  Afghanistan  in
2008 and returned France to NATO’s unified military command in
2009. At one point this year, French military forces were
engaged on four fronts: Libya, Afghanistan, enforcing a UN
demand that Ivory Coast strongman Laurent Gbagbo step down, and
in a European anti-piracy fleet off the coast of Somalia.  For Sarkozy, success in Libya won’t necessarily help his
re-election next year.  “Libya is popular on the whole with the French because it
plays to their sense of France standing up for human rights,”
said  Laurent Dubois , a professor at the Paris Political Studies
Institute. “But that’s not what’s going to decide the election.
It’s not as important as the economy.”  Francois Hollande , who won the Socialist Party’s nomination
last weekend, would defeat Sarkozy 62 percent to 38 percent if
elections were held now, a poll released Oct. 19 said. Hollande
has supported the military operations in Libya.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net 
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  