-- 
FSA’s Turner Warns Over ‘Harmful’ EU Bank Capital Measures

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-10-20T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/fsa-s-turner-warns-over-harmful-eu-bank-capital-measures.html
Adair Turner , chairman of Britain’s
Financial Services Authority, said European Union attempts to
stop the U.K. from setting banks’ capital requirements higher
than other countries are “potentially harmful.”  European Union rules on bank capital, yet to be agreed on
by finance ministers of the bloc’s 27 member states, must
include “adequate flexibility” for variation among countries
and should give national supervisors the freedom to “exceed and
vary” above the levels set globally, according to a copy
provided by the FSA of his London speech yesterday.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, has sought
to remove the right of national regulators to increase bank
reserves beyond minimum levels set by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision . Seven finance ministers, including U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and  Spain ’s  Elena Salgado , wrote a letter to the European Commission in May saying
plans to impose capital caps could cause “instability.”  “The idea that securing the single market requires the
harmonization of maximum, as well as minimum standards, is
simply wrong and potentially harmful,” Turner said.  The Basel Committee, a group comprised of global regulators
and central banks, has decided on global measures including a
2.5 percent capital surcharge on large banks and tougher
liquidity rules.  The agency that is to replace the FSA by 2013, the
 Prudential Regulatory Authority , will seek to end the culture of
too-big-to-fail banks, Turner said. That means “subordinated
debt holders and perhaps senior debt holders, and even perhaps
uninsured depositors will suffer losses,” in a financial
crisis, he said.  Too Big To Fail  “There is no point in saying that we are abolishing too-
big-to-fail status unless we mean it,” Turner said.  The European Commission had planned to propose measures in
September to force senior bondholders of failing banks to take
losses. They were delayed because the rules may spook investors
at a time of market turbulence and they need more work, two
people familiar with the situation said.  The PRA is part of plans for the biggest regulatory
overhaul since 1997, in which the FSA will be abolished and most
of its powers returned to the  Bank of England .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  