-- 
LG Display Posts Wider-Than-Expected 3rd-Quarter Loss on Panel Prices, Won

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-10-20T10:08:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/lg-display-posts-wider-than-expected-3rd-quarter-loss-on-panel-prices-won.html
LG Display Co., the world’s second-
largest maker of liquid-crystal displays, reported a record
quarterly loss after panels prices dropped and the won weakened.  The net loss in the three months ended in September totaled
687.5 billion won ($600 million) compared with a 141.6 billion
won average of 22 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
company had net income of 224.2 billion won a year earlier.  LG Display and its competitors, including bigger rival
Samsung Electronics Co., are struggling to boost sales as TV
makers hold back panel purchases with consumers not upgrading to
new models. A depreciating won boosted overseas debt payments,
causing a 150 billion won foreign exchange loss in the quarter,
Chief Financial Officer James Jeong said today.  “The losses are set to continue for a while,” said Im
Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas
Asset Management Co., which oversees about $29 billion. “There
isn’t much to expect for a demand recovery for now.”  LG Display shares fell 0.2 percent to 22,500 won at the
close of trading in Seoul today. The shares have fallen 43
percent this year.  Third-quarter operating loss was 492.1 billion won on sales
of 6.3 trillion won, according to the statement.  Panel Prices  The average price of LG’s panels fell 10 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, according to the company.  “Demand from our customers isn’t recovering because of
uncertainty about the global economy,” Jeong said at a briefing
in Seoul today. “The fall in panel prices was bigger than
expected.”  Global shipments of LCD TVs will rise to 206 million units
this year, falling short of an earlier projection of 211 million
units, research company DisplaySearch said on Oct. 11.  The company has no plan to make new investments in raising
LCD display capacity.  The panel industry will probably turn around after the
second quarter of next year, Jeong said. New TVs that may go on
sale ahead of the London  Olympic Games  will also help boost
sales next year, Chief Executive Officer Kwon Young Soo told
reporters Oct. 12, according to Yonhap News.  CFO Jeong reiterated today that the company’s 3-D
technology and mobile displays, which are used in Apple Inc.’s
iPhone, will help revive sales.  LG is promoting a 3-D technology called Film Patterned
Retarder, or FPR, which uses polarized glasses to view 3-D
images with visual information sent to both eyes simultaneously.  “You have to do higher-margin products that others can’t
do so you can ride out the waves in the industry,” Kwon Sung
Ryul, a Seoul-based analyst at Dongbu Securities Co. said by
telephone before today’s announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  