-- 
German Stocks Fall Amid France-German Split on Crisis Solution

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-10-20T16:09:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/german-stocks-fall-amid-france-german-split-on-crisis-solution.html
German stocks retreated, snapping a
two-day rally, as France and Germany split over Europe’s rescue
plan before a finance ministers’ meeting in Brussels tomorrow.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s biggest steelmaker, fell with
metal prices. EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE)  lost more than 5 percent as
Kepler Equities downgraded Germany’s largest utilities.  Metro AG (MEO) 
limited losses after reiterating it will exceed 2010 earnings
this year.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  dropped 2.5 percent to 5,766.48 at
the close in Frankfurt. The measure has still rallied 14 percent
from this year’s low on Sept. 12 amid speculation policy makers
will find a solution to Europe’s debt crisis. The broader HDAX
Index also retreated 2.5 percent today.  “The impasse in German-French talks seems to have doused
the optimism prevailing in the markets so far,” said Anita Paluch, a senior sales trader at Gekko Global Markets Ltd. in
 London . “Unrealistic expectations regarding a wonder solution
to the debt problems, which is a complicated issue, are what has
led to increased volatility as investors over-responded to every
political piece of news.”  Euro-area leaders will meet on Oct. 23 in Brussels, with
disagreement over the European Central Bank’s role threatening
to hinder progress on a comprehensive strategy to end the debt
crisis. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  this week sought to
lower expectations, even as Group of 20 finance chiefs set the
meeting as the deadline for action.  Persisting Differences  French President Nicolas Sarkozy flew to Frankfurt for a
meeting last night with Merkel, ECB President Jean-Claude
Trichet and International Monetary Fund Managing Director
Christine Lagarde. Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs the group of euro-area finance ministers,
indicated the gathering failed to resolve differences.  ThyssenKrupp lost 4.6 percent to 19.28 euros as aluminum,
copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc all dropped on the London
Metal Exchange. Competitor  Salzgitter AG (SZG)  slipped 1.2 percent to
37.44 euros.  EON tumbled 5.8 percent to 16.40 euros after Kepler cut its
recommendation on the stock to “reduce” from “buy.” The
brokerage also downgraded RWE to “reduce” from “buy,”
sending the shares 5.2 percent lower to 28.75 euros.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  dropped 5.5 percent to 26.03 euros,
erasing yesterday’s advance. Germany’s biggest bank lost a bid
to reclassify $2.4 billion in claims on Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. as a judge denied a request to force the defunct firm to
upgrade their value.  Commerzbank AG fell 2.9 percent to 1.59 euros as banking
shares posted the worst performance among 19 industry groups in
the benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index today.  Metro, Germany’s biggest retailer, added 1 percent to 32.40
euros for the best performance in the DAX. Chief Executive
Officer Eckhard Cordes reiterated that the company’s earnings
before interest and taxes this year will exceed last year’s 2.4
billion euros ($3.3 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  