-- 
German Pay-TV Market Share May Jump by One-Third, Adviser Says

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-10-20T16:01:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/german-pay-tv-market-share-may-jump-by-one-third-adviser-says.html
Germany ’s pay-television providers
will expand their share of the country’s TV market by one-third
in the next two years as they offer more attractive programming
and technology, an industry consultant said.  High-definition or three-dimensional images, exclusive
content such as live sports and easier-to-use devices will help
cable and online TV operators account for 20 percent of
Germany’s TV market in 2013 compared with 15 percent in 2011,
Henning Roeper, head of Solon Management Consulting, said at the
Medientage conference in Munich today.  Companies driving the expansion include  Sky Deutschland AG (SKYD) ,
controlled by  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA) ; phone company
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  with its Entertain unit; cable companies
such as Kabel Deutschland AG; and broadband outlets such as
Amazon Inc.’s Lovefilm and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes, Roeper said.  “Sky has shown strong growth and cable companies are also
increasingly making pay-television products,” Roeper said.  Average annual revenue per user in Germany is 15.50 euros
($21), less than the 50.60-euro average in the U.S., where pay
TV’s market penetration is at 88 percent, or 35.30 euros in the
U.K. where penetration is 54 percent, according to Solon data.  Sky Deutschland Chief Executive Officer Brian Sullivan, who
has reversed customer losses since he took over in April 2010,
said at the conference that pay-TV growth will be related to
content and service offerings that attract households, rather
than viewers becoming more willing to pay for TV.  The company, based in the Munich suburb of Unterfoehring,
has been adding high-definition channels to its lineup and will
go on the air with Germany and  Austria ’s first live sports-news
channel on Dec. 1 as it seeks to add customers.  Deutsche Telekom,  Europe ’s biggest phone operator, is
selling its Entertain television service to existing customers
to drive growth and will make it available next year on mobile
devices such as smartphones and tablet computers, said Christian
Illek, the Bonn-based company’s head of marketing in Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Munich via 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  