-- 
German Business Confidence Probably Fell to 17-Month Low as Crisis Spreads

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-10-20T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/german-business-confidence-may-fall-to-lowest-since-may-2010.html
German business confidence probably
fell in October to the lowest since the first Greek bailout in
May last year as the euro region’s worsening debt crisis
threatens to push the economy into recession.  The Ifo institute’s business climate index, based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, will drop to 106.2 from 107.5 in
September, according to the median forecast of 42 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey. The Munich-based institute releases the
report at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  European leaders, due to meet in Brussels on Oct. 23, are
under pressure to find a solution to the turmoil that has pushed
 Greece  to the brink of default and is now threatening banks
across the 17-nation euro area. German investor confidence
slumped to a three-year low this month and the benchmark DAX
share index has dropped 19 percent over the past three months,
reflecting concern that company earnings may suffer.  “It is vital that a solution is found as soon as possible
to avoid a credit crunch that will really hurt German
companies,” said  Christian Schulz , an economist at Joh
Berenberg Gossler & Co. in  London . “Overall, the economy is
still in good shape and we won’t have a very deep recession, but
what started as a mere confidence crisis is spreading.”  Ifo’s gauge of the current situation may decrease to 116.5
from 117.9, while an index measuring executives’ expectations
probably fell to 97 from 98, the survey of economists shows.  Growth Outlook  While  Germany ’s Bundesbank on Oct. 17 predicted “strong”
growth in the third quarter due to a rebound in industrial
production and private consumption, it said the outlook has
deteriorated.  Germany’s top economic institutes on Oct. 13 cut their 2012
forecast for growth by more than half, though they and said
 Europe ’s largest economy will probably avert a recession. Growth
will slow to 0.8 percent next year from 2.9 percent in 2011,
they said in a bi-annual report commissioned by the government.
In April, the group forecast 2 percent growth for 2012.  Vossloh AG (VOS) , a German manufacturer of railroad equipment,
cut its full-year sales forecast on Sept. 29, citing slower
business in  China  and a “sharp reduction” in orders from
southern Europe. Deutsche Bank AG on Oct. 4 scrapped its profit
forecast and announced 500 job cuts and further writedowns on
Greek bond holdings.  French-German Split  “Since the debt crisis has now become a bank crisis, the
chances of recession are much higher,” Tobias Blattner, an
economist at Daiwa International in London, told Ken Prewitt on
Bloomberg Radio’s “The First Word.” “We’re expecting a
technical recession at the beginning of next year.”  Some 17 months after Greece was first bailed out by euro-
area nations, governments are still struggling to find a lasting
solution to a crisis that has since engulfed Ireland and
 Portugal  and is now threatening Italy and  Spain .  A French-German split over the  European Central Bank ’s role
in a rescue plan threatens to stymie progress on delivering the
comprehensive strategy demanded by global leaders.  France  favors
creating a bank out of the region’s rescue fund, allowing it to
boost its financial clout by borrowing from the ECB -- a
proposal that Germany rejects.  The crisis has made banks wary of lending to each other.
Banks parked 182 billion euros ($251 billion) with the
Frankfurt-based ECB overnight on Oct. 19, up from 172 billion
euros the previous day.  Rising employment may help shield the German economy from
turmoil and bolster consumer demand. German unemployment
declined more than economists forecast in September, pushing the
jobless rate to 6.9 percent, the lowest since the country’s
reunification two decades ago.  ‘Gordian Knot’  Thomas Lindner, head of Germany’s VDMA machine makers’
association, said on Oct. 18 that the industry is struggling to
find enough skilled workers and forecast plant and machinery
output to increase 4 percent next year.  SAP AG (SAP) , the world’s
largest maker of business-management software, on Oct. 14
reported third-quarter earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  Jens Sondergaard, an economist at Nomura International Plc.
in London, said it’s now up to leaders to help bolster business
confidence at their weekend meeting.  The crisis “is really weighing on sentiment,” he said.
“If you are pessimistic you’d say it’s already too late. The
question is whether they can cut the Gordian Knot in the next 72
hours.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  