-- 
Gibson Guitar Raid by U.S. Fires Up Tea Party, Charlie Daniels

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-10-20T19:35:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/gibson-guitar-raid-by-u-s-fires-up-tea-party-charlie-daniels.html
A raid on Gibson Guitar Corp. by
U.S. agents seeking illegally imported wood has given anti-
regulation activists from the  Tea Party  to fiddler Charlie Daniels one more reason to dislike the Obama administration.  “Thirty agents with guns” showed up unannounced at
Gibson’s Nashville, Tennessee, factory on the morning of Aug.
24, Chief Executive Officer Henry Juszkiewicz, 58, said in an
interview. “They wouldn’t let me come in my office. I had to
come in the conference room and conduct business as best as I
could while they did whatever.”  Wearing bulletproof vests, agents from the Justice and
Homeland Security Departments sent workers home and seized
almost 100 guitars and boxes of raw materials, Juszkiewicz said.
The raid has incensed Tea Party groups and Republican lawmakers
such as House Speaker  John Boehner , who say it’s yet another
example of an overreaching big government.  “The company’s costs as a result of the raid?” Boehner
said in a  Washington  speech on Sept. 15. “An estimated $2-to-3
million. Why? Because Gibson bought wood overseas to make
guitars in America. Seriously.”  The agents were investigating possible violations of the
Lacey Act, enacted in 1900 to curb illicit trafficking in fish
and wildlife. It was expanded in 2008 to make it a crime to
import plants and plant products taken illegally.  Rosewood Fingerboards  “The Lacey Act prohibits companies from undercutting law-
abiding U.S. wood products companies, including numerous small
businesses, by trading in artificially inexpensive raw materials
that have been illegally harvested from foreign forests,”
Assistant Attorney General Ronald Weich and Christopher Mansour,
the  Justice Department ’s legislative affairs chief, said in a
Sept. 19 letter to Republican lawmakers. Agents carry arms as
standard practice, according to the letter.  The raiders seized 6,000 fingerboards made of rosewood from
 India , the company says. The wood for the thin strip that runs
along the guitar’s neck was exported unfinished, a violation of
Indian law that made it subject to the Lacey Act, according to
an affidavit from U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service agent John
Rayfield that led to a warrant for the raid.  Gibson is “innocent and will protect its rights.”
Juszkiewicz said  in a statement  after the raid.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a Justice Department spokesman, declined to
comment, citing the continuing investigation. Representatives
from the India embassy in Washington didn’t return a call
seeking comment.  ‘Fat, Sweet, Snarling’  Closely held Gibson, founded in 1894, says it produces more
than 160,000 guitars annually in Nashville and has almost $500
million in revenue. It’s the country’s second-largest guitar
maker after Scottsdale, Arizona-based Fender Musical Instruments
Corp., according to The Music Trades, a publication that covers
the industry.  Juszkiewicz, a Harvard MBA who says he worked his way
through the General Motors Institute in Flint,  Michigan , by
playing a Gibson guitar in various bands, acquired the company
with business partners in 1986.  The guitar maker boasts  on its website  of the “fat, sweet,
snarling” sound of its Les Paul traditional model. It also has
developed guitars with musicians B.B. King and Chet Atkins.  Daniels, 74, who plays a Gibson guitar as well as his
trademark fiddle, calls the raid a form of harassment that may
hurt the company and its workers. Gibson has about 1,200 U.S.
employees, including more than 500 at the Nashville factory that
was raided.  ‘Bum-Rushed’  “These people are about to destroy some jobs in
Tennessee,” Daniels, whose hits include “The Devil Went Down
to  Georgia ,” said in an interview. “The federal government is
spending too much time for stupid things like raiding a little
guitar company.”  The agents who appeared at Gibson’s factory “bum-rushed
the building,” floor manager Johnny Alexander, a 23-year Gibson
employee, said in an interview. Employees were herded out so
quickly that many left belongings such as purses behind, he
said.  “They treated us like we were going to run back into the
building and destroy guitars,” Alexander, 48, said.  Gibson is familiar with the little-known Lacey Act, having
been raided two and a half years ago as well, with the same
factory as the target, according to Juszkiewicz. The company was
never charged in that dispute, over wood from Madagascar, he
said.  Nashville Rally  U.S. Representatives Jim Cooper, a Democrat, and Republican
Marsha Blackburn, both from  Tennessee , and Republican Mary Bono
Mack of  California  today introduced legislation that would
protect guitar makers and musicians if they unknowingly possess
wood that violates the Lacey Act.  Wood owned before the 2008
Lacey Act amendment would also be exempt.  “In theory, anybody who travels outside the country or
even across the state line with an old guitar right now would be
in legal jeopardy,” Cooper said in a statement. The measure is
supported by musicians Vince Gill, Rosanne Cash and Nanci
Griffith, Cooper said.  About 1,000 people rallied in Nashville on Oct. 8 to
protest the August raid. The gathering in a parking lot across
from Opryland, the country music mecca, featured live
entertainment, booths for Tea Party-affiliated groups and
denunciations of federal bureaucrats.  ‘Show of Power’  “It was strictly a show of power of the federal
government,” Sid Gilchrist, 70, a Nashville retiree wearing a
Ron Paul hat, said of the raid. “I stand with Gibson all the
way.”  Larry Aull, a retired advertising executive who drove from
Indianapolis for the event, said Gibson is the victim of
selective enforcement. He held a sign saying, “When I play, I
have my Gibson. When I vote I have my pick.”  Blackburn, whose district neighbors the Gibson plant, spoke
at the rally. She said in an interview that she has heard from
furniture, piano and guitar makers who are afraid they’ll also
be targeted by federal agents.  Taylor’s View  “I can see a musical retailer may not sell certain
instruments because you’re not sure,” Erik Autor, vice
president and international trade counsel for the  National
Retail Federation , said in an interview. “It may take a bite
out of your business.”  Charlie Redden, supply-chain manager for Taylor Guitars in
El Cajon, California, says such concerns can be avoided. He said
the closely held company, which produces 90,000 guitars
annually, works with environmental groups to ensure its imported
wood meets legal requirements. Its fingerboards are made of
ebony from Cameroon, he said.  “We support the Lacey Act and think it is good for the
environment,” Redden said in an interview. “I can understand
the anxiety in the market. They should go through the supply
chain to make sure the wood is coming from a reputable source.”  Cheap illegal wood undercuts the value of quality products
from U.S. companies, said Richard Donovan, vice president for
forestry with the Rainforest Alliance, an environmental group
based in  New York .  Yet sending armed agents into a U.S. factory may have gone
too far, he said in an interview.  “We have not seen needs for any of that action,” Donovan
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Nashville at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  