-- 
Google Loses Bid to Keep E-Mail Out of Java Patent Case

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-10-20T23:07:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/google-loses-bid-to-keep-e-mail-secret-in-java-patent-case-1-.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  lost a bid to keep an
engineer’s e-mail saying the company should negotiate a license
for the Java programming language out of an  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  lawsuit
alleging Google software infringes Java patents.  U.S. District Judge William Alsup, who had said at a July
hearing that Google would be “on the losing end of this
document” at trial, ruled today in  San Francisco  that the
electronic message isn’t subject to attorney-client
confidentiality protection. He included the text of the e-mail
in his ruling today.  “We conclude that we need to negotiate a license for Java
under the terms we need,” Google software engineer Tim Lindholm
said in the 2010 message to a company lawyer and  Andy Rubin , who
was vice president in charge of the company’s Android operating
system for mobile devices. Rubin is senior vice president of
Google’s mobile division.  Lindholm’s e-mail said he had been asked by Sergey Brin and
 Larry Page , Google co-founders, to “investigate what technical
alternatives exist to Java for Android.” Oracle could use the
document to convince a jury that Google knew it was infringing
patents on Java when it used the language to develop its
Android, now running on more than 150 million devices.  Oracle, which acquired the patents when it bought Sun
Microsystems Inc., sued Google last year claiming Android
infringes Java technology. The  Redwood City , California-based
company is seeking at least $1 billion for lost license fees and
other damages and a court order that could block sales of
Android devices.  Mistakenly Provided  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , said drafts of
the e-mail were mistakenly turned over to Oracle during document
exchanges. Google took them back and sought to seal portions of
hearings where the e-mail was publicly discussed, saying they
were confidential attorney communications. A magistrate judge
ordered Google to produce the e-mail and make Lindholm available
for questioning in a deposition by Oracle.  “We think there is value in the negotiation to put forward
our most credible alternative, the goal being to get better
terms and price for Java,” Lindholm said in the e-mail. Google
ultimately declined to license Java. Oracle sued Google six days
after Lindholm sent the e-mail, according to Alsup’s ruling.  Google has denied infringing Oracle’s patents.  Jim Prosser, a Google spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to a voice-mail message seeking comment about Alsup’s ruling.
 Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the decision.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v. Google Inc., 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in San Francisco at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 