-- 
Libyans Celebrate Qaddafi’s Death

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   O l a   G a l a l
-- 
2011-10-20T15:36:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/libyans-celebrate-qaddafi-s-end.html
Gunfire echoed across Libya’s main
cities today as crowds poured into the streets to celebrate the
capture and death of  Muammar Qaddafi , who ruled the North
African nation for 42 years.  Initially, fighters in camouflage garb flashed victory
signs, fired their weapons into the air and danced as news
spread that Qaddafi’s hometown of Sirte had fallen. The
celebrations, televised by international broadcasters, reached a
crescendo with the announcement that Qaddafi had died. Men toted
their children on their shoulders, as groups of civilians formed
swirling circles to dance.  “This is the happiest moment of my life,” said Ibrahim
Suleiman, a 22-year-old driver in the eastern city of Benghazi.
“When I heard the news on television I didn’t believe it; I ran
off to the streets and I started jumping up and down.”  In Sirte, cries of “Allahu Akbar,” or “God is Great,”
rang out. In Tripoli, once Qaddafi’s seat of power, children and
ululating women took to the streets to celebrate alongside men.
Some held photos of dead loved ones.  In scenes similar to those that played out in  Egypt  after
President  Hosni Mubarak  was toppled in February, Libyans waving
the tri-color flags that have becomes a symbol of their
revolution chanted: “Raise your head up high; you’re a free
Libyan.” Others yelled: “The blood of martyrs will not go in
vain.”  Qaddafi Hiding  Qaddafi has been in hiding for most of the eight months of
fighting that erupted in February, issuing defiant statements
that he preferred to die a martyr. After he lost control of
Tripoli in August, his loyalists massed in Sirte.  “Tell Muammar and his children, that Libya is the land of
men,” jubilant fighters chanted. One gun-toting man wearing a
black cowboy hat clutched a guitar as his comrades swarmed
around him.  Ali el-Amari, a 23-year-old supermarket worker in Benghazi,
said Qaddafi’s end heralds “a new start for a new  Libya .”  Thousands of Yemenis took to the streets of the capital
Sana’a to celebrate Qaddafi’s death and call for the end of
President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s rule.  “Hey, Ali after Qaddafi,” the protesters chanted in the
so-called Change Square camp, outside Sana’a University. The
demonstators broke out in dance and followed the developments in
Libya on televisions.  “The end of Qaddafi has given us a strong boost that
regardless of how much time our revolt will take, we will win
and the fate of Saleh will be like that of Qaddafi,” Maher al-
Haidari, a protester, said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Galal in Benghazi, Libya, at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  