-- 
Libyans Cheer Over Sirte-Victory Claim Amid Reports Qaddafi Held

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-10-20T11:49:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/libyan-fighters-hoist-flags-over-center-of-sirte-claiming-control-of-town.html
Libyan fighters hoisted national
flags as they claimed control of Muammar Qaddafi’s hometown of
Sirte amid reports that the deposed dictator had been captured
and was injured.  Qaddafi’s injuries are serious,  Agence France-Presse  said,
citing a commander in the former rebel forces. The report
couldn’t be independently verified. A National Transitional
Council spokesman, Mahmoud Shammam, said he couldn’t confirm
that Qaddafi was captured while leaving Sirte. The Misrata
Military Council, which is leading operations in Sirte, said in
an e-mail that it couldn’t comment on the former leader’s fate
for security reasons.  The country’s new leaders cautioned that is was too early
to declare complete victory over Qaddafi’s loyalists.  “Technically speaking, Sirte is under our control but
there are still some pockets of resistance and some Qaddafi
fighters are trying to escape,” Jalal El-Galal, a spokesman for
the NTC, said earlier today in a phone interview in Benghazi.
“The declaration of liberation won’t happen yet.”  Anti-Qaddafi forces in the eastern city of Benghazi joined
the Sirte fighters in celebrating their advances in Sirte. The
scenes in Sirte, where the fighters fired their weapons into the
air, were televised live by broadcasters including  Al Jazeera .  The start of NTC control of Sirte would begin the countdown
to elections for a national council within eight months.  Thousands of civilians fled the Mediterranean town, a major
Qaddafi stronghold, during lulls in fighting, which erupted
early last month after talks on its surrender broke down. The
NTC had attributed the tenacity of Qaddafi loyalists in Sirte to
the presence of his senior aides, including one of his sons,
Mutassim, and to their fear of revenge attacks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in Benghazi at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 