-- 
Libya’s Recapture of U.S. Business Awaits Security Return

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-10-20T13:38:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/libya-s-recapture-of-u-s-business-awaits-security-return.html
Even a civil war didn’t stop  Valmont
Industries Inc. (VMI)  of Omaha, Nebraska, from growing wheat in Libya
this year.  The majority owner of a farm in Benghazi survived
shellings, power outages and water shortages. Now it’s
struggling because Libya’s disrupted banking system wasn’t able
to provide financing in time to plant the next crop, said Greg
Cunningham, the farm’s general manager.  “We’ll have to make some decisions on what to do,” said
Cunningham, when asked whether Valmont was committed to staying
in Libya. “We can’t stay here and lose money for months. We’ll
figure something out.”  The ouster of Muammar Qaddafi -- the man dubbed by former
President Ronald Reagan as “the mad dog of the  Middle East ” --
has left some U.S. companies in limbo, unsure if or when they
will return to Libya or continue to do business there.  The Libya operations of  Hess Corp. (HES) , a New York City-based
oil company, are suspended, said Jon Pepper, a company
spokesman. “It is too early to say when we expect to return to
Libya and resume operations,” he said.  Fluor Corp. (FLR) , an Irving, Texas-based engineering and
construction company, is “currently taking a wait-’n’-see
approach,” spokesman Brian Mershon said.  Return to Libya  Most U.S. companies had to leave the country, which holds
the largest crude-oil reserves in  Africa , when clashes erupted
in February.  Qaddafi died after being captured by forces led by the
Misrata Military Council, the group said today. Its troops led
the assault on Qaddafi’s hometown of Sirte and acted
independently from the interim government, the National
Transitional Council.  The pace of any return by U.S. businesses will depend
partly on how quickly and how well the National Transitional
Council provides security and basic needs such as housing,
water, electricity and sewage, said Chuck Dittrich, executive
director of the U.S.-Libya Business Association.  Government contracting may be delayed because a new
government may not be formed for weeks or months. Still, many
U.S. companies are likely to gradually resume or open operations
in Libya as long as conditions improve.  “When the war started, everything stopped and some of them
lost money,” said Ahmad Miski, executive director of the U.S.-
Arab Chamber of Commerce in  Washington . “When the new
government starts, we expect much bigger business than before.”  Conference Call  In a sign of interest in the country, about 150 companies
took part in a conference call last month with the U.S.
ambassador to Libya,  Gene Cretz , who emphasized that
restrictions on business had been lifted for U.S. companies,
said Alyce Abdullah, the State Department’s Libya desk officer.
Business leaders on the call came from a range of sectors that
included energy, transportation and telecommunications.  Among those weighing a resumption of business is Houston-
based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provides energy, engineering and
construction services.  “Libya is in an assessment phase and is expected to make a
positive contribution in 2012,” Dave Lesar, Halliburton’s chief
executive officer, said in an Oct. 17 statement announcing
third-quarter earnings.  Joint Venture  Waha Oil Co., a U.S.-Libyan joint venture, plans to resume
crude oil output by the end of this year, once repairs to its
facilities are completed and a dispute with workers is resolved,
said Mohamed Elabdaly, head of the company’s crisis committee,
in an Oct. 18 interview in Benghazi.  The company is 59 percent-owned by Libya’s state-run
National Oil Corp., with the rest held by Hess,  Marathon Oil
Corp. (MRO)  of Houston,  Texas , and  ConocoPhillips (COP) , also based in
Houston.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , on a visit to the
country on Oct. 18, said Libyans “deserve an economy that
delivers jobs, dignity and opportunities to all, not just to the
powerful and connected.”  Leaders of the ruling council have told their U.S.
counterparts that they want to broaden Libya’s economic base and
eliminate the cronyism that characterized the oil industry under
Qaddafi, a U.S. official told reporters accompanying Clinton.
The transitional leadership has pledged to honor all Qaddafi-era
oil contracts.  1986 Bombing  Libya was mostly shut off from U.S. business after
President Ronald Reagan bombed Qaddafi’s Tripoli compound in
1986 because of his support of terrorism. It experienced a surge
in U.S. business interest after 2004, when President George W. Bush lifted most sanctions in return for Qaddafi agreeing to
abandon his nuclear weapons program.  U.S. exports to Libya grew to $665.5 million last year, up
from $39.2 million in 2004. Imports have also grown, along with
trade deficits. U.S. imports from Libya, mainly oil, totaled
$2.1 billion last year, up from $331.6 million in 2004, U.S.
Census Bureau  data  show. The U.S. ran a trade deficit with Libya
last year of $1.45 billion.  Before the war, several U.S. oil companies had invested in
Libya’s energy production, including Hess, Occidental Petroleum
Corp. of Los Angeles, and ConocoPhillips, according to the
Congressional Research Service.  Libya produced 1.8 million barrels of  oil  per day, or about
2.9 percent of global oil trade in 2009, the CRS said in a March
10, 2011, report.  The war’s economic cost to U.S. companies can be measured
partly by the drop in monthly U.S. exports to Libya this year,
which fell to $1.1 million in August from $72.6 million in
January.  European Competition  Ali Aujali, the Libyan ambassador to Washington, has said
companies from the U.S. and other NATO countries that aided the
rebellion will be favored in deals and investments.  “We will of course deal with the countries who helped us
and supported us,” Aujali said in an interview last month with
Bloomberg Businessweek. “It will be a different treatment than
the countries who hesitated.”  Still, some European companies may be better positioned to
win that work because their countries were more prominent in the
military effort to overthrow Qaddafi, said Larry Allen,
president of Allen Federal Business Partners, a procurement
consulting firm.  “It is very serendipitous for some of these companies that
Libya is now opening up as an opportunity,” Allen said.  Exports and Imports  Libya exported more oil and other goods to  Italy ,  France ,
 China , Spain and  Germany  than it did to the U.S. in 2010,
according to the CIA World Factbook. For imports, the leading
countries were Italy, China, Turkey, France, Germany, South
Korea and  Egypt .  The U.S. is likely to face competition in several areas,
including defense. With much of the Qaddafi regime’s Soviet-made
weaponry destroyed by the NATO air campaign, Libya may be a
lucrative market for companies such as  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  of
Bethesda, Maryland, and  Dassault Aviation SA (AM)  of Paris.  Since the Arab Spring movement began in January, toppling
regimes in Tunisia, Egypt and Libya, the Obama administration
has injected funds into the region to bolster economies and
foster trade and investment, both with and within the Middle
East and North Africa.  Clinton pledged $2 billion in March through the Overseas
Private Investment Corporation, the development financing arm of
the U.S. government, to support private-sector investment in the
region.  Commerce Department Advice  The U.S. Commerce Department, through its Market Access and
Compliance Office, is fielding phone calls from U.S. companies
interested in Libya and advising them of the situation on the
ground as information is available, said Parita Shah, deputy
director of public affairs.  Few companies have as longstanding ties to Libya as
Valmont, the Nebraska-based agricultural and manufacturing
company that began working on irrigation projects in the country
in the 1970s.  After sanctions were lifted in 2004, Valmont began
supplying equipment to the Benghazi farm and took over its
management two years ago in a joint venture, said Richard
Berkland, a vice president of international sales.  The farm’s management company, Farmco, is 52 percent owned
by Valmont, 28 percent by  CNH Global NV (CNH)  of Amsterdam, and 20
percent by the Libyan government, said Greg Cunningham, the
general manager, in an interview from Benghazi. The farm
produced more than half the wheat grown in Libya this year.  When the war broke out, Cunningham said, “The Libyans
really stepped up and pulled through. We did not lose a single
piece of equipment.”  Villager Protection  Villagers protected the business, putting up roadblocks and
screening people entering the property, he said. By April, rebel
forces had stationed troops on the farm to protect it, and the
harvest yielded 4.5 tons of wheat.  The company got permission from the State Department to
continue operating under sanctions on the grounds that food was
needed in Benghazi and the company had no connection to the
Qaddafi regime, Cunningham said.  While the future of the farm operation is still unclear,
lobbyists such as Dittrich say there is plenty of reason for
optimism for Valmont and other companies to prosper in a new
Libya.  “The potential is really strong,” he said. “It’s a
country with a relatively small population. They have a
tremendous amount of resources and money that’s immediately
available. All of the ingredients are there for this to work out
well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  