-- 
Icahn Bet on Battered Trucks Signals Navistar-Oshkosh: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 
2011-10-21T20:18:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/icahn-bet-on-battered-trucks-signals-navistar-oshkosh-real-m-a.html
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  may
be counting on a combination of America’s two cheapest
commercial truckmakers as their shareholders look to recoup $2.8
billion in losses this year.  Icahn last week revealed a 9.8 percent stake in  Navistar
International Corp. (NAV) , the 109-year-old manufacturer of trucks and
buses, making him the second-largest investor. Since reporting
in June he owned 9.5 percent of  Oshkosh Corp. (OSK) , shares of the
U.S. military’s biggest armored-trucks supplier have fallen 36
percent. Navistar and Oshkosh, which lost a combined 38 percent
in market value this year, are both trading at the steepest
discounts to sales among U.S. commercial truckmakers greater
than $1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Even as truck demand recovers from the longest recession
since the Great Depression, sales at Navistar of Warrenville,
 Illinois , and Oshkosh have been hampered by tighter U.S. defense
spending on military vehicles. Higher production costs at
Navistar and fewer purchases of Oshkosh’s trash trucks and fire
engines by cash-strapped local governments have also undercut
profits. The two could boost earnings by combining manufacturing
operations, buying materials in greater bulk and using Navistar
engines in Oshkosh vehicles, said Sterne Agee & Leach Inc.  Icahn “may want to put the two together,” Patrick Nolan,
a Stuart, Florida-based analyst for Penn Capital Management Co.,
said in a telephone interview. “He’s probably thinking the
trucking cycle is here to stay and if there’s less downturn than
people think on the military spending side, these things are
pretty cheap at current levels.”  Penn Capital oversees $6.5 billion including about 300,000
shares of Navistar.  MaxxForce Engines  Icahn, 75, the chairman of  Icahn Enterprises LP (IEP) , didn’t
return a telephone message seeking comment.  Navistar doesn’t comment on individual shareholders and is
“always open to dialogue with its investors that can enhance
 shareholder value ,” Karen Denning, a spokeswoman for the
company, said in an e-mail. John Daggett, a spokesman for
Oshkosh, which is based in the Wisconsin town of the same name,
declined to comment on a potential combination.  Oshkosh rose 8.2 percent to $19.90 as of 4:10 p.m. today in
New York, the biggest advance since July 1. Navistar climbed 4
percent to $41.69.  Navistar, which  sells  International brand trucks, MaxxForce
engines and vehicles for military use, has been selling more
trucks in mass, and the discounts are crimping profitability.
The price of a single truck sold at a dealership is as much as
10 percent higher than a truck bought as part of a fleet, Dan Ustian, Navistar’s chief executive officer, said on an earnings
call last month.  School Buses  Shares of Navistar, which has the top market share in the
U.S. and  Canada  for school buses and medium trucks, had fallen
31 percent this year to $40.10 as of yesterday, giving it a
market capitalization of $2.91 billion. The company’s value was
$4.16 billion at the end of last year.  Oshkosh manufactures vehicles for the U.S. Department of
Defense that  haul tankers , missile systems, fuel and troops and
made up 72 percent of the company’s $9.84 billion in revenue
last year. The government only contributed about 15 percent of
Navistar’s revenue, down from 27 percent in 2008.  The Defense Department faces cuts of about $450 billion
from its 10-year spending plans. If Congress and President
 Barack Obama  can’t agree on at least $1.5 trillion in savings
across the entire federal budget for the next decade, an added
$500 billion must be taken from the military budget.  Discount to Sales  Oshkosh, which also sells fire trucks and ambulances to
cities and counties, is projected to post a 67 percent decline
in net income this year, according to analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares of Oshkosh had fallen 48 percent this year through
yesterday, wiping out $1.52 billion for shareholders and giving
it a current market capitalization of $1.68 billion.  Navistar and Oshkosh were both valued yesterday at 0.22
times their sales in the last 12 months, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The 78 percent discount makes them cheaper than
all 13 other U.S. commercial vehicle and truck makers greater
than $1 billion. The group has an average price-sales ratio of
0.87 times. Oshkosh is also valued at the cheapest relative to
earnings in the industry, the data show.  While Oshkosh depended on the U.S. for 90 percent of its
fiscal 2010 sales, Navistar generated 28 percent of its $12.1
billion in revenue outside America, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Navistar got 7.9 percent of its sales from  Brazil ,
where the economy expanded 7.6 percent in 2010, more than twice
as fast as the U.S., data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Very Cheap Asset’  “Navistar is clearly trading at attractive multiples, on
top of which there are some major growth opportunities -- a
cyclical recovery and a growing footprint in emerging markets,”
Brian Sponheimer, an analyst at Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New York,
said in a phone interview. “Oshkosh is, at worst, a very cheap
asset right now.”  Gabelli is a unit of Gamco Investors Inc., which oversees
$35 billion including about 3.1 million shares of Navistar.  Icahn disclosed Oct. 13 in a  regulatory filing  that he had
bought 7.11 million Navistar shares, including those underlying
 call options , since August. He made the purchases for about
$118.1 million because the stock is “undervalued at current
levels,” according to the filing.  Icahn said he’s had conversations with management and
discussed the possibility of adding board members. This week
Navistar  extended  the deadline for board member nominations by
almost a month to Nov. 15.  Replacing Old Trucks  Since rising 7.3 percent the day after the investment was
disclosed, Navistar shares have retreated 3.4 percent this week.  “We don’t buy these things for week-to-week or month-to-
month returns,” Icahn said about the Navistar investment in an
Oct. 17 interview on  CNBC . He said he sees “good things” for
Navistar in the next few years as fleets of older trucks need to
be replaced.  The average age in the U.S. of Class 8 trucks -- the heavy
vehicles that are the backbone of interstate hauling -- is 6.7
years, the oldest on record, Gabelli’s Sponheimer said. Class 8
truck sales in  North America  will rise 4.4 percent to 261,000 in
2012, according to FTR Associates, a trucking-industry
forecaster based in Nashville,  Indiana .  In June Icahn  said  he held 8.67 million shares, including
call options, of Oshkosh that were purchased for about $129.5
million “in the belief that the shares were undervalued.”
Since then, when Icahn also said he would seek talks with
management, Oshkosh has lost 36 percent, more than twice the 14
percent decline of the Standard & Poor’s Midcap 400 Index.  Navistar-Oshkosh Combination  “Both stakes are relatively recent, and there are probably
some pretty meaningful synergies between the two companies,”
 Kirk Ludtke , an analyst at Stamford, Connecticut-based CRT
Capital Group LLC, said in a telephone interview.  Combining Navistar and Oshkosh would cut costs by
consolidating manufacturing operations and would better insulate
against swings in military budgets, Ben-Ari Elias, a New York-
based analyst at Sterne Agee, said in a phone interview.  “You put the two together, you have a company that’s
reduced inefficiencies even further, has more scale when it
comes to buying raw materials and you don’t need to double
manufacture cement trucks or garbage trucks or even fire
trucks,” Elias said. “Municipal governments are so broke that
no one can spend on new fire trucks.”  More than half of U.S. municipal officials say finances
were worse in fiscal 2011 than in 2010, according to the
National League of Cities 26th annual City Fiscal Conditions
 report . Inflation-adjusted revenue is headed for a fifth-
straight annual drop, the survey showed last month.  Icahn’s Agenda  Icahn should merge the two and then spin off the combined
military business, which has been a drag on both stocks, said
Penn Capital’s Nolan. The new entity, which would be focused on
trucks and engines, may then attract interest from a European
manufacturer looking for sales in North America, he said.  Still, splitting off Oshkosh’s and Navistar’s combined
military units would be difficult now because concerns about
lower military spending would reduce the valuation, Nolan said.  Navistar may even be an acquisition candidate on its own
because it’s cheap right now, Andrew Baumbusch, a  fund manager 
for Cambiar Investors LLC, said in a phone interview from
Denver. The firm oversees about $8 billion, including about
300,000 shares of Navistar.  “I don’t know what Icahn’s agenda is,” said Cambiar’s
Baumbusch. “But I’m sure that he wants these stocks he bought
to be worth more than they are when he sells them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 