-- 
ICE Clear to Offer First Credit Default Swap Clearing for Sovereign Debt

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-10-20T18:23:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/ice-clear-to-offer-first-credit-default-swap-clearing-for-sovereign-debt.html
Intercontinental Exchange Inc.,
owner of the world’s largest credit-default swap clearinghouse,
said it will start guaranteeing contracts on sovereign debt for
the first time.  The company, owner of ICE Clear Credit, will begin backing 
swap trades on  Brazil  and Mexico on Oct. 31, with transactions
for  Argentina  and  Venezuela  to follow, it said in a statement
today. These will be the first sovereign contracts to be
processed by a clearinghouse, the Atlanta-based company said.  Clearing swaps on Latin American nations is a first step in
overcoming one of regulators’ and banks’ biggest hurdles to
curbing the risks that $28.5 trillion in outstanding contracts
pose to the global financial system. While banks have moved many
of the contracts linked to corporations into clearinghouses,
they’re struggling to do the same for contracts on themselves
and countries in which they’re based without having to require
collateral postings that would make the trades uneconomical.  “There are some very thorny risk issues,” Jeffrey Sprecher, chief executive officer of  Intercontinental Exchange ,
said in an Oct. 11 interview, referring to the issue of clearing
swaps on the banks that are members of his clearinghouse. “We
haven’t wanted to touch that one until we figure out the
sovereigns,” he said.  Dealer Swaps  The complexity of housing some of the most volatile and
correlated credit swaps in a clearinghouse capitalized by the
same lenders whose debt is protected by the contracts has
prevented their inclusion in the risk-mitigating service. The
obstacle extends to contracts linked to countries in which the
banks are based. The issue is one of the derivatives industry’s
biggest challenges, Sprecher said.  The risk has been underscored in recent months as  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis pushed the average cost of protecting
credit swaps on dealers and their home nations to a record.  Contracts on financial companies and government entities
account for the largest part of the so-called single-name
credit-default swap market, accounting for $6.2 trillion, or 41
percent of the total $15.4 trillion in outstanding single-name
contracts as of Oct. 14, according to the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp. Of that, $1.5 trillion is linked to banks that
back the clearinghouses and the countries in which they are
based.  ‘Need to Manage’  Regulators and clearinghouse owners have yet to act as
European concerns are causing a surge in demand for the debt
protection.  “The banks and sovereigns are where people are concerned
about risk the most today,” said Kevin McPartland, director of
fixed-income research in New York at Tabb Group, a research and
advisory firm. “This is an exposure people need to manage, so
we need to figure out a way to manage it.”  There were $812.4 billion of credit swaps outstanding on
the 16 banks that are members of Intercontinental Exchange’s
clearinghouses in the U.S. and Europe. An additional $714
billion of swap contracts protect against default by six of the
home countries of those banks: the U.K., U.S.,  Germany ,  France ,
 Italy  and  Japan .  Switzerland , home to clearing banks UBS AG and
Credit Suisse Group AG, isn’t included in the top 1,000 credit
swaps contracts disclosed by DTCC.  The data is a gross figure, meaning it doesn’t subtract
trades that offset each other.  Sufficient Margin  The problem for the credit swaps written against the
dealers and their home counties is how to set sufficient margin
levels and still make the contracts attractive to users,
McPartland said. Margin is the collateral investors must provide
to back adverse price movements in their trades.  “The correlations seem so high the only way they can
manage the risk is to get the margin higher,” he said. “But if
they become economically unusable, then what happens?” The
ripple effect from a home country of a major dealer defaulting
is also a thorny issue, he said.  He estimated that margin for credit swaps on the dealers
who are members of Intercontinental’s clearinghouses would have
to be 20 percent to 25 percent of the notional value of the
trades, a very high level.  “There aren’t many people who would do that,” McPartland
said. “It might suddenly become more economical to short the
bond than do the credit-default swaps.”  Record Costs  As regulators and Wall Street debate how to clear bank and
sovereign swaps, the cost of protecting against defaults with
the contracts reached a record this month amid Europe’s fiscal
turmoil.  The average credit swap on the 16 banks and six nations
climbed to as high as 297.3 basis points on Oct. 4, surpassing
the 295.6 basis points reached in March 2009, when the global
economy was in the midst of the worst recession in seven decades
and credit markets had seized up in the wake of the September
2008 bankruptcy by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  A measure of price swings for those swaps over a 30-day
period jumped to as high as 82.5 last month, from 19.4 at the
start of June.  By comparison, volatility for the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, a benchmark that is tied to 125
companies in the U.S. and  Canada  and doesn’t include the swaps
dealers, peaked at 64.7 on Sept. 13, from 19 on June 1.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  ‘Capable of Failing’  There were $432.1 billion of outstanding contracts on the
governments of Brazil,  Mexico , Venezuela and Argentina as of
Oct. 14, according to DTCC. After subtracting trades that offset
each other, the net amount of protection bought and sold on the
countries was $31.2 billion, DTCC data show.  ICE Clear Credit received approval from the Securities and
Exchange Commission to back the sovereign trades, it said in the
statement. The company’s application to the U.K.’s Financial
Services Authority to be allowed to clear credit swaps on the
sovereign debt of European countries is pending, Sprecher said.  As for credit swaps on the dealers and their home
countries, Sprecher said regulators need to weigh in.  “We need the regulators to work with us and agree on how
to do the risk management,” he said. The issue of processing
the credit swaps on the dealer members of his clearinghouse is
“concerning,” he said. “We have to look at each member as if
they’re capable of failing at any time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net  or
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  