-- 
Microsoft Sales Beat Estimates on Demand

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-10-21T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/microsoft-quarterly-sales-beat-estimates-on-demand-from-business-customers.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the largest
software maker, reported first-quarter sales that topped
analysts’ predictions as companies invested in Office and server
programs, outweighing poor consumer demand for computers.  Sales rose 7.3 percent to $17.4 billion, compared with the
$17.2 billion average analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg.
Net income in the period that ended in September rose 6.1
percent to $5.74 billion, or 68 cents a share, from $5.41
billion, or 62 cents, a year earlier, Microsoft said yesterday
in a  statement . Profit met the average 68-cent projection.  Corporate customers are buying Office productivity software
as well as the  Windows operating system  and databases for their
networks. Microsoft is also benefiting from the revenue that
comes from multiyear contracts sold to businesses. That’s helped
compensate for waning consumer personal-computer purchases.  “People are still buying billions of dollars worth of
Microsoft products every month,” said  Colin Gillis , an analyst
with BGC Partners in  New York . “This is not going away.”  Microsoft, little changed in extended trading, fell 9 cents
to close at $27.04 in U.S. trading yesterday. The shares had
declined 3.1 percent this year before today.  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft said operating expenses
in the year that started July 1 will rise to $28.6 billion to
$29.2 billion, above the $28 billion to $28.6 billion it
forecast in April and reiterated in July.  Unearned revenue, a measure of future sales, was $15.7
billion in the first quarter, above the $15.5 billion average
analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Bit of Relief’  Microsoft is bearing up well, even amid sluggish economic
growth and lackluster demand for personal computers, said Tony Ursillo, an analyst in  Boston  at Loomis Sayles & Co., which owns
Microsoft shares.  “The results might be viewed as a bit of a relief, given
the ongoing concerns about the PC market and the macroeconomic
environment,” Ursillo said.  Corporations are buying machines pre-loaded with Windows 7
and upgrading to  Office 2010 , which was released more than a
year ago. Server software like the Windows version for corporate
networks and the SQL database are also propelling revenue
growth.  Business division sales, mostly consisting of Office
software, rose 7.7 percent to $5.62 billion, compared with the
$5.5 billion analysts had expected. Server unit sales rose 10
percent to $4.25 billion. Analysts had projected $4.3 billion.  Budgets ‘Squeezed’  Spending by businesses may slow down if the economy doesn’t
improve, said Josh Olson, a technology analyst at Edward Jones &
Co.  “Enterprise budgets are going to be squeezed to some
extent going forward,” Olson said. “The picture isn’t as rosy
as we had thought six months back.”  PC weakness held back growth at Microsoft’s Windows
division, where sales rose 1.7 percent to $4.87 billion, shy of
the $4.9 billion average analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  Total PC shipments rose less than forecast in the third
quarter, dragged down by disappointing back-to-school sales,
economic frailty and a shift to tablets and smartphones,
according to Gartner Inc. Shipments climbed 3.2 percent, below
the 5.1 percent growth it previously projected.  A total of 91.8 million PCs were shipped in the period.
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  sold 11.1 million iPad tablets at the same time,
setting a record for the product.  PC Weakness  The PC market will grow 4.2 percent to 361.6 million units
this year as consumers buy fewer machines, according to market
researcher IDC. In the same period, the smartphone market will
jump 55 percent to 472 million units, making it bigger than PCs
by that measure for the first time, IDC said.  Demand for tablets is taking a bigger toll on low-memory
netbook computers than on standard PCs that run Windows, said
Bill Koefoed, general manager of  investor relations  at
Microsoft.  “When people need to do work, to create content, they are
using a PC,” he said.  Even so, Microsoft is rushing to complete a new version of
Windows capable of running smaller, thinner tablet computers
with battery life to rival that of the iPad. The company showed
the new software at a conference in September and got some
encouraging reviews. It won’t be ready until next year, people
familiar with the matter said in March.  Jane Snorek , a senior research analyst at Nuveen Asset
Management, which owns Microsoft shares, said that may help the
company gain a foothold in the tablet market.  “I don’t think the stock does anything until that gets
resolved,” Snorek said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 