-- 
Middle East Leaders Address Unemployment in Arab Spring’s Wake

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-10-20T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/middle-east-leaders-address-unemployment-in-arab-spring-s-wake.html
Middle Eastern politicians and
business leaders meet today in  Jordan  to confront the problems
of persistent unemployment and slow economic growth after almost
a year of regional unrest.  King Abdullah of Jordan is hosting leaders including Iraqi
Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki and Egyptian Prime Minister Essam Sharaf at the event, organized by the  World Economic Forum , to
address  job creation  in the region. Senior executives from
Riyadh-based  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s largest
petrochemical maker, the  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , Huawei Technologies Co.
Ltd. of  China , National Bank of  Kuwait  and Egypt’s Beltone
Financial are also scheduled to attend the event on the  Dead
Sea , which ends Oct. 23.  Led mainly by Arab youths seeking jobs and greater
political freedoms, popular uprisings have toppled autocratic
leaders in Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya  this year in what has been
termed the Arab Spring. The political unrest has caused risk
premiums to rise and private financing and tourism receipts to
fall, undermining economic growth and putting pressure on
governments to support their expanding populations.  Employment “is going to be a tough challenge,”
Abdelkhaliq Abdulla, professor of political science at the
United Arab Emirates University in the U.A.E., said in a phone
interview. “Arab Spring or no Arab Spring, it’s one of the
major challenges facing all the countries throughout the  Middle
East . It’s good to lower expectations.”  Youth Unemployment  The youth unemployment rate of 25 percent in the Middle
East “exceeds that of any other region in the world,” the
 International Monetary Fund  said in its April 2011  regional
outlook  for the Middle East and Central Asia. Joblessness “is
largely a youth phenomenon,” with people between the ages of 15
and 24 accounting for 40 percent of all people without jobs in
the region, and this figure rising to as much as 60 percent in
 Egypt  and Syria, the IMF said.  Violence has spread across the Middle East as demonstrators
seek the ouster of presidents Ali Abdullah Saleh in Yemen and
Bashar al-Assad in Syria. Libya’s former leader Muammar Qaddafi
was killed during fighting in his hometown of Sirte, opening the
way for the country’s new rulers to declare liberation and hold
national elections.  An unemployed 26-year-old in Tunisia, Mohamed Bouazizi,
helped trigger the regional unrest with his self-immolation in
December. Zine el Abidine Ben Ali fled the country Jan. 14,
putting an end to a 23-year rule, after a month of protests over
unemployment, food prices and corruption.  Hosni Mubarak  was
forced from power in Egypt a month later, after thousands of
protesters took to the streets across the Arab world’s most
populous nation.  Economic Disruption  Economic growth for Middle Eastern oil importers is
forecast to slow to 1.4 percent this year, from 4.5 percent last
year, according to IMF data. The oil exporters’ economies will
expand by 4.9 percent in 2011 from 4.4 percent last year,
according to the IMF.  Tunisia  will record no economic growth this year, from 3.1
percent last year, due to “disruptions to economic activity,”
the IMF said in its outlook. Growth in Egypt will slow to 1.2
percent from 5.1 percent last year, according to the IMF.
Previous governments have said the Egyptian economy needs to
grow by at least 7 percent to provide enough jobs for the
rapidly expanding population.  The unrest has had a “negative impact” on services and
investment in the region, said Liz Martins, a senior economist
with HSBC Bank Middle East Ltd. “We don’t have regular data for
many Middle East and North African states, but for those where
we do, the impact so far has been net negative. For Egypt, the
revolution has cost 600,000 jobs.”  Borrowing Costs  Egyptian government borrowing costs have risen to the
highest level in almost three years, with the yield on one-year
treasury bills soaring 344 basis points since the start of the
revolution to 13.88 percent last month. The rate was at 13.72
percent at an auction Oct. 13.  Egypt’s tourist arrivals from January to July dropped 39
percent compared with the same period last year, Tourism
Minister Mounir Fakhry Abdel Nour said on Aug. 17. Tunisia’s
tourism revenue dropped 39 percent during the first nine months
of 2011, the Tourism Ministry said in a statement on Sept. 28.
Tourism and related  service industries  are one of the main
employers in both countries.  Egypt’s stock exchange is also down 40 percent this year,
while Tunisia’s has fallen 9 percent.  Contracting Economy  Syria ’s economic growth may contract by 2 percent this
year, according to the IMF. In April, it had forecast 3 percent
growth for the country, where President Bashar al-Assad has
deployed tanks, armored vehicles, artillery and helicopters to
put down an uprising that began in mid-March. The protests are
the most serious challenge to the regime since the 1980s, when
Assad’s late father, President Hafez al-Assad, crushed a
rebellion centered on the town of Hama.  At least 4,000 Syrian civilians have been killed by
security forces in the current uprising, according to Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization for Human Rights in Syria.
The  United Nations  published a lower death toll on Oct. 14 of
more than 3,000, including at least 187 children.  The Syrian government needs to do more to tackle corruption
and reduce unemployment, which is the country’s “biggest
problem,” Assad said in a televised speech in April. The Syrian
jobless rate stood at 8.4 percent in the first half of 2010, the
Arab country’s state statistics office said in December.  Demographic ‘Disaster’  “The waves of people born in the 10 years following the
regime’s 1982 crackdown have entered or are entering the job
market,” said Andrew Tabler, a Syria analyst at the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy and author of the book “In the
Lion’s Den: An Eyewitness.” “They make up the backbone of the
protest movement. This is a disaster for the Assad regime.”  The oil-rich Gulf nations are trying to use oil revenue to
create jobs for their citizens. In June,  King Abdullah  of Saudi
Arabia imposed quotas that may force employers to cut foreign
staff, in a country where nine out of 10 non-government
employees are foreigners.  Between 2000 and 2010, approximately 7 million new jobs
were created in the Gulf Cooperation Council countries, of which
fewer than 2 million went to nationals, according to a  report 
issued by the IMF this month. Although job creation is set to
remain high, there could be as many as 2 million to 3 million
additional unemployed GCC citizens by 2015, it said.  To address this issue in Saudi Arabia, King Abdullah has
vowed to get more women working and his government is hiring
too. He pledged 66,000 jobs in teaching and health care, mostly
for women, as part of $130 billion of extra spending announced
in February and March.  “Rapidly growing labor forces and, in several countries,
reduced financial capacity to absorb new entrants in the public-
sector, the traditional source of employment, means it is very
important that new jobs are created in the region,” said Paul Gamble, head of research at Riyadh-based Jadwa Investment Co.
“ Saudi Arabia  creates a lot of jobs, but these are filled
mainly by expatriates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Dubai at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  