-- 
LightSquared, GPS Maker Boost Lobbying in Washington Showdown

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-10-20T21:04:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/lightsquared-gps-maker-boost-lobbying-in-washington-showdown.html
Philip Falcone ’s LightSquared
wireless venture and its critic  Trimble Navigation Ltd. (TRMB)  boosted
lobbying this year as a fight escalated in  Washington  over
whether the project will harm the global-positioning system.  Lobbying spending by Reston, Virginia-based LightSquared
climbed to at least $1.2 million from Jan. 1 through Sept. 30, a
123 percent increase from the first nine months of 2010,
according to U.S. Senate records reviewed today.  Spending by Sunnyvale, California-based navigation-gear
maker Trimble reached $1 million through Sept. 30, more than
triple the amount from the same period a year earlier, according
to Senate records. Today is the deadline for third-quarter
lobbying reports to be filed with the Senate.  LightSquared, backed by $3 billion from Falcone’s Harbinger
Capital Partners hedge fund, wants to offer high-speed  Internet
service  to as many as 260 million people using airwaves
previously reserved mainly for satellites.  Trimble and other makers and users of global-positioning
system devices say LightSquared’s signals will interfere with
navigation by planes, boats, tractors and cars. U.S. regulators
are deciding how to handle complaints by the military and the
GPS industry about possible interference from LightSquared.  The lobbying figures for the two companies represent
reported payments to outside groups for efforts to influence
members of Congress and federal agencies. House committees have
held four hearings on LightSquared, and the Federal
Communications Commission and a Commerce Department agency are
reviewing the company’s plans.  LightSquared this year has hired former Pennsylvania
Governor  Ed Rendell , a Democrat, and the Gephardt Group, a firm
headed by former U.S. Representative Dick Gephardt, a Democrat
from  Missouri  who served as House majority leader, according to
disclosure filings.  Lobbyists hired by Trimble this year include former Vic Fazio, a California Democrat, and Bill Paxon, a New York
Republican, both former U.S. representatives.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  