-- 
Lille Wants $63 Million for Winger Eden Hazard, Mail Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-10-20T10:00:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/lille-wants-63-million-for-winger-eden-hazard-mail-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Hazard to Premier League?  Belgium international Eden Hazard may leave Lille for the
Premier League after the French side put a price tag of 40
million pounds ($63 million) on the player, the  Daily Mail 
reported.  Liverpool, Arsenal, Chelsea and  Manchester City  are all
interested in the 20-year-old winger. They face competition from
Barcelona and Real Madrid, the paper said.  Peru’s Polo in Demand  Liverpool has invited Peru player Andy Polo to Anfield as
the club tries to fend off interest for the 17-year-old from
Arsenal, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Arsenal has already been in talks regarding Polo, who plays
in the first team of Universitario de Deportes and has also been
called up for the national squad.  Soldado to Spurs?  Tottenham Hotspur manager  Harry Redknapp  may make a bid for
Valencia player Roberto Soldado during the January transfer
window in order to boost his attacking options, the  Daily Mail 
reported.  An offer for Soldado would depend on whether the  London 
club finds a buyer for its Russian striker Roman Pavlyuchenko,
the paper said.  Simpson Leaving Newcastle?  Danny Simpson may leave  Newcastle United  in January because
his place is under pressure from new signing Davide Santon, the
 Daily Mirror  reported.  “There is a chance in the future that I will be moving,
whether in the transfer market window or in the summer,” the
paper quoted the player as saying. Simpson has 18 months left on
his contract.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 