-- 
India’s Bond Yields Rise to Three-Year High on Inflation, Rates

-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-10-20T12:41:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/indian-bonds-gain-as-yields-at-three-year-high-attract-investors.html
India ’s 10-year bonds fell for a
second day as a government official said inflation remains at
"higher than acceptable" levels, fueling speculation the central
bank will raise borrowing costs at a meeting next week.  Yields rose to a three-year high after Chakravarthy
Rangarajan, chairman of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory
Council, said authorities should use  interest rates  and fiscal
measures to curb prices. The  Reserve Bank  of India will boost
its repurchase rate for a seventh time this year on Oct. 25,
according to 13 of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Recent statements from policy makers have made the
possibility of rate hike a certainty,” said  Anoop Verma , a
fixed-income trader at Development Credit Bank in Mumbai.
“Inflation continues to be at elevated levels.”  The yield on the 7.8 percent notes due April 2021 rose one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.79 percent in
Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system. That is
the highest closing level for benchmark 10-year rates since
August 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rates on the securities jumped 35 basis points this month,
heading for the biggest increase for 10-year notes since May
2009, after the government said it will borrow 32 percent more
than previously estimated in the six months through March.  While six of the economists surveyed predicted no change in
the central bank’s benchmark rate, the rest forecast a 25 basis
points increase to 8.50 percent.  Inflation  Gains in the benchmark wholesale-price index has held above
9 percent for 10 months. The gauge rose 9.72 percent from a year
earlier in September, according to government data.  An index measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products gained 10.6 percent in the week ended Oct. 8, the
commerce ministry said in a statement today. That’s the biggest
increase since the week ended April 16.  “The fact that inflation is triggered by food inflation or
supply side constraints doesn’t mean that the monetary policy
doesn’t have a role to play,” Rangarajan said reporters in  New
Delhi  today.  The government revised its borrowing target for the second
half of this fiscal year to 2.2 trillion rupees ($44 billion) on
Sept. 29 from 1.67 trillion rupees earlier.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs,
rose one basis point to 8.24 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  