-- 
Singh’s Top Aide Signals Need for Higher Rates in India on Inflation Risk

-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-10-20T09:39:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/india-s-food-inflation-quickens-to-10-6-near-a-six-month-high.html
A top economic adviser to Indian
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  signaled the need for higher
 interest rates  before next week’s monetary policy decision as
food inflation climbed to near a six-month high. Bonds fell.  “The fact that inflation is triggered by food inflation or
supply side constraints doesn’t mean that the monetary policy
doesn’t have a role to play,” Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman
of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, told
reporters in New Delhi today.  India ’s government and central bank have in recent days
indicated the need to pursue a tight monetary policy to tame an
inflation that has exceeded 9 percent since the start of
December. By contrast, emerging markets from  Brazil  to  Russia 
have cut borrowing costs to counter the risks posed by  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery.  “The RBI will be more focused on inflation than swayed by
what other countries are doing,” said N.R. Bhanumurthy, a New
Delhi-based economist at the National Institute of Public
Finance. “India has a much worse inflation problem than other
countries and the RBI will continue to tighten until inflation
comes down significantly.”  He expects the  Reserve Bank of India  to increase its
repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 8.5
percent in the Oct. 25 policy decision.  An index measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products gained 10.6 percent in the week ended Oct. 8, the
commerce ministry said in a statement today. That’s the biggest
increase since the week ended April 16.  Bonds Fall  India’s 10-year bonds fell after Rangarajan said inflation
was higher than acceptable.  The yield on the 7.80 percent note due April 2021 rose to
8.82 percent at 3:05 p.m. in Mumbai from 8.76 percent before the
comments were made. The BSE India Sensitive Index declined 1
percent and the rupee weakened 0.8 percent to 49.56 against the
dollar.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation was 9.72
percent in September, staying above 9 percent for a 10th month.  Reserve Bank  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has boosted the
central bank’s benchmark rate by 350 basis points in 12 moves
since mid-March 2010, the fastest round of increases since the
central bank was established in 1935, Bloomberg data show.  The governor in July predicted inflation to ease to 7
percent by March 31. He forecast  India’s economy  will expand
about 8 percent in the fiscal year through March from 8.5
percent in the previous year.  ‘Under Pressure’  India’s inflation may be “under pressure” until December
and the Reserve Bank “need not” follow the policy of reducing
interest rates being pursued by some of its counterparts abroad,
Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said yesterday.  Subbarao said Oct. 12 that inflation must ease before
India’s central bank can start easing monetary policy.  Consumer demand in India is showing signs of waning as
borrowing costs rise.  Sales at companies including  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the
nation’s biggest carmaker, fell 1.8 percent in September, the
third straight monthly decline, the  Society of Indian Automobile
Manufacturers  said Oct. 10.  India’s industrial production rose less than expected in
August, according to the Central Statistical Office. Output at
factories, utilities and mines increased 4.1 percent from a year
earlier, slower than the 4.7 percent median of 20 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “There is a concern that industrial production is
sagging,” Rangarajan said. “When inflation remains at a level
which is way above what is considered to be the acceptable
threshold level of inflation, then the monetary authority has a
major responsibility to contain inflation, and therefore that
becomes the primary focus of the monetary policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net .
INFINFY <INDEX> CN
INWHFOAY <INDEX> CN 