-- 
INTL FCStone to Increase London Staff in European Expansion

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-10-20T16:45:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/intl-fcstone-to-increase-london-staff-in-european-expansion-1-.html
INTL FCStone Inc. may more than
double its staff in  London , making it the second-biggest office
after  Chicago , to expand its risk-management business and
commodities trading in  Europe .  “We see a potential for a large expansion,” Peter J.
Nessler Jr., president of the company’s unit FCStone LLC, said
in an interview in London today. “Our goal here is to have
London as our footprint for the European Union” and other
areas, including Russia and Ukraine, he said.  The company, which employs about 900 people, may increase
its staff in London from about 50 to 125 in as little as 12
months, Nessler said. Expansion areas include London Metal
Exchange trading, clearing, execution, energy, and the grain and
soft commodities markets, he said. The company also plans to
open a six-person office in Shanghai and to increase staffing in
 Singapore , he said.  The expansion will give London the company’s second-biggest
presence after Chicago, which currently employs about 200
people,  Philip Smith , INTL FCStone’s chief executive officer for
Europe, said in a separate interview. FCStone has offices in 11
countries and more than 10,000 clients, according to the
company’s website.  INTL FCStone this year acquired Ambrian Commodities, the
LME brokerage unit of Ambrian Capital Plc and a so-called
category 4 member of the exchange, or associate broker. INTL
FCStone was approved as a category 2 member, or associate broker
clearing status, which would give it the right to trade metals
on the LMEselect electronic system and by telephone, the
exchange said Sept. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  