-- 
Janus Net Income Declines 16% as Investors Pull Money for Ninth Quarter

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-10-20T20:30:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/janus-net-income-declines-16-as-investors-pull-money-for-ninth-quarter.html
Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS) , owner of
the Janus, Perkins and Intech fund families, said third-quarter
profit fell 16 percent as investors withdrew money for the ninth
consecutive quarter.  Net income fell to $27.4 million, or 15 cents a share, from
$32.5 million, or 18 cents, a year earlier, the Denver-based
company said in a statement today. Analysts had expected
earnings of 18 cents a share, according to the average of 11
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Profit margins at the company will fall because of
performance-related cuts to fund-management fees if current
market conditions persist, Chief Executive Officer Richard M. Weil told analysts in a conference call today. Under Weil, Janus
has struggled to halt customer defections from the active stock
funds that dominate the firm’s products as equity markets have
declined this year and investors turn increasingly to passive
vehicles, especially exchange-traded funds.  “Performance fees are a meaningful consideration for us,”
Weil said. “We can offset some of that with cost-control
efforts, but it’s safe to say we cannot respond completely.”  The firm’s mutual funds charge fees that rise or fall in
connection to the funds’ performance over 12 to 36-month
periods. Fee cuts reduced revenue by $4.2 million in the third
quarter.  Investor Withdrawals  Janus rose 1.6 percent to close at $6.38 in  New York 
trading after climbing as much as 5.2 percent on news that
client redemptions slowed to the weakest pace in six quarters.
Janus has declined 51 percent this year, most among the 19-
company  Standard & Poor’s  index of asset managers and custody
banks.  Investors withdrew $2.4 billion in the quarter, excluding
money-market funds. Janus-branded equity and balanced funds had
redemptions of $3.2 billion, while fixed-income funds attracted
$2.1 billion.  “The flows were actually a bit better than expected,”
 Michael Kim , an analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in
New York, said in a telephone interview.  Market depreciation erased an additional $26.5 billion,
bringing assets under management to $141 billion, a decrease of
17 percent from the previous quarter. Assets declined 17 percent
from the previous quarter and 12 percent from a year ago.  Expenses Fall  The drop in assets and the fees they generate caused
revenue to decrease 2.8 percent from a year earlier to $237
million. Expenses fell 13 percent as compensation and benefits,
including incentive compensation, declined 9.7 percent.  The results include a loss of $20.6 million, or 6 cents a
share, on the firm’s internal investment vehicles and a benefit
of $2.5 million for the reversal of income tax reserves. The
internal investments represent  seed capital  in mutual funds and
prefunded mutual-fund awards, Chief Financial Officer Bruce Koepfgen said during the call.  The MSCI AC Index of global stocks has declined 10 percent
this year, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has fallen 3.4
percent. In the same period, investors have pulled about $100
billion from U.S.-registered equity funds, while depositing
about $323 billion with bond funds and $67.9 billion in all U.S.
ETFs, according to the  Investment Company Institute , a
Washington-based trade association.  Performance Declines  The performance of Janus’s funds has also deteriorated
relative to their benchmarks. Of Janus’s largest 20 stock and
balanced funds, representing $69.1 billion in assets, four beat
their benchmark index in the year ended Sept. 30, compared with
nine over three years and 15 over five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest money manager, said
yesterday that third-quarter profit climbed 8 percent to $595
million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  