-- 
Japan May Add $52 Billion in Aid for Companies Wrestling With Surging Yen

-- B y   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-10-21T01:07:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/japan-may-spend-26-billion-countering-yen-pain-document-shows.html
Japan is preparing to unveil plans
to spend an extra 4 trillion yen ($52 billion) to help its
exporters cope with a surging yen and spur  job creation ,
according to documents obtained by Bloomberg News.  The government will add 2 trillion yen to the 8 trillion
yen in foreign-exchange reserves being shifted to the state-run
 Japan Bank for International Cooperation  to aid exporters and
spur acquisitions overseas, one document shows. A further 2
trillion yen will be allocated to encourage investment in
domestic plants and to hire workers, according to another
document obtained from two government officials who declined to
be identified because the plan isn’t public.  A yen appreciation of almost 6 percent this year has
prompted the government to adopt a multi-pronged approach to
currency policy. While threatening intervention, Japanese
authorities have offered aid to companies hit by the yen’s move
and highlighted the lower cost of making overseas acquisitions.
 Japan  imports about 80 percent of its energy needs.  “The government realizes the need to alleviate the pain
from the continuing strong yen but the damage has already been
done,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist in Tokyo at
Norinchukin Research Institute Co. “They should consider ways
to stop the strong yen, and that would require more cooperation
from the  Bank of Japan .”  The yen traded at 76.86 against the dollar and 105.84 to
the euro at 9:51 a.m. in Tokyo. The currency rose to a post-
World War II high of 75.95 to the dollar on Aug. 19.  ‘Highest Priority’  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said his cabinet will approve
the strong yen measures today. Dealing with the rapid
appreciation of the yen is the “highest priority,” he said in
 Tokyo .  Former Japanese Finance Ministry official Eisuke Sakakibara
said this week at a conference in Tokyo that Japan’s currency
may gain past 100 per euro and strengthen to the low 70s versus
the greenback. While Japan may intervene to weaken the yen, such
efforts will only be successful if coordinated with other
nations, said Sakakibara, who became known as “Mr. Yen” during
his 1997-1999 tenure at the Ministry of Finance.  In addition to the increase in reserves, which was agreed
upon by the ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan yesterday, the
document also calls for the central bank to use “appropriate
and bold monetary policy management” of the yen in close
coordination with the government.  Factory Subsidies  Noda will allocate 1.4 trillion yen toward subsidies that
will help companies build factories and about 250 billion yen to
employ workers, according to the second document. The spending
will be part of a third supplementary budget plan that lawmakers
will deliberate in a parliamentary session starting today.  Japan is considering selling about 1 trillion yen of bonds
to fund rebuilding of areas stricken by the March earthquake,
according to two government officials who declined to be
identified because the plan isn’t public. The nation’s third-
extra budget will total 12 trillion yen,  Kyodo News  reported,
without saying where it obtained the information.  The Japanese government this week downgraded its economic
assessment for the first time in half a year, saying the pace of
the pick-up in demand is slowing. Factory output, overseas
shipments and retail sales for August all missed analysts’
forecasts.  “The worst case scenario” for Japan may be a double-dip
recession,  Thomas Byrne , a senior vice president for sovereign
risk at Moody’s Investors Service, said in an interview in Tokyo
yesterday. While a recession probably wouldn’t be as severe as
2009, “there are still a lot of unknowns,” he said.  Moody’s cut Japan’s debt rating by one step to Aa3 in
August, with a stable outlook. Byrne said the nation’s budget
for next year will be key for its  credit rating  and the country
needs “stability” and “continuity” in its policies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  