-- 
Japan Shipyards Said to Ask Lower Steel Prices, Warn of Cuts

-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 
2011-10-21T07:45:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/japan-shipyards-said-to-demand-lower-steel-prices-warn-of-cuts.html
Japanese shipbuilders will ask local
 steel mills  to cut prices for plate used to construct vessels or
be replaced by rivals from  South Korea  or China as the yen
strengthens, three people familiar with the matter said.  The Shipbuilders’ Association of Japan  Chairman Kazuaki Kama is scheduled to meet Eiji Hayashida, head of the  Japan Iron
and Steel Federation , as soon as next week to request lower
prices, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the information is not public. Japanese shipbuilders, the
world’s third-largest by output, pay local mills as much as 30
percent more for plates than do South Korean yards, one of the
people said.  The association, which counts  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
Ltd. (7011)  and  IHI Corp. (7013)  as members, is joining the nation’s carmakers
in reviewing costs and prices as a near-record high yen makes
Japanese products less competitive overseas.  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) 
and  JFE Holdings Inc. (5411) ,  Japan ’s biggest makers of the alloy,
stand to lose contracts to South Korea’s Posco and China’s
Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. unless they negotiate prices.  “Relations between suppliers and users in Japan are
getting more businesslike, unlike in the past when they had
closer ties,” said Naoki Iizuka, a senior economist at Mizuho
Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “Japanese industries are under
pressure to cut costs to compete globally.”  The Japanese currency, which rose to a postwar record in
August, has gained 11 percent from an April low this year. It
traded at 76.76 against the dollar as of 3:19 p.m. in Tokyo
today.  Toyota  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Asia ’s biggest carmaker, has told parts
makers it will buy more from emerging markets should domestic
mills fail to match overseas prices.  Carlos Ghosn , chief executive officer of Nissan Motor Co.,
said this month Japan faces a “hollowing out” of its
industries should the government fail to take steps to counter
the yen’s rise.  The Topix machinery index, which includes Mitsubishi Heavy
and IHI, has fallen 17 percent this year, compared with a 31
percent drop in the Topix iron and steel index, including Nippon
Steel and JFE.  IHI shares gained as much as 2.3 percent before closing 0.6
percent higher at 178 yen today. Nippon Steel shares declined
1.4 percent to 210 yen, while JFE Holdings fell 1.3 percent to
1,402 yen.  Price Talks  Shipbuilders individually hold price talks with suppliers.
The industry-wide request comes as domestic yards have been
unable to get cuts from their decades-long steel suppliers,
which offer lower prices to international customers, one of the
people said. Higher steel prices in Japan than Korea and  China 
erode local yards’ cost competitiveness, further crippling a
domestic industry struggling to win new orders, he said.  Steel accounts for about 40 percent of the cost of a ship,
according to the 19-member shipbuilding group, which also
includes closely held  Imabari Shipbuilding Co.   Japanese shipyards had a 12.1 percent share of the global
market by new orders in the first half, down 2.4 percentage
points from 2010, while South Korean yards boosted their share
by 23 percentage points to 56.4 percent, the Shipbuilders’
Association  said  on its website, citing data from IHS, formerly
Lloyd’s Register.  Materials Costs  Steelmakers in Japan, the world’s second-largest producer,
have been under pressure to pass on increased raw material costs
to customers to protect profit margins after  iron ore  and coking
coal prices soared, outpacing gains in the yen. Nippon Steel’s
gross margin fell to 12.24 percent in the June quarter from
13.62 percent a year earlier.  Yasumi Makimura, a spokesman for the shipbuilders
association, couldn’t be reached for comment. Nippon Steel
spokesman Hiroshi Nakashima declined to comment on individual
price talks. JFE asks its customers to share the costs when the
pace of gains in raw materials prices exceeds the level the
company can absorb through its own efforts, said a JFE spokesman
who asked not to be identified because of company policy.  Posco (005490) , South Korea’s largest mill, boosted its heavy-plate
capacity by 40 percent to 7 million tons a year in March,
overtaking JFE as the biggest producer of the alloy.  Hyundai
Steel Co. (004020)  said in July it expects to receive monthly orders for
at least 10,000 tons of plates from Japanese shipbuilders in the
second half of this year.  Last year, Japan imported 233,000 metric tons of plates,
equivalent to 2.6 percent of the alloy produced by Japanese
mills for local use, according to data from the Japan Iron and
Steel Federation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  