-- 
Japan to Open Hotlines to Allay Public Concerns Over Radiation

-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 
2011-10-20T04:13:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/japan-to-open-hotlines-to-allay-public-concerns-over-radiation.html
Japan’s government will issue
guidelines on testing for radiation and open  call centers  for
the public after more so-called hotspots were found in Tokyo and
other areas far from the wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant.  The guidelines will provide advice on using dosimeters to
improve the consistency of surveys, Hirotaka Oku, an official
handling the response to the Fukushima disaster at the science
ministry said by phone. The guidelines will be issued as early
as Oct. 22, he said.  Two more locations with radiation levels exceeding safety
limits were found this week in Tokyo, which is about 220
kilometers (137 miles) from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
station that was wrecked in the March earthquake and tsunami.
Local and central government bodies are expanding testing to
alleviate public concern over the discoveries.  The science ministry may increase monitoring by aircraft to
western  Japan , Oku said. Since April, the ministry has been
carrying out surveys in 22 prefectures in eastern Japan
including Tokyo. The number of prefectures hasn’t been decided.
Oku said. Japan has 47 prefectures.  In  Higashimurayama  in western Tokyo, officials removed soil
at an elementary school yesterday following a radiation reading
of 2.153 microsieverts per hour, according to Takehito Toma, an
official of the local education board.  The reading is equal to a dose of 11.32 millisieverts per
year, or more than 11 times the internationally recommended
safety level for the general public, according to a science
ministry formula.  Checking Parks  The local council in Higashimurayama, which surveyed 22
schools this week, plans to check parks and other public areas,
Toma said.  In Adachi ward in northeastern Tokyo, officials on Oct. 17
said a survey  found  an elementary school had readings as high as
3.99 microsieverts per hour.  On Oct. 14, the science ministry said radioactive
radium-226 was the source of a high radiation reading in Tokyo’s
Setagaya district, ruling out the possibility it may have come
from the Fukushima nuclear reactors.  Officials in Yokohama south of Tokyo said on the same day
they found radioactive strontium and cesium in two samples of
sediment.  In Saitama prefecture, north of Tokyo, 111 brands of tea
leaves tested for cesium were found to contain more than the
government safety standard of 500 becquerels per kilogram, the
local government said it a  statement  yesterday. One brand was
found to have 2,150 becquerels per kilogram.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in  Tokyo  at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  