-- 
Japan Fund to Handle Yen’s Advance to Rise to $130 Billion, Document Says

-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-10-20T07:46:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/japan-fund-to-handle-yen-s-advance-to-rise-to-130-billion-document-says.html
Japan  will increase a fund to help
companies cope with a surging yen by about 25 percent to 10
trillion yen ($130 billion), according to a document obtained
from a ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan official.  The government will increase from 8 trillion yen the
foreign-exchange reserves being shifted to the state-run  Japan
Bank for International Cooperation  to aid exporters and spur
acquisitions overseas. The cabinet is scheduled to agree on the
plan at a meeting tomorrow, according to the document.  The yen’s rise to a record high of 75.95 to the dollar on
Aug. 19 prompted the government to adopt a two-pronged approach
to currency policy. In addition to continuing to threaten
intervention, Japanese authorities have been highlighting the
benefits of the strong yen. Cheaper overseas acquisitions aid a
nation that imports about 80 percent of its energy needs.  The plan could be “very effective” in encouraging
overseas investments, said Minori Uchida, a senior analyst in
 Tokyo  at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. “Japan’s companies
are struggling under the most severe environment ever at the
moment.”  The yen strengthened 0.1 percent to 76.73 against the
dollar at 4:18 p.m. in Tokyo. The Japanese currency has risen
5.7 percent versus the dollar and 3.3 percent against the euro
year to date.  ‘Mr. Yen’  Former Japanese Finance Ministry official Eisuke Sakakibara
said yesterday at a conference in Tokyo that Japan’s currency
may gain past 100 per euro and strengthen to the low 70s versus
the greenback. Japan may intervene to weaken the yen, though
such efforts will only be successful if coordinated with other
nations, said Sakakibara, who became known as “Mr. Yen” during
his 1997-1999 tenure at the Ministry of Finance.  In addition to the increase in reserves, which was agreed
upon by the ruling DPJ today, the document also calls for the
 Bank of Japan  to use “appropriate and bold monetary policy
management” of the yen in close coordination with the
government.  The government will continue to fight to prevent what it
perceives to be the recent one-way rise in the yen, according to
the document. “Excessive fluctuations in the  currency market 
can have an adverse impact on the economy and financial markets,
so we will continue to monitor the situation closely and rule
nothing out, taking bold steps as needed,” the document said.  ‘Limited’ Impact  The steps outlined in the government’s plan are intended to
bolster the economy so it can expand even while the yen is
strong, said Koji Takeuchi, a senior economist at Mizuho
Research Institute in Tokyo. “Short-term impact on the yen will
be limited,” he said.  The document said the government will also establish five
special economic zones, where companies will get special
benefits and tax breaks to help them compete internationally, by
the end of the year. The cabinet tomorrow will also detail a
fund to help encourage the use of alternative-energy sources
such as solar energy and fuel cells, the document said.  Authorities will also increase loan guarantees for the
 Innovation Network Corporation of Japan , a venture created in
2009 to promote innovation. The INCJ will be able to invest up
to 1.8 trillion yen with support from the government and private
companies, up from 800 billion yen, aiding mergers and
acquisitions overseas.  “The Japanese economy is still suffering from deflation
and it’s important to prevent a vicious cycle of a strong yen
intensifying deflation and deflation strengthening the yen,”
according to the 13-page document. Japan should make the “most
of the merits” of the strong yen by pursuing oil and natural
gas as well as rare-earth assets overseas, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  