-- 
Jobs Threatened ‘Thermonuclear War’ on Google’s Android Software, AP Says

-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 
2011-10-21T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/jobs-regretted-not-getting-cancer-surgery-sooner-biographer-isaacson-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  co-founder Steve Jobs
said he was “willing to go thermonuclear war” on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android software, saying that its features amounted to “grand
theft,” the  Associated Press  reported.  Jobs, then Apple’s CEO, said he would “spend every penny
of Apple’s $40 billion in the bank, to right this wrong,”
according to the AP’s account of his biography, “Steve Jobs,”
by Walter Isaacson. Jobs died on Oct. 5.  Tension between the two companies escalated as Google used
the Android operating system to follow Apple into the burgeoning
market for smartphones. The rivalry forced  Eric Schmidt , then
CEO of Google, to resign from Apple’s board in 2009.  “I’m going to destroy Android, because it’s a stolen
product,” Jobs said in the book, according to the AP. “I’m
willing to go thermonuclear war on this.”  The authorized biography, due to be released on Oct. 24,
also sheds new light on Jobs’s combat against cancer. The 
executive had secret treatments for the disease even though he 
was telling people he was cured, Isaacson told  CBS News .  Jobs regretted the decision to initially refuse surgery for
pancreatic cancer, Isaacson told CBS News’s “60 Minutes,”
according to interview excerpts released yesterday.  “He said, ‘I didn’t want my body to be opened ... I didn’t
want to be violated in that way.’ He’s regretful about it,”
Isaacson  said . “I think that he kind of felt that if you ignore
something, if you don’t want something to exist, you can have
magical thinking ... We talked about this a lot.”  Putting Off Surgery  Jobs had a slow-growing form of pancreatic cancer and put
off surgery for nine months while he sought out spiritual and
dietary therapies against the advice of his wife, Isaacson said.
Once he had the surgery he told his employees about it while
playing down the seriousness of his condition, CBS said.  “I will not require any chemotherapy or radiation
treatments,” Jobs wrote in an Aug. 1, 2004, e-mail from his
hospital bed to employees of Cupertino, California-based Apple.
He said then that he was cured after having successful surgery
to remove a cancerous tumor from his pancreas.  In a commencement speech at  Stanford University  in June
2005, he said that he’d been diagnosed “about a year ago.” He
didn’t mention the nine-month delay.  Doctors told Jobs that his illness was “curable” through
an operation, Jobs said in that address.  “I had the surgery, and thankfully, I’m fine,” he said.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment.
The interview, conducted by correspondent Steve Kroft, will be
broadcast on Oct. 23. The network posted a 1 minute, 25 second-
long  excerpt . “Steve Jobs” was published by  Simon & Schuster ,
also owned by New York-based CBS.  Disclosure Timing  Jobs probably should have told shareholders that he had
cancer when it was first diagnosed, said  Charles Elson , director
of the John L. Weinberg Center for  Corporate Governance  at the
University of  Delaware . From a governance perspective, how he
decided to treat the illness was up to him, Elson said.  “He probably should have disclosed it, and everyone would
have assumed he would do everything he could to keep himself
alive,” said Elson. “The question is whether he misled people
because he himself was misled, or did he do it on purpose. I
tend to give wide latitude on these things. No one wants to
believe they’re dying.”  The biographer said that Jobs, who was adopted, met the man
who turned out to be his biological father without knowing who
he was.  Jobs’s Search  Jobs found his biological mother and sister, the novelist
Mona Simpson, according to Isaacson. Simpson then identified
their father, Abdulfattah “John” Jandali, who managed a coffee
shop.  Jandali told Simpson he wished she had met him earlier,
when he ran a bigger Mediterranean restaurant in Silicon Valley.
She hadn’t told him Jobs was his son.  “Everyone used to come there,” Jandali told Simpson,
according to Isaacson. “Even  Steve Jobs  used to eat here. Yeah,
he was a great tipper.”  “60 Minutes” will broadcast a voice recording of Isaacson
interviewing Jobs about his decision to ask Simpson to keep his
identity private.  “When I was looking for my biological mother, obviously,
you know, I was looking for my biological father at the same
time, and I learned a little bit about him and I didn’t like
what I learned,” Jobs said. “I asked her to not tell him that
we ever met ... not tell him anything about me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  