-- 
John Brown, the Antislavery Entrepreneur (Part 5): Tony Horwitz

-- B y   T o n y   H o r w i t z
-- 
2011-10-20T23:00:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/john-brown-the-antislavery-entrepreneur-part-5-tony-horwitz.html
John Brown hoped to launch his
“wool business,” as he called his attack on slavery, in 1858.
But his former drillmaster, Hugh Forbes, tried to blackmail his
backers by threatening to expose Brown’s plan to seize the
armory at Harpers Ferry and free slaves.  The Secret Six suspended funding, and Brown reluctantly
returned to  Kansas . In the final excerpt from his new  book ,
“Midnight Rising: John Brown and the Raid That Sparked the
Civil War,” Tony Horwitz tells how Brown regained the
confidence of his financiers and used a front business to
conceal his raid on Harpers Ferry,  Virginia :  In the summer of 1858, John Brown returned to Kansas with a
new alias and a long white beard to further disguise his
identity. The beard made him look older than his 58 years, as
did his deepening stoop. Decades of hardship were finally taking
their toll. Brown also lacked a clear purpose, other than to
dispel any rumors that his nemesis, Hugh Forbes, might spread
regarding an attack on Harpers Ferry.  But in late December, a new mission presented itself. A
 Missouri  slave named Jim Daniels slipped into Kansas, ostensibly
on a trip to sell brooms. Meeting one of Brown’s men near the
border, Daniels said he and other slaves were about to be sold
and desperately needed help.  Missouri Raid  Brown answered this plea by leading 18 guerrillas into
Missouri the next night. One party under his command raided the
farmhouse of Daniels’s master, liberated five slaves at gunpoint
and then freed five more slaves from a neighboring property. A
separate party burst into another home and freed a slave, but in
so doing shot her owner dead. The two groups of raiders also
carried off oxen, horses, food and other loot before crossing
back into Kansas.  This daring strike caused an immediate sensation, and when
the identity of its leader became known, rewards for Brown’s
capture were issued by both the governor of Missouri and
President James Buchanan. Undaunted, Brown kept himself in the
headlines by embarking on a midwinter trek, escorting the
liberated slaves north through Kansas, with pro-slavery posses
and federal marshals in pursuit. At one point, he eluded capture
by switching getaway wagons, and when an 80-man posse
intercepted his convoy, Brown charged with his 22 men, causing
his foes to fall back in panic.  Escaping Kansas, Brown led his caravan across  Iowa  and
secreted the liberated slaves onto a boxcar to  Chicago . From
there they were taken to  Detroit  and put aboard a ferry.
“BROWN’S RESCUED NEGROES LANDED IN CANADA,” read the March 18,
1859, headline in the New York Tribune. The long journey from
bondage to freedom had taken 82 days and covered 1,100 miles.
One of the liberated slaves gave birth en route. “The child has
been christened John Brown,” the Tribune reported.  Brown had redoubled his celebrity as a bold and seemingly
invincible abolitionist fighter. And he wasted no time using it
to restart his “wool business” in Virginia. Writing the Secret
Six that he was now ready to “set his mill in operation” in
the South, he asked for the money promised him, and noted of the
Missouri raid: “The entire success of our experiment ought (I
think) to convince every capitalist.”  It did. Gerrit Smith provided fresh funds for Brown’s bold
plan to attack and overturn the institution of slavery. Brown
raised more money in Boston and Concord. In June 1859, he
visited the Connecticut forge-master he’d long ago hired to
manufacture 1,000 spear-like pikes. “I have been unable, sir,
to fulfill my contract with you up to this time,” Brown told
Charles Blair. “Now I am able to do so.”  Making Weapons  Blair’s workmen were fully employed, and he’d been
disappointed by Brown two years earlier. He also couldn’t
understand why the abolitionist wanted him to finish work on
pikes intended for Kansas, where the fighting was petering out
and antislavery forces were emerging triumphant.  Brown replied that the pikes were worth nothing unfinished,
but that he “could dispose of them in some way” if fully
assembled. And so, upon receipt of the $450 still outstanding,
Blair wrote Brown that he would complete the job. “Wishing you
peace and prosperity,” he said in closing.  Accompanied by two sons, Brown traveled to  Pennsylvania .
Another accomplice, John Kagi, a Kansas fighter and Brown’s
second in command, was to rendezvous with the advance party at
its destination. “We leave here to day for Harpers Ferry,”
Brown wrote Kagi on June 30. “We shall be looking for cheap
lands near the Rail Road.” He signed himself with a new alias:
Isaac Smith.  Posing as a cattle farmer and mining entrepreneur, “Mr.
Smith” and his sons rented a secluded log house in the Maryland
hills, just across the Potomac River from Harpers Ferry. Having
established a forward post, he needed a staging area where he
could safely receive men and weapons.  So Kagi, under the alias “John Henrie,” found lodging in
Chambersburg, Pennsylvania, a rail hub just north of the Mason-
Dixon Line. In the weeks that followed, “Mr. Henrie” and “Mr.
Smith” exchanged frequent letters filled with opaque discussion
of “mining tools,” “freight” and “hands to work on the
job.”  This was code for guerrillas and guns, as well as the 1,000
pikes Brown planned to put in the hands of freed slaves. In
August, heavy boxes labeled “Hardware + Castings” began
arriving by rail at Chambersburg and were transported by wagon
to Brown’s  Maryland  hideout. “Hands,” including five black
fighters, one of them a fugitive slave, also made their way
quietly south.  Women as Lookouts  Brown’s teenage daughter and daughter-in-law joined the
band, to act as lookouts and camouflage. When neighbors or
passers-by approached the log house in Maryland, the teenagers
met them on the porch and played the part of “Smith” family
farm women, while the men huddled out of view in the attic.  As the summer wore on, however, Brown was once again
plagued by business problems. His eldest son, “ John Smith ,”
head of the Ohio branch, misunderstood his father’s “mining
schedule” and was slow forwarding material and manpower. High
freight bills, and the cost of sustaining people during the
delay, exhausted the money Brown had raised that spring in
expectation of quickly launching his campaign. “I begin to be
apprehensive of getting into a tight spot for want of a little
more funds,” he wrote in August, sounding very much like the
strapped businessman of old.  By early autumn, Brown had to borrow $40 from one of his
men. He still needed more fighters, but couldn’t afford to wait
any longer. “We have not $5 left, and the men must be given
work or they will find it themselves,” Kagi wrote on Oct. 10.
The Secret Six, weary of Brown’s repeated delays and demands for
money, were tapped out. They also dispatched a young Bostonian,
Francis Meriam, “to look into matters a little for the
stockholders,” wrote Franklin Sanborn, the lead organizer of
the Six.  Meriam had his own mission. Though sickly and one-eyed, he
was a militant abolitionist and eager to join Brown’s strike
force. He also carried $600 in gold coins he had inherited from
his wealthy family. Meriam spent half of it buying ammunition
and other supplies for the guerrilla band and gave the rest to
Brown, who badly needed it to fund the long campaign he
anticipated. On Oct. 13, Sanborn learned from Meriam that
“business operations” would at last commence.  To Harpers Ferry  Brown made final preparations for his attack and wrote his
impoverished family in upstate  New York . “Perhaps you can keep
your animals in good condition through the winter on potatoes
mostly, much cheaper than any other feed.” Then, on the night
of Oct. 16, Brown put on the cap he’d worn in Bleeding Kansas
and climbed aboard a horse-drawn wagon loaded with pikes, pine
torches and gunpowder. Eighteen men, armed with rifles and
revolvers, fell in behind.  “Come, boys!” Brown called out, leading the wagon away
from the log hideout and onto the road to Harpers Ferry. In a
few hours, they would seize the Virginia town and its massive
federal armory, begin freeing slaves and spark a bloody two-day
uprising that ended with Brown’s wounding and capture.  But the resilient abolitionist triumphed in defeat. His
raid shocked and divided the nation, and his courage and
eloquence in captivity made him a martyr and hero to antislavery
Northerners. Using business language to the end, Brown wrote his
wife from prison that he could “recover all the lost capital”
from his many failures by “only hanging a few moments by the
neck.”  He did so, on Dec. 2, 1859. Eighteen months later, the Civil
War began and Union troops marched into battle singing of John
Brown. And in 1863, President  Abraham Lincoln  issued the
Emancipation Proclamation, a measure he once termed “a John
Brown raid, on a gigantic scale.”  (Tony Horwitz is the author of “A Voyage Long and
Strange,” “Blue Latitudes,” “Confederates in the Attic” and
“Baghdad Without a Map.” This is the last in a five-part
series excerpted from his new book, “Midnight Rising: John
Brown and the Raid That Sparked the Civil War,” to be published
Oct. 25 by Henry Holt and Co. The opinions expressed are his
own. See  Part 1 ,  Part 2 ,  Part 3  and  Part 4 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Tony Horwitz at the website  www.tonyhorwitz.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  