-- 
John Brown, the Antislavery Entrepreneur (Part 4): Tony Horwitz

-- B y   T o n y   H o r w i t z
-- 
2011-10-20T03:23:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/john-brown-the-antislavery-entrepreneur-part-4-tony-horwitz.html
In the winter of 1857, John Brown
quartered the fighters he had recruited for his invasion of
Virginia at a sympathetic farm community in  Iowa . There, the men
drilled at what they called their “War College.”  Brown, out of money, headed east to raise more. Rather than
speak in public venues, as he had the year before, he traveled
under an alias, Nelson Hawkins, and sought discreet support from
a small group he believed willing to back his “secret
service.” In the fourth excerpt from his new  book , “Midnight
Rising: John Brown and the Raid That Sparked the Civil War,”
Tony Horwitz describes Brown’s courting of covert backers called
the Secret Six:  In late January 1858, Brown reached the Rochester, New York,
home of Frederick Douglass and stayed for three weeks,
feverishly plotting his attack on  Virginia  and sketching log
forts he planned to build in the mountains. He was on fire in
his correspondence as well, deploying a mix of flattery and
exhortation in letters seeking financial support.  “I now want to get for the perfecting of by far the most
important undertaking of my whole life from $500 to $800 within
the next sixty days,” he wrote Thomas Wentworth Higginson, a
militant minister who believed in breaking apart the Union to
destroy slavery. “Hope this is my last effort in the begging
line.”  The fiery Higginson replied: “I am always ready to invest
money in treason, but at present have none to invest.”
Higginson was also busy raising money for the Underground
Railroad.  Raising Money  “Rail Road business on a somewhat extended scale is the
identical object for which I am trying to get means,” Brown
shot back. He appealed to the minister’s considerable vanity as
well. “I have been told you are both a true man & a true
abolitionist,” he wrote, at the same time questioning whether
this was so of others in their circle.  The same day, Brown sent a separate letter to Theodore
Parker, one of the men named in his note to Higginson, and
played the identical game. “I have written to some of our
mutual friends,” Brown told Parker, “but none of them
understand my views so well as you do.” Brown added that he
wasn’t certain that these other friends were “deeply-dyed
Abolitionists,” as Parker most assuredly was.  These sly, stroking appeals had their intended effect. In
early 1858, Higginson, Parker and four other men agreed to
support Brown’s mission. Though the group would become known as
the Secret Six, it was composed of very public and prominent
figures. Four were Harvard graduates, the most distinguished of
them Parker, a radical  Boston  minister and eloquent orator who
famously declared that the arc of the moral universe “bends
towards justice.”  Higginson, a protege of Parker’s, was another Harvard
Divinity School graduate, as well as a writer who mentored Emily
Dickinson. But his literary and spiritual pursuits were paired
with a pugilistic temperament that resembled Brown’s. A boxing
and body-building enthusiast, he was intolerant of weakness and
impatient for muscular action. “I long to see you with adequate
funds in your hands, set free from timid advisers, & able to act
in your own way,” he wrote Brown.  Samuel Gridley Howe was another well-bred man of action.
The grandson of a participant in the Boston Tea Party, he
graduated from  Harvard Medical School  and was inspired by  Lord
Byron  to join  Greece ’s revolution against  Turkey  as a soldier-
surgeon. Returning to Boston, Howe became a pioneer in the care
of the blind, deaf and mentally disabled.  ‘Battle Hymn’  He was married to the poet Julia Ward Howe, who would
immortalize Brown’s spirit in the “Battle Hymn of the
Republic” -- and become so dispirited by her dashing,
unfaithful husband that she wrote, “Hope died as I was
led,/Unto my marriage bed.”  While Parker, Higginson and Howe brought ideological fire
to Brown’s cause, George Luther Stearns provided money and guns.
A self-made magnate, enriched by the manufacture of linseed oil
and lead pipe, he was the Kansas Committee chair who had paid to
send Brown 200 revolvers, while also pledging thousands of
additional dollars. On his doctor’s advice, Stearns wore an
extravagant beard to warm and protect his chest and throat from
bronchial problems.  In other respects, he was the most conventional and
business-like of the Secret Six -- in the words of Ralph Waldo Emerson, “no boaster or pretender, but a man for up-hill
work.”  The last two members of the Secret Six were already close
associates of Brown: his wealthy upstate  New York  patron, Gerrit
Smith, and the Concord teacher, Franklin Sanborn. It was to them,
at Smith’s estate, that Brown first unveiled the nature of his
“secret service.” Sanborn immediately scribbled a note to
Higginson, filled with the aliases and coded language that Brown
so often employed.  “Our friend Hawkins,” he wrote, is “entering largely
into the wool business, in which he has been more or less
engaged all his life. He now has a plan -- the result of many
years’ study.” On the back of the letter were Brown’s penciled
sketches of his mountain forts, labeled “Woollen machinery.”  A month later, in March 1858, the “secret committee” of
six was formed to raise money and other aid for Brown and his
men. But the alliance was fraught from the start. The Secret Six
shared Brown’s seething hatred of slavery and his scorn for
pacifist remedies. In other ways, they were poles apart.  The ‘Unseen Hand’  Brown’s old-school Calvinist faith differed greatly from
the unorthodox theology that Parker and Higginson espoused. A
man of very modest means, he resented begging in Brahmin parlors,
amid what he called the “wealth, luxury, and extravagance of
this ‘Heaven exalted’ people.” And he resisted his backers’
strategic advice, instead relying on his own judgment and the
“unseen Hand” of Providence.  This obstinacy became evident when Brown first shared his
“wool business” plans at Smith’s home. Sanborn and Smith
immediately raised concerns about the “manifest hopelessness”
of defeating slavery with a small guerrilla band. To which Brown
confidently replied: “If God be for us, who can be against
us?”  Sanborn and Smith mulled the matter during a walk through
the snowy fields of the upstate New York estate. They regarded
Brown’s mission as “dangerous, and even desperate,” Sanborn
wrote. Other members of the Secret Six also harbored doubts
about Brown’s chances of success. But it was clear that nothing
would deter him from going ahead. “We cannot give him up to die
alone; we must support him,” Smith declared.  This humane sentiment wasn’t the only motive for backing
Brown. The danger and desperation inherent in his plan appealed
to the Secret Six, as did his faith that he was God’s instrument.
Brown was no “milk-and-water” abolitionist, believing in talk
and moral uplift. He was a blunt and righteous weapon, a human
battering ram. Even if he failed, Brown might splinter the Slave
Power and bring on the great conflict necessary to vanquish it.  “He is of the stuff of which martyrs are made,” Samuel
Gridley Howe wrote a wealthy associate he hoped would give money
to Brown. “Under his natural and unaffected simplicity and
modesty there is an irresistible propensity to war upon
injustice and wrong.”  Gerrit Smith, least secret of the Six, was more explicit.
In March, as the conspirators formed their committee, he wrote
an abolitionist congressman: “the slave will be delivered by
the shedding of blood, and the signs are multiplying that his
deliverance is at hand.”  (Tony Horwitz is the author of “A Voyage Long and
Strange,” “Blue Latitudes,” “Confederates in the Attic” and
“Baghdad Without a Map.” This is the fourth in a five-part
series excerpted from his new book, “Midnight Rising: John
Brown and the Raid That Sparked the Civil War,” to be published
Oct. 25 by Henry Holt and Co. The opinions expressed are his
own. See  Part 1 ,  Part 2 ,  Part 3  and  Part 5 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Tony Horwitz at the website  www.tonyhorwitz.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  