-- 
JPMorgan, BofA Push Tally for Faulty Mortgages to $69 Billion

-- B y   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d
-- 
2011-10-20T17:48:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/jpmorgan-s-legal-bills-push-industry-tally-of-bad-mortgages-to-69-billion.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  disclosed $1.3
billion of new expenses tied to faulty mortgages and
foreclosures in its third quarter, pushing the bill for the five
biggest home lenders since 2007 to almost $69 billion.  JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, set aside $314
million for buying back defective loans and incurred $1 billion
in litigation costs caused mostly by mortgages, according to its
Oct. 13 report. That brought the New York-based bank’s total to
at least $17.6 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cost are mounting as borrowers, investors and states accuse
banks of sloppy lending and improper foreclosures. The total may
top $120 billion because mortgage buyers such as Fannie Mae are
becoming more aggressive, said  Paul Miller , the FBR Capital
Markets & Co. analyst, and claims are spreading to loans written
after banks said they reformed their practices.  “This is still far from over,” said  Neil Barofsky , former
inspector general for the U.S. Troubled Asset Relief Program.
“These numbers are very high to begin with, but this is now an
enormous overhang on the industry, and it’s well deserved.
Sooner or later the banks will pay the price for their
behavior.”  During the housing boom, banks issued mortgages and bundled
them into securities sold to private investors and government-
backed enterprises. They usually offered “representations and
warranties” in which lenders promised to buy back the mortgages
or cover losses if the loans turned out to be based on
inaccurate or missing data on criteria such as the borrower’s
income, the property’s value or whether it would be used as a
primary residence.  Bad Loans  Regulators said banks abandoned their own lending standards
to approve unjustified loans, leading to record defaults and
foreclosures. Investors who owned the mortgages began scouring
the loans for defects and lodging claims, while homeowners and
state attorneys general alleged that banks based seizures on
missing or false documents. Litigation costs for JPMorgan alone
have come to more than $5 billion.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , whose Countrywide unit was the
biggest lender during the housing bubble, had $1.18 billion in
third-quarter costs, according to its Oct. 18 report. That
included a $278 million provision for repurchases, $500 million
for litigation costs and $400 million for waivers and
assessments related to foreclosure problems. The total for the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based company since 2007 is now $40.3
billion, the most of any U.S. home lender.  Mortgage Servicing  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  added $390 million to its reserves for
repurchases in the third quarter, bringing its total to $5.48
billion. The San Francisco-based company, the biggest U.S. home
lender, also wrote down the value of its mortgage servicing
rights by $2.64 billion, in part because of expenses “including
delinquency and foreclosure costs.”  The writedown was excluded from Bloomberg’s tally because
the bank didn’t say how much of the decline was attributable to
extraordinary foreclosure costs, and Ancel Martinez, a Wells
Fargo spokesman, declined to elaborate.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  reported a $301 million provision for
repurchase demands, lifting the New York-based bank’s total to
$2.2 billion.  Thomas Kelly  at JPMorgan,  Shannon Bell  at Citigroup and
 Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment. Ally Financial Inc., previously known as GMAC Inc., has
not reported its third-quarter data yet. As of the second
quarter, the Detroit-based lender had been hit with $3.28
billion in costs. Ally is 74 percent owned by the U.S.
government after being rescued from collapse in 2008.  Fannie and Freddie  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , which were also bailed out, say
they’re getting tougher in demanding repurchases, even for loans
that have not gone into default. Some guarantees offered by
banks oblige them to give refunds merely if the underwriting was
defective, even if the borrower is still paying.  “ Fannie Mae  in particular seems to be getting more
aggressive,” FBR’s Miller said. Bank of America said it had
$11.67 billion in outstanding claims and JPMorgan had $3.09
billion.  While most claims have been concentrated in the years
before the housing bubble burst, JPMorgan and Bank of America
reported that demands for repurchases on loans issued after 2008
had about tripled from the year earlier. Previously, the banks
had said they expected few claims those mortgages were faulty
because they had tightened their lending procedures after the
credit crisis.  Newer Loans  Wells Fargo said it had received a rising number of
repurchase demands from Fannie Mae for mortgages from 2006 to
2008 and that “newer vintage demands continued to emerge.”  On top of that, banks have been in negotiations with the
attorneys general of the 50 states to resolve litigation for
foreclosure abuses and errors. A settlement may cost about $20
billion.  Bloomberg’s tally was compiled from regulatory filings,
company statements and financial presentations by the nation’s
five biggest mortgage lenders. The data cover provisions and
expenses attributable to repurchases, foreclosure errors and
abuses, payments to reimburse investors for lost value on faulty
mortgages, legal settlements and litigation expenses.  The compilation also includes writedowns of assets, such as
mortgage servicing rights, when the company attributed the loss
in value to problems in mortgage underwriting or foreclosures
and the costs of remedies.  The tally would be higher if it included settlements with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for misleading
investors in mortgage-related securities, such as collateralized
debt obligations.  The SEC announced Wednesday a $285 million settlement with
Citigroup. In July, 2010, the agency announced a $550 million
settlement with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan paid
$153.6 million in a similar case in June. SEC officials have
said more cases are likely.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Sterngold in  New York  at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  