-- 
Katy Perry’s Support Robyn Gets Personal Before Hollywood Show

-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 
2011-10-20T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/katy-perry-s-support-robyn-gets-personal-before-hollywood-show.html
“I don’t know how to write a song
that isn’t personal,” says Robyn. “You know, why do it then?”  The 32-year-old Swede, best known for her electropop track
“With Every Heartbeat,” is getting ready for her biggest show
after touring with Katy Perry. Tomorrow, she headlines the
Hollywood  Rose Bowl  with fellow Scandinavians Royksopp.  “Electronic music is very direct and efficient,” she says.
“All the different styles of music I listened to, like hip hop,
avant-garde pop like Laurie Anderson, or Technotronic. These
were all artists working in an electronic environment.”  Robyn, who has also supported Madonna, sits backstage, her
blonde hair crowning a black dress and green and orange jacket.
She talks in a precise Swedish accent.  “I have made acoustic versions of my singles,” she says,
“but they are usually with strings and end up having some
instrument powered by electricity anyway.”  “Do You Know (What It Takes)” reached number 7 in the
Billboard  Hot 100  chart in 1997. A slick piece of commercial
R’n’B mixed with a catchy Europop, it also featured the talents
of  Max Martin , who went on to produce Britney Spears’s “…Baby
One More Time” and the Backstreet Boys.  “We started writing together when I was 16,” says Robyn.
“He’s working in the very commercial space of the pop industry.
He is very rational about what needs to be done to make sure a
song gets on the radio.”  Robyn realized that the commercial end of the business
wasn’t for her. “I was in the hands of a  music industry  that had
one solution for all artists,” she says. In response, she set up
her own label,  Konichiwa Records .  Body Talk  “It’s about having my own bubble and my own structure where
I could be left alone,” Robyn says. Her approach paid off. Her
2010 release “Body Talk” mixed energetic dance beats with pop.
It featured “Dancing on My Own”, “Call Your Girlfriend” and
“Indestructible” and became an underground pop classic.  “Body Talk” was originally released as three separate mini-
albums. This wasn’t a carefully planned strategy. Robyn simply
found that the usual industry cycle of intensively recording an
album and then spending two years solidly touring stymied her
passion to write songs and perform live.  A similarly unplanned approach led to “With Every
Heartbeat,” a song Robyn wrote with producer  Andreas Kleerup ,
reaching the top of the charts. The song, a slice of electronic
pop gorgeousness, wasn’t originally released as a single.  “People just started requesting it, playing it on the radio
and it grew from there,” says Robyn.  It remains the song she is most proud of. “Songs are
exercises in digging into your unconsciousness,” she says. “It
was inspired by Andreas’s relationship. You can be inspired by
other people’s lives, it’s really about yourself.”  Information:  http://www.robyn.com ,
 http://www.hollywoodbowl.com/   (Robert Heller is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Robert Heller  in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 