-- 
Kinetic Concepts Sets Pricing on $2.5 Billion Apax LBO Loan

-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 
2011-10-20T20:10:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/kinetic-concepts-said-to-set-pricing-on-2-5-billion-lbo-loan.html
Kinetic Concepts Inc. (KCI) , a wound-care
company, set the  interest rate  it will pay on $2.5 billion of
loans it’s seeking to back its buyout by Apax Partners Inc.,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  A $1.63 billion term loan B maturing in 6 1/2 years will
pay 5.75 percentage points more than the London interbank
offered rate, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the terms are private.  Libor, a rate banks charge to lend to each other, will have
a 1.25 percent floor. The portion will be sold at 96.5 cents on
the dollar, compared with 95.5 cents to 96 cents initially
proposed, said the person. The debt began trading at 99.5 cents
on the dollar, according to information provider Markit Ltd.  The $250 million euro denominated  term loan  B due in 6 1/2
years will pay 5.75 percentage points more than Euribor, with a
1.25 percent floor. The San Antonio-based company will sell the
loan at 95.5 cents on the dollar.  Kinetic won’t be able to refinance the term loan B portion
during the first year, then can do so at 101 cents on the dollar
in the second year, the person said. Lenders were originally
offered soft-call protection of 102 cents and 101 cents on the
debt, meaning the company would have had to pay 2 cents more
than face value to refinance the slice during the first year and
1 cent during the second year.  Term Loan C  A $325 million term loan C piece maturing in 5 years will
pay 5.25 percentage points more than Libor. The debt will have a
1.25 Libor floor and will be issued at 97 cents on the dollar,
the person said.  Kinetic decided to seek the term loan C because of the
approaching end of the reinvestment periods for older
collateralized loan obligations, the person said. Those CLOs
would need to wind down after their reinvestment periods are
over. CLOs pool high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into
securities of varying risk and return.  The term C portion will give lenders a one-year soft-call
protection of 101 cents, meaning Kinetic would have to pay 1
cent more than face value to refinance the debt during the first
year, the person said.  The company is also seeking a $200 million revolving line
of credit due in five years. The revolver will pay 5.75
percentage points more than Libor and will be tied to a
leverage-leverage based grid, according to the person.  Arranging Banks  Bank of America Corp., Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse Group
AG and Royal Bank of Canada arranged the deal for Kinetic.  Kevin Belgrade, a spokesman for  Kinetic Concepts , declined
to comment.  Kinetic  agreed  to be taken private by Apax, the Canada
Pension Plan Investment Board and the Public Sector Pension
Investment Board for $68.50 a share.  In a revolving credit facility, the money can be borrowed
again once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t. A term loan B
is mainly bought by non-bank lenders such as collateralized loan
obligations, bank-loan mutual funds and  hedge funds .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  