-- 
Klepierre Third-Quarter Revenue Advances on Outlet Openings

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-10-20T16:33:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/klepierre-third-quarter-revenue-advances-on-outlet-openings.html
Klepierre (LI)  SA,  Europe ’s second-
largest mall owner, said revenue rose 4.9 percent in the third
quarter as it opened two centers and negotiated higher rents
on new leases and renewals.  Revenue increased to 256.8 million euros ($351 million)
from 244.7 million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company
said today in a statement. Excluding the effect of acquisitions,
disposals, extensions and new outlets, rents rose 2 percent.  The opening of the Millenaire mall on the edge of Paris and
Aqua Portimao in  Portugal  boosted rental income. Klepierre
signed 1,453 leases in the first nine months to add 12.9 million
euros of rental income. The gains offset the impact of property
disposals and concessions to retain or attract tenants in
Greece, Hungary and Spain, where retailers face weaker sales.  Rental income in the last quarter will “increase
slightly” from the third quarter, in line with the “slight
growth” Klepierre had predicted in rents for the year as a
whole, according to the statement.  Klepierre reiterated that it expects net current  cash flow 
to be little changed this year, while predicting that inflation
adjustments and more center openings would lift rental income
next year.  Revenue for the first nine months rose 4.3 percent to 767.4
million euros.  The company has raised about 88.3 million euros from the
sale of properties, mostly offices, as it uses the proceeds to
reduce debt and finance a 3.6 billion-euro pipeline of
development projects through 2015. Klepierre expects to raise
200 million euros from disposals this year.  The report was released after the close of Paris trading.
Klepierre fell 4.1 percent, to 21.42 euros, valuing the company
at 4.06 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 