-- 
Koor Soars as ChemChina Completes Makhteshim Purchase

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-10-20T08:32:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/koor-soars-as-chemchina-completes-makhteshim-purchase-correct-.html
(Corrects details of acquisition in second paragraph in
story first published on Oct. 17.)  Shares of  Koor Industries Ltd. (KOR) , a
Tel Aviv-based holding company, rose to a two-month high today
after it completed its sale of a stake in  Makhteshim-Agan
Industries Ltd. (MAIN) , the world’s largest maker of agrochemicals, to
 China  National Chemical Corp.  ChemChina agreed on Dec. 28 to buy a 60 percent stake in
Makhteshim that included part of Koor’s holding in an accord
that valued the agrochemical company at $2.4 billion. Koor,
which retained about 40 percent of Lod, Israel-based Makhteshim,
said it will report a fourth-quarter gain of as much as 674
million shekels ($185 million).  The agreement gives Makhteshim access to low-cost
production in China, while maintaining licenses and distribution
agreements in  Europe , said Amir Foster at Tel Aviv-based DS
Securities & Investments.  “This could be a cash cow for Koor going forward,” Foster
said.  Shares of Koor, which also has interests in
telecommunications, rose 7 percent to 45.51 shekels, their
highest since Aug. 4. Koor lost 47 percent in the past six
months compared with a 15 percent drop of the benchmark TA-25
index as the holding company posted losses connected to the
decline in value of its holding in Credit Suisse Group AG,
 Switzerland ’s second-largest lender.  Discount Investment Corp., that controls Koor, also rose to
a two-month high, gaining 8.8 percent to 39.20 shekels.  Increase Trade  Israel is looking to Asia to increase trade as the U.S. and
European Union struggle to recover from the global economic
slowdown. “This is a big achievement for the Israeli economy,”
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said in a text message.  Koor plans to pay Makhteshim shareholders a $45 million
aggregate dividend as part of a settlement related to the sale,
it said in a statement to the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. The
company gave Dec. 2 as the estimated payment date.  “This is one of those true win-win situations,” said
Gilad Alper, analyst at Excellence Nessuah Investment House in
 Ramat Gan , Israel. “From a national interest this is fantastic
news. Israel could benefit from China deepening its involvement
in our economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  