-- 
Korean Won Retreats From One-Month High as Europe Divided Over Debt Crisis

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 
2011-10-20T06:22:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/korean-won-retreats-from-one-month-high-as-europe-divided-over-debt-crisis.html
South Korea ’s won dropped the most
in more than two weeks as divisions among European leaders over
how to resolve the region’s sovereign-debt crisis bolstered
demand for dollars and eroded appetite for emerging-market
assets. Government bonds advanced.  French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said yesterday that
Europe’s temporary bailout fund would be best enhanced with help
from the  European Central Bank , a position the ECB and German
government continue to oppose. German Chancellor Angela Merkel
said yesterday the European Union summit on Oct. 23 will not be
“the end point” of the debt crisis that requires more than “a
magic wand” to solve.  “Demand for dollar increased after some investors saw
yesterday’s gains in won as excessive, and also as optimism for
 Europe ’s debt crisis subsided,” said Kim Seong Soo, a Seoul-
based currency dealer with Kyongnam Bank. “Investors will be
adopting a cautious stance ahead of the European summit this
week.”  The won fell 1.1 percent, the most since Oct. 3, to
1,145.18 per dollar in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency touched 1,128.52 yesterday, the
strongest level since Sept. 19 as South Korea and Japan
announced they will expand a currency-swap accord to $70
billion.  Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said in parliament today that
the nation intervenes in the currency market only when needed to
conduct smoothing operations.  The government’s benchmark three-year bonds advanced for a
third day. The yield on the 3.5 percent notes due June 2014 fell
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.43 percent,
Korea Exchange Inc. prices show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 