-- 
Kuwait Holds Biggest Protest Demanding Premier’s Ouster

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 
2011-10-20T10:05:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/kuwait-holds-biggest-protest-demanding-premier-s-ouster-1-.html
Kuwait ’s opposition held its largest
protest so far, calling for the ouster of Prime Minister Sheikh Nasser Al-Mohammed Al-Sabah and a boycott of lawmakers who
allegedly received millions of dinars in bribes.  At least 10,000 Kuwaitis gathered in front of parliament
late yesterday to call for a change in government and
dissolution of the National Assembly followed by fresh
elections. Opposition lawmaker Faisal al-Muslim displayed what
he said were checks issued by the prime minister to two members
of parliament.  “This situation has destroyed Kuwait and killed future
aspirations for its children,” al-Muslim told the crowd. “The
transfer of millions of dinars into accounts is an assertion of
the corrupt approaches in the country, and it is Kuwait that is
paying the price.”  Naif al-Riqaibi, the undersecretary for local affairs in
the office of the prime minister, denied the allegations.
“Lawmaker Faisal al-Muslim’s claims that the prime minister has
deposited two checks for lawmakers in the National Assembly is
not true and goes against reality,” he said, according to a
report by state news agency  KUNA  today.  Kuwait’s opposition has threatened to question senior
Cabinet members including the prime minister over the alleged
corruption scandal. The allegations have given new impetus to
protests calling for the premier to quit, which began in March.
Yesterday’s rally came a day after the government announced that
Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed Sabah Al-Sabah’s resignation
had been accepted. Sheikh Mohammed couldn’t be reached for
comment.  Kuwait, OPEC’s fifth-biggest producer, created the Gulf’s
first elected parliament half a century ago. Sheikh Nasser has
survived three confidence votes in parliament since his
appointment in 2006 and been forced to form seven separate
administrations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net ;
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  