-- 
NBA Talks With Players to Continue Today With Federal Mediator

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-10-20T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/nba-talks-with-players-to-continue-today-with-federal-mediator.html
The  National Basketball
Association ’s federally mediated labor negotiations with its
players will resume today following the league’s Board of
Governors meeting.  Full negotiating committees for the league and the
National Basketball Players Association met yesterday for about
8 1/2 hours at a New York hotel. A day earlier, the first
session supervised by federal mediator George Cohen lasted 16
hours and ended at 2 a.m.  Both sides have agreed to abide by a gag order imposed by
Cohen, director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation
Service.  “Everyone is extremely focused on the core issues, the
difficult issues that confront them,” Cohen said at a news
conference, declining to take questions.  NBA Commissioner  David Stern  and Boston Celtics owner Wyc Grousbeck left yesterday’s talks about an hour early to begin a
planning committee session that had been moved from earlier in
the day,  Mike Bass , a spokesman for the league, told reporters.
The planning committee is responsible for reshaping the
league’s revenue-sharing policy.  The 16-hour mediated session two days ago was more than
twice as long as any previous meeting between the sides since
the NBA locked players out 112 days ago after they were unable
to agree on a new labor deal.  The talks are taking place as some of the league’s All-
Stars are working out details of a potential two-week, six-game
international  exhibition tour  that would pay them as much as $1
million per player, ESPN reported.  All-Star Series  The series, with visits to Puerto Rico,  London , Macau and
Australia between Oct. 30 and Nov. 9, is expected to include
 Kobe Bryant ,  LeBron James ,  Dwyane Wade , Derrick Rose,  Carmelo Anthony , Chris Paul, Rajon Rondo, Blake Griffin, Russell Westbrook, Carlos Boozer, Paul Pierce and Kevin Love, while
Kevin Durant and  Kevin Garnett  also are considering
participating, ESPN reported, citing unidentified people
familiar with the discussions.  It has been nine days since Stern canceled the first two
weeks of the season, which was scheduled to begin Nov. 1. The
only other time NBA games were canceled was during the 1998-99
season, when the sides reached a deal in early January 1999 and
a 50-game season began in early February.  The two sides still are discussing how to split money from
a league that had about $4.3 billion in revenue last season, as
well as what type of salary-cap system the league will operate
under. Stern has said the league’s 30 teams collectively lost
at least $300 million in each of the last three seasons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  