-- 
NBA Meetings With Players Union Break Down, No More Discussions Planned

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-10-21T04:41:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/nba-meetings-with-players-union-break-down-no-more-discussions-planned.html
Three days of federally mediated
labor talks between the  National Basketball Association  and its
players union ended with no agreement, increased acrimony, no
further talks planned and more lost games a virtual certainty.  The league and the National Basketball Players Association
met for about five hours yesterday after the owners concluded
Board of Governors meetings earlier in the day. NBA
Commissioner  David Stern  did not attend the talks after leaving
the owners’ meetings with the flu.  George Cohen, director of the  Federal Mediation and
Conciliation Service  who oversaw the talks, said afterward that
the two sides “have not achieved an overall agreement, nor
have they been able to resolve the strongly held, competing
positions that separated them on core issues.”  “No useful purpose would be served by requesting the
parties to continue the mediation process at this time,” Cohen
said in a statement.  The mediation lasted more than 30 hours over three days,
and yesterday marked the 45th time the NBA has met with the
union in the past 2 1/2 years to discuss a new labor deal,
according to NBA Deputy Commissioner Adam Silver. The NBA
locked the players out 113 days ago when the last deal expired.  Cohen said he would be willing to lead future mediation
and both sides were complimentary of his efforts despite the
failed results.  The sides are 2 1/2 percent apart on how to split
basketball-related income from a league that took in $4.3
billion last season, Silver said after the talks broke off.
That amounts to about $100 million per season.  Both Proposed ‘Bands’  Coming off a campaign in which Stern said the league lost
about $300 million, the players -- who made 57 percent of
basketball-related income in the last deal -- are willing to
take less. The owners are now offering 50 percent, while the
players are asking for 52.5 percent, according to Silver. Both
sides also proposed “bands” that would shift the percentage
depending upon the league’s financial performance.  “They made it clear that if our position was that we were
unwilling to move beyond 50 percent, there was nothing else to
talk about, and that’s when the discussions broke off,” Silver
said.  “You guys were lied to earlier, it’s that simple,”
responded union President  Derek Fisher  at a separate news
conference that followed.  The talks deteriorated shortly after the owners returned
from the Board of Governors meetings, as Portland Trail Blazers
owner Paul Allen, the billionaire co-founder of Microsoft Inc.
who is not a member of the owners’ labor-relations committee,
attended the mediation, according to union attorney  Jeffrey Kessler .  Small-Market Teams  Allen’s Trail Blazers are one of many small-market teams,
and the union has said it’s these teams’ owners who are the
most steadfast in not acquiescing.  “We were told Paul Allen was here to express the views of
the other members of the Board of Governors, and that view was,
‘Our way or the highway,’” Kessler told reporters. “We were
shocked.”  With Stern absent, Allen’s presence was intended to show
that the owners had no intention of agreeing to anything above
a 50-50 split of basketball-related income, Kessler said.  “ Paul Allen  said almost nothing,” he said. “We were
told what Paul Allen’s views were. He was a silent but
prominent presence in the room.”  With the first two weeks of the regular season --
originally scheduled to start Nov. 1 -- already wiped out,
Silver said he would consult with Stern and the other owners
before announcing the cancellation of more contests. Stern
suggested in interviews leading into this week that more games
were endangered if a deal wasn’t reached.  ‘Very Tough Day’  “It was a disappointing last 30 hours,” said Peter Holt,
the labor-relations committee chairman who owns the  San Antonio
Spurs . “We’re sitting here with no meetings scheduled.
Hopefully we can get back to the table. Certainly a tough day,
a very tough day.”  Billy Hunter , executive director of the union, said the
league gave players a “take it or leave it” demand to accept
a 50-50 split after the union already agreed to give back $1.1
billion over six years as compared to the last deal, and
concessions regarding the system the teams play under.  “We’ve made concession after concession after concession,
and it’s just not enough,” Hunter said. “We’ve fought too
long and we’ve made too many sacrifices to get where we are.”  For Silver, the conclusion was a surprising one.  Toward Fifth Month  “I was, for whatever reason, a little bit more optimistic
going into today than I had been in earlier sessions,” Silver
said. “Obviously I was disappointed and sort of maybe
overestimated where it turns out we were.”  Stern has said the league lost almost $200 million from
the canceled preseason, and that each two weeks of wiped out
games mean hundreds of millions more in losses. This could
force each side to dig in deeper in a labor fight now headed
toward its fifth month.  “It could be tougher than it has been in the past to get
back together,” Holt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  