-- 
NBA Labor Negotiations to Proceed as Commissioner Stern Sent Home With Flu

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-10-20T18:38:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/nba-labor-negotiations-to-proceed-as-commissioner-stern-sent-home-with-flu.html
National Basketball Association
Commissioner  David Stern  was sent home with the flu from owners’
meetings today and likely won’t attend a third straight day of
federally mediated labor negotiations this afternoon.  “He was sent home this morning by his doctor,” Deputy
Commissioner Adam Silver said at a news conference. “He’s still
actively working at home.”  Today marks the 45th negotiating session between the NBA
and the  National Basketball Players Association  since they began
discussing a new collective bargaining agreement two years ago,
Silver said. With the league Board of Governors meeting
concluded, they’ll return to the bargaining table this afternoon
at a different Manhattan hotel. The two sides negotiated for
more than 24 hours in about a 32-hour period over the past three
days.  “His symptoms were not helped by the fact that we had
several late nights this week,” Silver said of the 69-year-old
commissioner. “I think he just got a little worn down.”  Silver, the NBA’s lead negotiator, declined to address
details relating to the labor talks because both sides have
agreed to a gag order imposed by federal mediator George Cohen.  The topics discussed during the Board of Governors meeting
included revenue sharing; presentations by New Jersey Nets owner
 Mikhail Prokhorov  on the status of the new Barclays Center and
New York Knicks owner Jim Dolan on the renovation of Madison
Square Garden; and an update on the Sacramento Kings’ arena
project.  Glen Taylor, the owner of the  Minnesota Timberwolves , was
re-elected as chairman of the Board of Governors, and the
Philadelphia 76ers’ new owner,  Joshua Harris , was introduced to
the board.  Revenue Sharing  Silver said that the league’s revenue-sharing plan can’t be
completed until the collective bargaining agreement is finished
because the final economic split between the owners and players
affects it.  “We’re looking to roughly triple the amount of money that
we distribute among our teams,” Silver said. “We’re looking at
a number roughly around $150 million.”  The talks will continue today under the direction of Cohen,
the director of the  Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service .  “He brings a certain wisdom to the process and my sense is
that both sides have enormous respect for him,” Silver said.
“He’s caused all of us to take a fresh look at some of our
positions.”  Offer Reported  While neither side has spoken publicly this week about the
negotiations, the owners did formally propose a 50-50 split of
basketball-related income with the players during the mediation,
the New York Times reported, citing multiple unidentified people
involved in the talks. The proposal would give the players --who
made 57 percent in the previous deal -- as much as 51 percent or
as little as 49 percent depending on league revenue, the
newspaper said. Union Executive Director  Billy Hunter  said
players were offering 53 percent in their most recent proposal.  The NBA had about $4.3 billion in revenue last season and
Stern has said the league’s 30 teams lost $300 million during
that period.  It’s been 112 days since the players were locked out on
July 1. The first two weeks of the season, scheduled to start
Nov. 1, already have been canceled and Stern suggested in recent
interviews that more games were in jeopardy if a deal wasn’t
reached this week.  “I don’t think it required these sessions or this mediator
to create a sense of urgency among both the owners and the
players,” Silver said. “Owners want to play. At the same time,
we want to ensure that we accomplish what we set out to
accomplish.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 