-- 
Nestle Increases Sales Forecast on Higher Coffee Prices, Revenue in China

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-10-20T15:53:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/nestle-expects-to-outperform-sales-target-in-2011-amid-higher-prices.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food
company, raised its 2011 sales forecast after nine-month revenue
rose at the fastest pace in three years, helped by higher prices
for Nescafe soluble coffee and increased volume in  Asia .  Revenue on a comparable basis will “slightly” beat a
long-term target of 5 percent to 6 percent this year, the Vevey,
Switzerland-based KitKat maker said today. Nestle previously
said it expected to reach the upper end of the range. Nine-month
sales on the same basis increased 7.3 percent, beating the 7.2
percent average estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Nestle is passing on rising raw-material costs to consumers
in the form of higher prices, while adding new products like
Maggi Juicy Roasting cooking aids. Still, the maker of Gerber
baby food said consumer sentiment in North America and  Europe 
has worsened and stopped short of repeating its confidence in
expanding margins this year amid increased competition.  “Nestle is finally feeling the pinch of deteriorating
consumer sentiment in the U.S.,” said Marco Gulpers, an analyst
at ING Financial Markets.  Nestle said today it’s “striving” to expand margins at
constant currency rates this year, after saying in August that
it was “confident” of doing so. The company is “not talking
about a miss on margin,” Roddy Child-Villiers, head of  investor
relations , said on a webcast. He said competition has increased.  Beating Goal Again  This would be the second year in a row Nestle beats its
long-term sales target. Comparable revenue rose 6.2 percent in
2010.  Nestle still expects raw-material expenses to jump as much
as 3 billion Swiss francs ($3.3 billion) this year and declined
to provide guidance on input costs for 2012.  Commodity prices will probably remain high, though price
increases may be more “normal” going forward, Chief Executive
Officer  Paul Bulcke  said.  The shares fell 0.5 percent to 51.30 Swiss francs at the
close in Zurich. The stock has lost 6.3 percent this year.  Higher pricing added 3.2 percentage points to nine-month
sales growth, while volume rose 4.1 percent, the company said.  “It would take a sharp and totally unexpected slowdown in
the fourth quarter for Nestle not to more than slightly over-
deliver” on its revenue objective,  Andrew Wood , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein, wrote in a note.  ‘Best in Class’  Sales of Nescafe Dolce Gusto coffee boosted growth in
Europe, where comparable revenue climbed 3.8 percent. Yogurt
maker Danone had revenue growth in Europe of 0.1 percent on a
comparable basis during the third quarter.  “What Nestle does, and what none of the other food
companies do, is grow strongly in western Europe,” said Jon Cox, head of Swiss research at Kepler Capital Markets. “That’s
why they’re the best in their class.”  While revenue at Nestle’s Americas unit increased 5.6
percent during the nine months, boosted by Lean Cuisine snacks
and DiGiorno Pizza Combos, volume in  North America  shrank in the
third quarter. The Jenny Craig weight-loss unit faced
“intense” competition in the U.S., Nestle said.  Sales at Nestle’s Asia, Oceania and Africa unit increased
about 12 percent in the nine months.  Nestle repeated that it’s not planning another share
buyback at the moment. The decision in August not to start a
program sparked speculation that Nestle might be saving cash for
acquisitions. The company is “focused” on investing in its own
business, it said today, as it also seeks bolt-on purchases.  M&A Budget  Nestle expects to spend between 4.5 billion francs and 5
billion francs this year on acquisitions and a similar amount on
capital expenditure, according to Chief Financial Officer Jim Singh.  Group revenue fell to 60.9 billion francs from 70.4 billion
francs a year earlier, hurt by a strengthening of  Switzerland ’s
currency and the sale of a stake in eye-care company Alcon Inc.  The dollar was 23 percent lower against the franc and the
euro was worth 12 percent less during the period, reducing the
value of sales from outside Switzerland when translated into
Nestle’s home currency.  In addition to total revenue, Nestle reports so-called
organic sales on a basis that excludes acquisitions, divestments
and currency swings to help comparisons.  Organic sales at Nestle Waters increased 4.7 percent,
driven by “double-digit” growth in emerging markets. The
company owns the world’s largest bottled-water brand, Pure Life.  Revenue from the nutrition unit, which makes Nan baby food
and Jenny Craig weight-loss products, increased 7.6 percent on
higher demand for  baby food .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  