-- 
New York Man Admits to Running $6 Million Boiler-Room Scheme

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-10-20T20:22:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/new-york-man-admits-to-running-6-million-boiler-room-scheme-1-.html
A New York man pleaded guilty to
running a boiler-room operation in  Brooklyn  that swindled
customers out of more than $6 million, which the con men spent
on strip clubs, tanning salons, pharmaceuticals and car washes,
prosecutors said.  Alan Labiner, also known as Alan Labineri and David Alan
Labiner, entered his plea today before U.S. District Judge Brian M. Cogan in Brooklyn. He previously pleaded not guilty.  Labiner, 52, and Ahmed Awan, 38, controlled a supposed
public-relations firm that marketed fraudulent securities in
nonpublic companies over the phone, according to the indictment.
Two other men who worked for them, Khurram Tanwir and
Christopher Posteraro, were also charged in the case. Tanwir,
34, pleaded guilty in March. Awan and Posteraro, 42, are
scheduled to change their not-guilty pleas next week.  “The offering memoranda contained numerous misstatements
about the entities and their business,” Labiner told Cogan.  His lawyer,  Michael Rosen , declined to comment after the
hearing.  Labiner pleaded guilty to two counts, mail fraud and
conspiracy to commit securities, mail and wire fraud. He faces a
maximum prison sentence of 25 years.  Securities Laws  Labiner, Tanwir and Awan, former brokers who had their
licenses revoked, faced criminal-contempt charges for violating
the judgment in a 2004 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
case that barred them from breaking securities laws. They were
arrested in September 2009. Posteraro was arrested in December
2009.  One of the counts Tanwir pleaded to was criminal contempt.  In 2004, the SEC accused them of engaging in frauds such as
making false statements about imminent initial public offerings
or big increases in stock prices. The  SEC said  that Labiner and
Tanwir had been allegedly conducting fraudulent stock offerings
together since at least 1999.  In December 2008, Labiner was ordered to disgorge $2.75
million and pay a civil penalty of $2.03 million. Tanwir was
ordered to disgorge $4.66 million and pay a fine of $3.43
million.  The men are accused in the boiler-room case of defrauding
at least 50 investors, according to a 2009 statement from the
U.S. Attorney’s Office in Brooklyn.  Four Schemes  They allegedly sold fraudulent securities in four schemes:
a purported real-estate investment trust that claimed to invest
in Manhattan properties, a business that claimed to invest in
credit cards with high  interest rates , a company that allegedly
sold boxing equipment and clothes, and an enterprise that
claimed to manage popular musicians, models and actors.  Victims of the fraud included senior citizens who lost
individual retirement account funds, prosecutors said. The men
“cold-called” the prospective investors from a site in
Brooklyn and told them they had missed a profitable investment
opportunity offered in a previous telephone call, which hadn’t
been made, according to prosecutors.  The alleged public-relations firm at the center of the
scheme was called Locke, Landis & Harriman Inc. and later
Landis, Harriman & White Inc., according to the indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Labiner, 09-cv-807, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 