-- 
New York Police to Pay $200 Per Handgun to Help Clear Weapons From Streets

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-10-20T17:58:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/new-york-police-to-give-200-bank-cards-in-program-to-get-guns-off-streets.html
Manhattan  District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. and the New York Police Department will give $200 bank
cards to anyone turning in a working handgun as part of a three-
year-old program to get illegal guns off New York streets.  The buyback, slated to run from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Oct.
22, will be preceded by a vigil the night before to raise
awareness of the growing number of violent incidents among young
people caused by guns, according to a statement today from
Vance’s office. This year, of the 249 people indicted for
possessing loaded guns, 21 percent were 18 or younger when
arrested, Vance’s office said.  “Senseless deaths, like the fatal shooting of 18-year-old
Tayshana Murphy last month, remind us how the lives of young men
and women are cut short too often by gun violence,” Vance said.  Murphy, a senior at Murray Bergtraum High School and one of
the top basketball point-guard prospects in the country
according to sports network ESPN, was murdered Sept. 11 in a
hallway of a Manhattan housing project.  The buyback program, which began in 2008, has removed more
than 7,000 guns from the street, according to New York Police
Commissioner  Raymond Kelly . State Senator Bill Perkins said in a
statement that the buyback plan is one of the most cost-
effective government programs because it curtails surgery and
hospital costs, reduces missed days of work and curbs insurance
payouts.  ’Too Many Guns’  “There are just too many guns on the streets and getting
them off the streets is not a solution totally, but it helps,”
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said in an unrelated press briefing
today in  Brooklyn .  Bloomberg is co-chair of Mayors Against Illegal Guns, a
coalition of more than 600 U.S. mayors which separately today
called for the  U.S. Senate  to reject legislation that would
force most states to recognize out-of-state permits to carry
hidden, loaded weapons.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  While overall crime has dropped in  New York City , gun and
gang-related violence has increased. Of the 49 homicides in
Manhattan so far this year, 22 were committed with a gun,
according to the statement. The prior year, more than half the
65 homicides were gun-related.  ‘Candlelight Vigil’  The “Survivors of Gun Violence Candlelight Vigil” on Oct.
21 will be at Bethel Gospel Assembly Church in Harlem. The gun
exchange, in which illegal guns can be turned in with no
consequences, will also be held there, as well as two other
Harlem locations: 2-26 East 120th Street and St. Joseph of the
Holy Family Roman Catholic Church.  For each operable rifle or shotgun turned in, $20 bank
cards will be issued.  Gun-control laws permit legal gun ownership for most people
in most instances while imposing some controls such as criminal-
background checks, waiting periods and minimum purchase ages.
The penalty for illegal gun possession in New York is a 3 1/2-
year prison sentence, after a law increased the minimum sentence
in 2007, creating the toughest law in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  