-- 
New York Times Profit Tops Analysts’ Estimates on Digital Subscriber Gains

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-10-20T20:39:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/new-york-times-profit-tops-analysts-estimates-on-digital-subscriber-gains.html
New York Times Co. (NYT)  reported a third-
quarter profit that topped analysts’ estimates as the publisher
of 18 daily newspapers cut costs and began to make strides in
its transition to a Web-based subscription model.  Earnings per share, excluding some items, fell to 5 cents,
the New York-based company said in a statement today. That
compared with the average estimate of 3 cents from analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. Digital subscriptions to the flagship  New York 
Times rose about 15 percent, pushing companywide circulation
revenue up 3.4 percent as sales of print copies declined.  Times Co. introduced a paid online subscription model for
the New York Times in March and started a similar program at the
Boston Globe this week. Chief Executive Officer Janet Robinson
told analysts today that “significant progress” is being made
with the digital products, and also that the fourth quarter is
showing early signs of improvement for advertising. Times Co.
shares had tumbled to a two-year low in September, when Robinson
said the economy had put advertising “under pressure.”  “They’re recovering a portion of that now,” Douglas Arthur, an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in New York, said
in an interview. “We’re through the bad news now. The company
is saying the fourth quarter is off to a good start, and the
paywall numbers are not awesome, but pretty good.”  Times Co. said digital subscriptions rose to 324,000 at the
end of the quarter, which includes sales on NYTimes.com and
those who sign up on devices through third-party partners such
as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  At the end of the second quarter, the company
had 224,000 direct digital subscribers and 57,000 on e-readers.  Digital Progress  Times Co. rose 9.2 percent to $7.12 in New York trading.
The stock has declined 27 percent this year.  The New York Times Web-based subscription model requires
readers who view more than 20 articles a month to pay for access
to the site’s content. The introduction hasn’t had an adverse
effect on total page views, Robinson told analysts on a
conference call today.  NYTimes.com  had 33 million U.S. page
views at the end of August and 47 million worldwide, she said.  “The page view declines were much less than expected,”
Robinson said.  The company is starting digital plans aimed at
corporations, educational institutions and people who want to
share subscriptions, she said.  ‘Understandable’ Drop  For the third quarter, Times Co. reported net income of
$15.7 million, or 10 cents a share, compared with a net loss of
$4.3 million, or 3 cents, a year earlier. Revenue fell 3.1
percent to $537.2 million. Analysts had forecast $540.5 million.  Total advertising revenue slid 8.8 percent, with print
dropping 10 percent, and digital falling 4.5 percent, the
company said.  “The drop in ad revenues, given the shift over to digital,
is understandable,”  Edward Atorino , an analyst at New York-
based Benchmark Co., said in an interview. “But the growth in
paid digital subscribers wasn’t as strong as I expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 