-- 
Newfield Exploration Drops as Production Forecast Cut

-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-10-20T17:29:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/newfield-exploration-drops-as-production-forecast-cut-1-.html
Newfield Exploration Co. (NFX) , the
petroleum producer with properties from the U.S.  Rocky Mountains 
to  China , had its biggest drop in almost three years after
cutting its production forecast and missing third-quarter
estimates.  Newfield, based in The Woodlands,  Texas , fell 17 percent to
$34.98 at 12:13 p.m. in New York. Earlier the stock fell as much
as 18 percent, the largest intraday decline since November 2008.
The shares have dropped 51 percent this year.  The company reduced its production outlook for 2011 to the
equivalent of 300 billion cubic feet to 304 billion cubic feet
of natural gas, from a previous range of 312 billion cubic feet
to 316 billion cubic feet, according to a statement issued late
yesterday. Newfield reiterated its $1.9 billion spending plan
and said  cash flow  will remain a guide for its capital program.  “It doesn’t sound like they’re resource-constrained, it’s
more of they are trying to employ a very disciplined program,”
said Michael McAllister, an analyst at Sterne Agee in New York
who has a “neutral” on Newfield shares and owns none. “When
you buy an E&P company, unfortunately, you’re not buying it for
capital discipline most of the time.”  Production was affected by increasing service costs that
prompted the company to cut back drilling in  North Dakota ’s
Williston Basin. Newfield has reduced its rig count in the basin
and is delaying the completion of 13 wells until early 2012.  Adverse Weather  Asset sales, adverse weather in the  Gulf of Mexico  and
reduced spending in some areas also contributed to the lower
production forecast, the company said.  The company said sales of “non-strategic” assets have
reached $200 million this year and it plans additional deals to
bring it to $400 million to $550 million in proceeds by the end
of 2011. Further asset sales are possible in 2012, Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Lee Boothby said on a conference call
with analysts and investors today.  He said the company will seek higher margins and cash flow
over absolute production growth. Boothby said the company could
have chosen to spend more to hit its output goal.  “We thought a more prudent decision at this point is to
adjust our program, start repositioning assets within the
corporation to the 2012 game plan, and we’re doing that as we
speak,” Boothby said.  Newfield has been seeking to increase its oil output as
natural gas traded in  New York  has averaged less than $5 per
million British thermal units in 11 straight quarters.  ‘Lost Confidence’  The company needs to regain some “lost confidence” that
it can increase production at a reasonable cost as it
transitions to more oil output, said  Leo Mariani , an analyst at
 RBC Capital Markets  in Austin, Texas, who has an “outperform”
rating on Newfield and doesn’t own any shares.  Third-quarter net income rose 67 percent to $269 million,
or $1.99 a share, compared with $161 million, or $1.20 a share,
from the same period a year ago, the company said. Profit
included a $129 million after-tax gain related to energy
contracts that boosted quarterly earnings by 95 cents a share.  Excluding the one-time gain, Newfield’s profit was $1.04 a
share, 12 cents less than the average of 26 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  