-- 
News Corp. Said to Cut Up to 200 Jobs at Times and Sunday Times

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-10-20T17:18:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/news-corp-said-to-cut-up-to-200-jobs-at-times-and-sunday-times.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. publishing unit
will cut as many as 200 jobs at the Times and the Sunday Times
publications amid a hacking scandal that has shrunk the
company’s business in Britain, a person with knowledge of the
matter said.  As many as 100 positions will have to go at the daily  Times 
broadsheet out of 700 employees, the person said, declining to
be named because the plan has only been announced to employees
so far. Another 20 full-time employees at the Sunday edition will
lose their jobs along with 30 percent of part-time employees,
said the person.  News International, based in London, shut down the News of
the World tabloid in July after reports surfaced that reporters
had hacked into the voicemail of murdered schoolgirl  Milly
Dowler . The business has been sued by at least 64 celebrities,
politicians and other people over claims related to phone-
hacking.  The job losses at the Times and the Sunday Times are part
of a broader cost cutting drive across the News International
division that has already impacted employees in the marketing
departments as News Corp., the person said.  The cuts, which will save 15 percent of annual costs at the
Times and cut 12 percent of expenses at the Sunday Times, will
include reporters and editors along with production staff, the
person said.  The cuts are expected to be completed within 90 days, the
person said, adding that the savings will act as a buffer
against rising news print prices and the impact of the current
economic woes.  News International declined to comment. The Telegraph
reported the job cuts earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  