-- 
Next Arab Domino May Be Oil Darling Algeria: Reuel Marc Gerecht

-- B y   R e u e l   M a r c   G e r e c h t
-- 
2011-10-20T23:01:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/next-arab-domino-may-be-oil-darling-algeria-reuel-marc-gerecht.html
The death of  Muammar Qaddafi  is
a cause for joy in  Libya , and for concern. Some worry that
the ruling National Transitional Council will force its way
to permanent power; others that Islamist elements will seek
to put the country under Shariah law; and there is also the
danger of the nation splitting into three parts.  But there is another tremendous threat to Libya’s
progress waiting quietly next door. Algeria’s military
junta is terrified that a rebellious spirit may finally
cross its borders. Ever since the Tunisian revolt dethroned
President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, Washington’s foreign-
policy establishment has paid little attention to Algeria,
the lodestar of “the Arab West.”  That’s a mistake. With Qaddafi’s fall and next week’s
elections in Tunisia, the odds are decent that the Great
Arab Revolt will start to shake  Algeria . The country is now
surrounded by states in transition: Libya, Tunisia and
 Morocco , where the king just might be laying the groundwork
for the Middle East’s first real constitutional monarchy.  Algeria isn’t a closed society. There are probably
more Algerians living in the West than any other Arab
nationality, and they usually remain in close contact with
family and friends back home.  Prized Oil  Although oil and natural gas wealth hasn’t enriched
the common man, it has exposed the society -- especially
the elite -- to globalization. Algerian oil, with its very
low sulfur content, is highly prized in pollution-conscious
Europe. The U.S. buys about 30 percent of Algeria’s crude-
oil exports, accounting for 3.6 percent of American
petroleum imports last year. Algeria is the world’s sixth-
largest producer of natural gas, with most of its exports
going to  Europe .  A former colony of  France  and profoundly westernized,
Algeria was the first major Arab state to flirt with
democracy. The military dictatorship -- spiritually
bankrupt, economically inept and violently challenged on
the streets -- that had ruled the nation unchallenged since
the mid-1960s, decided in 1989 to try elections. Yet after
the triumph of the fundamentalist Islamic Salvation Front
in local elections in 1990, the junta canceled the
experiment. Civil war followed. In a savage duel between
the regime and Islamist guerrillas, entire villages were
wiped out.  So far, the lingering trauma of that bloodbath has
helped save the regime from a new wave of Arab rebellion.
But young men have bad memories -- and the Great Arab
Revolt of 2011 has been the product of aspiring, deeply
frustrated young men. Although the Algerian economy has
improved since 1990, economic aspirations have far
outstripped the government’s ability to  promote job growth .  On top of a corrupt socialist economy, the regime has
built a masterpiece of crony capitalism. The dissident
historian Mohammed Harbi, who once championed the rebellion
against France and now lives in exile in Paris, put it
succinctly: “The regime has nothing to offer for the long
term. It is not interested in asking where Algeria and
Algerians will be in twenty years.”  Nothing really works in the country, except the oil
and natural-gas industries, which fuel the police state.
Hundreds of thousands have emigrated from the poverty,
boredom and brutality of the security services.  In France and  Belgium , expatriates have developed a
pro-democracy virtual world on the Internet. Although
deeply fearful of its powerful neighbor,  Tunisia  has
developed a press that not only critiques its own embrace
of democracy but also the resistance to popular government
next door.  False Mandate  In the past 10 years, the Algerian regime has worked
hard to create the illusion that it enjoys a popular
mandate. Thousands of youthful demonstrators who briefly
hit the streets after Tunisia and  Egypt  erupted revealed
different sentiments.  If Algeria starts to rumble again, it will be because
pro-democracy Algerian secularists detest the military
dictatorship more than they fear Islamists. Indeed, in
Tunisia and Egypt, Islamic parties have gained strength
since the presidents-for-life fell. The wearing of veils
has become much more common in Tunis, even in the wealthier
neighborhoods.  The Algerian junta held firm in the 1990s partly
because the non-Islamist middle and upper classes that
detested the regime were repelled by the barbarism of the
guerrillas. When jihadists started butchering women and
children, the Islamic alternative became too frightful.
(Also, the brutality of the government’s forces -- the
worst of them happily called themselves “les
exterminateurs” -- inspired abject fear.) If the Tunisian
and Egyptian elections bring Islamists to power and the sky
doesn’t fall, however, the odds of popular unrest in
Algeria will shorten further.  The nature of Islamism has changed since 1990. Then,
leading voices within the Islamic Salvation Front openly
questioned the need for democracy since Shariah had all the
answers. Today, while it may partly be duplicity at work,
those Algerian voices have almost vanished. In Tunisia and
Egypt, the big Islamist movements have embraced
representative government -- younger members of the
Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood are loudly pro-democracy.  Religious hierarchy in the  Middle East  is in an
advanced state of decay. Established religious institutions
got compromised because of their close association with
dictatorships.  Driving Force  In Egypt, this has produced ardently pro-democratic
young Islamists who challenge their elders from the “left”
and hard-core fundamentalist splinter groups who challenge
from the “right.” This individualization of the Muslim
identity -- “my opinion is just as good as yours” -- is
something entirely new to Islam, and its deep penetration
into the Middle East is a driving force behind the revolts.  In Algeria, we don’t know where the successors of the
Islamic Salvation Front stand, since discussions of man,
God and the ballot box have been silenced by the regime.
But the secular Arab middle class and the university-
educated young throughout the region are no longer offering
their unconditional support to secular dictators for fear
of what Islamists might bring. The era of “Khomeini
anxiety” -- dominated by a fear that revolution and
democracy will lead to theocracy -- may be fading.  All this has Algeria’s generals understandably
nervous. If elections in Tunisia and Egypt empower
Islamists, we can expect Algeria’s leaders to clandestinely
aid unrest in Libya, creating a chaotic buffer zone against
the spread of popular government.  One thing is certain, if revolt comes to Algeria,
anger at the U.S. will probably swell. Twenty years ago,
France was still the omnipresent devil. In the popular
imagination today,  Washington  has replaced Paris as the
backer of tyranny.  In 2002,  William Burns , an assistant secretary of
state, remarked in Algiers that the U.S. “has much to learn
from Algeria on ways to fight terrorism.” This solicitation
has continued under President  Barack Obama . Last month, the
State Department coordinator for counterterrorism, Daniel Benjamin, was in Algiers. At a counterterrorist conference
hosted by the government, he saw an opportunity “for our
officials to learn from the experiences of other allied
countries, in particular our North African partners.  “Our bilateral cooperation with the Algerian
government in the battle against terrorism is now stronger
than it has ever been,” he said, covering “issues of public
diplomacy, economics, and military aid.”  Algerian President Abdelaziz Bouteflika has
relentlessly used counterterrorism -- the battle against
al-Qaeda -- to justify political repression and the severe
abuse of human rights. With such careless public comments,
American officials reinforce the regime, but deeply anger
the citizenry.  Since 1990, Algeria has been a volcano waiting to
explode again. The revolts in Libya and Tunisia have
probably brought that day closer. The coming shock to
energy markets and America’s role in the region may not be
small.  (Reuel Marc Gerecht, a former case officer in the
Central Intelligence Agency, is a senior fellow at the
Foundation for Defense of Democracies. He is the author of
“The Wave: Man, God, and the Ballot Box in the Middle
East.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Reuel Marc Gerecht at  efratiforty@me.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  