-- 
No More Qaddafi, Plenty of Worries for New Libya Leaders: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-20T23:01:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/no-more-qaddafi-plenty-of-worries-for-new-libya-leaders-view.html
Libyans are rejoicing at the death
of their former dictator  Muammar Qaddafi , but the party can’t
last long. The hard business of creating a modern state lies
ahead.  As a first step, the ruling National Transitional Council
needs to quickly form an interim government that will include
representatives of the country’s various regional and tribal
factions.  Contrary to the oft-repeated claim from Western pundits
that “we don’t know who they are,” we have a great deal of
knowledge about the transitional council, and much of it
impresses. Chairman Mustafa Abdel Jalil served as justice
minister in the Qaddafi regime, and his efforts to change the
system from within earned respect from average Libyans and
garnered accolades from groups such as  Human Rights Watch .
Finance chief Ali Tarhouni, who had been teaching economics at
the University of  Washington  before returning to his native
country in February, hatched a plan to have wealthy nations open
a line of credit, backed by Libya’s frozen foreign assets, to
finance the insurgency.  The challenge for the council will be to keep basic
services running and prepare for a democratic transition without
getting bogged down in past resentments. This will mean
compromise -- with other rebel factions, with pro-democracy
Islamist groups, with some Qaddafi loyalists and with groups
like the Berbers in the south that have never had a stake in
national governance. It’s in nobody’s interest for the country
to dissolve along tribal lines or for its three regions --
Tripolitania, Fezzan and Cyrenaica -- to seek independent
statehood.  Just as Western airpower made possible the rebels’ victory,
it will fall on wealthy countries to provide assistance and
expertise for the fledgling state. Here are some of the many
tasks ahead:  -- Money: The Qaddafi regime stashed away an estimated $132
billion in foreign assets, held mostly by its central bank and
sovereign wealth fund. Foreign governments were right to freeze
this money during the conflict, but it now should be fully
released to the interim government.  -- Oil: Although pre-conflict  Libya  produced only 2 percent
of the world’s supply, its low-sulfur sweet crude is prized, and
the vast majority goes to Europe. The transitional government
needs to revive the income stream, and has wisely said it will
honor most existing contracts with foreign companies.
Unfortunately, Qaddafi’s forces littered the  oil fields  with
 land mines  before retreating; a United Nations-led task force
that has been helping the rebels clear the fields needs
enlarging. Also, wells and submersible pumps have probably
deteriorated after months of disuse; technical help from Western
and Persian Gulf states could speed up restoration.  -- Weapons: Any country emerging from civil war is flooded
with weapons, and little can be done about small arms other than
the new government providing effective security. Libya is a
special case, however, in that Qaddafi had a vast arsenal,
including an estimated 20,000 surface-to-air missiles that can
bring down a jetliner. In Tripoli on Tuesday, U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  pledged to increase support for a program
that sends former U.S. military personnel to help track down and
secure the missiles. That will be money well spent.  -- Refugees: There are at least 250,000 internally
displaced Libyans, and tens of thousands more in  Tunisia  and
other neighboring states. The new government and nongovernmental
groups will need international assistance to supply the
population with adequate shelter, medical care and sustenance
(Libya imports more than 80 percent of its  food supply ).  -- Water: Libya’s population is overwhelmingly urban, and
the water for its major coastal cities is supplied by the
massive Great Man-Made River, a monument to Qaddafi’s
megalomania that will actually pay dividends. It came through
the war largely intact, but the water pumps that supply Tripoli
were put out of commission during fighting Oct. 17 in Bani
Walid. The transitional government may need help to secure the
water and electricity networks and keep them running.  -- Security: The rebels have done a remarkable job of
keeping the public peace as they freed areas from the regime.
Let’s hope that, in the absence of a common enemy, this
stability continues. The last thing European nations and the
U.S. want is to send peacekeepers to Libya, so it is in their
interests to provide money and trainers to create a professional
police force.  There’s a lot to do, and some may wonder, at a time of
economic hardship, why the U.S. and European Union need to get
further involved. There are plenty of good reasons. Getting
Libyan oil back online is essential to stabilizing global
prices, and will provide new business opportunities for Western
companies. A humanitarian emergency in Libya could well lead to
a flood of refugees across the Mediterranean to  Europe . An
influx of Libyan weaponry onto the global arms market would be a
boon for terrorist groups. And, considering the risk NATO
members took in backing the rebels, it would be senseless to
squander a chance at a lasting victory.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 