-- 
No Peak Oil to Yergin Who Sees Years of Rising Supplies: Books

-- B y   S t a n l e y   R e e d
-- 
2011-10-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/no-peak-oil-to-yergin-who-expects-decades-of-rising-supplies-book-review.html
Toward the end of “ The Quest ,” his
sprawling book on energy,  Daniel Yergin  introduces an obscure
19th-century character named Sadi Carnot.  The son of one of Napoleon’s ministers of war, Carnot was
convinced that an important reason for Britain’s victory over
Napoleon was “its mastery of energy, specifically the steam
engine.” In 1824 he published a study on this theme called
“Reflections on the Motive Power of Fire,” which Yergin calls
“almost certainly the first systematic analysis of how man had
actually harnessed energy.”  For more than three decades, Yergin has been Carnot’s heir,
cutting through fog and emotions to provide lucid analysis of
energy issues. He emerged on the public stage in the wake of the
1973 oil embargo and its gas lines, which sparked a persistent
feeling of unease about  energy security  in the U.S.  He has been a consultant to industry and governments, most
recently as chairman of  IHS Cambridge Energy Research
Associates . At the same time he has continued to address a wider
audience through his  writing .  Yergin is best known for “ The Prize ” (1991), his Pulitzer
Prize-winning history of the oil industry. “The Quest” is in
some respects a sequel, but it’s not in the same league. The new
book is too long and lacks a compelling narrative thread.  More worryingly, Yergin seems overly gentle with major oil-
market players such as BP, which was at the heart of the 2010
Gulf oil spill. In a section on the feverish oil bubble of 2008,
those analysts predicting ever higher prices aren’t identified
in the main text, their names buried in footnotes. Perhaps
Yergin’s business interests are conflicting with his reporting.  Peak Oil Theory  “The Quest” is still worth reading for Yergin’s erudition
and insight. For instance, he debunks the peak oil theory, which
says world gas and oil production may soon top out and then
rapidly decline. (This idea helped lead to the price spike of
2008.) Yergin notes that such fears have cropped up before.  “This is not the first time the world has run out of
oil,” he writes. “It is the fifth.”  Yergin is confident that the industry will be able to keep
up with growing demand. He says an IHS CERA study of some 70,000
 oil fields  reveals that “the world is clearly not running out
of oil. Far from it.”  Supply is growing, not shrinking, Yergin says. This is due
not only to new discoveries but to an even more important
source: additional oil found in existing fields. The big
question, he implies, is not whether the oil is there but
whether the political climate will foster the massive investment
-- $8 trillion is one estimate -- that is needed to satisfy
demand over the next quarter century.  Plateau, Not Peak  Yergin concludes that rather than collapsing, world
production is likely to grow about 20 percent over the next two
decades and that a plateau “is a more appropriate image for
what is ahead than the peak.” Twenty years may not seem so far
away, but Yergin believes that new energy sources such as shale
oil will be found to keep pushing that expected plateau “into
the horizon.”  The central message of Yergin’s book is reassuring. Yes,
the world faces enormous challenges in finding ways to satisfy
the demand for energy and tackling  climate change . Yet human
ingenuity offers hope.  Yergin tells the story of the determined experimenting by
George P. Mitchell of Mitchell Energy, which eventually produced
the shale gas revolution that has transformed the U.S. natural
gas supply in the last few years. “Perennial shortage gave way
to substantial surplus,” Yergin writes.  Hydraulic Fracturing  The hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling used in
recovering gas from shale could also lead to huge new supplies
of oil, despite environmental concerns, he says.  Other parts of the book are less satisfying. A chapter
called “Supermajors” revisits the takeover wave of the 1990s
that created Exxon Mobil, the current version of BP and  France ’s
giant Total. Yet one longs for more analysis of whether these
takeovers worked.  His writing on climate change, probably the biggest energy
challenge, lacks a punch line. He capably surveys the world of
renewables: Wind power, solar power, bio-fuels and what he calls
“the fifth fuel”: efficiency. He is wishy-washy on whether
investment in these areas will be enough to head off climate
disaster.  With the caveat that “things can go seriously wrong,”
Yergin places his bets on a “globalization of innovation” that
will “fuel the insight and ingenuity that will find the new
solutions.” There is an old saying that “oil is found in the
minds of men.” Yergin is confident that the solutions to our
energy conundrums will be found there also.  “The Quest: Energy, Security and the Remaking of the
Modern World” is published by Penguin Press in the U.S. and
 Allen Lane  in the U.K. (804 pages, $37.95, 30 pounds).  (Stanley Reed is a reporter-at-large for Bloomberg News and
co-author of “In Too Deep: BP and the Drilling Race that Took
It Down.”)  To contact the writer on this story:
Stanley Reed in  London  at 
 sreed13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 