-- 
Noble Corp. Says ‘Plate Full,’ Not Adding New Rigs This Year

-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 
2011-10-20T20:15:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/noble-corp-says-plate-full-not-adding-new-rigs-this-year.html
Noble Corp. (NE) , the world’s third-
largest offshore driller based on revenue, said it’s unlikely to
order any more rigs this year as it works to roll out 14 new
vessels by 2015.  Three drillships are expected to be completed this year,
followed by five floating vessels and six shallow-water rigs in
the next four years, the Geneva-based driller has said.  “We’ve got our plate full, and I think we’ll play these
and work on execution,” Chief Executive Officer  David Williams 
told analysts and investors today on a third-quarter earnings
conference call. “We’ll take a look probably sometime next year
on what we think the market looks like for future
opportunities.”  Noble rose 5.3 percent to $33.45 at the close in  New York .
The shares, which have 31 buy ratings from analysts, 10 holds
and 1 sell, have dropped 6.5 percent this year.  The company said it plans to boost its  capital spending  to
$2.7 billion this year, up by about $200 million from a forecast
earlier this year, partly because of its new-build program,
Dennis Lubojacky, controller at Noble, said on the call.  The drilling contractor is also considering whether to sell
some of its jack-up rigs and hopes to decide by the end of the
year, Williams has said.  The company reported yesterday earnings rose 57 percent to
$135 million, or 53 cents a share, from $86 million, or 34
cents, a year earlier. Excluding a 4-cent tax benefit, the
company missed by 3 cents the average of 36 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the world’s largest offshore driller, will
report earnings on Nov. 2.  Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc. (DO) , the
second-largest offshore driller, reported today earnings of
$256.9 million, or $1.85 per share, which beat by 38 cents the
average of 33 analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston  at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  