-- 
Nokia Reports Smaller Loss as Handset Sales Beat Estimates

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-10-20T17:25:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/nokia-third-quarter-net-loss-eu68-million-beating-estimates.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  reported a smaller-than-
estimated loss and forecast a profitable quarter for the handset
business as the Finnish manufacturer prepares to introduce
models based on Microsoft Corp.’s software. The shares surged.  The third-quarter net loss was 68 million euros ($94
million), Espoo, Finland-based Nokia said today. Analysts had
projected a 229 million-euro loss. Shipments of lower-priced
handsets jumped 8 percent to almost 90 million units, boosted by
models with two SIM-card slots. Those sold 17.9 million units,
helping overall volumes exceed estimates by 14 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop is set to introduce a
smartphone line based on Microsoft’s Windows Phone software at
the Nokia World event in  London  next week. In moving to the new
platform, the company accelerated the decline of the 10-year-old
Symbian device family, which has been losing market share to
Apple Inc. and Google Inc.  “The good result in handsets is largely due to dual-SIM
and channel replenishment in  China ,” said  Alexander Peterc , a
London-based analyst at Exane BNP Paribas. “It’s a medium- to
low-quality beat because the channel replenishment is a one-off,
but encouraging for Nokia because it’s no longer making losses
and burning cash.”  Nokia jumped as much as 12 percent to 5.01 euros to the
highest level in almost five months in Helsinki trading. It
closed at 4.73 euros in Helsinki, giving the company a market
value of 17.7 billion euros.  Smartphones Slump  Nokia said in February that the transition to Windows Phone
as its main handset platform would start this year, with large
volumes coming next year. Elop said today that the company will
start shipping this quarter and expand to more countries and
carriers in 2012.  Third-quarter revenue declined 13 percent to 8.98 billion
euros. Nokia’s overall handset shipments slid 3 percent to 106.6
million units, while analysts had estimated sales of 93.6
million phones. Smartphones shipments still slumped 38 percent
to 16.8 million units.  Apple sold 17.07 million iPhones in the third quarter. Last
week, it set a record of selling more than 4 million iPhone 4S
devices over the debut weekend.  Nokia’s handset business had an operating margin of 4.1
percent adjusted for some items. The margin will be in a range
of 1 percent to 5 percent this quarter, the company said today.  Chinese Inventory  “We started to see signs of early improvement in many
areas,” Elop, 47, said in the statement. The quarterly results
“indicate that our sales execution and channel inventory
situation have improved.”  Innovation and ability to cut operating costs should help
the company toward a long-term target of 10 percent or more for
the adjusted devices margin, Chief Financial Officer Timo Ihamuotila said on an analyst teleconference.  “As you see our first products launch, you’ll see the
first signs of differentiation relative to Android and iPhone
and also relative to other players within the Windows
ecosystem,” Elop told the analysts. The first is more important
in the short term, he added.  Further out, Nokia has a “clear engineering line of
sight” on reducing Windows Phone prices to compete with low-
priced smartphones from other manufacturers, Elop said, without
specifying timetables. Microsoft’s Windows Phone chief  Andy Lees 
said today that cooperation with parts makers including Qualcomm
Inc. will halve prices for handsets on the platform to $200 next
year.  Competition  The world’s largest handset maker since 1998 with market
shares as high as  40 percent , Nokia had a  22.8 percent share  in
the second quarter, according to researcher Gartner Inc. It fell
to third place in smartphone sales to carriers and resellers as
Apple and Samsung Electronics Co. passed it for the first time
in the quarter,  Strategy Analytics  said.  Elop has said Nokia will continue selling Symbian devices
and upgrading the software through 2016. The former Microsoft
executive set a target in February of selling 150 million
additional Symbian handsets. The company is also investing to
refresh its low-end handsets, which have declined as Asian
manufacturers churn out smartphones running Google Inc.’s
Android priced less than $100.  Last month, Nokia said it plans to close a factory in
 Romania  that produces low-end handsets for  Europe . It also
started a review of its factories in Finland, Hungary and
 Mexico , and expanded job cuts to about 7,500 in total.  Nokia Siemens Networks, the phone-equipment venture with
 Siemens AG (SIE) , posted a third-quarter operating loss of 114 million
euros. The parents said Sept. 29 that they would inject 1
billion euros into the company.  The venture is “arguably in an even tougher position than
Nokia,” said James Crawshaw, a London-based equity analyst at
 Standard & Poor’s . “Neither parent is particularly committed to
the joint venture and nobody else is particularly interested
either.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  