-- 
Nokia Reports Smaller Loss as Sales Beat Estimates

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-10-20T10:11:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/nokia-reports-smaller-loss-as-sales-beat-estimates.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  reported a smaller-than-
estimated loss and forecast the handset business to be
profitable this quarter as the Finnish manufacturer prepares to
introduce models based on Microsoft Corp.’s software. The shares 
surged.  The third-quarter net loss was 68 million euros ($94
million), beating the 229 million-euro average loss estimate by
22 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Sales declined 13 percent to
8.98 billion euros as handset shipments dropped 3 percent to
106.6 million units, Espoo, Finland-based Nokia said in a
statement today. Analyst predicted sales of 93.6 million phones.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop is set to introduce a
smartphone line based on Microsoft’s Windows Phone software at
the Nokia World event in  London  next week. In moving to the new
platform, the company accelerated the decline of the 10-year-old
Symbian device family, which has been losing market share to
Apple Inc. and Google Inc.  The results “indicate that our sales execution and channel
inventory situation have improved,” Elop said in the statement.  Nokia jumped as much as 8 percent in Helsinki trading after
the announcement and traded at 4.76 euros, or 6.3 percent
higher, as of 1:06 p.m. local time.  Nokia said in February that the transition to Windows Phone
as its main handset platform would start this year, with large
volumes coming next year. It rolled out two more Symbian
software releases and seven Symbian handsets before outsourcing
support of the older system to  Accenture Plc  last month.  Market Share Loss  The world’s largest handset maker since 1998 with market
shares as high as  40 percent , Nokia had a  22.8 percent share  in
the second quarter, according to researcher Gartner Inc. It fell
to third place in smartphone sales to carriers and resellers as
Apple and Samsung Electronics Co. passed it for the first time
in the quarter,  Strategy Analytics  said.  Apple sold 17.07 million iPhones in the third quarter. Last
week, it set a record of selling more than 4 million iPhone 4S
devices over the debut weekend.  Elop, 47, has said Nokia will continue selling Symbian
devices and upgrading the software through 2016. The former
Microsoft executive set a target in February of selling 150
million additional Symbian handsets. The company is also
investing to refresh its low-end handsets, which have declined
as Asian manufacturers churn out smartphones running Google
Inc.’s Android priced less than $100.  Last month, Nokia said it plans to close a factory in
 Romania  that produces low-end handsets for  Europe . It also
started a review of its factories in Finland, Hungary and
 Mexico , and expanded job cuts to about 7,500 in total.  Nokia Siemens Networks, the phone-equipment venture with
 Siemens AG (SIE) , posted a third-quarter operating loss of 114 million
euros. The parents said Sept. 29 that they would inject 1
billion euros into the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  