-- 
Noonan Says Irish Want to Pay Debts, Not Follow Greece

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-10-20T15:09:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/noonan-says-ireland-wants-to-pay-its-debts-not-take-greek-route.html
Ireland’s government wants to repay
its debts, to avoid the “appalling” scenario unfolding in
Greece, Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said today.  A solution for one member state of the euro region isn’t
necessarily appropriate for another, Noonan told reporters in
Dublin, as the country’s bailout partners lauded the government
for its “strong” implementation of its program. While European
authorities discuss how to include a write down of as much as 50
percent of Greek bonds, Noonan said that Ireland doesn’t want to
go “down the route” of Greece.  Ireland will beat its target of reducing its  budget deficit 
to about 10.5 percent of gross domestic product this year, and
plans to unveil additional austerity measures of more than 3.6
billion euros ($4.9 billion) for next year, Noonan said. Greek
Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s government is facing protests
by an estimated 50,000 people gathered in  Athens  for a second
day as its bailout partners force it to make steeper cuts.  Tear gas was fired in central Athens as protesters clashed
with police for a second day outside the parliament building
where lawmakers debated the austerity bill, the second in four
months.  Ireland aims to be the first of three bailed-out euro-area
countries to exit their rescue program, Irish Prime Minister
 Enda Kenny  said earlier this month. Even with a slowing in
growth at its trade partners, Ireland’s economy is forecast to
grow by 1 percent this year and next, the  International Monetary
Fund , EU and  European Central Bank  said today.  Woods  “Ireland is not of the woods yet,” said Istvan Szekely, a
European Commission official overseeing the bailout in Dublin
today. “It’s made a lot of progress, but there’s a long way to
go.”  Szekely said that he would look at any decisions from this
weekend’s summit of European leaders to see how they can be used
to improve Ireland’s situation. Ireland may try to transfer part
of the 62 billion-euro cost of bailing out its banks to the
euro-region’s rescue fund should policy makers allow the
facility to buy stakes directly in lenders, three people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Ireland’s two-year borrowing cost, which reached a record
23.5 percent in July, dropped 26 basis points, or 0.26
percentage point, today to 8.26 percent. The yield on two-year
Greek bonds climbed 23 basis points to 76.86 percent.  Ireland was the second euro country to receive a rescue,
being pledged 67.5 billion euros in November, after  Greece ’s
April 2010 package.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Colin Keatinge
at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  