-- 
Nutrition Rating System Urged by U.S. Panel for Food Labels

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-10-20T17:18:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/nutrition-rating-system-urged-by-u-s-panel-for-food-labels.html
Foods sold in U.S. stores need
standardized labels to let consumers rank their nutritional
value, according to a report from a government science panel.  The front-of-pack nutrition labels should use a ratings
system similar to the federal  Energy Star  program that rates
consumer product efficiency, the U.S. Institute of Medicine said
today in the report. The labels should rate sodium, sugar and
fat content on a scale of zero to three, the panel said.  The Obama administration has pushed for uniform nutrition
labels in an effort to reduce obesity. The U.S. obesity rate has
more than  doubled  since 1980 to 72 million people, according to
the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . Americans spend
about $147 billion a year on obesity-related health costs, with
the federal Medicare and Medicaid programs covering 42 percent.
Obesity raises risks of diabetes, heart attacks and strokes.  “Americans today have access to more information about
nutrition than any previous generation, and yet the nation is
facing a crisis of obesity and diet-related chronic disease,”
said Ellen Wartella, the panel’s leader and a professor of
psychology at  Northwestern University  in Evanston,  Illinois .
“It’s clear that there is a disconnect between dietary
recommendations and actual consumption.”  ‘Fundamental Shift’  The  Food and Drug Administration  and the Department of
Agriculture should consider “a fundamental shift in strategy
that moves beyond simply informing consumers about nutrition
facts and encourages them to purchase healthier food and
beverages,” Wartella said today at a news conference.  Standardized labels on package fronts also should display
calorie amounts in common household serving sizes, according to
the panel for the institute, the health arm of the National
Academies science advisory agency in Washington.  The  food industry  began a front-of-package labeling system
this year in response to first lady  Michelle Obama ’s campaign
against obesity and the FDA’s push for more accurate nutrition
data. The voluntary program doesn’t include the point-based
rating system urged by the Institute panel.  The  Facts Up Front  program, announced in January by the
 Grocery Manufacturers Association  and the  Food Marketing
Institute , uses symbols known as nutrition keys to disclose
calorie counts and the amount of saturated fat, sodium and
sugars in each serving. The trade groups surveyed more than
7,000 consumers in developing the symbols.  ‘Untested’ Approach  “The most effective programs are those that consumers
embrace,” the grocers’ group said today in an e-
mail. “Consumers have said repeatedly that they want to make
their own judgments, rather than have government tell them what
they should and should not eat. We have concerns about the
untested, interpretive approach suggested by the IOM
committee.”  The grocers’ group, based in Washington, represents more
than 300 companies including  Nestle SA (NESN)  of Vevey,  Switzerland ,
and Northfield, Illinois-based  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , the world’s two
biggest food companies, as well as Atlanta-based  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) 
and Purchase, New York-based PepsiCo Inc., the two largest soft-
drink makers.  Kroger Co. (KR) , the largest U.S. supermarket chain
based in Cincinnati, is among the Arlington, Virginia-based Food
Marketing Institute’s 1,500 members.  The committee’s proposed rating system is “eminently
sensible” and “far preferable” to the industry’s program,
said Michael Jacobson, executive director of the Center for
Science in the Public Interest, a consumer group in Washington.  Industry ‘Scheme’  “The industry hopes to preempt more consumer-friendly
requirements by the FDA,” Jacobson said today in an e-
mail. “The industry’s complex scheme requires consumers to
consider the amounts of calories and four to six nutrients,
without any numerical score or useful symbols to convey a food’s
nutritional value.”  The FDA will review the panel’s recommendations as part of
its “continuing assessment of possible approaches” to
nutrition labeling on package fronts, Siobhan DeLancey, an
agency spokeswoman, said today in an e-mail. The FDA, CDC and
USDA had requested the institute panel’s study.  “FDA agrees consumers can benefit from a front-of-pack
labeling system that conveys nutrition information in a manner
that is simple and consistent with the Nutrition Facts panel,”
DeLancey said. “The IOM report thoughtfully reveals some of the
complexities of achieving this goal.”  Energy Star  The Institute panel considered the Energy Star program a
good model for nutrition labels because it “interprets the data
for the consumer,” said  Matthew Kreuter , a member of the
Institute committee. The 19-year-old program, overseen by the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the Energy Department,
rates the energy efficiency of appliances, electronics and
building products.  Consumers relying on the Energy Star symbols “don’t have
to know anything about kilowatt hours or any of those scientific
specifications,” said Kreuter, who is director of the Health
Communication Research Laboratory at  Washington University  in
 St. Louis .  The panel’s food-rating proposal is simpler than the
industry’s voluntary labels because consumers wouldn’t need
“any amount of nutrition knowledge” or “a great deal of
literacy” to understand it, Kreuter said.  “You just need to understand that three is better than
two, two is better than one, one is better than zero,” Kreuter
said. The proposed system also could prompt foodmakers to
reformulate products to get “more favorable ratings,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in  Washington  at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  