-- 
Obama Awards 13 Presidential Citizens Medals for Selfless Acts

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-10-20T19:30:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/obama-awards-13-presidential-citizens-medals-for-selfless-acts.html
President  Barack Obama  awarded the
2011 Presidential Citizens Medal, the nation’s second-highest
civilian honor, to 13 Americans.  Camilla Bloomquist of Penn Yan, New York, has spent more
than 30 years giving out free food for the needy, with 22,000
requests for aid last year alone.  “For decades, she has personified the phrase ‘above and
beyond,’” Obama said at a White House ceremony, linking good
deeds of the 13 Americans to the story of the Good Samaritan.  “They come from different backgrounds” and have “devoted
themselves to different causes,” Obama said. “They are united
by the choice that they’ve made. They could have made an excuse
to do nothing; instead they chose to help.”  In some cases, he said, “the choice to help was especially
hard, because it came in the wake of tragedy.”  The medal was established in 1969 to recognize American
citizens who have performed exemplary deeds of service for their
country or their fellow citizens. Awards are made to people
whose work has had a lasting effect on others, their community,
the nation or the world.  Obama asked the public in May to nominate people who
performed such deeds outside of their regular jobs, seeking the
extraordinary or those who took an unusual risk to protect
others, according to the White House. He looked for people who
made a commitment to help others who fought hunger,
homelessness, school dropouts or lack of access to health care.  More than 6,000 nominations were submitted online,
according to the White House.  Award Recipients  The 13 recipients:  -- Steve and Liz Alderman of Armonk,  New York , who founded
the Peter C. Alderman Foundation to help treat and heal the
emotional wounds of victims of terrorism and mass violence,
after their son, Peter Alderman, was killed in the World Trade
Center attack on Sept. 11, 2001. The foundation trains health
care professionals and establishes clinics in post-conflict
countries such as Cambodia, Uganda, Rwanda and  Haiti . Peter
Alderman worked for Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  -- Clarence Lee Alexander of Fort Yukon,  Alaska , known as
the “grandfather of tribal government” for work cleaning up
the Yukon River, resulting in closure of numerous open-burning
dumps and the removal or recycling of millions pounds of waste.  -- Bloomquist, who founded Food for the Needy and Christmas
for the Needy.  -- Judith Broder of Studio City,  California , founded the
Soldiers Project, which works to meet the mental health needs of
service members, their families and returning veterans. More
than 600 therapists have provided more than 7,400 hours of free
time, offering psychological services to veterans.  Breaking Taboos  -- Vijaya Emani of Strongsville,  Ohio , for becoming a role
model for victims of domestic abuse after overcoming it in her
own life, and by breaking a taboo in the Indian American
community. Emani, who was killed in a vehicle accident, was
awarded the medal posthumously.  -- John Keaveney of Los Angeles, a Vietnam combat veteran,
who founded the New Directions home for homeless and disabled
veterans with addiction and mental health problems.  -- Roger Kemp of Leawood,  Kansas , created The Ali Kemp
Defense Education Foundation, which has trained more than 46,000
women in self defense, after his daughter, Ali, 19, was killed
in the summer of 2002.  -- Janice Langbehn of Lacey, Washington, after a lawsuit,
began a successful campaign to revise hospital visitation rights
for gay and lesbian couples, which went into effect this past
January for any hospitals receiving federal Medicare or Medicaid
funds. She acted after her partner, Lisa Pond, fell ill from a
brain aneurysm and died in the hospital alone, because Langbehn
was refused access. Obama personally apologized to her for the
way she and her family were treated.  Financial Crisis  -- Ida Martin of Bluffton,  South Carolina , created Bluffton
Self Help to aid working families, disabled residents and senior
citizens suffering a financial crisis. In 2010, her program
provided 62,000 items of food to 11,600 people and provided
clothing to almost 9,000 people.  -- Margaret Martin of  Los Angeles  founded the Harmony
Project in 2001, which provides instruments and tuition-free
music lessons to thousands of children in Los Angeles who would
otherwise have no access to classical music. She acted after
observing Los Angeles gang members stop at a Hollywood market to
listen to a child playing Brahms on a small violin.  -- Michelle McIntyre-Brewer of Jefferson,  Maryland , a
military spouse and mother, founded Soldier’s List in 2003 to
support high risk service members and their families. The
organization has sent tens of thousands of care packages around
the world providing critical medical relief.  -- Roberto Perez of Miami is president of Alfalit, a
nonprofit organization fighting illiteracy from  Africa  to  South
America . Because of the efforts of Perez, an ordained Methodist
pastor who once counseled prison inmates and recovering
alcoholics, about 7 million people have learned to read in 22
countries in the Americas, Africa and  Europe .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  