-- 
Obama: Qaddafi’s Death Ends ‘Painful Chapter’ for Libya

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-10-20T21:13:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/obama-qaddafi-s-death-ends-painful-chapter-for-libya.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
death of deposed Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  marks the end of
a “long and painful chapter” for the people of Libya and gives
them the opportunity to determine their own destiny.  “Today we can definitively say that the Qaddafi regime has
come to an end,” Obama said in remarks in the White House  Rose
Garden . Speaking to the Libyan people, Obama said, “You have
won your revolution.”  Libya now must travel “a long and winding road to full
democracy,” he said, adding “there will be difficult days
ahead.”  Obama committed the U.S. to a NATO-led campaign in Libya in
March, a move that at the time drew criticism from some members
of Congress. He said today the demise of Qaddafi’s regime
vindicates his strategy of bringing together allies to meet the
objective of supporting the Libyan rebels without putting U.S.
troops on the ground. It also follows other U.S. successes
overseas, he said.  “This comes at a time when we see the strength of American
leadership across the world,” Obama said. “We’ve taken out al-
Qaeda leaders, and we’ve put them on the path to defeat. We’re
winding down the war in Iraq, and have begun a transition in
 Afghanistan .”  “And now, working in Libya with friends and allies, we’ve
demonstrated what collective action can achieve in the 21st
century,” he said.  Reports on Ground  Obama didn’t specifically confirm Qaddafi’s death, citing
reports by the Libyan government. White House press secretary
 Jay Carney  said the U.S. doesn’t have personnel on the ground to
make a direct assessment.  “We have confidence in the reports that Qaddafi is dead,”
Carney said in a briefing after the president spoke.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in Islamabad
today that Qaddafi’s demise “offers a new opportunity for Libya
to move forward.”  During a stop in Tripoli Oct. 18, Clinton urged the
transitional leadership and Libyans who supported the rebel
cause to refrain from vigilantism and to use the justice system,
not the streets, to deal with those accused of atrocities during
the eight-month rebellion.  Rebuilding Libya  Rebuilding Libya’s economy and political system likely will
take years, said  Anthony Cordesman , an analyst at the  Center for
Strategic and International Studies , a policy center in
 Washington . The path for Libya’s transitional government in
trying to unite tribes and build trust in government remains
difficult and the new leadership will need assistance, he said.  “People and leaders are important but Libya faces at least
half a decade of coming to grips with a lack of institutions,
effective governance,” Cordesman said. “It’s going to take a
lot of U.S. and international help and aid to ensure this
doesn’t turn into either failure or another authoritarian
government.”  Libya holds  Africa ’s largest proven crude oil reserves and
production was disrupted by the revolt that broke out in
February. The collapse in exports contributed to prices rallying
as much as 34 percent in  London  earlier this year. The
government has said it aims to restore production to about 1.7
million barrels a day within 15 months.  Crude oil for November delivery declined 81 cents to settle
at $85.30 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Missing Weapons  Clinton, who was the most senior U.S. official to visit
 Libya  since the revolt that dislodged Qaddafi after 42 years in
power, said in Tripoli that the U.S. would provide as much as
$10 million to help find and secure missing weapons, including
shoulder-fired missiles that can bring down aircraft.  The U.S. also will encourage development of industries
beyond oil and provide veterans of the conflict with medical
care and education, she said. To date, the U.S. has provided
more than $135 million in assistance to Libyan civilians and the
rebel council, according to State Department figures.  When the campaign got under way, Democrat Obama was
criticized by some Republicans in Congress for limiting the U.S.
military to an air support role for the Libyan rebels with NATO
running the campaign, while other lawmakers, including some
Democrats, questioned whether the U.S. should be involved at
all.  War Powers Debate  The White House on June 15 submitted a report to Congress
arguing that the War Powers Act doesn’t apply to the campaign
led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization because U.S.
forces are mainly providing a support role and aren’t engaged in
combat with hostile forces.  House Speaker  John Boehner  said at the time that the
administration’s rationale for committing the U.S. wasn’t
adequate and that it “doesn’t pass the straight-face test.”
The  Ohio  Republican said lawmakers would consider options
including denying funding for the U.S. mission.  The House ultimately refused to authorize continued U.S.
involvement while deciding against restricting funds.  A group of 10 lawmakers, including Democratic
Representative Dennis Kucinich of Ohio and Republican
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  -- who is seeking his party’s
presidential nomination -- filed a lawsuit claiming military
operations in Libya were illegal because Congress hadn’t
authorized funding or approved a declaration of war.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  ruled today that the
lawmakers failed to demonstrate that they had the right to sue
executive branch officials, either as members of Congress or as
taxpayers. The opinion made no reference to events in Libya.  Obama’s strategy avoided American casualties and, at a
price tag of $1.1 billion as of Sept. 30, cost less than three
days at the peak of the  Iraq  conflict, based on  data  from the
 Congressional Research Service . Still that surpassed estimates
sent to Congress earlier this year that the operations would
cost $800 million by that point.  “The president believes that the actions taken by his
administration and by NATO have helped the Libyan people reach
this day,” Carney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net 
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  