-- 
Libyan War Lawsuit Against Obama by 10 U.S. Lawmakers Thrown Out by Judge

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-20T22:27:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/obama-can-t-be-sued-by-lawmakers-alleging-war-powers-act-breach-over-libya.html
President  Barack Obama  can’t be sued
by 10 federal lawmakers who accused him of violating the War
Powers Act by ordering the attack on Libyan forces without
Congress’s approval, a judge said.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  ruled today that members
of the House of Representatives failed to demonstrate that they
had the right to sue executive branch officials, either as
members of Congress or as taxpayers. Walton said he was
“powerless to depart” from previous rulings by the  Supreme
Court  and the U.S. Court of Appeals in  Washington  that limit
such lawsuits.  “While there may conceivably be some political benefit in
suing the president and the secretary of defense, in light of
shrinking judicial budgets, scarce judicial resources, and a
heavy caseload, the court finds it frustrating to expend time
and effort adjudicating the re-litigation of settled questions
of law,” Walton said.  Walton noted that the lead plaintiff in the case, Ohio
Democrat Dennis Kucinich, was also the lead plaintiff in a case
that was rejected for the same reason nine years ago.  Military Operations  The House members, consisting of Democrats and Republicans,
filed their lawsuit in June, claiming military operations in
 Libya  were illegal because Congress hadn’t authorized funding or
approved a declaration of war.  Muammar Qaddafi , who ruled Libya for four decades, was
killed in his hometown of Sirte today, two months after a NATO-
backed uprising forced him from power.  “Judge Reggie Walton has refused to address the merits of
the constitutional claim of our case,” Kucinich and
Representative Walter Jones said in an e-mailed statement.
“This lawsuit is not just about checking executive power, but
also about securing the right of members of Congress to defend
the constitutionally required balance of power in court.”  The two said they would consult with the other plaintiffs
before deciding whether to appeal, according to the statement.  The case is Kucinich v. Obama, 11-01096, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 