-- 
Obama Says Qaddafi’s Ouster Vindicates Coalition-Based Action

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-10-21T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/obama-joins-allies-in-claiming-vindication-for-criticized-libya-strategy.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
death of  Muammar Qaddafi  is a vindication of his brand of
coalition-based global leadership as allied officials also
expressed satisfaction with the outcome in Libya.  Critics in Congress assailed the administration for
entering the conflict with NATO, describing it as “leading from
behind.” Others argued that the president didn’t have the right
to start a war without congressional approval. Administration
officials such as Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said that
the military campaign was “limited intervention,” not war.  Now, after almost eight months of coalition bombing runs
and financial and materiel support for the post-Qaddafi National
Transition Council, the U.S. mission to give Libyans a chance to
“determine their destiny” has succeeded, the president said.  “Without putting a single U.S. service member on the
ground, we achieved our objectives, and our NATO mission will
soon come to an end,” Obama said yesterday at the White House.  “We did exactly what we said we were going to do in
 Libya ,” Obama said. “ I think it underscores the capacity of
us to work together as an international community,” the
president said, adding that partnerships can make the U.S.
“even more effective.”  Obama, back in Washington a day after an early election
campaign bus tour, said Qaddafi’s fall was another display of
the strength of America’s global leadership during his tenure.  Obama’s Leadership  “We’ve taken our al-Qaeda leaders and we’ve put them on
the path to defeat,” Obama said. “We’re winding down the war
in  Iraq  and have begun a transition in Afghanistan. And now,
working in Libya with friends and allies, we’ve demonstrated
what collective action can achieve in the 21st century.”  Leaders from countries such as Britain and  France  echoed
Obama’s claims of victory and validation about the end of the
Libyan dictator’s 42-year turn on the international stage.  “Well I think we’ve felt vindicated all along,” British
Foreign Secretary William Hague said on the BBC yesterday. “The
real gamble,” he said, would have been to do nothing in March
when Qaddafi was threatening the rebel stronghold of Benghazi.  On  Canada ’s CBC television, Prime Minister Stephen Harper
declared that “Qaddafi’s days are over. Never again will he be
in a position to support terrorism or to turn guns on his own
people.”  NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said the
leader’s death showed that “NATO and our partners have
successfully implemented the historic mandate of the  United
Nations  to protect the people of Libya.”  Chavez Disagrees  The acclaim was not universal. In  Venezuela , President Hugo Chavez said Qaddafi was a “martyr” and a “great fighter”
whose death was an “assassination,” according to the Agence
France-Presse news agency. The Libyan leader awarded Chavez with
the “al Qaddafi International Human Rights” award in 2004.  Qaddafi’s death follows the flight of Tunisia’s President
Zine El Abidine Ben Ali from power on Jan. 14 after large-scale
protests. Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  was ousted in April
after three decades in power.  Egypt ’s interim ruling authority yesterday called on
Libya’s NTC to “turn over a new page” to rebuild the country
and offered assistance to its “Libyan brothers,” the semi-
official newspaper Al Ahram reported.  Obama, Harper, Hague and Rasmussen all said Qaddafi’s death
would mean the end of the NATO-led mission.  End of Mission  “We will terminate our mission in coordination with the
United Nations” and the NTC, Rasmussen said. With the reported
fall of Qaddafi-loyalist strongholds Bani Walid and Sirte,
“that moment has now moved much closer,” the NATO leader said.  Action in Libya was authorized by a UN resolution that
allowed NATO to take all necessary measures to protect
civilians. The step was taken after the Gulf Cooperation Council
and the  Arab League  asked the West for help in dealing with
Qaddafi’s assault on his own citizens.  Arab-American groups, including the Arab-American Anti-
Discrimination Committee, welcomed the start of a new era for
Libya. U.S. lawmakers in both parties reacted positively to the
news about Qaddafi.  Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who was his
party’s presidential candidate against Democrat Obama in 2008
and was an early advocate of intervention to help Libya’s
rebels, said the U.S. “must now deepen our support for the
Libyan people as they work to make the next phase of their
democratic revolution as successful as the fight to free their
country.”  Securing Libyan Weapons  Michigan Representative Mike Rogers, the Republican
chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence, said Qaddafi’s death closed an important chapter
for the families of those killed in 1988 by the bombing of Pan
Am flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, and warned about the
need to secure Libya’s chemical stockpile and conventional
weapons such as missiles that can bring down aircraft.  House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat,
praised the “strong action taken by the  United States , led by
President Obama, and NATO, the United Nations and the Arab
League proves the power of the world community working
together.”  Republican Critic  For some Republicans, including Senate Minority Whip Jon Kyl, an Arizona Republican, Obama’s handling of the Libya
situation fell short. Kyl told reporters yesterday that the
president “wanted to lead from behind and let others do the
job.”  Senator  Chris Coons , a Delaware Democrat and chairman of
the Foreign Relations subcommittee that oversees  Africa , said
the Libya campaign was “appropriately measured,” given fiscal
constraints and engagement in  Afghanistan  and Iraq.  The Democratic chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, Massachusetts Senator  John Kerry , said “it is
undeniable that the NATO campaign prevented a massacre” and
contributed to Qaddafi’s downfall without “suffering a single
American fatality.”  The praise contrasted with the tone of debates earlier
this year when Kerry’s committee rejected Obama’s argument that
involvement in Libya didn’t require congressional approval
because it didn’t constitute full-blown hostilities.  The 1973 War Powers Resolution demands congressional
authorization within 60 days of first military strikes.  An April 1 Justice Department memo said Obama had the
constitutional authority to use military force in Libya because
he could “reasonably determine” intervention was in the
national interest.  Yesterday, U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  ruled that
members of the  House of Representatives  who had said Obama
violated the War Powers Act in Libya had failed to demonstrate
that they had the right to sue executive branch officials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  