-- 
Mobile Phones Don’t Raise Risk of Brain Cancer, 18-Year Danish Study Says

-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 
2011-10-20T22:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/mobile-phones-don-t-raise-brain-tumor-risk-danish-study-says.html
Mobile telephones don’t raise the
chance of developing central nervous system cancers, according
to a study of Danish mobile-phone subscribers published today in
the  British Medical Journal .  The study examined reports from  Denmark ’s centralized
cancer registry and subscriber records from mobile-phone
networks for 358,403 Danes aged at least 30 from 1990 to 2007.
It found no higher incidence of brain tumors or any other
cancers in the people studied.  “We didn’t find a higher risk for people subscribing for a
mobile phone in the adult population,” said Patrizia Frei, a
postdoctoral research fellow at the Swiss Tropical and Public
Health Institute in Basel, who led the study while at the
 Institute of Cancer Epidemiology in Copenhagen , in an interview.  The research is the largest of its type and used data that
was already available, instead of retrospectively interviewing
phone subscribers whose recall could be selective or unreliable,
the scientists said. The findings may help clarify previous
research into the link between mobile phones and brain tumors,
which the authors said has been inconclusive and, in some cases,
criticized for being biased or prone to error.  The International Agency for Research on Cancer, part of
the Geneva-based  World Health Organization , said in June that
mobile phones may cause  brain cancer . A month later, the
International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection’s
committee on epidemiology undermined those findings, saying that
using the technology may not increase the risk of tumors after
reviewing studies from several countries.  Electromagnetic Fields  More than 5 billion mobile-phone subscriptions are held
worldwide, according to the International Telecommunication
Union. Concerns have arisen over whether exposing the brain to
radiofrequency electromagnetic fields emitted by mobile phones
leads to cancer. The IARC said the fields were “possibly”
carcinogenic, the same category as  diesel fuel  and chloroform.  A weakness in the Danish study was that it used data about
people who had a mobile-phone contract and excluded corporate
accounts. Some non-users of phones may have been counted among
the subscribers and some heavy users may not have been included
in the study population, wrote  Anders Ahlbom , a professor at the
Karolinska Institute in  Stockholm  in an accompanying  editorial .  “The absence of a trend in the incidence of brain tumors
in national statistics is reassuring,” Ahlbom wrote.
“Continued monitoring of health registers and prospective
cohorts is warranted.”  The research was funded by the Danish Strategic Research
Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  