-- 
Lockhart Says U.S. Sees Importance of Fiscal Balancing

-- B y   D a v i d   B e a s l e y   a n d   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-10-20T19:12:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/lockhart-says-u-s-finally-sees-importance-of-fiscal-balancing.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said the U.S. is starting to recognize
the significance of finding a solution to its fiscal woes.  “We are at least now beginning to engage in what the
country has to do,” Lockhart said during a panel discussion
today in Atlanta.  Lockhart, who votes on the  Federal Open Market Committee 
next year, was moderating a panel before 80 people at a World
Affairs Council of Atlanta event titled “American Economy in
Crisis: How Should We Respond?” Lockhart said he planned to
moderate the talk without “actually saying anything” as a
policy maker.  The event was held at the Commerce Club of Atlanta and also
featured speakers David M. Walker, a former U.S. comptroller
general, and William H. Rogers Jr., president and chief
executive officer of SunTrust Banks Inc.  “The importance of fiscal balancing has definitely come on
the screen,” Lockhart said.  The panel discussion covered a wide range of topics, from
the need for tax and regulatory reform to the need for young
voters to be more engaged since the U.S. debt burden affects
their generation.  ‘Crisis of Confidence’  Rogers said the slow economy is a result of “a crisis of
confidence,” by businesses and consumers, citing the partisan
politics that gripped Congress when it grappled with the debt
ceiling in August. The supercommittee charged with cutting the
 U.S. budget deficit  provides a chance to regain that confidence,
he said.  State and local governments won’t be able to count on the
federal government to supplement their budgets, Walker said.
Spending cuts by state and local governments “is something
we’re obviously watching closely,” Rogers said. “This is a
business that is fundamental to banking and one we are all
keeping a close eye on.”  Lending standards are tougher, which is not unusual in
coming out of a recession, Rogers said in response to a question
by Lockhart. Small businesses are still struggling and large
company lending business is being driven by consolidation and
mergers.  “There are loans being made,” Rogers said. “Banks want
to make loans. There is really only one way we make money is
that is we have to make loans. While the bar may be a little bit
higher, the door is wide open.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
David Beasley in Atlanta at 
 dbeasley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  