-- 
Oil Traders Admit to $20 Million of Kickbacks to Ex-LyondellBasell Workeer

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-10-20T20:13:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/oil-traders-admit-to-20-million-of-kickbacks-to-ex-lyondellbasell-worker.html
Two oil traders pleaded guilty to
paying more than $20 million in kickbacks to a former
LyondellBasell Industries NV executive who scheduled oil
shipments for the company’s Houston refinery.  Traders Bernard Langley, 54, of the U.K., and Clyde
Meltzer, 65, of Houston and Livingston,  New Jersey , said in
federal court in Houston that they paid the kickbacks to
LyondellBasell’s Jonathan Barnes, according to a statement by
the U.S. attorney’s office. Barnes agreed to pay above-market
shipping rates to tanker companies controlled by the two traders
to transport Venezuelan  crude oil  to Houston, in exchange for
one-third of the profits the traders received, prosecutors said.  “From 2007 through late 2009, when new management at
Lyondell discovered the overcharges, Langley and Meltzer used
Swiss bank accounts to pay Barnes more than $20 million in
kickbacks,’’ Houston U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson said in the
statement.  Langley and Meltzer agreed to forfeit more than
$20 million in assets, including cash from bank accounts in
Switzerland and Monoco, luxury and classic cars, jewelry, real
estate in  Texas  and  Florida , and their investment in a Houston
sports bar, according to Magidson.  Langley and Meltzer could be sentenced to as much as 20
years in prison and ordered to pay restitution of as much as
$57 million when they are sentenced in January, according to
Magidson’s statement. The two men have been in federal custody
since December, when both were arrested in Houston after a
recorded meeting with Barnes.  Barnes Pleaded Guilty  Barnes was indicted in November of last year and has been
cooperating with prosecutors. He pleaded guilty to his role in
the scheme in March, according to court records.  “We found a problem, we reported it, and we worked closely
with the U.S. attorney’s office in Houston to identify what had
happened,”  David Harpole , a spokesman for Rotterdam-based
LyondellBasell, said in a phone interview today. He said the
company discovered the kickbacks when an internal audit “raised
questions about certain marine charter payments that were
outside the norms.’’  The case is U.S. v. Barnes, H-10-787-S, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  