-- 
Oil-Tanker Returns Are Positive for First Time in Eight Weeks

-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 
2011-10-20T16:49:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/oil-tanker-returns-are-positive-for-first-time-in-eight-weeks.html
Returns for tankers hauling 2
million-barrel cargoes of crude oil on the industry’s benchmark
route turned positive for the first time in almost eight weeks
as a glut of ships shrank.  Daily rental income for very large crude carriers, or
VLCCs, on the Saudi Arabia-to-Japan voyage strengthened to
$1,317 from minus $215 yesterday, data from the London-based
Baltic Exchange showed. It calculates returns without adjusting
for potential speed cuts to save on fuel costs. Returns had been
negative as of Aug. 26.  “Earnings are rising for VLCCs as the tiny bit of better
sentiment from the beginning of the week manages to take hold,”
Ben Goggin, a London-based freight-derivatives broker at SSY
Futures Ltd., a unit of the world’s second-biggest shipbroker,
said by e-mail.  Returns first turned negative on Aug. 1 as a surplus of
available VLCCs in the  Persian Gulf  overwhelmed demand. The
excess dwindled this week, spurring vessel owners to seek higher
returns, said Goggin. Charter costs for VLCCs on the benchmark
route increased for an eighth session today, the longest streak
since February.  Hire rates increased 2.6 percent to 49.56 Worldscale
points, the highest level since July 26, according to the
exchange. That extended the current run of advances to 20
percent.  Fuel Prices  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in London to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  Returns for suezmax tankers in the  Mediterranean Sea 
advanced for a fourth day as delays navigating  Turkey ’s Bosporus
strait continued to curb vessel availability. Daily income from
the ships, each able to haul 1 million barrels of crude,
advanced 0.7 percent to $58,995, according to the exchange.  Vessels must wait five days to transit the Turkish Straits,
connecting the Black and Aegean seas, when heading north or two
days for voyages south, shipping-information provider Gulf
Agency Co. said today.  The price of ship fuel, or bunkers, climbed 30 percent from
the start of the year to $659.02 a metric ton, data compiled by
Bloomberg from 25 ports worldwide showed.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a measure of shipping crude
that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs, increased 1.5 percent
to 856, the exchange said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in  London  at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  