-- 
Olsen Sister Flees Sadistic Cult; Nuns Cheer Hoop Stars: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-10-20T02:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/olsen-sister-flees-sadistic-cult-nuns-cheer-basketball-stars-rick-warner.html
Elizabeth Olsen, the younger sister
of celebrity twins Mary-Kate and Ashley, makes a stunning film
debut in “ Martha Marcy May Marlene ” as a cult survivor
struggling to adjust to mainstream life.  The 22-year-old senior at  New York  University’s  Tisch
School of the Arts  has already completed five movies, but
“Martha Marcy” is the first to be released.  The doe-eyed actress gives a mature, nuanced performance as
Martha, who escapes from a cult in upstate New York and finds
refuge with her estranged sister Lucy (Sarah Paulson) and her
husband Ted (Hugh Dancy) at their posh lakeside vacation home in
Connecticut.  The first feature by writer/director Sean Durkin is a dark
journey into the mind of a young woman who has been physically
and psychologically abused by a charismatic cult leader, played
with chilling intensity by John Hawkes (“Winter’s Bone”).  Martha is so traumatized by the experience that she shuts
down emotionally and can’t even tell her sister and brother-in-
law what happened to her. The couple becomes increasingly
frustrated by Martha’s eccentric behavior -- she climbs into bed
with them while they’re having sex -- and the tension leads to
ugly arguments and accusations.  Manson Murders  The film, whose title refers to Martha’s various aliases,
alternates between scenes in  Connecticut  and flashbacks to her
time at the cult’s farm, where Patrick treats the women as a
harem and makes them complicit in his rape of newcomers.  Durkin generally steers clear of sensationalism, preferring
to show the subtle ways that a cult leader can control his
flock. However, there is one terrifying scene that brings back
memories of the Manson Family’s murderous rampage in 1969.  Durkin uses inventive lighting, editing and music to
underscore the pervasive gloom. Toward the end, Martha
experiences what seem to be paranoid delusions and agrees to get
psychological treatment.  But there’s one more shock to come -- an ending that leaves
more questions than answers in this unforgettable film.  “Martha Marcy May Marlene,” from  Fox Searchlight
Pictures , opens tomorrow in New York and  Los Angeles . Rating:
***1/2  ‘The Mighty Macs’  “ The Mighty Macs ” is a female version of “Hoosiers,”
the true tale of an underdog basketball team from a tiny school
that becomes a champion under the leadership of a hard-driving
but caring coach.  Hokeyness aside, “The Mighty Macs” is an enjoyable movie
with special appeal to women who grew up in an era when female
athletes had few opportunities to showcase their skills.  The film begins in the early 1970s when Cathy Rush takes
over as coach of Immaculata College, an all-girls school near
Philadelphia with serious financial problems. The team has no
gym, no uniforms and one beat-up basketball.  Rush, engagingly played by Carla Gugino, quickly turns the
school’s ragtag squad into contenders with her constant
preaching about fundamentals and team play. She even overcomes
the resistance of the icy Mother Superior (Ellen Burstyn) and
recruits a feisty young nun (Marley Shelton) as her assistant.  The script pretty much sticks to the formula for
inspirational sports movies: corny speeches, improbable
victories and a star player who almost leaves the team. But
writer/director Tim Chambers, a veteran entertainment executive,
pulls it off with likable characters and a cozy, low-budget
vibe.  Rush, then married to an NBA referee, led Immaculata to
three straight collegiate championships and was inducted into
the  Basketball Hall of Fame  in 2008. The film is a warmhearted
tribute to this hoops pioneer.  “The Mighty Macs,” from Quaker Media, opens tomorrow
across the U.S. Rating: **1/2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 