-- 
Olympus Valued 37% Less Than Medical Unit Seen Luring Drug Firms: Real M&A

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a ,   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-10-20T07:50:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/olympus-37-less-than-medical-unit-seen-luring-bidders-real-m-a.html
Olympus Corp. (7733)  is so battered after
ousting its first non-Japanese president that potential
acquirers could snap up the entire company for 37 percent less
than the value of its medical-equipment business alone.  The Tokyo-based maker of endoscopes and cameras plunged 47
percent, the biggest drop in at least 37 years, since President
Michael C. Woodford was fired by the board last week after
calling for a probe of company payments made to advisers. The
slump left Olympus with a market capitalization of $4.9 billion
yesterday, $2.9 billion less than the value of its medical unit,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and BGC Partners Inc.  While Olympus owes more money than 98 percent of  Japan ’s
biggest companies versus common equity and camera revenue
tumbled in the past three years, it still sells three times as
many endoscopes as all its competitors combined, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Further declines in the stock may now attract
bidders from  Canon Inc. (7751)  to  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , Harris Associates
LP and BGC Partners said.  “The endoscope business is the jewel for Olympus,” said
 Koichi Ogawa , chief portfolio manager at Daiwa SB Investments
Ltd. in Tokyo, which manages about $28 billion in assets. “The
company is attractive to many companies who want to start or
expand their medical-equipment business.”  ‘Gastrocamera’  Yoshiaki Yamada, a spokesman for Olympus, declined to
comment on whether it has been approached by potential bidders
or is considering spinning off its medical devices unit.  Founded in 1919 as a microscope and thermometer business,
Olympus produced its first camera in 1936 and its first
“ gastrocamera ,” a predecessor to the modern-day endoscope, in
1950, according to the company’s website.  Worth about $12 billion four years ago, Olympus lost more
than $4 billion of its market value in the past five days after
Woodford was fired and released a PricewaterhouseCoopers report
which said the company may face regulatory and legal scrutiny
because of payments made to advisers in the acquisition of Gyrus
Group Plc in 2008.  Potential offenses may include false accounting, financial
assistance and breaches of duties by the board, according to the
Oct. 11 report that Woodford provided to Bloomberg News.  Olympus, which said the report included “assumptions” and
“speculation” and is misleading, dismissed the 51-year-old
British citizen because he bypassed unit managers to give orders
directly to employees and “wouldn’t listen,” according to 70-
year-old Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa.  Endoscope Demand  Olympus said yesterday it paid $687 million in fees to
advisers for its $2 billion purchase of Gyrus, almost double the
30 billion yen ($391 million) Kikukawa disclosed a day earlier.  “There’s a huge leadership vacuum,” said David Herro,
chief investment officer of international equities at Harris,
which owns 10.9 million Olympus shares. “There’s a strong
possibility that someone might try to take over the company.”  Harris, the seventh largest shareholder in Olympus, has
written to the company’s board requesting an independent probe
and additional information, according to Herro. The letter was
also sent to the chief executive officer of the  Tokyo  Stock
Exchange.  Olympus, valued at 2,482 yen a share before Woodford was
fired, ended yesterday at 1,389 yen. The shares fell another 4.9
percent, to 1,321 yen, today.  Relative Value  The swoon is creating an opportunity for companies that may
have already been interested in pursuing Olympus for its medical
business, according to Yukihiro Goto, a Tokyo-based analyst for
Macquarie Group Ltd.  While sales at Olympus’s camera unit have fallen by almost
50 percent in the last five fiscal years, revenue from medical
equipment has climbed almost a third in the same span, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The medical unit is now Olympus’s biggest business with 75
percent of the global endoscope market. Endoscopes are
instruments that doctors use to look inside the body cavity and
can help detect diseases such as colorectal cancer.  “Olympus is the company that practically started the
endoscope market,” Goto said. “It’s not a market where a user
would switch between products just because something is cheaper
or just because someone else has a brand power in another
product category.”  ‘Dysfunctional’  The division, more profitable than any other unit with an
operating margin of 19.5 percent, may be worth $7.8 billion,
according to Amir Anvarzadeh, Singapore-based manager for Asian
equity sales at BGC Partners.  Applying the price-sales ratio of 1.8 times for  Hoya Corp. (7741) ,
the world’s second-largest endoscope maker, would value
Olympus’s medical unit at $8.3 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  A group of five companies that Macquarie’s Goto identifies
as “global medical device makers with a focus on endoscope,”
including  Covidien Plc (COV) ,  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) , and  Smith &
Nephew Plc (SN/) , trade at a median of 2.01 times sales, according to
Bloomberg data. At that valuation the medical equipment business
would be worth $9.3 billion.  While there is a chance Olympus will be delisted, “the
more likely scenario is for Olympus to be bought out by another
firm,” Anvarzadeh wrote in an e-mail to clients yesterday.  Yuuki Sakurai, Tokyo-based president at Fukoku Capital
Management, says bidders may be reluctant to approach Olympus
because of its dispute with its former president and potential
accounting irregularities.  Potential Buyers  “I don’t think anyone dares to touch the company for the
moment,” he said. “You cannot invest carelessly in a company
where corporate governance seems dysfunctional. Yes, the stock
has tumbled, but is it really cheap?”  Any buyer would have to absorb Olympus’s $5.7 billion in
net debt. A takeover would then cost at least $10.6 billion, at
yesterday’s closing price. That’s equal to about 7 times
analysts’ estimates for next year’s earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  A deal that values Olympus’s equity at $7.8 billion, or
what BGC Partners says the medical-equipment unit is worth,
would then amount to 9.1 times Ebitda, the data show.  Still, that’s lower than the 15.4 times multiple that
Tokyo-based Hoya agreed to spend on Pentax Corp., another Tokyo-
based camera maker that produced endoscopes, in December 2006.  ‘Gets Taken Out’  J&J, the world’s second-largest seller of health-care
products,  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Siemens AG (SIE)  and Canon Inc. may be
interested, said Herro, who helps manage about $70 billion in
assets from  Chicago .  “An asset like this does not come up that often,” Herro
said. “People would want to get a hold of this thing.”  Other bidders may include Hoya, which has 14 percent of the
endoscope market,  Fujifilm Holdings Corp. (4901) , the third-biggest
maker of the medical instruments, and  Terumo Corp. (4543) , which
already owns 2.5 percent of Olympus, according to Anvarzadeh.  Representatives for the Japanese companies declined to
comment on whether they would consider acquiring Olympus, as did
their Tokyo-based counterparts at Siemens and GE. Carol Goodrich, a spokeswoman for  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J
also declined to comment.  “There’s a business that many people would want,” said
Herro. “At some point, this may be the result of what happens
here, it gets taken out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  