-- 
London Protesters May Close St Paul’s, Cathedral Leaders Say

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-10-20T12:11:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/london-protesters-may-close-st-paul-s-cathedral-leaders-say.html
St Paul’s Cathedral , Christopher
Wren’s 17th century masterpiece, may be forced to close as a
growing number of protesters against economic inequality fill
its churchyard and deter visitors, the church said.  “The increased scale and nature of the protest camp is
such that to act safely and responsibly the cathedral must now
review the extent to which it can remain open for the many
thousands coming this week as worshippers, visitors and in
school parties,” Graeme Knowles, the cathedral’s dean and seven
other leaders said in a  statement . “Is it now time for the
protest camp to leave? The consequences of a decision to close
St Paul’s cannot be taken lightly.”  Anti-Wall Street demonstrations began in  New York  last
month, with about 6,000 people gathering in Times Square for
what organizers called a “global day of action against Wall
Street greed” on Oct. 15. The protests then spread to Europe
and  Asia , with more than 100 people injured in  Rome  after as
many as 200,000 people gathered, the Corriere della Sera
newspaper reported.  “We’re trying to make sure our presence here doesn’t
disrupt their business,” said Catherine Garrity, a protester
who’s 26-year-old self-employed artist from London. “The
statement they made, I think, is very carefully worded; they are
pointing out there’s been a huge influx of people in this area
which will cause logistical issues.”  ‘Cups of Tea’  Demonstrators gathered in London from Oct. 15, pitching
about 100 tents in the square surrounding the cathedral. The
group, calling itself  Occupy London Stock Exchange , was blocked
by police from approaching the LSE, which is about 100 yards
from the campsite.  The police presence may have harmed the church’s revenue
from visitors during the weekend, Garrity said. Protesters have
kept away from exits and from the cathedral steps, she said,
while police have talked with the campers and visited their
kitchen for cups of tea.  “St Paul’s Cathedral stated on Monday that it was still
trying to provide worship and welcome to all in spite of the
presence of the protest camp in the churchyard,” the church
statement said.  “St Paul’s asked everyone to respect this need and to
acknowledge the risk to the life of the cathedral posed by the
current situation.”  The  London  demonstrators said on Monday that they opposed
bailing out banks, public expenditure cuts, arms dealing,
corporate profits, global oppression and war, while supporting
genuinely independent regulators and “authentic” global
equality.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  