-- 
Ontario Fund Says Rules Uncertainty Spurs Market Paralysis

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-10-20T17:44:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/ontario-fund-says-rules-uncertainty-spurs-market-paralysis-1-.html
New market regulations have confused
and stymied pension funds and other investors, said Jim Leech,
chief executive officer of the  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan .  “There’s a lot of paralysis out there, and it’s a
paralysis of uncertainty,” Leech said today during a conference
in Toronto held by the Global Risk Institute. Such burdensome
and “unnecessarily complex” proposed rule-making “slows an
institution’s ability to be nimble just at a time when they need
it.”  Financial firms worldwide face tougher regulations designed
to reduce the danger of another global financial crisis after
the 2008 failures of Bear Stearns Cos. and Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  has
added new global rules, and countries such as the U.S. have
passed their own laws such as last year’s Dodd-Frank Act to
curtail activities of financial firms.  “Right now it’s a question of what are these rules going
to be,” Leech told reporters after the event. “There are lots
of questions and not a lot of answers.”  The lack of clarity on the next wave of market regulation
is compounded by uncertainty in the economy, Leech said.  “You’ve just got one uncertainty upon another, upon
another, upon another, and it causes a lot of market
participants to be frozen,” he said.  Yesterday, BlackRock Inc. CEO Laurence D. Fink said a
crisis of “confidence” has prompted clients to delay
investment decisions. The New York-based firm said its new
business pipeline of $65.2 billion will shrink because one
institutional investor plans to end a $36 billion assignment and
manage it internally to cut costs.  Ontario Teachers’, with C$107.5 billion ($105.5 billion) in
assets, is responsible for investing and managing pensions for
about 295,000 active and retired teachers in  Canada ’s most
populous province.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  