-- 
More Money Than Brains Leads to ‘Olympus Shock’: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-10-20T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/more-money-than-brains-leads-to-olympus-shock-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
Master of Business Administration
programs the world over should add a new course: Olympus 101.
For budding business magnates, it would be a timely exercise
into how not to handle a crisis, run a major company or manage
the third-biggest economy.  It says a lot when world-weary investors hardened by the
shenanigans at Enron Corp., WorldCom Inc., Parmalat SpA and  Wall
Street  are aghast at a corporate scandal. The Einsteins at
Olympus Corp., the camera and medical-supplies maker, pulled off
that feat and more in a week that can’t end soon enough for
Japanese politicians and executives.  This still-unfolding story has it all: a proud company
founded in 1919; the firing of a foreign president brought in to
shake things up in ways a local wouldn’t; a very un-Japanese
bout of public infighting; a whiff of possible yakuza
involvement; bundles of squandered cash; clueless executives; a
media frenzy; and regulators hoping the whole thing goes away.  The real intrigue has yet to come. What, if anything, will
Japan do? In an ideal world, the answer is simple: The Olympus
board would be fired and regulators would investigate this
shameful affair with vigor, openness and sincerity to restore
global confidence in  Japan  Inc.  The chronology began with Michael Woodford, Olympus’s first
non-Japanese president, being dismissed after seven months on
the job for the bogus charge of cultural insensitivity. Next,
Olympus denied Woodford’s claim that he was axed for
investigating why a fortune was spent on outside advisers
without explanation. Then, Olympus suddenly recalled that, oh
yeah, that’s right, it paid a whopping $687 million to advisers
on its $2 billion purchase of Gyrus Group Plc. Now the company
says it’s no big deal.  Internal Probe  The only case in which that could possibly be true, as
 Curtis Freeze , founder of Honolulu-based Prospect Asset
Management Inc. put it, is when a company “has more money than
brains.” Really, I’d feel better investing with  Bernie Madoff 
or the Marx Brothers than Olympus’s board. In a delicious bit of
irony, Olympus Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa on Monday will give a
speech on “Global Social Responsibility from Japan to the
World.” As if he has anything edifying to offer.  This is symptomatic of what ails Japan and comes on top of
a dismal year  that has included a deadly earthquake and a
tsunami; an endless radiation crisis; credit downgrades;
deepening deflation; a surging yen that’s cramping exporters and
a fifth prime minister since the Lehman Brothers shock of 2008.
And now an “Olympus shock,” to quote Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
strategist Kathy Matsui, reminds markets of Japan’s
institutional failings.  This episode is about to get more attention. Nippon Life
Insurance Co., the largest Olympus shareholder, and Harris
Associates LP, are demanding answers after the dismissal of
Woodford prompted a plunge of more than 45 percent in the stock
price. FACTA magazine alleged that some Olympus payments may
have gone to “anti-social” elements, a euphemism for organized
crime.  When I travel and speak overseas, there is a troubling lack
of interest in Japan. Audiences are at full attention when talk
turns to  China ,  India  or  Thailand . Mention Japan, and out come
the BlackBerrys.  At a time when many are predisposed to tune out Japan,
officials in Tokyo need to work harder and smarter. The same
holds for corporations. A few are actually trying.  At a  Bloomberg Link  conference this week in Tokyo, Takeshi Niinami, the chief executive officer of convenience-store
operator Lawson Inc.，made a strong case. The 52-year-old talked
of growth, expanding into China, free trade and the need for
reform in corporate governance. It was the view of a New Japan
that investors crave. But that’s the long-term perspective. More
immediately, all anyone wants to talk about is Olympus and its
widening fallout.  Culture of Denial  Japan’s corporate culture of denial, of ignoring problems
and letting them fester, keeps running up against a globalized
world that values agility, innovation and transparency. Olympus
demonstrates all too painfully how much Old Japan tolerates a
lack of accountability among senior executives; inadequate
disclosure; a disinclination to challenge authority and absolute
deference to corporate boards regardless of share performance.  The inadequacies of Japan’s corporate-governance system
deserve scrutiny. Boards in Japan get less heat, partly because
executives aren’t paid as obscenely as American ones.
Shareholders assume directors are smart, devoted people working
for the good of Japan Inc. Tough questions are rarely asked.  Yet what can we make of Olympus’s board dismissing a
PricewaterhouseCoopers report on how vast sums of cash were
blown during acquisitions? The board seemed more upset about
Woodford studying the books than PwC’s findings. A few
independent, outside directors might have led to a better result
for Olympus and Woodford.  There’s a punch line somewhere in here, but it’s hardly a
joking matter: The company may sue Woodford for leaking internal
information to the press. If there’s any justice, securities
regulators will ask Chairman Kikukawa and the rest of his board
some very uncomfortable questions. The answers might reveal
whether brains even come into play at Olympus.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  