-- 
Mortgage Rates in U.S. Little Changed Near Lowest on Record

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-10-20T14:59:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/mortgage-rates-in-u-s-little-changed-near-lowest-on-record.html
U.S.  mortgage rates  were little
changed, keeping borrowing costs close to the lowest level on
record as demand for home loans slumps.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan declined to 4.11
percent in the week ended today from 4.12 percent,  Freddie Mac 
said in a statement today. The average 15-year rate increased to
3.38 percent from 3.37 percent, according to the McLean,
Virginia-based mortgage-finance company. The longer-term lending
rate fell to 3.94 percent two weeks ago, the lowest level in
Freddie Mac records dating back to 1971.  Americans remain cautious about buying homes as property
values decline, lenders tighten credit and the jobless rate
sticks above 9 percent. Mortgage applications dropped 15 percent
in the period week Oct. 14, the biggest decline this year,
according to a Mortgage Bankers Association index. A gauge of
refinancing tumbled 17 percent and the purchasing measure fell
8.8 percent, the most in two months.  “If you look at mortgage applications, the low  interest
rates  have done nothing to stimulate housing,” said  Patrick Newport , an economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,
 Massachusetts . “The single-family home market is stuck at the
bottom.”  Sales of previously owned homes fell 3 percent to a 4.91
million annual rate in September, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed today. The median price declined
3.5 percent from a year earlier. Transactions involving
financially distressed properties -- comprising foreclosures and
short sales, where the price is less than the loan balance --
accounted for 30 percent of the total.  Housing Starts  Builders began work on more U.S. homes than forecast in
September, largely because of a surge in construction of
apartments and other multifamily dwellings, Commerce Department
data showed yesterday. Single-family housing starts climbed 1.7
percent from the previous month while work on multifamily homes
surged 51 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 1500 Homebuilding Index rose the most
in two years on Oct. 18 after a measure of developer sentiment
unexpectedly increased to its highest level since May 2010. The
National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index climbed
to 18 in October from 14 the previous month, the Washington-
based group showed. Readings below 50 mean more respondents said
conditions were poor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  