-- 
Palestinian Leader Says Time ‘Not Ripe’ for Mideast Peace Talks

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-10-20T05:47:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/palestinian-leader-says-time-not-ripe-for-mideast-peace-talks.html
Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad said there is little chance for a prompt renewal of peace
negotiations between Palestinians and Israelis that the Obama
administration seeks.  “My own assessment” is that “conditions are not ripe at
this juncture for a meaningful resumption of talks,” Fayyad
told a Washington audience yesterday.  He made his remarks as the U.S. and its allies in the so-
called Quartet -- the  United Nations , the European Union and
 Russia  -- are trying to restart talks between the two sides to
head off a Palestinian push for statehood recognition at the UN.  Quartet envoys will hold separate meetings in  Jerusalem 
with Israelis and Palestinians on Oct. 26 to discuss ways to
restart the talks, State Department spokesman Mark Toner
announced on Oct. 18. Those meetings would occur three days
after a self-imposed deadline the Quartet set on Sept. 23 for
initial talks “between the parties.”  The Quartet talks have been spurred by a U.S. desire to
circumvent the Palestinian effort at the UN, which it opposes.
Fayyad acknowledged the friction this has caused, expressing
disappointment with the failure of U.S.-brokered peace talks
that led to the Palestinian bid at the UN.  “Our relations with the  United States  are going through a
period of strain, if I may be frank in characterizing them,
against the recent backdrop of activities involving the United
Nations,” Fayyad said at a gala held by the  American Task Force
on Palestine , a non-profit group that advocates for a peaceful
solution to the conflict.  A Shared Conviction  Fayyad said that, while Palestinian leaders are committed
to a negotiated settlement, the Palestinian people have watched
negotiations continue “for nearly 15 years without any signs of
productivity or promise of success anytime soon.”  That has led to “disappointment and indeed
disillusionment” that U.S.-brokered talks can produce “an end
to the Israeli occupation that began in 1967 and, for us
Palestinians, at long last to have that opportunity to live as
free people,” Fayyad said.  The Obama administration made improving relations with the
Arab world and ending the Israeli-Palestinian conflict a
cornerstone of its foreign policy. Peace talks began in
September 2010 and quickly foundered when Palestinian leader
 Mahmoud Abbas  insisted  Israel  freeze construction of Jewish
settlements in the West Bank before talks could continue.
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  rejected the demand.  ‘Some Concerns’  Israel earlier this month accepted the Quartet initiative.
Netanyahu said Oct. 2 that “Israel has some concerns” and
called on the  Palestinian Authority  to “enter into direct
negotiations without delay.”  Nabil Shaath , an adviser to Palestinian Authority President
Mahmoud Abbas, said Israel must freeze settlement construction
and accept the West Bank’s pre-1967 boundaries before talks can
resume.  Fayyad said Israel’s settlements and its lack of specific
concessions must be addressed for any talks to succeed. He
questioned, for example, what Netanyahu means when he talks
about a Palestinian state.  Fayyad also said the political process does little to
address Israeli actions that harm chances for a viable two-state
solution. He mentioned the Israeli decision to build 2,610 new
housing units south of east Jerusalem in a way that cuts it off
from the rest of the  West Bank .  “Actions on the ground continue to take place on the
Israeli side in a manner that is inconsistent with the shared
objective of a Palestinian state,” Fayyad said.  The efforts to cut Palestinians off from Jerusalem, which
both sides claim as their capital, won’t work, Fayyad said.
“There is not going to be a solution that is acceptable to
Palestinians that does not include east Jerusalem as a
capital,” he said.  He warned that if Israeli settlement construction subverts
the possibility for a two-state solution, the Palestinians may
give up on that goal and shift their attention to a “struggle
for equal  voting rights .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Mark
Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  