-- 
Papandreou Prevails in Greek Austerity Vote as Unrest Kills One Protester

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-10-21T08:18:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/papandreou-wins-second-vote-on-austerity-measure-boosting-chances-of-aid.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won a parliamentary vote on a new round of austerity
designed to secure more financial aid, risking further unrest
that left one person dead after protests turned violent.  Athens  was left to clean up today after protestors clashed
with police during a 48-hour strike in the run-up to the vote
late yesterday. Papandreou secured the backing of a majority of
lawmakers in the 300-seat chamber for the bill as European
leaders announced a second summit for Oct. 26 to give them more
time to work on a “global and ambitious” strategy to combat
the sovereign debt crisis that is roiling global markets.  “From Greece’s perspective they’ve done everything they
need to do,” Marchel Alexandrovich, an economist at Jefferies
International in  London , said in a Bloomberg Television
interview with Francine Lacqua. Greece “will probably get its
money in the near term, but longer term obviously lots of
question marks remain.”  Strikes flared up again today as workers continued to
protest government plans for further job layoffs and wage cuts.
Municipal workers called another 24-hour walkout and planned to
hold a rally in central Athens, defying government attempts to
order garbage collectors back to work.  Tax collectors, Finance Ministry employees and some doctors
remain on strike, while Greek seamen called a third 48-hour
strike in a move that may cause disruptions to food and medical
supplies to Greece’s islands, the Athens News Agency reported.  Running Battles  The parliamentary vote capped a day in which hooded
protesters in gas masks fought running battles with riot police
firing tear-gas rounds outside the parliament building on the
capital’s Syntagma Square. A 53-year-old construction worker
died of cardiac arrest after a rock hit him on the head, the
government said.  Ringed by a cordon of police, lawmakers debated the second
round of austerity measures in four months that are necessary to
secure the next tranche of international aid to stave off
default and win any reduction in  Greece ’s debt burden.  The package comprises new tax increases, fresh cuts to
pensions and wages and plans to dismiss 30,000 state workers.
Drawing particular fire from unions is an aspect of the
legislation which suspends the power of unions to impose wages
and work rules through collective labor agreements.  Lawmaker Expelled  Greek ruling party lawmaker Louka Katseli, a former labor
minister in Papandreou’s government, voted against the article
and was subsequently expelled from the party, whittling down
Papandreou’s four-seat majority. He won the ballot by 154 votes
to 144 against.  The vote “was something more” than an issue of party
discipline, Papandreou said in an open letter expelling her from
his Pasok party. “It was an issue of national responsibility.
For the critical negotiations that we face in the next few days
to secure the sixth tranche and ensure the financing of our
immediate fiscal needs.”  The urgency was underlined by the latest report by outside
assessors on Greece’s finances that recommended paying the next
installment of bailout money to Greece “as soon as possible”
after the government makes good on its austerity pledges.  While the Greek government has made “important progress,”
the country’s debt dynamics remain “worrying,” according to
the report by the so-called troika of inspectors from the
European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and  International
Monetary Fund .  ‘No Miracles’  “We must tell Greeks the truth,” Greek Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos said in a speech to parliament in comments
broadcast live. “There are no miracles. The country won’t be
saved by some miracle. The miracle will be the result of hard
work.”  Outside, police said about 50,000 people marched through
central Athens to protest the austerity bill. At one point,
group of about 200 hooded youths threw stones and Molotov
cocktails at demonstrators from the Communist Party of Greece-
backed PAME labor union. People with head wounds were treated at
a first-aid station in Syntagma Square.  A crane removed the burnt-out wreck of a ticketing booth
from the square today as the clean-up resumed. Tear gas lingered
in the air between the parliament and the Grande Bretagne Hotel
where many of the clashes took place. The hotel’s marble steps,
chipped away and used as projectiles, looked like they had been
gnawed by a giant rat.  City Damage  Athens Mayor George Kaminis demanded that the government
compensate the capital for damage caused to city property during
the strike. He’s still awaiting a response to a previous request
for damages caused by riots in June, when the first austerity
package was passed, he said in an interview on state-run NET TV.  The IMF is watching the Greek protests closely and “with
concern,” spokesman Gerry Rice told reporters in  Washington .
“We understand that this is a very difficult time for the
people of Greece, and times of crisis are always difficult,
especially if people perceive that changes that need to be made
are unfair.”  Two years after the debt crisis came to light in Greece,
Papandreou is courting social unrest that risks boiling over as
he pushes the additional austerity through.  Successive rounds of tax increases and cuts to wages and
pensions have deepened a recession now in its fourth year, with
the  Greek economy  set to contract 5.5 percent this year and 2.5
percent next, according to the 2012 budget. The  unemployment
rate  reached 16.5 percent in July, data released Oct. 18 by the
Hellenic Statistical Authority showed. That’s more than double
the 7 percent that month in  Germany , the biggest contributor to
euro-area bailouts including for Greece.  “The adjustment pressure on the economy from the package
is so great that the risk of protests intensifying further are
high,” Martin Blum, co-head of asset management at Ithuba
Capital in Vienna, said in a statement. “The risk is that the
package is mission impossible economically and politically
unless the EU makes concessions in addition to reducing the debt
burden.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  