-- 
Pennsylvania’s Seizure of Harrisburg Finances Opens Door to Creditor Talks

-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-10-20T17:23:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/pennsylvania-s-seizure-of-harrisburg-finances-opens-door-to-creditor-talks.html
Pennsylvania  Governor Tom Corbett is
planning to seize control of Harrisburg’s finances even as City
Council members seek bankruptcy for the capital in an effort to
ward off state action.  Legislators yesterday empowered the Republican governor to
appoint a receiver who will be able to overrule elected
officials, a first for the state. After Corbett, who signed the
bill today, declares a fiscal emergency, the city would have 30
days to pass a state-approved recovery plan before he may
install the manager. The governor may make the declaration next
week, Kelli Roberts, a Corbett spokeswoman, said today.  Last week, a divided council authorized a bankruptcy
filing, the first for a U.S. capital in at least 40 years, after
the city skipped payments on debt tied to a trash-to-energy
incinerator project. The state and Mayor  Linda Thompson , a
Democrat, have challenged the filing, and a judge will consider
its fate Nov. 23.  “Our plan is to proceed as if the bankruptcy filing would
be found illegal, the fiscal emergency will be declared and a
receiver will be named,” Kevin Harley, a spokesman for Corbett,
said in an interview yesterday.  Soothing Markets  The receivership law shows that Pennsylvania is moving
quickly to stem municipal-bond market worries, said James J. Holman, a bankruptcy lawyer at Duane Morris LLP in Philadelphia.
Holman, who isn’t connected to the case, called the legislation
a “bold move.”  “Every day that passes by without decisive action by the
state before Nov. 23, it creates that very uncertainty that
people are worried about,” Holman said in a telephone call.  Corbett, in a statement today, said the state had to move.  “I remain a strong proponent for municipal governments
tackling their own problems,” said Corbett. “But when that
fails to happen, the state has to take action to ensure public
safety.”  The prospect of a takeover and the hearing may set the
stage for a deal, said Alan Schankel, director of fixed-income
research at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  “Ultimately, this is a ploy,” he said of the filing.
“Bankruptcy isn’t the end game.”  Schankel said, “I wouldn’t be surprised” if a settlement
were struck before the hearing.  The city of 49,500 faces debt five times its general-fund
budget because of an overhaul and expansion of the incinerator,
which doesn’t generate enough revenue to cover the obligations.  In Too Deep  The council had rejected proposals by state consultants and
Thompson that would have sold assets to repay creditors and
raised property taxes on residents, 29 percent of whom live in
poverty. The city owes $310 million. That includes payments it
missed and that were then made by Dauphin County, which
guaranteed some of the incinerator debt, and bond insurer
 Assured Guaranty  Municipal Corp. of Hamilton,  Bermuda .  “Assured Guaranty strongly supports the efforts of the
governor and the Legislature to reach a prompt and fair
resolution of Harrisburg’s debt obligations,” Ashweeta Durani,
a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail today. “We will continue to
work with the commonwealth, Harrisburg and Dauphin County to
address Harrisburg’s debt situation.”  Bargaining Power  During a first hearing on Harrisburg’s bankruptcy in
federal court Oct. 17, Judge Mary D. France urged the council,
mayor and commonwealth to enter mediation. Clayton Davidson, a
Harrisburg-based lawyer representing Dauphin County, said it
would be open to mediation.  “Harrisburg’s Chapter 9 gambit, while in our opinion
likely to be invalidated in court, may turn out to be a deft
stroke in an attempt to leverage a more equitable outcome” for
the city, Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts including John Hallacy wrote in a note to clients.  Howard Cure, director of municipal research for Evercore
Wealth Management LLC in  New York , said that wouldn’t please
investors. Other Pennsylvania cities might try to do the same,
he said.  “If Harrisburg is successful about extracting concessions
from the state, then that would be a concern,” Cure said in a
telephone interview.  Seizing the Wheel  A receiver would have the power to sell assets, hire
advisers and suspend the authority of elected officials who
interfere.  “It’s a power grab,” said Councilwoman Susan Brown-
Wilson, who supported bankruptcy. She said she was “open to
sitting down” to discuss a way out of the crisis.  Under the law, the mayor and council meet eight days after
an emergency declaration to discuss a recovery plan. The state
would have to approve it and the council enact it.  Thompson in a news conference today said she will request a
meeting. “I’m telling council to come to the table and do the
right thing,” she said.  Members Brown-Wilson, Brad Koplinski, Eugenia Smith and
Wanda Williams said in a statement yesterday that the takeover
would leave Harrisburg with limited revenue while creditors are
paid in full.  “After all the city’s assets are sold and the city is on
its knees, the receiver has the ability to file for bankruptcy
to pick the bones of our city clean,” they wrote. “But by
then, all the creditors have been paid, so the bankruptcy would
go after our employees and pensioners.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Harrisbburg at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  