-- 
Pernod-Ricard Seeks About 6% Earnings Growth

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-10-20T10:05:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/pernod-ricard-seeks-about-6-earnings-growth.html
Pernod-Ricard SA (RI) ,  Europe ’s second-
largest distiller, aims to increase profit by about 6 percent
this fiscal year after joining rivals  Diageo Plc (DGE)  and  Remy
Cointreau SA (RCO)  in reporting sales that beat estimates.  Pernod, which reported first-quarter “organic” revenue
growth of 11 percent, is targeting the increase in earnings
after reporting a gain of 8 percent on the same basis last year.
The Paris-based company commented today in an e-mailed
statement.  The French distiller reported a “blowout first-quarter
sales performance, but a slightly disappointing full-year profit
guidance,” Jamie Isenwater, an analyst at Deutsche Bank in
London, wrote today. “I suspect that Pernod is being fairly
conservative.”  Pernod, which makes Chivas Regal whisky and Absolut vodka,
also reiterated its forecast to further reduce borrowings to
around 4 times adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization by June 2012. There will be no
“transformational acquisitions from our side in this and the
next fiscal year,” Chief Executive Officer Pierre Pringuet said
today in a phone interview.  Pernod rose as much as 1.2 percent to 65.36 euros and
traded at 64.95 euros, up 0.5 percent, at 11:09 a.m. in Paris,
giving the company a market value of 17.2 billion euros ($24
billion).  Rating Companies  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors
Service both boosted Pernod’s debt ratings to investment grade
after the company reported debt of 9 billion euros as of June
30, or 4.4 times adjusted Ebitda.  Pablo Zuanic , an analyst at Liberum, has said that Pernod’s
debt ratios could hold it back from bidding for all, or part of,
Beam Inc., the maker of Jim Beam bourbon.  “You can be like a child looking at the shop windows,
saying ‘there are many toys I’d like to buy,’” Pringuet said in
the interview. “But we have one focus today, to continue to
deleverage the group.”  Sales of spirits including Martell cognac and The Glenlivet
whisky in emerging markets including  China ,  India  and  Brazil 
helped boost Pernod’s revenue growth. The 11 percent growth in
organic sales, which exclude the effects of acquisitions,
disposals and currency fluctuations, exceeded the 6.3 percent
median estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We suspected management might err on the side of caution
at this stage, as has been the case in the past,” analysts
including Andy Smith and  Andy Ford  at MF Global in London wrote
today, commenting on the new forecasts. Pernod beat last year’s
profit target after raising it when the company announced first-
half results.  Not Conservative  “It’s not a question of being conservative,” Pringuet
said. “We announce what we’re absolutely sure to deliver.” The
company’s forecast targets an increase in earnings before
interest and taxation, excluding acquisitions, one-time items
and currency fluctuations.  Pernod, along with Diageo and Remy Cointreau, is looking to
use sales in emerging markets to offset tough conditions in more
established markets including western Europe and the U.S. Diageo
reported first-quarter sales yesterday that beat estimates,
posting a 9 percent increase on gains in  Latin America ,  Asia  and
Africa.  Diageo, the maker of Johnnie Walker whisky and Smirnoff
vodka, said in August it would target average organic sales
growth of 6 percent in the “medium term,” as well as improving
profitability. Diageo is the world’s largest distiller.  Pernod’s first-quarter net sales rose to 1.99 billion euros
from 1.88 billion euros a year earlier, the company said today.
The outlook assumes “strong dynamism in emerging markets and
slow growth in mature markets,” Pernod said.  Remy Cointreau today reported first-half growth that beat
estimates, boosted by sales of its Remy Martin cognac in Asia
and at airport shops. Organic sales rose 18 percent compared
with 15 percent expected by analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  