-- 
Pfizer Settles Whistle-Blower Suit Over Detrol Marketing

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-10-20T18:40:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/pfizer-settles-whistle-blower-lawsuit-over-detrol-lawyer-says.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  agreed to pay $14.5
million to settle a lawsuit brought by two whistle-blowers who
claimed the company improperly marketed its bladder-control drug
Detrol.  The whistle-blowers, former sales representatives David
Wetherholt and Marci Drimer, sued Pfizer in federal court in
 Boston  in 2006, claiming the company cheated Medicaid, the
state-administered, federal health-care program for low-income
people, by pushing Detrol for a prostate condition. The suit was
filed under the False Claims Act on behalf of the U.S. and
multiple states.  Pfizer will pay $14.5 million to the U.S. government, 49
states and the  District of Columbia ,  Thomas M. Greene , a lawyer
for the whistle-blowers, said today in a statement. The ex-
Pfizer employees will receive 27 percent of the federal portion
of the recovery, or about $3.3 million, he said.  “The plan to market Detrol off-label to new patient
populations was hatched by a marketing team, not by research and
development,” Greene said in an interview. “Instead of asking,
‘Who will Detrol help?’ or even, ‘How does Detrol work?’ the
question became, ‘Who can we convince to buy Detrol?’”  ‘Favorable Terms’  Pfizer denied any wrongdoing. The New York-based company
settled the lawsuit on “favorable terms,” it said today in a
statement.  “This settlement allows Pfizer to avoid the cost and
distraction of litigation and put this matter behind us,” the
company said.  Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, paid $2.3 billion in
2009 to settle U.S. investigations into improper marketing of
its Bextra painkiller and other drugs. The Detrol claim was the
last of the  False Claims Act  cases connected to these suits, the
company said.  The U.S. declined to intervene, or join, the Detrol lawsuit
in 2009. The whistleblowers pursued the claim on their own after
that decision, Greene said.  The former Pfizer sales representatives claimed that the
company marketed Detrol, approved for treatment of overactive
bladder conditions, for an additional, unapproved, use, in
violation of federal regulations.  Pfizer encouraged prescriptions for patients who have an
impeded flow of urine caused by a condition called benign
prostatic hyperplasia, the whistle-blowers claimed.  ‘Unlawful Conduct’  “Pfizer intentionally embarked on a course of unlawful
conduct that it knew would lead to the submission by physicians
and pharmacists of thousands of Medicaid claims for Detrol uses
that were not covered by Medicaid and for which the drug was
ineffective,” the whistle-blowers said in their complaint.  The lawsuit was initially settled in January while the
conclusion of the case was delayed as the plaintiffs got
agreements from the states, according to court filings.  Wetherholt and Drimer also alleged Pfizer forced them out
after they complained about marketing practices. Greene declined
to comment on whether their claims of wrongful termination were
settled.  Wetherholt and Drimer will also receive an undetermined
amount from the $2.62 million portion of the settlement shared
by the states, Greene said.  “They will receive a percentage of the state settlements
for those states with false claims acts,” he said.  The case is U.S. ex. rel. Wetherholt v. Pfizer Inc.,
06-10204, U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts 
(Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 