-- 
Philippine Peso Weakens on Europe’s Debt Crisis; Bonds Rise

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-10-20T09:55:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/philippine-peso-weakens-before-policy-rate-decision-g-20-meet.html
The Philippine peso fell as division
among European leaders over how to resolve the region’s debt
crisis bolstered demand for dollars and deterred risk-taking.
Five-year bonds rose before a central bank rate review.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kept its overnight borrowing
rate at 4.50 percent following a rate review today. All 17
economists in a Bloomberg survey predicted the outcome, which
was announced after the close of local trading. The inflation
outlook is “slightly tilted to the downside” and latest
forecasts show the target of 3 percent to 5 percent until 2013
will be met, Governor Amando Tetangco said in a statement.  “The E.U. summit may not yield great results and thus
could disappoint, pushing the dollar higher,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , a currency strategist at Malayan Banking Bhd. in
 Singapore .  The peso declined 0.4 percent to 43.32 per dollar as of the
close in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The yield on
the 9.125 percent bonds due September 2016 fell four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 4.80 percent, according to
Tradition Financial Services.  A French-German split over  Europe ’s rescue strategy emerged
as finance ministers prepare to meet in Brussels tomorrow under
pressure to craft a solution to the region’s debt crisis.  Philippine inflation will likely average 4.46 percent this
year, 3.05 percent in 2012 and 3 percent in 2013, central bank
Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said in  Manila . Monthly
inflation this year won’t exceed 5 percent, he said. Liquidity
growth of 9 percent to 10 percent is “just right,” Guinigundo
said.  The nation’s monetary policy remains appropriate, Tetangco
told reporters after the rate decision.  “The market perceives the policy stance to be neutral and
will probably assume that the key rate will be unchanged for the
rest of the year,” said Bunny Bernardo-Recto, vice president at
Manila-based Chinatrust Philippines Commercial Bank Corp. The
central bank’s final policy meeting for this year will be on
Dec. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 