-- 
Philippines Holds Rate to Protect Economy From Growth Risks

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 
2011-10-20T10:05:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/philippine-central-bank-holds-benchmark-interest-rate-at-4-5-.html
The  Philippines  kept its benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged for a fourth meeting, joining nations
from  Indonesia  to  South Korea  in choosing to protect growth as a
weakening global economy reduces the urgency to fight inflation.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas  kept the rate it pays lenders
for overnight deposits at 4.5 percent, according to a statement
in Manila today. The decision was predicted by all 17 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. The central bank maintained the
reserve requirement ratio for lenders at 21 percent after
ordering an increase in July that took effect the next month.  “The central bank’s bias will likely move towards growth,”
said  Prakriti Sofat , a Singapore-based economist at  Barclays
Capital . Bangko Sentral “will likely remain on pause mode,
while keeping a close eye on external developments and growth
dynamics as well as the inflation trajectory,” she said.  Asian policy makers have shifted their focus to shielding
their economies as a potential Greek default and unemployment
above 9 percent in the U.S. threaten to push the world into
another recession. Philippine President Benigno Aquino unveiled
a 72 billion-peso ($1.7 billion) stimulus plan last week while
 Thailand  kept rates unchanged for the first time this year
yesterday, ending its longest series of increases since 2006.  “A neutral stance seems to be the best approach for now,”
Arthur Michael de Castro, an analyst at Bank of the Philippine
Islands in  Manila , said before the decision. “You don’t want to
jump the gun by cutting too early while a rate hike will choke
an already weakening economy.”  Currencies Fall  The peso, which had its worst monthly loss since May 2010
in September, has risen about 1 percent this month. Yields on
benchmark five-year bonds due September 2016 fell to a five-week
low this week, according to Tradition Financial Services. The
Philippine Stock Exchange Index is down 0.7 percent this year.  Asian currencies weakened today as a lack of progress in
resolving Europe’s debt crisis added to concern the global
economic growth is slowing, prompting investors to cut holdings
of emerging-market assets. The won slipped from a one-month high
after a rift emerged between France and  Germany  over how to
enhance a bailout fund.  “There could be further deterioration in the global
financial markets,” Philippine central bank Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said in Manila today. “The challenge is to be
watchful of emerging risks and be prepared to respond
accordingly.”  Brazil , Singapore  The risk of another global recession erased $10 trillion
off equities worldwide last quarter and prompted officials from
 China  to Brazil to boost fiscal measures or cut interest
rates. Singapore, which uses the island’s dollar to manage
prices, said this month it will slow currency gains as the
government cut its growth forecast for 2011.  Brazil’s central bank cut borrowing costs by half a point
this week for a second straight meeting as growth in  Latin
America ’s biggest economy slows amid  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis.  Growth in the Philippines’ $200 billion economy eased for a
fourth straight quarter in the three months through June, with
gross domestic product rising 3.4 percent from a year earlier.
Slowing expansion prompted Aquino to pledge he will accelerate
spending on roads, bridges, and railways to support the economy
as the government cut its growth forecasts for this year and
next.  Slowing growth is being felt by the country’s companies.
Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co.’s third-quarter revenue
was likely lower from a year earlier, Chairman Manuel Pangilinan
said this month.  Inflation Pressure  Inflation accelerated in September, with consumer prices
increasing 4.8 percent from a year earlier, according to data
from the  National Statistics Office  using 2006 as a base year.
The gain was 4.6 percent using 2000 as a base year. The central
bank targets an average annual inflation rate of 3 percent to 5
percent from 2011 to 2013, using the 2000 series.  The Philippines will meet its inflation target this year
until 2013, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said today.
Price gains will likely average 4.46 percent this year, 3.05
percent in 2012 and 3 percent in 2013, Guinigundo said. Monthly
inflation this year won’t exceed 5 percent, the deputy governor
said.  “The Monetary Board continues to be mindful of any
remaining upside risks to inflation, including potential
increases in liquidity due to sustained capital inflows,”
Tetangco said.  Still, inflation has been “relatively subdued” and won’t
impinge on consumption, Guinigundo said. Banks have sufficient
funds for lending, while domestic consumption and the
government’s fiscal stimulus plan will likely boost economic
growth in the fourth quarter, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in  Singapore  at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  