-- 
Factories Help to Support U.S. Economy as Labor, Housing Markets Struggle

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-10-20T20:20:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/philadelphia-area-manufacturing-index-unexpectedly-rises-to-8-7-in-october.html
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia
area unexpectedly expanded in October at the fastest pace in six
months, signaling factories are helping support a  U.S. economy 
weighed down by weakness in the housing and labor markets.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index increased to 8.7 from minus 17.5 last month, the biggest
one-month rebound in 31 years. Readings greater than zero
indicate expansion in the area covering eastern  Pennsylvania ,
southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .  Companies such as hydraulic equipment-maker  Parker Hannifin
Corp. (PH)  are raising sales forecasts as they benefit from rising
business investment and overseas demand. Other reports today
showed purchases of existing homes declined and Americans’
confidence in the economic outlook slumped with unemployment
stuck near 9 percent and wages stagnant.  “Manufacturing continues to play a prominent role because
of the exporters,” said  John Silvia , chief economist at Wells
Fargo Securities LLC in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “There are
orders there and the economy is improving. The problem we have
is that we’re moving into an expansion phase at a pace that’s
far below what an expansion usually is.”  The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists for the factory gauge was minus 9.4. Estimates from
ranged from minus 16.5 to 1.  Shares Advance  Stocks climbed as European governments discussed deploying
$1.3 trillion in funds to tame the sovereign debt crisis and
 France  and  Germany  asked officials to agree on crisis plans by
Oct. 26. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.5 percent to
1,215.39 at the close in  New York .  The Fed’s report showed the new orders measure climbed to
the highest level since April after contracting the previous
month. Shipments also expanded in October, while a gauge of
factory employment in the region indicated slower job gains.  Individual measures in the index don’t contribute to the
headline reading, so some economists consider it a gauge of
sentiment among manufacturers.  Economists monitor Philadelphia and New York Fed factory
reports for clues about the Institute for Supply Management
national figures on manufacturing during the month. The ISM will
release its report on Nov. 1.  Parker Hannifin  this week increased its full-year forecast
after posting higher sales and profit in the third quarter from
a year earlier. In addition to a gain in North American
industrial orders, stronger business in Europe helped ease the
Cleveland-based company’s concerns the global economy might
retrench, it said.  Europe’s Outlook  “If we haven’t talked ourselves into a double-dip by now,
we probably won’t because we’ve been talking about it for a
better part of two quarters here,” President and Chief
Executive Officer Donald Washkewicz said in an Oct. 18 call with
analysts, noting that Parker Hannifin’s outlook was “bullish.”
“All of the major countries, being Germany, France, U.K.,
 Italy , are all looking good. That’s the reason we’re pretty
optimistic about  Europe  going forward.”  While manufacturing is holding up, housing continues to be
buffeted by consumer pessimism and an absence of faster job
growth.  Purchases of existing homes dropped 3 percent last month to
a 4.91 million annual rate, according to figures from the
National Association of Realtors. The median price declined 3.5
percent from a year ago, and about one in five real-estate
agents polled said contracts had been canceled, the group said.  Sales to Inventories  Slower sales amid elevated foreclosures are keeping
inventories high. At the current pace of purchases, it would
take 8.5 months to sell the number of existing homes on the
market, up from 8.4 months at the end of August.  Previously owned home sales declined in three of the four
U.S. regions, led by an 8.8 percent drop in the West.  Scottsdale, Arizona-based  Meritage Homes Corp. (MTH) , which
builds energy-efficient single-family homes, saw its sales in
the quarter ended in September rise from a year earlier even as
demand remains at “depressed levels,” executive vice president
Brent Anderson said on an Oct. 12 conference call.  “We need to have more people in jobs -- good, well-paying,
full-time jobs,” Anderson said. “It’s really a matter of
confidence.”  Sentiment dropped in October to the lowest level since the
recession, a Bloomberg measure showed. The Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index’s monthly expectations of the economy declined to
minus 45, the worst reading since February 2009. The weekly
comfort gauge was minus 48.4 for the period ended Oct. 16, up
from minus 50.8 the prior week that was close to a record low.  Jobless Claims  Limited improvement in the labor market is souring
sentiment. Jobless claims fell by 6,000 to 403,000 in the week
ended Oct. 15, according to Labor Department data today.  “We’re running in place,” said  Scott Brown , chief
economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,
 Florida . The data are “consistent with lackluster to moderate
growth in the job market and the economy,” he said.  The index of U.S. leading economic indicators increased in
September at a pace that points to a slower rate of growth in
the coming months. The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook
for the next three to six months climbed 0.2 percent after a 0.3
percent gain in August, the New York-based research group said
today. Last month’s gain was the smallest since a decline in
April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  