-- 
Pianalto Says Long-Term Unemployment in U.S. Is ‘Particularly Troubling’

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-10-20T18:18:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/pianalto-says-long-term-unemployment-in-u-s-is-particularly-troubling-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
President  Sandra Pianalto  said that long-term unemployment is
“particularly troubling” for the  U.S. economy , and a lack of
demand is causing high jobless rates.  “A particularly troubling aspect of our current
unemployment problem is the long duration of unemployment
experienced by many individuals,” Pianalto said today in
Toledo, Ohio. “The most important reason for our high
unemployment rates is that spending by consumers, businesses,
and government still remains uninspiring. In other words, these
higher rates of unemployment are predominantly cyclical in
nature.”  She said she foresees a growth rate of about 3 percent in
the third quarter, and her outlook for 2012 is for about 2.5
percent expansion.  The U.S. economy, the world’s largest, expanded at a 1.3
percent annual rate in the second quarter after growing at a 0.4
percent pace in the prior three months, according to Commerce
Department figures. Gross domestic product will advance 1.7
percent this year and 2 percent in 2012, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists earlier this month.  Payrolls Increased  Payrolls increased 103,000 in September, as the
 unemployment rate  held at 9.1 percent, the Labor Department said
Oct. 7.  Pianalto also spoke about the role of factories in the U.S.
recovery. “On the positive side, exporters, machinery producers
and high technology firms have shown good growth,” she said.
“U.S. manufactured exports have risen briskly over the last two
years, aided by the value of the dollar.”  A report today showed manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region unexpectedly expanded in October at the fastest pace in
six months, a sign U.S. factories may provide more support for
the recovery. The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general
economic index increased to 8.7 from minus 17.5 last month, the
biggest one-month rebound in 31 years.  Economists forecast minus 9.4 for the gauge, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Readings greater
than zero indicate expansion in the area covering eastern
 Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .  Good, Bad News  “While there is good news and bad news on the output side
of manufacturing, there is little good news to report on the
employment front,” Pianalto said today.  The Fed’s Beige Book survey, an anecdotal summary of
economic performance, said the recovery was fueled by  consumer
spending  that was “up slightly,” business spending that
“increased somewhat” and manufacturing that rose as many
districts reported a boost to automobile production.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this month told a
congressional committee that the two-year-old recovery is
“close to faltering,” while repeating his forecast for a
pickup in growth.  Policy makers voted Sept. 21 to push down mortgage and
other loan rates in an effort to spur growth and employment. The
Fed plans to extend maturities of the Treasuries in its
portfolio by buying $400 billion of long-term debt and selling
an equal amount of shorter-term securities.  The Federal Open Market Committee’s policy decisions have
“been appropriate given the outlook for our economy,” Pianalto
said in response to a question from the audience. At the same
time, she said, “there is a lot of uncertainty out there in
terms of how our economy and the outlook will evolve.”  Pianalto, 57, became president of the Cleveland Fed in
2003. She is not a voting member of the FOMC this year and has
never dissented from an FOMC decision. Fed presidents rotate
voting on monetary policy, with Pianalto voting every other
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus,  Ohio , at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  