-- 
PSV, Sporting, Anderlecht Perfect in Europa League; Stoke, Tottenham Win

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-10-20T22:05:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/psv-sporting-anderlecht-perfect-in-europa-league-stoke-tottenham-win.html
PSV Eindhoven , Sporting Lisbon and
Anderlecht maintained their perfect records in soccer’s Europa
League as Stoke and Tottenham stayed atop their groups.  Georgino Wijnaldum scored with a 70th-minute penalty as PSV
beat Hapoel Tel-Aviv 1-0 last night to take a three-point lead
after three games in Group C of  Europe ’s second-tier club
competition. Sporting beat Vaslui 2-0 to open up a seven-point
lead in Group E, while Anderlecht’s 2-0 win at Sturm Graz kept
it three points ahead in Group L.  Kenwyne Jones ,  Cameron Jerome  and Ryan Shotten scored as
Stoke easily beat Maccabi Tel-Aviv 3-0 and is two points ahead
in Group E over Dynamo Kiev, which beat Besiktas 1-0.  Roman Pavlyuchenko scored with a free kick in the 33rd
minute as Tottenham defeated Rubin Kazan 1-0. Spurs lead Group A
by two points over PAOK Salonika, a 2-1 winner over Shamrock
Rovers.  Chris Woods’s goal in the 10th minute of stoppage time gave
Birmingham a 2-1 win over Club Bruges that left the teams tied
atop Group H with six points. The game had a lengthy delay when
Birmingham’s Pablo Ibanez was knocked unconscious after clashing
heads with Bruges’s Joseph Akpala.  FC Twente  beat Odense 4-1 to move three points ahead in
Group K over Fulham, which lost 1-0 at Wisla Krakow in a match
in which both teams had a player sent off.  Mehdi Benatia and Antonio Floro Flores scored in the final
two minutes as Udinese beat Atletico Madrid 2-0 to take a
three-point lead in Group I. Celtic tied 1-1 with Rennes in the
other group match.  5-0 Wins  Schalke routed AEK Larnaca 5-0 to stay one point ahead in
Group J over Maccabi Haifa, which also won 5-0 over AEK Athens.
Metalist Kharkiv scored three times after Jonathan Cristaldo was
red-carded to defeat Malmo 4-1 and move to the top of Group G.  Hannover drew 2-2 with Copenhagen to stay tied for the
Group B lead with Standard Liege, which played a scoreless tie
with Vorskla Poltava.  Fernando Llorente scored with two penalty kicks as  Athletic
Bilbao  rallied for a 2-2 tie with Red Bull Salzburg in Group F.
Athletic leads Salzburg and Paris St. Germain, which drew 0-0 at
Slovan Bratislava, by one point.  The two top teams in each of the 12 groups advance to the
knockout phase along with the eight third-place finishers from
the elite Champions’ League group stage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 