-- 
Publicis Shares Drope on Lower Forecast for Advertising Industry Growth

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-10-20T08:52:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/publicis-sales-beat-estimates-on-brazil-china.html
Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) , the third-
largest  advertising agency , said that growth in the industry
may decline this quarter, hurt by a slowing global economy. The
company’s shares fell the most in a month in Paris trading.  The ZenithOptimedia unit, which buys ad space for clients,
has cut its industry growth forecast for 2011 from 4.1 percent
to 3.6 percent. The slowdown might appear in the fourth
quarter, Paris-based Publicis said in a statement today.
Publicis shares fell as much as 4.3 percent, the biggest
intraday decline since Sept. 22.  “In the weeks to come, the next four or five weeks,
clients may cut more heavily because if the sales and the
profit are not there, they will cut massively the media
expenditures,” Chief Executive Officer  Maurice Levy  said in a
video on company’s website. “This is a phenomenon that we are
familiar with because every year they are using marketing
expenditures as an adjustment to their profit.”  Publicis, which owns the Leo Burnett and Saatchi & Saatchi
ad agencies, made acquisitions in  China  and  Brazil  and expanded
its digital marketing business to tap high-growth markets.
Still, investors may be concerned that the industry faces
slower growth in 2012 and emerging economies will be affected,
said Simon Wallis, an Amsterdam-based analyst for ING Bank.  “The economic data in developed markets has been weak and
there’s a risk that the weakness impacts some of the emerging
markets,” said Wallis, who recommends investors buy shares of
Publicis and doesn’t own any. “The agencies have gotten both
an emerging market and a digital angle, which are two of the
factors that have been helping them do better than most.”  Publicis traded 3.7 percent lower at 33.62 euros as of
10:43 a.m. The stock has dropped 14 percent this year.  Contract Wins  Third-quarter revenue grew 7.5 percent to 1.42 billion
euros ($1.94 billion), the company said in today’s statement.
Analysts in a Bloomberg survey had estimated sales at 1.4
billion euros. Excluding acquisitions, revenue rose 6.4
percent.  The company, whose clients include Microsoft Corp. and
Walt Disney Co., last month won a deal valued at as much as 400
million euros annually to handle the marketing for chocolate
maker Ferrero SPA.  In the third quarter, Publicis also won business from fast
food chains Burger King Holdings Inc., McDonald’s Corp. and
Yum! Brands Inc.’s  Pizza Hut , as well as Carlsberg A/S, Mars
Inc. and Nestle SA’s Nescafe.  “We are well on the way to fulfilling our goals for the
digital sector and emerging markets,” Levy said in the
statement. The company posted growth in all regions and expects
“healthy growth” for the rest of the year, although an
economic slowdown linked to sovereign debt concerns is now
“visible to all,” he said.  Bellwether Report  Industrywide, marketing spending increased in the third
quarter as companies promoted new products and offerings,
according to the Bellwether Report, an advertising budget
survey produced by the Institute of Practitioners in
Advertising.  Still, companies are increasingly pessimistic about their
outlook as economies worldwide struggle with debt and jobless
rates that threaten the economic recovery, IPA President Nicola Mendelsohn said in the report.  Levy said in July that the company would prioritize
margins, which declined in the first half amid the acquisition
and hiring spree.  London-based  WPP Plc (WPP)  and  Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC) , headquartered
in  New York , are the largest and second-largest ad companies.  Omnicom said third-quarter sales advanced 13 percent from
a year earlier to $3.38 billion.  (Publicis will hold a conference call at 12 p.m. Paris
time to discuss results. To access the call, go to
 http://www.media-server.com/m/p/o4332mox .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  