-- 
Qaddafi Captured by Libya’s NTC Forces, State TV Reports

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   O l a   G a l a l
-- 
2011-10-20T12:30:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/qaddafi-reported-held-as-libyan-fighters-hoist-flags-over-center-of-sirte.html
Former Libyan dictator  Muammar
Qaddafi  was captured today by forces loyal to the country’s
National Transitional Council, state television said.  “We have captured the criminal who destroyed this
country,” according to a statement aired by the channel.
“Libya is joyous, Libya is celebrating.”  There were conflicting reports that Qaddafi was wounded and
may have died from his injuries, the  BBC  and Al Jazeera
television said, citing unidentified NTC officials.  The NTC will issue a statement later today on Qaddafi’s
fate, Mahmoud Shammam, the council’s information minister, told
the BBC in a live interview from the capital, Tripoli. He said
he couldn’t confirm that Qaddafi was captured while leaving
Sirte. The Misrata Military Council, which is leading operations
in Sirte, said in an e-mail that it couldn’t comment on the
former leader’s fate for security reasons.  Qaddafi has been in hiding for most of the eight months of
fighting that erupted in February after he quashed protests,
issuing statements that he preferred to die a martyr. He lost
control of Tripoli in August, and his loyalists massed in his
hometown of Sirte, strategic for its airport and seaport, and
Bani Walid.  Libya ’s new leaders cautioned that is was too early to
declare complete victory over the Qaddafi forces. The start of
NTC control of Sirte would begin the countdown to elections for
a national council within eight months.  ‘Pockets of Resistance’  “Technically speaking, Sirte is under our control but
there are still some pockets of resistance and some Qaddafi
fighters are trying to escape,” Jalal El-Galal, a spokesman for
the NTC, said earlier today in a phone interview in Benghazi.
“The declaration of liberation won’t happen yet.”  Anti-Qaddafi forces in the eastern city of Benghazi joined
the Sirte fighters in celebrating their advances. The scenes in
Sirte, where the fighters fired their weapons into the air, were
televised live by broadcasters including  Al Jazeera .  Thousands of civilians fled the Mediterranean town, a major
Qaddafi stronghold, during lulls in fighting, which erupted
early last month after talks on its surrender broke down. The
NTC had attributed the tenacity of Qaddafi loyalists in Sirte to
the presence of his senior aides, including one of his sons,
Mutassim, and to their fear of revenge attacks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Galal in Benghazi at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  