-- 
Qaddafi Death Marks Start of Libya’s Transition, Challenges

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-10-21T20:36:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/qaddafi-s-death-marks-start-of-libya-s-transition-amid-myriad-challenges.html
The hunt for  Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi
united his opposition as they pursued the man who ruled the
North African nation for 42 years.  Now, his death may bring to light their divisions.  The interim National Transitional Council, made up of
former government officials and technocrats, had said it would
wait for Qaddafi’s capture or death before forming a new
government. It faces the challenge of establishing democratic
rule in a country that Qaddafi governed without a constitution
after toppling a pro-Western monarch in 1969.  The new government may seek to avoid the cracks that
appeared among the pro-democracy forces that ousted the leaders
of neighboring Tunisia and Egypt. The result for the two nations
has been continued economic hardship and bursts of violence, say
analysts including Samer Soliman, an assistant professor of
political economy at the American University in Cairo.  “Libya needs to build institutions from scratch,” he said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “The challenges in Libya
are big and they haven’t had a chance to surface yet.”  While Africa’s largest oil reserves may enable the
government to rebuild Libya’s economy more quickly than in  Egypt 
and Tunisia, the hurdle facing the leadership is political:
uniting the groups that rose up against Qaddafi’s regime and
dealing with the remainder of his supporters.  It’s a test that Egypt and Tunisia have yet to pass, with
power struggles among remnants of the old regimes, and political
parties old and new clouding the outlook of transition and
keeping foreign investors away.  NATO Mission Ending  Qaddafi was killed after an eight-month armed conflict that
left thousands dead. Air strikes and logistical support from the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization helped stop the advance of
Qaddafi’s troops on rebel strongholds and allowed the opposition
to score military victories that culminated in a sweep into the
capital, Tripoli, in August.  NATO plans to end it military operation Oct. 31, the
alliance’s secretary general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, said on his
Facebook page today. A final decision will be made next week, he
wrote.  Qaddafi died from a gunshot wound to the head, inflicted
after he was captured by fighters, Ibrahim Taykah, a doctor who
said he examined the body, told Al Arabiya television from
Misrata today. Another “important corpse,” possibly Qaddafi’s
son and heir apparent Saif al-Islam, was being transported to
his facility for autopsy, Taykah said. Mutassim Qaddafi, a
Qaddafi son who led loyalist fighters in Sirte, died after being
shot in the neck, the Misrata Military Council said yesterday.  Reconstruction Can Begin  The deposed dictator’s death means that the difficult work
of reconstruction and reconciliation can truly begin, said
George Grant, director for global security at the Henry Jackson
Society, a Washington-based democracy promotion group.  “The experiences of other post-conflict environments in
the last decade have repeatedly served as a reminder that this
latter process can be more hazardous than winning the initial
conflict itself,” Grant wrote in an analysis.  Concerns about divisions among rebels emerged when Abdel Fattah Younis, the rebel military chief who defected from
Qaddafi’s government, was killed July 28 after he was taken into
custody for questioning by his own side. The NTC has never
explained his death. Rebels from Misrata, which withstood the
onslaught of Qaddafi’s forces during the conflict, objected that
the NTC board didn’t included representatives of their city.  ‘Militia Problem’  “They have a militia problem beyond what I thought,” said
U.S.  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican who
visited Tripoli Sept. 29 as part of a Senate delegation.  “There’s 28 militias in Tripoli alone,” he said yesterday
in  Washington . “Every tribe, every group has their own little
army, and that’s a real problem. You got to get the militias to
lay their weapons down and buy into a national army and a
national police force.”  Historically, tensions between east and west in Libya
result from rivalries among Libya’s scores of tribes and from
Qaddafi’s efforts to divide the country’s riches and power among
the tribes that supported him, according to Edward Walker, a
scholar at the Middle East Institute in Washington and a former
U.S. assistant secretary of state for near eastern affairs.  “The division of the country poses unprecedented
challenges going ahead,” said Nicolo Sartori, an energy and
defense analyst at Rome’s Institute for International Affairs.  The conflict brought Libya’s oil output down to a trickle
and may cause economic output to shrink 34 percent in 2011, the
International Institute of Finance said in a statement Oct. 20.  Assets Abroad  The Libyan central bank and the country’s sovereign-wealth
fund have about $168 billion in assets abroad. About $50 billion
of that is in  bank deposits  in European countries including
 Germany , the U.K.,  France  and  Italy , Farhat Bengdara, the
central bank governor who broke with Qaddafi’s regime, said in
August.  Speaking in an interview yesterday, he remained upbeat
about the country’s future, saying the transition may not take
more than eight months.  Qaddafi’s death “will bring peace to Libya,” he said.
“The financial situation in Libya is not excellent, but we hope
that as soon as things clear and there is a new government that
sanctions will be removed and oil will start to be exported,”
he added, referring to the freeze that Western powers imposed on
Libya’s assets after the revolt started.  Overseas Holdings  Libya’s holdings include 7.5 percent of the Turin-based
Juventus soccer club; 2 percent of  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , Italy’s
biggest defense company; and 3 percent of  Pearson Plc (PSON) , publisher
of the Financial Times. Libyan investors own 7.2 percent of
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank, including a 4 percent stake
held by Libya’s central bank, according to Bloomberg data.  Western governments have begun to lift sanctions on Libya’s
frozen assets. The U.S. has released more than $700 million of
the $1.5 billion that has been unfrozen to help the NTC pay for
fuel and civilian needs, U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said Sept. 1. France has said it was releasing 1.5 billion euros
($2.1 billion). The  United Nations Security Council  on Aug. 30
approved Britain’s request to release $1.6 billion of Libyan
assets held in U.K. banks.  Oil output rose to 350,000 barrels a day in October from
75,000 barrels a day in September, according to a report by the
 International Energy Agency  this month. Libya may pump about
600,000 barrels a day of crude by the end of the year, compared
with about 1.6 million barrels a day before the uprising,
according to the report.  NTC Unity  Unity among NTC members and the emergence of a group of
“well educated, urbanized, modern-background” officials that
led the revolt may help with Libya’s transition, said Stefan
Wolff, professor of international studies at Birmingham
University in  England .  Egypt, by contrast, didn’t “have a clean slate,” because
elements of the former regime are still resisting change, he
said.  Still, Qaddafi’s death in his coastal hometown of Sirte is
unlikely to speed up the revival of Libya’s oil output because
the country isn’t yet fully under control, a condition for  oil
companies  to return, according to JBC Energy GmbH.  As in Egypt and  Tunisia , the euphoria in Libya may be
“premature,” said  Shadi Hamid , director of research at the
Brookings Doha Center in Qatar.  “In Libya everything is up for grabs,” he said in a
telephone interview. “There is a lot of power to be had and if
people want power they’re going to fight over it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  