-- 
Libyans Cheer Qaddafi’s Death as Step Toward Democracy After 42-Year Reign

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r ,   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-10-21T06:41:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/qaddafi-died-after-being-captured-in-libya-misrata-military-council-says.html
Exuberant Libyans waving flags and
assault rifles poured into the streets of Tripoli and other
cities to celebrate the death of  Muammar Qaddafi , who ruled by
force of arms and personality for 42 years.  His attempt to escape the holdout coastal city of Sirte,
the scene of heavy fighting in recent weeks, was foiled by
French warplanes, which spotted and blocked his convoy of SUVs
until Libyan fighters reached the scene, according to French
Defense Minister Gerard Longuet.  In the celebrations, men held their children while fighters
flashed victory signs and fired weapons into the air, as people
danced to the new national anthem. In the evening, fireworks lit
up the capital’s sky.  “Years of tyranny and dictatorship have now been closed,”
Abdel Hafiz Ghoga, National Transitional Council vice chairman,
told reporters in Benghazi.  Qaddafi’s son Mutassim died after being shot in the neck,
according to an e-mail from the Misrata Military Council, whose
fighters led the assault on Sirte and act independently of the
NTC. Anti-Qaddafi forces were reported to be chasing two
convoys, one of which was said to carry another Qaddafi son, his
once heir-apparent Saif al-Islam, according to Ahmed Bani, an
NTC defense spokesman.  ‘Momentous Day’  Mutassim led loyalists fighting in Sirte, Mansour Do, a
personal guard to Muammar Qaddafi, who was arrested yesterday
and is now being held in Misrata, told  Al Arabiya  today.  Muammar Qaddafi was mostly hiding out in houses and
apartments during the battle for Sirte, Do said, adding that he
didn’t see what happened to Qaddafi during the air raid because
he was knocked unconscious.  Western leaders cheered the conclusion of the hunt for
Qaddafi, which will allow NATO to end its operations, even as
analysts cautioned that Libya’s political divisions may
jeopardize its democratic ambitions.  U.S. President  Barack Obama , in remarks at the White House,
called it a “momentous day” in Libyan history and said the
oil-producing North African nation now must follow the “long
and winding road to full democracy.”  “A new page opens for the Libyan people, that of
reconciliation in unity and liberty,” said French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy , who was at the forefront of Western efforts to
aid the Libyan uprising.  Arab Spring  The circumstances of Qaddafi’s death were unclear.
Broadcasters carried images purporting to show Qaddafi, alive
and standing after his capture, and later his corpse. Mahmoud Jibril, the acting prime minister, was cited by  CNN  as saying
that Qaddafi was captured alive and was killed in crossfire as
he was driven away in a vehicle.  Amnesty International , a human rights group, called on the
NTC to make public “the full facts” on how Qaddafi died. “It
is essential to conduct a full, independent and impartial
inquiry to establish” whether Qaddafi was killed during combat
or after he was captured, the organization said on its website.  The uprising was part of the region’s so-called Arab
Spring, which also unseated the leaders of Egypt and  Tunisia .
While Africa’s largest oil reserves may enable Libya to rebuild
its economy faster than Egypt and Tunisia, the challenge facing
the interim government is political as it struggles to unite the
factions that challenged Qaddafi’s rule since February.  Election Countdown  The NTC has said that winning control of Sirte will begin
an eight-month countdown to elections for a national council, a
first step toward a promised democratic system.  “The transition will probably be even more difficult
compared to Egypt or Tunisia, because there’s no clear
leadership, the power is very fragmented, there are big
interests at stake and there’s no institution strong enough to
handle all this,” Nicolo Sartori, an energy and defense analyst
at Rome’s Institute for International Affairs, said in a phone
interview.  Nuri Berruien, the chairman of  Libya ’s state-run National
Oil Corp., said Qaddafi’s death will expedite the nation’s
efforts to return to normal crude-output levels.  “A lot of things will return quickly after this good
news,” he said yesterday by mobile telephone from Libya.  Oil prices  dipped at around noon  London  time on news of
Qaddafi’s capture and injuries, before advancing later. Crude
oil for November delivery fell 66 cents to settle at $85.45 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Oil Output  Libyan oil output, which fell from 1.6 million barrels a
day to zero during the uprising, may reach 600,000 barrels a day
by the end of the year, according to the  International Energy
Agency  in Paris.  After Tripoli’s fall, Qaddafi had issued statements that he
preferred to die a martyr. His loyalists massed in Sirte,
strategically important because of its airport and harbor, and
in Bani Walid.  A French  Dassault Aviation SA (AM)  Mirage 2000 jet fired its
cannon ahead of the suspect convoy to make it stop as the
vehicles sought to leave Sirte, Longuet said at a briefing in
Paris. It did not fire directly on the convoy, he said.  “It was a suspect convoy and the goal was to stop it so it
could be inspected,” he said. Libyan forces then attacked the
convoy, he said.  “It was our courageous revolutionaries who have killed the
tyrant and not NATO,” Bani said on Al Arabiya television.  On a visit to Libya Oct. 18, U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton , in response to a question from a young Libyan,
said that the U.S. hoped Qaddafi could “be captured or killed
soon so that you don’t have to fear him any longer.”  Justice System  Clinton also urged the transitional leadership and Libyans
who supported the anti-Qaddafi cause to refrain from vigilantism
and to use the justice system, not the streets, to deal with
those accused of atrocities during the eight-month rebellion.  The Misrata forces said they had defeated the last of
Qaddafi’s loyalists in Sirte, ending weeks of battles that
erupted last month after talks on the town’s surrender broke
down.  The interim government attributed the tenacity of loyalists
in Sirte to the presence of senior Qaddafi aides, including
Mutassim. About 17 of Qaddafi’s closest aides were captured in
Sirte during the final battle, said a top Libyan envoy to the
U.K., Mahmud Nacua.  “Today Libya’s future begins,” he told reporters in
London. “The people are looking forward to a very promising
future.”  Civilian Reprisals  Pope Benedict XVI  said the death of Qaddafi after a
“bloody fight” marks the end of an “oppressive” regime that
must pave the way for a transition without retaliation. NATO
Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasumussen in a  statement  urged
the NTC “to prevent reprisals against civilians and show
restraint in dealing with defeated pro-Qaddafi forces.”  Obama said the demise of Qaddafi’s regime vindicates his
strategy of bringing together allies to act, meeting its
objectives without putting U.S. troops on the ground.  “We’ve demonstrated what collective action can achieve in
the 21st century,” Obama said. The NATO mission in Libya “will
soon come to an end.”  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  welcomed the death of
Qaddafi, urging people to think of the victims of his deposed
Libyan regime.  “Today is a day to remember all Colonel Qaddafi’s
victims,” Cameron told reporters outside his London residence,
listing those killed in the Lockerbie bombing, British
policewoman Yvonne Fletcher and people killed by the  Irish
Republican Army , which Qaddafi supplied with Semtex explosive,
as well as those killed in Libya.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Galal in Benghazi at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  