-- 
Qaddafi Demise Will Expedite Libyan Crude Output, State Oil Company Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-10-20T18:43:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/qaddafi-demise-is-good-news-for-libya-head-of-state-oil-company-says.html
The death of former Libyan leader
 Muammar Qaddafi  in his home town of Sirte will expedite the
nation’s efforts to revive crude output to normal levels, the
chairman of state-run National Oil Corp. said.  “This will help in getting a lot of fields back into
production as soon as possible,” Nuri Berruien said today in a
telephone interview from Libya. “Now that Sirte is liberated,
people can move quickly. People can go to the fields that are in
the west.”  Gunfire echoed across Libya’s main cities today as crowds
poured into streets to celebrate the capture and death of
Qaddafi, who ruled the North African nation for 42 years. The
fall of Sirte, located along the main highway linking the
eastern and western regions, will allow oil workers and
engineers back to the fields, Berruien said.  Libya , holder of  Africa ’s biggest crude reserves, seeks to
restore production to about 1.7 million barrels a day within 15
months, after output dwindled to almost nothing amid the
rebellion that broke out in February. The collapse in exports
contributed to prices rallying as much as 34 percent in London
earlier this year and prompted the  International Energy Agency 
to announce in June a global release of emergency stockpiles for
the third time in the agency’s history.  Supply to Rebound  Libyan output is slowly rising after it plummeted from 1.6
million barrels a day in January. Companies including Eni SpA,
Libya’s biggest foreign investor, and Total SA have returned as
fighting ebbed. Supply may rebound to 750,000 barrels a day by
the end of the year from 430,000 barrels a day now, Berruien
said.  International companies including Halliburton Co. and
Schlumberger Ltd. may be more willing to send staff back to the
country as it returns to “normalcy,” the NOC chairman said.  “This will have a positive impact that is not necessarily
immediate, but we could see the impact after a week or so,”
said Abdeljelil Mayuf, the head of the information department at
Arabian Gulf Oil Co., a state-run company in Benghazi that had
quickly joined the rebel side.  “This will encourage foreign  oil companies  that were
reluctant in the past to come back to Libya,” Mayuf said by
phone from Benghazi. “These companies are looking for complete
security. Some companies, however, may still be reluctant now
because they fear what could come next, but I don’t think
anything will happen. This is the end of Qaddafi’s regime.”  OPEC, Security Concerns  A speedy return of Libyan exports may cause  Saudi Arabia 
and other members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries to consider reining back supply when the 11-nation
group meets on Dec. 14 in Vienna.  Even so, analysts at BNP Paribas SA, Barclays Plc and JBC
Energy GmbH are less convinced Qaddafi’s killing will accelerate
supply because security in the country remains uncertain.  “The factors that govern this lie elsewhere,”  Harry Tchilinguirian , BNP’s London-based head of commodity markets
strategy, said in an e-mail. “Alongside the necessary work
required to address damaged infrastructure, political stability
will be key in shaping the future of Libya’s oil supply.”  While production has recovered to 400,000 barrels a day, a
full resumption is unlikely before the end of 2012, he said.  Oil Prices   David Wech , an analyst at consultant JBC, said by phone
from Vienna that output won’t reach 1 million barrels a day
until the end of 2012 and “will take a couple of years to
return to pre-war levels.”  Brent crude oil for December settlement was up $1.34 at
$109.73 a barrel at 7:30 p.m. on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Prices fell temporarily on news of Qadaffi’s capture,
then recovered.  Barclays maintained its forecast that Libya will restore
production to about 600,000 barrels a day by the end of the
year, as divisions among the rebel-backed National Transitional
Council may slow rehabilitation of the oil industry.  “I don’t think the situation on the ground is different,
Amrita Sen, a Barclays analyst based in London, said in a phone
interview. “The problems of looting or damage at the  oil fields 
haven’t changed.”  Street Celebrations  In the eastern city of Benghazi, where the rebel movement
began, the mood was jubilant.  “This is the happiest moment of my life,” said Ibrahim
Suleiman, a 22-year-old driver in the city. “When I heard the
news on television I didn’t believe it, I ran off to the streets
and I started jumping up and down.”  Executives are optimistic the demise of Qaddafi two months
after he was forced from power will lead rebel fighters to
resume work at their old jobs in the  petroleum industry .  “Quite a few” workers fought against Qaddafi’s forces,
Najmi Karim, chairman of oil field operator Mellitah Oil & Gas
BV, said in a phone interview from Tripoli. “Now all the
manpower should be able to go back, so we should see more
stability and people will go back to a normal life.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  