-- 
Quicksilver Falls 4.8% After Plan to Separate Some Assets

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-10-20T20:22:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/quicksilver-falls-15-reversing-gains-after-mlp-announcement.html
Quicksilver Resources Inc. (KWK) , the
target of a failed management-led takeover attempt, fell 4.8
percent after announcing plans to form a master-limited
partnership to hold some of its Barnett Shale natural-gas
assets.  Quicksilver, based in Fort Worth,  Texas , dropped to $7.77
at the close in New York. The shares have declined 47 percent
this year.  The initial public offering is expected to raise more than
$400 million, and proceeds will be used to help eliminate about
$940 million of public debt in the next two years, Quicksilver
said in a statement yesterday. Quicksilver will retain control
of the partnership, to be called Quicksilver Production
Partners.  “Target proceeds look out of reach,” Drew Venker, a
Denver-based analyst for Lazard Capital Markets, wrote in a note
to clients today. Lazard rates Quicksilver “sell.”  Energy companies have used master-limited partnerships to
raise cash while keeping control of assets. Partnership payouts,
unlike corporate dividends, aren’t subject to U.S. income tax.  Quicksilver’s partnership will compete with seven other
exploration and production partnerships with average payouts
that represent a 7.8 percent return for investors, Venker and
Nicholas Pope, a New York-based analyst for Dahlman Rose & Co.
wrote in notes today.  Because investors will seek comparable returns on
comparable investments, Quicksilver’s proceeds may be as little
as $325 million, Venker wrote.  Barnett Shale  Quicksilver intends to sell the partnership 18 percent of
its production from the Barnett Shale deposit in the  Fort Worth 
area and 15 percent of its year-end 2010 reserves in the
formation. Further sales to the partnership are possible during
the next seven years, which may provide enough funding to retire
all existing corporate debt, it said.  Agreement on a joint venture that would buy pipeline and
gas-processing operations in British Columbia’s Horn River Basin
is expected “fairly shortly,” Chief Executive Officer Glenn Darden said today on a conference call with investors. “The
negotiations have dragged on a little longer than we wanted.”
Quicksilver had expected a deal by Sept. 30, he said.  Registration papers for the initial public offering may be
filed by year-end, Quicksilver said. The company gave advance
notice of the decision because some bondholders have options
expiring Oct. 28 to sell the debt back, Chief Financial Officer
Philip W. Cook said today on the call.  Darden Buyout  Darden and other family members announced plans to take
Quicksilver private in October 2010 and abandoned the proposal
March 17 after talks with bankers and private-equity firms.  Quicksilver’s $350 million of 7.125 percent notes due in
April 2016 surged 6.5 cents to 98.5 cents on the dollar in  New
York , according to Trace, the bond price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The company can redeem the bonds at 103.6 cents on Nov. 21,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  