-- 
Treasuries Decline as European Leaders Plan a Second Summit on Debt Crisis

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-10-20T21:13:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/treasury-10-year-notes-erase-advance-with-yield-little-changed-at-2-17-.html
Treasuries fell, erasing losses,
after European Union leaders said they’ll hold a second summit
next week to address the region’s sovereign debt crisis,
reducing the refuge appeal of U.S. government securities.  Ten-year note yields rose after the EU said the second
crisis meeting will be on Oct. 26, following one on Oct. 23 that
will go ahead as scheduled. The French and German governments
said in a joint statement they agree on the need for an
ambitious response to the debt crisis. A U.S. auction of 30-year
inflation-indexed bonds drew a record low yield.  “Market action has all been based on the European
headlines, and the latest headlines will determine where
Treasuries go,” said  Kevin Flanagan , a Purchase, New York-based
chief fixed-income strategist for Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.
“The Treasury market for the near term is policy-dependent, not
data-dependent.”  Benchmark 10-year yields increased three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 2.19 percent at 5:07 p.m.  New York 
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They gained
earlier to 2.20 percent and declined to 2.11 percent. The price
of the 2.125 percent security due in August 2021 dropped 1/4, or
$2.50 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 14/32.  Thirty-year yields rose four basis points to 3.22 percent
after sliding to 3.12 percent and gaining to 3.23 percent.  ‘Bizarre Situation’  “It’s been trading on headlines coming out of  Europe , and
there’s been lots of confusion as to what any given headline
means,” said Thomas Simons, a government debt economist in New
York at Jefferies Group Inc., one of 22 primary dealers that
trade with the  Federal Reserve . “It’s a bizarre situation.”  Treasuries initially reversed gains after a spokesman for
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  agreed to ask euro-region leaders to assess a
“comprehensive and ambitious” package of measures to solve the
region’s debt crisis at a leaders’ summit on Oct. 23 in order to
agree on the measures at a second meeting. German government
spokesman Steffen Seibert provided the information via e-mail.  European governments may come up with as much as 940
billion euros ($1.3 trillion) to fight the debt crisis by
combining the temporary and planned permanent rescue funds, two
people familiar with the discussions said.  Negotiations over pairing the two funds accelerated this
week after efforts to leverage the temporary fund ran into
European Central Bank opposition and provoked a clash between
Germany and  France , said the people, who declined to be
identified because a decision rests with political leaders.  ‘Bouncing Around’  Benchmark U.S. 10-year notes will likely react sharply to
the outcome of the European deliberations, according toBrett Rose, an interest-rate strategist in New York at the primary
dealer Citigroup Inc.  “A weak outcome or a lack of an outcome could take yields
down 20 basis points, and a strong outcome well above consensus
could take yields about 20 basis points higher,” he said.
“We’re bouncing around in the middle here as expectations
change.”  Treasuries fluctuated earlier as government data showed
manufacturing in the Philadelphia area increased this month and
initial claims for jobless benefits in the U.S. slipped by
6,000, to 403,000, in the week ended Oct. 15. The Fed Bank of
Philadelphia’s regional factory gauge rose to 8.7, from minus
17.5 in September. Readings higher than zero signal expansion.  U.S. government securities have lost 0.8 percent in
October, the most during a month since December, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show. An index of sovereign bonds around the
world declined 0.7 percent over the same period.  Note Auctions  The U.S. will auction next week $35 billion in two-year
notes, an equal amount in five-year securities and $29 billion
in seven-year debt, the Treasury Department said. The government
sold the same amounts of the maturities last month.  The Fed sold $8.87 billion of Treasuries due from August
2012 to March 2013 as part of its plan to replace $400 billion
of short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries
in a program known as Operation Twist to reduce borrowing costs.  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said policy makers
should wait until 2012 before considering additional stimulus
because recent reports have indicated growth has picked up.  “It is reasonable to wait and see how the Twist policy
affects the economy,” Bullard said during an economic
conference at his bank. “Given that the tone of the data has
been better, you want to get into next year” before considering
more action.  TIPS Sale  The 30-year TIPS sold today, due in February 2041, drew a
yield of 0.999 percent, compared with a forecast of 1.038
percent in a Bloomberg News survey of eight primary dealers. The
last sale of the maturity, on June 23, drew a then-record low
yield of 1.744 percent.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 3.06,
versus an average of 2.70 at the past four sales of the maturity
since auctions of the security were resumed in February 2010
after the Treasury stopped selling them in 2001.  “There was clearly a strong reception to the TIPS
auction,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT
Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “There is demand
for the inflation protection over the next 30 years.”  Inflation-indexed notes pay interest at lower rates than
nominal Treasuries on a principal amount that’s linked to the
Labor Department’s consumer price index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  