-- 
Treasury Sells $7 Billion of Inflation-Linked Bonds at a Record Low Yield

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-10-20T18:56:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/treasury-30-year-tips-are-attractive-before-auction-crt-says.html
The Treasury sold $7 billion of
inflation-linked debt at an all-time low yield of 0.999 percent
as investors besides the primary dealers required to bid at the
auction combined to purchase a record amount the securities.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 43.2 percent of the Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, compared with an average of 39.95 percent
at the past four auctions, Treasury data show. Direct bidders,
or non-primary dealer investors that place their bids with the
Treasury, purchased 26.7 percent of the securities, compared
with an average of 16 percent at the last four sales.  “There was clearly a strong reception,”  Ian Lyngen , a
government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “There is demand
for the inflation protection over the next 30 years, especially
with the monetary stimulus coming for the Fed and central banks
around the world.”  The  Federal Reserve  said Sept. 21 it would buy $400 billion
of  U.S. debt  with maturities of six to 30 years through June
while selling an equal amount of securities in its portfolio due
in three years or less. The program, which has become known
among traders as Operation Twist, is the central bank’s latest
measure to stimulate growth while keeping borrowing rates low.  A narrowing in the difference of the so-called break-even
rates on 10- and 30-year U.S. inflation-linked debt before the
auction helped bring in demand, according to CRT.  Break-Even Spread  “A narrowing is outside of the normal state of affairs,”
 David Ader , head of government bond strategy at CRT, said in an
telephone interview before the auction. “The narrowing of the
spread is showing that there is relatively less concern for
inflation on the longer end relative to 10-year TIPS. Given the
Fed’s stance and eventual economic growth this is unlikely.”  The difference in yields on 30-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities and 30-year bonds is 2.18 percentage
points, compared with 1.98 percentage points between 10-year
TIPS and similar maturity Treasuries. The gap was 0.16
percentage point, or 16 basis points, before the auction, down
from an average of about 25 basis points in the past year. Since
the auction the spread has widened to 20 basis points. Investors
typically demand a higher yield premium over time because of the
risk that inflation will erode the value of fixed-rate
securities.  The sale was the fifth 30-year TIPS offering since auctions
of the maturity resumed in February 2010. The Treasury stopped
selling them in 2001. The bonds will mature in February 2041.  Dealer Bids  The Fed’s 22 primary dealers bought 30.2 percent of the
securities today, compared with 50.5 percent in the previous
sale. The firms act as counterparties for the Fed on open market
operations are required to bid at Treasury auctions.  Inflation-indexed notes pay interest at lower rates than
Treasuries on a principal amount that’s linked to the Labor
Department’s consumer price index. TIPS have returned 12 percent
this year, compared with 7.9 percent for conventional
Treasuries, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 3.06,
compared with an average of 2.70 at the past four sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  