-- 
Record Bond Payments Loom as Emerging Company Debt Costs Hit 16-Month High

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-10-20T17:55:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/record-bond-maturities-loom-as-emerging-company-debt-costs-jump.html
Companies in emerging markets have
record amounts of international debt coming due just as
financing costs rise to a 16-month high and their currencies
sink the most since 2008.  Businesses in the 10 biggest developing economies have at
least $54 billion of foreign-currency bonds maturing in the next
12 months, the most since Bloomberg began compiling the data in
1999. The market for new international debt issues dried up
after emerging-nation currencies tumbled 11 percent from this
year’s high and the average cost to refinance dollar bonds rose
to 6.4 percent from 5.6 percent in August, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes show.  Weaker exchange rates have boosted interest expenses at a
time when revenue is growing at the slowest pace since May 2010,
squeezing profits at businesses from New Delhi-based  Bharti
Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  to Turk Hava Yollari AO of Istanbul. With overseas
markets shut for all but the highest-rated credits, rising
interest costs have sent borrowers to local bond investors and
banks for financing.  “Corporates had assumed that emerging-market currencies
were going to appreciate against the dollar for a long, long
time,” said  Bhanu Baweja , the head of emerging-market currency
and credit strategy at UBS AG in London. “I don’t think they’ve
done enough to hedge” against weakness, he said.  Per-share sales for MSCI Emerging Market Index companies
have increased 10 percent in the past 12 months, the slowest
pace since May 2010, and analysts predict growth will ease to
3.4 percent during the next year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Earnings may rise 11 percent, down from 22 percent,
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bharti, Parkson  Bharti Airtel, the Indian mobile-phone company with about
$10 billion of overseas debt, may report a 5 billion rupee ($103
million) hit to second-quarter earnings after the rupee fell to
the lowest level since 2009, according to Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.  Turk Hava Yollari (THYAO) , the carrier known as Turkish Airlines,
faces $158 million of losses after the lira’s slide to a record
low, Ekspres Invest said. Beijing-based Parkson Retail Group
Ltd., which has $200 million of dollar bonds coming due next
month, is in talks with banks to increase a loan taken out in
2010 by $150 million, two people familiar with the matter said
last week.  Emerging-market companies sold a record $108 billion of
foreign-currency debt in the first half of the year as yields
slipped to an average 5.78 percent, or 136 basis points below
the five-year average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
and New York-based JPMorgan. Borrowing costs fell as economic
growth rates three times faster than developed nations spurred
investors to pour $14 billion into emerging-market bond funds,
data compiled by JPMorgan and Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
research firm EPFR Global show.  Issuance Slumps  Now, international issuance is dwindling on concern that
 Europe ’s debt crisis and a faltering U.S. economic expansion
will dent demand for emerging-market goods and slow growth.  Foreign-currency bond sales by companies in developing
nations totaled $2.6 billion in September, compared with $43
billion of local debt offerings, the biggest gap since 2008,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. There were no foreign-currency
debt sales last month by companies rated below investment grade
by  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service or Fitch
Ratings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bharti has about $10 billion of unhedged foreign-currency
debt after the company used loans to fund its $9 billion
purchase of the African assets of Kuwait’s Mobile
Telecommunications Co. last year, according to Sachin Salgaonkar, a Goldman Sachs analyst in Mumbai. The company and
its subsidiaries have about $450 million of debt coming due in
the next 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit Forecasts  Second-quarter earnings forecasts for Bharti probably will
decline during the next few weeks as analysts factor in the
effect of foreign-exchange losses from paying dollar debt with
depreciated rupees, Salgaonkar wrote in an Oct. 6 note. Bharti
gets about 26 percent of its revenue in foreign currency,
according to Salgaonkar.  Bharti shares, which sank 11 percent since the end of July
as the rupee tumbled, are moving in lockstep with the currency
by the most in two years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Raza Khan, a spokesman for Bharti, declined to comment in
an e-mail.  Currency Risk  Turkish Airlines  has the equivalent of $3 billion in
unhedged debt in dollars and euros, according to Selim Kunter,
an equity analyst at Ekspres Invest, an Istanbul-based
brokerage. Foreign-currency losses may “pressure” the stock,
which has tumbled 45 percent this year, Kunter said in a phone
interview.  The carrier expects to pay about $1.6 billion of debt
within the next three years, obligations that stem from long-
term leases for aircraft purchases, Tugba Celik, a spokeswoman
for the company, said in an e-mailed reply to questions. Turkish
Airlines, whose debt is denominated mostly in dollars, gets
about 85 percent of its revenue from international sales and the
company’s debt expenses will be covered in the “long term” by
revenue, according to Celik.  The lira has weakened 17 percent against the dollar in
2011, the second-most among 21 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after  South Africa ’s rand, and touched a
record low of 1.9096 on Oct. 4. Turkish companies have $60.5
billion of overseas loans maturing between July 2011 and July
2012, with the highest monthly amount of $7.93 billion due in
December, according to data compiled by the central bank.  ‘Historically High’  “These are historically high levels,” said Tim Ash, the
head of emerging-market research at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in  London . Turkish companies “face a weight of external
liabilities,” Ash said.  Even companies that don’t have to contend with weaker
currencies are facing higher borrowing costs. Yields on Beijing-
based Parkson Retail’s 7.875 percent bonds maturing next month
have climbed to 14.5 percent from a low of 2.2 percent in May
even as the yuan rose 1.7 percent against the dollar, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Parkson, the third-largest Hong Kong-listed department
store operator by market value, is seeking to increase its loan
maturing in 2013 to $400 million from $250 million, said two
people who declined to be identified because the details are
private. DBS Bank Ltd., JPMorgan,  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) ,  Natixis (KN) 
and Standard Chartered Plc are arranging the facility, the
people said.  China  Exports  China’s exports grew the least in seven months in September
and the customs bureau warned on Oct. 13 of “severe
challenges” as the global economy slows.  “Weaker economic growth in emerging markets may come from
the weakness in Europe,” said UBS’s Baweja. “Capital is
becoming scarce and all companies are paying more to issue
debt.”  The 6.36 percent yield on JPMorgan’s CEMBI Broad Index is
the highest since June 2010, except for a surge at the end of
September and beginning of the month that sent the gauge as high
as 7.13 percent.  Investors demand 447 basis points, or 4.44 percentage
points, in extra yield to hold dollar-denominated emerging-
market corporate bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries, up from 256
in April, according to the CEMBI index. The spread was as wide
as 1,044 basis points in October 2008 during the height of the
global financial crisis.  Companies have taken steps to limit their exposure to
currency swings since 2008, according to Joao Consiglio, a Sao
Paulo-based managing director at Banco Santander Brasil SA, the
Brazilian unit of  Spain ’s largest bank.  MDM Hedges  MSCI Emerging Markets index companies have an average
current ratio, or assets divided by liabilities, of 1.9, up from
1.8 in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cia. de Bebidas das Americas, Latin America’s largest
brewer already has the dollars needed to repay about $500
million of bonds coming due on Dec. 15, the Sao Paulo-based
company said in an e-mailed reply to questions.  MDM Bank of Moscow has set aside funds for 220 million
euros ($304 million) of debt maturing Nov. 16, according to a
company official who declined to be named citing company policy.
Parkson’s $200 million of bonds due Nov. 14 “have been fully
hedged from day one,” Chief Financial Officer Clarence Wong
said in an e-mailed response to questions on Oct. 13.  Three years ago, companies from Moscow-based United Co.
Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer, to Aracruz
Celulose SA, the Brazilian pulp maker acquired by Votorantim
Celulose & Papel SA in 2009 to form Fibria Celulose SA,
restructured debts as their currencies tumbled amid a seizure in
global credit markets.  Selling Reserves  Emerging-market central banks have acted to prevent their
currencies from spiraling lower in the past two months.  Turkey 
has sold about $7.7 billion of its currency reserves since Aug.
5 to support the lira, while central banks in  Russia ,  Poland ,
 Malaysia  and the  Philippines  have sold foreign-exchange to boost
their exchange rates.  Brazil  used derivatives to shore up the
real last month after the biggest five-day plunge since 1999.  The JPMorgan ELMI+ Index, a gauge of emerging-market
currency returns versus the dollar, sank as much as 11 percent
from its May high through Oct. 4, the biggest peak-to-trough
decline since 2008, before trimming losses to 8 percent as of
Oct. 14.  Limited Access  Weaker currencies “will definitely have an impact” on
borrowing costs, said Knut Harald Nilsson, part of a team of
emerging-market money managers that helps oversee about $7.3
billion at Skagen Funds in Stavanger, Norway. “Some companies
borrow in dollars because it’s cheap, but what if the currency
goes against you?”  Joyce Chang, the global head of emerging markets and credit
research at JPMorgan, has an “underweight” recommendation on
emerging-market company debt relative to  government bonds  and
predicted in an Oct. 4 research report that the yield spread on
the CEMBI index will climb to 525 basis points by the end of
2011, or 213 basis points higher than the average during the
past 12 months.  “Market access will be restricted to the better-known”
companies in developing nations, Chang said in the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  