-- 
Reforms Fail to Halt Bank Revenue on Debit-Card Overdaft Fees

-- B y   K a r e n   W e i s e
-- 
2011-10-20T14:25:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/reforms-fail-to-halt-bank-revenue-on-debit-card-overdaft-fees.html
Financial reforms regulating consumer
fees haven’t stopped U.S. banks from collecting billions of
dollars for covering overdrafts on  debit cards .  While fee revenue will be down about 16 percent this year
from its peak in 2009, it will top $16 billion, according to
banking consultant Moebs Services, Bloomberg Businessweek reports
in its Oct. 24 issue.  “Consumers are still getting hit really hard by overdraft
fees,” said Rebecca Borne, an attorney at the Center for
Responsible Lending, a consumer advocacy group.  As banks pushed a shift from paper checks to debit cards
over the past decade, they began automatically enrolling
customers in overdraft protection plans, with charges of as much
as $35 for each overdrawn transaction.  That lets the 185 million Americans with debit cards make
emergency purchases even if their account is short, banks said.
Consumers soon discovered that a slice of pizza could cost
almost $40 after overdraft fees are assessed. Last year the
 Federal Reserve  barred banks from offering overdraft protection
on debit-card transactions without prior consent from consumers.  A few banks, including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , have since stopped offering overdraft protection
on debit-card purchases. BofA in September announced a $5
monthly charge for debit cards to make up for lost fee revenue.
Others introduced or expanded overdraft programs. An informal
survey by Impact Financial Services, which advises small and
midsize banks, polled 150 community banks and found that 70
percent of them now offer overdraft protection, compared with
about half before the rules took effect.  Marketing Campaigns  Many banks that offer the services have started aggressive
marketing campaigns to get customers to enroll. The banks sent
letters and e-mails explaining the changes, at times with
warnings that if consumers didn’t sign up their card might be
rejected when they most need it. Some banks called customers
who’d had transactions denied to persuade them to opt in.  “We were surprised at the success rate,” said Jefferson Harralson, a bank analyst at research firm Keefe, Bruyette &
Woods Inc.  The marketing campaigns also confused customers. A survey
by the Center for Responsible Lending showed that 60 percent of
consumers who chose overdraft protection did so in part to avoid
penalties if their debit cards were denied, even though such
fees don’t exist. Similarly, two-thirds said they signed up to
sidestep charges for bounced checks, which are covered under
different programs.  Reordering Purchases  Many banks still engage in one highly criticized overdraft
practice: reordering purchases to process the largest ones first,
instead of in chronological order. That means a big purchase may
be approved, and customers could face overdraft charges for
several small transactions. Banks that do this said consumers
prefer the reordering because larger transactions are often the
most important.  U.S. District Judge William Alsup in  California  ruled last
year against  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  in a class action lawsuit about
the practice, calling it “utterly speculative.” Alsup ordered the
bank to pay consumers $203 million for what he called the “bone-
crushing multiplication of additional overdraft penalties.” Wells
Fargo said it’s appealing the ruling, and it now processes
transactions in the order they happened.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Weise in New York at 
 kweise@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eric Gelman at   egelman3@bloomberg.net . 