-- 
Republicans Want to Question Counsel on Solyndra Loan

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-10-20T23:10:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/republicans-want-to-question-energy-counsel-on-solyndra-loan-2-.html
(Corrects timing of loan renegotiation in ninth
paragraph.)  House Republicans  want to interview
the chief counsel for the Energy Department’s loan-guarantee
office, under oath, about her legal memorandum supporting a
rescue effort for Solyndra LLC, the failed solar-panel maker.  Representative  Fred Upton  of  Michigan , chairman of the
House Energy and Commerce Committee, and  Cliff Stearns  of
 Florida , who leads the investigations subcommittee, asked in a
letter today to Energy Secretary Steven Chu that he make Susan
Richardson, the counsel, available for a transcribed interview.  Richardson wrote a Feb. 15 memo declaring legal the
restructuring of Solyndra’s $535 million loan guarantee to put
taxpayer debt behind $75 million in private investment in case
of liquidation. Republicans, who have investigated the guarantee
for eight months, say it violated the 2005 energy law
establishing the loan program.  The memo supporting the department’s decision is a “matter
of particular concern to the committee,” Upton and Stearns
wrote in their letter.  The  Department of Energy  has said while Richardson can be
interviewed for a “discussion,” she isn’t willing to be under
oath except in testifying before the subcommittee, according to
the letter.  “We are therefore puzzled as to why DOE refuses to make
her available for a transcribed interview on the same matters,
and ask you to reconsider your position,” they wrote.  Four Briefings  Damien LaVera, an Energy Department spokesman, said
Richardson has briefed the committee’s staff four times.  “We also offered to work with them to make the appropriate
legal staff from the department available to testify under oath
before the committee if needed after the briefing,” LaVera said
today in an e-mail. Chu told lawmakers he can testify Nov. 1 or
Nov. 2, LaVera said. No hearing date has been set for Chu’s
appearance.  Energy officials, Solyndra executives and investors began
negotiating a new deal in November, before the Fremont,
California-based company defaulted on the guarantee by failing
to set aside $5 million for a  reserve fund  in December 2010.
Terms were reworked in February.  The law affords “the secretary, in a distressed situation,
broad authority to take action that will protect and maximize
the interests of the  United States ,” Richardson wrote.  Republicans point to a clause in the law that states the
taxpayer obligation “is not subordinate to other financing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  