-- 
Rescue Fund Overhaul May Enable Europe to Lend 10% of a Country’s Economy

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-10-20T14:28:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/rescue-fund-overhaul-may-lead-to-aid-for-spain-italy-as-germany-objects.html
Europe ’s bailout fund may be
authorized to provide credit lines of as much as 10 percent of a
country’s economy, a draft document shows.  The enhanced fund, called the European Financial Stability
Facility, may be able to offer loans to countries “before they
face difficulties raising funds,” the draft guidelines obtained
by Bloomberg News show. Credit lines for Spain and  Italy , which
required European Central Bank support, could reach 270 billion
euros ($371 billion).  The guidelines prompted criticism from some German
lawmakers who have opposed bailout aid as  France  and  Germany 
wrangled over the role of the ECB in tackling Europe’s debt
crisis. Finance ministers gather in Brussels tomorrow to set a
common strategy, with leaders scheduled to meet Oct. 23.  “If you open the door to credit facilities of this
enormous scale, they’ll be tapped,”  Frank Schaeffler , a
lawmaker specializing in finance affairs from Merkel’s Free
Democrat Party junior partner, said in an interview today.
“This is not what we mean by ring-fencing Italy and Spain. How
can we create a fund big enough for this? This is surely not in
Germany’s interest.”  The disagreements are so deep that Germany didn’t rule out
delaying the Oct. 23 meeting, Die Welt newspaper reported today,
citing people close to the coalition.  ‘Massive’ Firepower  Italy’s real gross domestic product stood at 1.6 trillion
euros at the end of last year, according to figures  published  by
the  International Monetary Fund  in  Washington . The GDP tally
would mean Italy could tap a “typical” precautionary loan of
up to 160 billion euros, according to the EFSF draft.  Spain ’s
GDP amounted to 1.1 trillion euros last year.  The euro was little changed at $1.3770 at 3 p.m. Berlin
time, after advancing 0.6 percent. The European currency gained
0.4 percent to 106.11 yen.  The document also says that the EFSF, which is authorized
to buy government debt, should buy no more bonds in the primary
market than private investors.  As the summit approaches, the euro-region’s biggest
financial backers Germany and France are still at odds over how
to expand the EFSF’s firepower, accommodating new tools from
precautionary loans to buying bonds in primary and secondary
markets. The draft EFSF guidelines make no mention of how to
boost its 440 billion-euro firepower.  French Position  France favors creating a bank out of the EFSF, boosting its
financial clout with backing from the ECB, a proposal that
Germany rejects, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told
lawmakers in Berlin this week. French Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  said today that the euro region should agree to use
leverage to make the region’s financial support fund
“massive.”  “Some would favor turning to the ECB. This is ruled out by
European treaties,” Schaeuble told reporters in Berlin today.
“There can be no doubt that the German government will never
agree to such a solution.”  European leaders on July 21 pledged to increase the bailout
funds as evidence mounted that  Greece  needed further aid and the
cost of selling Italian and Spanish debt soared. The German
parliament last month approved legislation to revamp the fund
while Schaeuble vowed that “efficient use” of its capital
stock would not entail raising Germany’s burden of 211 billion
euros.  ‘Conditioned Credit’  The draft guidelines show that the enhanced EFSF may offer
two types of “conditioned credit,” depending on the severity
of the threat to their financial health. Member states may
access loans “swiftly” to prevent a crisis, with loans not
merely to be seen “as a liquidity facility,” the draft states.  The draft also addresses bond purchases, advising that the
euro-region financial backstop should buy no more  government
bonds  than private investors in any primary market purchase. It
proposes four options for using the debt.  Primary-market purchases by the enhanced EFSF generally
should be limited to no more than 50 percent of the final issued
amount, say the draft guidelines. The EFSF should participate at
the weighted average price of the auction, it said.  “That means that EFSF’s share is no larger than the share
bought by the market,” the draft says. “It gives an incentive
to the issuer to accept market bids, because for each million of
accepted market bids the member state will receive an additional
million from EFSF.”  ‘Volatile Markets’  The draft also spells out under which circumstances the
EFSF can buy government bonds in the secondary market, citing
“unusually volatile markets, unidirectional movements and
widening of the bid/offer range for prices as a result of poor
liquidity” as potential triggers.  The caps for bond buying programs in the secondary market
for individual countries will be determined on a case-by-case
basis by an EFSF working group, the draft guidelines say. The
EFSF’s overall interventions will have a “more limited scope”
than the ECB’s, it said.  There are four ways the EFSF can use the bonds it purchased
in the primary and secondary markets. It can sell them back to
the market when demand is restored; hold them to maturity; keep
them as available for sale; or use them for repurchasing
operations with commercial banks, the draft guidelines say.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  