-- 
Pamela Anderson Champions Palladium

-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 
2011-10-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/retailers-turn-to-alternatives-as-gold-prices-soar.html
Sarah Greenberg, a jewelry designer
in Oakland,  California , used to craft half of her collection
from gold. Now, she doesn’t even carry pieces made from the
precious metal in stock.  “Bronze has become the gold alternative to me, offering
that warm and yellow look,” said Greenberg, 32, who’s been
promoting the copper-and-tin alloy to local boutiques lately.
“It’s the only way to ensure that the general public can
purchase my jewelry.”  Greenberg isn’t alone in pushing alternative materials.
 Zale Corp. (ZLC) ,  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  and Pandora Jewelry LLC all are
promoting metals such as palladium, bronze and other alloys in
their product lines to attract customers who can no longer
afford pieces made from more expensive metals.  Since 2000, gold has climbed sixfold and platinum has more
than doubled while median U.S. income has slid 7 percent,
adjusted for inflation. The higher prices may contribute to a
4.3 percent decline in gold jewelry demand this year and an
additional 3.9 percent drop next year,  Barclays Capital  said in
a report last month.  The trends are forcing jewelers to get creative with their
accessory choices to lure customers and maintain profit margins,
said Betty Chen, a San Francisco-based analyst at Wedbush
Securities.  Zale  offers titanium wedding bands for less than one tenth
the price of gold rings. Online retailer  Blue Nile Inc. (NILE)  features
palladium wedding bands on its website for $415 to $840, less
than half the prices of comparable platinum pieces. Necklaces in
the fall collection for Francesca’s Holdings Corp. are marketed
as “golden” while selling for less than $100.  Adding Offerings  “Brands are trying to add to their accessories offerings
and bring in as many people as possible,” Chen said in an
interview.  While gold is being displaced by bronze, platinum may be
replaced by palladium, a white-colored metal in the same family
that sells for about 40 percent of the price. The metal, which
also is used in automobiles’ catalytic converters, has dropped
by more than a third since 2000.  Palladium is appealing because aside from being cheaper
than gold or platinum, it doesn’t tarnish like bronze or silver,
said Brooke Brinkman, spokeswoman for the Billings, Montana-
based Palladium Alliance International. The group is funding an
ad campaign for the metal that features former “Baywatch” star
Pamela Anderson and fashion designer Kelly Osbourne touting
palladium.  Receptive Consumers  Consumers in their 20s may be the most receptive to jewelry
made from non-traditional materials, said Pam Danziger,
president of Unity Marketing, a Stevens, Pennsylvania-based
research firm. Younger buyers may view gold more practically,
Danziger said.  “They’re saying, ‘Gold is an investment, not for something
as frivolous as jewelry,’” she said.  People older than the age of 40 may be harder to win over
because they grew up with the idea that only platinum and gold
are true quality, Danziger said.  Brands like Tiffany, whose higher-income shoppers are more
immune to price increases, may not have to adjust as much as
chains such as Zale, said Dorothy Lakner, an analyst at Caris &
Co. in  New York , who said jewelry prices have increased about 15
percent in the past year.  “The higher-end the brand, the easier it is going to be to
pass on price increases,” Lakner said in a telephone interview.
“It’s the lower price-point customers who get fed up easily and
say enough is enough.”  Tiffany Prices  Tiffany already has raised prices in 2011, and Chief
Operating Officer James Fernandez said at a presentation in June
that the company’s customers are able to accept such increases.
The company’s shares have climbed 14 percent this year in New
York, while Zale has dropped 17 percent and Blue Nile has slid
24 percent.  Still, Tiffany offers rose gold, an alloy of the precious
metal and copper, on chains and its signature lock pendant for
less than $250, about half the price of its cheapest regular
gold items.  Until ordinary consumers fully embrace the precious-metal
alternatives, retailers may continue to market their pieces as
tried-and-true classics, Lakner said.  “No one wants to openly wear something they consider to be
less than quality,” Lakner said. “Even if bronze is the new
gold, they are likely to pass it off as something else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  