-- 
Rivero Resigns From Sacyr After Starting Battle With Repsol

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-10-20T17:35:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/rivero-resigns-from-sacyr-after-starting-battle-with-repsol.html
Sacyr Vallehermoso SA (SYV)  Chairman Luis
Del Rivero resigned after he led the construction company into a
battle with  Repsol YPF SA (REP) , its biggest investment.  Del Rivero, 62, will be replaced by Chief Executive Officer
Manuel Manrique, the company said in a regulatory filing after a
board meeting in Madrid today. Demetrio Carceller, Sacyr’s
biggest shareholder, and Juan Abello will be vice chairmen.  The Sacyr board turned against Del Rivero after he forged
an alliance with  Petroleos Mexicanos  to try and wring more
dividend payments out of Repsol as the builder battled to shore
up its finances.  Del Rivero’s resignation is likely to mean that partnership
will be dissolved and Manrique will look to sell part of Sacyr’s
Repsol stake to ease the refinancing of a 4.9 billion-euro ($6.7
billion) loan that comes due in December, according to Bernaldo
de Quiros, a former adviser to the Spanish government who was in
contact with board members during today’s meeting.  Repsol spokesman Kristian Rix declined to comment.  Shareholders including Novacaixagalicia, the Spanish
savings bank that owns 8.75 percent of Sacyr, urged Del Rivero
to back down from the confrontation, arguing a withdrawal would
increase his chances of boosting dividend income.  The Aug. 29 agreement with Pemex aimed to boost earnings,
raise Repsol’s share price, and to install a chief executive
officer to dilute the power of Chairman Antonio Brufau, who is
also CEO.  Del Rivero had been calling on Brufau to raise the Repsol
dividend since a series of press interviews in December 2009. He
also urged the Repsol chairman to sell assets including a 30
percent stake in a Brazilian refinery and in the company’s oil
discoveries in the country in an interview in El Mundo in which
he also declined to endorse Brufau’s leadership.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  