-- 
Rubber Slumps to 14-Month Low as European Debt Concerns Dim Demand Outlook

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-10-20T07:41:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/rubber-slumps-to-14-month-low-as-european-debt-concerns-dim-demand-outlook.html
Rubber plunged to a 14-month low as
a French-German split emerged over  Europe ’s rescue strategy and
Thai floods reduced car production, deepening concern demand
will weaken for the commodity used to make tires.  March-delivery rubber dropped 6.6 percent to close at 281.5
yen a kilogram ($3,669 a metric ton) on the Tokyo Commodity
Exchange, the lowest level since August 2010.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  flew to Germany to join
the talks as leaders assembled in  Frankfurt  in an effort to
narrow divisions before an Oct. 23 summit. Europe’s leaders are
looking for ways to maximize the firepower of the 440 billion-
euro ($605.5 billion) European Financial Stability Facility as
the region’s debt crisis threatens to engulf Italy and Spain.  “Risk aversion by investors increased after the split
between  Germany  and  France  became clear,” Makiko Tsugata, a
commodity analyst at research company Market Risk Advisory in
Tokyo, said today by e-mail.  The European Union is the largest user of natural rubber
after  China , consuming 1.1 million tons last year, according to
the Singapore-based International Rubber Study Group.  Asian stocks fell, oil dropped to a one-week low and copper
declined for a fourth day after Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-
Claude Juncker, who chairs the group of euro-area finance
ministers, indicated an impromptu meeting of European leaders in
Frankfurt last night failed to resolve differences. The Fed’s
Beige Book survey released yesterday showed companies reported
more doubt about the recovery.  ‘Pretty Nervous’  “We remain pretty nervous about Europe’s crisis because we
have yet to see a concrete safety-net being established for the
financial system,” said Mitsushige Akino, who oversees about
$600 million in  Tokyo  at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co.  In  Shanghai , January-delivery rubber tumbled 4.4 percent to
close at 25,445 yuan ($3,985) a ton.  In the cash market, the benchmark Thai rubber price dropped
1.2 percent to 125.6 baht ($4.05) a kilogram today, extending
yesterday’s 2.3 percent decline, the Rubber Research Institute
of  Thailand  said on its website. Prices were pressured by the
suspension of operations by the Thailand units of Honda Motor
Co. and Toyota Motor Corp., according to the group.  Japanese automakers are losing 6,000 units of production a
day because of floods in Thailand, the Japan Automobile
Manufacturers Association said. Nine carmakers were affected by
the disaster, the group said today.  Japanese automakers produced 1.6 million vehicles in
Thailand last year, accounting for more than 90 percent of total
production in the country, according to the group.  “It’s difficult to say when production in Thailand will
return to normal,” Toshiyuki Shiga, chairman of the automakers
group, said at a briefing in Tokyo. “Japanese automakers are
split between temporarily importing parts from other countries
and waiting for the waters to subside.”  The Thai floods may disrupt auto production for at least a
month and cost 23 billion yen in operating profit at Toyota, 11
billion yen at Honda Motor Co. and 6.25 billion yen at Nissan
Motor Co., according to Kohei Takahashi, an analyst in Tokyo at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  