-- 
Rugby World Cup Victory Gives Corporate Career Head Start to Team Captain

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-20T12:02:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/rugby-world-cup-victory-give-corporate-career-head-start-to-team-captain.html
The captain who lifts the  World Cup 
in two days may get a head start for life post-rugby as
professionalism leaves players with less time to prepare for a
career after sport.  New Zealand’s Richie McCaw or  France ’s Thierry Dusautoir
will become the seventh man to raise the Webb Ellis Cup at
Auckland’s  Eden Park . Four of their six predecessors have
transferred those leadership skills to sectors including
finance, publishing and consulting. England’s  Martin Johnson  and
 South Africa ’s  John Smit , the last two victorious captains,
still count rugby as their day job.  “The same ingredients go towards success,” John Eales,
 Australia ’s 1999 World Cup-winning captain, said in a phone
interview. “People have a perception of your reputation and
you’ll still find businesses out there who are prepared to give
you a go as long as you can add value for them.”  After finishing his playing career as the most-successful
Wallabies captain, Eales co-founded Mettle Group, a firm that
advises businesses on corporate culture and leadership which was
acquired in 2007 by  Chandler Macleod Group Ltd. (CMG)  The 41-year-old
Eales straddled rugby’s amateur and professional eras, also
playing at the 1991 World Cup that Australia also won.  Rugby union went professional in the southern hemisphere 16
years ago on the back of a $555 million, 10-year broadcasting
agreement with  News Corp. (NWSA)  Eales, who has advised companies
including  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  and BT Financial Group, where he
began his post-rugby career in 2001, said he was able to
complete a psychology degree before sport became his profession.  Hard to ‘Kick-On’  With rugby dominating their time and opportunities to play
on longer available to them, modern pros face a struggle to get
the necessary qualifications and know-how to move into business
once they’ve retired, said David Kirk, who lifted the 1987 World
Cup as New Zealand captain and later became chief executive
officer of  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ) , Australia’s second-largest
newspaper publisher.  “It’s harder,” Kirk, who quit international rugby at the
age of 26 to take up a Rhodes Scholarship at England’s Oxford
University, said in a phone interview. “You can’t go into your
mid-30s and then expect to pick up the sort of education and
work experience that you need.”  Kirk, 51, is chairman of Australia and New Zealand cinema
group Hoyts Corp. and president of the  New Zealand Rugby
Players’ Association , which has represented current and past
professionals and those playing overseas since 1999.  Flexible Approach  The Auckland-based organization, which advises players on
career development as well as their welfare on and off the
pitch, says they need to be flexible in how they go about
acquiring the qualifications and tertiary education necessary
for a career after rugby.  “Because they don’t have the opportunity to study full-
time, they’ve got to approach the concept differently,” Rob
Nichol, the association’s CEO, said in a telephone interview.
“They’ve got to accept that it will take them longer.”  Dan Vickerman , a second-rower in Australia’s World Cup
squad, opted to take a two-year break from the professional game
to study agricultural economics at  England ’s Cambridge
University before winning back his spot in the Wallabies team.  New Zealand center  Conrad Smith , a member of the All
Blacks’ leadership group, used an injury-enforced break to
complete his law qualifications and fits work at a Wellington-
based legal firm around his rugby commitments.  ‘Serious Potential’  “If he gets a spare day in Wellington, he just walks into
the office and he’s a solicitor,” Nichol said. “Some of these
guys have got serious potential at a business level. The same
attributes and characteristics that make them successful in
terms of high performance sport will make them successful in
business. It’s about them working out how to do that.”  The ability to handle pressure dynamics and execute
collective strategies at rugby’s elite level is transferable to
a business career, according to Australia’s 1991 World Cup-
winning captain Nick Farr-Jones.  “It’s an exact synergy,” Farr-Jones, a director at
Sydney-based Taurus Funds Management Pty Ltd. said in a
telephone interview. “Both are about knowing your exact role
and then following the correct processes to deliver results.”  Farr-Jones, who also worked for  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA in
 Europe  and Australia in the lender’s metal derivative and mining
and commodity businesses, said his time representing the
Wallabies was “an add-on” to his day job as a lawyer in a
Sydney law firm.  While the opposite is the case for McCaw and Dusautoir,
some similarities remain.  “You don’t get to hold up the Webb Ellis trophy by pulling
a team together six months before the event,” Farr-Jones, 49,
said. “It is blood, sweat and tears and often two, three or
four years of procedure and learning from your mistakes. Those
are lessons you can take with you.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Auckland at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  