-- 
Rupee Drops to 1-Month Low on Concern Borrowing Costs Will Rise

-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-10-20T12:41:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/rupee-drops-to-2-week-low-as-europe-rift-drives-funds-to-dollar.html
India ’s rupee dropped to the lowest
level in almost a month on speculation the central bank is set
to raise borrowing costs for the seventh time this year, slowing
economic growth and damping demand for the nation’s assets.  The  Reserve Bank  of India will raise its repurchase rate by
a quarter of a percentage point to 8.50 percent at its policy
review on Oct. 25, according to 13 of 19 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. Six expect no change. Chakravarthy Rangarajan, a top
economic adviser to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, today
signaled the need for higher  interest rates  as food inflation
reached an almost six-month high. The BSE India’s Sensitive
Index of shares fell 0.9 percent.  “We now think the RBI may hike policy rates again on Oct.
25,” analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., including Mumbai-
based Tushar Poddar, wrote in a report published today. This
threatens to push the economic growth rate lower than the bank’s
expected 7 percent in the year ending March 31, they wrote.  The rupee declined 1.3 percent to 49.8075 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched
49.8163 earlier, the weakest level since Sept. 23. Foreign
investors sold a net $72 million worth of Indian shares this
month to Oct. 19, exchange data show, the third straight month
of a cut in holdings.  India doesn’t expect the rupee’s depreciation to last long,
R. Gopalan, secretary, department of economic affairs in the
 finance ministry , said in  Singapore  today.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 50.41 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations for a
rate of 49.85 yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  Editors: Andrew Janes  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  