-- 
Russia’s Micex Index Retreats for Second Day on Europe Debt Woes

-- B y   B r a d   C o o k   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-10-20T15:32:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/russia-s-micex-index-retreats-for-second-day-on-europe-debt-woes.html
Russian stocks  retreated for a
second day on concern demand for commodities will falter as
European leaders struggle to solve the debt crisis.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 30 stocks declined as much as 2.1
percent before paring losses to close down 0.1 percent at
1,418.85 by 6:45 p.m. in Moscow. OAO Lukoil,  Russia ’s second-
biggest oil producer, sank 0.4 percent. OAO Severstal, the
country’s largest steelmaker, lost 1.5 percent. The dollar-
denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  decreased 1.1 percent to 1,423.03.  Copper, nickel and gold prices slumped as  France  and
 Germany  split on the role of the  European Central Bank  in
leveraging the region’s rescue fund. Oil, Russia’s biggest
export earner, fell as much as 1.4 percent.  “The last 24 hours has seen the commodity complex take
something of a buffeting,” Julian Rimmer, a trader of Russian
shares at CF Global Trading in  London , wrote in e-mailed
comments today. “The faithlessness of the financial community
in the ability of European Union policy makers to construct its
big bazooka is unwavering, but the off chance keeps catching
 hedge funds  out.”  Russian stocks have rallied 3.8 percent this quarter amid
hopes that EU policymakers are ready to deal with the banking
crisis by either recapitalizing European lenders or by boosting
the 440 billion-euro ($608 billion) European Financial Stability
Facility’s firepower.  Urals Crude Price  Urals crude, Russia’s main export blend, dropped 0.3
percent to $108.32 a barrel today.  OAO Novolipetsk Steel, billionaire  Vladimir Lisin ’s
steelmaker, fell for a fourth day, losing 1.9 percent to 74.15
rubles. Russian competitors Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel and OAO
Mechel tumbled 1.4 percent to 14.57 rubles and 1.3 percent to
353.9 rubles, respectively.  Russian steelmakers will probably reduce production as they
face difficulties exporting their output amid weakening demand,
according to a UralSib Financial Corp. research report.  “The seasonal slowdown in demand on the domestic market,
as well as the overall uncertainty in the global economy, may
also affect steel market conditions,” Dmitry Smolin and
Valentina Bogomolova, Moscow-based analysts at UralSib, wrote in
the report released yesterday.  Copper for three-month delivery slid 6 percent on the
London Metal Exchange. All metals on the LME fell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brad Cook in Moscow at 
 Bcook7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  