-- 
Saab’s Survival Chances Dwindle as Chinese Investors Cut Offer

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-10-21T12:37:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/saab-s-survival-chances-dwindle.html
Saab Automobile’s chances of
avoiding bankruptcy dwindled after two Chinese companies
backed away from plans to invest in the carmaker.  Pang Da Automobile Trade Co. and Zhejiang Youngman Lotus
Automobile offered to purchase Saab rather than invest in the
automaker’s owner Swedish Automobile NV. The new offer was
rejected, Saab said today in a statement.  The about-face is the second blow to Saab’s efforts to
survive after the company said yesterday that a court-appointed
administrator plans to terminate a voluntary reorganization,
possibly forcing Saab to exit creditor protection. Saab said
today that the court will rule on the request Oct. 28.  The two Chinese companies, which had planned to buy a
combined 53.9 percent stake in Swedish Automobile, offered to
buy the carmaker for a token sum after speaking to the person
overseeing the reorganization, said two people with knowledge of
the matter, declining to be identified discussing private talks.  “If the Chinese are not prepared to pay a reasonable value
for it, the shareholders and creditors are better to let it wind
up,” said  Howard Wheeldon , a senior strategist at BGC Partners
in  London . “So much damage has been made to the brand anyway
these last six months, and it wasn’t doing well before it
imploded. The end is now definitely nigh.”  Swedish Automobile wants Pang Da and Youngman, which had
previously offered to invest 245 million euros ($338 million),
to reaffirm that they are “able and willing to consummate the
agreements that are signed,” Saab’s owner said today in the
statement. “Further discussions are ongoing.”  Shares Drop  Swedish Automobile dropped as much as 10 cents, or 12
percent, to 75 cents and was down 3.5 percent as of 2:34 p.m. in
Amsterdam trading. The stock has dropped 76 percent this year,
valuing the Zeewolde, Netherlands-based company at 24.8 million
euros.  Saab, which has produced few cars since it first halted
production in March because of a lack of money, avoided
bankruptcy last month after a Swedish court granted the
voluntary reorganization. Swedish Automobile today delayed its
third-quarter earnings report to Nov. 30 from Oct. 28, citing
the recent developments.  “Any plan is possible during the process of
reorganization,” Pang Qinghua, chairman of Pang Da, said in a
telephone interview today. “It’s possible for new proposals
popping up during the process.”  Pang Caiping, executive director of Youngman’s passenger
car group said by telephone that all three parts are seeking
“the most beneficial plan.”  Restructuring Termination  Attorney Guy Lofalk, Saab’s court-appointed administrator,
has applied to the Vaenersborg District Court in  Sweden  to
terminate the restructuring. The carmaker will contest the
decision and ask for a new administrator.  For the reorganization to continue, the court must see that
Saab has cash to pay for immediate expenses. Trollhaettan,
Sweden-based Saab said yesterday it received a $70 million
funding pledge from North Street Capital LP, a Greenwich,
Connecticut-based private equity firm.  Those funds, which consist of a loan and share sale, were
aimed at ensuring the continuity of the reorganization. North
Street Capital on Sept. 29 agreed to buy Swedish Automobile’s
Spyker sports-car unit for 32 million euros.  Swedish Automobile said today that its agreement with North
Street is unaffected by Pang Da and Youngman’s new offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  