-- 
SAC Says Cougar Investment Was Based on Public Information

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-10-20T15:58:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/sac-says-cougar-investment-was-based-on-public-information.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP, the $14
billion hedge fund run by  Steven A. Cohen  that’s being
investigated by regulators for  insider trading , said it’s
investment in Cougar Biotechnology Inc. before the company was
bought by  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  in 2009 was “perfectly reasonable”
and based on publicly available information.  “We have not been contacted by any regulatory authority
related to this matter, but we would of course cooperate should
there be an inquiry,” Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for the
Stamford, Connecticut-based firm, said in an e-mailed statement
today.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is examining
trades in Cougar by SAC and other hedge funds to determine if
they profited from inside information of the takeover, the Wall
Street Journal reported today, citing people familiar with the
matter.  SAC Capital, which hasn’t been charged with any wrongdoing,
bought 400 shares in Los Angeles-based Cougar in the fourth
quarter of 2007 and built up its stake to 632,291 shares by the
first quarter of 2009, according to government filings. Cougar
was bought by  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J in July of
that year.  Cougar was subject to speculation that it would be a
takeover target since at least November 2008 when Merger Market,
a Web-based news service, said that it may be bought.  The SEC is investigating whether Leerink Swann LLC, a
Boston-based investment bank that runs an expert-network
consulting firm, leaked nonpublic information to traders, the
Journal said. Such firms connect investors with industry
professionals. Joseph Gentile, a spokesman for Leerink, wasn’t
immediately available for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  