-- 
Sales of Existing U.S. Homes Probably Fell as Lack of Jobs Hurt Confidence

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-10-20T12:54:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/sales-of-existing-u-s-homes-probably-decreased-in-september.html
Sales of existing U.S. homes
probably fell in September, extending a pattern of gains and
losses that shows the industry is being buffeted by a lack of
jobs and confidence, economists said before a report today.  Purchases declined 2.5 percent to a 4.91 million annual
rate, according to the median of 77 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. A Labor Department report today on claims for
 unemployment benefits  showed scant improvement in the pace of
dismissals.  Growing pessimism about the economy, unemployment above 9
percent and limited access to credit are keeping some Americans
from taking advantage of near record-low  mortgage rates .
Foreclosures that are adding to the supply of homes for sale and
driving down prices remain a hurdle for an industry that’s made
little progress more than two years after the recession ended.  “Weakness in housing isn’t going to change in the short or
medium term,” said Jennifer Lee, an economist at BMO Capital
Markets in Toronto. “Talk of recession or slowdown, an
uncertain job market and volatile financial markets are holding
back activity.”  The National Association of Realtors’ data are due at 10
a.m. in  Washington . Economists’ estimates ranged from 4.7
million to 5.1 million.  Jobless claims dropped by 6,000 to 403,000 in the week
ended Oct. 15, today’s Labor Department figures showed. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for a drop to
400,000 applications. The four-week average fell to the lowest
level since April.  Home Prices  A glut of distressed properties on the market is holding
down prices, keeping housing from contributing to the economic
rebound. Unemployment has been 9.1 percent for the last three
months, wages are stagnate and stock prices have dropped this
year on concerns about a European sovereign debt default and
recession.  Default notices rose 14 percent in the third quarter from
the prior three months, a sign lenders may be speeding up the
repossession process, RealtyTrac Inc. said last week.
Foreclosure filings declined 34 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier as states continued to probe allegations of
foreclosure “robo-signings” and lenders scrutinized paperwork,
according to RealtyTrac.  Housing prices keep falling even in the face of near-record
low lending rates. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values
in 20 cities dropped 4.1 percent in July from a year earlier,
the group said Sept. 27. Prices were 31 percent below their July
2006 peak.  Mortgage Rates  The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan dropped to 3.94
percent in the first week of October, the lowest in records
dating back to 1971, according to  Freddie Mac .  Cheaper borrowing costs may help explain why homebuilders
were less pessimistic in October. The National Association of
Home Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment index unexpectedly increased
to 18, the highest level since May 2010, figures showed this
week. Readings less than 50 mean more respondents said
conditions were poor.  Scottsdale, Arizona-based  Meritage Homes Corp. (MTH) , which
builds energy-efficient single-family homes, saw its sales in
the quarter ended in September rise from a year earlier even as
demand remains at “depressed levels,” executive vice president
Brent Anderson said on an Oct. 12 conference call.  “We need to have more people in jobs, good, well-paying,
full-time jobs,” Anderson said. “It’s really a matter of
confidence.”  Builder Shares  Builders have fared worse than the broader stock market.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index, which
includes Meritage and Lennar Corp., has slumped about 21 percent
so far this year, compared with a 3.8 percent drop for the  S&P
500 .  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct 4 that
the central bank was ready to take further steps to boost an
economy that he said was “close to faltering.” Speaking before
Congress’s Joint Economic Committee, Bernanke said  home
construction  was not aiding the expansion, unlike in prior
recoveries.  He said “the overhang of distressed and foreclosed
properties, tight credit conditions for builders and potential
homebuyers, and the large number of ‘underwater’ mortgages”
have hurt home construction.  
To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  