-- 
Savings Wars From Italy to Portugal Drive Bank Costs Higher

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-10-20T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/savings-wars-from-italy-to-portugal-drive-banks-borrowing-costs-higher.html
Spanish fireman Antonio Casado kept
80,000 euros ($110,000) in cash at  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  for
a year and was looking for a place to put it. He had no shortage
of offers.  The Popular branch manager in Madrid tried to sell him a
10-year subordinated bond paying 8.25 percent, Casado, 41, said
in an interview. Other options include commercial paper sold by
Bankia SA or two-year Spanish  government notes  that pay about 4
percent.  “There are so many offers on savings in the market now,”
said Casado, who added he would shun products sold by banks and
instead invest in  Telefonica SA (TEF)  shares, which offer a dividend
yield approaching 10 percent. “It’s probably a good idea not to
have your money tied up for too long.”  Banks in  Portugal ,  Italy  and  Spain , countries on  Europe ’s
southern periphery that have been pummeled by the debt crisis,
are competing to raise funds from savers such as Casado in a
process that risks eroding the margins of lenders and lumbering
economies with higher borrowing costs that will further slow
growth.  The average interest rates on new retail deposits for up to
one year  have jumped  almost 60 percent in Portugal and 72
percent in Italy this year, a sign of how Europe’s debt crisis
is driving up the cost of capturing savings.  Deposit Rates Rise  “Everyone is chasing your money now, from the banks to the
government,” said  Javier Santoma , a professor of financial
management at IESE business school in  Barcelona . “The only way
this can really stop is when the underlying problem is addressed
and public finances are put in order.”  The rate paid on new  bank deposits  for up to a year has
climbed in Portugal to 4 percent from 2.56 percent in December
and in Italy to 2.41 percent from 1.40 percent, according to
data from the  European Central Bank .  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) ,
Portugal’s biggest publicly traded bank, is offering a 4.83
percent average annual return on three-year deposits of more
than 1,000 euros.  In September,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s second-largest
bank, sold two-year bonds yielding 4.5 percent to customers
transferring cash from competitors.  Spain Checks Rates  In Spain, the government acted in May to penalize banks
that offered what it deemed to be overly aggressive deposit
rates by requiring them to make extra contributions to deposit
guarantee funds. Average rates for new bank deposits have held
steady this year in Spain at about 2.6 percent.  That hasn’t stopped banks from competing to lure savings
with products such as the commercial paper that  Bankia is
selling  to retail clients to raise 1 billion euros. Governments,
both national and regional, are in on the act after states
including Catalonia and  Andalusia  offered bonds for sale.  “Competition for retail deposits for Spanish banks is
probably tougher now than they envisaged it would be six months
ago,” said Daragh Quinn, an analyst at Nomura International in
Madrid.  The higher retail funding costs of banks are a symptom of a
lock-down in wholesale debt markets that has stoked competition
for customer savings as lenders shrink their balance sheets to
show investors their funding bases are secure.  Wholesale Funding  The five largest banks in Italy, Spain and Portugal
combined have more than 200 billion euros in medium- and long-
term debt maturing before 2013, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The last time a Portuguese bank tapped wholesale debt
markets was in March 2010, while  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ’s 1 billion-
euro sale of bonds in June was the most recent by a Spanish
lender.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s largest bank, paid a record
spread for Italian covered bonds in August when it raised 1
billion euros from a sale of 10-year notes that yielded 215
basis points more than the benchmark mid-swap rate.  Banco Espirito said in August that it trimmed lending by
3.1 percent from a year earlier and boosted customer funds by 23
percent to bring its loan-to-deposit ratio down to 155 percent
from 198 percent a year earlier. A lower loan-to-deposit ratio
is a sign the bank is less reliant on sources of funding such as
bond sales to fund its business.  Santander expects lending at its Spanish branch network to
shrink 3 percent a year through 2013 after it brought down the
loan-to-deposit ratio at the unit to 134 percent from 159
percent in 2009.  ‘Banks Are Suffering’  “Regarding the increasing rates by Portuguese banks on
deposits, the situation is difficult, but it has an easy
explanation: no bank has been able to go to the wholesale debt
markets since spring last year,” said Andre Rodrigues, an
analyst at Caixa-Banco de Investimento SA in Lisbon. “It’s a
sign of how the banks are suffering.”  The economies of the three countries are bearing the brunt
of the rising financing costs as the banks pass them to
customers by increasing  interest rates  on loans.  The average interest rate on new loans in Portugal of up to
1 million euros to companies jumped to 7.23 percent in August
from 5.9 percent in December, according to ECB data, while in
Spain it climbed to 4.6 percent from 3.8 percent. In Italy, they
increased to about 4.1 percent from 3.2 percent.  Credit Drying Up  “The banks are re-pricing massively and all this is also
having a negative impact on lending volumes,” said  Ronny Rehn ,
a banking analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods Ltd. in  London .
“It’s going to be another factor that will help drag Italy into
recession next year.”  In Spain, deposits of euro-area residents fell 0.4 percent
from a year ago, according to ECB  data . In Portugal, deposits
rose 5.7 percent and 4.3 percent in Italy, the ECB said.  For Casado, the Spanish fireman, banks competing for his
savings mean more choice of products, not necessarily greater
peace of mind.  “I have doubts about the health of the Spanish banks,” he
said. “There could be some negative surprises in the months to
come.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  