-- 
Scene Last Night: Novelists Eugenides, Franzen, Man-Cave

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-10-20T19:15:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/scene-last-night-jeffrey-eugenides-jonathan-franzen-esquire-s-man-cave.html
Novelist Jeffrey Eugenides was
nursing his second Manhattan of the evening -- “It’s my book-
tour drink of choice” -- while author Jonathan Franzen enjoyed
the city’s silhouette.  “I am seldom stirred anymore by the sight of the Manhattan
skyline,” said Franzen. “Tonight I was spontaneously stirred.
It’s a beautiful city.”  The publishing house Farrar, Straus and Giroux threw a book
party last night for Eugenides’ “The Marriage Plot” at the Top
of the Standard, a venue in line with the publisher’s lavish
marketing efforts that have also included a Times Square
billboard.  The last book party the publisher threw for Eugenides
celebrated his 2002 novel “Middlesex,” which went on to win
the Pulitzer Prize. That one took place at Fiamma in SoHo, chef
 Michael White ’s restaurant, now closed.  “It’s been a long time since anyone threw a book party
this fancy,” said Jamie Pallot, executive director of
multimedia at  Vanity Fair .  “It’s the most glamorous literary party of the year,”
said architect and author James Sanders, who had his book party
at a bar called the Park.  Among the guests were novelists Jhumpa Lahiri and Zadie
Smith; the editor of T Magazine, Sally Singer; the editorial
director of the  New Yorker , Henry Finder; and Lorin Stein,
editor of the Paris Review.  The literary future was represented by two seniors at
 Princeton University  who are creative writing students of
Eugenides, Megan Hogen and Alyssa Loh.  “I feel like, even if I had been to hundreds of parties,
this one would still be the best,” Hogen said.  Bachelor Pad  One great thing about the ultimate bachelor pad  Esquire 
magazine has assembled in the Brooklyn area known as Dumbo is
that it doesn’t matter who shows up.  Sigourney Weaver  and  Mario Batali  were expected last night
at a fundraiser for the  Natural Resources Defense Council . They
didn’t come, and it was no big deal. The apartment itself is
entertainment.  The gym has a rubber floor that looks like leather or
slate. It cost about $8,000. The bicycle cost $10,000. “The
idea was to blow the budget,” the room’s designer, Denise
Kuriger, said.  The magazine recruits brands as marketing partners to
decorate the apartment -- Asics paid for the gym. The bedroom
closet is stocked with Ermenegildo Zegna suits. Much of the
furniture was designed by Shelley Starr. There’s a Bloomberg
terminal in the living room.  Clock Windows  Many of the 300 guests congregated around the four massive
clock windows on the apartment’s main floor. They are a remnant
of the apartment’s original function as the clock tower of a
cardboard factory built in 1915. The Walentas family’s Two Trees
Management Co. converted the building into condominiums,
finishing this unit last. No one has ever lived here.  The working clocks’ roman numerals and hands are the
original ironwork. The faces are now glass, offering expansive
views of the city.  The three other floors, including a partially open deck,
are nested within the apartment, accessible by a glass elevator
or an open staircase.  Several bachelorettes talked about the party food: pulled-
pork sandwiches (delicious), mac-and-cheese squares (an Esquire
party fixture, apparently) and pigs in a blanket (with a
croissant-like wrapping).  The Esquire Apartment is hosting two other charity events:
on Oct. 24 for International Medical Corps and Dec. 1 for  City
of Hope .  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 