-- 
Schneider Cuts 2011 Earnings Target on Costs

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-10-20T10:45:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/schneider-cuts-2011-earnings-target-on-rising-cost-charges-1-.html
Schneider Electric SA (SU) , the world’s
biggest maker of low- and medium-voltage equipment, reduced its
2011 profit goal for the second time in four months because of
rising labor costs in emerging markets and said it may cut jobs.  Earnings before interest, taxes and amortization will
probably amount to about 14 percent of revenue this year, down
from a July forecast of about 15 percent, the Rueil-Malmaison,
France-based company said today. Schneider fell the most in
almost three years in Paris trading.  “Western Europe is stagnating in the third quarter, which
points to a more uncertain and difficult environment,” Chief
Financial Officer Emmanuel Babeau said in a phone interview.
“We’re going to make more restructuring and adjustments.”  Chief Executive Officer Jean-Pascal Tricoire, who pledged
in July to boost prices in the second half of this year to make
up for rising raw-material costs that held back profitability in
the first six months, now faces the prospect of a global
economic slowdown triggered by  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis.
Restructuring that includes workforce reductions will affect
countries such as the U.S.,  Spain  and  Egypt , Babeau said.  Schneider dropped as much as 9.9 percent to 40.20 euros,
the biggest intraday decline since Oct. 24, 2008, and was down
7.4 percent at 12:43 p.m. in Paris. The stock has fallen 26
percent this year.  Additional Charges  Additional charges this half will cut the Ebita margin by a
range of 0.2 percentage point to 0.4 percentage point, and
increase full-year restructuring costs to within 140 million
euros ($193 million) to 180 million euros from an initial 100
million-euro estimate, the CFO said.  Third-quarter sales rose 4.6 percent, led by  China  and
 India . Revenue growth stalled in western Europe, Schneider said.  Wage inflation in emerging economies, stagnating revenue in
Europe and a higher-than-expected increase in sales of lower-
profit service contracts such as security-systems management and
renewable-energy projects contributed to the reduction of the
2011 target, Babeau said. The target excludes acquisition and
integration costs and the effects of consolidating purchases
this year.  “For most of the big geographies, China, India,  Russia , we
are between 5, 6, and 8 or even north of 8 percent inflation,”
the CFO said on a conference call. Pay increases in such markets
need to exceed inflation to enable the company to attract
talent, and Schneider will have to compensate for those costs
with price increases “over time.”  Raising Prices  The company is likely to achieve its full-year target of
raising prices by 1 percent to partly offset about 400 million
euros of increased raw-material costs, Babeau said. Schneider’s
plan to trim inventories by about 300 million euros in the
second half “isn’t a walk in the park,” as sales growth varies
across divisions and “we have to manage various objectives at
the same time” in terms of production.  Schneider lifted inventories in the first half to minimize
a potential disruption in its supply chain caused by the
earthquake in  Japan  on March 11.  Third-quarter sales rose to 5.70 billion euros, Schneider
said today, beating analysts’ estimates of 5.56 billion euros.
Excluding acquisitions and currency effects, sales climbed 7.7
percent. Exchange-rate fluctuations held back growth by 3.3
percentage points. Schneider reiterated a full-year target of a
6 percent to 9 percent increase in like-for-like sales.  “Beyond 2011, we are getting our organization prepared for
our next company program covering the period 2012 to 2014,”
Tricoire said in the statement. “We are also preparing for
different 2012 economic scenarios in order to generate a solid
margin and cash performance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois De Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  