-- 
Scotiabank Buys Colpatria in Biggest International Purchase

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-10-20T16:13:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/scotiabank-to-buy-control-of-colombia-s-colpatria-lender-for-1-billion.html
Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , Canada’s third-
largest bank, agreed to buy a 51 percent stake in Colombia’s
Banco Colpatria Red Multibanca Colpatria SA for about $1 billion
in its largest international takeover.  Scotiabank agreed to pay $500 million in cash and 10
million in common shares for the consumer bank, the Toronto-
based lender said today in a statement.  “Colombia is very behind compared to developed countries,
or Brazil and  Chile ,” said David Pelaez, a financial-industry
analyst at Medellin-based brokerage Bolsa y Renta. “It can
handle larger growth rates than other countries, which makes it
attractive.”  Chief Executive Officer Richard Waugh has spent more than
$2.5 billion in the past five years on acquisitions outside
 Canada , including stakes in banks in Brazil and  China .
International banking represented 27 percent of the lender’s
C$1.29 billion in profit during the fiscal third quarter.  “The more we looked at Colombia, the more excited we got
about the economic potential,” Brian Porter, Scotiabank’s group
head of international banking, said today in a telephone
interview. “This is not the Colombia of old, it’s a very, very
different country.”  Colombia’s financial sector was slow to recover from a 1999
economic crisis as the government fought against guerrillas and
drug traffickers, Pelaez said.  Fifth-Largest Bank  Private sector credit grew 27 percent in August from a year
ago to 169 trillion pesos ($88.9 billion), according to the
website of Colombia’s securities regulator.  Banco Colpatria , Colombia’s fifth-largest financial group,
had revenue in 2010 of 939 billion pesos ($490 million), a 3
percent increase from a year earlier. Profit climbed 22 percent
to 192 billion pesos in 2010, according to a May regulatory
filing. Colpatria has assets of $6.2 billion and operates 175
branches. The Bogota-based bank is the second-biggest credit-
card issuer in the country.  Scotiabank is paying for about half the purchase in shares
to maintain its capital levels, which lag behind other Canadian
lenders, said  John Aiken , a bank analyst at  Barclays Capital  in
Toronto.  Julie Dickson, Canada’s banking superintendent, has urged
banks to conserve capital as they prepare for new Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision standards.  “Obviously the vendor felt a high degree of comfort in
taking shares in consideration,” Scotiabank’s Porter said.
“They’re cognizant of our historic returns, both in terms of
growing dividends and share appreciation over time.”  Capital Ratios  “What is notable in this case was that there was an
issuance of shares as part of the deal,” said Aiken, in a note
to clients.  Scotiabank Chief Financial Officer Luc Vanneste reiterated
that the bank expects to have a Tier 1 capital ratio of 7
percent to 7.5 percent by the first quarter of 2013.  Scotiabank has the right to bid for the remaining 49
percent of Colpatria after seven years, Vanneste said on a
conference call with analysts today.  Colpatria is headed by Eduardo Pacheco, also the chairman
of Mineros SA, the country’s largest gold producer. His father
and Colpatria founder Carlos Pacheco Devia died in April.  Pacheco Devia began the company in 1955 with a small firm
that was later rolled into banking, insurance and construction
and financing units.  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s finance unit agreed
to sell back its 49.77 percent stake in Banco Colpatria to the
Pacheco family’s Mercantil Colpatria in May for an undisclosed
amount, according to a statement from  GE Capital .  Changing Partners  “What Colpatria is doing is simply changing partners,”
said Pelaez. “They’d be substituting General Electric for
another bank, because they want to have that international
alliance with a company that can invest in technology and help
the bank grow.”  Pelaez said competition is high between foreign banks
seeking acquisitions in Colombia as the top companies in the
market, including Grupo Aval Acciones y Valores SA,  Bancolombia
SA (CIB)  and Banco Davivienda SA, aren’t for sale.  The deal with Scotiabank will put Colpatria in the “big
leagues” of finance as it pursues an expansion plan in  Latin
America , said Luis Santiago Perdomo, president of Banco
Colpatria.  “Given Scotiabank’s size, it’s a strategic alliance that
will allow us to evaluate purchases for growth,” Perdomo said
by phone from Bogota.  He said the company’s shareholders have no plans to sell
their remaining 49 percent of shares or fire any of the bank’s
3,900 employees.  50 Countries  Scotiabank made its first acquisition in  Colombia  in July
2010 when it bought an investment-banking business from Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Scotiabank, which has units in 50 countries including
Mexico, Thailand and  Peru , had identified Colombia as a region
for potential Latin American expansion.  Latin America’s fourth-largest economy, worth $289 billion,
is expected to expand by 4.7 percent in 2011-12, the Canadian
bank said. The population of 45 million is higher than Canada
and is the third largest in the region.  Scotiabank fell 39 cents to C$51.34 in 11:31 a.m. trading
on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  The Colpatria investment is the second-biggest purchase by
a Canadian bank of a lender in Latin America and the Caribbean
in the past decade, after  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ’s 2007 takeover
of RBTT Financial Holdings Ltd. in  Trinidad & Tobago  for $2.19
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank of Nova Scotia’s biggest purchase abroad before
Colpatria was the $810 million takeover of Banco del Desarrollo
of Chile in 2007.  UBS AG (UBSN)  is advising Banco Colpatria’s parent, Mercantil
Colpatria, on the transaction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 