-- 
SEC to Weigh Hedge Fund Rule on Systemic Risk Data Analysis

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-20T19:55:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/sec-to-weigh-hedge-fund-rule-for-gathering-systemic-risk-data.html
Hedge funds  and private-equity funds
will be asked to deliver “extraordinary amounts” of new data
to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission under a rule set
for a vote next week, said SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro .  Under the version of the rule proposed by the SEC on Jan.
26, firms managing more than $1 billion would have to file
quarterly information on fund assets, leverage, investment
positions, valuation and trading practices on a new Form PF.
That added oversight would also come with routine inspections.  “We have high hopes for the Form PF data,” Schapiro said
today at a Managed Funds Association meeting in  New York . The
form was a requirement in last year’s Dodd-Frank Act, and
Schapiro said the information will help her agency and the
Financial Stability Oversight Council “understand where the
risks are in the financial system.”  The January proposal described how the regulators will use
the new data to assess whether a firm threatens to destabilize
the financial system, as in the 1998 collapse of Long Term
Capital Management LP. The SEC is set to vote on the final
version of the Form PF rule Oct. 26.  Separately, Dodd-Frank requires the SEC to set up
registration rules for private fund advisers. The registration,
adopted in June, requires the reporting of “census-like data”
on employees, investors and assets they manage. Unlike the
registration data, the Form PF information wouldn’t be public.  Short-Selling  Also today, Schapiro said the SEC wouldn’t consider short-
selling bans such as those being weighed in  Europe . So-called
naked short selling, in which traders bet on an investment’s
decline but don’t borrow shares as in regular shorting, was
temporarily limited by the SEC in the 2008 credit crisis.  “I can’t envision the SEC doing another short-selling
ban,” she said.  Schapiro also cautioned hedge funds to make sure they have
“robust compliance policies” in light of recent insider-
trading cases involving funds’ dealings with expert networks,
such as in the conviction and July sentencing of former SAC
Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager Donald Longueuil to a 30-
month prison sentence.  “We’re right in the middle of so many cases and
investigations,” Schapiro said, adding that funds should be
“extraordinarily careful.”  She said there is a “pretty bright line” between
legitimate research and insider information and crossing it
“absolutely undermines confidence in the integrity of our
marketplace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 