-- 
Citibank Case Shows SEC Struggling to Punish Top Bank Officers for Crisis

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/sec-cases-bypass-top-execs-to-target-employees-for-negligence.html
A central piece of evidence against
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  that led to a $285 million settlement with the
Securities and Exchange Commission is an e-mail message from a
former employee to his supervisor.  “Don’t tell” a counterparty that Citigroup is shorting
the security, former employee Brian Stoker wrote in 2006 to his
unnamed supervisor. The agency sued Stoker, saying he was
responsible for structuring the deal in which Citigroup failed
to disclose that it had chosen about half the assets and was
betting they would decline in value. No charges were announced
against the supervisor.  That detail highlights a pattern in SEC enforcement cases
that is drawing criticism from lawyers and lawmakers: Even as
the agency has collected  $2 billion  in penalties from financial
firms for wrongdoing related to the 2008 financial crisis, few
top executives have been sanctioned, particularly in connection
with complex instruments like collateralized-debt obligations.  “It’s very good to hold a corporation responsible, but
these corporations are run by people,” Representative Michael Capuano, a Massachusetts Democrat and senior member of the House
Financial Services subcommittee on investigations, said in an
interview. “It’s impossible for me to believe” a firm would
allow an individual to make deals without supervision that later
“are found to be so beyond the pale that someone has to pay
hundreds of millions of dollars in punishment.”  Stoker’s attorney, Fraser Hunter, said his client will
“defend this lawsuit vigorously.”  The settlement with Citigroup announced yesterday was the
third-largest to come from conduct related to the 2008 financial
crisis. The biggest was a $550 million settlement with  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  announced in July 2010, and the second-largest
was a $300 million settlement with  State Street Corp. (STT)  announced
in February 2010.  ‘Don’t Tell’  In its  complaint , the SEC said Citigroup failed to tell
investors in a $1 billion collateralized-debt obligation about
its role in picking the assets. In an e-mail describing the
transaction, in which Credit Suisse Alternative Capital acted as
collateral manager, Stoker called it the Citigroup trading
desk’s “prop trade (don’t tell CSAC).” He added, “CSAC agreed
to terms even though they don’t get to pick the assets.”  In another e-mail cited by the SEC, an unnamed CDO trader
characterized the deal as “possibly the best short EVER.”  The SEC has faced growing criticism from investors,
lawmakers and judges who have claimed the agency has been more
concerned about reaching expedient settlements with companies
than rooting out wrongdoing by individuals that may have
contributed to the 2008 financial crisis.  SEC officials have countered that many of the causes of the
financial crisis involved poor decision-making that might not
qualify as illegal.  Not Fraud  “Let’s keep in mind that obviously not all losses in the
financial crisis resulted from fraud and misconduct,” SEC
Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said yesterday in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. “We can’t sue people based
on poor judgment or poor risk-management policies or procedures
or investments that perform badly.”  Because of that, the SEC has considered unconventional
means to call out conduct that may have been legal even though
it was harmful. In the absence of evidence that Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. technically violated accounting rules before it
collapsed in September 2008, enforcement attorneys have weighed
the option of issuing a report rebuking the firm’s use of
questionable accounting maneuvers instead of pursuing an
enforcement action, according to three people with direct
knowledge of the matter.  Negligence  In addition, SEC investigators are opting to bring more
cases based on negligence claims such as failing to disclose, a
lower legal standard than intentional or reckless fraud, in
order to reach more individuals, a person with direct knowledge
of the matter said.  Frustration with that policy has erupted in a number of
court cases. For instance, U.S. District Court Judge Jed Rakoff
rejected a $33 million agreement between the SEC and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  in 2009 over the company’s disclosures about
bonuses and losses while acquiring Merrill Lynch & Co. Rakoff,
who later approved a $150 million settlement covering broader
allegations, questioned why officers or directors hadn’t been
sued.  Rakoff’s opinion was echoed last year by U.S. District
Court Judge  Ellen Huvelle , who reviewed the SEC’s proposed $75
million settlement with Citigroup to resolve claims the bank
misled investors about its exposure to subprime mortgages in
2007.  ‘Who’s Responsible?’  “When you bring this long complaint and make it sound like
there have been all these misdeeds, who’s responsible?” Huvelle
asked the SEC at an August 2010 hearing in  Washington . “These
things don’t happen without individuals.”  The agency has targeted firms across the mortgage industry,
including loan originators such as Countrywide Financial Corp.,
investment banks, collateral managers and, recently, credit-
rating firms.  Standard & Poor’s , the world’s largest provider of
credit ratings, said last month it may face SEC sanctions for
giving top grades to a mortgage-backed security before it
plummeted in value.  The agency said it has sanctioned 39 senior officers for
conduct related to the financial crisis, including  Angelo Mozilo , the former Countryside chief executive officer who
agreed last year to pay $67.5 million to resolve claims he
misled investors about the lender’s exposure to subprime loans.  ‘Recklessly’  Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC can sue an individual who
“recklessly” aids a fraud even if the person isn’t aware of
the wrongdoing. Previously, lawyers had to show the person
knowingly assisted the misconduct. The law also allows the
agency to sue senior officers, directors or other people
directly or indirectly accountable for the fraud. Those
provisions, passed in 2010, cannot be applied retroactively to
conduct connected to the financial crisis.  Particularly in cases involving CDOs, the SEC has failed to
bring cases against executives other than relatively junior
employees, said  James Cox , a securities law professor at  Duke
University  in Durham,  North Carolina .  “These are big products, large numbers, with lots of
people’s involvement,” said Cox. “It’s not the sort of thing
that you let somebody loose on and not pay attention to it as a
supervisor.”  Cases Dropped  In some instances, the SEC has developed cases against more
senior employees only to balk at bringing claims.  The SEC sued Goldman Sachs trader Fabrice Tourre in April
2010 after dropping a plan to file claims against his boss,
Jonathan Egol, according to interviews with SEC enforcement
staff conducted by the agency’s inspector general, which were
made available to Bloomberg News through a Freedom of
Information Act request.  In its $153 million CDO settlement with  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  in June, the SEC sued Edward Steffelin for his role as
collateral manager, dropping a plan to sanction  Michael Llodra ,
who was a senior executive at JPMorgan involved in the deal.
Tourre and Steffelin are both fighting the SEC claims in court.  “We’re never going to put a face or faces on this
crisis,” said Cox. “It’s going to be the crisis of
anonymity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  