-- 
September Losers Now Best Junk Bonds as Housing Debt Rallies: China Credit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-20T04:28:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/september-losers-now-best-junk-bonds-as-housing-debt-rallies-china-credit.html
Junk-rated dollar-denominated bonds
sold by Chinese companies, the world’s worst performers in
September, are generating the highest returns this month as
investors bet the nation will weather global economic turmoil.  High-yield bonds, primarily issued by the nation’s real
estate companies, gained 15.6 percent in October, after losing
20.5 percent last month, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data. That compares with 10 percent returns on similar
bonds in  India  and 2.6 percent in the U.S., the data show.
 Franshion Properties China Ltd. (817) ’s dollar bonds rose the most,
with a 32 percent increase while Guangdong-based developer
 Country Garden Holdings Co. (2007) ’s debt gained 17 percent.  Chinese bonds are surging along with debt in other Asian
markets as speculation increases that European leaders will stem
a debt crisis that began in Greece in 2009 and the U.S. will
avoid entering a recession.  China’s economy  grew 9.1 percent in
the three months to Sept. 30 from a year earlier, the ninth
consecutive quarterly rise of more than 9 percent, according to
statistics bureau data.  “While I don’t think the U.S. and  Europe  can resolve their
issues in the next few months, China will be doing fine in terms
of its economy and policy,”  Steve Wang , the Hong Kong-based
head of fixed income research at BOCI Securities, a unit of Bank
of China Ltd. said yesterday. “We hit the panic button again
and the bonds sold rather quickly. I don’t think it will go back
to the worst-case scenario we witnessed in 2008 and if it does
it’s another buying opportunity.”  Lending Curbed  Chinese property companies access to credit tightened after
a two-year lending boom on concern new home price increases will
stoke inflation in the world’s second-largest economy. Policy
makers have curbed lending, while limiting house purchases and
mortgages.  The finances of most of the major Chinese property
developers are better now than in 2008 and the government’s
monetary tightening policy may be at its peak, BOCI Securities’
Wang said in an Oct. 18 report. “We remain convinced the
Chinese property bonds continue to offer one of the best values
in the global high-yield space,” he wrote.  Junk bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  Relative yields on dollar-denominated debt sold by Chinese
companies are poised for their biggest monthly drop in more than
two years and the most among BRIC nations, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes show.  European Summit  Chinese bonds yield an average 685 basis points more than
 U.S. Treasuries , down 161 basis points, or 1.61 percentage point,
this month, the data show. Yield premiums on dollar-denominated
debt sold by Russian companies declined 124 basis points to 519,
while spreads on Indian and Brazilian bonds narrowed 81 and 60,
JPMorgan indexes show.  Europe’s leaders will meet in Brussels on Oct. 23 to
determine a recapitalization plan for the region’s lenders.
Banks are charging each other more for short-term loans, in part
because of concern that borrowers will face further writedowns
on sovereign debt from  Greece  and other southern European
nations.  The three-month London interbank offered rate for dollars,
or Libor, rose to a 14-month high of 0.41167 percent yesterday,
data on the most widely used measure of bank lending costs from
the British Bankers Association show.  “There’s nothing fundamental about what’s going on in this,
it’s just all seat of the pants, panic, fear and greed,”
 Anthony Michael , Aberdeen’s regional head of fixed income, said
in an interview in  Hong Kong  yesterday. “In the pointy end of
the credit markets and Asian high yield market, it’s all about
 market sentiment .”  ‘Selective Easing’  China may undertake targeted measures to support growth as
the situation in Europe clouds the outlook for exports and small
companies complain of a funding squeeze. The central bank will
keep rates on hold for the rest of the year, while “selective
easing” may include ensuring funding for small and medium-sized
companies and a government housing program, according to
JPMorgan.  The People’s Bank of  China  has injected cash into the
financial system every week for the past three months to help
ease the cash shortage, pumping in a total 565 billion yuan ($89
billion). The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of interbank
funding availability, tumbled 154 basis points this month to
3.47 percent, according to a daily fixing published by the
National Interbank Funding Center.  ‘Severe’ Challenges  The central bank hasn’t raised  interest rates  since an
increase in July took benchmark one-year borrowing costs to 6.56
percent. Policy makers have also boosted the amount lenders must
keep in reserve on nine occasions in the past year to help tame
inflation.  Consumer prices climbed 6.1 percent in September from a
year earlier, exceeding the government’s full-year target of 4
percent. Exports from China rose 17.1 percent in September from
a year ago, the least in seven months, customs bureau data
released on Oct. 13 showed. The bureau warned of “severe”
challenges as the global economic outlook deteriorates.  Relative yields on local-currency corporate bonds are also
dropping after reaching a record last week. The premium that
top-rated issuers pay over government debt to borrow for 10
years has narrowed nine basis points from 236 basis points on
Oct. 11, according to Chinabond data going back to March 2006.  Yields on 10-year Chinese  government bonds  have slipped
from a three-year high of 4.13 percent reached on Aug. 30 and
were at 3.74 percent on Oct. 18. The yuan gained 0.06 percent to
close at 6.3775 per dollar yesterday in  Shanghai , according to
the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  Default Swaps  Five-year credit-default swaps on China’s sovereign bonds
have fallen 58 basis points from a more-than two-year high of
201 basis points on Oct. 3, according to CMA, which is owned by
CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The contracts pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  Investors from Deutsche Bank AG to BlackRock Inc. are
accelerating purchases of  junk bonds  as relative yields decline
at the fastest pace this year. Spreads have dropped 2.9 percent
this month, the most since September 2010, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. High Yield Master II Index.  BlackRock, the world’s biggest money manager, is buying
speculative-grade bonds as the chance of a severe U.S. economic
slowdown wanes, Rick Rieder, chief investment officer of
fundamental fixed income at the firm in  New York , said in a
Bloomberg Television interview on Oct. 13. Deutsche Bank is also
moving into high-yield fixed income and away from the highest-
rated corporate debt, Kevin Lecocq, the head of global
investment solutions at Deutsche Bank’s private wealth
management unit said on Oct. 13 on Bloomberg TV.  “The rally in global risk assets makes the relative
pricing for most assets appear more attractive,”  Viktor Hjort ,
the Asia head of fixed income research Morgan Stanley, said in a
phone interview from Hong Kong yesterday. “I would say calling
China’s high-yield property bonds now the most challenging it’s
been in over a year as valuations are in no-man’s land.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  