-- 
Sky Deutschland Adds Sports News Channel to Push Market Gain

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-10-20T16:16:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/sky-deutschland-adds-sports-news-channel-for-german-language-market-gains.html
Sky Deutschland AG (SKYD) , the German pay-
television operator part-owned by  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp.,
said it’s counting on a 24-hour sports-news channel to win
viewers and gain  brand recognition  in German-speaking markets.  The channel, which has received about 48 million euros ($66
million) from a shareholder loan from New York-based News Corp.,
is scheduled to go on the air Dec. 1, the day before the draw
for next year’s UEFA European soccer championship matches in
Poland and Ukraine.  The sports outlet will have about 100 days to ease into
operations before the German Bundesliga soccer final in the
spring of 2012 followed by the UEFA event and the  Olympic Games ,
Carsten Schmidt, Sky Deutschland’s chief officer of sports,
advertising sales and Internet, said in an interview at the
Medientage conference in Munich.  “By then we want to be positioned in  Germany  and Austria
as one of the sources where people tune in to get the latest
sports news,” Schmidt said. By the second half of the year, the
success will be measured in viewing numbers, churn rates and
advertising, he said. “All that will lead to a judgment as to
how successful we are.” He declined to specify targets.  Sky, based in the Munich suburb of Unterfoehring, has
struggled to become profitable amid a competitive free-
television market in Germany. Chief Executive Officer Brian Sullivan has started premium services, expanded cable
distribution deals, reached an access agreement for  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s Xbox game console and offered links for mobile devices
since taking charge in April 2010.  Current Offerings  The German company is 49.9 percent owned by  News Corp. (NWSA)  Its
current Sky-branded sports offerings include a channel each for
Bundesliga games, other European soccer matches, other sport
events worldwide and Austrian basketball and soccer. In
addition, customers can subscribe to packages that include the
multinational Eurosport network or a high-definition version of
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN from the U.S.  Sky Deutschland is hoping that the new sports-news
channel’s website, by making “a lot” of video content
available for free sampling, will entice users to upgrade to
other Sky packages, Schmidt said in the interview yesterday.  Schmidt said he also wants to encourage public outlets,
such as bars with TV screens, to show more of Sky’s programming,
rather than limiting themselves to a few nights a week when
Bundesliga or UEFA Champions League soccer games are broadcast.  “I hope that we will see in a couple of months that bars
tune in all day,” Schmidt said.  “Currently we are mostly seen as a company offering  pay
television  for live football and Hollywood movies without
advertising interruption,” Schmidt said. “With this channel,
we are adding relevance. This is something that helps the brand
and our medium-term development, so the return on investment is
not only seen by numbers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Munich via 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  