-- 
Slovenia Debt Rating Cut by S&P on Weak Fiscal Position, Growing Debt Pile

-- B y   V i v e k   S h a n k a r   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-10-20T09:10:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/slovenia-cut-to-aa-a-1-by-s-p-on-weak-fiscal-position-growing-debt-pile.html
Slovenia, like fellow euro members
 Spain  and Italy, had its sovereign credit ratings cut by
 Standard & Poor’s  due to a deteriorating fiscal outlook as
 Europe ’s debt crisis takes its toll.  The long-term rating of the Alpine nation that adopted the
euro in 2007 was reduced to AA- from AA with a stable outlook,
S&P said in a statement dated today. The AA- level is the
fourth-highest ranking and on a par with non-euro regional peer,
the  Czech Republic .  “The downgrade reflects our view that Slovenia’s fiscal
position has deteriorated since the 2008 financial crisis and
the government has not thus far presented a credible
consolidation strategy,” David T. Beers, a London-based analyst
for S&P, said in the statement. “The upcoming elections” on
Dec. 4 “present an opportunity for the new government to
prevent further slippage and implement structural reforms.”  S&P joins Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings in
lowering Slovenia’s credit score in the past month after Prime
Minister Borut Pahor’s government was toppled in a no-confidence
vote. Political uncertainty, a weak banking industry and a
worsening economic outlook were cited by Fitch and Moody’s for
the downgrade, with both companies maintaining a negative
outlook.  Regional Downgrades  Slovenia follows  Italy , Spain, Portugal, Ireland, Cyprus
and  Greece  as euro-region countries to be downgraded this year.
Contagion from the debt crisis that started in Greece in May
2010 is prompting rating companies and investors to step up
scrutiny of credit risk.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Slovenia’s bonds
maturing in 2021 rather than similar-maturity German debt rose
to 349 basis points, or 3.49 percent, at 11:07 a.m. in
Ljubljana, the capital. That compares with a record 362 basis
points on Oct. 7, Bloomberg data show. The spread more than
doubled since voters rejected pension changes in June, when the
difference was 147 basis points.  Slovenia is “on track” to cut spending this year, even
though state aid for banks and other companies has “worsened
the picture,” outgoing Finance Minister  Franc Krizanic  said
Sept. 30. The government aims to narrow the  budget deficit  to
4.6 percent of total output this year, equivalent to 5.5 percent
under European accounting standards. Slovenia’s public debt
ballooned to 44.2 percent of gross domestic product at the end
of June, according to the statistics office.  The country’s borrowing has increased as the government
sought to cushion the economy and the banking system from
Europe’s debt crisis, S&P said. The ratings company sees “an
extremely low risk” of the  European Central Bank  restricting
access to foreign currency needed for debt service.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net 
Vivek Shankar at 
 vshankar3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  