-- 
Soccer Ruling Body May Seek to Identify Bribe Takers, Blatter Adviser Says

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-10-20T16:11:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/soccer-ruling-body-may-seek-to-identify-bribe-takers-blatter-adviser-says.html
Soccer’s governing body may ask a
Swiss court to identify senior officials who took money from its
former marketing partner ISL, which went bankrupt in 2001, an
adviser to  FIFA  said.  FIFA President Sepp Blatter is considering the move as he
seeks to reform following corruption scandals and amid questions
about awarding the $4 billion  World Cup  to Russia and Qatar,
according to Sylvia Schenk, an official with  Transparency
International , who’s been advising the organization about
changes to its governance.  “FIFA can write to the court and say there’s public
interest and we want the ISL files to be disclosed,” Schenk
said in an interview.  Asked if FIFA was discussing asking for the release of
documents that may implicate serving officials with bribery,
Schenk said, “I know so.”  Blatter, elected to a fourth term after his challenger
Mohamed  Bin Hammam  quit before being banned for life for
suspected vote-buying, has vowed to “deal with the past.” He’s
announcing reforms tomorrow.  The prosecutor’s office in the Swiss canton of Zug released
a statement last June that said “foreign persons of FIFA-
institutions have received provisions” from ISL, without
disclosing their names. FIFA agreed to pay 5.5 million Swiss
francs ($6.15 million) in compensation, of which 2.5 million
francs would go to charities on condition the names of the
individuals were not revealed.  Life Ban  After criticism from fans, sponsors and the media,
Blatter, head of FIFA since 1998, promised to change FIFA’s
governance in June. Since then, Bin Hammam has been given a life
ban after a FIFA disciplinary body judged he’d tried to bribe
soccer heads in the Caribbean and former FIFA vice president
 Jack Warner  quit the sport before an investigation into his
conduct could be completed. Several Caribbean officials have
also been sanctioned.  FIFA has also agreed to change the way World Cup hosts are
selected, extending the vote beyond executives to all 208 member
associations. Two FIFA executives were suspended amid claims
they offered to sell votes to undercover reporters purporting to
represent the U.S.’s 2022 World Cup bid.  Blatter is discussing the reform proposals with FIFA
executives today. Possible reforms that may be announced
tomorrow could include limiting membership of the executive
committee to two terms, strengthening the role of the ethics
committee and taking the general secretary out of the process of
referring rule breaches to investigators, Transparency
International’s Schenk said.  Michel Platini , the head of European soccer’s governing
body, met with other members of the executive committee from his
continent to discuss the changes.  “FIFA has to have a better image and perhaps after a lot
of years of a certain way of how to manage FIFA, perhaps it
would be nice to have the new things promised by Mr. Blatter,”
Platini said today. “I get the impression that Mr Blatter is
really motivated to change something. We will see.”  Schenk has met the FIFA president three times since July
25. He’s promised not to stand for re-election so will not be
afraid of pushing through unpopular reforms, she said.  “He has no more elections to come so he has nothing to
lose from that point of view,” Schenk said. “He wants to be
after his term a former president that’s honored, not someone
who everybody says, ‘at last he’s gone’ and he’s left FIFA in
chaos.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in Zurich via London on  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  