-- 
Societe Generale Sees ‘Aggressive’ Rate Increases in Turkey

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-10-20T14:01:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/socgen-sees-hungary-style-aggressive-rate-increases-in-turkey.html
Turkey  may be forced to raise
interest rates “aggressively” like Hungary did in 2008 because
the central bank can’t sustain its sale of dollar reserves to
prop up the lira, according to Societe Generale SA.  Governor Erdem Basci is battling to end a slump in the lira
that followed the central bank’s decision to cut the benchmark
rate by half a point on Aug. 4, with the lira  slumping 8.9
percent against the dollar since then. The bank has used up
about 10 percent of its foreign-currency reserves since July
selling dollars to stem the lira’s decline. Today, the central
bank left its benchmark rate unchanged at 5.75 percent,
according to an e-mailed statement.  “Can the central bank sustain its intervention policy for
a long time? The answer is no,”  Benoit Anne , head of emerging-
market strategy at Societe Generale SA in  London , wrote in an e-
mailed response to questions.  The lira strengthened 0.6 percent to 1.8574 per dollar at
4:35 p.m. in Istanbul, making it the best performer among more
than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, paring
its loss this year to 17 percent. It remains the second-worst
performer among emerging-market currencies after the South
African rand so far in 2011.  Swaps Eye Record  Turkey’s two-year cross-currency swaps exchanging lira debt
for dollar debt climbed for a sixth day and headed for the
biggest one-day increase on record after the central bank
announcement. Yields on the two-year debt increased 41 basis
points, or 0.41 percentage point, to the highest level in almost
four months, a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi index of the securities
showed.  The central bank dropped its wording on easing instruments
and said it was ready to take “necessary action.”  The bank is “laying the groundwork for possible need to
hike rates at some point in future,”  Nick Chamie , the global
head of emerging-market research at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC
Capital Market unit in Toronto, said in e-mailed comments.  Turkey’s central bank intervened directly in markets on
Oct. 18 for the first time since 2006, hours after selling $750
million of dollars in an auction. Reserves stood at $85.1
billion on Oct. 7, according to central bank data, equivalent to
the country’s short-term external debt as of June.  “If the central bank’s intervention policy does fail, what
is their fall-back policy option? A Hungarian-like aggressive
policy rate hike. So that is the story which we are now
positioned for,” said Anne.  Dollar Resources  Hungary raised interest rates for three consecutive months
to curb accelerating inflation to 6 percent on Jan. 24. The
Magyar Nemzeti Bank lifted  interest rates  to 11.50 percent from
8.50 percent in October 2008.  After today’s Turkish central bank announcement, “the
story remains unchanged, so we are seeing the same market
move,” Anne said.  The central bank has the resources to deal with the lira’s
depreciation without a big rate increase, Yarkin Cebeci,
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Istanbul, said in e-mailed
comments.  The cost of insuring five-year Turkish debt rose for the
third day after reaching a five-week low on Oct. 17. Credit-
default swaps, which rise as perceptions of creditworthiness
worsen and act as insurance for the buyer against losses on
bonds, climbed six basis points to 260 today, CMA data show.
Swaps on  Hungary ’s five-year debt rose five basis points to 514
today.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Turkish debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point to 324,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMB Global Index. That
compares with 466 for debt of Hungary, which is rated two steps
higher than Turkey by Moody’s at Baa3, the lowest investment
grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  