-- 
Solar-Panel Maker Solyndra Lobbied as Its Cash Was About Out

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-10-20T21:25:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/solar-panel-maker-solyndra-lobbied-as-its-cash-was-running-out.html
A  Washington  lobbying firm reported
it did $20,000 of work for Solyndra LLC as the company
approached bankruptcy, according to federal documents.  The Glover Park Group LLC registered as Solyndra’s lobbyist
in July, a little more than a month before the Fremont,
California-based maker of solar panels closed its doors, firing
1,100 workers.  Joel Johnson, a managing director at Glover Park, said it
wasn’t paid by Solyndra and isn’t seeking compensation. Public-
disclosure rules require the firm to report its expenses,
represented by the $20,000, he said in an interview. Solyndra,
which received a $535 million loan guarantee from the Energy
Department in 2009, filed for  bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 6.  “They were struggling to stay alive,” said  Craig Holman ,
who tracks lobbying for  Public Citizen,  a non-profit advocacy
group based in Washington. “This is where lobbyists come into
play.”  Catharine Cyr Ransom, a former climate and environment aide
to Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, and Gregg Rothschild, a former Democratic counsel for
the House Energy and Commerce Committee, helped to introduce
Solyndra executives to members of the House energy panel, which
had been investigating the company’s $535 million U.S. loan
guarantee since February, according to the filing with the
Senate.  Harrison Faulted  Records show Solyndra terminated the contract with Glover
Park on Aug. 19, 12 days before the company shut its doors.  Republicans and Democrats on the energy committee have
criticized Solyndra Chief Executive Officer Brian Harrison for
presenting an optimistic picture of the company’s financial
health in meetings with them in July.  Glover Park helped Harrison convey a similar message to the
public, hosting a press conference for him at its Washington
offices on July 21. “We’re growing, doubling in size year-over-
year, and on track,” Harrison told reporters.  Harrison invoked his Fifth Amendment rights under the
Constitution not to make self-incriminating statements and
refused to answer questions about the loan guarantee at a Sept.
23 House hearing. He resigned as chief this month.  Companies and interest groups are required to report their
lobbying expenses each quarter.  $480,000 Spending  Solyndra had previously reported spending $480,000 in the
first half of the year to lobby Congress, according to records
filed with the Senate.  Besides Glover Park, the company had hired five firms to
lobby on its behalf since 2009, spending at least $1.3 million
on issues relating to its loan guarantee and other policies
promoting solar power, according to the disclosure records.  Solyndra received the loan guarantee in September 2009. It
filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 6 and is the subject of an FBI
investigation into whether the company misrepresented its
finances to the Energy Department as part of its loan
application.  The company has denied any wrongdoing.  In its final month, Solyndra also sought to restructure
loan terms with the Energy Department. The department, which had
approved new terms in February that put taxpayer debt behind $75
million in private investment in the case of liquidation, denied
the second restructuring request the day before Solyndra closed
its doors on Aug. 31.  While Glover Park registered as the company’s lobbyist in
July, the firm also had done public relations work for Solyndra
previously.  A Glover Park representative sent an e-mail on Aug. 3,
2010, to a White House official in response to a negative press
report about Solyndra, according to documents released by
President Barack Obama’s administration.  “Solyndra is on solid ground and well beyond the startup
phase,” Ryan Cunningham, senior vice president at Glover Park,
said in the e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  