-- 
Somalia’s Al-Shabaab Vows to Defeat Kenya Intervention Force

-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 
2011-10-20T08:38:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/somalia-s-al-shabaab-vows-to-defeat-kenya-intervention-force-1-.html
Somalia ’s militant Islamist group
al-Shabaab vowed to defeat Kenyan forces that intervened in the
southern part of the country after Somali gunmen kidnapped
tourists and aid workers.  “We prepared special troops to fight against the Kenyan
invaders who illegally crossed Somalia’s border,” al-Shabaab’s
military spokesman, Sheikh Abdi Aziz Abu Musab, said in a
recorded statement on Radio al-Furqaan. “We will teach them
unforgettable lessons.”  Kenyan soldiers entered Somalia on Oct. 16 after officials
blamed the kidnappings on al-Shabaab, which has pledged
allegiance to al-Qaeda. Marie Dedieu, a 66-year-old disabled
French woman who was abducted from a house near the northern
Kenyan town of Lamu by Somali gunmen on Oct. 1, has probably
died, the French Foreign Ministry said yesterday.  Somalia, on  Kenya ’s northeastern border, hasn’t had a
functioning government since the 1991 overthrow of dictator
Mohamed Siad Barre. Al-Shabaab, which has waged a four-year
campaign to remove the transitional administration, controls
most of southern and central Somalia.  “We will face the Kenyan invaders and will overrun them
with God’s will, as we did with the American and Ethiopian
invaders,” Abu Musab said.  The U.S. concluded a two-year mission in Somalia,
“Operation Restore Hope,” which involved as many as 33,000
U.S. and United Nations soldiers, after the downing of two
American helicopters in Mogadishu in October 1994, an incident
made famous by Mark Bowden’s book “Black Hawk Down.”  Forces from neighboring  Ethiopia  withdrew in January 2009
after a two-year campaign that ousted the Islamic Courts Union
government and later became bogged down in a guerrilla war with
the Islamic militias.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  