-- 
South African Stocks: Anglo, Amplats, Harmony, Kumba, Mondi Move

-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-10-20T16:02:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/south-african-stocks-anglo-billiton-kumba-massmart-mondi.html
The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index
closed at its lowest in a week, falling 360.46, or 1.2 percent,
to 30,836.89 by the 5 p.m. end of trading in Johannesburg.  The following were among the most active stocks in the
South African market today.        Anglo American Plc (AAL)  , the mining company that makes
up more than 9 percent of the benchmark  stock index , closed at a
two-week low, dropping 1.8 percent to 283 rand. Copper and zinc
led a decline among base metals as a split emerged among
European leaders on a rescue plan and concerns mounted about the
recovery of the  U.S. economy , threatening the demand outlook for
commodities.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  , the world’s largest mining
group, fell 1.4 percent, to 235 rand. Separately, European
steelmakers, under “real pressure,” are reducing capacity,
Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  told reporters after the
company’s annual general meeting in  London .  Palabora Mining Co. (PAM SJ), a copper miner, slumped 3.8
percent to 113.71 rand.       Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS SJ), the world’s biggest
producer of the metal, declined to its lowest in more than five
weeks, sliding 3.6 percent to 530.05 rand, as the spot price of
platinum dropped a third day.  Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR SJ), the continent’s third-
largest gold company, closed at its lowest in three weeks,
slipping 3.1 percent to 92.64 rand. Gold fell to a two-week low
as commodities declined on concern demand for raw materials may
wane as  Europe  has yet to find a solution to its debt crisis.  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO)  , an iron ore-producing unit of
Anglo American, fell to its lowest in almost two weeks,
declining 3.7 percent to 441 rand. The company said iron-ore
prices will remain volatile in the short term as it reported a 7
percent decline in sales volumes between June and September.        Mondi Ltd. (MND)  , Europe’s largest maker of office
paper, closed at its lowest in more than two weeks, dropping 4.9
percent, to 57.55 rand. The company was cut to “underperform”
from “neutral” by analysts at Credit Suisse Group AG.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  