-- 
Soybeans Slide for a Fourth Day as Rainfall May Boost Yields in Argentina

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-10-20T11:24:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/soybeans-drop-in-chicago-for-fourth-day-as-rains-may-boost-argentine-yield.html
Soybeans fell for a fourth day in
Chicago on dry weather in  Brazil  and rain in  Argentina  that is
likely to improve planting conditions for the oilseed.  Brazil will have three to five days of drier weather to aid
sowing, forecaster DTN said yesterday. Fields in Argentina will
get light to moderate rain through Oct. 24, Accuweather.com
forecast yesterday. Prices also dropped on concern European
leaders will fail to address the region’s debt crisis.  “We’ve had some decent rains in Argentina over the last
couple of weeks,” boosting optimism yields will rise,  Michael
Creed , an agribusiness economist at National Australia Bank
Ltd., said by phone from Melbourne today.  Europe ’s debt issues
are also damping investor demand for commodities, he said.  January-delivery soybeans, the contract with the most open
interest, slipped 0.4 percent to $12.265 a bushel by 1:21 p.m.
Paris time on the  Chicago  Board of Trade, rebounding from a drop
of as much as 1.5 percent. The November-delivery contract, which
has the most volume, declined 0.4 percent to $12.20 a bushel.  Brazilian farmers usually plant soybeans in October, while
Argentine seeding starts in November, U.S. Department of
Agriculture  data  shows.  A French-German split about the role of the  European
Central Bank ’s role in the region’s rescue strategy emerged as
finance ministers prepare to meet tomorrow under pressure to
craft a solution to the region’s debt crisis.  Tackling the Crisis  “It’s all looking a bit sloppy this morning as France and
Germany appear at odds over how to tackle the European debt
crisis, rather than all singing from the same song sheet,”  Dave
Norris , an independent U.K. grain trader, wrote on his website.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs
the group of euro-area finance ministers, indicated an impromptu
meeting of European leaders last night failed to resolve
differences before a summit scheduled for this weekend.  “That bearish news on the macro front overnight has
certainly weighed on markets,” National Australia’s Creed said.
Corn and wheat both dropped as much as 1 percent.  Corn for December delivery was last down 0.4 percent at
$6.36 a bushel and December-delivery wheat was little changed at
$6.1975 a bushel. Milling wheat for November delivery traded on
NYSE Liffe in Paris slid 0.7 percent to 184.75 euros ($254.71) a
metric ton.  Ukrainian Agriculture Minister Mykola Prysyazhnyuk said
President  Viktor Yanukovych  signed a bill yesterday to cut
export taxes for corn and wheat.  Black Sea exporters are “large discounters in the
market,” and a reduction in Ukraine’s export tax will widen
their price discount to U.S. supplies, according to Creed.
“They tend to play a role in price direction,” he said.  Ukraine is set to be the world’s  third-largest  corn shipper
this season after the U.S. and Argentina, according to USDA
data. Ukraine also is the third-largest wheat exporter in the
former  Soviet Union , its  figures  show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  