-- 
Spain’s La Mancha Slashed to Junk as Moody’s Cuts 10 Regions

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-10-20T10:09:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/spain-s-la-mancha-slashed-to-junk-as-moody-s-cuts-10-regions.html
Spain ’s region of Castilla-La Mancha
was cut five levels to junk by Moody’s Investors Service, which
also downgraded nine other regions, citing their worsening
finances that threaten the central government’s ability to tame
the euro region’s third-biggest deficit.  Moody’s cut Castilla-La Mancha to Ba2 from A3 and put it on
review for another downgrade. It also lowered Catalonia, Spain’s
largest economy, Andalusia, Valencia, Murcia, Castilla-Leon,
Extremadura, Madrid, Galicia and the Basque Country, the company
said in a statement late yesterday.  The regions face “growing liquidity pressures” and
difficulties “reining in their cost base,” Moody’s said.
Spain’s weak economic outlook will also limit  tax revenue  for
the regions, said the company, which downgraded Spain’s
sovereign rating on Oct. 18.  The move is a further setback to regions at a time when
Catalonia, with an economy the size of  Portugal ’s, is selling
debt to its citizens after being locked out of  capital markets .
It may also undermine confidence in the austerity plan that the
People’s Party government of Castilla-La Mancha is implementing
after winning control of the region in May following three
decades of Socialist rule.  Inheriting Deficit  “Rating agencies are valuing the regions too negatively,”
said Angel Laborda, chief economist at Madrid-based Funcas, the
savings-bank foundation. “It may be they have high deficits and
that they haven’t done their homework but they aren’t insolvent
to the point where debt won’t be repaid. On the contrary, their
debt and the interest they are paying are very low because of
the regions’ short history.”  La Mancha is forecast to have 3.1 billion euros ($4.26
billion) of commercial liabilities at the end of 2011,
equivalent to 59 percent of its operating revenue, Moody’s said.  “Poor accountability and inadequate checks and balances
have fostered inefficiencies within the administration, which
itself has been unable to provide adequate estimates of its
fiscal performances over the past year,” the company said.  La Mancha’s president, Maria Dolores de Cospedal, who said
the previous government left a larger fiscal hole than it
acknowledged, has pledged to narrow the shortfall to 1.3 percent
of its gross domestic product in 2012 from 6.5 percent last
year, without raising taxes. PP leader  Mariano Rajoy , the
favorite in opinion polls to win the general election on Nov.
20, supported her program of spending cuts and pledges similar
measures on a national level.  Cash Reserves  The regions are behind schedule to meet their deficit
target for this year of 1.3 percent of GDP, preliminary
government data shows. That shortfall, along with the central
government’s deficit and the balance of the social-security
system, contributes to the overall public deficit that is
targeted at 6 percent of GDP this year.  “Large financing needs alongside constrained access to
long-term funding sources have forced regions to deplete their
cash reserves, extensively use short-term credit lines, and
expand their commercial debt obligations,” Moody’s said.  Catalonia will start selling as much as 4 billion euros of
retail bonds on Oct. 24 and is offering a coupon of 4.75 percent
on one-year securities and 5.25 percent on two-year notes, the
government said on Oct. 6. It is paying the banks that sell the
securities, known popularly as patriot bonds, commissions of as
much as 2.2 percent.  Moody’s cut Spain’s sovereign-debt rating two notches on
Oct. 18, saying the country was vulnerable to a further
“escalation of the euro-area crisis.” It also reduced its
growth forecasts for Spain and said it would miss its budget-
deficit target next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  