-- 
Staples Traders See Rally After Decade’s Biggest Drop: Options

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-10-21T20:48:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/staples-traders-see-rally-after-decade-s-biggest-drop-options.html
Staples Inc. (SPLS) ’s biggest stock plunge
since 2000 is luring bullish options traders, who are lifting
bets to an eight-year high that the world’s largest office-
supply retailer will rally.  There are 3.04 calls to buy the stock for each put and the
ratio reached 3.21 on Sept. 19, the highest since June 2003,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Open interest in
options to buy the shares for $15 by January 2013 has jumped by
19,310 contracts in the past two weeks for the biggest gain. The
stock rallied 1.1 percent to $14.89 today.  Investors are betting the Framingham, Massachusetts-based
retailer’s rising sales and profit can reverse this year’s 35
percent decline even as demand for office supplies falls. The
shares trade near a record low price-to-earnings ratio and have
lost less than rivals  Office Depot Inc. (ODP)  and  OfficeMax Inc. (OMX) ,
which plunged 60 percent and 71 percent in 2011.  “The stock is relatively cheap, and we’re also having
year-on-year earnings growth,” Liam Dalton, chief executive
officer of Axiom Capital Management Inc. in New York, which
oversees $1.8 billion, said in a telephone interview. “There
are other industries where earnings are much more sensitive to
the economic cycle, and this one has less sensitivity because
they have a fairly predictable business model.”  Staples’s annual revenue has increased every year since at
least 2001, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Net income
rose 19 percent in fiscal 2011 and will climb 11 percent and 6
percent in the next two years, according to analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Valuation Levels  The retailer’s shares trade for 11.3 times reported
earnings, 14 percent less than the S&P 500’s valuation. The 22
percent discount on Aug. 10 was the lowest since December 2000,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Implied volatility for Staples options expiring in three
months fell 14 percent from its 29-month high of 49.87 on Oct. 4
to 42.97 yesterday, according to Bloomberg data. During that
time, the options price gauge fell 13 percent to 85.15 for
Office Depot, while it slid 15 percent to 91.96 for OfficeMax.  Owen Davis, a spokesman for Staples, declined to comment on
the options trading.  The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, fell 10 percent to 31.32 today. It retreated 23
percent from Oct. 3 through yesterday. Implied volatility for
the SPDR S&P Retail exchange-traded fund dropped 22 percent for
three-month options in the same period.  Bullish Options  There are 144,489 existing Staples calls, compared with
47,404 puts. Bullish options make up the seven contracts with
the largest open interest. The 39,079 outstanding $15 calls that
expire in January 2013 closed at $2.50 on Oct. 19, meaning a
buyer at that price doesn’t profit at expiration unless the
shares exceed $17.50.  “Some investors are bottom-feeding in the group and they
don’t want to take a position in the stock so they’re buying the
calls instead,” Frederic Ruffy, a senior options strategist at
WhatsTrading.com, a New York-based provider of options-market
analytics, said in an interview yesterday. “The trend this year
hasn’t been bullish, so they may be taking positions in longer-
term calls expecting that trend to change in 2012.”  Sales of office supplies have stagnated as the U.S.
unemployment rate remains above 9 percent,  Matt Arnold , an
analyst for Edwards Jones & Co. in  Des Peres ,  Missouri , said in
an interview yesterday. Price competition and continued layoffs
by governments facing budget reductions also pose risks to
Staples’s growth prospects, said Arnold, who recommends buying
the shares.  ‘Its Destiny Varies’  “Its destiny varies with the health of the business
community,”  Lawrence Creatura , who helps oversee $350 billion a
Rochester, New York-based fund manager at Federated Investors
Inc., said in a telephone interview yesterday. “The macro risks
in Staples are linked to future business activity, and if for
any reason we’re weaker in the future than is expected, then
they could run into trouble.”  Staples posted a gain in back-to-school sales and has been
able to pass higher prices to customers, Chief Executive Officer
Ron Sargent said at a September conference sponsored by Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. He also said that he expects more mergers and
acquisitions in the industry.  The retailer, which has been adding electronics such as
Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle digital reader and expanding services
to boost revenue, partnered with  Martha Stewart  Living Omnimedia
Inc. last month to offer a line of home office items that would
appeal more to women. Women make up about 60 percent of in-store
customers, according to Demos Parneros, the company’s president
of U.S. retail.  Block Trades  Calls accounted for 20 of the 25 largest Staples options
block trades this month, according to data from Trade Alert LLC,
a New York-based provider of options market data and analysis.
The largest transaction was for 9,800 January 2013 $15 calls
that changed hands on Oct. 10.  “You can see steady buying in those 2013 calls that’s been
going on over time,” Ralph Edwards, director of derivatives
strategy at Investment Technology Group Inc. in  New York , said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “The pressure would be off
of Staples if there’s no double dip in the economy, so this is a
long-term bet.”  January $17.50 calls have the second-largest ownership at
11,835 contracts. Staples hasn’t closed above that price since
before May 18, when it plunged 15 percent for the biggest loss
in 11 years after cutting its profit forecast and expansion
plans for 2011 because of the slowing economic recovery.  “They’re clearly the best player and at some point
consolidation will occur in the industry and employment will
recover,”  David Strasser , a New York-based analyst for Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC who recommends buying the shares, said in
an Oct. 11 telephone interview. “Then you could have a very
strong stock.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  