-- 
Sugar Traders Most Bearish in Three Months on Glut: Commodities

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-10-21T16:39:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/sugar-traders-most-bearish-in-three-months-on-glut-commodities.html
Sugar traders and analysts are the
most bearish in almost three months on mounting speculation that
supply will outpace demand for the first time in four years,
creating a glut that may persist through 2013.  Nine of 13 people surveyed by Bloomberg expect raw sugar to
drop on the ICE Futures U.S. exchange next week, the highest
proportion since the end of July. The last time they were that
bearish, prices fell 7.6 percent the following week. Speculators
cut their bets on higher prices by 49 percent since the end of
July, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. Traders
also expect lower refined-sugar prices next week, and gains in
gold, copper, corn and soybeans, separate surveys showed.  Sugar already fell 26 percent since reaching a three-decade
high in February as the surge encouraged farmers to plant more
cane. UBS AG, Macquarie Group Ltd. and Barclays Capital are
among banks anticipating a surplus in the next 12 months.
Kingsman SA, a researcher in Lausanne,  Switzerland , expects the
biggest glut since 2002-03, when prices dropped 25 percent.  “If you are a strategic buyer and not a speculator, you’re
going to wait for the market to go down because everyone is
expecting a surplus,” said Renier Swanepoel, an analyst at UBS
in Johannesburg who expects prices to drop as much as 17 percent
by the first quarter. “The only question is how big.”  Record Production  Raw sugar fell 17 percent on the ICE Futures U.S. exchange
this year, heading for its biggest annual drop since 2006.
Prices rallied as much as 18 percent to 28.35 a pound in the
three weeks to Oct. 17 on concern flooding would ruin crops in
 Thailand , the biggest exporter after  Brazil . Futures retreated
in  New York  yesterday after Thai Sugar Trading Corp., the
nation’s biggest shipper, predicted record cane output and no
delays in exports. It fell to 26.6 cents today.  White sugar traded on NYSE Liffe in London fell 9 percent
this year, on track for the biggest annual drop since 2003. The
Standard & Poor’s Agriculture Index of eight commodities
declined 12 percent and the MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities slid 8.8 percent. Treasuries returned 7.8 percent, a
Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Global output will exceed demand by 6 million metric tons
in the marketing year that began this month, equal to about
seven months of U.S. demand, UBS wrote in a report yesterday.
Macquarie anticipates a 5.32 million-ton glut and Kingsman 8.4
million tons.  Barclays Capital  estimated 4.5 million tons in
August. The London-based International Sugar Organization, whose
members include 86 countries, says the surplus may reach 4.2
million tons.  Fewer Cargoes  World production will expand 4.9 percent this marketing
year, more than twice the anticipated 1.5 percent gain in
consumption, Macquarie’s analysts wrote in a report Sept. 22.
The bank also expects a 4.54 million-ton surplus in 2012-13.  Russia , once the world’s biggest importer, will buy 56
percent less sugar this year as domestic output rebounds, C.
Czarnikow Sugar Futures Ltd., a London-based trader of the
commodity, wrote in a report yesterday.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. expects a 9.8 percent drop in raw-
sugar prices in the next six months and Barclays anticipates
three consecutive quarterly declines as the surplus expands.  The predicted glut may not lower costs everywhere. The
European Union is contending with a second consecutive annual
shortage because of quotas on production combined with trade
barriers that limit imports. The supply deficit may reach 1.1
million tons in the next 12 months, according to the Committee
of European Sugar Users, whose members include  Nestle SA (NESN) ,
Unilever and Kraft Foods Inc.  Import Duties   As world prices fell this year, European costs rose to a
two-year high. The EU, once the second-biggest exporter, spent
about 5.2 billion euros ($7.1 billion) since 2006 to curb
output after the  World Trade Organization  ruled it was dumping
subsidized sugar. The 27-nation bloc maintained import duties to
protect farmers.  Supply is also tight in the U.S. and stockpiles will
contract this year to the lowest since records began in 1960
after rain and freezes damaged the beet crop, according to the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture . Domestic prices were last at
38.5 cents a pound, a 45 percent premium to international
contracts. Sugar is the only major agricultural commodity
produced in the U.S. that is subject to import quotas.  Commodities are heading for the weakest annual performance
since 2008, when prices slid 43 percent, as investors speculate
that slower economic growth will erode demand for raw materials.
About $9.9 trillion has been wiped off the value of global
equities since May. European leaders are meeting this weekend in
Brussels to debate a plan to boost the region’s bailout fund as
they seek to contain the debt crisis, with a second summit set
for Oct. 26. The outcome of those talks may dictate where prices
head next week.  Summit Outcome  Copper, viewed by some analysts as an economic bellwether
because it’s used in everything from cars to homes to electrical
appliances, is “hardly predictable” right now because so much
depends on the outcome of the summit, said  Daniel Briesemann , an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .  Six of 11 traders and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect
the metal to advance next week. Copper for delivery in three
months, the  London  Metal Exchange’s benchmark contract, dropped
26 percent to $7,126 a ton this year. It fell to a 14-month
low of $6,635 on Oct. 3.  Should Europe’s debt crisis worsen, gold may benefit as
investors seek to protect their wealth. Fourteen of 24 traders
and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect bullion to appreciate
next week. They’ve been bullish since late September, the
longest period since mid-July. Futures gained 15 percent to
$1,636.90 an ounce in New York this year, heading for an 11th
consecutive annual advance.  ‘Slower Pace’  Thirteen of 26 people surveyed anticipate gains in corn and
15 of 27 expect the same for soybeans. Corn rose 4 percent to
$6.5425 a bushel in  Chicago  this year while soybeans fell 12
percent to $12.3025 a bushel.  “Some of the uncertainty affecting markets right now will
be with us for remainder of year,” said  Michael Widmer , head of
metals research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in London. “I
believe that commodities are supported. The global economy
continues to expand albeit at a slower pace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  