-- 
Swiss Investor Sentiment Shows Negative Reading for Sixth Month

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-10-20T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/swiss-investor-sentiment-shows-negative-reading-for-sixth-month.html
Swiss investor confidence showed a
negative reading for a sixth month in October, adding to signs
of a deepening economic slowdown.  An index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance,
increased to minus 54.4 from minus 75.7 in September, the  ZEW
Center for European Economic Research  in  Mannheim ,  Germany , and
Zurich-based  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  said in an e-mailed
statement today. A gauge of analysts’ assessment of the economic
situation fell to 11.4 from 18.9 in September.  Switzerland ’s export-led recovery is cooling as the franc’s
ascent hurts earnings of some of the country’s largest companies
such as  Nestle SA (NESN)  just as euro-region growth weakens. Swiss
exports declined in the third quarter, the government said
today, and Winterthur, Switzerland-based pump maker  Sulzer AG (SUN) 
this month predicted a slowdown in full-year order growth,
citing “uncertainties in the financial markets.”  “Slowing global demand and the European debt crisis are a
lethal cocktail for economic growth in our country,” said Ralf Wiedenmann, chief economist at Vontobel Asset Management Ltd. in
Zurich. “I expect the Swiss economy to stagnate in the year’s
second half, followed by a slight recovery.”  About half of analysts forecast the Swiss central bank to
raise its franc ceiling of 1.20 versus the euro imposed last
month, Credit Suisse said. More than 60 percent of participants
forecast the cap to have a stabilizing effect, while 30 percent
said the ceiling is too low. Around 63 percent of analysts also
said the Swiss economy will be able to avert a recession.  The survey was conducted Oct. 6-17, with 35 analysts
participating. Balances refer to the difference between positive
and negative assessments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  