-- 
Swiss Stocks Drop Amid Debt-Plan Split; Credit Suisse Falls

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-10-20T16:08:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/swiss-stocks-little-changed-before-brussels-meeting-on-crisis.html
Swiss stocks dropped for the third
day in four, led by financial firms, after Germany and France
split over how to end the region’s debt crisis before a summit
of European leaders on Oct. 23.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  lost more
than 2 percent, as the divide over the scope of the region’s
bailout fund clouded the summit in Brussels.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  sank
9.7 percent after the drugmaker forecast a sales decline next
year.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, dropped 0.7 percent to 5,657.66 at
the close in Zurich. The gauge climbed in the last three weeks
as policy makers worked on a plan aimed at strengthening
economies and banks and avert an expansion of the sovereign debt
crisis. Even so, the measure has still tumbled 12 percent this
year. The broader Swiss Performance Index slipped 0.9 percent
today.  The European Financial Stability Facility may be able to
offer loans to countries “before they face difficulties raising
funds” in bond markets, draft guidelines show. The bailout fund
may be authorized to provide credit lines amounting to as much
as 10 percent of a country’s economy. Some German lawmakers
criticized the plan, saying that would put an intolerable burden
on taxpayers.  At the summit, “we expect important progress to be made,
but the overall approach is likely to remain evolutionary rather
than radical,” Darren Williams, a senior European economist at
AllianceBernstein LP in  London , wrote in a report today. “This
may disappoint the exaggerated expectations now embedded in
markets.”  ‘Uncertainty Reigns’  A disagreement over the  European Central Bank ’s role
threatens to stymie progress on a comprehensive strategy to end
the crisis. Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who
chairs the group of euro-area finance ministers, indicated an
impromptu meeting of European Union leaders in Frankfurt last
night failed to resolve differences.  “Uncertainty reigns supreme as we contemplate the likely
outcome of this weekend’s EU leaders summit with the rumor mill
quite active,”  Adrian Foster , a markets analyst at Rabobank
Groep in Hong Kong, wrote in a report today.  The lack of clarity on the direction of talks led to a
selloff in the bonds of so-called peripheral economies in
 Europe . The yield on Italian 10-year  government bonds  rose to
more than 6 percent for the first time since Aug. 5.  Credit Suisse, the nation’s second-largest lender, fell 3.5
percent to 22.98 Swiss francs.  Julius Baer , the Zurich-based
private bank, declined 2.5 percent to 33.91 francs. Swiss Re AG,
the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, lost 2.2 percent to 45.32
francs.  Investor Confidence  Meanwhile, Swiss investor confidence showed a negative
reading for a sixth month in October, adding to signs of a
deepening economic slowdown. An index of investor and analyst
expectations, which aims to predict economic developments six
months in advance, increased to minus 54.4 from minus 75.7 in
September, the ZEW Center for European Economic Research in
Mannheim, Germany, and Zurich-based Credit Suisse said today. A
gauge of analysts’ assessment of the economic situation fell to
11.4 from 18.9 in September.  Actelion, Europe’s largest biotechnology company, plummeted
9.7 percent to 30.70 francs, its biggest retreat since March
2010. The volume of trading in its shares surged to four times
the average in the last three months. The company said it
expects drug sales to fall next year as it faces pricing
pressure and increased competition in the U.S.  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  rose 0.5 percent to 143 francs. The
drugmaker said a phase II study showed its ocrelizumab treatment
maintained significant reduction in disease activity for
multiple sclerosis patients for almost two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  