-- 
Syria May Switch to Ruble From Euro, Central Bank Governor Says

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-10-20T12:28:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/syria-may-switch-to-ruble-from-euro-central-bank-governor-says.html
Syria  may start using the Russian
ruble for banking transactions if the European Union bans it
from operations in euros, central bank Governor Adib Mayaleh
said today.  As a first step, the Syrian central bank has begun posting
the  exchange rate  for the ruble as well as the Chinese yuan on
its daily bulletin, Mayaleh said in an interview with the
Arabic-language  Russia  Today channel.  “Don’t forget that we can carry out operations in
rubles,” Mayaleh said, according to a e-mailed transcript of
the interview. “In the nearest future we will agree on
parameters for switching to close cooperation with Russian banks
and using the ruble for international settlements.”  The EU last week expanded sanctions against Syria in a bid
to end a violent crackdown on demonstrators, freezing assets of
organizations affiliated with the government. At least 3,000
people have been killed in the seven-month uprising against
President Bashar al-Assad, according to the  United Nations .  Russia and  China , allies of Syria, vetoed a UN resolution
backed by the U.S. and European nations on Oct. 4 that
threatened sanctions against the Syrian regime unless it halted
the crackdown in 30 days.  Syrian Arab Airlines, the country’s biggest carrier,
yesterday agreed to buy three new planes from Russia’s Tupolev
as Western sanctions block the state-owned company’s access to
maintenance and renewal services for its fleet.  Syrianair, as the company is known, signed a letter of
intent to take delivery of the Tu-204SMs from Tupolev, part of
state-owned United Aircraft Corp., starting in 2013. The airline
will later set up a maintenance center for the jets at its
headquarters in Damascus, it said in a statement on its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  