-- 
U.K. Retail Sales Unexpectedly Increase Most in Five Months

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-20T10:35:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/u-k-retail-sales-unexpectedly-increase.html
U.K. retail sales unexpectedly rose
in September by the most in five months, led by spending on
electrical goods such as laptop computers.  Sales including fuel climbed 0.6 percent from August, when
they fell a revised 0.4 percent, the  Office for National
Statistics  said today in  London . That’s the biggest gain since
April and compares with the median forecast of 23 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey for no change. In the third quarter,
sales fell 0.2 percent compared with the previous three months.  The  Bank of England , which expanded stimulus this month to
aid the recovery, said yesterday that household spending has
been “weak for some time” as tensions in global markets affect
consumer confidence. Pressure on households may continue after
gas and electricity costs helped to push inflation to 5.2
percent in September, the highest in three years.  “We don’t think the recent strong growth in monthly sales
is likely to be sustained,” Blerina Uruci, an economist at
 Barclays Capital  in London, said in a note to clients today.
“The environment for retailers is likely to remain challenging
as  consumer spending  remains depressed driven by low confidence
and slow earnings growth.”  Sales at household-goods stores jumped 3.2 percent in
September from the previous month, partly led by back-to-school
spending on items such as computers, and demand for new video
games. Food sales were unchanged and clothes sales fell 0.7
percent as warm weather curbed sales of winter ranges.  From a year earlier, overall sales were up 0.6 percent in
September. Excluding fuel, retail sales rose 0.7 percent on the
month and 0.4 percent on the year.  Bank of  England   The pound erased declines against the dollar and was
trading at $1.5793 as of 11:07 a.m. in London, up 0.1 percent on
the day. Bonds fell, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year
U.K. government bond rising 3 basis points to 2.5 percent.  U.K.  consumer confidence  rose for the first time in four
months in September as Britons became more optimistic about the
economic outlook and spending, GfK NOP Ltd. said on Sept. 30.  Still, minutes of the Bank of England’s October’s policy
meeting released yesterday showed officials were unanimous in
voting to expand the size of their asset-purchase program to 275
billion pounds ($434 billion) from 200 billion pounds on Oct. 6.
The central bank said indicators suggested that growth may be
“close to zero in the fourth quarter.”  “The squeeze on households’ real income and the fiscal
consolidation were likely to continue to weigh on domestic
spending,” it said.  Unemployment  The number of unemployed Britons rose to 2.57 million in
the three months through August, the most since 1994. Inflation
accelerated to 5.2 percent in September, while data last week
showed that annual growth in pay excluding bonuses slowed to 1.8
percent in the three months through August.  Debenhams Plc (DEB)  Chief Executive Officer Michael Sharp said in
a statement today that it is “clearly right to remain cautious
about the strength of consumer confidence over the next 12
months given the uncertain economic outlook.” The U.K.’s
second-largest department-store reported that annual profit
before tax rose 4.4 percent to 157.7 million pounds.  The retail sales deflator, a measure of changes in shop
prices, fell to 4.8 percent in September from 5.2 percent in
August, the statistics office said. Excluding auto fuel, the
deflator was 3.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  