-- 
U.K. Incentives Boost Biomass, Marine Power, Threaten Wind Farms

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-10-20T23:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/u-k-incentives-boost-biomass-marine-power-threaten-wind-farms.html
Proposed renewable energy incentives
in the U.K. are boosting companies that generate electricity
from biomass fuel, waves and tides while prompting developers to
rethink some wind projects.  The Department for Energy and Climate Change yesterday
proposed doubling the tradable ROCs, or Renewables Obligation
Certificates, given to enhanced biomass co-firing plants and
more than doubling rewards for wave and tidal-power projects.
The government said it will cut support for wind farms as costs
fall.  The proposals, which will take effect in April 2013, or
April 2014 for offshore wind, provide the “best bang for the
bill-payer’s buck,” Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne  told reporters
in London yesterday. They’re aimed at ensuring the U.K. meets
its European Union target of getting 15 percent of all energy
for heat, power and transportation from renewable energy in
2020.  “The net result is 7 percent more renewable energy than
previously forecast, with 2 pounds ($3.15) off the energy bill
for each household,” Huhne said. “Renewables are at the heart
of the U.K.’s long-term energy strategy. They will help keep the
lights on and our emissions down.”  The proposals boosted  Drax Group Plc (DRX)  10 percent to 529
pence in London, its biggest gain since November 2008. The
company operates Western Europe’s largest coal-fired power
station and already uses biomass fuel.  More Biomass  The increased incentives will let Drax increase its use of
co-firing biomass, Chief Executive Officer Dorothy Thompson said
in a Regulatory News Service statement.  That’s one of the goal’s of the U.K.’s energy strategy.
“We’ve particularly tried to encourage where there’s going to
be a conversion from coal to biomass,” Energy Minister  Charles
Hendry  told reporters.  The government proposed awarding 1 ROC for every megawatt-
hour produced by enhanced biomass co-firing plants, double the
current rate. Incentives for other forms of biomass power were
mostly unchanged.  Thompson said that she was “disappointed” that incentives
for dedicated biomass plants weren’t affected, which may make it
“highly challenging” for Drax to carry out plans with  Siemens
AG (SIE)  to develop three projects.  Marine Energy  Each megawatt-hour of electricity generated from wave and
tidal stream power will garner five ROCs, up from two now.  “This has opened the door for us now to go and take our
first two projects to market,” Marine Current Turbines Ltd.
Chief Executive Officer Andrew Tyler said in a phone interview.
Siemens owns about 10 percent of the tidal-current turbine
maker.  The government said in July that Britain may install as
many as 300 megawatts of wave and tidal-power devices by 2020,
up from 4 megawatts of prototypes now. “It’s an industry where
the U.K. could be a world-beater, precisely because we have such
a good natural resource,” Huhne said.  The government plans to generate 30 percent of its
electricity from renewable sources by 2020, including 31
gigawatts of wind power, up from 5.6 gigawatts now. Of that, 18
gigawatts would be offshore wind, according to the July plan.  Impact on Wind  Yesterday’s proposals reduced support mechanisms for
onshore wind farms to 0.9 ROCs a megawatt-hour from one. The
biggest impact of the cut will be on small-scale community
projects, according to the RenewableUK industry lobby group.
‘Any reduction in support mechanism means that projects that are
at the margin will not be built. The question is how many and
how much,’’ said Maria McCaffery, RenewableUK’s chief executive
officer.  The cuts to incentives may threaten a community-owned plant
in  Scotland  planned by  Energy4All Ltd ., Tammy Calvert, office
manager at the Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria-based developer said
in an e-mail.  “The reduction in ROCs could cancel the project,” she
said. The incentives are expected to generate revenue for nearby
residents, who will own stakes in the project, and cutting them
means there would be little or no money left for the community,
she said.  “The decrease in tariffs for onshore wind follow the same
trend in other European markets, and are in line with the
decrease in turbine prices we have seen in the last couple of
years”, Eduardo Tabbush, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance, said by e-mail.  Incentives for offshore wind will remain unchanged for now
at two ROCs a megawatt-hour, and will fall to 1.9 for the
2015-2016 tax year, and to 1.8 the following year. That’s not as
steep a cut as an earlier plan, under which they would drop to
1.5 ROCs a megawatt-hour in April 2014.  Re-examining Some Projects  “The proposal to reduce the support mechanism for offshore
wind and other technologies means we need to re-examine the
economics of the projects we have in our planning pipeline,”
Mark Hanafin, managing director at Centrica Energy Plc, said in
an e-mailed statement. That includes two offshore plants the
U.K.’s largest retail gas and electricity supplier is planning
that may generate as much as 1 gigawatt of capacity.  Chris Hill, general manager of Smart Wind Ltd., a group led
by Mainstream Renewable Power Ltd. and Siemens Project Ventures
that’s planning the 4-gigawatt Hornsea wind farm offshore the
U.K., said any reduction in support was “clearly challenging.”
Mainstream is committed to reducing costs to make the projects
work, and “it’s going to squeeze at every level,” he told
reporters in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 