-- 
U.K. Consumer Confidence Fell in September for Fourth Month

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-10-21T09:42:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/u-k-consumer-confidence-falls-for-fourth-month-on-unemployment-inflation.html
U.K. consumer confidence fell for a
fourth month in September as unemployment increases and
accelerating inflation squeezes Britons,  Nationwide Building
Society  said.  An index of sentiment slipped 3 points from the previous
month to 45, the lowest since April, the Swindon, England-based
customer-owned lender said in an e-mailed report today. A gauge
of consumers’ expectations slipped to 62 from 65.  The  Bank of England , which restarted asset purchases this
month to aid the recovery, said this week that economic growth
may stall in the current quarter. The economy grew just 0.1
percent in the second quarter, while unemployment rose to the
highest in 15 years in the three months through August.  “These relatively downbeat findings are understandable
given the challenging economic backdrop,”  Robert Gardner , chief
economist at Nationwide, said in the report. The central bank’s
new stimulus “could translate into increased  consumer
confidence  if people believe these efforts will be successful in
lifting the economy out of its current malaise.”  A gauge of Britons’ assessment of their present situation
fell 2 points to 21, Nationwide said. An index of shoppers’
views on whether it’s a good time to make a major purchase, such
as a house or car, fell 2 points to 77.  The pound rose 0.1 percent against the dollar and traded at
$1.5805 at 10:40 a.m. in  London .  Government bonds  declined,
pushing the yield on the 10-year gilt up 5 basis points to 2.51
percent.  Unemployment Rises  Britain’s unemployment rate rose to 8.1 percent in the
three months through August as the government affirmed its
commitment to the biggest budget squeeze since World War II.
Data this week showed inflation accelerated to 5.2 percent last
month, matching the highest reading on record.  Minutes of the central bank’s Oct. 6 policy decision
published this week showed all nine members of the Monetary
Policy committee voted to raise asset purchases to 275 billion
pounds ($433 billion). They also left the benchmark  interest
rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent.  Bank of  England  Governor  Mervyn King  said this week “a
significant degree of policy stimulus is appropriate” given
Britain’s exposure to turmoil in  Europe . Leaders from the
region, the destination for more than half of U.K. exports, will
meet Oct. 23 in Brussels to discuss the debt crisis.  In the euro area, consumer confidence fell to minus 19.9 in
October, the lowest in more than two years, from minus 19.1 in
September, the European Commission said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  