-- 
U.K. Cuts Support for Onshore, Offshore Wind; Boosts Wave, Tidal

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-10-20T14:35:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/u-k-cuts-support-for-onshore-offshore-wind-boosts-wave-tidal.html
The U.K. government plans to cut
subsidies for land-based and offshore wind farms, while boosting
aid for wave and tidal plants, under a program that compels
electricity suppliers to get power from alternative energy.  Each megawatt-hour of electricity generated from onshore
wind will be rewarded with 0.9 tradable certificates, down from
1, the Department for Energy and Climate Change said today on
its  website . Offshore wind was cut to 1.9 from 2, as wave and
tidal stream were raised to 5 from 2.  The new levels of Renewables Obligation Certificates, or
ROCs, will apply for projects built from April 2013, or April
2015 for offshore wind, and are aimed at ensuring the U.K. meets
its European Union target of getting 15 percent of all energy
for heat, power and transportation from renewable energy in
2020. The revised incentives will cut the cost of the program by
as much as 1.3 billion pounds ($2 billion), the government said.  “We’re getting more renewables for less amount of money,”
Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change  Chris Huhne 
told reporters in London. “It’s more bang for the bill-payer’s
buck.”  Drax Surges  Drax Group Plc (DRX) , owner of Western Europe’s largest coal-
fired power plant, had its biggest ever gain in London trading
on a plan to double support for enhanced biomass co-firing.  To achieve the EU target, the government plans to get 30
percent of electricity from alternative sources by 2020,
including 31 gigawatts of wind power, up from 5.6 gigawatts now.
That would entail a ramp-up in offshore wind farms to 18
gigawatts in 2020 from 1.3 gigawatts now, the most in the world,
according to a plan announced in July.  “Where market costs have come down or will come down,
we’re reducing the subsidy,” Huhne said. “Where new
technologies desperately need help to reach the market, such as
wave and tidal, we’re increasing support,”  The RenewableUK industry lobby group had asked the
government to maintain the rewards for onshore and offshore
wind, warning that some projects wouldn’t be able to go ahead
without that level of support.  “We are disappointed in the reduction in support for
onshore wind especially as it is the cheapest form of renewable
energy,” Adam Bell, a spokesman for the group, said in a
telephone interview. “We are predicting up to 2017 that 1.6
gigawatts of onshore wind will not be deployed.”  Current Support  The new ROC banding for offshore wind is a cut from current
support levels, though higher than the 1.5 certificates due
originally from April 2014. For the tax year 2014-15, offshore
wind generators will now get 2 ROCs per megawatt-hour; the
following year they’ll receive 1.9, and the year after, 1.8.  The revised support levels are likely to drive  Centrica
Plc (CNA) , the U.K.’s largest retail gas and electricity supplier, to
speed up its final  investment decision  for the 620-megawatt Race
Bank and 540-megawatt Docking Shoal offshore wind projects,
Evolution Securities analyst Lakis Athanasiou said by e-mail.
The new banding boosts the value of the farms by as much as 800
million pounds, he said.  Solar power will still receive 2 ROCs per megawatt-hour
until April 2015, when it will be cut to 1.9 for a year, and
then 1.8. ROCS were scrapped for energy from landfill gas, with
the department consulting on the issue.  Bands for different forms of biomass burning were largely
unchanged, with two new categories being considered, including
one that would double support to 1 ROC from 0.5 for enhanced
biomass co-firing.  Higher Subsidies  Drax will benefit from higher subsidies for enhancing co-
firing, Athanasiou said. An enhanced co-firing facility burns 20
percent to 90 percent biomass, compared with less than 20
percent for standard co-firing.  Drax surged as much as 16 percent, the steepest intraday
gain on record, and was at 535.5 pence as of 3:30 p.m.  In a statement, Drax said plans to maintain support for
dedicated biomass at 1.5 certificates to 2016, before cutting
them to 1.4 in that year, would make the investment case for its
three planned developments “highly challenging.”  RenewableUK had also sought the 5 ROCs for wave and tidal
stream projects that the government awarded. The government set
a cap on the rewards for tidal stream and wave power at 30
megawatts per project. Anything above that will get 2 ROCs.  Under an energy plan announced in July, the government said
Britain could install as many as 300 megawatts of wave and tidal
power devices, up from 4 megawatts of prototypes now, with
biomass capacity more than doubling to 6 gigawatts.  The program requires EON AG,  RWE AG (RWE)  and other power
suppliers to hold an increasing amount of the certificates,
known as ROCs, or pay a buy-out price that for 2011-2012 is set
by the government at 38.69 pounds per megawatt-hour. The
proceeds of the buyout fund are then redistributed back to
suppliers in proportion to the amount of ROCs they held.  The Solar Trade Association, another industry group, had
lobbied for solar projects to be awarded 3 to 4 ROCs per
megawatt-hour, to help fill the gap in support created by cuts
in August to the government’s plan for microgeneration. So-
called feed-in tariffs -- or guaranteed prices paid for
electricity -- were cut by as much as 71 percent for all solar
programs over 50 kilowatts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 