-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Oct. 18 (Text)

-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 
2011-10-20T12:30:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-oct-18-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  Weekly Summary:  Early in the period, low pressure tracked from
the
northeastern Gulf up the Atlantic Seaboard, producing showers
and
thunderstorms, some severe (tornadoes in Virginia), and moderate
to
heavy rains (more than 2 inches) from southern  Georgia  northward
into
New England. Meanwhile a slow-moving cold front in the Nation’s
midsection brought some rain to the Midwest and parts of the
central and
southern Plains. A Pacific system dropped light to moderate
precipitation on the Northwest. As the week progressed, an
upper-air low
north of the Great Lakes generated windy and wet weather in the
region,
while weak Pacific systems tracked eastward across the northern
Rockies
with light precipitation. By Monday, a northward-moving
disturbance in
the east-central  Gulf of Mexico  west of Cuba was dumping heavy
rain on
southern Florida. Farther west, a stationary front was draped
from the
eastern Great Basin to the mid-Atlantic. As the period ended,
additional
rains were falling on parts of the Midwest, Southeast, and
Northeast,
while dry weather encompassed the U.S. west of the  Mississippi
River .
Weekly temperatures generally averaged above-normal except in
parts of
the Northwest, central Plains, and Southeast. Moderate to heavy
precipitation fell on south-central and southeastern Alaska
while the
interior was mostly dry,  Hawaii  saw light showers on the
windward sides,
and Puerto Rico recorded light to moderate showers throughout
the island.  Northeast and Mid-Atlantic:  Widespread showers and
thunderstorms
soaked much of the mid-Atlantic and New England with 2 or more
inches of
rain last week, effectively eliminating the three small areas of
D0(S)
in western  New York  and southeastern West Virginia. None of the
drought
products or indices depicted any areas of dryness, and nearly
all of the
short and medium-term AHPS precipitation anomalies were either
surpluses
or close to normal. The few remaining minor deficit areas were
too small
to be depicted on the map. Farther south, heavy rains in south-
central
 Virginia  improved conditions by a category, effectively removing
D0 and
D1 out of the state.  Southeast:  Heavy tropical showers and thunderstorms from a
disturbance in the east-central Gulf of Mexico and a stationary
front
focused heavy rains on southern Florida, removing the lingering
D0(L)
there. Key West received a 3-day total (October 15-17) of 10.35
inches,
including an 18-hour amount of 7.24 inches. D0(L) was kept
around Lake
Okeechobee as it remained below the Water Shortage Management
level,
although it has steadily risen (a foot this past week) due to
the heavy
rains in the Kissimmee River basin ten days ago. Farther north,
light to
moderate rains (0.5 to 2 inches) fell on much of northern
Georgia, the
western Carolinas, southern Appalachians, and eastern Tennessee,
with
some embedded heavier bands of thunderstorms (2 to 5 inches) in
southeastern and east-central Georgia, and from central  North
Carolina 
into Virginia.  Accordingly, a 1-category trimming of the D0 and
D1
areas along the western and northern drought boundary was made
where the
rains exceeded 1.5 inches, in the larger bands of heavy
thunderstorms,
and D0(S) was erased in southeastern Tennessee. Even with the
rain, USGS
7-day averaged stream flows (as of Oct. 18) still remained in
the lower
tenth percentile across many areas of the northern  Florida 
Panhandle,
Georgia,  South Carolina , and central North Carolina.  In contrast, much of Alabama and the  Florida Panhandle  missed
this
Week’s rain, and also missed out on Tropical Storm Lee’s soaking
rains.
As a result, short and medium-term deficits have accumulated (4
to 7
inches at 90-days, and 7 to 11 inches in parts of the Florida
Panhandle). As a result, a general westward creep of D0-D3 was
made into
southeastern Alabama. Farther north, a serious short-term dry
spell
(past 30 days) has enveloped northwestern Alabama (under an inch
of
rain, or less than 25 percent of normal), and D0(S) was
introduced.
Similarly in  Louisiana  and southern  Arkansas , little or no
precipitation
and above-normal temperatures continued the slow eastward crawl
of
drought in the states. As deficits continued to accumulate, a
general
1-category degradation of the D0-D4 areas were made in Louisiana
and
southern Arkansas at about the size of a county or parish. In
contrast,
1.5 to 2.5 inches of rain fell on northern Arkansas, providing
some
relief to former D0 and D1 areas.  Northern Plains and Midwest:  A widespread area of 1 to 2 inches
of
rain fell on much of the Midwest, stretching from southern
Missouri
northward into the upper  Great Lakes  region. The heaviest rains
fell on
the southern and eastern sections of the drought areas, while
the
western sections saw much lower amounts (less than 0.5 inches).
Since
the drought areas were mostly short-term deficiencies (past 90-
days or
less), these rains were beneficial in easing the accumulated
deficits.
Accordingly, where more than 1.5 inches fell, a 1-category
improvement
was made, and included most of northeastern Missouri,  Illinois ,
eastern
Iowa, southern and northern Wisconsin, northern Indiana, the
Upper
Peninsula (UP) and northern lower  Michigan , and northeastern
Minnesota.
In central Illinois, D2 remained in Macon County because of
water
restrictions at Decatur. In southern Missouri, a band of heavy
rain (2
to 4 inches) improved conditions by a category, but in
southwestern
Missouri (1 to 2 inches), the rains were not enough to
compensate for
impacts made by this summer’s extreme heat and dryness, and D2
remained.
The Impact Types were modified in the UP of Michigan (L) and
northern
Minnesota (SL) based upon the blends and various AHPS and SPI
periods.
Farther west, the D0 area in southwestern North Dakota was
expanded to
account for short topsoil moisture due to subnormal
precipitation the
past 60-days, above-normal temperatures, and windy conditions.
Fortunately, these conditions are beneficial for farmers to
harvest
their crops.  Central and Southern Plains: As we hit the third week of
October,
precipitation normally begins to decrease in the High Plains
(e.g.
eastern  New Mexico , western parts of  Texas ,  Oklahoma , and
 Kansas ), and
continues into the winter months. As a result, it is uncommon
that
widespread, precipitation-drenching storms would occur and
alleviate any
drought conditions. With that said, however, any precipitation
deficits
that would accumulate during dry periods would be small, and
temperatures and evaporation would typically be much lower than
the
summer. This week saw mostly dry weather in the southern and
central
High Plains and near to above-normal temperatures. Farther east,
showers
and thunderstorms developed and dropped some light to moderate
amounts
(1 to 2 inches) on north-central Kansas, extreme eastern
Oklahoma, and
northeastern Texas. Based upon the Texas SPI blends, October
rainfall
was enough to make a 1-category improvement in portions of the
northeastern Texas counties of Tarrant, Parker, Denton, and
Wise. The
rains that fell farther to the southeast were not enough to
overcome
this summer’s record heat and long-term drought, and status-quo
prevailed. In northwestern Kansas, a re-evaluation of various
high-resolution precipitation products depicted a surplus at
several
time scales (30-, 90-, 180-days), resulting in improvement and
removal
of drought and dryness there.  Farther north, a 1-category deterioration was made in east-
central and
southeastern Kansas and northeastern Oklahoma where little or no
rain
fell this week and where mid-September and early October rains
had
missed. Similar to Texas, the record heat in Oklahoma and
southern
Kansas also exacerbated the effects and impacts of the drought.
In
Oklahoma, changes to the major reservoirs over the past month
were:
Grand Lake 0 percent change, 10 percent since March 18; Eufaula
2
percent decline, 3 percent since March 18; Texoma 5 percent
decline, 30
percent since March 18. Since Grand was in flood control back in
March,
it currently sits at 100 percent of capacity, but Texoma and
Eufaula
were not and are now at 66 and 74 percent, respectively.  Southern Rockies and Southwest: A lull in precipitation usually
occurs
in the Southwest during the fall months between the end of the
southwestern summer monsoon and the start of the winter rainy
season.
Not surprisingly, little or no precipitation fell, and
temperatures
averaged above normal throughout the area. But since most of
this area
saw a wet week during early October, no changes were made to the
depiction. An exception was made in southwestern Colorado and
northwestern New Mexico where new and updated information for
September
and early October depicted much improved conditions (surpluses
at 30-,
60-, and 90-days and longer, SPIs positive). Accordingly, D0 was
removed
from southwestern Colorado (La Plata County), and a 1-category
improvement was made in northwestern New Mexico where nearly all
Navajo
Nation stations reported a wet September.  Hawaii: Light to moderate (0.25 to 1 inches, a few 1 to 3 inch
totals)
daily showers were mostly limited to the windward sides of
Kauai, Oahu,
Maui, and the Big Island, occurring mainly during the weekend.
Little or
no rain fell on the leeward locations. Dryness during September
has
basically continued into October, with additional impacts
developing. In
eastern Oahu, D1(L) was added due to mandatory restrictions (10
percent
cutback) on irrigation water use at Waimanalo Reservoir as of
October
17. Water levels have fallen from 60 feet early in the year to
28 feet
this week. In western Molokai where D2(L) was introduced, users
of
irrigated water at Kualapuu Reservoir are on a mandatory 30
percent
cutback and the water levels have slowly but steadily declined
over the
past several months. On the Big Island, growing short-term
deficits
called for a D1(S) expansion eastward into the central third of
the island.  Looking Ahead:  During the next 5 days (October 20-24),
relatively
tranquil weather will envelop most of the lower 48 States once
the
current storm systems in the Midwest and Northeast move out by
early
Friday. Expect the largest totals (1 to 3 inches) in the
northeastern
quarter of the U.S., especially Michigan and coastal  New
England . 5-day
temperatures should be above-normal in the western half of the
Nation
and in northern New England, while subnormal readings cover the
Midwest,
mid-Atlantic, and Southeast.  The CPC 6-10 day outlook (October 25-29) calls for an amplified
ridge
over the West Coast with a trough over the East. This translates
to
favorable odds of above-normal precipitation in the Northeast,
southern
Florida, and the central Rockies, with subnormal precipitation
in the
West, the Great Plains, and across the southern tier of States.
Above-normal temperatures are forecast for the Far West, with
subnormal
readings predicted for much of the Nation east of the Rockies,
especially in the South.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  