-- 
U.S. Company Credit Risk Falls as France, Germany Set Deadline

-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-10-20T20:28:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/u-s-corporate-credit-risk-falls-after-france-germany-statement.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk fell after  France  and  Germany  issued a statement
saying they asked euro-region officials to agree on a plan to
tame the region’s debt crisis by Oct. 26.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 0.6 basis point to 133.9
at 4:19 p.m. New York time, after climbing as high as 136.4
earlier today, according to index administrator Markit Group
Ltd.  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, has declined from 150.1
basis points on Oct. 3, the highest level in more than two
years. Investors have been quick to react to developments as
policy makers struggle to contain the region’s debt crisis, said
 Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak &
Co. in New York.  “There’s a lot of headline risk out there,” Wilkinson
said in a telephone interview.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy have agreed to ask euro-region leaders to assess
a “comprehensive and ambitious” package of measures to solve
the region’s debt crisis at a summit on Oct. 23, German
government spokesman Steffen Seibert said today in an e-mailed
statement. They intend for the leaders to agree to the measures
at a second meeting by Oct. 26 at the latest, according to the
statement.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 