-- 
U.S. Tax Holiday Penalties Do Little to Discourage Job Cuts

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-10-20T15:29:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/u-s-tax-holiday-penalties-do-little-to-discourage-job-cuts-1-.html
Companies pressing for a tax holiday
on overseas profits are unlikely to make staffing decisions
based on penalties aimed at discouraging job cuts, economists
and policy experts say.  Momentum for a repatriation holiday has grown in recent
weeks with Senators  Kay Hagan , a North Carolina Democrat, and
 John McCain , an Arizona Republican, joining to introduce
legislation earlier this month. Senators  Charles Schumer , a New
York Democrat, and  Mark Kirk , an Illinois Republican, are
working on a separate repatriation measure.  With the  unemployment rate  stuck at 9.1 percent,
repatriation proposals will face scrutiny on the jobs issue.
Opponents of a tax holiday, including Democratic Senator  Carl Levin  of Michigan, have complained that companies used proceeds
of a 2004 tax holiday to buy back stock and then cut jobs.
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  returned $14.5 billion to the U.S. at a 5.25
percent rate after the 2004 holiday and reduced its workforce by
14,500 employees within a year.  Lawmakers backing tax-holiday bills are seeking to blunt
this criticism by proposing penalties for companies that reduce
their workforces after repatriating profits.  Mark Zandi , chief
economist at Moody’s Analytics in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania ,
said none of the penalties being considered would prevent
companies from eliminating positions.  “I don’t think they’ll be particularly effective,” he
said. “There are all kinds of ways around policies like this.”  Fines for Companies  The legislation introduced by Hagan and McCain would
require companies to add $75,000 to their gross income for every
position cut in the two years after repatriating offshore
profits. For a company that pays the top 35 percent corporate
rate on its taxable income and doesn’t claim deductions that
would cancel out portions of the penalty, the provision amounts
to a $26,250 fine.  A bill from Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican
who sits on the House Ways and Means Committee, would require
companies to increase their taxable income by $25,000 for each
staff cut in the two years after repatriating profits in a tax
holiday. Assuming a 35 percent corporate rate, that works out to
$8,750 in additional taxes for every eliminated position.  Bipartisan Support  Both bills were designed to secure some bipartisan support.  Companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO)  have formed a lobbying coalition, called the  WIN
America Campaign , which has backed the Hagan and Brady bills
with the penalties included.  “The goal of the legislation is simple: bring back as much
overseas money as possible so that it can be invested here in
America’s economy, not our foreign competitors’,” said Doug Thornell, a spokesman for the coalition.  Curtis Dubay, a senior tax policy analyst at the Heritage
Foundation, a Washington organization that supports limited
government, said these kinds of penalties aren’t sizable enough
to influence corporate decision-making.  “These provisions are put into bills to give members of
Congress political cover for when these things go badly,” said
Dubay, who has written studies opposing a tax holiday. “There’s
absolutely no way to require that businesses bringing money back
use it for jobs. Money is fungible and you can’t get around that
basic fact.”  Mary Hanley, Hagan’s communications director, said the
legislation “contains stiff penalties.”  “Senator Hagan looked carefully at how to improve upon
past repatriation efforts,” she said in an e-mailed statement.
“Senator Hagan believes the penalty included in her bill is a
strong disincentive for layoffs.”  Deterring Layoffs  In an Oct. 14 telephone interview, Brady said he couldn’t
be sure that his penalty would deter staffing cuts at companies
that take advantage of a holiday.  “Repatriation alone doesn’t change the marketplace,” he
said. “Companies can create jobs and sometimes they have to
shed jobs.”  Schumer hasn’t said whether he would include such penalties
in a repatriation proposal. Representative Brian Bilbray, a
California Republican, introduced repatriation legislation in
March that didn’t include any penalty for staff reductions.  Territorial System  House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp, a
 Michigan  Republican, said yesterday that he will “soon”
introduce legislation to shift the U.S. to a territorial system
of taxing overseas profits. That effort, which could permanently
exempt most or all offshore income from taxation, could
complicate efforts to advance proposals for a tax holiday.  Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour , a Republican who is
pressing for a tax holiday as a tool to boost  job creation , said
he would prefer that Congress limit the use of repatriated funds
instead of adding penalties. In a telephone interview today, he
said lawmakers could prevent companies from using repatriated
profits to pay dividends for a specified period after they
return the money to the U.S.  “We could give them a moratorium and say they have a
period of time -- let’s say 18 months -- to spend the trillions
on capital improvements, equipment, adding employees or
increasing benefits for employees,” he said.  Over the long term, Barbour said he hopes the U.S. will
move to a territorial tax system without rules on how companies
deploy offshore cash.  Focus on Incentives  Anthony Sanders, a professor of finance at  George Mason
University  in Fairfax,  Virginia , said lawmakers should focus
more on providing companies with incentives for hiring rather
than penalties for cutting jobs after repatriating profits.  Hagan’s bill, for instance, allows companies to bring home
overseas income at an 8.75 percent tax rate. The rate could be
lowered to 5.25 percent if a company’s domestic payroll expands
during 2012. Representative Shelley Berkley, a Nevada Democrat,
has said she may propose legislation that would contain a 25
percent rate for repatriated profits. The rate would drop to as
low as 5.25 percent if a company’s payroll grew by 14 percent.  “Having a positive mechanism is a better way to get at the
issue,” Sanders said. “Corporate accountants are going to be
very effective at finding ways to get around government mandates
and penalties.”  All the attention to what a tax holiday would mean for jobs
is missing a larger point, said  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , an adviser
to McCain’s 2008 presidential campaign and former director of
the  Congressional Budget Office . He maintains that a holiday
that would encourage companies to bring home billions of dollars
in profits will aid the economy in any case.  “You shouldn’t judge the success of repatriation by the
behavior of the firms,” he said. “If you have a firm that
repatriates profits and makes new investments, buys back some
shares, that cash still flows into the economy somewhere.”  The Hagan bill is S 1671, the Brady bill is HR 1834 and the
Bilbray bill is HR 1036.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  