-- 
U.S. Stocks Advance as EU Considers $1.3 Trillion Rescue Fund

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-10-20T20:34:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-ebay-shares-decline-in-germany.html
U.S. stocks rose, recovering from
earlier losses, as European governments considered deploying
$1.3 trillion in funds to tame the sovereign debt crisis.  Financial shares gained the most among 10 industries in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, adding 1.8 percent as a group.
 Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB)  and  KeyCorp (KEY)  rose at least 6.9 percent as
earnings topped projections.  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) 
rallied 3.3 percent as higher shipments and increased cigarette
prices in Asia helped the company beat profit estimates. EBay
Inc. declined 3.1 percent after the online marketplace forecast
sales and income that missed some forecasts.  The S&P 500 rose 0.5 percent to 1,215.39 at 4 p.m. New York
time, after falling as much as 1 percent and rallying 0.8
percent earlier today. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  climbed
37.16 points, or 0.3 percent, to 11,541.78.  “This whole situation makes doing my job, as a guy who’s
trying to buy stocks based on a long-term view, almost laughably
difficult,” Brian Barish, who helps oversee about $8 billion as
Denver-based president of Cambiar Investors LLC, said in a
telephone interview. “The market is hypersensitive as to
whether or not a plan will emerge that will stabilize Europe.”  The  S&P 500  rose from the threshold of a  bear market  early
this month amid optimism over earnings and steps by European
leaders to support banks. The rebound brought the gauge close to
the top of a price range between 1,074.77 and 1,230.71, where
it’s traded for more than two months. The S&P 500 briefly
climbed above that range on Oct. 18, reaching 1,233.10.  Rescue Fund  Stocks rebounded today as two people familiar with the
matter said Europe may combine the temporary and permanent
rescue funds to unleash as much as 940 billion euros to fight
the crisis. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  said in a joint statement they want euro-region
leaders to agree on a “comprehensive and ambitious” plan as
the EU plans another debt summit on Oct. 26.  “ Europe  needs some sort of TARP-like facility to backstop
the banks to prevent contagion,”  Hank Smith , chief investment
officer at Haverford Trust Co. in Radnor, Pennsylvania, said in
a telephone interview. Smith’s firm manages about $6.1 billion.
“It was difficult to do in the United States and it’s 17 times
more difficult to do it in Europe,” he said. “In the meantime,
the market will seesaw back and forth.”  In the U.S., better-than-expected corporate earnings and a
report showing that manufacturing in the Philadelphia area
unexpectedly expanded also helped lift stocks.  Earnings Season  Profit for S&P 500 companies will climb 17 percent in the
third quarter and rise 18 percent to a record $99.27 for all of
2011, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg
yesterday. About three quarters of the S&P 500 companies that
reported results since Oct. 11 beat analysts’ estimates.  “Our forecast is that we avoid an economic recession,”
 Stephen Wood , who helps oversee about $163 billion as the New
York-based chief market strategist for Russell Investments, said
in a telephone interview. “The earnings season looks to be a
strong one. As the exogenous risks, including Europe, begin to
abate, the market is going to discriminate between stronger
earnings and better-run companies.”  The KBW Bank Index of 24 stocks rose 1.9 percent, after
falling as much as 1.3 percent.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  added 2.7
percent to $33.13.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  gained 2.4 percent to $30.08.  Fifth Third climbed 9.1 percent, the most in the S&P 500,
to $11.63. Quarterly net income at Ohio’s biggest lender more
than doubled and the profitability of loans improved. KeyCorp,
Ohio’s second-biggest bank, added 6.9 percent to $6.81, after
profit beat estimates as bad loans declined.  Philip Morris  Jumps  Philip Morris jumped 3.3 percent to $68.19. Chief Executive
Officer Louis Camilleri raised prices in  Japan , Australia and
Indonesia, where demand pushed total shipments higher by 4.4
percent. Excluding excise taxes, total sales at Philip Morris,
which generates all of its revenue outside the U.S., advanced 26
percent to $8.36 billion.  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  lost 3.1 percent to $32.15. The company is
spending to roll out new platforms and products and integrating
acquisitions made in the past year to increase the use of its
services across the Web, moves that may weigh on earnings in
coming quarters.  Dell Inc. (DELL)  sank 5.4 percent to $15.05 amid concerns raised
by one of its suppliers,  Western Digital Corp. (WDC) , that the worst
flooding in Thailand in five decades may hamper production for
months. Dell, based in  Round Rock , Texas, is one of Western
Digital’s biggest customers, according to supply-chain data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Momentum and Breadth  Investors should start buying stocks because indicators of
momentum and breadth suggest the S&P 500’s rally from an October
low will last, said Tom McClellan, editor of the McClellan
Market Report.  The benchmark for U.S. equities formed an outside day
reversal on Oct. 18, when its intraday high and low exceeded
those of the previous day. That pattern, along with charts
including the McClellan advance-decline summation index, showed
the rally that lifted the S&P 500 as much as 15 percent from its
2011 intraday low will extend until February, McClellan said in
a telephone interview yesterday.  “The way that the market had an outside day reversal
showing strength was very impressive,” said McClellan, who
started publishing the newsletter in 1995 with his father
Sherman, creator of the McClellan Oscillator. “You can get into
a condition where there is just so much money trying to charge
through the door to get into the market that you don’t ever get
a pullback you’d like to get, to get on board. And I saw a lot
of signs that we’re in that condition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  