-- 
Consumers Most Negative on U.S. Economy Outlook Since Recession

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-10-20T13:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/u-s-consumers-most-negative-on-economy-since-recession-in-bloomberg-index.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S.
economic outlook slumped in October to the lowest level since
the recession, highlighting the challenges facing the biggest
part of the economy.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index’s monthly expectations
gauge dropped to minus 45, the worst reading since February
2009. The weekly measure of current conditions was minus 48.4
for the period ended Oct. 16, up from minus 50.8 the prior week
that was close to a record low.  A volatile stock market, little hiring and a lack of wage
gains are souring Americans’ moods, raising the risk that the
 consumer spending  that accounts for 70 percent of the economy
will slump. Policy makers from Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to President  Barack Obama  are taking steps to spur
growth in the world’s largest economy.  The report “is indicative of the sour mood of the American
public,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg
LP in New York. They now “expect economic conditions to
deteriorate regardless of the recent increase in economic
activity.”  A separate report today showed little improvement in the
labor market. First-time claims for jobless insurance dropped by
6,000 to 403,000 in the week ended Oct. 15, according to Labor
Department figures released in Washington. The median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a decline to
400,000.  Stocks declined on concern that  Germany  may postpone a
European debt-crisis summit. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
fell 0.2 percent to 1,207.88 at 9:38 a.m. in  New York .  Components Increase  The weekly comfort index showed gains in all three of its
components. The measure of Americans’ views of the current state
of the economy rose to minus 85.8 last week from minus 87.1 in
the prior period. The gauge of personal finances climbed to
minus 7.7 from minus 11.5. The buying climate index moved up to
minus 51.5 from minus 53.7.  The improvements are only “a tepid advance from the
brink,”  Gary Langer , president of Langer Research Associates
LLC in New York, which compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in
a statement. “Any way you slice it, consumer sentiment is in
its longest, deepest slump in at least a quarter century.”  The Bloomberg comfort index, which began in December 1985,
has averaged minus 46.1 this year compared with minus 45.7 for
all of 2010 and minus 47.9 in 2009, the year the recession
ended, the report showed.  Consumers’ outlook on the economy echoes the results of the
Fed’s  Beige Book  survey released yesterday.  Beige Book  “Overall economic activity continued to expand in
September, although many districts described the pace of growth
as ‘modest’ or ‘slight,’” the central bank said. Conditions in
the labor market were “little changed, on balance, in
September” and several districts saw “only limited and
selective demand for new hires.”  Bernanke this month told a congressional committee that the
two-year-old economic recovery is “close to faltering,” while
repeating his forecast for a pickup in growth.  The economy is holding up, reports showed yesterday.
Housing starts jumped 15 percent last month to a 658,000 annual
rate, the most since April 2010.  At the same time, stocks continue to gyrate, adding to
Americans’ worries about their wealth. Equities declined
yesterday on concern about the strength of the  U.S. economy  and
an impasse over European bailout talks. A day earlier, the
benchmark gauge rose to the highest level since August.  Michigan Sentiment  Other data point to erosion in confidence. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of consumer
sentiment dropped in October as Americans’ outlooks for the
economy and their finances slumped to the lowest level since
1980.  Eden Prairie , Minnesota-based SuperValu Inc., the owner of
Save-A-Lot and Albertsons grocery stores, is among companies
affected by the “fragile” consumer and economic environment,
according to Chief Executive Officer Craig Herkert.  “With recent headlines about the ongoing challenges facing
today’s consumer, it comes as no surprise that shoppers continue
to show signs of thrift,” Herkert said yesterday on a
conference call with analysts. “Consumer confidence remains low
and unemployment remains high. As long as Americans continue to
express broad financial concerns, personal spending will be
constrained.”  Survey Respondents  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three. The most recent reading is
based on the average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The monthly expectations gauge is measured separately and
reflects the responses of 500 households polled over the past
two weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  