-- 
Pentagon Chief Panetta Plans Asia Talks on Deterring Threats

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-10-21T02:40:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/u-s-defense-chief-panetta-to-discuss-threats-with-asia-allies.html
U.S. Defense Secretary Leon Panetta
heads for  Indonesia ,  Japan  and  South Korea  today to encourage
more security cooperation that would deter threats from North
Korea and provide a hedge against military expansion by China.  Panetta will meet in Bali on Oct. 23 with Indonesian
Defense Minister Purnomo Yusgiantoro and members of the
 Association of Southeast Asian Nations  before traveling to Tokyo
and  Seoul  early next week. The stops are his first visits to the
three countries since taking office July 1, succeeding Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates .  Arriving in Seoul on Oct. 26, Panetta will stress the
U.S.’s determination to deter North Korea and to prevail in any
conflict should that fail, a U.S. defense official told
reporters in Washington yesterday. The official spoke on
condition of anonymity to discuss the private talks.  Panetta embarks on his trip as other U.S. officials prepare
to resume direct talks with  North Korea  next week in Geneva to
help prevent the totalitarian Asian nation from taking further
hostile actions.  North Korea abandoned six-nation nuclear disarmament talks
involving the U.S., South Korea, Japan, China and  Russia  in
April 2009 and followed with a second nuclear test, two alleged
attacks on South Korea, and revelations of a secret uranium-
enrichment program.  North Korea  Gates had expressed concern during his visits to Seoul that
South Korea may not display the same degree of restraint in its
response to North Korea the next time it’s attacked, potentially
spurring a wider conflict.  The U.S. has sought to coordinate its efforts on North
Korea with officials in Seoul and  Tokyo , as well as the other
nations that had been involved in the joint talks. Panetta’s
trip follows South Korean President Lee Myung-bak’s state visit
to Washington last week for meetings with President  Barack Obama 
as the  U.S. Congress  gave long-awaited approval for free-trade
agreements with South Korea, Colombia and  Panama .  North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  yesterday was quoted in the
Russian government daily Rossiiskaya Gazeta as saying that he’s
willing to improve ties with the U.S. if it abandons its
“hostile policy toward North Korea and shows good will.”  In Japan, the U.S. faces opposition from residents and
leaders in Okinawa to long-held plans for moving a U.S. Marine
base to a less-populated part of the island. Okinawans have
pressed for the U.S. to remove its forces entirely.  U.S. Base Plans  Panetta will emphasize to Japanese leaders during his stop
there beginning Oct. 24 that the Obama administration is
determined to move forward with the base realignment plans,
crafted through years of negotiations, the U.S. defense official
said. The U.S. sees the move as integral in keeping a strong
defense presence in the region, the official said.  Japan also is a prospective customer for U.S. fighter jets.
Lockheed Martin Corp., Boeing Co. and Eurofighter GmbH submitted
bids last month to supply Japan with fighter jets in a contest
that may be worth more than $4 billion. Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed proposed the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, while Chicago-
based Boeing offered the F-18 Super Hornet and Eurofighter put
forward the Typhoon.  Japan plans to pick a winner this year to supply about 40
fighters as it works to replace aging planes and bolster
defenses against potential threats from North Korea and  China .  In Indonesia, Panetta’s meeting with Yusgiantoro in Bali
will stress the need for the Southeast Asian nation to continue
reforming its military and adhering to human-rights standards
for continued cooperation with the American military, a second
U.S. defense official told reporters at the Pentagon yesterday.  Rights Violations  Gates, on a visit to the capital Jakarta last year,
restored ties with Indonesia’s special forces after a 12-year
gap, in a move criticized at the time by New York-based Human
Rights Watch. The elite unit known as Kopassus, which previously
had been cited for human rights violations, had already moved on
to take part in United Nations peacekeeping operations.  The U.S. military cooperation now is at the stage of
conducting exchanges on non-lethal topics such as human rights
training and military medicine, one of the U.S. defense
officials said.  Panetta also will meet in Bali with counterparts from the
10 member  Association of Southeast Asian Nations , known as
Asean, in a push by the Obama administration to get the
countries working more closely with each other and with the U.S.
and finding peaceful ways of settling territorial disputes with
China in the  South China Sea . Chinese Defense Minister Liang Guanglie met with the group earlier this year.  No China Stop  Panetta isn’t stopping in Beijing this time because the two
sides traditionally conduct alternating visits of their defense
chiefs every other year, one of the U.S. defense officials said.
Gates was in China in January, and the U.S. expects the Chinese
defense minister to visit  Washington  next year, the official
said.  China also has rebuked the Obama administration for its
announcement last month that it would sell  Taiwan  $5.3 billion
in upgrades for the island nation’s fleet of Lockheed Martin
Corp. F-16 fighter jets. China, which regards Taiwan as a
province to be reunited with the mainland by force if necessary,
said the latest sale would hurt its military ties with the U.S.  The U.S., which has sought to balance its commitment to
help Taiwan deter China with Obama’s push to improve relations
with officials in Beijing, rejected Taiwan’s request for a more
advanced model of the F-16.  Asked whether any regular military talks between the U.S.
and China have been scheduled, the U.S. defense official said
the two sides are still discussing a resumption.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  