-- 
U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for Oct. 20 to Jan. 2012 (Text)

-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 
2011-10-20T12:45:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-oct-20-to-jan-2012-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the National Weather
Service in  Camp Springs , Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - The Drought Outlook for October 20,
2011
through January 2012 reflects forecasts and outlooks for periods
ranging
from the next few days to the next few months, La Nina
composites for
the November - January period, and, to a lesser extent,
composites of
the small set of La Nina events that immediately followed a
previous La
Nina episode. Across the southern tier of states and in the
central
Plains, drought is expected to persist and expand into adjacent
areas.
Except for wetness being favored in Colorado and northern  New
Mexico  for
the 6-10 day period, all tools are in remarkable concert,
pointing
toward drier than normal conditions. Thus, this is a high
confidence
forecast. Farther north, both across  North Carolina  and in a
swath from
central Illinois through central Iowa, drought is also forecast
to
persist and expand slightly, though with less confidence, as the
longer-term tools either barely favor drier than normal
conditions or
demonstrate no tilt of the odds in any direction. Moving farther
to the
north, some improvement is expected across northern Iowa and
southern
 Minnesota  while improvement is forecast in the drought areas in
northern
Minnesota and Michigan’s Upper Peninsula. Forecast tools trend
toward
more favorable conditions as one moves north through the region.
Finally, there is no tilt of the odds toward wetness or dryness
in
Hawaii, but some improvement is forecast late in the period as
the
Islands move toward a time of year when La Nina composites favor
above-normal precipitation.  SOURCE:  National Weather Service   To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  