-- 
U.S. Leading Economic Indicators Rose 0.2% in September

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-10-20T14:27:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/u-s-leading-economic-indicators-increased-0-2-in-september.html
The index of U.S. leading economic
indicators increased in September at a pace that suggests a
slower rate of growth in the coming months.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months climbed 0.2 percent after a 0.3 percent gain
in August, the New York-based research group said today. The
September increase, the lowest since a decline in April, matched
economists’ projections, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  A Federal Reserve survey published yesterday said the
economy maintained its expansion last month even as more
companies reported more doubt about the strength of the
recovery. An acceleration in growth is needed to support the job
gains that drive household spending, the biggest part of the
 U.S. economy .  “The momentum is less and less positive,” said  John Silvia , chief economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , who accurately forecast the increase.
“The problem we have is that we’re moving into an expansion
phase at a pace that’s far below what an expansion usually is.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.5 percent to
1,215.83 at 10:13 a.m. in  New York . The yield on the benchmark
Treasury 10-year note rose to 2.20 percent from 2.16 percent
late yesterday.  Labor Market  Another report today indicated the labor market has made
little improvement since the start of the year. Applications for
jobless benefits decreased by 6,000 to 403,000 in the week ended
Oct. 15, according to the Labor Department in Washington.
Economists forecast 400,000 claims, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Consumer confidence  in the U.S. rose last week to the
highest level in two months, the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index showed today. The gauge climbed to minus 48.4 in the
period to Oct. 16 from minus 50.8 the prior week.  Estimates of the 55 economists surveyed by Bloomberg for
the Conference Board’s leading economic index ranged from a drop
of 0.1 percent to an increase of 0.5 percent.  “The LEI is pointing to soft economic conditions through
the end of 2011,”  Ken Goldstein , an economist at the Conference
Board, said today in a statement. “The probability of a
downturn starting over the next few months remains at about 50
percent.”  New Orders  Five of the 10 components of the leading index contributed
to the increase in September. In addition to the interest-rate
spread, they include consumer expectations and new orders for
manufacturers.  The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, increased 0.1 percent from
the prior month.  The coincident index tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and
production -- the measures used by the  National Bureau of
Economic Research  to determine the beginning and end of U.S.
recessions.  The gauge of lagging indicators rose 0.2 percent last
month. The index measures business lending, length of
employment, service prices and ratios of labor costs,
inventories and  consumer credit .  Seven of the 10 indicators that make up the leading index
are known ahead of time: stock prices, jobless claims, building
permits, consumer expectations, the yield curve, factory hours
and supplier delivery times. The Conference Board estimates new
orders for  consumer goods , bookings for capital goods and  money
supply  adjusted for inflation.  U.S. Economy  The U.S. economy, the world’s largest, expanded at a 1.3
percent annual rate in the second quarter after growing at a 0.4
percent pace in the prior quarter, according to Commerce
Department figures.  “There’s a lot of uncertainty and things to worry about in
the world economy, and things like continued high unemployment
in the U.S.,” Gregory Hayes, chief financial officer for  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) , said yesterday in a conference call with
analysts. At the same time, the Hartford, Connecticut-based
company boosted its full-year earnings forecast after 11 percent
profit growth in the third quarter.  Payrolls increased 103,000 in September, as the
 unemployment rate  held at 9.1 percent, the Labor Department said
Oct. 7. Gross domestic product will advance 1.7 percent this
year and 2 percent in 2012, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists earlier this month.  “Overall economic activity continued to expand in
September, although many districts described the pace of growth
as ‘modest’ or ‘slight,’” the Fed said in its Beige Book survey
released yesterday in Washington. “Contacts generally noted
weaker or less certain outlooks for business conditions.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this month told a
congressional committee that the two-year-old recovery is
“close to faltering,” while repeating his forecast for a
pickup in growth. Last month, the Fed announced a plan to spur
the economy with lower borrowing costs by replacing $400 billion
of short-term  Treasury securities  in its portfolio with longer-
term bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  