-- 
U.S. Urges China to Ease Tibet Policy After Nun’s Immolation

-- B y   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-10-20T08:36:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/u-s-urges-china-to-ease-its-tibet-policy-after-nun-s-immolation.html
The U.S. repeated a call for  China 
to respect human rights and particularly “the rights of
Tibetans” after a ninth young Tibetan set herself on fire in
protest at Chinese rule.  “We urge Chinese leaders to address counterproductive
policies in Tibetan areas that have created tensions; and to
protect  Tibet ’s unique religious, cultural, and linguistic
identity,” the  State Department ’s press office said in a
statement yesterday. Tibetan protest in China has focused in the
central province of Sichuan since Chinese forces in April
arrested what Tibetan human rights groups say were more than 300
Buddhist monks from the Kirti Monastery there.  Tenzin Wangmo, 20, a Buddhist nun in the province’s Aba
County, called Ngaba by Tibetans, died after immolating herself
on Oct. 17, according to the Tibetan government in exile headed
by the  Dalai Lama . Eight Buddhist monks from Aba, ranging in age
from 19 to 29, have carried out similar protests since April,
the exiled administration says. Five of the protesters have died
and “the condition and whereabouts of the other four are
unknown,” the exile government’s prime minister, Lobsang
Sangay, said yesterday.  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu said today in
Beijing that Tibet is an issue internal to China, which will
oppose interference on the matter from other countries.  "There’s no such thing as a ‘Tibetan question’ as played up
by some forces," Jiang told journalists in a briefing.  Flag Protests  Tibetans in Aba have held street demonstrations and
strikes, displaying the Tibetan flag and pictures of the Dalai
Lama according to Bahukutumbi Raman, an Indian security analyst
and retired intelligence officer who monitors Tibetan affairs.
Tibetans are seeking political autonomy and the return to their
Himalayan homeland of the Dalai Lama, who has lived in  India 
since fleeing in 1959 from China’s military takeover of Tibet.  Tibetans say China is attacking their culture, religion and
environment with policies that have moved thousands of ethnic
Han Chinese into Tibet in the name of economic development.
Protests have increased since riots broke out across the region
in 2008. While the Dalai Lama has urged Tibetans to avoid
violence, China accuses him of secretly seeking independence for
Tibet, which forms a quarter of China’s territory.  Chinese security restrictions in Sichuan “have turned
critical as many people were either detained, arrested or
imprisoned,” Sangay told a  prayer meeting  yesterday in memory
of the dead protesters.  To contact the reporter on this story: James Rupert in  New Delhi 
at   jrupert3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 