-- 
U.S. Winter May Be Cold and Wet in North, Mild and Dry in South

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-10-20T18:12:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/u-s-winter-may-be-cold-and-wet-in-north-mild-and-dry-in-south.html
The northern U.S. will be colder and
wetter than normal in the coming winter as the drought in the
South hangs on and probably spreads to  Florida , according to the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.  A cooling in the Pacific Ocean known as La Nina will drive
much of the weather throughout the U.S., Mike Halpert, deputy
director of NOAA’s Climate Prediction Center, said on a
conference call today. The phenomenon tends to lead to a cooler,
wetter North and a warmer, drier South.  The U.S. Northeast may also receive more snow than normal
from December to February, Halpert said. Forecasts can’t be made
with confidence for that region because of another weather
pattern known as the Arctic Oscillation, which has a much
greater impact on how much snow falls.  “Big snows in the East are often times related to the
Arctic Oscillation and we don’t have the ability to forecast
that much more than a week or two in advance,” said Halpert,
who is based in  Camp Springs ,  Maryland .  This will be the second year in a row La Nina has dominated
weather across the U.S. The phenomenon is blamed for the
widespread drought across the South that contributed to
wildfires over 3.5 million acres and caused about $5 billion in
agricultural losses in  Texas , said David Brown, director of
NOAA’s  Southern Region Climate Services .  Parts of southeastern Texas need 30 inches of rain to
return to normal moisture levels, and a large part of the state
only received 5 percent to 10 percent of its normal
precipitation in the last year, he said on the conference call.  Drought Conditions  Currently, 91 percent of Texas, 87 percent of  Oklahoma  and
63 percent of  New Mexico  have either  extreme or exceptional 
drought conditions, the two most severe levels, Brown said. The
La Nina-influenced winter season is expected to spread the
drought throughout the southern U.S. into Florida.  Florida is the world’s second-largest citrus producer
behind  Brazil .  “Odds favor drier-than-normal conditions to continue this
winter,” said Brown, who is based in  Fort Worth , Texas.
“Certainly La Nina is the most reliable predictor.”  In addition to drought in the South, Halpert said the most
likely scenario for  the coming winter  is for the northern U.S.
from the Pacific Northwest to the  Great Lakes  to be colder and
wetter than normal.  Flood Risk  The northern Great Plains and Ohio and Tennessee valleys
will also have an increased chance of flooding, according to a
NOAA statement. Earlier this year, heavy snows and rains caused
record flooding on the Mississippi, Missouri and Ohio rivers.  Halpert said the  Arctic Oscillation  is like a see-saw of
high and low pressure over the  North Pole  and the temperate
regions to its south.  When the oscillation is positive, colder air stays over the
pole, and when it is negative the frigid air drops down over
temperate regions including the U.S.  The exact cause of the pressure flip-flop isn’t known and
it’s hard to predict, he said.  “Sitting here in October, there is really no way to say
what is going to happen in December and the rest of the
winter,” Halpert said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 Bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 