-- 
U.S. Company Credit Risk Climbs Amid Discord on Europe Bailout

-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-10-20T17:10:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/u-s-company-credit-risk-falls-amid-europe-draft-plan-on-lending.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate
credit risk rose for a second day as European leaders disagreed
on plans to increase the region’s bailout fund and protect banks
from a potential Greek default.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, rose 1.2 basis points to a mid-
price of 135.6 basis points at 12:40 p.m. New York time,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. Credit-
default swaps on Credit Agricole SA increased 12 basis points to
244.5 as of 11 a.m., while those on Bank of America Corp. jumped
25.7 basis points to 378.2, according to data provider CMA.  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, has climbed from 132.7
basis points on Oct. 18 as discord has emerged over plans to
stop the spread of the region’s debt crisis by offering credit
lines to Spain and  Italy . German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
canceled a speech to parliament scheduled for tomorrow because
of a deadlock over the proposals, according to lawmakers.  “What we have now is a crisis of confidence which creates
a crisis of liquidity,” Scott Stengel, a partner who
specializes in banking law at King & Spalding LLP, said in an
interview today with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday.” “There’s nothing worse for financial
institutions.”  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 