-- 
U.S. October Philadelphia Business Outlook Report (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-10-20T14:05:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/u-s-october-philadelphia-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Philadelphia area manufacturing activity from the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia .  Responses to the Business Outlook Survey this month suggest that
regional manufacturing is showing signs of recovering, following
several months of decline. The survey’s broad indicators for
activity, shipments, and new orders recorded positive readings
after two months in negative territory.  Responding firms
indicated that employment was slightly higher this month.  The
broadest indicator of future activity remained positive and
showed marginal improvement over its reading last month.  Indicators Suggest Improvement  The survey’s broadest measure of manufacturing conditions, the
diffusion index of current activity, increased from -17.5 in
September to 8.7, the first positive reading in three months.
The current new orders index paralleled the rise in the general
activity index, increasing 19 points and returning to positive
territory.  The shipments index also recorded a positive reading,
increasing from -22.8 in September to 13.6 this month.  Labor market conditions improved only slightly this month.
Nearly 18 percent of the firms reported an increase in
employment, but 17 percent reported a decrease. The current
employment index remained slightly positive but decreased 4
points from its reading in September. The average workweek index
increased notably from -13.7 to 3.1.  However, the percentage of
firms reporting a longer workweek (15 percent) was only slightly
greater than the percentage reporting a shorter one (12 percent).  Prices for Manufactured Goods Are Near Steady  The percentage of firms reporting decreases in prices for their
manufactured goods (15 percent) was slightly higher than the
percentage reporting price increases (12 percent) this month.
The prices received diffusion index decreased from a reading
just above zero last month to -2.5. The majority of firms (69
percent) reported steady prices for their own manufactured
products in October.  Increasing costs were, on balance, slightly less widespread this
month compared to last month. The prices paid diffusion index
decreased 3 points. Nearly 31 percent of firms reported paying
higher prices for inputs this month, and 11 percent reported
lower prices.  Six-Month Indicators Improve  Indicators for future activity remained positive and
strengthened moderately this month.  The broadest indicator of
future activity improved, increasing 6 points, and is now at its
highest reading in six months.  The indexes for future new
orders and shipments also improved modestly, increasing 5 points
and 2 points, respectively. The index for future employment
paralleled the increase in other future indicators, rising 3
points. The percentage of firms expecting to increase employment
over the next six months (25 percent) is higher than the
percentage expecting to decrease employment (11 percent).  For this month’s special questions, manufacturers were asked
about changes in their workforce and the changing use of
flexible workers over the past year (see Special Questions).
The share of firms that increased their total workforce over the
past year (46 percent) outnumbered those decreasing their
workforce (24 percent), and the mix of employment has changed
for many firms.  For example, 74 percent of firms indicated that
they used temporary or agency workers, and 36 percent of these
firms indicated that they have increased the total share of
these workers over the past year.  Summary  According to respondents to the October Business Outlook Survey,
the region???s manufacturing sector is recovering, following
several months of decline. The survey’s current indicators
suggest an overall increase in the demand for manufactured goods
in October, and activity and shipments were reported to be
higher. Firms were slightly more optimistic about future growth
overall, with all of the survey’s future indicators showing
improvement over their levels in September.  Special Questions (October 2011)  1. Has your total workforce decreased, increased, or stayed the
same over the last year?  Decreased            24.0%
Stayed the same      29.1%
Increased            45.6%
No response           1.3%
Total          100.0%  Notes: (1) Items may not add to 100 percent because of omission
by respondents. (2) All data are seasonally adjusted. (3)
Diffusion indexes represent the percentage of respondents
indicating an increase minus the percentage indicating a
decrease. (4) Survey data reflect information received through
October 18, 2011. 