-- 
Ex-UBS Trader Kweku Adoboli Faked ETF Transactions, U.K. Prosecutors Say

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-10-20T14:24:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/ubs-trader-case-sent-to-u-k-crown-court-for-nov-22-hearing.html
Kweku Adoboli, the trader accused of
costing  UBS AG (UBSN)  $2.3 billion by making unauthorized trades,
falsified records on exchange-traded-fund transactions,
prosecutors said.  Prosecutors amended two of the four charges against Adoboli
to indicate that records he allegedly falsified were on ETF
trades. A London magistrates court today transferred the case
against the 31-year-old to a criminal court where he will be
expected to enter a plea on the accusations at a Nov. 22
hearing.  The charges, which also include two counts of fraud and
date back to 2008, cover “a large number of transactions,”
prosecutor  David Williams  said at the hearing today. “He
exposed the bank to risk of large losses.”  Adoboli has been in custody since his arrest on Sept. 15,
when UBS asked the  City of London  police to detain him after he
reported the losses. He was charged two days later with fraud
and false accounting. The trading loss prosecutors claim he was
responsible for led to the departures of Chief Executive Officer
 Oswald Gruebel  and the co-heads of the Swiss bank’s global
equities business. Adoboli was fired by the bank on Sept. 17,
Williams said.  ETFs are exchange-listed products that mirror indexes,
commodities, bonds and currencies and allow investors to buy and
sell them like stocks.  No Plea  Adoboli, who holds a Ghanaian passport, appeared before a
panel of three judges today and his lawyer Patrick Gibbs said he
wouldn’t indicate how his client planned to plead. He said
through his lawyer at a hearing last month he was “sorry beyond
words” for his “disastrous miscalculations.”  Several of Adoboli’s family members and at least 15 friends
were in attendance at today’s hearing, where he wore a black
suit, white shirt and purple tie. Adoboli faces as many as 10
years in prison if found guilty, according to U.K. sentencing
guidelines. Time spent in custody beforehand would be deducted
from any sentence.  Adoboli is being held at Wandsworth prison in southwest
 London . His lawyers didn’t ask the court to release him on bail.  UBS questioned one of Adoboli’s trades in August this year,
and he “provided a good and plausible explanation,” Williams
said. The bank then asked him on Sept. 13 about further trades
he’d made that could expose the bank to large losses, and
whether he’d told the credit-risk department. He said he hadn’t.  Counterparties  The following day, UBS asked him to confirm “the exact
identities of the counterparties” on the trades and he didn’t
respond, Williams said at the hearing today. Adoboli left the
office at lunchtime and went to his apartment in east London,
where he e-mailed the bank about the positions.  “The bank was anxious to have him explain,” and he
returned at 3:45 p.m. and cooperated with UBS managers, the
prosecutor said. The bank called the police late that night and
Adoboli was taken to Bishopsgate precinct, the closest one to
UBS’s London headquarters. He was cautioned about his rights and
interviewed and “made no admissions,” Williams said.  Prosecutors would have opposed any request for bail by
Adoboli because of his close relationship to UBS employees and
the risk that he could interfere with witnesses, Williams said.
Adoboli is in debt and also has close ties to  Ghana , the
prosecutor said.  In addition to the departure of Gruebel and the co-heads of
global equities, Francois Gouws and Yassine Bouhara, the bank
has suspended “a number of front office staff” pending further
disciplinary action, Carsten Kengeter, head of the investment
bank, said in a memo to staff.  Delta One  Adoboli worked for UBS’s investment bank on its Delta One
desk, which handles trades for clients, typically helping them
to speculate on, or hedge the performance of, a basket of
securities. The group also trades using the bank’s own money.
UBS has said that no client positions were affected.  UBS’s loss came from trading in Standard & Poor’s 500, DAX
and EuroStoxx index futures, according to the Zurich-based bank.
The trades’ risk was masked by fictitious positions, UBS said.  Adoboli “dishonestly abused” his position as a senior
trader on the global synthetic-equity desk “to make a gain”
for himself and “to expose UBS to a risk of loss,” prosecutors
said in court papers.  The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority and the Swiss
Financial Market Supervisory Authority are jointly investigating
control failures at the bank that allowed the trades to go
undetected. The joint regulatory probe will be conducted at the
same time as investigations by police, prosecutors and an
internal review by the Swiss bank.  ‘Worldwide Repercussions’  The FSA and the Swiss regulator, known as Finma, said their
investigation will focus on the details of the allegedly
unauthorized trades, control failures that allowed them to
happen, and an assessment of the bank’s methods to prevent
fraudulent trading.  Gruebel resigned on Sept. 24, saying the trading incident
has “worldwide repercussions.” He was replaced on an interim
basis by  Sergio Ermotti , who is trying to bolster investor
confidence in a bank that Gruebel had said included “one of the
best” risk-management units in the industry.  The bank said earlier this month that it expects a
“modest” third-quarter profit as gains from wider credit
spreads and the sale of bonds helped cushion the $2.3 billion
loss. UBS had said last month it may be unprofitable after
discovering the unauthorized trades. The bank is due to report
third-quarter earnings on Oct. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  