-- 
UBS May Cut Jobs at Investment Bank: JPMorgan

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-10-20T08:55:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/ubs-may-cut-1-700-more-jobs-at-investment-bank-jpmorgan-says.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest bank,
may cut about 1,700 more jobs at the investment bank as it
shrinks the fixed-income business, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts
led by Kian Abouhossein said.  “Investors would welcome a strategy aimed at shrinking
UBS’s investment bank division and aligning it to mainly support
the private banking franchise,” the analysts said in a note
today. “We would expect the restructured investment bank to
consume materially less capital with improved returns for the
investment bank and the group.”  The bank could reduce risk-weighted assets in the fixed-
income business by 70 billion Swiss francs ($77.4 billion),
freeing up about 7 billion francs of capital, the analysts
estimated. The job cuts, representing about 11 percent of total
headcount at the investment bank, would be on top of the
announced reductions of about 1,575 positions, they said.  Zurich-based UBS plans to reorganize the investment bank to
focus on “advisory,  capital markets  and client flow and
solutions businesses,” making the unit “less complex,” Chief
Financial Officer Tom Naratil said at an investor presentation
in  London  on Oct. 4. The unit will aim to boost return on equity
as UBS reallocates more shareholders’ funds toward wealth and
asset management, Naratil said. The bank plans to explain its
strategy to investors on Nov. 17.   The Swiss bank may shrink its rates and structured credit 
businesses to one third of their current size, exit the 
commodities business and slim the credit trading unit by about 
20 percent, the JPMorgan analysts, who have an “overweight” 
rating on the bank, estimated. UBS is unlikely to seek 
reorganization of its equities business, they said.  Trading Loss  The bank's interim chief executive officer, Sergio 
Ermotti, has decided to reduce the size of the investment bank
and to bolster UBS's focus on  wealth management , the Wall 
Street Journal reported today, citing unidentified people 
familiar with his thinking.  UBS said last month it suffered a $2.3 billion loss from
unauthorized trading in stock index futures at its investment
bank. The trading losses have led to the departures of Chief
Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  and the co-heads of global
equities, Francois Gouws and Yassine Bouhara, as well as the
suspension of a number of front office staff.  Kweku Adoboli, the trader accused of causing the loss, goes
before a London judge today and may enter a plea before his case
is transferred to a higher criminal court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  