-- 
UN Board May Use Sampling to Approve Carbon Projects in 2012

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-10-20T12:48:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/un-board-may-use-sampling-to-approve-carbon-projects-in-2012.html
The United Nations-overseen carbon
credit executive board may use sampling to speed approvals for
projects and offsets as early as next year, Chairman Martin Hession said in  London .  A “risk-based” assessment model would mean the Clean
Development Mechanism executive board could closely assess a
portion of projects and credit-supply requests instead of
investigating each application as it currently does, Hession
told reporters today at the Carbon Show in London.  A record of at least 592 projects entered the validation
stage of the CDM program in the three months ended September,
about 14 percent of all projects seeking registration under the
program of the 1997  Kyoto Protocol . Almost 3,000 projects have
been approved since the program started. Emission reduction
projects are seeking registration by the end of next year
because of a deadline imposed by the European Union, whose
factories and power stations are the main buyers of credits.  The sampling would require more consistent applications
from the audit firms employed by projects in developing nations
seeking credits, Hession said. “It’s the way we need to go,”
he said. “We’re busier than ever.”  The board is seeking feedback from regulators in proposed
carbon markets in  Australia ,  California  and  South Korea  as it
seeks to streamline its approval process and stem criticism that
it ratifies too many credits from projects that are not
credible, Hession said.  UN Credits Fall  The U.K. is seeking support for tighter emission-reduction
targets from EU countries and other nations to boost demand for
credits, Hession earlier told delegates at the conference. He is
a climate negotiator for Britain.  UN emission credits dropped to a record as a French-German
split over Europe’s rescue strategy emerged before a meeting in
Brussels tomorrow to craft a solution to the region’s sovereign-
debt crisis.  UN credits for December dropped as much as 2.3 percent to
6.69 euros ($9.25) a metric ton on ICE Futures  Europe  exchange.
They were at 6.80 euros at 1:25 p.m. in London. European
allowances rose 4 cents to 10.06 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  