-- 
Hungary Central Bank Raises 2012 Inflation Forecast to 4.9%

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-10-20T10:16:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/hungary-central-bank-raises-2012-inflation-forecast-to-4-9-.html
Hungary’s tax and minimum-wage
increases next year will probably boost inflation to a higher
level than previously estimated, the central bank said.  The inflation rate will average 4.9 percent in 2012, rather
than 4.7 percent as predicted in September, the Magyar Nemzeti
Bank in Budapest said in a report published today.  The government is raising taxes, introducing new levies and
cutting spending to narrow the  budget deficit  to 2.5 percent of
economic output next year. The effect of the measures on prices
will outweigh a lack of pressure from domestic demand, according
to the central bank’s report.  “The increase in indirect taxes will have a significant
price-boosting impact at the beginning of 2012,” the report
said. “Although weak domestic demand may lead to a more subdued
inflation, companies may resort to raising prices to compensate
for their higher costs following the minimum wage increase.”  The forint traded at 295.97 per euro at 12:15 p.m. in
Budapest, compared with 296.04 yesterday. The yield on the
country’s benchmark five-year bond fell to 7.35 percent from
7.42 percent.  The government expects inflation to average 4.2 percent
next year. The central bank targets 3 percent inflation in the
medium term and policy makers expect the price gauge to near
that level in the first half of 2013, central bank Governor
Andras Simor said on Sept. 20.  Deficit Outlook  The government’s decision to raise the value-added tax, a
sales levy, to 27 percent, the highest in the European Union, an
increase in excise taxes on tobacco and alcoholic beverages and
an expected rise in wages following the the minimum-wage boost
are responsible for the higher projection, the study said.  The central bank expects the budget shortfall to reach 3.1
percent, Simor said on Oct. 18.  The difference between the deficit forecast stems primarily
from the central bank’s more pessimistic expectations on the
result of government measures, according to the report released
today. The MNB expects less revenue from a gambling tax and the
value-added tax and sees 40 percent of savings planned at the
state health fund “justified by measures,” the study said.  Hungary’s net interest payments on public debt will be 23
billion forint ($106 million) higher than the Cabinet’s forecast
as the forint will likely be weaker than what the government
calculated with in the budget, the study said.  The central bank calculated with a forint  exchange rate 
that’s “close to current levels,” while the budget is based on
a forint rate assumption of 268 per euro, Lorant Varga, chief
analyst at the central bank said at a press conference today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  