-- 
Union Pacific Gains After Record Sales Amid Slow Economy

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-10-20T20:17:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/union-pacific-profit-tops-estimates-as-railroad-volumes-climb.html
Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  climbed to the
highest in more than two months after rate increases helped push
the railroad’s revenue to a record high amid a slowing U.S.
economy.  Union Pacific gained 4 percent to $94.59 in New York, the
highest close since Aug. 3. The railroad said third-quarter
revenue rose 16 percent to $5.1 billion.  Class 1 railroads, which are the biggest in  North America 
by sales with Union Pacific holding the lead, saw carloads
advance about 1.3 percent in the quarter as shippers transported
more goods, according to Bloomberg Industries. Freight cars
carry raw materials including chemicals and metals, making
railroads indicators of economic health.  Union Pacific expects “a continuation of slow growth,”
not a double-dip recession, Chief Executive Officer Jim Young
said in a telephone interview. “The driver is going to be
 consumer confidence .”  Profit rose to $904 million, or $1.85 a share, topping the
$1.81 average estimate of 25 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. A
year earlier, the company posted third-quarter earnings of $778
million, or $1.56 a share.  The Omaha, Nebraska-based company’s sales topped the
average estimate of $4.99 billion in a Bloomberg survey. Total
volume rose 1 percent, while average revenue per car advanced
14 percent as the company boosted core rates.  Train speed and turnaround time at terminals deteriorated
after a Texas drought damaged tracks and the impact of flooding
earlier in the year carried over into the quarter.  ‘Slow Growth Environment’  “Considering all the weather-related issues in the quarter
and the fact that the economy had slowed, I thought the numbers
were fine,” said Art Hatfield, an analyst with Morgan Keegan &
Co. in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , who has an “outperform” rating on
the shares. “We’re in a slow growth environment. You just have
to deal with that.”  Each carload of industrial and intermodal shipments, which
can travel by truck, train and ship, generated 15 percent higher
revenue, on average, than a year earlier, Union Pacific said.  Total intermodal carloads still dropped, after the company
lost an international customer this year, and agricultural
shipments declined. Auto deliveries increased 10 percent.  “We are thinking that slow growth trajectory that we’re
seeing today continues on for the foreseeable future,”
Executive Vice President of Marketing and Sales Jack Koraleski
said on a conference call today with analysts and investors.
“As we look at it, that spells real opportunity for Union
Pacific” as energy, metal and auto demand continue to boost
volumes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  