-- 
Tunisian Women Face Peril on Eve of Election

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i ,   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i   a n d   C a m i l l e   L e   T a l l e c
-- 
2011-10-20T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/tunisian-women-fighting-emancipation-s-peril-on-eve-of-election.html
Maya Jribi, the only woman in a
leadership job at one of  Tunisia ’s main political parties, says
it’s been an uphill battle to persuade other women to run as
candidates in the Oct. 23 elections.  “I recruited some excellent lawyers but they all had
reasons not to run,” said Jribi, deputy head of the  Democratic
Progressive Party , or PDP, in an interview in the capital,
Tunis. “They didn’t have enough experience, they didn’t like
speaking in public.” Jribi’s party has put women at the top of
its candidate lists in only three of the 33 constituencies, and
she’s “not happy about it.”  Tunisian women played a major role in the protests that
ended the rule of Zine el Abidine Ben Ali and triggered revolts
across the  Middle East . Their priority now, in the Arab Spring’s
first free election, is to preserve parts of Tunisia’s old
regime, which gave women more rights than other Arab countries,
while ending its corruption and repression.  “We shouldn’t throw out the baby with the bath water,”
said Ahmed Brahim, who runs the PDM or Modernist Democratic
Pole, the only party where women head half the lists. Women’s
rights in Tunisia “are fragile because they are associated with
an authoritarian state.”  Brahim and Jribi say a victory by the Islamic Ennahdha
party, which is leading in the polls, may imperil those rights.  Like the other leading parties, Ennahdha says it will
preserve the family code, a cornerstone of the state created by
Tunisia’s founder Habib Bourguiba and continued by Ben Ali, who
is now living in exile in  Saudi Arabia . The code, dating from
the 1950s, put women on equal footing with men in divorce, work
and education.  Abortion, Contraception  Tunisian women also won the right to abortion and
contraception before their French counterparts. The country
scored highest in all five categories in a  2009 survey  of
women’s rights in the Middle East and North Africa by Freedom
House, a Washington-based non-government organization.  This year’s uprisings have brought some gains for Arab
women. Saudi Arabia’s King Abdullah last month promised that
women will be allowed to vote in the next municipal elections in
four years’ time. In Egypt and  Libya , women were prominent in
the street protests that forced  Hosni Mubarak  and  Muammar
Qaddafi  from power, though women’s groups have subsequently
complained about being marginalized by new rulers.  Ennahdha rejects the charge that it would roll back
freedoms for women.  “Why would I limit the rights of my wife and daughter?”
Ali Laarayedh, the head of the party’s constitutional committee,
said in an interview.  ‘Secular Country’  For now, the party and its leader, Rashid Ghannouchi,
deserve the benefit of the doubt, said Geoff Porter, founder of
Connecticut-based North Africa Risk Consulting.  “Whenever moderate Islamist parties do well, their secular
opponents warn that they are being moderate now but will show
their true face once elected,” he said. “I think we should
take Ennahdha at their word. Ghannouchi recognizes that over the
past 50 years Tunisia has become a secular country. He would
have his work cut out for him if he tried to roll back the
changes that have taken place.”  The struggle that all parties are having to find women to
head their candidate lists underscores the handicaps faced by
women even in more progressive states such as Tunisia.  Parties are required to put up equal numbers of male and
female candidates in the election for a 217-member assembly that
will run Tunisia for a year while it writes a new constitution.
Only the candidates at the top of each party’s lists stand a
good chance of winning seats, and only about 5 percent of lists
are headed by women.  ‘Second-Class Citizens’  “It wasn’t easy to find women willing to lead and it
wasn’t easy to find men willing to step aside,” said Brahim.
“We still have a ways to go as a society.”  Laarayedh said an Ennahdha government would expand women’s
rights by ending discrimination over dress.  Under Bourguiba and Ben Ali, women in headscarves as well
as men with beards were prevented from attending university or
working in the public administration and many companies. Full
facial veils are almost non-existent among Tunisian women,
though a recent influx of Libyan refugees has brought some to
the streets of the capital, Tunis.  “For 50 years, pious Tunisians in beards or headscarves
were kept out of many jobs,” Laarayedh said. “They were turned
into second-class citizens who could only work in textile
factories.”  ‘Personal Matter’  Jribi of the PDP says Ennahdha engages in double-talk,
presenting a moderate image in cities and pushing a more hard-
line Islam in rural areas, an allegation Laarayedh denies. The
rival candidates agree on one thing, though: that no more than
10 percent of the assembly’s seats are likely to go to women.  Of Ennahdha’s 33 lists, two are headed by women, including
a Tunis lawyer who doesn’t wear a headscarf. There are two women
in the group’s 17-member political bureau and 20 in its 100-
member party assembly.  At a Sept. 16 election meeting in Tunis, hosted by the
Ministry for Women’s Affairs, many women berated an Ennahdha
candidate for the increasing number of girls wearing headscarves
at schools, something that wasn’t tolerated under Ben Ali.  “Wearing a scarf is a personal matter,” said Khira
Sghairi, a 56-year-old retired teacher who is no. 2 on
Ennahdha’s list in the central town of Kasserine. “I have two
daughters who don’t wear it and I’ve never insisted.”  ‘More Useful’  Zina Slitti, a 33-year old nanny who was shopping in the
Tunis medina, said the focus on headscarves is misplaced. “We
are talking about scarves when there are far more critical
things to talk about, like jobs and security and corruption,”
said Slitti, who wears her hair uncovered.  Economic growth may grind to a halt this year after the
uprising scared off tourists and investors, the government and
International Monetary Fund estimate. Ben Ali, who fled to Saudi
Arabia in January, and several associates have been put on
trial, while the new government must decide how to dispose of
assets seized after his ouster, ranging from yachts to stakes in
mobile-phone companies.  Faten Khamassi, a 40-year old economics professor, might
have been one of the assembly members making that decision. She
declined an offer to head a candidate list for the Doustourna,
or Our Constitution party. Now, she’s number four on the list
for a district of Tunis.  “I thought I’d be more useful supporting a list than
heading it,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Jihen Laghmari at  jlaghmari@bloomberg.net ;
Camille Le Tallec through the Cairo newsroomt .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 