-- 
Huntington Shares Fall as Margins Narrow More Than Forecast

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-10-20T20:19:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/huntington-shares-fall-as-margins-narrow-more-than-bank-forecast.html
Huntington Bancshares Inc. fell the
most among the biggest U.S. banks in New York trading after
reporting narrower profit margins and third-quarter earnings
that relied on a one-time gain to match analysts’ estimates.  Huntington dropped 6.9 percent, the biggest decline in the
81-company Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index, to $4.88 on
the Nasdaq Stock Market at 4 p.m., after shares of the Columbus,
Ohio-based bank fell as much as 8 percent earlier today.  “The earnings quality may have been somewhat below market
expectations,” Terry McEvoy, an analyst for Oppenheimer & Co.
in  Portland ,  Maine , said in an interview. The one-time gain, a
lower  tax rate  and a narrower net interest margin are
contributing to the decline in the shares, said McEvoy, who
rates the stock “outperform.”  Huntington said a $15.5 million gain connected to the sale
of an auto-loan securitization helped push net income to $143.4
million, or 16 cents a share, from $101 million, or 10 cents, in
the same period a year earlier. Twenty-two analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg estimated on average 16 cents per share.  Net interest income fell to $406 million in the third
quarter from $410 million a year earlier. The net interest
margin, the difference between what a bank pays in deposits and
charges for loans, dropped to 3.34 percent from 3.40 percent in
the second quarter, more that what the company expected,
according to the statement.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Steinour said the lender
has “largely recovered” a $30 million loss from offering
unconditional free checking accounts by adding new customers.  Household Growth  “It has accelerated our household growth -- today we grow
every ten weeks, every twelve weeks, what we used to grow in our
best year ever,” Steinour said today in a telephone interview.
“There were a lot of questions about, were they walking the
plank, being naïve, silly, stupid -- things like that. And we’re
thrilled with our position.”  The lender is attempting to upend its biggest competitors,
the U.S. banking lobby and the campaign to roll back new Federal
Reserve rules and win customers with account features such as a
24-hour grace period for overdrafts as banks including  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  add fees or end free
checking to replace lost revenue.  Consumer checking account households expanded at an 11
percent annualized rate during the first three quarters, up from
7 percent and 3 percent in 2010 and 2009, respectively, the
company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  