-- 
Murdoch Investment Boinc Nears Accord With Record Labels, Music Week Says

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-10-20T01:06:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/murdoch-investment-boinc-nears-music-accord-music-week-reports.html
Beyond Oblivion Inc., a music
service 20 percent owned by  News Corp. (NWSA) , is near accords with
major record labels to offer songs on products ranging from PCs
to car stereos, the website Music Week reported.  Sony Music Entertainment and Warner Music Group have signed
agreements with the company, which calls its service Boinc, the
 website  reported. The company hopes to announce global deals
with EMI Group and  Universal Music Group  in the next two to
three weeks, founder Adam Kidron told Music Week.  Boinc, based in New York, plans to license the service for
products such as music players and car stereos, with
manufacturers paying the fees and passing on the cost to
consumers, according to the site. It would work with operating
software from Apple Inc., Microsoft Corp. and Google Inc.,
according to Beyond Oblivion’s website.  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. paid $11.2 million in two
transactions for its stake, according to company regulatory
filings. Other investors include News Corp. Director Emeritus
Stanley Shuman, who owns 14 percent and serves on the board of
Beyond Oblivion, according to News Corp. regulatory filings.  Music companies such as  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s EMI and  Vivendi
SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music are seeking ways to boost sales, backing
services like Boinc, ad-supported outlets including Pandora
Media Inc. and subscription services such as Spotify Ltd.  “To be successful, the record companies will need a whole
number of revenue pools,” Russ Crupnick, an analyst at Port
Washington, New York-based NPD Group Inc., said in an interview.
“They need solutions in addition to advertising and
subscriptions that deliver higher revenue.”  News Corp., owner of the Fox network and Twentieth Century
Fox film studio, fell 1.9 percent to $16.70 at the close in  New
York . The Class A shares have gained 15 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  