-- 
Investors in News Corp. Seek to Limit Murdoch’s Power

-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 
2011-10-20T17:24:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/murdoch-s-foes-press-for-changes-they-can-t-force-at-news-corp-meeting.html
News Corp. investors seeking to curb
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch’s authority
will use tomorrow’s annual meeting to press for reform, looking
to persuade a board they can’t force to act.  Christian Brothers Investment Services Inc. will introduce
a resolution to separate the chairman and CEO roles held by
Murdoch, 80, who has run the New York-based media company for
more than five decades. The  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , the California State Teachers’ Retirement
System and Institutional Shareholder Services all have taken
stances aimed at loosening Murdoch’s control.  At least five investor groups and two proxy advisory firms
have called on Murdoch and his two sons, Deputy Chief Operating Officer James and Lachlan, a former News Corp. executive, to
step down. The rare confluence of dissent is unlikely to compel
change, since Murdoch owns about 40 percent of the Class B
voting shares and an ally, Saudi Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal,
holds 7 percent. The goal is to convince the board that reform
would instill confidence on the part of investors.  “It will be difficult to get a majority on the issues,”
 Julie Tanner , director of socially responsible investing for New
York-based Christian Brothers, said in an interview. “If  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s directors were savvy, they would announce sweeping
changes and should disclose more about the internal
investigations into the hacking scandal.”  The situation may be similar to the situation at Walt
Disney Co. in 2004, said  Doug Creutz  and Jason Mueller, analysts
at Cowen & Co.  Michael Eisner  exited the chairman role after
shareholders withheld 43 percent of their votes from him and
later the CEO position.  Management Response  “A large enough ‘No’ vote by independent shareholders could
pressure the board to split the chairman and CEO roles and/or
create an explicit succession plan that does not contemplate one
of Rupert’s offspring in the CEO role,” the analysts wrote in a
research note today.  Reports of hacking at the now-closed News of the World
tabloid in  London  have raised questions about News Corp.’s
management and the board’s independence.  The company formed a management and standards committee to
aid outside inquiries. Police have arrested at least 16 people,
including  Andy Coulson , Prime Minister David Cameron’s former
communications chief and an ex-News of the World editor.  Watson Appearance  The company also said it is investigating other U.K.
titles. Testimony of  James Murdoch , who heads the News
International unit, on when he learned of the hacking was
contradicted by former employees, and he has been asked to
testify again in Parliament.  Tom Watson , the U.K. lawmaker who has led attacks against
News Corp.’s British newspapers over phone hacking, will try to
speak at the meeting in  Los Angeles . He recently purchased
shares in the company with the intention of addressing
investors.  “I want to make sure the shareholders are fully informed
about the things their company is doing in the U.K.,” Watson, a
member of the opposition Labour Party, said in an interview.
“For an organization that believes in freedom of speech, it
would be pretty extraordinary if they tried to stop me being
heard.”  ‘Lack of Stewardship’  Institutional Shareholder Services , or ISS, which advises
more than 1,700 investors on governance issues, is recommending
votes against 13 of the 15 directors, including the Murdochs,
citing a “lack of stewardship and failure of independence” by
the board.  Hermes Equity Ownership Services also seeks the ouster of
 Rupert Murdoch  and his sons. Two other advisory firms,  Glass
Lewis & Co.  and Egan-Jones Proxy Service, recommended James and
Lachlan be removed. Their concerns include a slow response to
phone-hacking and executive compensation.  ISS’s recommendations “are not in the best interest of the
company’s stockholders,” said  Teri Everett , a News Corp.
spokeswoman. She didn’t comment on other advisers’ efforts.  Shareholder fights against owner-dominated public companies
usually fail and investors may not fare much better with this
campaign.  News Corp.’s shares are split into two classes. The Class A
shares, which represent about 70 percent of the economic
interest, have no voting rights.  Little Clout  “With dual class shares of stock, there’s not much power
for shareholders and it’s unlikely the company is going to give
it up because they hold all the cards,” said  Charles Elson ,
director of the University of Delaware’s Center for Corporate
Governance. “Shareholders in that structure have very little
influence.”  News Corp. has spent about $1.64 billion buying back the
Class A shares, out of a $5 billion repurchase authorized by the
board on July 12.  The shares rose 1.1 percent to $16.89 at 1:22 p.m.  New York 
time. The stock had gained 15 percent this year before today.  An instance in which investors prevailed was the  New York
Times Co. (NYT) ’s decision in 2008 to seat representatives of outside
funds that had pressured the newspaper company to focus more on
the Internet and questioned that company’s dual-stock structure,
Elson said.  In many cases, the two share classes were created to
insulate media companies from investor pressure on news
coverage, Elson said.  ‘Bad System’  “It’s a bad system and I think we need to get beyond dual
structure for all companies,” Elson said.  In addition to News Corp., 26 other companies in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 feature a dual-class stock structure that
limits voting power, according to an ISS analysis. They include
Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , and
Sumner Redstone’s  CBS Corp. (CBS)  and  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B)  media companies.  News Corp. amended its bylaws in April to provide for a
majority vote to elect directors, and those who do not win a
majority are required to resign. The board’s nominating
committee, however, can reject the resignation, overriding the
vote.  While shareholders lack power, they could “make so much
noise that they embarrass Murdoch or maybe it starts to affect
him financially,” said  Jay Lorsch , a corporate governance
professor at Harvard Business School in Boston.  Power of Spotlight  The hacking scandal has led to the loss of revenue and
business deals, according to ISS. Closing the News of the World
will hurt profit at the company’s newspaper unit, the firm said.
The company also dropped its bid for the remaining shares of
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , costing News Corp. a $63
million breakup fee and the loss of potential future earnings,
the ISS said.  News Corp. in August also lost a $27 million no-bid
contract to build an education data-system tracking student
performance for New York due to the scandal, the advisory
company said.  Murdoch may face additional scrutiny over the Wall Street
Journal Europe, which boosted circulation by selling issues at
one euro penny a copy to third parties, according to documents
obtained by Bloomberg News.  “Shareholders have to wonder whether there could be
something else to come out in the future,” said Christian
Brothers’ Tanner.  Additional Scrutiny  Calstrs, which manages $155 billion for California
teachers, is withholding its votes for all News Corp. directors
because the board fails to meet its test of being two-thirds
independent, Anne Sheehan, director of corporate governance,
said in an interview.  Sheehan said she has expressed her concern directly to at
least one unnamed News Corp. director. Calstrs, which holds 6.1
million Class A shares and 35,200 Class B, will continue to
oppose dual-class voting structures, she said.  “The success of this effort is still unknown,” Sheehan
said. “If they are concerned about their reputation, both
individually as directors and corporate wide, and if the
‘opposition’ vote is quite high, they may consider some steps to
modify their governance and hopefully this policy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Green in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  