-- 
Turkish Central Bank Leaves Benchmark Interest Rate Unchanged

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-10-20T11:00:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/turkish-central-bank-leaves-benchmark-interest-rate-unchanged.html
Turkey’s central bank left its
benchmark  interest rate  at a historic low to maintain growth
amid the debt crisis in  Europe , even as the lira declines.  The central bank in Ankara kept its one-week repo lending
rate at 5.75 percent, according to an e-mailed statement today.
That matched the forecast of all 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The bank will release minutes of the meeting within
five working days.  The bank reduced the rate by half a percentage point on
Aug. 4, saying action was needed because of a likely slowdown
caused by debt problems in Europe, Turkey’s biggest export
market. A European Union summit on Oct. 23 may not provide “the
end point” to the sovereign debt crisis, German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said yesterday.  The central bank “really needs to get a clear read-out
from Europe,” Sengul Dagdeviren, chief economist at ING Bank AS
in Istanbul, said in a telephone interview before the decision
was announced. “Bank policy is indexed to developments in
Europe.”  The bank has used up about 10 percent of its foreign
currency reserves since July selling dollars to stem the lira’s
decline. It intervened directly in markets on Oct. 18 for the
first time since 2006, hours after selling $750 million in an
auction. Reserves were $85.1 billion on Oct. 7, according to
central bank data. That’s about the same as the country’s short-
term external debt, according to June figures from the Treasury.  Global Bias  Turkey ’s August rate cut was followed by countries
including Brazil and  Israel , which both cited expectations of a
slowing world economy.  “Global monetary policy is so biased towards easing - and
not only in advanced economies,”  Inan Demir , chief economist at
Finansbank AS in Istanbul, wrote in an e-mailed report.  The lira has slid more than 16 percent against the dollar
this year, the second-worst performance among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, after  South Africa ’s rand. It
fell to a record low of 1.9096 per dollar on Oct. 4. Turkey’s
current-account deficit, equal to about 10 percent of gross
domestic product, and concern over the spreading European debt
crisis have dented investor confidence.  The currency’s decline has made imported goods more
expensive, and higher natural-gas tariffs and taxes on cars,
phones, alcohol and tobacco announced this month will push
prices further up. Inflation was 6.2 percent in September and is
likely to “significantly” exceed this year’s 5.5 percent
target, the bank said on Oct. 4. It said the increase will prove
temporary and the 5 percent goal for 2012 can be reached.  Yields on benchmark two-year lira bonds have risen to more
than 8.8 percent, from about 8 percent at the start of
September, on expectations of higher inflation and a possible
rate increase.  Turkey’s economy is slowing after expanding an annual 8.8
percent in the second quarter. The government expects growth of
7.5 percent this year and 4 percent in 2012. The International
Monetary Fund’s forecast for 2012 is 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 