-- 
Turkey Increases Overnight Lending Rates, Drops Easing Bias to Help Lira

-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-10-20T14:59:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/turkish-central-bank-raises-overnight-lending-rate-to-12-5-.html
Turkey ’s central bank raised the
overnight lending rate and dropped a reference to reducing its
benchmark rate in future, boosting the lira.  The central bank in Ankara increased the overnight rate to
12.5 percent from 9 percent and kept its key one-week repo rate
at 5.75 percent, it said in an e-mailed statement today. That
matched the forecasts of all 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Governor Erdem Basci is battling to end the slump in the
lira that he helped initiate. Basci cut the benchmark rate by
half a point on Aug. 4, concerned that the European debt crisis
will undermine economic growth. The lira has fallen 6.6 percent
against the dollar since then, adding to a surge in inflation
from tax increases. The bank spent more than $1 billion
yesterday trying to arrest the currency’s fall.  “The bank is trying to make shorting the lira more
expensive by sharply increasing lending rates,”  Inan Demir ,
chief economist for Finansbank AS in Istanbul, said by e-mail.
“Interbank rates could settle significantly above the policy
rate, which should be supportive of the lira but negative for
bonds.”  Lira Gains  The lira rose 0.8 percent against the dollar at the 5:30
p.m. close in Istanbul. The bank will release minutes of its
interest-rate meeting within five working days.  The central bank today dropped wording from earlier
statements that it may need to ease monetary policy. It said
today it’s now ready to “take the necessary policy action to
ensure stability on domestic markets.”  “The bank has switched to a more hawkish stance,”  Haluk Burumcekci , chief economist at EFG Istanbul Securities, said in
an e-mail. It is “the least they could do. We continue to
believe the inflation outlook and the lira warrant a much
tighter stance.”  The bank has used up about 10 percent of its foreign
currency reserves since July selling dollars to stem the lira’s
decline. It intervened directly in markets on Oct. 18 for the
first time since 2006, hours after selling $750 million of
dollars in an auction.  Reserves stood at $85.1 billion on Oct. 7, according to
central bank data, equivalent to the country’s short-term
external debt as of June.  Global Bias  Brazil and  Israel  followed Turkey’s August interest rate
cut to help support their economies as global growth slowed.  Turkey’s current-account deficit, equal to about 10 percent
of gross domestic product, and the European debt crisis have
dented investor confidence. The lira has slid 17 percent against
the dollar this year, the second-worst performer among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, after  South
Africa ’s rand. The lira fell to a record low of 1.9096 per
dollar on Oct. 4.  The currency’s decline has boosted imported costs at the
same time that the government raised taxes on cars, phones,
alcohol and tobacco this month. Inflation, which was at 6.2
percent in September, is likely to “significantly” exceed this
year’s 5.5 percent target, the central bank said today. The bank
“will not tolerate” any adverse impact on the inflation
outlook, it said.  The  International Monetary Fund  welcomed the higher lending
rates “as a way to preserve the credibility of the authorities’
inflation targets,” fund spokesman Gerry Rice told reporters in
 Washington  today.  Yields on benchmark two-year lira bonds rose to 9.14
percent today, from about 8 percent at the start of September,
on expectations of higher inflation and rate increases.  Turkey’s economy is slowing after expanding 8.8 percent in
the second quarter from a year earlier. The government expects
growth of 7.5 percent this year and 4 percent in 2012. The
International Monetary Fund’s forecast for 2012 is 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Bentley in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  