-- 
Turkish Banks Slump Most in a Month as Easing Signal Dropped

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-10-20T14:48:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/turkish-banks-fall-most-in-two-weeks-as-easing-signal-is-dropped.html
Turkey’s banking index fell the most
in a month after the central bank raised the overnight lending
rate and dropped language that signaled it could loosen monetary
policy.  The index retreated 5.6 percent to 113,256.5 at the close
in Istanbul, the biggest decline since Sept. 22 and the lowest
level since Sept. 5.  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) , a state-run bank,
led the drop, slumping 7 percent to 11.35 liras.  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) ,
part-owned by Citigroup Inc., fell 5.5 percent to 6.48 liras.
 Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the biggest listed lender by market
value, slid 6 percent to 6.28 liras.  Turkish policy makers raised the overnight lending rate to
12.5 percent from 9 percent, while keeping the benchmark one-
week repo rate unchanged at a record-low 5.75 percent. The
central bank also dropped language that indicated it would
continue to use policy tools to ease monetary policy.  The increased overnight rate is “bad for bonds, and thus
bad for bank portfolios,” according to Ata Doganoglu, a trader
at Ekspres Invest in Istanbul. The missing language on rates
could indicate a rate hike in the future, which would also be
negative for lenders, he said.  The lifting of the rate doesn’t directly affect the
lenders’ borrowing costs, since they don’t typically use the
more expensive overnight borrowing rate, he said.  “Inflation has become the priority of the central bank, so
that is the key of this announcement,” Bali Ekin, head of
equity trading at Credit Europe Bank NV in Amsterdam, said in
response to e-mailed questions. “The emphasis has shifted from
weaker growth to higher inflation” as the central bank seeks to
support the currency rather than boost growth, he said.  The lira strengthened 0.8 percent to 1.8551 per dollar at
5:40 p.m. The currency has dropped 17 percent against the dollar
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  