-- 
USAID to Guarantee Serbia’s First Municipal-Bond Issue

-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-10-20T09:05:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/usaid-to-guarantee-serbia-s-first-municipal-bond-issue.html
The  U.S. Agency for International
Development  will guarantee part of 35 million euros ($48.27
million) in debt issued by Novi Sad,  Serbia ’s second-biggest
city, the first municipal bond issuance in the country.  USAID signed a bond-guarantee agreement with Novi Sad
officials today for a 6 million-euro ($8.27 million) tranche as
the northern city seeks funds for  road construction  and a
wastewater project, Michael Metzler, deputy director of the
USAID Economic Growth Office, said in a phone interview.  “It’s not something we usually do, but we’re providing the
backing for demonstration effect to facilitate the
breakthrough” of the first municipal bonds in the Balkan
country, Metzler said. In case of default, the agency will cover
50 percent of the 6 million-euro portion, he said.  The sale of 12-year bonds is being organized by the  local
unit  of  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  which last week found buyers for 15
million euros of the unsecured portion and is in talks for
another 13 million euros, Metzler said. The 6 million-euro
portion with the USAID backing will be offered last, he said.
The main targets are insurers and pension funds.  “This bond placement represents a significant step forward
for municipal finance in Serbia and the country’s capital
markets,” USAID said in an e-mailed statement.  The cities of Pancevo, east of Belgrade, and Uzice in
western Serbia are also expected to issue bonds, Metzler said.  “As other cities follow Novi Sad’s lead and begin to go to
the markets for financing, competition should increase, costs
should decrease, and capital investment projects,” will
accelerate, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  