-- 
Veolia, Suez Environnement to Be Hurt by Slowdown, Goldman Says

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-10-20T14:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/veolia-suez-environnement-to-be-hurt-by-slowdown-goldman-says.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , the world’s
biggest water company, and rival Suez Environnement will be hurt
by a European economic decline as factories make less waste that
needs treating, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  “A deterioration of the economic environment in  Europe  may
result in weaker business, in particular for Veolia’s and Suez
Environnement’s waste activities,” analyst Dario Carradori said
in a note today. “Both stocks have a high sensitivity to
changes in GDP forecasts.”  The bank lowered earnings forecasts and share price targets
for the utilities because of reduced profits from waste
collection and treatment. Suez Environnement shares are now
rated “neutral” by Goldman, downgraded from a “buy,” while
the bank kept a “neutral” call on Veolia.  Veolia and Suez Environnement struggled to turn around
earnings after the economic slowdown that followed the 2008
financial crisis. That decline led to factory closures and
prompted the companies to shut waste sites. Veolia earlier this
year unveiled a restructuring plan to curb its global reach and
sell assets in a bid to reverse losses.  Suez Environnement said in August it’s keeping targets for
2011 through 2013. This year it aims for growth in earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of at
least 10 percent at constant foreign exchange rates, and at
least 7 percent on average for 2012 and 2013.  Selling Assets  Goldman Sachs expects Ebitda growth of 4 percent to 5
percent in 2012 and 2013, lower than the company’s targets,
according to today’s note. Suez Environnement spokeswoman Helene
Enginger declined to comment.  Suez Environnement will report third-quarter earnings Oct.
26 while  Veolia Environnement  is scheduled for publication on
Nov. 19 and will hold an investor day Dec. 6.  Veolia Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Antoine Frerot
plans to halt operations in at least 37 countries and sell 1.3
billion euros ($1.8 billion) of assets this year to restore
profit.  The company, which lost half its value this year, posted a
first-half loss on writedowns on operations in  Italy ,  Morocco 
and the U.S. and said it uncovered fraud at a U.S. business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 