-- 
Vietnam Property Market Hurt by Lending Rates, CapitaLand Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-20T06:54:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/vietnam-property-market-hurt-by-lending-rates-capitaland-says.html
Vietnam ’s  property market  has
“slowed down” as higher  interest rates  made it difficult for
potential buyers to finance purchases, said  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) ,
Southeast Asia’s biggest property developer.  The nation’s inflation rate in September reached 22.42
percent, the highest among 17 Asian economies tracked by
Bloomberg. The central bank has increased its refinancing rate
to 15 percent from 9 percent at the beginning of the year, while
 Fitch Ratings  said in August lending costs for some businesses
in July were as high as 25 percent.  Potential buyers “cannot get bank financing,” Yip Hoong Mun, deputy chief executive officer of CapitaLand’s Vietnam unit,
said in an interview in Ho Chi Minh City after a presentation at
the Vietnam Investment Summit. “A lot of purchasers want to buy
but they may not be able to borrow money. So the whole market
has more or less slowed down.”  CapitaLand has four residential projects in  Ho Chi Minh
City  and two in Hanoi, said Yip. The Singapore-based company
said last year it planned to increase its business in Vietnam
from total assets of S$400 million to S$2 billion ($1.57 billion)
over three to five years.  Other obstacles include higher-than-anticipated project
financing costs, a slow development process, and currency
devaluations, Yip said. Measured at official exchange rates, the
Vietnamese dong has lost about 7 percent of its value this year.  “They do not have good control of fiscal and monetary
policy,” Yip said at the conference. “Inflation has the
highest impact. It is a persistent problem for Vietnam, even
though the general consensus is inflation will go down after
this year.”  The Vietnamese property market now has a “more realistic
pricing attitude” for potential projects, the U.K.-listed
 Vietnam Property Fund Ltd. (VPF)  said last week.  CapitaLand is still seeking investment opportunities in the
country because “a lot of landowners or local developers may
want to partner with foreign developers like us,” Yip said.  --Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City. Editors: Linus Chua,
Andreea Papuc  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  