-- 
Wal-Mart’s Massmart Purchase Faces South Africa Court Appeal

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-10-20T13:39:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/wal-mart-s-massmart-takeover-faces-south-africa-antitrust-court-challenge.html
South African government lawyers
urged the Competition Appeal Court to compel regulators to
review a decision allowing  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to buy control
of  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM) , saying they failed to adequately
consider the public interest.  The Competition Tribunal ruled on May 31 that the world’s
biggest retailer could proceed with the deal on condition no
jobs are cut for two years and the companies set up a 100
million-rand ($12.4 million) fund to assist local suppliers and
manufacturers. The government objected, saying the conditions
were inadequate to protect the economy and prevent a surge in
imports undermining manufacturing output.  “The question before court is whether the merger can or
cannot be justified on public-interest grounds,” Wim Trengove,
the government’s senior counsel, told the court today. “The
tribunal erred” by failing to place the onus on the companies
to prove they wouldn’t increase imports and destroy jobs.  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville,  Arkansas , paid 16.5 billion
rand in June for a 51 percent stake in Massmart,  South Africa ’s
biggest food and general-goods wholesaler. The U.S. company
outlined plans on June 26 to create 15,000 jobs in South Africa
within five years and allocate most of an expected 60 billion
rand in additional purchases of food or fast-moving  consumer
goods  to local suppliers in that period.  Ministers’ Request  In court papers filed on July 20, Economic Development
Minister  Ebrahim Patel , Trade and Industry Minister  Rob Davies 
and Forestry and Fisheries Minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson said
the transaction should be reconsidered because the tribunal’s
hearings were flawed.  The regulator failed to secure adequate information from
the retailers about their product sourcing or how it would
change, and allocated insufficient time to question witnesses,
Trengove said.  At an investor meeting last week, Doug McMillon, Wal-Mart’s
international chief executive officer, said his company couldn’t
commit to specific procurement targets requested by the
government.  “What we are happy to do is to invest and develop this
local supplier base,” McMillon said.  ‘No Serious Debate’  Allegations that Massmart would cause job losses by
importing more goods remain unproven, and there’s no evidence of
the companies having withheld relevant information from the
tribunal, Jeremy Gauntlett, senior counsel for Wal-Mart and
Massmart, told the court today.  “Mergers are an attribute of commercial activity, which
are not in themselves bad,” he said. “There was no serious
debate before the tribunal that one was looking at a significant
lowering of prices” as a result of Wal-Mart’s entry into South
Africa.  A three-member panel headed by Judge Dennis Davis is
hearing the case, which is scheduled to run until tomorrow and
reconvene on Oct. 24 if more time is needed. The court usually
takes several weeks to deliver its rulings, which can be
challenged in the  Supreme Court  of Appeal.  The South African Commercial, Catering and Allied Workers
Union has filed a separate appeal against the approval of the
takeover of Johannesburg-based Massmart on the grounds that the
tribunal failed to take adequate consideration of the public
interest. The review and appeal applications are being heard
simultaneously, with both opposed by Wal-Mart and Massmart.  Should the court decide against referring the decision back
to the tribunal, it may either uphold the approval of the
takeover or rule that it should have been rejected or subjected
to different conditions, Davis said.  About 50 labor union members staged a peaceful protest
against the takeover outside the courthouse today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  