-- 
Wall Street Has Worst Quarter Since Crisis in Banking, Trading

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-10-20T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/wall-street-has-worst-quarter-for-banking-trading-since-financial-crisis.html
The biggest Wall Street firms posted
their worst quarter in both trading and investment banking since
the depths of the financial crisis as they face questions about
the future of their business.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley posted
$13.5 billion in trading revenue minus accounting gains for the
third quarter, down 35 percent from a year earlier. Investment-
banking revenue plunged 41 percent from the second quarter to
$4.47 billion.  Bank of America posted a roughly 90 percent drop in fixed-
income trading revenue and Goldman Sachs had its lowest debt
underwriting quarter since 2003. Corporations put off capital
raises and investors sold riskier assets on concern that the
 U.S. economy  was slowing and  Europe ’s debt crisis would spread.  “The micro has caught up with the macro, and the strains
of the financial system have hit these companies,” Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners LLC in New York, said
yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track.” “The
question is, does that continue going forward?”  The five banks’ combined trading revenue so far this year,
excluding debt valuation adjustments, or DVA, is down 16 percent
from the same period last year. DVA are accounting gains taken
when the value of a firm’s own debt declines, and losses taken
when it rises.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 14 percent during
the period, the worst decline since the fourth quarter of 2008.
The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or VIX,
which measures the cost of buying insurance against drops in the
 S&P 500 , surged 160 percent to its highest quarterly reading
since the first three months of 2009.  Buying Derivatives  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
measures the price of buying derivatives to protect against a
default on the corporate debt of 125 borrowers, climbed the most
in the quarter since 2008.  “Whether it was a volatile and unpredictable market that
made new equity issuances very difficult to execute, or our
asset-management clients having much less conviction on
investment decisions, the broader environment served as a
significant headwind to clients moving forward with their
business objectives,” Goldman Sachs Chief Financial Officer
David Viniar said on a conference call this week.  Firms are also grappling with questions about the potential
impact of the Volcker rule, which seeks to ban proprietary
trading and limit hedge-fund and private-equity investments at
deposit-taking banks. Regulators are seeking feedback from banks
after releasing a draft of the proposal.  Flow Trading  Wall Street ’s fixed-income desks could suffer a 25 percent
decline in revenue under one proposal contained within the
Volcker rule draft that may target so-called flow trading, Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in a note
to investors earlier this month.  Banks shut down stand-alone proprietary trading desks in
anticipation of the rule, which has already affected trading.
Citigroup said its 73 percent year-over-year decline in
equities-trading revenue, excluding DVA, was driven by losses
from a prop-trading group it is closing.  Bank of America attributed part of its fixed-income revenue
drop to the winding down of its prop business, which contributed
$434 million in the first half and zero in the third quarter.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is “constantly reassessing” whether the
current environment represents a cyclical or secular change,
Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  said yesterday on a
conference call.  Generating Return  “Over the next several months, it will become clearer
which of the businesses that use a lot of balance sheet and take
on a lot of risk can be expected to generate the kind of return
that shareholders need,” Gorman said in a Bloomberg Television
interview.  The 10 largest global investment banks, which include the
five U.S. firms, are likely to trim their headcount of revenue
producers by 5 percent in this year’s second half, according to
an August report from industry consultant Coalition Ltd.  “If the market’s going to be and the economy’s going to be
such that the revenues are going to be lower, we’re going to
continue to take down the cost structure,” Bank of America CEO
Brian Moynihan said on a conference call this week. “One of the
easy things in this business versus other businesses is so much
of it is variable comp, which comes down easier. But ultimately
we have to reduce the heads and the infrastructure.”  Peabody and Shannon Stemm at Edward Jones & Co. expect
capital markets revenue to pick up from the current levels. The
impact of the economic environment may lessen once investors get
more clarity from European leaders over their response to the
region’s credit crisis, Stemm said.  “It’s our view it does eventually lift and we move back
into an environment whereby the investment-banking revenues
recover from these levels,” Stemm said. “It’s anybody’s guess
how soon that happens.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  