-- 
Wambach Is Sponsorship Winner After U.S. Women Lose in Soccer’s World Cup

-- B y   S u s a n   B e r f i e l d
-- 
2011-10-20T04:01:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/wambach-is-sponsorship-winner-after-u-s-women-lose-in-soccer-s-world-cup.html
As  Abby Wambach  tried to deal with a
nightmarish U.S. loss in the Women’s World Cup final, her agent
was watching what looked much more like a dream come true.  Dan Levy of the Wasserman Media Group said his e-mail
traffic had already tripled with requests for appearances by
Wambach hours after his client and her teammates lost to Japan
in a penalty-kick shootout for the championship in  Germany .  “We knew our playing resonated,” Wambach said. “But we
didn’t know how it would translate into dollars and cents.”  A nine-year veteran of professional soccer who helped get
her team in position to win the title, Wambach is one of the few
players on the U.S. team who have been able to turn success on
the field into sponsorship contracts, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Oct. 24 issue.  A win over Japan for the championship on July 18 might have
made those contracts even bigger, according to Bob Dorfman, a
sports marketer at Baker Street Advertising in  San Francisco .  “Losing probably cost Wambach a couple of million dollars’
worth of additional deals,” Dorfman said. “She does have the
potential to transcend the sport.”  Wambach and goalkeeper Hope Solo became the most
recognizable female U.S. soccer players since Mia Hamm in the
aftermath of the World Cup. They appeared on television, from
the early morning “Today” show to “Late Show with  David Letterman . Solo did a turn on “Dancing With the Stars.” Bank
of America Corp. signed them as spokeswomen for the Chicago
Marathon.  Yet most others on the team remain anonymous.  “It would have been amazing if this team won,” says Hamm,
who led the U.S. team to a  World Cup  championship in 1999. “So
many more players would have been included in the celebration.”  Gatorade Connection  In 2004, shortly before she retired from competitive
soccer, Hamm recommended Wambach to Pepsico Inc.’s Gatorade
brand, which had signed a sponsorship deal with Hamm in 1999 and
had been backing the U.S. team since 1998. Hamm accompanied
Wambach to a Gatorade event at golf’s  Masters Tournament ,
introducing her to the company’s executives.  “It was my tryout,” says Wambach, who passed the test and
remains a Gatorade endorser.  “We’ve gotten more involved with Abby over the years,”
says John Shea, Gatorade’s senior director of sports marketing.  Gatorade completed its first deal with Solo during the
World Cup. Shea declined to give financial details on any of the
contracts.  Wambach recently shot a commercial for magicJack Plus, a
broadband telephone device from a company founded by Dan Borislow, who owns the Women’s Professional Soccer club Wambach
plays for, the magicJack, in  Boca Raton ,  Florida .  “I’m looking forward to selling as many of them as I
can,” she says.  League Struggles  The women’s league is struggling. None of its six teams is
profitable. The average salary for a player is $25,000.  Wambach has had a contract with Nike Inc. since 2002, when
she was drafted out of college to play professionally. The terms
of the deal are private, though Wambach said that “the more
goals I score, the more accolades I accrue, the higher my
income. That’s good for me.”  In Germany, Wambach scored in the 122nd minute to tie the
quarterfinal against  Brazil , a game the U.S. won in a shootout.
In the championship match, her overtime goal put the U.S. ahead,
only to have  Japan  tie it and win on penalty kicks 3-1.  Wambach, who was interviewed at a Nike event in Beaverton,
 Oregon , wants to stay in the game until the next World Cup, but
it’s possible the London Olympics next year will be her last
chance to cash in.  “If you’re a female athlete today, you should hope the
generation after you will make more money than you can,” she
says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Berfield in  New York  at 
 sberfield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Romesh Ratnesar in New York at 
 rratnesar@bloomberg.net  