-- 
Wedbush Securities Sues Ex-Employees of Taking Data to Liquidnet Holdings

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-10-20T18:35:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/wedbush-securities-sues-ex-employees-liquidnet-over-company-information.html
Wedbush Securities Inc. sued two
former employees and trading platform Liquidnet Holdings Inc.,
accusing them of taking customer lists, documents and
disclosures from the firm.  The suit accuses New York-based Liquidnet, used by
institutional investors to buy and sell large blocks of shares,
and the ex-employees, Louis Kerner and Michael Silverstein, of
working together to take proprietary information from Wedbush in
order to start the same business at Liquidnet.  Liquidnet said on Oct. 17 that it hired Kerner to run a new
group focused on private companies, and that he would be joined
by Silverstein. Wedbush filed the lawsuit today in  New York 
State Supreme Court in Manhattan.  “Kerner, Silverstein and Liquidnet engaged, and continue
to engage, in the premeditated taking and misappropriation of
certain of Wedbush’s most valuable trade secret and confidential
and proprietary information,” Wedbush said in the complaint.  Liquidnet received the lawsuit and is reviewing it closely,
Melissa Kanter, a spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-
mail. She declined to comment further on the complaint.  Kerner began working for Los Angeles-based Wedbush in its
New York office in April 2010 and had been managing director of
its Private Shares Group since March, while Silverstein began
working in Wedbush’s Los Angeles office in February and had been
reporting to Kerner and others since April, Wedbush said in the
complaint.  Joining Competitor  Kerner called a Wedbush managing director on Oct. 16 and
told him that he and Silverstein would be joining a competitor
the next day, Wedbush said in the complaint. The managing
director, Cyrus Pirasteh, reminded Kerner of his confidentiality
obligations, and Kerner replied that the Private Shares Group’s
clients belonged to him and that Wedbush could speak to his
lawyers if the firm had “a problem with that,” according to
the complaint.  The complaint accuses the defendants of forwarding entire
customer data sets to personal e-mail accounts and changing
passwords to keep Wedbush out of its own databases. Kerner and
Silverstein are also accused of personally soliciting at least
two other Wedbush employees to leave the firm and not returning
company property including  laptop computers .  “Kerner, Silverstein and Liquidnet began blatantly
soliciting Wedbush’s customers and potential customers using the
trade secret customer data of Wedbush -- a fact Wedbush only
learned when its own affiliates and clients began forwarding
these solicitations to Wedbush,” the firm said in the
complaint.  Customer Data  Some of the clients identified in the customer data have
engaged in trading relationships exclusive to Wedbush, according
to the complaint, including one client holding about 9 million
Facebook Inc. shares who has been selling them through the firm
at a 2 percent to 3 percent commission, representing about $8
million in potential revenue.  Wedbush is seeking unspecified compensatory damages. The
firm also asked for injunctions preventing the defendants from
using, disclosing or transmitting any records, documents or
information related to its clients, business, marketing
strategies, technical information or operations.  It also seeks to stop the defendants from using customer
data to compete with Wedbush, soliciting similar services to
current or former Wedbush clients and retaining any customer
data.  The case is Wedbush Securities Inc. v. Liquidnet Inc.,
652875/2011, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 