-- 
Wells Fargo Sees ‘Huge Opportunity’ as BofA Retreats From Mortgage Lending

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-10-20T15:14:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/wells-fargo-sees-huge-opportunity-as-bofa-cuts-home-lending.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S.
home lender, may earn higher profits in the U.S. mortgage market
as rivals flee from angry homeowners, more powerful regulators
and billions of dollars in losses.  Wells Fargo originated $89 billion of mortgages in the
third quarter, more than the combined total of  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s $37 billion and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s $33 billion,
according to company statements. Bank of America plans to close
a mortgage unit that contributed more than 50 percent of its new
mortgages in the second quarter.  “When you think about being able to grow our mortgage
business today, it’s a huge opportunity for us,” Wells Fargo
Chief Financial Officer Timothy J. Sloan, 51, said in an Oct. 17
interview. “It’s more difficult for some of our competitors,
without being specific, than it is for us because they weren’t
as disciplined as we were. We weren’t perfect but we were
disciplined.”  Wells Fargo may pick up market share and generate bigger
profits as competitors cut operations or leave the market
altogether. The housing crisis forced more than 100 mortgage
lenders to close or seek buyers since the start of 2007. Now
mortgage-market reforms are raising the regulatory burden and
making it difficult for smaller firms to compete, said Glen Corso, managing director of the Community Mortgage Banking
Project, a coalition of smaller independent lenders.  Expanding Share  Wells Fargo Chief Executive Officer John G. Stumpf said
this week that his company now originates one of every four U.S.
mortgages, a position held by Bank of America as recently as
2007. The figure is even higher for refinancing, Stumpf said.  “Wells is finding that they can expand their share of the
market without necessarily tightening their margins,” Corso
said. “They can almost have their cake and eat it too.”  Bank of America’s 2008 purchase of subprime lender
Countrywide Financial Corp. helped trigger writedowns that
contributed to six quarterly losses since mid-2008 at the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank. The firm has reported
about $40 billion in expenses since 2007 tied to faulty
mortgages and foreclosures, the most among its peers, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In an effort to put the losses behind the company and
bolster a flagging share price, CEO  Brian T. Moynihan , 52, is
selling assets and exiting certain businesses. The lender said
this month that it would shutter its correspondent lending
division, which buys mortgages marketed by third-party lenders.
Cutting the unit, which reports to home loans chief  Barbara Desoer , contributed to a decline in third-quarter production,
the bank said Oct. 18.  Wells Fargo Benefits  The retreat already has boosted results at San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo, whose mortgage business is run by Mike Heid.
The company said the correspondent and wholesale channel
originated $45 billion of mortgages in the third-quarter, up 55
percent from $29 billion in the prior three-month period.  Correspondent originations accounted for $21.8 billion, or
54 percent, of Bank of America’s mortgage lending in the second
quarter, the lender said in August. It didn’t disclose third-
quarter data.  Other competitors also are retrenching. JPMorgan’s
correspondent business may be one-third of its size in a couple
of years, CEO  Jamie Dimon , 55, said on the company’s Oct. 13
conference call.  MetLife’s Exit  MetLife Inc., which already is selling banking assets to
avoid regulatory oversight, may seek a buyer for its mortgage
operation. Keeping the unit could divert “resources away from
MetLife’s primary focus on its global insurance and employee
benefits businesses,” the New York-based company said in an
Oct. 12 statement.  “The regulatory burden they needed to undertake to stay in
the mortgage market didn’t seem to make sense,” Corso said.
“While the mortgage market is a challenging place to do
business and the regulatory burdens are causing some people to
leave the market, it’s creating opportunities.”  Wells Fargo, in an effort to get out in front of regulatory
reforms, has sought a leading role. Last year, in a Nov. 16
letter to regulators, the bank argued against banking-industry
efforts to exempt most new mortgages from a Dodd-Frank Act
provision requiring loan originators to keep a stake in debt
they sell or securitize. Only mortgages with a down payment of
at least 30 percent should be exempt, Wells Fargo said.  “They have a certain view and it’s because they think it
helps them versus others,” said Thomas Lawler, a former  Fannie
Mae  economist who is president of Lawler Economic & Housing
Consulting, a real-estate research firm in Leesburg, Virginia.  Who’s on Top  Since at least 2006, Wells Fargo or Bank of America and
Countrywide have led the mortgage market. Wells Fargo originated
$1.16 trillion in home loans from 2006 through 2008 while Bank
of America or Countrywide originated $1.54 trillion, according
to Inside Mortgage Finance, an industry publication.  In the two full years that followed, Wells Fargo originated
$819.7 billion while Bank of America issued $697.8 billion.  With the decline in the size of the market, Bank of America
doesn’t need the large-scale origination platform it acquired
from Countrywide, CFO  Bruce Thompson  said on an Oct. 18
conference call.  Mortgage Servicing  Wells Fargo also is overtaking Bank of America in mortgage
servicing, the business of managing bills, collections and
foreclosures. Those tasks became more costly after defaults and
evictions rose to record levels, spurring accusations from
homeowners and attorneys general that some servicers relied on
legal shortcuts and fraudulent documents to speed the process.  On top of that, new international regulations require
lenders to hold more capital against mortgage-servicing rights
to cushion the risks. That’s spurring Bank of America, which has
promised to reach the new targets on time, to sell rights on
150,000 loans to ease the demand for capital, and the company
said more sales are likely.  “A lot has changed in the mortgage business really
starting in 2008,” Stumpf, 58, said during Wells Fargo’s
earnings conference call this week. Some of the excesses that
prevailed during the housing bubble before 2008 have been
eliminated, and “low-doc and liar-loans and stated income is
all history.” Liar loans is industry slang for mortgages made
to borrowers who inflated their incomes on applications that
weren’t verified by lenders.  Competitors Won’t Leave  The lack of competitors may mean Wells Fargo can charge
more for mortgages since consumers won’t be able to shop around,
Lawler said. It can then earn larger profits when it sells those
mortgages to Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , the two biggest
suppliers of financing for home loans, he said.  “When you look at where some large lenders are posting
their rates versus the secondary-market yields at which they can
sell the mortgage to Fannie and Freddie, there is an awful lot
of profit embedded there,” Lawlor said. “The posted rates seem
to have a massively higher profit margin for originating the
loan than what used to be the case.”  Wells Fargo reported $803 million in net gains on mortgage
loan originations and sales, up from $742 million in the second
quarter, and down 60 percent from last year’s third quarter when
the company reported $1.98 billion on $101 billion in
originations.  Still, Wells Fargo won’t have the market to itself. The
average rate on a typical 30-year mortgage fell to a record 3.94
percent earlier this month, according to Freddie Mac. That’s
driving demand for mortgages and convincing other firms that
it’s worth staying in the market.  “It would be a mistake to say, ‘Okay, we’re going to get
out of it because of legacy problems,’” JPMorgan’s Dimon said.
“Believe me, there’s the temptation. It’s still the most
important financial product for the majority of Americans and it
will be for the rest of our lives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 