-- 
Wireless Group Aims to Block San Francisco Radiation Warning

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-10-20T17:58:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/wireless-group-seeks-to-block-san-francisco-phone-radiation-warning-law.html
A group representing  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  asked a federal judge to block
enforcement of a San Francisco law requiring wireless phone
retailers to post what it called “alarmist” warnings about
radiation from mobile devices.  The first-of-their-kind warnings, which say radio emissions
are a possible carcinogen, may discourage consumers from buying
and using mobile phones, CTIA-The Wireless Association, a
Washington-based organization representing wireless carriers and
device makers, said at a hearing today. City officials say the
rule helps keep residents informed about possible health effects
from mobile phone radiation.  “How many mothers are going to walk into a retail store
and say, I’m not going buy a phone for my 13-year-old because
the city has given me this warning,” Andrew McBride, a CTIA
attorney, said at a hearing in federal court in  San Francisco .
“We feel these materials are alarmist, they contain false
statements and will harm our business.”  The group is seeking a court order halting enforcement of
the rule pending the outcome of its lawsuit challenging the
ordinance. The city agreed at the hearing to delay enforcement
until U.S. District Judge William Alsup rules on the group’s
request, which Alsup said could happen within two weeks. The law
was scheduled to take effect Oct. 25.  Today’s hearing revives debate among lawmakers, researchers
and wireless companies about whether frequent mobile phone use
can lead to cancer or other illnesses. Lawmakers in  Washington 
said more research was needed after some studies suggested a
link between wireless phone radiation and cancer, while the
industry’s trade association said scientific evidence has
overwhelmingly indicated that mobile phones don’t pose a health
risk.  ‘Right to Know’  The nation’s first mobile phone “Right to Know
Ordinance,” approved by San Francisco city supervisors last
year, requires retailers to use posters, factsheets and display
stickers saying emission of radio frequency energy by mobile
phones is absorbed by the head and body, such energy has been
classified by the  World Health Organization  as a possible
carcinogen and consumers should reduce their exposure, according
to court filings.  The ordinance violates the U.S. Constitution’s First
Amendment right to free speech because it forces retailers to
disseminate the city’s opinion, CTIA said. It’s also outweighed
by federal radio-wave exposure standards that ensure all mobile
phones sold in the U.S. are safe for consumer use, the group
said in court documents.  Biological Damage  Radio waves from wireless phones don’t have enough energy
to cause the kind of biological damage that radiation from X-
rays can cause, the group said. The Federal Communications
Commission said there is currently no scientific evidence
establishing a link between wireless device use and cancer or
other illnesses.  “What do you say about” that? Alsup asked lawyers for
the city. “The best thing the World Health Organization can say
is that it’s a possible. Anything is possible. Let’s put out a
brochure about UFOs.”  The comparison “belittles” the work of researchers that
have studied the possible health effects of mobile phone
emissions for decades, said Vince Chhabria, deputy city
attorney.  The information that retailers are required to disseminate
is accurate and doesn’t violate free speech rights, Chhabria
said.  ‘Editorial Content’  “This is not a situation where the city is requiring
somebody to alter their editorial content,” he told Alsup.
“It’s requiring a company to provide information about a
product in connection with the sale of the product.”  CTIA takes issue with 11-inch by 17-inch posters created by
the city’s Department of Environment that show mobile phones
emitting bright red, orange and yellow rings that penetrate the
head and midsection the body and suggesting consumers keep
phones away from the body. Retailers that don’t display the
posters can be fined as much as $100 for the first violation.  Alsup questioned the suggestion on the factsheet that
mobile phone users wear the devices on belt clips to reduce
exposure.  “You are saying an eighth of an inch makes a difference?”
Alsup said. “I don’t understand the science behind that
suggestion.”  User Manuals  Chhabria said manufacturers’ own user manuals make clear
that small distances make a difference with long-term health
effects.  “The statement about keeping phones away from your body is
not inaccurate, it’s not misleading,” said Chhabria.  Words used on the posters, such as “precautions” and
“away from the body,” are the same terms used by manufacturers
in their user manuals, he said in court filings. CTIA wants that
information to remain in the fine print, and not be called out
in posters buyers might see when perusing the displays at the
local Verizon Wireless store, according to the filings.  “In this age of cell phone ubiquity, it strains credulity
to speculate (as CTIA does) that the materials would cause
consumers to forego cell phones altogether,” Chhabria said in
the filing. “After all, the materials inform people how to
mitigate possible risks, so why, armed with these tips, would
people want to forgo the phones?”  The case is CTIA v. San Francisco, 3:10-cv-03224, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  