-- 
Two Iranians Indicted by U.S. for Murder Plot

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-10-21T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/two-iranians-indicted-by-u-s-for-murder-plot.html
The U.S. indicted two Iranian men on
charges they attempted to use a weapon of mass destruction to
assassinate  Saudi Arabia ’s ambassador in  Washington .  Manssor Arbabsiar, 56, an Iranian-American car salesman
living in  Texas , and Gholam Shakuri, who the U.S. said was an
Iran-based member of that country’s “Qods Force,” attempted to
recruit a man posing as a member of a violent Mexican drug
cartel as their assassin, according to a five-count indictment
filed yesterday in U.S. District Court in  Manhattan .  The recruited assassin was secretly working for the U.S.
Drug Enforcement Agency, prosecutors said when charges were
announced Oct. 11. Others from the Qods Force in Iran were also
involved and helped bankroll the plot, which was to have cost
$1.5 million, according to a criminal complaint filed at the
same time.  Both are accused by the federal grand jury of conspiring to
commit a terrorist act that would “kill and maim persons within
the  United States  and create a substantial risk of serious
bodily injury to others by destroying and damaging structures,
conveyances and other real and personal property.”  Arbabsiar could be sentenced to life in prison if convicted
of all charges against him, prosecutors said.  Arraignment  Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said yesterday that
Arbabsiar is scheduled to be arraigned before U.S. District
Judge  John Keenan  in  New York  on Oct. 24.  Sabrina Shroff, a lawyer for Arbabsiar, didn’t immediately
respond to a voice-mail message seeking comment on the
indictment. She has stated previously that her client intends to
plead not guilty to the charges.  Shakuri is at large, the U.S. said. The U.S. State
Department has described the Qods Force as an arm of the Iranian
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps that conducts “covert
operations abroad” and has sponsored attacks against U.S.
coalition forces in  Iraq .  The indictment mirrors the criminal complaint, which was
unveiled by Attorney General Eric Holder. The U.S. said Iran
sponsored the plot to use a weapon of mass destruction, in this
case C-4 plastic explosives, to murder Ambassador Adel Al-Jubeir
and a second scheme to attack Saudi installations in the U.S.  ‘Foreign Government Facilities’  Targets included “foreign government facilities associated
with Saudi Arabia and with another country,” the U.S. said in
the original complaint.  The plotters also targeted  Israel ’s embassy in Washington,
as well as the embassies of Israel and Saudi Arabia in
Argentina, according to a federal law enforcement official
familiar with the matter.  The alleged plot was “directed and approved by elements of
the Iranian government,” Holder said last week. “High-up
officials in those agencies, which is an integral part of the
Iranian government, were responsible.”  Iran  said it “categorically” rejected the claim, which it
described as an “evil plot.”  The case is  U.S. v. Arbabsiar, 11-cr-892, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  