-- 
Worst Thai Floods in 50 Years Hit Apple, Toyota Supply Chain

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-10-21T05:59:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/worst-thai-floods-in-50-years-hit-apple-toyota-supply-chains.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
are facing the worst supply disruptions since the March
earthquake that crippled Japan, leading investors to scramble
assessing the financial toll of the floods in  Thailand .  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said this week
Thailand’s worst floods in half a century set back supply of
components used in Mac computers, while Toyota suspended
production of its Camry and Prius vehicles in the kingdom.
 Western Digital Corp. (WDC) , the world’s largest maker of hard-disk
drives, warned it will post a loss this quarter and production
won’t return to normal for months.  The floods have claimed more than 300 lives since July and
shuttered more than 14,000 businesses in a country that makes
about a quarter of the world’s hard-disk drives and serves as
the Southeast Asian production hub for Japanese carmakers. While
the government estimates damages of as much as 120 billion baht
($3.9 billion), disruptions to the global supply chain may be
underestimated, according to  BGC Partners Inc. (BGCP)   “The damage could be far, far bigger,” said Amir Anvarzadeh, Singapore-based manager for Asian equity sales at
broker BGC. “I would be going after the supply chain and buy as
many hard drives as I can.”  The floods have spread across 61 of the country’s 77
provinces since late July and threaten to swamp parts of
Bangkok. Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra today warned all
residents in the capital to move their belongings to higher
floors as waters approached.  Hard-Disks, Autos  Thailand is the world’s largest producer of hard-disk
drives, the biggest exporter of rice and rubber and the second-
largest supplier of sugar, according to government data.  The automotive industry is among the hardest hit and the
disruptions will ripple worldwide in the short term, according
to  Frost & Sullivan . Most of the cars made in Thailand last year
were exported to markets from  Australia  to Europe and Mexico,
according to the researcher.  Japanese carmakers -- including Toyota, Honda Motor Co. and
Nissan Motor Co. -- are losing 6,000 units of production daily
after halting production since early this month in their
Southeast Asian manufacturing hub, the Japan Automobile
Manufacturers Association said yesterday. The lost production
may cost the top three more than $500 million a month, according
to estimates at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “It’s difficult to say when production in Thailand will
return to normal,” Toshiyuki Shiga, chairman of the automakers
group, said at a briefing in  Tokyo  yesterday.  GM, Ford  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Ford Motor Co. also use Thailand as
a production hub. Ford, which assembles the Fiesta in Thailand,
is halting passenger-car production from Oct. 19 to 22, though
the company is working with suppliers to resume output Oct. 25,
Bangkok-based spokesman Neal McCarthy said. GM hasn’t been
affected, spokesman Jonathan Rose said.  Honda, which halted production at its Ayutthaya province
plant Oct. 5, may have the most at stake as the Tokyo-based
carmaker counts Thailand as its second-biggest production base
in Asia outside of Japan. In 2010, it produced about 170,000
units in the country, including the Accord and Civic. It has 40
suppliers with factories nearby producing body parts and
components for engines and suspension and braking systems, Frost
& Sullivan said in a report.  At Aisin Seiki Co.’s aluminum die-cast factory in central
Thailand, water reached as high as 1.6 meters on Oct. 18,
prompting the company to evacuate the plant’s 1,500 workers,
spokesman Masayuki Toyama said. The Toyota affiliate is still
assessing the situation, he said.  Sony Delay  Aon Benfield Group Ltd., the world’s biggest reinsurance
broker, said more time is needed to estimate the financial toll.  Flooding has also disrupted electronics makers.  Nikon
Corp. (7731) , the world’s second-largest maker of cameras with
interchangeable lenses, formed a task force at the Tokyo
headquarters last week dedicated to Thailand, including the
impact on earnings, spokeswoman Sayaka Suzuki said.  Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s largest exporter of consumer
electronics, yesterday said it’s delaying the release of some
cameras and headphones because Thai disruptions. The company is
considering securing an alternative production base for cameras
after flooding partially damaged a plant that makes almost all
of its high-end cameras -- including the Alpha and NEX models --
in Ayutthaya Oct. 14, spokeswoman Satsuki Shinnaka said. Sony
hasn’t determined when production will resume, she said.  Canon, Toshiba  At  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s largest maker of cameras, two
factories in Ayutthaya have stopped. The company is considering
relocating Inkjet printer production as far as Vietnam,
spokesman Gota Fumoto said.  Five  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  plants have stopped, disrupting
production of electronic and metal components, parts for car
brakes and compressors for refrigerators, spokesman Yuichi
Izumisawa said.  Western Digital  said this week it shut two factories in
Thailand and it may take several quarters for the Irvine,
California-based company to resume normal production.  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , Japan’s largest maker of memory chips,
halted production at nine factories that make products including
hard-disk drives, solid state drives, chips, and household
electronics, spokeswoman Mari Mikami said.  “We are faced with flooding, probably the worst even in my
lifetime,”  Thai Airways International Pcl (THAI)  President Piyasvasti Amranand said yesterday at a conference in  Singapore , adding
that operations to Bangkok and Chiangmai have been spared from
disruption. “We are having some impact on our operations but
hopefully it will not last long.”  As the ripples of disruptions spread, companies may begin
hoarding components as they did following the March earthquake
in  Japan , according to BGC’s Anvarzadeh.  “Say I’m HP or I’m Dell, or whoever, I’ll be more
proactive in my procurement programs, particularly in areas
where I think bottle necks are going to exist, say three months
ahead,” he said. “That’s exactly what happened in April, May,
June. I can see that happening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  