-- 
My 5-Point Plan Makes 9-9-9 Look Complicated: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-10-20T23:00:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/my-5-point-plan-makes-9-9-9-look-complicated-caroline-baum.html
President  Barack Obama  has a jobs
plan, in case anyone has been off the planet for the past month.
House  Republicans  now have a jobs plan. Each of the presidential
candidates has some kind of employment blueprint.  Members of Congress have a bipartisan jobs plan: to keep
their seats. Even Washington lobbyists have one, which is to
ensure that the grotesque, 72,536-page  tax code  doesn’t
sacrifice a single line of print. After all, without it they
might have to return to the dreary practice of law.  Everyone, it seems, has a jobs plan. So why not your humble
correspondent? I’ve had plenty  to say  about Obama’s plan, so
it’s only appropriate to offer some concrete ideas of my own.  1. What’s in a Name?  Plenty. By calling it a jobs plan, the president and
Congress re-enforce the notion that they hold the closely
guarded secret of  job creation .  Most reasonable people understand that the president
doesn’t create jobs, unless he’s in the market for a White House
chef, a dog walker for Bo or a horticulturalist for the  Rose
Garden . And yet, the name implies just that.  Employment is the outcome of economic growth. Focus on
creating an environment for the economy to flourish, and the
jobs will come. That’s why I’m calling my initiative the Empower
the Economy Plan of 2011.  2. The Long and the Short of It  Every time the economy stumbles, the call goes out for the
federal government to enact a fiscal stimulus that is  timely,
targeted and temporary . The focus is short-term.  With a few exceptions, including benefits for the truly
needy, those three words should be eliminated from the
vocabulary. We have little to show for all the T-cubed stimulus
administered to the economy since 2008. Three years have
elapsed, the long term has arrived, yet Obama is still pushing
short-run measures.  Politicians -- Republicans and Democrats alike -- should
stop picking and choosing among tax breaks and who should get
them. One-time small-business tax credits for hiring new
workers; a tax holiday allowing businesses to repatriate
overseas profits; temporary tax breaks for investing in clean
energy or whatever the government happens to be pushing: If you
get the long-term fiscal compass right, you can leave short-term
cyclical management to the  Federal Reserve , which has the more
potent tool in its printing press.  Both parties agree that the 35 percent  corporate tax rate 
makes the U.S. uncompetitive. Fine. Lower it, get rid of it, do
something that has a lifespan of more than one year.  Someone once said, the best short-term policy is good long-
term policy. It’s time lawmakers followed that advice.  3.  Kill the Code  As far as I can tell, the only people who like the current
tax code are members of Congress and large corporations with
dedicated  lobbyists  looking after their interests. If the Occupy
Wall Street protesters in Zuccotti Park are looking for a
unifying theme, they might try “kill the code.” (The
regressive  payroll tax  does not appear to be on their list of
gripes.)  When the code goes, so will the loopholes, which cost the
Treasury an estimated $1.1 trillion a year. That’s something  the
99 percent  can get behind -- and probably some of the 1 percent,
too, on philosophical grounds.  Americans spend about 6.1 billion hours a year complying
with filing requirements of the Internal Revenue Service Code,
according to the IRS’s  Taxpayer Advocacy Service .  “If tax compliance were an industry, it would be one of
the largest in the  United States ,” requiring 3 million full-
time workers, the advocacy service said in its 2010  annual
report  to Congress. The estimated cost of complying with
individual and corporate tax requirements in 2008 was $163
billion, 11 percent of total tax receipts, according to TAS;
some private estimates are higher.  And what does all this time and money produce? Nada.  If the U.S. abolished all  federal income  and payroll taxes
and adopted a national retail  sales tax , such as the one
advocated by Americans for Fair Taxation (see  www.FairTax.org 
for details), April 15 would be just another calendar day.
Perhaps it would be declared a national holiday. Our time and
money could, and would, be better spent elsewhere.  4.  Fair or Flat, Not Both  Republican presidential hopeful  Herman Cain  is making waves
with his 9-9-9 plan, calling for a 9 percent income tax,
corporate tax and sales tax.  Cain used to be an advocate of the FairTax and “knows his
9-9-9 policy is a direct violation of FairTax policy,” said  Tom
Wright , former executive director of Americans for Fair
Taxation. “The FairTax organization would fold its tent and go
home before it sees a tax bill that leaves the income tax in
place and adds the FairTax to the current tool of tyranny.”
(Cain’s campaign organization did not return numerous phone
calls and e-mails asking for comment.)  Once Congress gets its hands on an additional revenue
stream via a national sales tax, today’s 9-9-9 could be
tomorrow’s 18-18-18. That’s why flat + fair = dangerous.  5. Death by Natural Causes  People of all political persuasions detest money in
politics, yet the  Supreme Court  has ruled that corporate
campaign spending is a form of free speech protected under the
First Amendment.  What if there was another way to get money out of politics?
Call it death by natural causes.  When you consider that 55 percent of all lobbying is
related to the  tax code , kill the code and you starve the beast.  The other 45 percent, lobbying presumably for government
subsidies or other preferential treatment, would have to be
public. Meetings between members of Congress and donors,
businesses or any outside group would be open to the public,
televised on C-SPAN or streamed live on the lawmaker’s or
committee’s website.  After all, lawmakers are supposed to represent their
constituents: lobbyists’ requests should be part of the budget.
“Convince your senator to write a check,” Wright said.  And convince us in the process. Lawmakers are supposed to
represent their constituents: Our business is their business,
and their business should be conducted in sunlight.  We want to know in real time how the person we elected is
spending our tax dollars. Transparency should force those
charged with dispensing  tax revenue  to think twice, which is
what those of us dispensing votes will be doing.  My Empower the Economy Plan has not undergone independent
analysis or scoring by the  Congressional Budget Office . I don’t
presume to know how many percentage points it would add to the
growth of gross domestic product or how many jobs it would
create.  What I do know is that a reorientation toward long-term
thinking and the adoption of  tax policy  that stresses
uniformity, eliminates loopholes and permanently gets Congress
out of the tax-favor business, is worth all the short-term
stimulus  Washington  can come up with.  All I ask is that you pass this bill now.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 