-- 
Kinsley: Iron-Clad Demands for Occupy Wall Street

-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 
2011-10-20T23:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/my-iron-clad-demands-for-occupy-wall-street-commentary-by-michael-kinsley.html
So I sat down to write up some
demands for  Occupy Wall Street , Occupy Washington and the
related groups that have sprung up to terrify the political and
financial establishments.  Not everyone thinks demands are a good idea. Could this
disparate collection of malcontents actually agree on a
platform? Would the attempt destroy the almost magical unity the
protesters have achieved? Might a list of demands -- or, as they
were called in the 1960s, “nonnegotiable demands” -- turn out to
be embarrassingly anti-capitalist, offering grist to the Glenn Becks of this world and turning off many potential recruits? Or
might it be the opposite: so banal and unambitious that the most
devoted followers lose interest?  My list is not very romantic; it’s all about taxes. It has
nothing to offer those who would like to see a banker or two
guillotined. In that sense, it doesn’t do justice to the Occupy
movement, which has inspired excitement even among many who
haven’t attended a rally. On the other hand, working on my list,
I ran into the same problem as when I tried to distill the goals
of the Tea Party movement. What these people want can’t be
supplied by government or  Wall Street . They need the tooth
fairy.  To take the obvious example, we can spend hundreds of
billions of dollars on another  stimulus  or jobs program. But we
do have to pay the money back. It’s not good enough to say that
now is not the time to worry about that. Now may not be the time
to actually start paying down the debt, but now is certainly the
time to commit ourselves to doing so, and that has to be part of
any well-conceived demand. There are no free lunches.  My Four Demands  Conservatives who believe that raising taxes is futile and
self-defeating may skip the rest of this sermon. There probably
aren’t many of them among the Occupy protesters, anyway.
Liberals who believe we can run up deficits indefinitely with no
harm done may also stop reading.  Anyway (drumroll, please), here are my four demands.  First, a really humongous jobs bill. Big enough to shut up
even  Paul Krugman .  It could take the form of an infrastructure construction
program like the WPA during the Great Depression. But if it were
up to me, all the money would go to a reduction in the FICA
Social Security tax. FICA is a direct tax -- now about 15
percent -- on every job in the country, with payment split
between workers and employers. Reducing it would increase the
demand for labor. It applies only to income from working, not
from investments. Very low income people -- who don’t even make
enough to pay the regular income tax -- must still pay FICA from
dollar one. And FICA doesn’t apply to incomes over $106,800 in
2011. A cut in the FICA tax would reverse that effect,
benefiting only working income, starting at dollar one and
stopping at $106,800. It could begin very quickly, unlike a
public works construction project, and we could be sure that
every penny was going to jobs.  President  Barack Obama ’s jobs bill includes incentives for
new jobs, but saving an old job is just as good as creating a
new one. In this economy, it’s the rare job that isn’t at some
risk of disappearing. A FICA tax cut treats all jobs equally,
and avoids arguments.  If you prefer, a big infrastructure program would be OK,
too. Orthodox Keynesianism says that dollar-for-dollar,
 government spending  provides more stimulus than returning the
money to people in a tax cut. That’s because government spending
is by definition all spent, whereas private citizens might
unsportingly insist on putting their extra money in the bank.
But Keynes never met this  Republican Congress . Any public works
program will generate tiresome arguments and accusations of
waste, delay, corruption and so on. Worse, some of those
accusations will be true. But how could Republicans object to a
huge  tax cut ?  Next Up, Investments  Second, abolish  capital gains . (That’s shortened for easy
use on a placard. I mean: Abolish the special tax break for
capital gains. Dividends, too, for that matter.)  While profits on investments are currently taxed at a
maximum of 15 percent, the tax on wages is a minimum of 15
percent (including Social Security). That’s why  Warren Buffett 
pays less of his earnings in taxes than his secretary. It’s why
hedge fund managers, whose income takes the form of capital
gains, enjoy a break.  Defenders of special treatment for capital gains justify it
by arguing that income from small businesses and other
corporations is taxed twice: first at the corporate level, then
again when an individual shareholder sells the stock or gets a
dividend. But no one is required to do business as a
corporation. Business owners can always choose not to
incorporate and to pay ordinary income taxes on their respective
shares of the profits. If they choose not to, it’s probably
because there is a tax advantage to incorporation, not a
disadvantage.  Third, end the Bush tax cuts -- for everyone.  In 2001,  George W. Bush  devilishly put through a large tax
cut that would expire shortly after he left office. Obama would
like to make the tax cut permanent for couples with incomes of
less than $250,000, but not for those making more. This would,
in essence, be the tax increase on the affluent that Obama
wants. Republicans would make the cuts permanent for everybody.
This is backward: The Bush tax cuts should be allowed to expire
for everybody, rich and middle class. This would return tax
rates to the level of the Clinton years.  Fourth, expand the estate tax. That same Bush 2001 tax cut
included a gradual elimination of what Republicans brilliantly
repositioned as the “death tax.”  But if we must generate more
revenue, which we must, why not get a bit of it from people who
are in no condition to feel the pain?  For now, estates worth more than $5 million are taxed. Any
expanded estate tax will undoubtedly have generous exemptions so
that people can help their children. And anyone who doesn’t want
the government to get any of his or her money can bequeath it
instead to one of thousands of tax-deductible organizations, and
pay no taxes on the amount donated. Anyone who can’t find some
tax-deductible charitable cause that suits his or her prejudices
is a nasty old coot.  (Michael Kinsley is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 