-- 
Yahoo Has More Options Than Sale of Company, Co-Founder Jerry Yang Says

-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-10-20T04:10:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/yahoo-not-necessarily-for-sale-yang.html
Yahoo! Inc., the U.S. Web portal
exploring strategic options after firing Chief Executive Officer
 Carol Bartz  last month, isn’t necessarily up for sale, co-
founder  Jerry Yang  said.  “The intent going in is not to put ourselves up for
sale,” Yang said at the All Things Digital Asia conference in
Hong Kong today. “The intent is to look at all options. There’s
plenty of options for the board, and plenty of options for our
shareholders to realize value.”  The comments come as Jack Ma, chief executive officer of
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.,  China ’s biggest e-commerce company,
reiterated today he is “interested” in buying Yahoo and is
awaiting a decision by the Sunnyvale, California-based company.
Yahoo ousted Bartz after the Web portal failed to keep pace with
growth at  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc.  Since then “multiple parties” have expressed interest in
the company, according to a memo last month by Yang. When Yang
was CEO in 2008, Yahoo spurned a $47.5 billion offer by
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Yahoo now has a market value of $20 billion.  The U.S. Internet company has “plenty of options” and its
board is “excited” about the ongoing review, Yang said today.  “We’re waiting for Yahoo’s board to tell us what they want
to do,” Jack Ma said at the same venue within hours of Yang’s
speech. “We’re waiting for answers. If we don’t do it soon,
it’s not good for all of us.”  Crowded Field  The intentions of Yahoo, rather than financing, present the
biggest problem for Alibaba’s plans to acquire the U.S. company,
Ma said.  Alibaba is working with private-equity firms on Yahoo, Ma
said without elaborating.  Yahoo has drawn an increasingly crowded field of potential
bidders for the company. KKR & Co. and Blackstone Group LP are
among the private-equity firms considering possible bids for
Yahoo, according to people with knowledge of the matter.  In addition, Alibaba Group, whose biggest shareholder is
Yahoo, has discussed a plan with  Silver Lake  and  Russia ’s
Digital Sky Technologies to make a joint bid, people familiar
with the matter have said. Another group that is interested in a
possible offer includes Providence Equity Partners Inc. and
former News Corp. executive  Peter Chernin , people said.  Silver Lake is working with Canada Pension Plan Investment
Board and Microsoft to put together a proposal to buy Yahoo, the
Wall Street Journal reported on its website today, citing people
familiar with the matter it didn’t identify.  Alibaba Collaboration  Linda Sims, spokeswoman for Canada Pension in Ontario, and
Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Yahoo, didn’t respond to voice
messages left after hours seeking comment on the report.  Yahoo’s collaboration with Alibaba is continuing and that
remains unaffected by the strategic review, Yahoo Asia Managing
Director Rose Tsou said at the same event in  Hong Kong .  In 2005, Alibaba Group sold a stake of about 40 percent to
Yahoo for $1 billion and ownership of Yahoo’s Chinese unit. The
Hangzhou-based company now operates e-commerce businesses
including Alibaba.com and Taobao.com, in addition to Yahoo’s
local website.  Alibaba is the “main driving force” for action on Yahoo
and the company is “ready to buy back” Yahoo’s stake, Ma said.  “The board is actively looking at the full range of
options available to return the company to a path of robust
growth and industry-leading innovation,” interim CEO Tim Morse
said on a conference call earlier this week.  Yahoo recently agreed to extend a revenue-per-search pact
with Microsoft in the U.S. and  Canada  through 2013. The accord
had been set to run out in the first quarter of next year.  Microsoft may have concerns about its search-engine
partnership, Yang said today. The alliance “may not have gone
the way they wanted,” Yang said without elaborating.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net  