-- 
Yahoo May Get $18-$21 a Share in Takeover Bid, Gabelli Says

-- B y   K a i t l y n   K i e r n a n   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 
2011-10-20T20:39:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/yahoo-should-fetch-18-to-21-in-deal-shareholder-gabelli-says.html
Yahoo! Inc. may be valued at $18 to
$21 a share should the U.S. Web portal receive a takeover bid,
said  Mario Gabelli , whose  Gamco Investors Inc. (GBL)  owns the stock.  The range depends on how a deal is structured to minimize
taxes, he said during a Bloomberg Television interview today.
“Multiple parties” have expressed an interest in buying the
Sunnyvale, California-based company, Yahoo co-founder  Jerry Yang 
said in a memo last month. The Wall Street Journal said
yesterday that buyout firms are considering bids valuing Yahoo
at $16 to $18, citing people familiar with the matter. The stock
added 1.5 percent to $16.18 today.  Yahoo fell as low as $11.09 this year after the company
disclosed that Alibaba Group transferred its Alipay business to
a private entity controlled by Chief Executive Officer Jack Ma.
Yahoo, which is Alibaba’s biggest shareholder, ended up with
less access to the Chinese online payment unit’s growth.  “Yahoo has significant assets,” Gabelli, whose firm owns
more than 5.3 million shares of the company, said today during
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with
Betty Liu and Dominic Chu. “But they had their knees cut off by
what Jack Ma did,” said Gabelli, who oversees $28 billion as
chairman and chief executive officer of Gamco in Rye, New York.  Ma said Oct. 1 that he’s “very interested” in buying
Yahoo, which fired CEO  Carol Bartz  in September. Yahoo owns 40
percent of Alibaba. Reuters reported earlier this month that
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  may bid for Yahoo. KKR & Co. and  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  are among the private-equity firms considering possible
offers for Yahoo, people with knowledge of the matter told
Bloomberg News.  Yahoo isn’t necessarily for sale, Yang said at the All
Things Digital Asia conference in Hong Kong today. When he was
CEO in 2008, he rejected a $31-a-share offer from Microsoft.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kaitlyn Kiernan in New York at 
 kkiernan2@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  