-- 
Yen Debt Beats Global Peers as Quake Bonds Curbed: Japan Credit

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-10-21T02:24:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/yen-debt-beats-global-peers-as-quake-bonds-curbed-japan-credit.html
For the first time in four months
Japan’s bonds are outperforming the global sovereign  debt market 
as the government will borrow less than forecast to pay for
earthquake rebuilding.  Japanese debentures are little changed in October, compared
with a loss of 0.7 percent for federal debt of all nations,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The last
time investors lost money holding Japanese debt was in February,
when the market fell 0.13 percent. Demand at a sale of 20-year
securities yesterday was the strongest in five months, while the
average yield was about the lowest in a year.  The government will sell about 800 billion yen ($10.4
billion) of additional bonds to fund reconstruction from the
March 11 quake, according to the Ministry of Finance. That’s
less than half the amount primary dealers expected, and may ease
concern about how much Japan will add to a debt burden that’s
already the world’s largest.  “The  finance ministry  always does what it can to avoid
roiling the bond market,” said  Akitsugu Bandou , a senior
economist in  Tokyo  at Okasan Securities Co., one of the 25
primary dealers obliged to bid at government debt sales.
“Though there may be an occasional sell off when bond prices
rise too high, any rise in super-long yields will attract
buying.”  Auction Bids  Yesterday’s auction drew bids valued at 3.57 times the
amount offered, the highest ratio since a sale in May. The
average yield was 1.7555 percent, little changed from a sale
last month, when the rate was the lowest since August 2010.  The extra sales will bring the amount of debt sold to
investors, such as banks and life insurers, to a record 145.7
trillion yen. The initial plan for the business year, which
began April 1, was 144.9 trillion yen.  Starting from Nov. 29, the government will add 100 billion
yen to each monthly auction of debt maturing in two and five
years. The ministry currently sells 2.6 trillion yen in two-year
notes and 2.4 trillion yen in five-year notes every month.  Estimates of the extra issuance from analysts at UBS AG,
Mizuho Securities Co. and Nomura Securities Co. ranged between
1.2 trillion yen and 2.4 trillion yen. Primary dealers expected
2 trillion yen of additional sales, a ministry official said on
Oct. 13 after a meeting with the companies.  The ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan said last month it
planned to raise 9.2 trillion yen through temporary tax
increases and the sale of the government’s stake in Japan
Tobacco Inc. Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  approved
today a 12.1 trillion yen third supplementary budget to fund
rebuilding, following two packages totaling 6 trillion yen for
quake relief.  Yen Measures  The third budget includes 2 trillion yen to help companies
cope with the yen’s appreciation. Japan’s currency has soared 11
percent in the past six months, the most among 10 developed
nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes.  The yen tends to appreciate during economic and financial
turmoil because Japan’s current account surplus makes it less
reliant on foreign capital. Currency gains have hurt the
overseas competitiveness of Japanese companies, curtailing an
export-led economic recovery.  The yield on Japan’s 10-year notes rose 0.5 basis point to
1.01 percent today, about even with  Switzerland ’s for the lowest
among developed bond markets tracked by Bloomberg. The extra
yield investors demand to hold debt due in 20 years instead of
10 years was 77 basis points, the most since Sept. 12. Japanese
bond returns total 1.7 percent for the year, the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Corporate Spreads  The extra yield investors demand to own Japan’s corporate
bonds rather than government debt reached 83 basis points
yesterday, the highest since February 2009, according to an
index compiled by Nomura Securities Co.  Credit-default swaps tied to debt were at 123 basis points
yesterday, CMA prices in New York show. That translates into a
9.4 percent chance for the nation’s nonpayment, according to
Bloomberg calculations.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to debt agreements. CMA is owned by
CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bond Volatility  Europe ’s debt crisis in Europe has helped maintain demand
for Japanese bonds as a haven. The volatility of Japan’s bonds
based on a 60-day reading was 25, compared with 69 for
Treasuries and 60 for  Germany ’s debt, Bloomberg data show.  Officials in Europe are seeking to bolster the 440 billion-
euro ($607 billion) bailout fund to stem contagion from a debt
crisis that started in  Greece  in May 2010.  “Japan’s bond market is seemingly a forgotten market
because of its low volatility,” said  Ayako Sera , a market
strategist in Tokyo at Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co., which
manages the equivalent of $326 billion. “I don’t think Europe’s
problems will be resolved anytime soon, so  Japan ’s government
bonds will continue to receive funds in a flight to quality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  