-- 
Franc Strengthens as Summit Concern Boosts Safety Demand; Euro Fluctuates

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-10-21T11:06:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/yen-poised-for-weekly-advance-amid-european-debt-crisis-resolution-delays.html
The Swiss franc strengthened as
investors sought refuge amid concern European policy makers may
struggle to come up with a comprehensive plan to resolve the
region’s debt crisis.  The euro pared a 0.6 percent decline versus the dollar and
the yen after euro-area leaders scheduled an additional summit
for Oct. 26, on top of the one set for Oct. 23, because Germany
and  France  said they need more time to seal an accord. The franc
reached a two-week high versus the euro, while  Norway ’s krone
and Sweden’s krona rose as investors bought the safest European
currencies. The yen and the dollar headed for advances this week
against most of their major counterparts.  “The market feels comfortable that there’s still some
upside room in the Swiss franc,” said  Marc Ostwald , a
strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in  London . “It’s not a
huge amount of room but for some people it’s better than the
euro. I think it will be another choppy day as what is likely to
come out of the weekend’s meetings is the focus for markets.”  The franc rose 0.4 percent to 1.2267 per euro at 7:03 a.m.
New York time after reaching 1.2208, the strongest since Oct. 4.
The currency climbed 0.2 percent to 89.18 centimes per dollar.
The euro was 0.2 percent weaker at $1.3752, heading for a 0.9
percent loss this week. The 17-nation currency fell 0.2 percent
to 105.54 yen. The Japanese currency was little changed at 76.73
per dollar.  Stocks Advance  Almost two years after  Greece  was first bailed out by euro-
area nations, governments are still struggling to find a lasting
solution to a crisis that has since engulfed Ireland and
 Portugal  and is now threatening Italy and  Spain .  Negotiations on combining the European Union’s temporary
and planned permanent rescue funds in mid-2012, while scrapping
a ceiling on bailout spending, accelerated this week after
efforts to leverage the temporary fund ran into European Central
Bank opposition and provoked the French-German clash, two people
familiar with the discussions said. They declined to be
identified because political leaders will have to decide.  Norway’s krone appreciated against all but two of 16 major
peers tracked by Bloomberg, gaining 0.3 percent against the euro
to 7.7061.  Sweden ’s krona also gained 0.3 percent, to 9.0949 to
17-nation currency.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the U.S. currency against those of six U.S. trading
partners, was little changed at 76.992. The gauge has risen 0.5
percent this week.  Yen Safety Bid  The yen extended its weekly advance versus the euro to 1.6
percent. Demand for safety has seen  Japan ’s currency gain 7.8
percent versus a basket of nine of its developed-market peers
over the past three months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The dollar has risen 5.3 percent.  The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, has risen 23 percent since Oct. 14, set for the
biggest weekly gain in a month. The index measures the cost of
using put and call options to protect against changes in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “The yen’s strength is reflecting risk concern, as the
correlation between the currency and the VIX has tightened up
somewhat in recent sessions,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a Hong Kong-
based currency strategist at  Scotia Capital , the investment
banking unit of Bank of Nova Scotia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  