-- 
Hynix, Oracle, Google, 2012 Olympics: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-10-20T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/hynix-oracle-google-london-olympics-intellectual-property.html
The jury deliberating whether  Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  and  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  conspired to push
Rambus Inc. out of the memory-chip market is reviewing trial
testimony by Farhad Tabrizi, a former Hynix executive.  California  Superior Court Judge James McBride in  San
Francisco  said yesterday that the 12-member jury, which has been
deliberating since Sept. 22, requested information about
Tabrizi’s testimony that he was “pressured to become more
upbeat about” Rambus-designed dynamic random access memory
chips, or RDRAM, at a May 2000 chip industry forum. Rambus
lawyers questioned Tabrizi, a former Hynix vice president of
worldwide marketing, “extensively” about whether his
enthusiasm was “genuine,” McBride said.  McBride said in his chambers that he reviewed testimony
excerpts with lawyers from both sides to be read back to the
jury.  “We know that Mr. Tabrizi was not the most terse
witness,” and that he “tended to fold in a lot of topics in
any answer,” which produced objections from lawyers during
trial, McBride said. “The jury in its collective wisdom will
ask further questions” if the testimony isn’t satisfactory, the
judge said.  Rambus, based in Sunnyvale, California, contends that
Boise, Idaho-based Micron and Hynix of Ichon,  South Korea ,
colluded to cut the prices of their own SDRAM, or synchronous
dynamic random access memory, chips and deserted their
commitment to produce RDRAM, relegating it to a niche role.  Rambus contends it would have earned $3.95 billion in
patent royalties without the alleged conspiracy. Under
California law, a jury finding of damages in that amount would
be automatically tripled to $11.9 billion.  Lawyers for Hynix and Micron argued that Rambus has only
itself to blame, not collusion by rivals, for the flaws and
production delays that led to the failure of its product to
become an industry standard.  The case is  Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  v. Micron Technology Inc., 04-
0431105, California Superior Court (San Francisco).  Oracle Trial With Google Over Java Patents May Be Delayed  The judge presiding over  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s lawsuit over
whether Google Inc.’s Android software infringed patents on the
Java programming language said a trial may need to be before a
different judge to avoid a delay.  U.S. District Judge William Alsup in San Francisco vacated
the scheduled trial date of Oct. 31, saying it conflicts with a
criminal gang case in his courtroom that will continue through
January. He asked lawyers for Oracle and Google to consent to a
trial before a magistrate judge. If they don’t agree, Alsup said
he’s considering “swapping the case to another federal judge,”
and the companies will have no right to object.  “I have not been so overworked in 37 years of professional
life,” Alsup said. The hearing concluded today with no new
trial date scheduled.  Oracle is seeking at least $1 billion in damages from the
operator of the world’s largest search engine. Oracle, based in
Redwood City, California, accuses Google of infringing its Java
patents and copyrights in the Android operating system, now
running on more than 150 million mobile devices.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, has denied the
claims.  The judge gave the lawyers a chance to argue whether the
copyright and patent claims in the case should be split into two
trials. Alsup said he favors having the copyright issues decided
in the first trial.  “Maybe the jury would say there is no liability, then
there may be a settlement,” he said. “Maybe they would say
there is a huge liability and there might be a settlement. I’m
seeking some formula like that.”  Alsup made no decision yesterday on Google’s bid to exclude
as evidence an employee’s e-mail saying the company should
negotiate a license for Java.  Google said the e-mail was mistakenly provided to Oracle
during pre-trial document exchanges and should be kept secret
under a law protecting communications between attorneys and
their clients.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  Google Aims for ‘Patent Peace,’  Andy Rubin  Says  Google Inc. Senior Vice President Andy Rubin said the
company aims to have “peace” after an increase in the number
of patent disputes in the software industry recently.  “The legal system hasn’t caught up yet,” with the pace of
innovations in the wireless industry, Rubin told the  AsiaD
conference  in  Hong Kong  yesterday.  He also told the conference that his company is “close”
to setting up a music service. The perception of media companies
that Google is a technology company affected cooperation
previously, he said.  Without giving any time frame, Rubin said Google’s Galaxy
Nexus phone will be offered by  NTT Docomo Inc. (9437)   USPTO Says Patent Backlog Reaches Lowest Level in 5 Yrs  The number of patent applications awaiting a first review
by an examiner was cut to 669,625, the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office said in a  statement .  This is the lowest backlog in five years, according to the
USPTO. David Kappos, the Under Secretary of Commerce for
 Intellectual Property  and Director of the USPTO, said the
backlog reduction was achieved despite a 5 percent increase in
patent filings.  The office’s goal of clearing away the oldest pending
applications yielded the processing of 257,642 applications.
This was 20,000 more than the goal the USPTO set for itself for
its most recently completed fiscal year.  Dish Network’s Insurance Can Cover Patent Suit, Court Rules  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , a provider of satellite subscription
television service, persuaded a federal appeals court that its
commercial general liability insurance policy covered a patent
infringement suit.  In an Oct. 17 ruling, the Denver-based federal appeals
court reversed a lower court decision that the “advertising
injury” section of Dish’s policy wasn’t relevant to its defense
of that kind of suit.  Dish was sued by Los Angeles-based Ronald Katz Technology
Licensing LP in federal court in San Francisco in June 2007 and
accused of infringing 23 patents. Katz Technology Licensing is a
patent holder that has more than 100 patent infringement cases
against defendants in a wide range of industries.  The television company had asked its insurer to provide its
defense, claiming the suit could be covered by the “advertising
injury” section of the policy. A federal court in Denver
disagreed.  The appeals court said that the trial court looked at the
policy language too narrowly. The patented technology at issue
in the case could theoretically be used for advertising
purposes, and therefore the insurance company could have a duty
to defend Dish, the court ruled.  The case is Dish Network Corp. v. Arch Specialty Insurance
Co., 10-1445, 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Denver). The
lower court case is Dish Network Corp. v. Arch Specialty
Insurance Co., 1:09-cv-00447-JLK-MEH, U.S. District Court,
District of  Colorado  (Denver).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Lockheed Wins Bid to Block Raytheon’s ‘Paveway’ Bomb Trademark  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s largest defense
contractor, won a U.S. agency ruling that prevents  Raytheon Co. (RTN) 
from obtaining a trademark on the name “Paveway” for laser-
guided bombs.  Paveway is a generic term, a board at the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office in Alexandria,  Virginia , said in a Sept. 27
decision that rejected Raytheon’s request. Both Lockheed and
Waltham, Massachusetts-based Raytheon make bombs with the name.  Raytheon, the world’s largest missile maker, had sought
exclusive rights to the name after Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed began supplying laser-guided bombs to the U.S. Air
Force and Navy and international customers, Lockheed said
yesterday in a statement. Lockheed had filed notice of
opposition to the registration request in 2005.  The agency’s decision “fully recognizes Lockheed Martin as
one of two U.S. government-qualified sources for Paveway II
precision guided systems,” Joe Serra, a senior manager for
precision guided systems at Lockheed, said in the statement.  The case is Lockheed Martin Corp. v. Raytheon Co.,
Opposition No. 91174152, Trademark Trial and Appeal Board, U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office (Alexandria, Virginia).  London Olympics Wants Rules Against Ambush Marketing  In efforts to combat so-called “ ambush marketing ”  of
products and services without paying a sponsorship fee during
the  London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games , the U.K.
Department for Culture Media and Sport has proposed regulations
that will suspend the right to be presumed innocent until proven
guilty, the U.K.’s Independent newspaper  reported .  Under the regulations, interference with that right “will
be justified” if it’s done within reasonable limits, according
to the newspaper.  The proposed rules were described to the Independent as
“draconian” by Graham Wilson, a spokesman for the  National
Association of British Market Authorities .  The reach of the proposed regulations extends to landowners
where sale of unlicensed merchandise takes place, and to senior
company executives whose employees are involved in those sales,
the newspaper reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google Wins German Top Court Ruling Over Photo Search Previews  Google Inc., operator of the world’s most-used Internet
search engine, won dismissal of a lawsuit in  Germany ’s top civil
court aimed at stopping the company’s use of previews of
photographs.  The judges dismissed a case by a photographer who claimed
the search engine violated his copyrights.  The case is BGH, I ZR 140/10.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  ITC, Popular Venue for Patent Disputes, Gets Two New ALJs  The U.S. International Trade Commission, the agency that
directs actions against unfair trade practices, has hired two
new administrative law judges, the Washington-based organization
said in a statement.  Increasingly the ITC has become the venue for patent
disputes involving a wider range of high technology products,
such as mobile telephones and flat-screen televisions. The
agency has the power to issue orders barring the importation of
items that infringe U.S. patents.  The two new judges are Thomas Bernard Pender and David P.
Shaw.  Pender  previously served as an ALJ at the Social Security
Administration’s Office of Disability Adjudication and Review.
Before that, he held a similar post with the Small Business
Administration’s Office of Hearings and Appeals.  He has also worked as the chief trial attorney and director
of the Contract Disputes Resolution Center for Defense Contract
Management Agency, and as senior trial attorney in the Office of
the Chief Trial Attorney of the Air Force at Wright-Patterson
Air Force Base.  He’s also been a deputy district counsel for the U.S. Amy
Engineer District in Baltimore and as general attorney/trial
attorney for the U.S. Army Engineer District in Fort Worth,
 Texas . While on duty with the U.S. Army, he was an assistant
staff judge advocate and a trial defense counsel  Pender has an undergraduate degree from Virginia Military
Institute and a law degree from Emory University.  Shaw  also previously serves as an ALJ with the Social
Security Administration’s Office of Disability Adjudication and
Review at the National Hearing Center in Baltimore and, before
that, in Fayetteville,  North Carolina . He was an attorney
adviser in the trade commission’s Office of Administrative Law
Judges from 1987 to 2010.  He has an undergraduate degree from George Mason University
and a law degree from American University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 