-- 
Your World Series Awaits as Strat-O-Matic Baseball Hits 50

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-10-20T18:06:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-20/your-own-world-series-awaits-as-strat-o-matic-baseball-hits-50.html
Long after the close of the World
Series, the Cardinals’  Albert Pujols  and the Rangers’  Josh Hamilton  will continue to turn in great hitting and fielding
performances.  That’s true at least in the obsessive, throwback world of
Strat-O-Matic baseball and its stats-rich playing cards.  The iconic board game made by privately held  Strat-O-Matic
Media  LLC is celebrating its 50th anniversary this year. It
began with an 80-card set and now offers all 30 Major League
Baseball teams (1,026 cards, including extra players) plus
basketball, hockey, and both professional and college football.  “There were certain aspects of your childhood that
revolved around baseball -- going to games, flipping cards, and
playing Strat-O,” said Jeff Idelson, president of the  National
Baseball Hall of Fame  in Cooperstown,  New York , which sells a
Hall-branded version.  The company quietly ships out its statistically infused
cards from a warehouse adjacent to the Long Island Rail Road
tracks in Glen Head, New York. And while there is a computer
version of Strat-O-Matic -- albeit without fancy graphics -- and
an online version in conjunction with The Sporting News, the
core product remains the lavishly researched cards of each
batter and pitcher.  Teams of researchers pore over box scores and game accounts
to develop templates of how players will perform. Three dice
determine whether the batter will hit a game-winning home run,
line into a triple play, or anything in between.  Rolling the Dice  “There are people who have a Kindle and read books that
way, and people who say, ‘I have to have the book in my hand,’”
said former Major League outfielder Doug Glanville, an analyst
for  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN. “There’s nothing like rolling those
three dice and seeing what happens.”  The basic game hasn’t changed since an 11-year-old boy
named Hal Richman put the first numbers down on a piece of
cardboard. He wanted to develop a game that included both
batting and pitching probabilities.  Strat-O-Matic also takes into account a player’s running
speed and defensive prowess, while advanced versions offer
different outcomes depending on whether the batter is facing a
righty or lefty pitcher. They also figure in an outfielder’s
throwing arm and the home ballpark. New player cards with the
latest stats come out every year.  “It’s one of my favorite quotes, ‘In God we trust, all
others must have data,’” says former Major League pitching
coach Rick Peterson, a Bloomberg Sports adviser and founder of
3P Sports, a pitching program for amateur pitchers.  In a Strat-O-Matic simulation of this year’s  World Series ,
using 2010 statistics, the Rangers win in six games, with
Hamilton hitting .375 and Pujols bashing three home runs. The
final game went into extra innings. Texas closer Neftali Feliz
nailed down his third save of the series in the bottom of the
10th inning.  After graduating from Bucknell University in Lewisburg,
 Pennsylvania , with a degree in accounting and experience as a
statistician for the college’s basketball and football teams,
Richman produced his first baseball game in 1961, touting it
through ads in sports publications.  ‘Damn Yankees’  After two unsuccessful years, Richman borrowed $5,000 from
his father and promised to join his insurance business if the
game failed. He called it his “deal like in ‘Damn Yankees,’”
and it paid off.  When a baseball strike delayed the 1981 All-Star Game in
 Cleveland , the game was played with Strat-O-Matic cards and Hall
of Fame pitcher Bob Feller on hand.  After Lenny Dykstra homered for the  New York Mets  to win
Game 3 of the 1986 National League playoffs, he said, “The last
time I hit a home run in the bottom of the ninth to win a game
was in Strat-O-Matic.”  Richman, now 75, won’t disclose financial details of the
company, other than to say that it has nine fulltime employees
and doesn’t have the money to run national TV ads.  Word of Mouth  Instead, Strat-O-Matic still places ads in baseball
magazines and relies on word of mouth. Those voices are getting
older; the average player today grew up with the game and is
more than 35 years old. Seeking a new generation of fans, the
company this year introduced a simplified, entry-level version
known as Baseball Express sold exclusively by Toys R Us Inc.  “The younger market has been taken over by the graphic
games,” said Richman. “But in many households, when the
fathers play the game, they’re the ones who entice the
youngsters. There’s something from rolling dice that you can’t
get from pushing a button.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 