-- ‘Rebecca’ Backer Accused of Defrauding Broadway Producers
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-10-15T17:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/-rebecca-backer-accused-of-defrauding-broadway-producers.html
The Broadway producers of “Rebecca
-- The Musical” were defrauded by a  Long Island , New York, man
who concocted fictional investors and the prospect of $4.5
million in financing to collect undeserved commissions,
prosecutors said.  Mark Hotton, a 46-year-old former Oppenheimer & Co. broker,
was arrested at his West Islip home this morning. He made up the
promise of financial backing and a possible $1.1 million loan to
get more than $60,000 from producers of the musical,  Manhattan 
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said today in a statement. Previews
were to have begun at the Broadhurst theater on Oct. 30.  The musical, based on Daphne du Maurier’s novel, had a
budget of as much as $14 million. Producers signed an agreement
with Hotton in February to make up a $4 million shortfall -- not
realizing the investors Hotton said he had rounded up were
bogus, Bharara said.  “Mark Hotton perpetrated stranger-than-fiction frauds both
on and off Broadway,” Bharara said. “To carry out the alleged
fraud, Hotton faked lives, faked companies and even staged a
fake death, pretending that one imaginary investor had suddenly
died from malaria.”  ‘Fictional’ Investor  Producers paid Hotton more than $15,000 in fees plus
$18,210.88, for purportedly treating one of the fictional
investors, Paul Abrams of Hawthorn,  Australia , to a safari,
prosecutors said.  In early August, Hotton forwarded to producers an e-mail
purportedly from one of Abrams’ assistants that he had died, and
Hotton corresponded that he was about to fly from  Newark ,  New
Jersey , to interact with Abrams’s estate and “get it worked
out,” the complaint said.  On Sept. 8, the producers announced that rehearsals would
be delayed by two weeks “due to the death of a major
investor.” On Sept. 30, they said the postponement was
indefinite.  Ben Sprecher, one of the two lead producers of the show,
was pleased that Hotton was arrested, said Sprecher’s lawyer,
Ron Russo.  “He’s a bad guy and he did a lot of damage to ‘Rebecca,’”
Russo said in an interview. “This is a major step in clearing
Ben’s reputation.”  “Mr. Sprecher remains committed to bringing ‘Rebecca’ to
Broadway,” Russo said.  Full Refund  The complaint said the production’s legitimate investors
are entitled to a full refund of their contributions should the
partnership created to stage the show fail to raise $12 million
by year-end. The complaint quotes an e-mail by an unidentified
“Rebecca” producer that $6 million was already spent and that
more money is owed to vendors including the owner of the theater
and advertising agency.  Hotton was also charged with running a second scheme, in
which he allegedly tricked a Connecticut-based real estate
company into paying him and entities he controlled $750,000,
Bharara said.  Hotton, who was scheduled to appear in court today in
 Central Islip , New York, faces two counts of  wire fraud , with a
maximum possible sentence of 20 years in jail on each charge,
authorities said.  Unauthorized Trading  Gerald Shargel , Hotton’s lawyer, declined to comment on the
case until he had a chance to review the charges.  Hotton filed for  bankruptcy protection  last year in federal
court on Long Island.  Hotton worked at Oppenheimer in Jericho, New York, from
November 2005 to February 2009, according to a 42-page
disciplinary  record  from the  Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority . In March 2010, a customer accused him of doing
excessive, unsuitable and unauthorized trading, according to the
report. The allegation was settled for $113,500, with
Oppenheimer and Hotton splitting the penalty, according to the
report.  The case is U.S. v. Hotton, 12-2686, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  