-- Abbott’s Hepatitis C Drugs Clear Virus in 99% of Patients
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-10-15T20:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/abbott-s-hepatitis-c-drugs-clear-virus-in-99-of-patients.html
An experimental drug combination
from  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  wiped out all traces of the virus that
causes hepatitis C in 99 percent of patients with the liver
disease, a study showed.  The 571 patients in the trial took a two- or three-drug
mixture of Abbott therapies for 8 to 24 weeks, along with the
antiviral ribavirin. A 79-patient group on the combination of
three medicines plus ribavirin for 12 weeks responded best, the
 Abbott Park , Illinois-based company said today in a statement.  Abbott is among several companies racing to develop
hepatitis C pills to replace the standard yearlong injectable
treatment.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  also reported today that one
of its drug combinations helped patients who hadn’t previously
been treated for the  viral infection . Hepatitis C is estimated
to affect 180 million people worldwide with the market for new
therapies forecast to reach $20 billion by 2020.  “We feel this regimen is going to be bringing significant
efficacy, safety and convenience benefits to patients,” Scott
Brun, head of Abbott’s virology development, said in a telephone
interview.  In the competition for a new therapy,  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) 
will have to produce data that shows its combination of drugs is
about as effective as Abbott’s, said  Mark Schoenebaum , an
analyst with International Strategy & Investment Group in  New
York . “Gilead’s got to produce 90 percent” rates of clearing
the virus, he said. “If they don’t, people are going to get
worried.”  Gilead is conducting an 800-person trial with fewer pills
than Abbott’s regimen.  Shares Rise  Abbott gained 4 percent to $72.05 at 4 p.m. New York time,
the biggest single-day gain since August 2011. Gilead fell less
than 1 percent to $67.32. Bristol-Myers rose 2.5 percent to
$33.93.  Bristol-Myers and Abbott could cut into a market that
Gilead had been expected to dominate, said  Catherine Arnold , an
analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG in New York. In a note to
clients today, she predicted that Gilead would have $3.8 billion
in hepatitis C sales in 2020, and Abbott would follow with $2.5
billion and Bristol-Myers with $1.3 billion.  In Abbott’s clinical trial, 93 percent of a different 45-
patient group, so-called null responders who had failed prior
therapies, were cleared of the virus as well, Abbott said. The
standard of care typically makes the virus undetectable in 30
percent of patients, Brun said.  “What we find really exciting is the results of the null
responders,” he said.  The company will next test the combination of these drugs,
ABT-450, ABT-267, ABT-333, in the last of three stages of trials
typically required for U.S. regulatory approval.  Weekly Shots  The treatment for hepatitis C for the past decade has been
a combination of ribavirin with interferon, an immune-boosting
protein. Patients receive weekly shots of interferon for as long
as a year, which can cause side effects such as fatigue and flu-
like symptoms.  There are four new classes of drugs under development to
cure hepatitis C. Each work in different ways to stop the virus
from replicating, and can be effective against one or several
subtypes of the disease.  Achillion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ACHN) , Bristol-Myers, Gilead,
 Idenix Pharmaceuticals Inc. (IDIX) ,  Merck & Co. (MRK)  and  Vertex
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  are testing therapies, either alone or
together, with varying degrees of success. The promise of the
market spurred at least three acquisitions since October.  Gilead announced in July it would drop ribavirin as part of
a combination and test two experimental medicines, GS-7977 and
GS-5885 in a trial of 800 patients, with the possibility to
apply for regulatory approval in the middle of 2014. Results may
be reported at the  American Association  for the Study of Liver
Diseases’ annual meeting next month in  Boston . Abbott could have
its drug on the market by 2015, Brun said.  Achilles’ Heel  “I would argue the ball is still in Gilead’s court,”
Schoenebaum said. “In my view the Abbott data are really good.
But Abbott suffers from the same Achilles’ heel, which is that
the regimen contains ritonavir, which physicians don’t want to
use, and the higher pill burden.”  Brun said the number of different medicines involved may
not matter, if the company can find ways to combine them into
fewer pills.  “The pure number of drugs does not necessarily represent
complexity,” Brun said, also arguing that for a viral disease
like hepatitis, the company’s research had found that patients
would tolerate a more complicated dosing regimen.  Rising Deaths  Rising hepatitis C deaths among so-called  baby boomers  from
the infection prompted U.S. health officials to declare in May
that all of those born from 1946 to 1964 are at risk and should
be tested.  Bristol-Myers is testing a new combination of its
experimental drugs without using ribavirin and interferon.
Instead, the therapy uses daclatasvir, asunaprevir and BMS-
791325, all of which act directly on the virus. In a 32-person
trial of patients who hadn’t been treated before, 94 percent
cleared the virus from their bodies after 12 weeks on the New
York-based company’s combination therapy.  The trial is in the second of three phases of testing
before a possible approval. Bristol-Myers’ hepatitis C program
suffered a major setback this summer, when it ended development
of the drug it paid $2.5 billion for with its February purchase
of Inhibitex Inc. after patients developed heart failure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  