-- Lacker Says QE to Give Small Boost While Raising Prices
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-10-15T19:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/lacker-says-qe-to-give-small-boost-while-raising-prices.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President Jeffrey Lacker said the Fed’s decision last month to
step up record stimulus through bond purchases will probably
give the economy just a small boost because inflation may rise.  “Monetary policy is simply unable to offset all of the
ways in which various frictions impede the economy’s adjustment
to various shocks,” Lacker said today in the text of a speech
to government and business leaders in Roanoke, Virginia. “The
term ‘maximum employment’ in our congressional mandate should
therefore be thought of as the level of employment that
currently can be achieved by a central bank.”  The Federal Open Market Committee last month announced it
will purchase $40 billion a month in mortgage debt, saying it
was “concerned that, without further policy accommodation,
economic growth might not be strong enough to generate sustained
improvement in labor market conditions.”  Lacker dissented at the FOMC’s Sept. 12-13 meeting,
extending his string of dissents from every  FOMC decision  this
year.  U.S. central bankers are debating whether additional
monetary stimulus would spur the slow economic recovery and help
them meet their congressional mandate to achieve maximum
employment and stable prices. Unemployment is 7.8 percent and
inflation is running below the central bank’s 2 percent target.  William Dudley, FOMC Vice Chairman and New York Fed
President, said today that monetary policy may be less powerful
after a financial crisis because credit standards rise, loan
availability shrinks and households focus on reducing debt.  ‘Be Aggressive’  Those are reasons “to be aggressive in terms of the policy
response,” Dudley said in a speech to the National Association
for Business Economics in New York.  Still, the longer-term costs of balance sheet expansion
have to be weighed against benefits, Lacker said.  “The benefits of that action are likely to be small,
because it’s unlikely to improve growth without also causing an
unwelcome increase in inflation,” Lacker said in reference to
purchases of mortgage-backed securities. “Adding to our balance
sheet increases the risk we will have to move quickly when the
time comes to normalize monetary policy and begin raising
rates.”  Lacker said in response to audience questions that
unwinding the balance sheet will be a tricky question. The Fed
would like to make the exit predictable, although economic
conditions may compel the central bank to change what they
announce, he said.  Never Before  “We have never done this before,” he said. “We have
never been in a tightening cycle where we’re doing it by raising
the rate on reserves and selling at the same time.”  Still, any profit or loss the Fed experiences as result of
exit or holding a high level of assets now should be
“secondary” to policy objectives.  Lacker said picking a variable such as the unemployment
rate as a benchmark on when to begin changing monetary policy is
difficult because it could be influenced by changes in labor
market conditions, such as flows into the work force from people
who aren’t working today.  “Labor market conditions are more complicated than any one
number can convey,” he said in response to an audience
question. “It just doesn’t seem wise to pin everything on a
single number” other than the inflation rate which the central
bank controls over the long term.  Lacker said he considers the Fed’s 2 percent inflation
target as an average over time rather than as a ceiling.  Longest Stretch  There are signs optimism among consumers and businesses may
be rising. Before September, the unemployment rate had exceeded
8 percent since February 2009, the longest stretch since monthly
jobless figures were first compiled in 1948.  Retail sales in the U.S. rose more than projected in
September. The 1.1 percent advance followed a revised 1.2
percent increase in August that was the biggest since October
2010 and larger than previously reported, Commerce Department
figures showed today in  Washington .  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent to
1,434.87 at 2:49 p.m. in New York, after the benchmark gauge for
American equities slumped 2.2 percent last week. The yield on
the benchmark 10-year Treasury note increased 0.01 percentage
point to 1.66 percent.  The FOMC last month didn’t announce a time or amount for
the total bond purchases, deciding instead to keep them open-
ended and aimed at improving labor market conditions
“substantially.”  Accommodative Stance  The committee said in its Sept. 13 statement that it
“expects that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy
will remain appropriate for a considerable time after the
economic recovery strengthens,” and forecasts it would hold the
benchmark rate near zero until at least mid-2015.  “It’s unlikely that we would be able to restore the
unemployment rate to its long-run level immediately -- within a
quarter or two,” Lacker said. “At the same time, there are
significant social costs associated with delaying the recovery
in labor market conditions too long.”  “The key point here is that simply observing a high
unemployment rate does not imply that the Fed’s monetary policy
is failing to comply with its congressional mandate, nor does it
necessarily mean that monetary policy needs to do more to
achieve its goals,” he said.  Lacker, 57, has been president of his regional bank since
2004. He was previously the Richmond Fed’s director of research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Roanoke at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  