-- Ackman Rail Chief Shuffles Team in Speed Quest
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-10-15T20:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/ackman-rail-chief-shuffles-team-in-speed-quest-corporate-canada.html
Hunter Harrison  is following through
on his pledge to instill a “sense of urgency” and “speed
things up” at  North America ’s least-efficient major railroad.  In the past month,  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) ’s chief
executive officer has presided over the exit of two holdovers
from his predecessor’s leadership team and started a long-haul
service that chops travel times for some freight shipments by as
much as a third.  Harrison’s vow on his debut conference call in July was
aimed at shareholders betting that he can repeat the turnaround
he engineered at  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  Retired since
2009, the 67-year-old Harrison became  William Ackman ’s choice to
run Canadian Pacific as the New York-based activist investor
waged a proxy battle that led to CEO  Fred Green ’s ouster in May.  “Hunter has a saying: ‘You change a culture one funeral at
a time,’ and what we’ve seen in the last couple of weeks are a
few funerals,” said Brandon Snow, manager of the C$1.3 billion
($1.33 billion) Cambridge Canadian Equity Corporate Class fund
in Toronto, which owns  Canadian National  shares.  The shares of the Calgary-based railroad surged 18 percent
from June 28, the day before Harrison’s hiring, to C$87 on Oct.
12. Canadian National rose 1 percent in that period. Canadian
Pacific rose 1 percent to C$87.89 in Toronto, the second session
in a row that the stock reached a five-year high.  Harrison’s challenge will be sustaining the recent gains
with higher profits. Canadian Pacific’s operating ratio, a gauge
of expenses against revenue, was last in North America at 82.5
in the second quarter. That lagged behind the 69.1 average of
eight large railroads, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Train Velocity  The carrier also trailed most North American peers for
average train velocity, the data show. On dwell time, the number
of hours cars sit in rail yards, Canadian Pacific was ahead of
 Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the biggest U.S. railroad, while still
short of Canadian National.  Harrison helped drive the “premium” long-distance service
announced Sept. 17 to speed container shipments on Vancouver-
Toronto and Vancouver-Chicago lines, Chief Marketing Officer
Jane O’Hagan said in a telephone interview.  “He felt an urgency to get into the marketplace for the
fall, for the peak season, and really pushed the team to act
swiftly, to implement a service that we could use to be ready,”
O’Hagan said.  Harrison then turned his attention to shuffling his inner
circle. Chief Operations Officer Mike Franczak left after seven
months in that post and isn’t being replaced “at this time,”
the company said Oct. 1. Ten days later, the railroad said Chief
Financial Officer Kathryn McQuade would retire on Nov. 1.  ‘Lethargic Management’  “Hunter is getting a hold of the company, he’s shaking it
up after many years of lethargic management,” said Michael Simpson, a  fund manager  at Sentry Select Capital Corp. in
Toronto, which oversees about C$8.5 billion in assets and owns
Canadian National stock. “He’s going to try to instill his
brand of precision railroading at CP.”  At Canadian National and Illinois Central Corp., Harrison’s
previous employer, he focused on running shipments and carloads
on fixed timetables to ensure reliable deliveries. Maintaining
freight schedules has long been an industry challenge.  Efficiency upgrades at Canadian Pacific may take time as
some employees resist Harrison’s efforts to overhaul the way the
railroad does business, according to Snow, a former industry
analyst at  Fidelity Investments .  Culture Challenge  “It’s a battle when you are trying to change the
culture,” Snow said in an interview. “The question now is
whether people are going to be more defensive. It’s going to be
interesting to see as he tries to do what he did at CN -- if he
gets more pushback, if it’s more difficult, if it takes
longer.”  Walter Spracklin , an RBC Capital Markets analyst in
Toronto, said he’s “skeptical” that Harrison can meet his
long-stated goal of achieving a 65 percent operating ratio in
four years. Harrison reaffirmed that pledge on his July 25
conference call.  Even if Harrison doesn’t hit that target, he still will
improve operations and profit, Spracklin said in a telephone
interview. He projects earnings per share to be C$3.93 this year
and C$5.21 in 2013. The company reported $C3.34 in 2011.  The executive shake-up and service push are “more than
symbolic, they’re a bellwether of things to come,” said
Spracklin, who has an outperform rating on the stock. “There’s
no question they are going to lead to major change at the
organization, very quickly.”  Reputation Earned  Harrison earned a reputation for profit and operational
improvements in his seven years running Montreal-based Canadian
National.  Net income  more than tripled, and the operating ratio
at  Canada ’s biggest railroad fell to 67.3 in 2009 from 76 at the
end of 2002, filings show.  That record led Ackman, the founder of New York-based hedge
fund Pershing Square Capital Management LP, to recruit Harrison
as his CEO candidate in the push to dump Green, which succeeded
in May. Pershing Square’s stake was 14 percent as of June, based
on  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Ackman didn’t respond to an Oct.
12 e-mail seeking comment on Harrison’s tenure.  Canadian Pacific  shareholders will get a chance Oct. 24 to
assess Harrison in his new role as the railroad reports results
for his first full quarter. Earnings may be C$1.26 a share, the
average estimate in a Bloomberg  survey  of 28 analysts.  A turnaround at Canadian Pacific “could be the most
compelling railroad investment opportunity for the next three
years,” William Greene, a Morgan Stanley analyst in  New York ,
said in a Sept. 24 note. The carrier’s network “is certainly
not broken and arguably has strong potential,” he said.  ‘Clear Path’  Greene, who has an overweight rating on the stock, predicts
Canadian Pacific’s operating ratio may drop to 72 next year,
“with a clear path” toward the “mid-60s” by 2015. One
possible source of savings: chopping bills for consultants that
probably amount to “tens of millions” of dollars annually,
Greene said.  “While the elimination of consultants alone does not fix
the operating ratio, it sets a tone for efficiency
immediately,” he said.  Harrison, speaking in a July 25 Bloomberg News interview,
said longer-term improvements may include a reduction in
terminals and a capacity cut of 20 percent to 25 percent in the
locomotive fleet over four years.  Simpson, the Sentry Select fund manager, said he would look
for evidence of progress on plans to curb  capital spending  and
boost revenue with steps such as charging “more rational
pricing.”  Investors “want to see if there’s a good plan to
streamline the operations, to manage the network efficiently and
win some new business,” Simpson said. “If I see that, if I see
better operating ratios, better train speeds, lower dwell time,
then I will look at buying the stock.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  