-- Aegerion Shares Rise on Report of High Cholesterol Drug
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-10-15T20:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/aegerion-shares-rise-on-fda-report-of-high-cholesterol-treatment.html
Aegerion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AEGR)  rose
after a U.S. regulatory staff report said a plan to manage the
risks of the company’s drug supports its approval in adults with
the most life-threatening forms of severely high cholesterol.  Aegerion gained 9.4 percent to $17.46 at the close of New
York trading following the  Food and Drug Administration ’s staff
report today. An advisory panel will meet Oct. 17 on the
medicine lomitapide, Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Aegerion’s
lead product candidate, with the FDA scheduled to make a final
decision by the end of December.  The once-daily pill aims to treat a genetic condition known
as familial hypercholesterolemia that causes abnormalities in
liver cells responsible for clearing LDL, or low density
lipoprotein, particles from the blood. The disease can lead to
heart attack or death at an early age, according to the  National
Institutes of Health . The advisory panel will consider a similar
drug from  Isis Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ISIS)  and  Sanofi (SAN)  on Oct. 18.  The risk plan “would support appropriate use of
lomitapide, allowing it to be approved for use in the targeted
patient population, a patient population with life threatening
illness and limited therapeutic options,” FDA staff wrote.  Beyond Labeling  The FDA can require risk evaluation and mitigation
strategies, or REMS, that go beyond drug labeling to ensure the
benefits of a medication outweigh the risks.  “We do not believe that larger studies will be necessary
given the REMS,” Kimberly Lee, an analyst at Think Equity
Partners in  San Francisco  said in a telephone interview. “The
FDA recommended the REMS program to better assess the  drug
safety .”  Of the 29 patients in a clinical trial, 17 percent
experienced the presence of an increased enzyme in their blood
that indicates liver damage. The FDA suggested Aegerion’s risk
management plan include educating prescribers about liver risks
and the need to monitor patients with blood tests.  William Tanner , an analyst with Lazard Capital Markets LLC
in New York, who rates Aegerion shares as neutral, estimates
lomitapide may generate $300 million or more in annual sales.
The estimate is based on a price of about $300,000 a year per
patient that is similar to the costs of other drugs for diseases
with few treatment options, he said. Lee said peak sales may
reach $450 million.  Isis, based in Carlsbad,  California , gained 4 percent to
$13.15.  People with familial hypercholesterolemia don’t respond to
standard cholesterol-lowering drugs such as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s
Lipitor.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. originally began development of
lomitapide and abandoned the compound after patients dropped out
of a trial at a high rate because gastrointestinal side effects
made it tough to tolerate the drug, according to Aegerion’s
website.  Three patients out of 29 enrolled in a different clinical
trial conducted by Aegerion left because of gastrointestinal
side effects, the company said in a statement in May 2011 when
the results of the study were released.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  