-- Akin Gump, Proskauer, Debevoise, Skadden: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-10-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/akin-gump-proskauer-debevoise-skadden-business-of-law.html
A seven-partner team of corporate
and litigation partners from Haynes & Boone LLP jumped to  Akin
Gump  Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP’s  Dallas  office.  Corporate partners Tom Yang, Garrett DeVries and Matt
Zmigrosky, will continue their focus on mergers and
acquisitions, capital markets and securities, including private-
equity transactions, the firm said.  Litigators Marty Brimmage Jr., Mike Warnecke, Arnold
Spencer and Sarah Teachout will focus on white-collar,
government investigations, antitrust, false-claims matters,
bankruptcy litigation and commercial litigation.  “This is an extraordinary group of lawyers entering the
prime of their careers,” firm Chairman Bruce McLean said in a
statement. “Their arrival will be a tremendous step forward for
Akin Gump in Dallas and will greatly enhance our core strengths
in corporate and litigation work.”  Hanes and Boone said in a statement, “We are saddened to
see these colleagues, many of whom started their careers here at
Haynes and Boone, leave.  We wish them well and much success in
their new firm.”  Akin Gump has more than 850 attorneys in 17 offices in the
U.S.,  Europe ,  Asia  and the  Middle East .  Rothschild Said to Hire Lazard’s Walker, Former Cleary MP  Rothschild, a family-run bank, hired  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) ’s former
senior adviser Mark Walker, who worked with  Greece  on debt
restructuring, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  Walker joined Rothschild in  London  last month to work on
sovereign debt for government clients, said the people, who
declined to be named because they aren’t authorized to speak
publicly on the matter. Richard Creswell, a London-based
spokesman for Lazard, and a Rothschild spokesman in Paris
declined to comment.  Lazard hired Walker to its government advisory unit in
Paris last year. He was previously managing partner at  New York- 
based law firm  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP , working on
debt negotiations for five decades, including in  Mexico  during
the Latin American crisis of the early 1980s.  Before  moving to Lazard , Walker worked with the  New York 
Federal Reserve and the  U.S. Treasury  on how to deal with the
aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis, Lazard said in a
statement in June last year.  Steptoe, Hunton & Williams, Baker Donelson’s U.S. Hires  Steptoe & Johnson LLP hired Harvey Geller for its
intellectual property group, the Washington-based firm said in a 
statement .  He joins the firm from Universal Music Group Inc., where he
was deputy general counsel and senior vice president of business
and legal affairs until May. His area of expertise is copyright,
and he has litigated cases involving user-generated content and
inducement of copyright infringement.  John R.R. Tormey has joined Hunton & Williams LLP’s global
energy and infrastructure team as counsel in  Washington . John
was previously senior counsel at Constellation Energy Group Inc.  At Constellation Energy, Tormey was primary legal advisor
for development and acquisition of conventional fuel projects,
alternative energy projects, as well as all finance, commercial,
corporate and regulatory compliance matters for Constellation’s
non-nuclear generation fleet. He also was primary counsel for
UniStar Nuclear’s project and financing agreements in the
development of new nuclear  power plants , the firm said.  Martha L. Boyd and John M. Scannapieco have joined the
Nashville office of Baker, Donelson, Bearman, Caldwell &
Berkowitz PC. Both shareholders were both previously with
Bradley Arant Boult Cummings LLP, the firm said.  Scannapieco, who was the leader of Bradley Arant’s  China 
practice team, will co-leader the firm’s Global practice team
with Doreen Edelman of in Washington office. His focus on
international law includes working with a variety of U.S.-based
companies in connection with their business activities in China,
 Japan , Europe, the Americas and  Africa , the firm said.  Boyd concentrates her practice in labor and employment law
and employee benefits litigation. She has represented employers
in litigation in state and federal courts and assists employers
in assessing and reducing risk associated with personnel
decisions and policy implementation.  News  “Suicide Prices” & the Coming Crisis at Big Law Firms: Video  An increasing number of major law firms are quoting
“suicide prices” just to get business that will keep their
lawyers occupied, even though the firms can’t make money on the
work, according to law firm consultant Bruce MacEwen.  Those firms may be training clients, like department stores
have done with their customers, only to buy when prices are
discounted, which could lead to more major firms going out of
business, says MacEwen, who writes at Adam Smith Esq.  “Some firms get it completely; other firms just are
hoping they can hold their breath and it will be 2006 again.”  MacEwen talks with Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia.  For the video, click here.  Deals  Proskauer, Morgan Lewis on Ares Purchase of Smart & Final  Proskauer Rose LLP advised Ares Management in its agreement
to acquire a majority stake in Smart & Final Holdings Corp, for
$975 million, with senior management retaining a minority stake.
 Morgan Lewis  & Bockius LLP advised Smart & Final, majority-owned
and controlled by investment funds affiliated with Apollo Global
Management LLC.  The Proskauer lawyers advising on the deal are partners
Michael Woronoff and Daniel Ganitsky, mergers and acquisitions;
Michael Fernhoff, tax; Philippa Bond and Andrew Bettwy, finance;
and  Daryn Grossman , intellectual property.  The Morgan Lewis deal team was led by business and finance
partners Robert Robison and R. Alec Dawson.  Retailer Smart & Final operates 235 stores under three
formats in six western U.S. states, with an additional 13 joint-
venture stores in northwest Mexico.  Ares Management LLC is a global alternative asset manager
and SEC registered  investment adviser  headquartered in  Los
Angeles .  It has about $54 billion of committed capital under
management and over 540 employees, the firm said in a statement.  For more, click here.  AIA Group Agrees to Buy ING’s Malaysia Unit for $1.7 Billion  Debevoise & Plimpton LLP is advising  AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , the
third-largest Asia-based insurer, in its agreement to buy  ING
Groep NV (INGA) ’s insurance business in  Malaysia  for about 1.3 billion
euros ($1.7 billion) in its largest acquisition as a listed
company. Allen & Overy LLP is advising ING.  The Debevoise team was led by partner E. Drew Dutton in
 Hong Kong  and included partners Jeremy G. Hill and Richard Ward
in London. Charles Honée and Richard Evans were lead partners on
this deal at A&O.  The purchase will boost the percentage of profit AIA gets
from Malaysia to 13 percent from 8 percent, it said in a
statement. Separately, AIA said its value of new business rose
22 percent in the third quarter to a record $300 million.  The acquisition will combine ING’s operations, the third-
largest in Malaysia, and AIA’s existing business, the fourth
biggest, to create the No. 1 life insurer in the country,
according to the statement.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Baker & McKenzie  Announce New Leaders in Australia and Toronto  Baker & McKenzie LLP’s Chris Saxon has been appointed
national chairman of the firm’s Australian offices, and Kevin B. Coon has been named managing partner of its Toronto office. Both
take over their new leadership roles after their predecessors
were appointed to the firm’s executive committee.  Saxon succeeds Bruce Hambrett who has been appointed to the
firm’s primary management team, the executive committee.  Saxon is a projects lawyer, focusing on infrastructure and
energy and resources. He led the Baker & McKenzie team advising
the NSW Government on the state’s electricity privatization and
is an adviser on the next round of NSW Electricity
Privatizations, the firm said in a statement.  Coon is a member of Baker & McKenzie’s labor and employment
practice. He previously was head of the Toronto labor and
employment practice and the North American representative on
firm’s global talent management committee. He succeeds Jim Holloway.  Baker & McKenzie has more than 4,000 lawyers in 72 offices
in 45 countries.  Jones Day Launches Intellectual-Property Agency in China  Jones Day  established a licensed domestic intellectual-
property agency in China. The agency was formed to meet growing
demand for intellectual-property consulting services, the firm
said.  The Jones Day Intellectual Property Agency (Beijing) Co.,
Ltd. works with clients on anti-counterfeiting strategies,
administrative raid and market sweep actions, trademark matters
before the China Trademark Office, the Trademark Review and
Adjudication Board and the People’s Courts in China, and deals
with Chinese customs seizures, the firm said.  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers in 35 offices
worldwide.  Litigation  Berezovsky to Pay $56 Million of Abramovich U.K. Lawsuit Costs  Boris Berezovsky  agreed to pay 35 million pounds ($56
million) of Roman Abramovich’s legal fees for a U.K. lawsuit in
which Berezovsky sought compensation for stakes in two companies
he said he was intimidated into selling.  The fee goes to pay a bill by Abramovich’s counsel, Skadden
Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP, which asked for 40 million
pounds, Legal Week  reported.  Skadden’s bill included an 8
million pound payment to Brick Court’s Jonathan Sumption QC, the
publication said.  Berezovsky has been represented by Addleshaw Goddard LLP,
Legal Week reported.  The fee deal is a “very efficient settlement,” Judge
Elizabeth Gloster said Oct. 12 at a London hearing.  The self-exiled adviser to former Russian President  Boris Yeltsin  sued claiming he lost about $6.8 billion, because he was
intimidated by Abramovich into selling stakes in two Russian
companies. A large portion of the legal fees were racked up
during a three-month trial which culminated in August with
Gloster rejecting Berezovsky’s claims against Abramovich, who
owns Chelsea Football Club and has a fortune of about $14.5
billion.  Both sides accused each other of dishonesty and greed
during the trial and exposed the business practices of a small
group of extremely wealthy Russians who profited from the fall
of communism and the privatization of many of the country’s
largest energy companies.  Berezovsky was “an unimpressive, and inherently unreliable
witness, who regarded truth as a transitory flexible concept,”
Gloster said in her judgment after the trial.  Berezovsky also paid 3.75 million pounds of a 5 million
pound bill by Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP for client
Vasily Anisimov, LegalWeek said. Berezovsky settled a case
against Anisimov involving a breach of fiduciary duty over
interest in an ire ore producer, the publication said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 