-- Malaysia Can Store 5.2 Million Tons of Palm Oil, Dompok Says
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-10-15T09:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/malaysia-may-have-exhausted-palm-oil-storage-hwangdbs-says-1-.html
Malaysia can store 5.2 million
metric tons of  palm oil , according to Plantation Industries and
Commodities Minister Bernard Dompok, puncturing speculation that
capacity may be fully used after holdings advanced to a record.  “Although prices have not been upbeat over the last few
weeks, demand remains strong,” Dompok told a conference in
Kuala Lumpur today, before giving the storage-capacity estimate
in a press conference, citing the Malaysian Palm Oil Association.
That figure is more than twice the reserves held last month.  Palm oil has tumbled 23 percent this year as slowdowns in
Europe and  China  curbed growth in overseas demand for the edible
oil. HwangDBS Vickers Research Sdn. said that Malaysia may have
run out of available storage space in a report to clients today
that analyzed export-tax changes announced by Dompok last week.
Production in  Malaysia  last month was the highest ever.  “We believe there may not be any spare  storage capacity ,”
HwangDBS said in the report. The tax announcement on Oct. 12,
which will take effect from Jan. 1, “did not mention how the
government intends to address the issue of record palm-oil
inventory in the interim,” it said.  Reserves of palm oil increased to the all-time high of 2.48
million tons last month, according to data from the Malaysian
Palm Oil Board. That was the third straight increase in monthly
holdings, and 46 percent above the level in June. Production was
2 million tons, a monthly record, according to board data.  ‘Enough Storage’  “The point is not whether there’s enough storage, the
point is if there’s enough demand,” said Hoe Lee Leng, an
analyst at RHB Capital Bhd., who described the 5.2 million ton
figure for total stockpile capacity as a surprise as it’s higher
than she had previously thought. Demand for palm oil has
declined in line with the global slowdown, she said.  Dompok said Oct. 12 that the government will cut the export
duty on the crude variety and abolish a duty-free shipment quota
from 2013. The new rates will range from 4.5 percent to 8.5
percent, rising as prices climb from 2,250 ringgit ($734) a ton
to 3,600 ringgit. The existing rate is 23 percent.  Palm oil for December delivery fell 2.7 percent to 2,432
ringgit a ton on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange at 5:44 p.m.
in  Kuala Lumpur . Last month, futures dropped 16 percent, the
biggest drop since October 2008. The most-active price touched
2,230 ringgit on Oct. 3, the lowest level since November 2009.  Selling Price  The export-tax changes announced in Malaysia may be
negative for planters as they may get a lower average selling
price, while they may benefit refining companies, according to
HwangDBS. The issue of remaining space “is urgent as there may
not be any spare storage capacity,” it said.  The planned changes should have been introduced immediately
“as the palm-oil inventory is already at record high levels,”
OSK Investment Bank Bhd. said in a report dated today. The
sliding scale of rates made sense as it will encourage exports
if prices are low, helping to keep inventory in check, OSK said.  Reserves in Malaysia may reach 3 million tons by January,
according to a forecast on Sept. 23 from Dorab Mistry, a
director at Godrej International Ltd. The country’s output may
be 18 million tons this year, he said then. The commodity is
used in foods and biofuels.  In  Indonesia , the largest producer, there is storage
capacity for about 4 million tons, Deputy Trade Minister Bayu Krisnamurthi told reporters on Oct. 12. Of that total amount,
about 70 percent to 75 percent is being used, Krisnamurthi said.  “It is important to maintain adequate supply of edible
oils for the world market at affordable prices,” Minister
Dompok told the conference. “I am optimistic that palm oil is
poised to meet this challenge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  