-- Alfa Posts Profit as Strengthening Peso Lowers Debt Costs
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-10-18T21:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/alfa-posts-profit-as-strengthening-peso-lowers-debt-costs.html
Alfa SAB (ALFAA) , which controls Mexico’s
largest publicly traded petrochemical company, posted a third-
quarter profit as a stronger peso lowered the cost of its debt
held in dollars.  Net income was $211 million, compared with a loss of $39
million a year earlier, Alfa said today in a statement. Revenue
slipped 1.5 percent to $3.84 billion.  Alfa, based in San Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico, holds almost
all of its $3 billion  net debt  in dollars, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Under Mexican accounting rules, companies
must record gains or losses on liabilities in foreign currencies
based on exchange fluctuations. The peso rose almost 4 percent
against the dollar in the three months through Sept. 30.  “The increase in net income reflects the strength of
Alfa’s operations plus exchange gains,” the company said in the
statement.  Consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, or Ebitda, rose 11 percent to $476 million,
Alfa said.  Alfa shares rose 2.6 percent to 24.17 pesos at the close in
Mexico City.  Sales at  Alpek SAB (ALPEKA) , Alfa’s publicly traded petrochemical
division, fell 13 percent to $1.8 billion from $2.07 billion a
year earlier, Alfa said today. The unit’s Ebitda fell 13 percent
to $190 million because of lower profit margins at its
caprolactam business and “non-recurring events,” including a
one-month outage at a major customer’s plant.  Negative Reaction  “We expect a negative short term reaction” to Alpek’s
results,  Vanessa Quiroga , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG
in Mexico City, wrote in a e-mailed note to investors.  Alpek fell 3 percent to 33.58 pesos.  Alfa’s auto parts division, Nemak, reported a 16 percent
increase in revenue, helped by the June acquisition of J.L.
French Automotive Castings Inc., an aluminum components producer
based in Sheboygan,  Wisconsin .  Sigma, Alfa’s food products unit, posted a 2.4 percent
increase in sales.  Alfa may seek to refinance debt of $600 million at Alpek,
$300 million at Nemak and as much as $250 million at its Alestra
telecommunications unit, Alfa Chief Financial Officer Ramon Leal
said on a conference call with reporters.  Refinancing efforts may gain speed later this year or early
next year depending on market conditions. Nemak, the world’s
largest independent producer of aluminum heads and blocks, may
issue seven- to 10-year dollar bonds, its first dollar debt,
according to Enrique Flores, a spokesman for Alfa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in  Mexico  City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  