-- Alzheimer’s Plaques May Be Bigger Risks Than Gene, Study Says
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2012-10-15T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/alzheimer-s-plaques-may-be-bigger-risks-than-gene-study-says.html
People with plaques in the brain
associated with  Alzheimer’s disease  may have a greater risk for
cognitive impairment than those who have a  gene  tied to the
dementia-causing illness, Australian researchers found.  In a study of 141 healthy subjects, those with clumps of
amyloid beta plaques in their brains at the start of the study
had as much as a 20 percent greater decline in memory and
thinking over an 18-month period than those with fewer plaques.
The research also showed that patients with the gene linked to
Alzheimer’s, called ApoE4, had a greater mental decline, though
having the gene didn’t alter the decline related to the plaques.  The findings, published today in the journal  Neurology ,
suggest that brain plaques may be a more important factor in
determining Alzheimer’s risk than the gene, said Yen Ying Lim at
 Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health  in  Melbourne ,
who led the study. More than a century after it was first
identified, scientists have yet to find a cause or a cure for
the memory-robbing disease that afflicts 36 million people
worldwide.  “If you have high amyloid, whether you have the gene or
not seems to not really affect that,” Lim said in an interview.
“This could provide us with a platform to begin to investigate
whether drugs designed to stop amyloid accumulation in the brain
can actually prevent people from getting to the more severe
stages of the disease.”  An estimated 36 million people suffer from Alzheimer’s
disease and the figure is projected to increase to 115 million
people by 2050 by a nonprofit group  American Health Assistance
Foundation .  Experimental Drugs  Drug companies including  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ,  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc (GSK) , Elan Corp. and  Prana Biotechnology Ltd. (PBT)  are racing to
develop drugs that target beta amyloid plaques.  On Oct. 8, Lilly reported that its Alzheimer’s treatment,
solanezumab, slowed  memory loss  and cognitive decline in early-
stage patients by about 30 percent. The findings offered the
first evidence that a medication may hamper the course of the
disease, researchers said.  The study reported today involved healthy adults with an
average age of 76 years old who were free of problems in memory
and thinking. They were tracked for 18 months using computer-
based cognitive tests based on playing card games and
remembering word lists. They also underwent PET brain scanning
and were tested for the ApoE4 gene, which is found in about half
of Alzheimer’s patients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in  Tokyo  at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  