-- S. Africa Gold Strike Talks Fail With 50% of Output Shut
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-10-15T15:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/anglogold-gold-fields-wage-increase-talks-end-unresolved-1-.html
Africa’s largest gold producers will
pursue legal remedies instead of continuing talks with unions
after South African strikes widened, idling half of the nation’s
output of the metal, the Solidarity union said.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (AU) ,  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  and  Harmony Gold
Mining Co. (HAR)  will “look at a new negotiating model once order and
stability is restored,” and won’t raise an earlier offer to
workers, Gideon du Plessis, the head of Solidarity, said by
mobile phone today. He commented after talks between the Chamber
of Mines industry body and unions including the largest, the
National Union of Mineworkers, or NUM.  Platinum, iron ore and chrome mines have also been
disrupted by stoppages as miners bypassed unions to demand
above-inflation pay increases in South Africa, where consumer
prices rose by 5 percent in August. More than 44 people have
been killed as associated protests turned violent. The nation’s
sovereign rating was cut last week by Standard & Poor’s, which
cited concern that strikes are causing political and social
unrest and adding pressure on government spending.  Workers resumed an unauthorized strike at the East section
of Gold Fields’ Kloof-Driefontein Complex late yesterday, the
company said. Production at the entire complex,  Africa ’s largest
gold mining operation, has now been suspended as about 19,500 of
the complex’s 26,700 workers are on strike, it said.  ‘Extremely Unfortunate’  “The current impasse is extremely unfortunate, not only
for the industry and its employees, but also for future growth
and development in South Africa, given the critical role that
gold mining plays in our country’s economic development,” Elize Strydom, the mines chamber’s senior executive for employer
relations, said in an e-mailed statement.  Workers last week rejected gold producers’ offer to raise
pay this year by more than levels agreed to earlier. All of
AngloGold’s local operations were halted by wildcat strikes by
Sept. 25. The company, the world’s third-largest gold producer,
is losing 30,000 to 32,000 ounces a week.  AngloGold produced about 306,000 ounces in South Africa in
the first quarter. Gold Fields’ KDC and Beatrix mines produced
about 328,900 ounces, while Harmony’s Kusasalethu mine, also on
strike, yielded 39,256 ounces. The nation’s gold output was 1.35
million ounces in the quarter, according to the chamber. It was
the fifth-largest gold producing country in 2010, GFMS Ltd. data
show.  The NUM, which has been trying to regain control of workers
who started their own, unauthorized strikes, called today for
employers to resume talks.  Inflame Situation  “Dismissals would not be a solution to the current
challenges facing the industry and it would only serve to fuel
emotions that are already high and inflame the situation
further,” the NUM said in an e-mailed statement.  Gold producers had offered to scrap entry-level wages, bump
workers up to the next band of pay and to award other workers an
additional 1.5 percent to 2 percent pay increase. The companies
had agreed last year to boost their pay by between 7.5 percent
and 10 percent for 2012.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the world’s largest producer
of the metal, fired 12,000 employees on Oct. 5 for striking
illegally. Stoppages at its mines in South Africa have idled
more than a fifth of global platinum output.  Sishen Stopped  At Sishen, South Africa’s biggest iron-ore operation, the
Labour Court ordered that a group of 120 miners must leave a
dump where they’ve been stationed with about 3.3 billion rand
($377 million) of machinery they seized, said Gert Schoeman, a
spokesman for  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s  Kumba Iron Ore (KIO)  unit, which
runs the mine.  The workers have been on an unprotected strike, where
resolution processes required by labor law haven’t been
followed, since Oct. 3. They had been given until noon to report
for disciplinary action, Schoeman said. The group, which
previously numbered as many as 300, had taken equipment
including bulldozers and 88 haul trucks, bringing work to a
halt.  South Africa’s longest widespread mining strike was in
August 1987, when 250,000 workers across the gold and coal
mining industries stopped work for three weeks, according to
AngloGold.  Gold Fields declined for a second day, losing 0.7 percent
to 105.95 rand by the close in Johannesburg.  Sympathy Strike  Meanwhile, most truck drivers returned to work today after
a three-week strike, Vincent Masoga, a spokesman for the South
African Transport and Allied Workers’ Union, said by mobile
phone. A sympathy strike by port and rail workers planned for
today was called off after drivers won an average annual pay
increase of 8.7 percent for three years, Masoga said.  The South African Municipal Workers Union is consulting its
more than 200,000 members on whether to go on strike to push for
pay to be standardized across the country and brought in line
with private-sector wages, said union spokesman Tahir Sema. The
union expects a decision by the end of the week.  Workers in the North West and Limpopo provinces have staged
protests to highlight their demands, while employees of
Johannesburg’s rapid bus transport system have already started a
strike, Sema said by phone from Johannesburg today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  