-- Manufacturing in New York Region Contracts for Third Month
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-10-15T13:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/manufacturing-in-new-york-region-contracts-for-third-month-1-.html
Manufacturing in the New York region
contracted for a third straight month in October as shipments
and employment declined, indicating the economy will get less
support from factories.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
 index  rose to minus 6.2 from minus 10.4 in September, which was
the lowest since April 2009. The median forecast of 46
economists in a Bloomberg survey called for minus 4. Readings of
less than zero signal contraction in New York, northern New
Jersey and southern  Connecticut .  Manufacturing, a mainstay of the three-year economic
expansion, has been cooling as overseas demands slows. Companies
have also been curbing investment on concern that Congress will
fail to avert more than $600 billion of automatic federal tax
increases and spending cuts scheduled to go into effect early
next year, slowing the economy.  “Manufacturing is stuck in neutral,” said Thomas Simons,
an economist at Jefferies Group Inc. in New York, which had
forecast minus 6 for the so-called Empire State index.  Another report today showed retail  sales  in the U.S. rose
more than projected in September, reflecting broad-based gains
that indicate household spending helped bolster economic growth
last quarter.  The 1.1 percent increase followed a revised 1.2 percent
increase in August that was the biggest since October 2010 and
larger than previously reported, Commerce Department figures
showed. The median forecast of 77 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 0.8 percent rise.  Stocks, Treasuries  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.3 percent to
1,432.63 at 9:34 a.m. in New York. The yield on the benchmark
10-year Treasury note rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 1.67 percent.  Bloomberg  survey  estimates for the Empire State index
ranged from 5.0 to minus 12.  The gauge of new orders increased to minus 9 this month
from minus 14 in September, which was the lowest since November
2010. A measure of shipments dropped to minus 6.4 from 2.8.  The employment measure fell to minus 1.1, the worst this
year, from 4.3 in September.  The index of prices paid declined to 17.2 from 19.2, while
prices received fell to 4.3 from 5.3.  Less Optimistic  Factory executives in the New York Fed’s district were less
optimistic about the future. The gauge measuring the outlook six
months from now fell to 19.4 from 27.2.  Manufacturing makes up about 12 percent of the U.S. economy
and about 6 percent of New York’s.  Slowing global growth is cutting into overseas demand for
U.S.-made goods. The International Monetary Fund this month cut
its global growth forecasts as the euro area’s debt crisis
intensifies and warned of even slower expansion unless officials
in the U.S. and  Europe  address threats to their economies.  The world economy will grow 3.3 percent this year, the
slowest since the 2009 recession, and 3.6 percent next year, the
IMF said, compared with July predictions of 3.5 percent in 2012
and 3.9 percent in 2013.  The U.S. trade deficit widened in August as exports
dropped, Commerce Department figures showed last week. The gap
grew 4.1 percent to $44.2 billion from $42.5 billion in July,
Exports decreased to the lowest level since February.  Cutting Estimates  More companies are cutting estimates after U.S. gross
domestic product expanded at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the
second quarter, down from 4.1 percent in the final three months
of last year.  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , the second-largest maker of PC
processors, based in Sunnyvale,  California , cut its third-
quarter revenue forecast last week, citing weak demand across
all product lines.  Caterpillar Inc. in Peoria,  Illinois , cut its forecast for
2015 earnings on Sept. 24 after commodity producers reduced
capital expenditures. The world’s biggest construction and
mining equipment maker is due to announce results on Oct. 22.  “We see fairly anemic and modest growth through 2015,”
Caterpillar Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman 
said in a presentation to analysts that day at the MINExpo
industry conference in Las Vegas.  At Richardson Electronics Ltd., a Lafox, Illinois, maker of
semiconductors and other components, customers are being
cautious with orders and making do with parts they already have,
Chief Executive Officer Edward Richardson said.  Pickup Seen  “The whole economy is what I would call nervous,”
Richardson said on an Oct. 11 earnings call. Customers
anticipate a pickup at the beginning of next year, he said.  Economists monitor the New York report and Philadelphia Fed
factory readings, due on Oct. 18, for clues about the Institute
for Supply Management figures on U.S. manufacturing during the
month.  The Fed in September announced a third round of large-scale
asset purchases and extended the prospect of near-zero interest
rates until mid-2015 in a bid to boost growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  