-- Apple Adds Amazon’s Stasior for Siri Voice-Recognition Group
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-10-15T22:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/apple-hires-amazon-s-stasior-to-run-siri-voice-recognition-group.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  hired  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) 
executive William Stasior to lead its Siri voice-recognition
software group.  Stasior, who had run a unit of Seattle-based Amazon
handling search and related advertising, will head the group
that is building out the voice-activated personal assistant that
Apple added to its iPhones, iPads and iPod Touch devices last
year, said Trudy Muller, a spokeswoman for Apple.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, introduced Siri
after buying a startup of the same name in 2010. The software
understands users’ questions and provides answers by voice and
Web links on a device’s screen. Members of the Siri team that
came over in the acquisition have since left Apple, including
former CEO Dag Kittlaus and co-founder Adam Cheyer.  The personal assistant was the most heavily marketed
feature of the iPhone 4S, with Apple hiring actors including
Samuel L. Jackson and  John Malkovich  for commercials. Some
customers have complained that the software doesn’t work as well
as advertised, with one even filing a lawsuit.  Last month, Apple added to the technology with the
introduction of its most recent mobile operating system, called
iOS 6, building in the ability to search for sports scores,
movie times and make restaurant reservations with voice
commands.  Sally Fouts, a spokeswoman for Amazon, declined to comment.
Stasior’s move was earlier reported by  AllThingsD .  At Amazon, Stasior was in charge of developing new search
and advertising technology. The unit had about 200 employees,
according to a copy of his  resume . A graduate of Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, he previously worked for search-engine
creator AltaVista and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  