-- Marriott Sues Miami Beach Hotel Owner Over Takeover Attempt
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-10-16T14:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/marriott-sues-miami-beach-hotel-owner-over-takeover-attempt-1-.html
Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , the
largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, sued the owner of the
Eden Roc Renaissance Hotel in  Miami Beach  over accusations it
attempted a hostile takeover of the hotel.  The suit accuses Miami-based Eden Roc of trying
unsuccessfully to oust Renaissance Hotel Management Co. as
manager of the hotel during an “egregious raid in the pre-dawn
hours” on Oct. 14, according to a complaint filed yesterday in
 New York  State Supreme Court in  Manhattan .  Marriott is seeking injunctions preventing Eden Roc from
taking any action to remove or replace Renaissance as manager of
the hotel and interfering with its management and operation,
according to the court documents.  “While Eden Roc’s initial hostile takeover attempt was
unsuccessful due in part to timely police intervention, Eden Roc
has threatened to try again and may do so at any moment, if the
requested relief is not granted,” according to the complaint.  Eden Roc LLLP sued Bethesda, Maryland-based Marriott and
its Renaissance Hotel Management unit in the same court in April
over accusations Marriott mismanaged the property after it
invested more than $300 million in the hotel, including a $240
million renovation.  Restraining Order  Eden Roc said in an Oct. 14 statement that an affiliated
operating unit had taken over management of the hotel.  In a separate statement yesterday, Todd E. Soloway, an
attorney with Pryor Cashman who represents the ownership group,
said Justice Melvin Schweitzer had issued a temporary
restraining order permitting Renaissance to continue to manage
the hotel “while the court considers the merits of the parties’
arguments.”  “While Eden Roc disagrees with the court’s order, it will
abide by it pending further court order,” Soloway said in the
statement.  Schweitzer’s order couldn’t be immediately confirmed in
court records.  The 21-floor, 631-room art deco hotel, located in Miami
Beach, opened in 1956 and has hosted celebrities including
 Elizabeth Taylor , Katherine Hepburn and  Humphrey Bogart ,
according to its  website .  The hotel, which was featured in several episodes of the
1950s television show “I Love Lucy,” was designed by architect
Morris Lapidus, who also designed the neighboring  Fontainebleau .  The case is Marriott International Inc. v. Eden Roc LLLP,
653590/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 