-- LaSalle Investment Management to Triple European Property Loans
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-10-15T14:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/lasalle-investment-management-to-triple-european-property-loans.html
LaSalle Investment Management  Inc.
started lending to European real estate companies three years
ago and said its loans outstanding will triple by the end of
2013 as the firm takes advantage of the banking industry’s
retrenchment.  The amount of European property debt managed by the unit of
Chicago-based broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  will probably climb
to about 1 billion euros from 300 million euros now, said Claus
Thomas, head of client services in the region at LaSalle
Investment Management. That may rise to 5 billion euros in five
years, he said in an interview in Munich.  “We expect to see a continually growing debt segment in
our asset mix,” Thomas said. “We see this as a long-term
trend.”  Non-banks such as insurance companies and asset management
firms are increasingly making real estate loans as traditional
lenders pull back to comply with Basel III regulations.  European banks, which have as much as 2.4 trillion euros of
loans outstanding to property companies, will slash that volume
by about 25 percent as they work to meet Basel III’s stricter
capital requirements,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  wrote in March. The number
of funds raising money for real estate lending in  Europe  rose 66
percent in the first six months of 2012 compared with a year
earlier, according to research firm Indirex Ltd.  LaSalle plans to focus its investments on U.K. and German
mezzanine debt next year and will target an annual income return
of 7 percent to 9 percent, Thomas said. The company has a 300
million-euro fund invested in U.K. assets. Clients are likely to
include European pension funds and insurers, he said.  LaSalle Investment Management has about 37.2 billion euros
globally invested in real estate, with about 13.9 billion euros
in Europe, according to Thomas. Most of its properties are
stores, offices and hotels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 