-- Ashley Cole to Leave Chelsea at End of Season: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-15T05:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/ashley-cole-to-leave-chelsea-at-end-of-season-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Contract Rejected  Chelsea left-back Ashley Cole will leave the club at the
end of the season after rejecting a contract extension, the
 Daily Mail reported .  Cole, 31, is adamant he will not accept the offer of a one-
year deal and is preparing to speak with European clubs
including Real Madrid and Paris Saint-Germain in January, the
Mail added.  England Changes  England manager Roy Hodgson will make as many as six
changes to his lineup for tomorrow’s World Cup qualifier in
Poland, the  Guardian reported .  Hodgson will recall regular captain Steven Gerrard and
first-choice right-back Glen Johnson after they were suspended
for the 5-0 win against San Marino, the Guardian said. Joleon Lescott, James Milner and Jermain Defoe are also likely to
return, while Cole is expected replace Leighton Baines at left-
back, the newspaper added.  Jenkinson Jettisoned  The Football Association abandoned plans to call up Arsenal
full-back Carl Jenkinson for the match in  Poland  after realizing
the former Finland under-21 player needed three weeks’
international clearance from world governing body FIFA, the
 Independent reported .  Hodgson was about to bring Jenkinson, whose mother is
Finnish, into the squad before discovering that he was not yet
eligible, the newspaper added.  Spurs Scouts  Tottenham Hotspur is scouting Feyenoord midfielder Jordy
Clasie, who has played twice for the Netherlands and is being
watched by Juventus and Roma as well, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Spurs scouts also have been looking at Borussia
Moenchengladbach midfielder Patrick Herrman, while Chelsea is
having Lazio midfielder Senad Lulic watched, the Mirror added.  Anfield Upgrade  Liverpool will today announce its intention to expand
Anfield into a 60,000-seat arena after scrapping plans for a new
state-of-the-art stadium, the  Daily Express reported .  Liverpool City Council will unveil a blueprint for the 154
million-pound ($247 million) regeneration and, as part of that,
the Reds will confirm that their preference is now to redevelop
the existing ground rather than move to a new facility, the
Express added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  