-- Attention Deficit Disorder Needs Life-Long Treatment, Study Says
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-10-15T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/attention-deficit-disorder-needs-life-long-treatment-study-says.html
Attention deficit hyperactivity
disorder doesn’t disappear as children grow older, according to
a study that found harmful life-long effects that suggest
treatment needs to continue into adulthood.  The study, reported in today’s  Archives of General
Psychiatry , followed 271 patients for 33 years, the longest any
research has tracked the disorder, the authors wrote. Men
diagnosed with ADHD as children had less education as adults,
higher rates of divorce and substance abuse, and they spent more
time in jail, the research found.  ADHD, which causes inattentiveness, over-activity and
impulsiveness, is diagnosed in as many as 7 percent of children
and 4 percent of adults, according to the  American Academy of
Child Adolescent Psychiatry website . As people grow into
adulthood, they tend to abandon treatments that helped control
the disorder when they were younger, said lead study author
Rachel Klein. That’s a mistake, she said.  “The results point to the importance of not restricting
treatment of ADHD to childhood, and to being vigilant to the
signs of serious rule breaking and drug abuse, which led to the
worst adult function,” said  Klein , a professor of child and
adolescent psychiatry at NYU Langone Medical Center in  New York ,
in a telephone interview.  The study involved 135 white men diagnosed with  ADHD  around
age eight and 136 men without a childhood diagnosis. Almost one
in four patients among those diagnosed as children continued to
show symptoms in adulthood, the report said.  Data Differences  About 31 percent of those with ADHD didn’t finish high
school, compared with 4.4 percent in the comparison group. They
made about $40,000 a year less on average in their jobs, and
they were about three times more likely to have been divorced,
be involved in substance abuse or to have spent time in jail,
according to the study.  Adults often don’t like to admit they have ADHD,
particularly in the workplace, because they believe it could
affect how they are perceived at work, said  Ruth Hughes , chief
executive officer of Landover, Maryland-based Children and
Adults with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder, or  CHADD ,
a non-profit support group, in a telephone interview.  The research “really clarifies that this is a serious
disorder,” Hughes said. “ADHD does have long-term effects. It
is a lifespan disorder; it doesn’t go away. ”  The men studied by Klein and her colleagues were all about
41 years old. Those in the ADHD group were all treated as
children, Klein said, and joined the study after seeking
treatment.  Drug Treatments  Medicines for ADHD include amphetamines like Shire Plc’s
Adderall XR, as well as other drugs like Novartis AG’s Ritalin,
Johnson & Johnson’s Concerta, Shire’s Vyvanse and Intuniv and
Eli Lilly & Co.’s Strattera. Treatments also include parent and
child education, behavior management and counseling.  Today’s study was funded by grants from the U.S. National
Institutes of Health in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Whatever disadvantage the adults studied had as adults
“started off as adolescents,”  NYU’s Klein said. “If you
can’t focus, if you can’t spend time reading, if you can’t
conform to usual demands, if you can’t resist temptation and do
what you feel like doing rather than what’s expected of you,
which is a characteristic, you’re at a disadvantage in this
world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  