-- Aurubis Says German Construction Helping European Copper Use
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-10-15T17:54:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/aurubis-says-german-construction-helping-european-copper-use-1-.html
Europe ’s copper demand is getting
support from growth of about 2 percent this year in Germany’s
construction industry, according to  Aurubis AG (NDA) , the world’s
second-biggest refined copper producer.  Copper demand won’t pick up until the start of 2013, Peter Willbrandt, chief executive officer, said in an interview in
London today. Aurubis’s wire rod sales fell 20 percent in the
year ended Sept. 30 and sales of strips, sheets and plates were
unchanged from the year-earlier period, he said.  “We expect construction, the electronic industry and the
renewable energy will foster demand,” Willbrandt said of
Germany. “Demand from the German automotive sector is still
good.”  Hamburg-based Aurubis cut the premium for buyers in the
region by $4 to $86 a ton in June and will keep the fee at that
level next year to support demand, Michaela Hessling, a company
spokeswoman, said Oct. 8.  Germany  was the third-biggest copper
consumer in 2011, according to London-based researcher CRU.  Aurubis produced 1.147 million metric tons of copper
cathodes in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30 and plans to
keep output unchanged this year, Willbrandt said. It’s
operating at full capacity for cathode output, he said.  Copper treatment and refining charges for next year will
probably increase to more than $70 a ton and 7 cents a pound and
even close to $80 a ton and 8 cents a pound, Willbrandt said.
They are now $70 a ton and 7 cents a pound, he said.  “There weren’t that many strikes, there are new mines
coming on stream,” Willbrandt said. “The capacity of smelters
is increasing but the utilization will be at a lower level so we
will see a better concentrate supply.”  Willbrandt is in  London  for LME week, an annual event
during which supply contracts are discussed. He expects
transactions for deliveries next year to conclude in the next
few weeks. Consumers are “trying to have as low copper
inventories as possible” and are ordering metal on a very
short-term notice, he said.  Copper  stockpiles  monitored by the London Metal Exchange
dropped 43 percent this year, exchange data showed today. About
51 percent of stockpiles are in the U.S., while European
stockpiles are down 63 percent this year.  “Inventories on the LME are very low in Europe,”
Willbrandt said. “I cannot see that this situation will change
in the next couple of months.” Long waiting times for metal at
warehouses monitored by the London Metal Exchange is “an issue
in the metals market,” he said.  Codelco, of  Chile , is the largest refined copper producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at +44-20-7673-2967 or
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net 
Maria Kolesnikova at +44-20-7073-3306 or
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  