-- Austria's Biggest Bank Bailout Wasn't Needed, Court Says
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-10-15T10:54:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/austria-s-biggest-bank-bailout-wasn-t-needed-court-says.html
Austria ’s most expensive bank
rescue, the nationalization of Kommunalkredit Austria AG in
2008, could have been avoided, the nation’s audit court told
lawmakers in a review of the deal.  The  Finance Ministry  didn’t properly analyze whether the
impact of the Kommunalkredit’s collapse on the industry and
broader economy justified the bailout, the Rechnungshof audit
court, a parliament-appointed body supervising the government’s
spending, said in a report today. A bankruptcy in 2008 wouldn’t
have caused the insolvency of its owner,  Oesterreichische
Volksbanken AG (VBPS) , it said.  “No comprehensible considerations by the Federal Ministry
of Finance about possible alternatives are documented,” the
court in Vienna said. “According to the files presented, a
possible insolvency of Kommunalkredit wouldn’t have put the
existence of Volksbanken AG at risk.”  Austria lost its AAA credit rating at  Standard & Poor’s  in
January because of bank bailout risks. Kommunalkredit, a lender
to local government that strayed into more risky areas of
business such as writing default swaps on  Greece , and KA Finanz
AG, which took on the bank’s riskier assets, have cost Austria
more than 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion) since 2008, the most
among banks that received state support.  The Finance Ministry stands by its decision, spokeswoman
Daniela Kinz said in an e-mailed statement today. The bailout
was needed to guarantee financial stability and safeguard
Austria’s credit rating, she said.  Financial Backing  While Kommunalkredit, which the government plans to sell,
won’t need more state aid, KA Finanz will need financial support
for several more years, the court said.  Volksbanken, which co-owned Kommunalkredit with Franco-
Belgian lender  Dexia SA (DEXB) , was partly nationalized earlier this
year. The Austrian government took a 43 percent stake after
writing down by 700 million euros the extra aid Volksbanken had
received in 2009, following the Kommunalkredit nationalization.  The cost of nationalizing Kommunalkredit may yet be
surpassed by costs for Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG,
which was taken over by the state and needs to top up its
capital before the end of the year.  Moody’s Investors Service cut the outlook on Austria’s
government debt to “negative” in February, citing risks to the
country’s finances of rescuing banks. Moody’s may lower the
country’s AAA rating should its lenders require a second
bailout, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  