-- Bank Lending Stress Holds at Five-Year Low Before EU Heads Meet
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-10-15T14:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/bank-lending-stress-holds-at-five-year-low-in-euro-money-market.html
A measure of stress in  Europe ’s
short-term interbank lending market held near a five-year low as
the region’s leaders prepare for a summit in Brussels.  The difference between the euro interbank offered rate and
overnight index swaps, known as the Euribor-OIS spread, was 12
basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, at 3:26 p.m. in  London ,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The gauge fell to 11.8 basis
points on Oct. 11, the tightest since August 2007.  European Union leaders meet on Oct. 18-19 as  Greece  tries
to strike a deal on economic policies and  Spain  resists asking
for a bailout. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble ’s
comment yesterday that a Greek default “will not happen”
stoked optimism that EU leaders can contain the debt crisis.  “The spread tightening is an indication of better
conditions in the  interbank market ,” said Alessandro Giansanti,
a senior strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “Expectations
that the meetings of Europe’s leaders in Brussels might go some
way to resolve the crisis is helping the spread to tighten.”  Banks bid for 90 billion euros ($117 billion) at the
European Central Bank’s seven-day refinancing auction on Oct. 9.
That’s the lowest in five months and  down from  as much as 292
billion euros in December before the ECB pumped more than $1
trillion euros of cheap loans into the financial system.  The  volume  of overnight lending as measured by the European
Banking Federation in Brussels rose to 31 billion euros on Sept.
26, the highest since April.  ‘Less Dependent’  “We’ve recently seen a reduction in the takeup of the
weekly refinancing operation at the ECB, and the volume of
overnight lending has soared showing banks are less dependent,”
Giansanti said.  The cost for European banks to borrow in dollars was little
changed. The three-month cross-currency  basis swap  was 25 basis
points below Euribor. The one-year basis swap was little changed
at 26 basis points below Euribor.  Three-month Euribor, the rate banks say they see each other
lending at in euros, was set at a record low 0.209 percent from
0.210 percent on Oct. 12. The benchmark is derived from a daily
survey of banks for the European Banking Federation.  The EBF’s euro overnight index average, or Eonia, of
unsecured lending deals was set at 0.092 percent on Oct. 12 from
0.095 percent the day before. The Eonia swap, an estimate of
average overnight borrowing costs over the next three months,
was 9 basis points from 8.8 on Oct. 12.  Lenders increased  overnight deposits  at the  European
Central Bank  to 260 billion euros on Oct. 12 from 243 billion
euros the day before.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  