-- Banks Sued by U.S. Homeowners Over Rigging of Libor Benchmark
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-10-15T09:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/banks-sued-by-u-s-homeowners-over-rigging-of-libor-benchmark.html
U.S. homeowners filed a lawsuit
against 12 banks, including Barclays Bank Plc and  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , claiming that manipulation of the benchmark Libor lending
rate made their mortgage repayments more expensive.  Traders at banks in  Europe  and North America such as  UBS
AG (UBSN) ,  Bank of America Corp.  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
“unjustly enriched themselves” by manipulating the rate,
according to the complaint. That allowed them to increase the
payments by homeowners on adjustable rate loans, boosting
profit, according to the lawsuit.  Libor, or the London interbank offered rate, is the
benchmark for more than $300 trillion of securities and loans.
The rate is calculated from a daily poll carried out by Thomson
Reuters Corp. on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association, a
London-based lobby group. Lenders are asked to estimate how much
it would cost to borrow from each other for different periods
and in different currencies.  The other banks being sued in the U.S. District Court in
New York are  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Rabobank International Holdings BV, 
Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY) , Deutsche Bank AG and  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , according to the
filing.  The plaintiffs asked for class-action status, a jury trial,
cash compensation and an order permanently blocking the banks
from rigging Libor. Class-action status allows plaintiffs more
leverage in negotiations with defendants. Lead plaintiffs direct
the litigation on behalf of the group, determining strategy
while usually reaping the largest share of any verdict or
settlement.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-biggest lender by assets, is
the only bank to have settled with regulators over the rigging
of Libor. The London-based company paid a record 290 million
pound ($469 million) fine in June. Chief Executive Officer
Robert Diamond and Chairman Marcus Agius resigned in the
aftermath.  It is the first lawsuit filed by homeowners, the Financial
Times reported earlier today without saying where it got the
information. The five lead plaintiffs include Annie Bell Adams,
a pensioner whose home was repossessed, the FT reported.  The case is Adams et al. v.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  et al.,
12-cv-07461, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 