-- Batista’s $40 Billion Rio Port Wavers on Customer Delays
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-10-15T20:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/batista-40-billion-port-wavers-on-deal-delays-corporate-brazil.html
Billionaire  Eike Batista  is
struggling to reach his goal of luring $40 billion to an
industrial port complex in Rio de Janeiro state after Nissan
Motor Co. pulled out,  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  delayed a project and
talks with  Ternium SA (TX)  failed to produce a deal.  A preliminary accord between Ternium, the steelmaker
indirectly controlled by billionaire Paolo Rocca’s family, and
Batista’s logistics unit  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3)  to build a mill at the
Acu super-port project expired Sept. 30. Nissan chose to set up
its $1.4 billion unit elsewhere in Rio state, and Anglo delayed
by a year the start of its Minas-Rio project, which includes
completing an iron-ore terminal at the port.  The Acu port project is the centerpiece of Batista’s plan
to integrate his commodities and oil empire and tap Chinese
demand for raw materials from  Brazil . Batista vowed last year to
make Acu the world’s third-biggest port by attracting
investments from oil-storage facilities to steelworks and car
plants.  “Who’s going to carry out a project like that these days
when you have a steel supply surplus?”  Pedro Galdi , chief
strategist at brokerage SLW Corretora, said by phone from  Sao
Paulo , referring to the proposed Ternium steel project. “Nobody
is going to want to set up a mill and then end up with the white
elephant.”  LLX said in an e-mailed response to questions that
negotiations with Ternium are in an “advanced” stage and that
about 70 memorandums of understanding have been signed with
companies interested in setting up units or move freight through
the Acu superport.  EBX Group Co., the holding company for most of Batista’s
assets, referred questions to LLX. A press officer for Ternium
in  Buenos Aires , who declined to be named because of corporate
policy, said the company won’t comment.  Americas’ Largest  Batista, Brazil’s richest man, said in an interview in  New
York  on March 14, 2011, that Acu will become the largest port in
the Americas with capacity to handle 350 million metric tons of
iron ore, oil, steel and other products annually. Batista was
counting on manufacturers such as Luxembourg-based Ternium and
Nissan, based in Yokohama,  Japan , setting up plants at Acu to
transform iron ore and other raw materials into steel, cars and
electronics that would then be shipped through the port.  Ternium and  Tenaris SA (TEN) , both controlled by the Rocca
family’s  Techint Group , last year agreed to pay about 5 billion
reais ($2.5 billion) for a stake allowing them to join the group
that controls  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA , known as
Usiminas, Brazil’s  second-biggest  steelmaker by output.  Likely Delay  Ternium Chief Financial Officer Pablo Brizzio said Aug. 1
the steelmaker is reevaluating the Acu port project and will
likely delay its decision.  “The possibility of getting iron ore into this port has
been delayed,” Brizzio told analysts in a conference call. That
“will lead to a delay in the possibility of us taking a
decision on that project,” he said.  “We sense it has more than likely been shelved for the
foreseeable future,” HSBC Holdings Plc’s analyst Jonathan Brandt said in an Oct. 4 report.  Ternium is among the companies bidding for ThyssenKrupp
AG’s  Rio de Janeiro  steel plant, according to two people
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified because
the talks are private. The German steelmaker said in May it may
sell the plant, along with U.S. assets as part of “strategic
options.” ThyssenKrupp declined to comment on the number or
names of bidders.  Start of Operations  Rio de Janeiro-based LLX, which has invested 2.9 billion
reais in the complex since 2007, delayed the start of operations
to next year from the  second-half  of 2012. It has signed
contracts with companies including London-based miner Anglo
American, oil-services providers Subsea 7 SA and Technip SA.  Acu’s revenue won’t be hurt significantly in the short term
because there are other oil and mining projects still in the
works, said William Castro Alves, an analyst at brokerage XP
Investimentos.  “I don’t think the current market valuation of LLX
includes this project anymore, so a cancellation shouldn’t have
a big impact,” he said in a telephone interview from Rio.
“These investments take time. They may not happen now, but can
resume in the future.”  Shares Tumble  Shares of Batista’s commodities and energy companies
tumbled in June after his oil startup,  OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , cut production targets at its first two  oil
wells  by as much as 75 percent. The drop dragged down Batista’s
mining, logistics and shipbuilding companies on concern the
enterprises, some of which rely on OGX for revenue, will also
scale back targets. The tycoon’s net worth fell from a peak of
$34.5 billion on March 27 to $20.6 billion on Oct. 11, according
to  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  LLX rose 0.7 percent to close at 2.71 reais in Sao Paulo.
It has declined 20 percent this year.  Nissan Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said last year
that Japan’s second-biggest carmaker chose to build a plant in
Resende, also in Rio state, rather than at the Acu Port “for
cost reasons.”  David Reuter, a spokesman for Nissan’s operations in the
Americas, declined to comment on developments at Batista’s Acu
facility.  Anglo’s Project  Anglo American paid Batista-controlled companies $5.1
billion in two transactions in 2007 and 2008 for the Minas-Rio
iron-ore mine in southeastern Brazil and the right to build an
export terminal at Acu. At the time, Anglo planned to spend an
additional $2.6 billion on projects including an ore processing
plant, the terminal and a pipeline to carry iron-ore slurry to
the coast.  The completion date, which initially was expected in 2010,
has been pushed back to the second half of 2014 amid licensing
challenges, Anglo said July 27. Minas-Rio is now expected to
cost as much as $5.8 billion after the company revised costs for
the project, its largest, for at least a fourth time in
December.  The Minas-Rio delays don’t impact works at the  iron-ore 
terminal in Acu, which are advancing normally, Anglo said in an
e-mailed response to questions.  “The economic crisis impacted the  steel industry  quite a
bit,” Galdi said. “Whoever does this will certainly wait for
the market to improve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio De Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at   jattwood3@bloomberg.net  