-- Belgian Split Returns to Agenda After Local Separatist Triumph
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-10-15T07:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/belgian-split-returns-to-agenda-after-local-separatist-triumph.html
A possible breakup of  Belgium  rose
back on to the agenda after a separatist party triumphed in
local elections in Flanders, the country’s wealthier northern
region.  The head of the N-VA party, Bart  De Wever , re-emerged as a
dominant force in Belgian politics by winning election yesterday
as mayor of Antwerp, the country’s second-largest city.  De Wever, who failed to gain control of the national
government after 2010 elections, said he would use the Antwerp
mayor’s pulpit to push for more autonomy for Dutch-speaking
Flanders.  De Wever’s victory “adds uncertainty and pressure, and
darkens the Belgian horizon,” editorialized  Le Soir , the
country’s main French-language daily. “What has emerged in
Flanders in recent months has to be managed, or Bart De Wever
will dictate it. We know where he wants to go. And he’ll go
there.”  The N-VA got 37.7 percent of the votes in Antwerp, beating
the 28.6 percent of a group led by incumbent Socialist Mayor
Patrick Janssens. The N-VA was the top vote-getter in three of
the five Flemish provinces.  De Wever said the handoff of more power to Flanders cannot
wait until the next nationwide balloting in 2014. He called on
the federal government, led by French-speaking Socialist Elio Di Rupo, to embark on immediate talks over “confederal” reforms.  “Give the Flemish the system of government they’re
entitled to,” De Wever said in his victory speech. “The forces
of change have carried the day.”  De Wever was outfoxed in the record 541-day brinkmanship
that followed the 2010 national vote, which led to other Flemish
parties joining a Di Rupo-led government. It enacted a
constitutional overhaul, the sixth since 1970, that transferred
some powers to the regions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  