-- Benghazi Attack Brings Infantilizing Response
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-10-15T22:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/benghazi-attack-brings-infantilizing-response.html
Many stupid things have been
said by people who should have known better in the month
since the attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi,  Libya .  The raid -- in which heavily armed men with suspected
links to al-Qaeda killed U.S. Ambassador Christopher Stevens and three American personnel -- is being portrayed
by some Republicans as an event approaching the attacks of
Sept. 11 in importance, and by some Democrats as an
unfortunate little mishap that says absolutely nothing
about President  Barack Obama ’s competence and credibility,
or about the state of the American war on al-Qaeda and its
affiliates.  The attack could have been used to teach various
useful lessons about al-Qaeda’s resilience, about human
fallibility, about the limits of security and the
imprecision of intelligence.  Instead, in this pathologically politicized climate,
our national leadership is most interested in identifying
scapegoats to fire and points to score in advance of
elections next month.  Foolish Statements  Two of the most foolish statements about the Benghazi
attack have come from the Obama campaign’s deputy manager,
 Stephanie Cutter , and from Republican Representative
 Darrell Issa  of  California , who led a House oversight
committee hearing on the attack last week.  First up, Cutter, who said on CNN that “the entire
reason that this has become the political topic it is, is
because of  Mitt Romney  and  Paul Ryan . It’s a big part of
their stump speech and it’s reckless and irresponsible.”  An ambassador is killed and Cutter thinks that the
“entire reason” his death has become a political issue is
Mitt Romney?  It is true that early in the crisis, Romney, the
Republican presidential nominee, intervened prematurely and
inappropriately. But Cutter would have us believe that the
rules of presidential campaigning preclude candidates from
criticizing the actions of their opponents.  And members of the Obama administration have certainly
opened themselves up to criticism, first by asserting that
the attack on the consulate grew from a spontaneous
demonstration against an offensive YouTube video, then by
continuing to make this assertion long after it ceased to
be credible.  A more subtle criticism not yet fully grasped by the
Romney campaign is that the administration was predisposed
to believe that an al-Qaeda-affiliated group couldn’t have
been behind the attack because the administration had
already, according to its own public-relations team,
vanquished al-Qaeda. Obama has set al-Qaeda back
substantially -- he has done more to dismantle its upper
ranks than President  George W. Bush  did -- but in my
conversations with partisans of the administration, you’d
think the terrorist group had been reduced to three guys in
a cave with a dial-up connection. It hasn’t been.  Republicans, contra Cutter, have the right, and the
responsibility, to ask what went wrong in Benghazi,
especially because Democrats seem so uninterested in
asking. What Republicans shouldn’t do is make statements
like the one Issa made on CBS’s “Face the Nation” on Oct.
14. Issa argued that if security officials had repeatedly
requested reinforcements for U.S. diplomatic outposts in
Libya “and that’s not being heard, then it isn’t just
Ambassador Stevens who is now dead -- it’s everybody who
works throughout the  Middle East  is at risk.”  Eleven years after the Sept. 11 attacks, and 12 years
after the fatal raid on the USS Cole in Yemen, and Issa has
just realized that assignment to the Middle East might pose
risks for American government personnel!  Digging a Moat  Here’s the problem with Issa’s stunning insight: In
his desire to cast the administration as incompetent, he
does an enormous disservice to the cause of forward-leaning
diplomacy and engagement. American embassies are already
fortresses. Issa would dig a moat around them. After a
point, there’s simply no reason to dispatch diplomats to
hostile capitals if they can’t engage with actual citizens.
Risk is inherent for U.S. diplomats posted to the Middle
East.  The answer to the problem posed by the Benghazi attack
isn’t to swaddle our overseas personnel in ever more
elaborate layers of security. The answer is better
intelligence and a willingness to talk straight about risk.  Our leaders -- of both parties -- have systematically
infantilized Americans to believe that perfect security is
attainable. This is one reason the White House reacts so
defensively to any intimation that its conduct of the war
on al-Qaeda is less than perfect. It’s one reason
Republicans cynically argue that the administration is
incompetent in its prosecution of the war, and in its
mission to keep U.S. personnel alive. So long as both
parties react so small-mindedly and opportunistically to
the terrorist threat, we won’t be able to have a rational,
adult conversation about the best ways to wage this war.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials,
columns and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how  Spain  can stop
 Catalonian secession  and on  Romney’s still-missing numbers ;
 Edward Glaeser  on the  winner of the economics Nobel ;
 Michael Kinsley  on checking  candidates’ arguments  instead
of facts; William Pesek on  “Gangnam Style” and South
Korea’s economy ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on why  both candidates are
wrong on China ; Carmen M. Reinhart and Kenneth S. Rogoff on
why  U.S. financial crises  aren’t different.  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 