-- Boozy Betrayals Spark Chaos in Brilliant ‘Woolf’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-10-15T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/boozy-betrayals-wreak-havoc-in-brilliant-woolf-review.html
The children’s ditty “Who’s afraid
of the big bad wolf?” has never been delivered with such menace
as it is, slightly altered, in Edward Albee’s 1962 masterpiece.  Punctuating awkward moments during one of the most
notorious after-parties ever to inhabit the stage, the song is
first heard in the early-morning hours. A couple returns home
after a college-faculty social affair.  Their alcohol-fueled verbal jousting has already begun when
they’re visited by a younger couple new to the campus and
clueless about the nightmare they’re in for.  Flawlessly cast and paced like a marathon whose top runners
jostle for first position after a sloshy start, “Who’s Afraid
of Virginia Woolf” returns to Broadway in a splendid production
from the  Steppenwolf Theatre Company  and Pam MacKinnon.  This gifted, Chicago-based director also staged last
season’s memorable Pulitzer Prize winner, “Clybourne Park.”
With “Woolf” -- a verbal and sometimes physical slugfest that
passes its three-plus hours in what feels like a New York minute
-- she reveals as fine an attunement to a modern classic as she
has for new work.  Benign Disarray  George (Tracy Letts) and Martha (Amy Morton) are the boozy
couple who have arrived at middle age in the barracuda tank of
academe, a small liberal-arts college. They live in the benign
disarray of Todd Rosenthal’s comfy house, overstuffed with
frumpy furniture and books spilling off the shelves.  She’s the blowzy daughter of the school’s president, used
to getting her way with Daddy and having her way with new young
professors. George is the history teacher who started out full
of promise but settled into complacency. After more than two
decades, he isn’t even a full professor.  “If you existed, I’d divorce you,” Martha cracks.  Their idea of spicing up their lives is decidedly early
1960s, from bed-hopping to the consumption of an astonishing
amount of liquor.  They indulge a penchant for baiting each other, both in
private and with observers turned, in the case of Nick (Madison
Dirks) and Honey (Carrie Coon) into accomplices. George and
Martha have many secrets, chief among them an absent son about
to turn 21. They’ve agreed never to mention him in public; on
this evening, Martha’s breach of that promise opens a floodgate,
though what flows is bile and blood.  Lethal Words  Balding, bespectacled and paunchy under his dark cardigan,
Letts’s George seems a milquetoast until, crucially, he proves
himself as lethal on the rebound as his wife. Morton takes a
reverse journey, from savage wittiness to blackest remorse as
Martha’s last defenses are stripped away.  No less perfectly played are Dirks’s Nick, a biologist
seething with ambition, and Coon’s Honey, a silly girl with
money who lacks the brains and stamina to be a future Martha.
George sees Nick as the terrifying wave of a test-tube future
without blemish and free of art, in which “the ants will take
over the world.”  “Virginia Woolf” is that rarity, a three-act, two-
intermission drama that grabs you and never lets go.  George and Martha will remain together, but hardly on a
note of hope. Credit MacKinnon and her perfectly synchronized
quartet for executing the play not as an allegory but as a real-
time excursion into lives made unbearably common by compromise
and self-delusion. It’s unforgiving, and it’s also
unforgettable.  At the Booth Theatre, 222 W. 45th St. Information: +1-212-
239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com .
Rating: *****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  Laurie
Muchnick  on business books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 