-- Both Campaigns Succumb to Foolish Protectionism
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-10-15T22:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/both-campaigns-succumb-to-foolish-protectionism.html
If you live in Ohio or
 Wisconsin  and own a television, you might be under the
impression that America’s main foreign enemies are the
exporters of  China . They’re the leading villains in
political ads from both presidential nominees.  Mitt Romney criticizes President  Barack Obama  because
“seven times” he failed to label China a currency
manipulator and slap tariffs on its products. Romney
promises to take both steps on day one. (Tariffs are the
only kind of taxes Romney has shown any interest in
raising.) Obama says he is the real trade warrior and
Romney is only faking. According to one of  the president’s
ads , Obama “stood up to China” by putting a tariff on tire
imports. The ad faults Romney for opposing his action: “How
can  Mitt Romney  take on the cheaters when he’s taking their
side?” the ad concludes.  The tire tariffs are nothing to brag about. (They were
imposed, incidentally, because  imports had surged , not in
response to any “cheating.”) Obama said in his  State of the
Union   address  in January that the tariffs had saved more
than 1,000 jobs. The Peterson Institute for International
Economics  found  that in 2011, the tariffs had probably, on
balance, destroyed more than 2,500 jobs, an estimate that
doesn’t include the casualties from the retaliatory actions
China took against U.S. exporters. If the tariffs saved any
jobs, they did so at a cost of at least $900,000 per job.  “The big winners,” the Peterson study concludes, “were
alternative foreign exporters, primarily located in Asia
and  Mexico , selling low-end tires to the United States.”
Their sales displaced those of Chinese companies.  Romney Goes Wrong  So Romney was right to oppose the tire tariffs. Where
he goes wrong is in imagining that his own tariffs would
somehow avoid the negative consequences of Obama’s.  Romney claims that by manipulating exchange rates
China has added to its  trade surplus  with the U.S., and
this surplus has cost at least 450,000 American jobs. His
argument may have political appeal, but it doesn’t make
economic sense -- which is why he largely ignored his own
economic team on the question.  The bilateral trade deficit is an  increasingly
meaningless statistic . It treats iPhones as Chinese exports
because they are assembled and shipped in China. Pascal Lamy, the director-general of the World Trade Organization,
has said the U.S. trade deficit with China might be halved
if the statistics took better account of supply chains.  To get its estimate of 450,000 lost jobs, the Romney
campaign  cites  a Washington Post  article , which in turn
attributes the number to “a pro-labor advocate at the
liberal Economic Policy Institute.” It’s a nonsense figure,
reached by falsely assuming that if exports create jobs,
imports must destroy them at the same rate. Almost all
economists believe that two countries can both come out
ahead by trading, just as two people can.  China has been letting its currency move closer to
market levels since 2005. So far, that movement hasn’t been
correlated either with the size of the American trade
deficit with China or with the number of jobs available in
the U.S. Dan Ikenson, a trade-policy analyst at the Cato
Institute,  provides  one reason the appreciation of the  yuan 
might not have the effect on the trade gap that Romney
wants: It makes some Chinese exporters more competitive by
cutting the cost of their imported inputs. Romney would be
risking a trade war to get China to accelerate a policy
that hasn’t yielded any visible improvements for the job
prospects of Americans.  Trade attorney and blogger Scott Lincicome makes a
 strong case  that presidents don’t even have the legal
authority to take the steps Romney advocates. The president
can’t just instruct the Treasury Department to reach the
formal conclusion that China is a currency manipulator, or
order the Commerce Department to start levying tariffs.  Real-World Consequences  Romney would probably be more of a free-trade
president than Obama, if only because he is less beholden
to protectionist unions and has never expressed the
skepticism about trade agreements that Obama has. Romney’s
book “No Apology” recorded his opposition not only to
Obama’s tire tariffs but to former President George W. Bush’s steel tariffs, as well.  Romney’s decision to portray Obama as weak on trade
with China, however, has had more real-world consequences
than his free-trading comments. Last month, Obama  announced 
-- while campaigning in  Ohio  -- that he was filing a
complaint at the WTO against China for subsidizing its
automakers. (News reports don’t record whether the self-
proclaimed savior of  Detroit  blushed while he spoke.)  Romney pushed Obama in this direction -- and the two
of them have given this campaign a more protectionist
flavor than any presidential election in recent memory.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
senior editor at National Review. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials,
columns and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how Spain can stop
 Catalonian secession  and on  Romney’s still-missing numbers ;
Edward Glaeser on the  winner of the economics Nobel ;
 Jeffrey Goldberg  on Republicans using the  Benghazi attack
to undermine Obama ; Michael Kinsley on checking  candidates’
arguments  instead of facts; William Pesek on  “Gangnam
Style” and South Korea’s economy ; Carmen M. Reinhart and
Kenneth S. Rogoff on why  U.S. financial crises  aren’t
different.  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  