-- Braskem Said to Seek Buyers for Chemical Distributor QuantiQ
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-10-15T20:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/braskem-said-to-seek-buyers-for-chemicals-distributor-quantiq.html
Braskem SA (BRKM5) , Latin America’s largest
petrochemicals maker, is seeking a buyer for QuantiQ, its
chemical distribution unit, according to two people familiar
with the situation.  Braskem, based in  Sao Paulo , hired  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  to
solicit offers for the unit, which may fetch about $500 million,
said the people, who asked not to be named because the talks are
private. U.S. distributors such as Nexeo Solutions LLC and
Univar Inc. and Germany’s  Brenntag AG (BNR)  may be among the suitors
for the business, said one of the people.  Representatives for Braskem and Nexeo couldn’t immediately
comment. Spokesmen at Santander, Univar and Brenntag declined to
comment.  Slowing economic growth in Brazil, the world’s second-
largest emerging market, is curbing demand for Braskem’s resins,
which are used to make plastic for packaging and auto parts.
Braskem, which uses oil-derived naphtha to make the resins, is
also facing rising competition as U.S. rivals cut costs by using
cheaper shale gas as their main raw material, Chief Financial
Officer Marcela Drehmer said July 13. It posted a 1.03 billion-
real ($506 million) loss in the second quarter after the cost of
raw materials rose.  Brazil’s Largest  QuantiQ is  Brazil ’s largest chemicals and petrochemicals
distributor, with five distribution centers in the country,
three logistics centers and units at main ports, according to
its website.  Braskem has invested outside of Brazil to diversify its
sources of revenue. In September 2011, it paid  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) 
$323 million for polypropylene assets in the U.S. and Germany.
The company plans to build a $2.5 billion complex in Mexico with
Grupo Idesa SA and to develop a $3 billion plant in Peru in a
venture with Petroperu SA.  Braskem fell less than 1 percent to 13.84 reais at the
close in Sao Paulo. The stock rose 8.8 percent this year before
today, more than the 4.2 percent gain in the benchmark Bovespa
stock index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  