-- Brazilian Real Advances as U.S. Retail Sales Exceed Forecasts
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-10-15T21:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/brazilian-real-advances-as-u-s-retail-sales-exceed-forecasts.html
Brazil ’s real gained for the first
time in a week after U.S. retail sales rose more than forecast,
boosting global growth optimism and increasing demand for
emerging-market assets.  The sales figures overshadowed a report showing the median
forecast of about 100 economists in a Brazilian central bank
survey indicated a reduced outlook for 2012 expansion for the
first time in four weeks.  “The market opened a bit better following the external
environment,” Italo Abucater, the head of currency trading at
Icap Brasil, said by phone from Sao Paulo.  The real appreciated 0.3 percent to 2.0357 per dollar at 6
p.m. in Sao Paulo. Swap rates on the contract due in January
2014 rose one basis points, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.46
percent. Markets in Brazil were closed Oct. 12 for a national
holiday.  Retail sales in the world’s largest economy rose 1.1
percent in September, surpassing the median 0.8 percent forecast
of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, Commerce Department
figures showed today in  Washington .  Swap rates maturing in July 2013 or later climbed as U.S.
retail figures overshadowed the central bank survey showing
analysts covering Brazil lowered their 2012 growth forecast to
1.54 percent, from 1.57 percent a week ago.  ‘Remain Stable’  “If the U.S. keeps improving, the environment in 2013 may
not be as disinflationary as the central bank was thinking,”
Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, said by phone from  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The
central bank meeting minutes will be the focus of the market
this week. We’ll see if the central bank gives parameters of how
long rates will remain stable.”  Policy makers led by central bank President Alexandre
Tombini reduced the benchmark Selic rate by a quarter percentage
point to a record 7.25 percent last week, the 10th consecutive
round of cuts. Three dissenting members favored leaving interest
rates unchanged.  The bank said keeping monetary conditions stable for a
“sufficiently prolonged period” was the best strategy for
balancing inflation risks stemming from a recovery in domestic
activity with continued “complexity” in the global economy.  The minutes of last week’s monetary policy meeting will be
released Oct. 18.  Analysts in today’s central bank survey forecast inflation
of 5.43 percent this year, up from the previous week’s estimate
of 5.42 percent, and predicted price increases of 5.42 percent
next year, down from 5.44 percent. Brazil targets inflation of
4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  