-- Bristol-Myers Trails U.S. Rivals as Promising Drugs Fade
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-10-15T20:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/bristol-myers-trials-u-s-rivals-as-promising-drugs-fade.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  is the only
U.S. drugmaker among the  top 12  to decline in trading this year,
and investors and analysts say they don’t expect a comeback in
2012 because of drug pipeline setbacks.  Bristol-Myers has fallen 3.7 percent this year, while the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Pharmaceutical Index has surged 15
percent. For the New York-based company, the drop is a stark
contrast to 2011, when it rode the promise of new products for
cardiovascular disease, hepatitis C and cancer to a 33 percent
increase that led the industry.  That promise has failed to materialize. The hepatitis C
medicine fell victim to safety issues that caused the company to
drop development, and the blood thinner has been slowed by
regulatory delays that may open it to unexpected early
competition. As a result, the shares, which remain the most
expensive among its index peers, may still be overvalued, said
 Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group in New York.  “Right now, I just don’t see the catalyst in 2012, or even
in early 2013, to own Bristol,” Schoenebaum, who has a hold
rating on the stock, said in an Oct. 10 webcast. “The price-
earnings ratio is at such a premium to the rest of the group.”  Bristol-Myers traded at a  19 percent premium  to the S&P
pharmaceutical index on a price-to-earnings basis, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Schoenebaum said investors are
staying on the sidelines, and only nine of 24 analysts reporting
their ratings suggest buying. The company is scheduled to
release third-quarter  earnings  on Oct. 24.  The company’s shares rose 2.5 percent to $33.93 at the
close of  New York  trading.  Optimism ‘Cooled’  “I’ve definitely cooled on it,” saidMarshall Gordon,
whose investment firm ClearBridge Advisors was the company’s
33rd biggest shareholder with 7.6 million shares as of June 30.
A backer of the stock, he calls the next few months critical in
justifying its current valuation.  Bristol-Myers  shares fell  8.6 percent on Aug. 2, when the
company suspended a trial of an experimental hepatitis C drug
after patients developed heart failure.  The company acquired the therapy in its $2.5 billion
purchase of Inhibitex Inc. in February, gambling on estimates
that a $20 billion market would be created by next-generation
drugs that would replace current treatments that can’t be used
by all patients and carry difficult side effects.  The company took a $1.8 billion write-off on the Inhibitex
purchase in August.  Two months earlier, in June, U.S regulators delayed
approval of the blood thinner Eliquis, a medicine with the
potential to generate $1.67 billion in sales by 2015, according
to the average of seven analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Originally slated for approval this past March, a decision has
been delayed by 12 months.  Eliquis Rival  The delay may enable competitors to close in on Bristol-
Myers’s potential market lead, said  Seamus Fernandez , an analyst
at Leerink Swann & Co. He pointed to an experimental blood
thinner from Tokyo-based Daiichi Sankyo Co. that may show
results from a clinical trial next year.  “You don’t know how that trial is going to play out, but
our concern there is that investors are pretty much all-in on
the success of Eliquis,” said Fernandez, who downgraded the
stock to “market perform” in August, based on the writedown
for the hepatitis C drug and the Eliquis delay. “I don’t think
investors are fully considering the risk.”  Bristol-Myers’s challenge will be to prove that 2012 is an
aberration, and that the stock’s steady ride higher under
current management will resume.  Andreotti’s Naming  From May 4, 2010, when Lamberto Andreotti took over as
chief executive officer, to the close of 2011, it gained 39
percent, compared with 13 percent for the S&P’s pharmaceutical
index as a whole. The company has been positioning itself over
the last five years to prepare for the sales decline of Plavix,
an anti-stroke medication that lost patent protection this year
and was the company’s top drug.  Investors have rewarded the company’s internal development
efforts and its purchases of outside assets meant to diversify
its products. Now, they may be shifting money to other
pharmaceutical stocks, said  Les Funtleyder , who runs an
investment fund for Poliwogg in New York.  “Bristol was very successful last year and got a little
bit more rich on the valuation basis,” Funtleyder, whose firm
doesn’t own the stock, said in a telephone interview. “Then
they had a change where the news wasn’t terrible but wasn’t
favorable, like the Inhibitex thing, and the rest of the
industry saw more positive news flow.”  Risk-Reward  Leerink’s Fernandez  downgraded  the stock in August, as did
 Tony Butler , an analyst with Barclays Plc.  “When you take everything together, the risk-reward at
these levels isn’t compelling enough for us” to recommend
Bristol-Myers to investors, Fernandez said in a telephone
interview.  There’s also the possibility the company won’t meet the
earnings target for next year it set in 2010, and “might have
to guide the street down in 2013,” Fernandez said.  The company set its 2013 goals at a March 2010 investor
meeting. Then, Andreotti promised annual earnings per share
except for certain items of at least $1.95, “at a minimum.”  Things have changed since then, said Chief Financial
Officer Charles Bancroft at an investor conference last month.
There have been “been a lot of pulls and pushes” on the
drugmaker’s business in the intervening years, he said.  Bancroft cited economic troubles in  Europe , price pressure
in the U.S., and money spent to acquire companies like Amylin
Pharmaceuticals Inc., purchased for $5.3 billion in June, which
he said will cut 3 cents from earnings.  ‘Disconnect’  “The reason we did that was that we felt that there was a
disconnect in how we saw the evolution of Bristol-Myers Squibb
and how the market viewed Bristol-Myers Squibb,” Bancroft said.
“Our real goal is, yes, we’re focused on 2013 and we’re focused
on delivering in the short term, but it’s really how do we grow
and really create a sustainable business in the longer term.”  Bristol-Myers had no further comment, said  Jennifer Mauer ,
a company spokeswoman. “We don’t plan to talk about 2013
guidance until January of 2013,” she said in an e-mail.  Plavix, the company’s longtime sales leader, generated
$7.09 billion in revenue last year, making up 33 percent of the
company’s sales. It lost patent protection in May, and investors
have focused on drugs such as the cancer medication Yervoy, the
antipsychotic Abilify and diabetes drugs acquired from Amylin.  The company continues to have the best early product
development pipeline among drugmakers, making it “a really
great long-term story still,” said Gordon of ClearBridge
Advisors. He called Bristol-Myers a core holding, though he said
he might reduce the number of shares for now.  “As portfolio managers try to weigh the short versus the
long term, I would bet you they’re probably at the margin
selling, not buying here,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  