-- British TV Star Roils Establishment on Sex-Abuse Claims
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-10-16T13:43:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/british-tv-star-roils-establishment-on-sex-abuse-claims.html
Escalating allegations of child
abuse by Jimmy Savile, a disc jockey who became one of the most
famous personalities at the  British Broadcasting Corp. , are
forcing the U.K. establishment to answer for close ties to the
star and explain why it took so long for complaints to surface.  Savile, a friend of Prince Charles who stayed at  Margaret Thatcher ’s country home when she was prime minister, died last
year at the age of 84. A documentary by broadcaster  ITV Plc (ITV)  this
month featured several women accusing the host of BBC’s “Top of
the Pops” music show of sexual abuse when they were teens.
Police are investigating claims dating back as far as 1959
through 2006, including those that Savile misused his status as
a charity worker to abuse patients at hospitals.  The revelations are putting pressure on those who appointed
the entertainer to programs and positions that dealt with
children, creating a fresh British media scandal following the
phone hacking by journalists at the U.K. newspapers of  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  The BBC, where Savile worked for more than
30 years, is investigating the claims as well as the role of
executives such as former Director General Mark Thompson,
scheduled to start as  New York Times Co. (NYT) ’s chief executive
officer next month, in canceling an investigative program.  “This is a particularly ugly British scandal of enormous
ramifications,” said Claire Enders, CEO of Enders Analysis,
which advises clients including the U.K. government. “Like an
express train, there will be other people caught up in this and
it will go on for some time.”  Dozens of Victims  Savile, who was knighted for charity work in 1990, fronted
programs including the  BBC ’s “ Jim’ll Fix It ,” which granted
children wishes such as meeting celebrities. He ran more than
200 fundraising marathons and served as unofficial adviser to
Prince Charles for years, according to a BBC obituary when
Savile died in October 2011.  London ’s Metropolitan police estimate that there are dozens
of potential victims.  “We have received information from the public that suggest
allegations against Jimmy Savile span six decades with reports
starting in 1959 up to and including 2006,” said Commander
 Peter Spindler , the head of specialist crime investigations.  ‘No Involvement’  The BBC has said Thompson wasn’t involved in a decision to
cancel an investigation into sexual abuse allegations against
Savile.  Journalists for BBC’s “Newsnight” program in November
2011 started an investigation into claims that Savile, who had
died a month earlier, sexually abused underage girls, the
broadcaster said in a letter to U.K. lawmakers last week.  Thompson, who stepped down as BBC chief this year, and his
successor George Entwistle had “no involvement in the
investigation or the subsequent decision to drop it,” the
broadcaster said. Entwistle managed the BBC’s television
channels before he became director general.  Peter Rippon, the editor of the “Newsnight” show, has
said that he ended the program’s investigation because Savile
wasn’t able to defend himself and the level of proof wasn’t
sufficient.  Savile worked on television and radio at the BBC starting
in 1964 as a disc jockey and host of entertainment shows
including “The Vintage Chart Show” on the BBC World Service.  ‘Serious Allegation’  Thompson, who ran the BBC from 2004 until resigning this
year, also headed Channel Four Television Corp. from 2002 until
2004 and held different posts at BBC News prior to that time. He
joined the BBC as a production trainee in 1979. Early in his
career at the BBC, Thompson was stationed in the  New York  bureau
where he met his wife, Jane Blumberg, a U.S. citizen and
daughter of the late Nobel Prize laureate Baruch Blumberg.  The BBC said in an e-mailed statement that “Thompson was
not directly involved with any of Jimmy Savile’s programming.”
The New York Times declined to make Thompson available and to
comment on the case.  “‘Newsnight’ is the only serious allegation  Mark Thompson 
could face,” said  Lis Howell , who teaches television journalism
and is director of broadcasting at City University London.  The BBC, funded by a mandatory license fee, is now
investigating the cancellation of the segment and will also look
into the culture and practices of the BBC during the years that
Jimmy Savile worked here, and afterwards.  Potential Inquiry  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  told the House of Commons
in London today “there may be a case for an inquiry” that
would be “independent and be able to look at the full range of
the shocking revelations as they have come to light.”  Another recent British media scandal, which involved phone-
hacking by journalists working for News Corp.’s newspaper unit,
prompted Prime Minister  David Cameron  to set up a judge-led
inquiry into media ethics that has also interviewed Rupert Murdoch and may recommend new rules for the U.K. media.  “The first priority must be to allow the police to conduct
its work,” Clegg said. “In many ways the dark side of the cult
of celebrity” may have inhibited people from speaking out, he
said.  BBC chief Entwistle has been called to testify to the House
of Commons Culture Committee on Oct. 23, the panel said today.  ‘Absolutely Horrifying’  Savile’s charitable support for hospitals gained him
unusual access to institutions including  Stoke Mandeville
Hospital , where “he stayed there so often he had his own
suite,” according to the BBC. Savile was also appointed to
oversee the  Broadmoor  secure psychiatric hospital in 1988.  “In hindsight he should very obviously not have been
appointed,” the  Department of Health  said in a statement,
adding it’s investigating Savile’s role.  “The allegations emerging around Jimmy Savile are
absolutely horrifying,” U.K. Culture Secretary Maria Miller
told the House of Commons in London yesterday.  When Savile died last year, it prompted members of the
Royal family to offer their condolences with Prince Charles
telling the BBC that he’s “saddened to hear of Jimmy Savile’s
death.” A spokeswoman for Clarence House, the official
residence of Prince Charles, declined to comment.  David Banks, a former editor of the Daily Mirror tabloid,
said allegations against Savile aren’t new.  ‘Real Disaster’  “Everybody was itching to write the true story of Savile,
but when they tiptoed around the lawyers jumped in and the
editors withdrew,” he said. “It was generally accepted that he
was creepy but he became so big and so malleable for politicians
to be photographed and to align themselves with.”  The situation, Banks said, is a “real disaster for the
BBC” and not something ideal for Thompson’s resume heading to
the New York Times.  Liz Dux , a lawyer representing at least 10 alleged victims,
said she’s considering filing a civil group lawsuit against the
BBC, a hospital and a children’s home.  The case follows the high-profile sex-abuse scandal in the
U.S. of former Pennsylvania State University assistant football
coach Jerry Sandusky, who was sentenced last week to 30 to 60
years in prison. Sandusky, who was convicted on 45 counts, met
boys he abused through the Second Mile, a charity he founded for
needy children.  Tom Watson , a Labour Party lawmaker who was on the
parliamentary committee that investigated Murdoch’s U.K.
newspapers over phone-hacking, said it’s too early to tell if
the BBC is on the verge of a scandal of similar size.  “It is very, very serious for the BBC,” Watson said in an
e-mail. “Without more detailed evidence I don’t think I can
make the comparison to the hacking cover up -- yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  