-- BTG Said to Negotiate With Apax for Sale of 25% Stake in Leader
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-10-15T18:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/btg-said-to-negotiate-with-apax-for-sale-of-25-stake-in-leader.html
BTG Pactual Participations Ltd. is
negotiating to sell a 25 percent stake in Brazilian furniture
and clothing retailer Leader Participacoes SA to Apax Partners
LLP, the London-based buyout firm, said two people with direct
knowledge of the matter.  Apax would pay about 350 million reais ($172 million), said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the
negotiations are private. BTG Pactual Participations is the
private-equity arm of Sao Paulo-based  Grupo BTG Pactual (BBTG11) , led by
billionaire  Andre Esteves .  BTG outbid rivals for control of Leader this year as
competition for retail takeovers heated up. BTG bought about 40
percent of Rio de Janeiro-based Leader in May and announced the
purchase of about 30 percent last month, topping  GP Investments
Ltd. (GPIX) , according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Apax, run by Martin Halusa, made its first Brazilian
investment in May 2010 when it agreed to buy 54 percent of Tivit
Terceirizacao de Processos Servicos e Tecnologia SA, the Sao
Paulo-based computer-services company. Apax offered 18.10 reais
a share, valuing Tivit at about $1 billion.  Tivit provides outsourcing services to 300 of  Brazil ’s 500
largest companies, including the country’s major banks and
manufacturers, according to Apax. Halusa’s firm, with 58
partners, posted a profit for last year of about $174 million.
Holdings included British retailer New Look Group Ltd.  BTG paid 990 million reais for 70 percent of Leader,
valuing the company at about 10 times its 2011 earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, said one of the
people familiar with the deal. The remainder is held by the
founding Gouvea family.  Officials for BTG and Benjamin Harding, a spokesman for
Apax, declined to comment on whether a deal is being discussed.
GP Investments wouldn’t comment on whether it was outbid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  