-- Business Inventories in U.S. Grew at a Slower Pace in August
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-10-15T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/business-inventories-in-u-s-grew-at-a-slower-pace-in-august.html
Inventories in the U.S. rose at a
slower pace in August, indicating that unexpected strength in
sales may be starting to drain stockpiles.  The 0.6 percent increase in goods on hand followed a 0.8
percent gain in July, Commerce Department data showed today in
Washington. Sales at factories, wholesalers and retailers
climbed 0.5 percent after advancing 0.9 percent the prior month.  The biggest back-to-back gains in retail sales in almost
two years may be making it difficult to keep shelves and
warehouses stocked as companies reined in spending ahead of
looming year-end tax and government spending changes in the U.S.
The need to replenish depleted inventories may help give
manufacturing a boost in the last three months of the year.  “Businesses are operating in a fairly lean environment
right now,”  Carl Riccadonna , a senior U.S. economist at
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York, said before the
report. “Definitely there’s hesitancy about these other
economic issues that I think is weighing on inventory
accumulation.”  The gain in inventories compared with a 0.5 percent gain
median forecast of 47 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Estimates ranged from gains of 0.2 percent to 0.7 percent.  At the current sales pace, businesses had enough goods on
hand to last 1.28 months, the same as in July.  A separate Commerce Department report today showed  retail
sales  rose more than projected in September, reflecting broad-
based gains that indicate household spending helped bolster
economic growth last quarter.  Sales Jump  The 1.1 percent advance in purchases followed a revised 1.2
percent increase in August that was larger than previously
estimated. The two-month gain was the biggest since late 2010.
The  median  forecast of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a 0.8 percent rise.  Consumer spending “remains quite robust,” Randy Potts,
chief executive officer of Forest City, Iowa-based  Winnebago
Industries Inc. (WGO) , the biggest U.S. maker of motor homes, said on
an Oct. 11 earnings teleconference. “We are very encouraged by
the positive signs we see in the general economy.”  Manufacturing in the New York region contracted in October
for a third straight month, indicating the pick up in spending
has yet to filter through to factories this part of the country,
another report today showed. The Federal Reserve Bank of New
York’s general economic gauge, known as the Empire State index,
rose to minus 6.2 from minus 10.4 in September, which was the
lowest since April 2009.  Retailers’ inventories, the only part of today’s stockpile
report not previously released, climbed 0.6 percent as sales
jumped 1.3 percent.  Payroll Gains  Employment figures released earlier this month by the Labor
Department showed the economy added 114,000 workers last month
after a revised 142,000 gain in August that was more than
initially estimated. The jobless rate unexpectedly dropped to
7.8 percent from 8.1 percent and hourly earnings climbed more
than forecast.  The Federal Reserve signaled it’s moving toward linking its
outlook for near-zero interest rates to specific economic
conditions such as a decline in the unemployment rate, rather
than tying low rates to the calendar, according to minutes of
the Federal Open Market Committee’s Sept. 12-13 meeting released
Oct. 3.  Wholesale inventories, which account for about 30 percent
of all business stockpiles, climbed 0.5 percent in August as
sales advanced, Commerce Department data showed. Factory
inventories, which comprise about 38 percent of the total, rose
0.6 percent in August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  