-- Cameron Says Israel Should Leave Time for Iran Sanctions to Work
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2012-10-15T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/cameron-says-israel-should-leave-time-for-iran-sanctions-to-work.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
will urge Israel to refrain from a military strike on  Iran’s
nuclear program  and say time should be given for sanctions,
including new European Union measures today, to work.  “Now is not the time for Israel to resort to military
action,” Cameron will say at the annual dinner of the  United
Jewish Israel Appeal  this evening, according to remarks released
by his office in  London . “At the very moment when the regime
faces unprecedented pressure and the people are on the streets,
and when Iran’s only real ally in  Syria  is losing his grip on
power, a foreign military strike is exactly the chance the
regime would look for to unite his people against a foreign
enemy. We shouldn’t give them that chance.”  EU foreign ministers meeting in Luxembourg today approved
tighter sanctions on  Iran  and its finance, energy and transport
industries in a bid to persuade the government to permit more
scrutiny of its nuclear program. The ministers froze the assets
of 34 Iranian entities to hinder the ability to raise funds for
the program, which the U.S. and European nations say is aimed at
producing weapons. The measures follow an oil embargo and a
central-bank asset freeze earlier this year.  “We need the courage to give these sanctions time to
work,” Cameron will say. “But let me also say this. In the
long term, if Iran makes the wrong choice, nothing is off the
table. A nuclear-armed Iran is a threat to  Israel . And a threat
to the world. And this country will work unwaveringly to prevent
that from happening.”  The measures taken by the EU, which complement U.S.
restrictions and are meant to close loopholes in existing
European sanctions, come after talks on Iranian atomic
activities yielded little progress and the Israeli government
warned of a growing threat of a nuclear-armed Iran. The Islamic
republic says its atomic program is for civilian purposes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  