-- Canada Second Quarter National Balance Sheet Account (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-10-15T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/canada-second-quarter-national-balance-sheet-account-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s national balance sheet account report for the
second quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  The implementation of revised international System of
National Accounts economic accounting standards resulted in a
downward revision to Canada’s national net worth. Both  household
debt  and net worth were revised upward. In the second quarter of
2012, national net worth increased by 1.2% to $6.8 trillion, up
from $6.7 trillion in the first quarter.  Revisions to national net worth  The historical revision of the national balance sheet
accounts introduced five significant changes to the nation’s
measure of non-financial assets and thus national wealth. These
include the capitalization of research and development
activities; the capitalization of military weapons systems; an
improved valuation of the corporate sector’s non-financial
assets; an improved valuation of the government sector’s non-
financial assets; and the use of new source data in valuing the
residential net stock.  On October 1, 2012,  Canada ’s net foreign debt was
historically revised. This revision also had an impact on
Canada’s national net worth. For 2011, national net worth was
revised downward by $64 billion. On a per capita basis, national
net worth was revised from $190,200 to $188,300.  Revisions to classifications, valuation and methodology  In the previous vintage of the national balance sheet
accounts, the household sector included the activities of non-
profit institutions serving households. In this new presentation,
the activities of non-profit institutions serving households
have been moved to a new sector.  An updated classification of financial assets and
liabilities has been implemented with the historical revision of
the national balance sheet accounts. The classification more
closely reflects the classification proposed by the
international System of National Accounts (SNA 2008) standard.
One of the major advantages of the revised data is that it
provides a much clearer picture of the value of equity by sector.  Prior to the historical revision, all types of equity were
grouped together. The historically revised data separate equity
into listed shares, unlisted shares, mutual fund shares,
government claim equity and foreign investment equity.
Furthermore, all corporate sector equity is now recorded at
market value, whereas prior to the historical revision, only
listed shares and mutual fund shares were recorded at market
value.  A revised methodology was adopted in the compilation of
estimates of financial assets and financial liabilities in the
national balance sheet accounts. This resulted in a relatively
large revision to certain categories of financial assets and
financial liabilities including mortgages, mutual funds, cash
and deposits and  life insurance  and pensions. In addition to the
revision resulting from the change in methodology, additional
revisions were a result of new and improved data sources.  Revisions to the household sector  The revision to the classifications as well as improved
valuation and methodology had an impact on a number of key
household sector financial indicators.  For 2011, household net worth was revised upward from $6.3
trillion to $6.6 trillion. The majority of this increase was due
to improved valuation of unlisted shares. Unlisted shares are
now recorded at market value rather than book value. This added
approximately $108 billion to household net worth. On a per
capita basis, household net worth was revised from $182,900 to
$190,800.  The household credit market debt to disposable income ratio
was revised upward from 150.6% to 161.7%. This revision is due
to three factors. First, the methodological changes in the
compilation of the national balance sheet resulted in an upward
revision to household credit market debt from $1.59 trillion to
$1.61 trillion. Second, there was a redefinition of household
disposable income as part of the historical revision of the
national gross domestic product (GDP) by income and by
expenditure accounts published on October 1, 2012, that lowered
this measure. Third, the removal of the non-profit institutions
serving households from the household sector served to push the
ratio higher since these institutions had a dampening effect on
previous estimates.  Revisions to government debt  The historical revision resulted in changes in the level of
government net debt. Total government net debt (expressed at
book value) was $863 billion in 2011, prior to the historical
revision it was estimated at $810 billion. Recent revisions
reflect the incorporation of the latest public accounts
information while revisions to earlier periods are a result of
the incorporation of revised data originating from the
historically revised national income and expenditure accounts
released on October 1, 2012.  The historical revision to the national GDP in the income
and expenditure accounts resulted in a slight upward revision in
the level of GDP. The upward revision in GDP was not enough to
offset the revision to government net debt -- resulting in an
overall upward revision in the government net debt to GDP ratio.
For 2011, the ratio of total government net debt to GDP was
49.0%, while prior to the historical revision the ratio was
47.1%.  Revisions to corporate leverage  The historical revision increased the value of the private
non-financial corporate sector’s credit market debt as well as
it’s equity (both expressed at book value). Credit market debt
increased from $845.6 billion to $912.5 billion, while the value
of their equity increased from $1.56 trillion to $1.69 trillion.
As a result, the credit market debt to equity ratio was revised
from 54.1% to 53.9%.  Revisions to financial institutions’ equity  The historical revision resulted in a substantial change in
the value of mutual fund assets and liabilities recorded in the
national balance sheet accounts. New source data and improved
coverage of  exchange traded funds  and fund-of-funds resulted in
an upward revision in mutual fund assets from $761 billion to
$990 billion for 2011.  Estimates of life insurance were also revised over the
period of the historical revision, mainly as a result of the
revaluation of corporate claim equity from book value to market
value.  Second quarter of 2012  In the second quarter of 2012, national net worth increased
by $77 billion or 1.2% to $6.8 trillion, up from $6.7 trillion
in the first quarter. On a per capita basis, national net worth
expanded from $192,500 in the first quarter to $194,100 in the
second quarter.  National net worth changes reflected a 1.4% increase in the
value of non-financial assets, moderated by a 10.7% increase in
net foreign debt.  Household sector  Household net worth increased by 0.9% in the second quarter
of 2012, primarily resulting from a 2.2% rise in the value of
residential real estate. However, the value of household net
financial assets declined in the second quarter, mainly because
of a 5% decline in the value of listed shares.  Growth in household credit market debt continued in the
second quarter, increasing 1.8% from the previous quarter,
mainly attributable to increases in  consumer credit  and
mortgages. The household credit market debt to disposable income
ratio was 163.4%, up from 161.8% in the previous quarter.  Government net debt trends upwards  Total government net debt (expressed at book value) rose to
$897 billion, an increase of $20 billion from the first quarter.
Expressed as a percentage of GDP, the ratio was 50.1%, up from
49.4% in the previous quarter.  Corporate leverage  The ratio of total private non-financial corporation credit
market debt to equity (expressed at book value) edged up from
55.3% in the first quarter to 55.6% in the second quarter.  The value of financial institutions’ equity portfolio decreases  In the second quarter of 2012, the value of total financial
assets of lending institutions and institutional investors (such
as trusteed pension plans and mutual funds) decreased 0.6% to
$8.9 trillion from $9.0 trillion in the previous quarter, as a
result of a decline in the value of shares as the Toronto Stock
Exchange fell 6.4% during the quarter.  Note to readers  The National Balance Sheet Accounts comprise the balance
sheets of all sectors of the economy: households, non-profit
institutions serving households, financial corporate, non-
financial corporate, government, and non-resident sectors. They
cover all national non-financial assets and financial claims and
their associated liabilities outstanding in all sectors.  National net worth is national wealth less net foreign
liabilities (that is, what is owed to non-residents less what
non-residents owe to Canadians). Alternatively, it is the sum of
the net worth of the household, non-profit institutions serving
households, financial corporate, non-financial corporate, and
government sectors.  Household credit market debt comprises consumer credit,
mortgage, and loan debt of households -- which include
unincorporated businesses.  Corporate equity is treated as a liability on the balance
sheet of the corporate sector since it represents a claim by
shareholders on the corporate sector. As a result, as equity
prices increase, corporate net worth will tend to decline,
reflecting the increase in the corporate sector’s equity
liabilities.  Definitions concerning financial indicators can be found in
Financial indicators from the National Balance Sheet Accounts
( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc-cel?catno=13-605 -
X201200411730&amp;lang=fra) .  For a more detailed description of the 2012 Historical
Revision, consult Revisions analysis - National Balance Sheet
Account 2012 ( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc -
cel?catno=13-605-X201200411729&amp;lang=fra) .  For more information, contact the information officer
( csna-info-scnc@statcan.gc.ca ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  