-- Canada Household Debt Reaches Record Amid Economy Concern
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-10-15T14:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/canada-household-debt-ratio-jumps-to-record-in-second-quarter.html
Canadian  household debt  compared
with disposable income jumped to a  record  in the second quarter,
the statistics agency said, heightening concerns borrowing will
weigh on the country’s economic outlook.  The ratio grew to 165.8 percent in the second quarter,
while the first-quarter figure was revised to 164.2 percent from
a previous 154.3 percent, Statistics Canada said today from
Ottawa. Today’s report made historical revisions back to 1990,
which raised the debt ratio in recent years due to a higher
estimate of credit-market debt and reduced income.  Canadian policy makers have warned that a surge in
household debt is among the biggest threats to the Canadian
economy, and may prompt Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  to
raise borrowing costs. Canada is at risk of a second recession
since 2009 because record debt loads may force households to
curb spending, according to a Sept. 6 Moody’s Analytics report.  “It’s worrisome,” said  Mark Chandler , head of fixed-
income strategy in Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital
Markets unit. “You just have to be more committed to take the
opportunity to raise rates when you have the window.”  U.S. household debt as a share of disposable income was at
140.1 percent in the second quarter.  Carney has said Canadians should make sure their debt loads
remain affordable because  interest rates  will eventually rise.
He’s kept his  main interest rate  at 1 percent for more than two
years, the longest pause since the 1950s, and has said he may
tighten policy as the economy moves toward full output.  The ratio of credit market debt to disposable income rose
to 163.4 percent from 161.8 percent in the first quarter, as
credit market debt grew by 1.8 percent and disposable income by
1 percent.  The equity held by consumers as a percentage of real estate
value was little changed at 69.2 percent in the second quarter,
according to the report.  National net worth rose 1.1 percent to C$6.77 trillion
($6.91 trillion) in the quarter,  Statistics Canada  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  