-- Canada Dollar Little Changed as Carney Says Global Economy Slows
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-10-15T21:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/canadian-dollar-rises-on-slowing-chinese-inflation-before-data.html
Canada’s dollar was little changed
versus its U.S. counterpart, erasing gains after Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney  said he will adjust economic forecasts to
reflect a slowing global recovery, fueling speculation that he
won’t raise  interest rates  in the short term.  The central bank’s revised forecast next week “will take
into account the impact of the uncertainty,” Carney said in the
text of a speech that he gave in Nanaimo, British Columbia.
Canada’s dollar advanced earlier as existing home sales rose 2.5
percent in September from the previous month. U.S. retail sales
gained 1.1 percent last month, following a revised 1.2 percent
advance the prior month, Commerce Department figures showed in
 Washington .  “The speech was more dovish than Carney has been lately,”
said David Bradley, director of foreign-exchange trading in
Toronto at Scotia Capital Inc., a unit of  Canada ’s third-largest
bank. “Equities are closing on a good tone and the Canadian
dollar should be stronger on the back of that, so obviously
there is some impact on his statement going through the market
and reaching the loonie, however minor.”  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, traded at 98.07
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after gaining as
much as 0.3 percent. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0197.  The Standard and Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.8 percent. Crude
oil futures were little changed at $91.77 a barrel in  New York ,
after reaching as low as $89.79. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Index of 24 raw materials lost 0.3 percent.  Chart Points  The loonie has strengthened beyond its 50-day, the 100-day,
and the 200-day moving averages. Crossing a moving average is
often considered a turning point in the direction of a
security’s price.  “Short-term trend momentum is still more U.S. negative
than anything,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , said in a note to clients.  Canada’s two-year notes rose for the second day, with the
yield down six basis points, or 0.06 percent, to 1.08 percent.
The 1 percent bonds maturing in November 2014 added 12 cents to
C$99.84.  Investors in Canadian corporate bonds are extending a rally
in BBB rated companies by chasing issuers including uranium
miner  Cameco Corp. (CCO)   The additional yield investors demand to hold the debt of
Canadian BBB rated companies has narrowed 34 basis points since
the end of June to 190 basis points, the smallest premium since
May 2011, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.
Relative yields on Cameco’s C$500 million ($510 million) of 5.67
percent bonds maturing in September 2019 narrowed 40 basis
points since then, the data show, as the shares fell 17 percent
on declining uranium prices.  Business Plans  The currency earlier fell as Canadian businesses curbed
their expectations for sales growth, investment and hiring over
the next year on signs of weaker global demand, according to a
 Bank of Canada  survey.  Global demand is being curtailed by uncertainty created
from the 19 crisis meetings of euro-zone leaders during the past
two years and whether the U.S. will avoid legislated fiscal
tightening that will occur unless Congress acts, the so-called
fiscal cliff, Carney said.  “This may indicate that the Bank may revert to a more
neutral stance next week but will stop short of telegraphing a
rate cut,” Mazen Issa, Canada macro strategist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank’s TD Securities, said in a phone interview. He
said a rate cut remains a low probability.  Carney has said since April that that tighter policy “may
become appropriate” as the economy moves toward full output, a
phrase that didn’t appear in today’s text. The speech is
Carney’s last scheduled public appearance before the interest-
rate decision Oct. 23 and full economic forecast a day later.
Canada’s key interest rate has been at 1 percent for two years,
the longest pause since the 1950s.  Home Sales  The sale of homes rose to 36,601, from 35,712 in August,
the  Canadian Real Estate Association  said in an e-mailed
statement. Home sales were down 15.1 percent from the same month
last year.  U.S. consumer exceeded projections as the median forecast
of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.8 percent
rise.  The U.S. retail sales report “is encouraging because it’s
reinforcing the view that there is still life in the U.S.
consumer sector and that despite the sluggishness in the labor
market, the household sector is holding on in the U.S.,” Audrey Childe-Freeman, head foreign-exchange strategist at  Bank of
Montreal (BMO)  in  London , said in a phone interview. “That should be
supportive of the Canadian dollar.”  The loonie has added 2.3 percent this year against nine
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted currency Indexes. The greenback has declined 2.3
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  