-- Canada Firms in Bank Survey Expect Stalling Sales Growth
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-10-15T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/canada-firms-in-bank-survey-expect-stalling-sales-growth.html
Canadian businesses curbed their
expectations for sales growth, investment and hiring over the
next year on signs of weaker global demand, according to a  Bank
of Canada  survey.  The  balance  of opinion for sales growth over the next year
fell to zero from the prior measure of 15 percentage points, the
Ottawa-based central bank said today. The balance subtracts the
percentage of those who predict slower sales growth from those
calling for an acceleration.  “In an environment of slow global economic growth and
uncertainty about demand, firms have tempered their expectations
for business activity,” the Business Outlook Survey report
said.  Governor Mark Carney has kept his key  interest rate  at 1
percent since September 2010 and will probably keep it there
through the first quarter of next year, according to a Bloomberg
survey of economists. The next announcement is Oct. 23,
following reports of persistent trade deficits and slowing
consumer price inflation.  The balance of opinion on employment over the next year
declined to 26 points from the second-quarter reading of 53
percentage points, which equaled a record for the survey.  Investment-spending  intentions  fell to a three-year low of
8 percentage points from 24 percentage points. The survey of
about 100 executives was taken from Aug. 27 to Sept. 20.  The central bank’s main goal is to keep  inflation  in the
middle of a 1 percent to 3 percent band, and 95 percent of those
surveyed said the consumer-price index will remain in that range
over the next two years.  Executives said that credit conditions eased in the third
quarter. About 20 percent of companies said credit conditions
had eased, compared with 10 percent who said they had tightened
and 71 percent reporting they were unchanged.  A separate survey of senior  lending officers  had a balance
of opinion of negative 15.8 in the third quarter following the
prior reading of negative 10.8, with figures less than zero
indicating that lending conditions eased. The senior loan
officer survey gathered responses from Sept. 17 to Sept. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  