-- Carney Says Next Canada Forecast to Adjust for Risks
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-10-15T21:53:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/carney-says-next-canada-forecast-to-adjust-for-new-global-risks.html
Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney 
said his quarterly economic forecast next week will reflect a
prolonged global recovery, suggesting he may reduce his outlook
and delay raising policy interest rates.  Global demand is being curtailed due to uncertainty created
by the 19 crisis meetings of euro-zone leaders over the past two
years, Carney said, and by the impending so-called fiscal cliff
-- the $607 billion in U.S. spending cuts and tax increases
scheduled to take effect in January unless the  U.S. Congress 
acts.  The central bank’s new forecast “will take into account
the impact of the uncertainty,” Carney said in a speech today
in Nanaimo, British Columbia. He has said since April that
tighter policy “may become appropriate” as the economy moves
toward full output, a phrase he didn’t use today.  Canada ’s dollar erased gains after Carney’s remarks, his
last scheduled public appearance before the Oct. 23 interest-
rate decision and full economic forecast a day later. Canada’s
 key interest rate  has been at 1 percent for two years, the
longest pause since the 1950s.  “I would expect slight downgrades in their forecasts,”
next week, said Francis Fong, an economist in Toronto at
 Toronto-Dominion Bank. (TD)  “Their bias I suspect would remain in a
wait-and-see approach.”  The Canadian dollar closed little changed at 98.07 cents
per  U.S. dollar  in Toronto, after earlier rising as much as 0.3
percent. Yields on two-year benchmark  government bonds  fell 6
basis points to 1.08 percent.  Restraining Exports  “Elevated global uncertainty is holding back global
economic growth and, thus, the demand for Canadian exports,”
Carney said today. “There is some evidence that global
uncertainty is affecting domestic activity.”  The central bank is also tracking the Canadian dollar’s
strength when setting policy, Carney said. The currency has been
boosted by global capital inflows that are “a headwind to the
Canadian economy,” while foreign asset purchases have supported
domestic growth by lowering longer-term  interest rates , he said.
“In this uncertain world, then, Canada is rightly viewed as an
attractive investment destination,” Carney said.  In response to a question from the audience about the
currency strength, Carney said, “we have seen evidence of firms
taking advantage of that” to purchase productivity-enhancing
machinery and equipment, and that “we have a sustained need as
a country to continue that investment.”  At Odds  Finance chiefs left last weekend’s  International Monetary
Fund  and World Bank annual meetings in  Tokyo  at odds over how to
address signs of slowing growth in emerging-market economies
that threatens the global recovery, along with  Europe ’s debt
crisis. South Korea’s central bank chief urged  Asia  to add
stimulus as Russia and Brazil called on rich nations to address
their own challenges.  “The speech is making clear the situation could have a
material revision down on growth if this isn’t fixed,” said
 Paul Ferley , assistant chief economist at Royal Bank of Canada
in Toronto. The central bank may drop its inclination to raise
rates, he said.  Earlier today, the central bank released a survey that
showed Canadian businesses curbed their  expectations  for sales
growth, investment and hiring over the next year on signs of
weaker global demand.  Debt Loads  The Bank of Canada would be transparent if there were a
need to address record consumer debt loads, Carney said.  “If we were to lean against emerging imbalances in
household debt, we would clearly declare we are doing so and
indicate how long we expect it would take for inflation to
return to the 2 percent target,” Carney said.  Household debt  compared with disposable income jumped to a
record 165.8 percent in the second quarter,  Statistics Canada 
said today after revising data back to 1990, and revising the
country’s national accounts data for three decades.  The revisions are “relatively minor,” Carney told
reporters after the speech. The bank’s report next week will
“update our views of potential growth in Canada and obviously
our views on the output gap as a consequence of both of those
revisions and our views on potential and bring that as one
element of our outlook for growth and inflation in Canada.”  Regarding the country’s  housing market , Carney told
reporters the bank has been expecting a slowing “and we are
seeing signs of that.”  “We continue to watch the situation along with others very
closely,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  