-- Cegedim Said to Consider Asset Sales to Aid Loan Repayments
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2012-10-15T16:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/cegedim-said-to-consider-asset-sales-to-aid-term-loan-repayments.html
Cegedim SA (CGM) , a French information-
services provider to the medical industry, has identified three
non-core assets it could sell to help cover loan repayments in
the next two years, according to a person with knowledge of the
plans.  The Boulogne Billancourt, France-based company, which has
471 million euros ($610 million) of debt, is considering selling
 Cegelease , which provides leases for pharmacies,  Réseau National
de Promotion , a point-of-sale pharmaceutical advertising
company, and  SRH , a human resources and billing software
outsourcing service, said the person, who asked not to be
identified as the plans aren’t public.  Cegelease and RNP together generated about 122 million
euros of revenue in 2011, according to the company’s most recent
annual report.  Cegedim, which provides databases to doctors and
pharmacies, must repay 40 million euros of debt in 2012 and 2013
and has 80 million euros of annual capital expenditure,
according to estimates in an Oct. 9 report from Standard &
Poor’s.  The company expects to generate sufficient cash to cover
its loan payments and the asset sales would provide additional
headroom, the person said. It is also considering refinancing
its loans instead of the disposals, said the person.  Cegedim would consider asset sales if there is a mismatch
between free cash flow and amortization of the term loan at the
end of next year, a company spokesperson said in an e-mailed
reply to questions, who asked not to be identified citing
company rules.  Covenant Reset  The information provider, more than 50 percent owned by
founder Jean-Claude Labrune and his family, secured additional
breathing space on its loan terms earlier this month. In return
for higher interest payments Cegedim can keep its leverage ratio
at as much as 3.6 times earnings and its interest cover ratio at
least 3 times earnings for the period to December 2012. The
price of its outstanding bonds jumped about 8 percent to 94.71
cents on the euro after the news of the so-called covenant
reset, Bloomberg prices show.  Banks led by BNP Paribas SA,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and Societe
Generale SA provided 280 million euros of loans in June 2011,
including a 200 million-euro term loan and an 80 million-euro
credit line, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The term
loan now totals 160 million euros, the data show. Half of the
credit line has been drawn, S&P said.  The rating company said it was “concerned about Cegedim’s
ability to face financial obligations from June 2014”. It ranks
Cegedim at B, five levels below investment grade,  Cegedim  shares  surged as much as 8.6 percent to 15.5 euros
in Paris today, before closing at 14.68 euros, giving the French
company a market value of 205 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  