-- Cemex Loss Narrows as Housing Recovery Fuels U.S. Sales
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-10-15T20:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/cemex-loss-narrows-as-housing-recovery-fuels-u-s-sales.html
Cemex SAB (CEMEXCPO) , the largest cement maker
in the Americas, said its third-quarter loss narrowed as a
housing recovery propelled sales growth in the U.S. market.  The net loss attributable to controlling shareholders
shrank to $203 million from $730 million a year earlier, Cemex
said today. The company posted a revenue gain of 12 percent in
the U.S., where  housing starts  rebounded 57 percent in August
from an April 2009 low.  Cemex has reported 12 straight quarterly net losses,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, battered by a slump in
the U.S. construction market after its $14.2 billion acquisition
of Rinker Group Ltd. That company drew more than 80 percent of
sales from the U.S., where there were 1.04 million housing
starts in 2007, the year the deal was completed.  Operating earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, a measure of  cash flow  known as Ebitda, increased
9 percent to $730 million, in line with the company’s Oct. 4
forecast.  “This is the highest Ebitda generation since the third
quarter of 2009 and the fifth consecutive quarter with a year-
over-year Ebitda increase,” Cemex Chief Financial Officer
 Fernando Gonzalez  said in a  statement .  Cemex fell 0.4 percent to 11.32 pesos at the close in
Mexico City. The stock had gained 59 percent this year through
Oct. 12.  ‘Right Track’  Cemex reported $27 million in U.S. operating Ebitda, its
second straight quarter with a profit by that yardstick. U.S.
sales reached $826 million, the Monterrey, Mexico-based company
said.  “The U.S. had positive results in Ebitda terms again, and
that’s a favorable point in the report,” said  Carlos Hermosillo , an analyst at Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB, who has
a  buy  rating on the shares. “The main message is that the
company’s on the right track.”  In  South America , Central America and the Caribbean, sales
rose 15 percent with operating Ebitda climbing 25 percent to
$177 million.  Cemex’s total  revenue  dropped 2 percent to $3.9 billion,
according to a statement on the company’s website. That was in
line with a forecast earlier this month.  “In general, it was a positive report that the market had
probably already recognized in the share price,” Jorge Placido,
an analyst at Vector Casa de Bolsa in Mexico City, wrote in a
report today. He rates the shares hold.  European Declines  Third-quarter results included $168 million in expenses
mainly from a provision related to an outsourcing agreement with
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  announced in July. That
deal is expected to generate savings for Cemex of almost $1
billion over 10 years, Cemex said at the time.  Sales in Northern Europe fell 15 percent in the third
quarter compared with the same period a year earlier, to $1.1
billion. Sales in the Mediterranean region, which includes Spain
and  Egypt  among other countries, dropped 19 percent, including a
41 percent decline in Spanish cement volume and a 45 percent
decline in ready-mix concrete.  The company’s total debt plus perpetual notes stood at
$17.7 billion as of Sept. 30, down almost 4 percent from a year
earlier and little changed from the June 30 level. Free cash
flow after maintenance capital expenditures doubled over the
last year to $204 million in the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  