-- Cheap Gas From Fracking Fuels Profits at LyondellBasell
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-10-16T20:39:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/cheap-gas-from-fracking-fuels-profits-at-lyondellbasell-energy.html
Profit margins for ethylene, a
colorless gas used to ripen fruit, open flowers and make
products from plastic bags to paint removers, are surging to
near record levels and may climb further, reviving fortunes of
U.S. producers.  Two of the commodity’s largest makers,  LyondellBasell
Industries NV (LYB)  and  Westlake Chemical Co. (WLK) , have posted their
highest-ever profits and their shares have gained 66 percent and
91 percent respectively this year. Their margins will continue
to improve as constrained production capacity pushes up prices,
say Brian Maguire and Bob Koort, analysts at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. in Houston.  The driver is cheap shale gas, which is rejuvenating the
country’s  chemical industry  after a decade of decline. Hydraulic
fracturing of shale rock formations, known as fracking, cut U.S.
 gas prices  to a 10-year low in April. It has also produced an
oversupply of ethane, a natural gas component that is converted
to ethylene with heat and pressure in a process known as
cracking. Gas liquids, mostly ethane, supply about 85 percent of
the feedstock for U.S. ethylene makers.  Ethane at Mont Belvieu,  Texas , the main supply hub for Gulf
Coast chemical makers, has fallen 67 percent in a year to  31.6
cents a gallon.  Consumers and manufacturers alike benefit. Ethylene is the
raw material used to make polymers -- sturdy chemical compounds
that are building blocks for products in the transportation,
electronics, textiles, construction and packaging industries.  Peak Margins  Plastic bags and packaging are made from the polymer
polyethylene. Cheap ethane has cut the cost of producing
polyethylene-based products by about two-thirds from a 2008
peak, making the U.S. competitive with low-cost producers in the
 Middle East , according to an Oct. 9 report by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. The cost advantage may spur $30
billion of ethylene investments, Chevron Phillips Chemical Co.
said in March, including the first U.S. plants since 2001.  While the global ethylene industry operated at 85 percent
of capacity in August, the lowest since 2009, U.S. producers ran
flat out.  “We could see peak margins in 2015-16, before we see a new
wave of supply,” Maguire said in an interview. “It’s been 12
years since we built a new cracker in this country and we’ve
never tried to build four or five at the same time, so labor and
material constraints could cause these projects to be delayed.”  Ethane Advantage  Producers in  Asia  and  Europe , where fracking has yet to
catch on, rely on naphtha, an oil-derived raw material that’s
more expensive than ethane. LyondellBasell and Westlake produced
 ethylene  this year for an average of about 18 cents a pound
using ethane -- 20 cents less than naphtha-based producers --
while ethylene sold for about 49 cents a pound, according to
Maguire. Ethane-based production costs are currently about 13
cents a pound, he said. U.S. producers including  Dow Chemical
Co. (DOW)  are changing their processes to use more gas-derived liquids
such as ethane.  Ethylene margins will remain “very good” into early 2014
at least, said Jeffrey Burke, a New York-based portfolio manager
at Goldentree Asset Management, which includes Westlake shares
in $16.3 billion of assets.  Little new ethylene capacity will come on line in the next
several years, so global operating rates must rise to meet
demand, Maguire said. That will lead to higher prices that
should boost margins another 25 cents a pound by 2015 or 2016,
potentially doubling earnings for producers in the U.S., Maguire
said.  “That is something we’ve never seen before,” he said.  Earnings Leverage  Goldman recommends buying Houston-based Westlake,
controlled by the billionaire Chao family, and LyondellBasell
because both have more leverage to improving ethylene profit on
a per-share basis than neutral-rated Dow, the biggest U.S.
chemical company.  David Harpole , a LyondellBasell spokesman, declined to
comment.  “We have recently announced a number of initiatives that
expand our bottom line and take advantage of the low cost ethane
feedstock that shale gas is providing,” said Dave Hansen, a
Westlake spokesman. “This advantage will be with us for years
to come.”  Westlake rose 7.8 percent to $77.78 in  New York , the most
intraday since Aug. 2. LyondellBasell climbed 5.7 percent to
$54.36, the most since July 27. Dow gained 5.6 percent to
$29.91, the biggest advance since Nov. 30, 2011.  Still, ethylene margins face tests. Tighter operating rates
are relatively easy to forecast because new factories take years
to build. Yet if gas prices rise, so will the cost of ethane and
other feedstocks.  New Plants  UBS Securities LLC recommends selling Westlake shares
because of a looming increase in ethane costs that will narrow
margins, Gregg Goodnight, a Houston-based analyst, said in an
Aug. 27 note. Gas prices will rise in the fourth quarter and for
years after, leading ethane prices to double to 70 cents a
gallon by 2016, he said.  The correlation between gas and ethane prices isn’t as
strong as some believe, Goldman’s Maguire said, noting recent
price changes. Gas has surged 24 percent since touching a two-
month low on Aug. 28 while ethane has gained 5 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Higher gas prices aren’t a major threat to ethane prices
because processors and pipeline companies such as  Enterprise
Products Partners LP (EPD)  are willing to invest in added output, even
amid slim margins, Maguire said. That’s mostly because the
chemical industry is dangling the prospect of increased ethane
sales at higher profit when new ethylene plants open later in
the decade, he said.  Price ‘Umbrella’  Ethane supply growth through 2015 will be more than twice
demand growth from incremental ethylene expansions, keeping a
lid on ethane prices even if gas prices rise, Maguire said.
Average ethane prices may rise to 48 cents a gallon in 2013 from
45 cents this year, he said.  “The period of ethane oversupply is just beginning,”
Koort and Maguire said in an Oct. 9 report.  Ethane supplies will get a boost starting in the second
quarter when Enterprise and DCP Midstream LLC open separate
pipelines to bring natural gas liquids from Conway,  Kansas , to
Mont Belvieu, Maguire said.  In the meantime, ethylene demand should increase about 5
percent a year, assuming 3.5 percent global economic growth,
outpacing estimated annual supply growth of about 2 percent,
Maguire said.  Price Umbrella  Tightening ethylene supplies will allow the highest-cost
producers in Europe and Asia, which have coped with break-even
margins at times this year, to raise prices. Because ethylene
derivatives such as polyethylene, used in packaging and plastic
bags, are globally traded, higher prices provide an “umbrella”
under which U.S. producers can widen margins, he said.  When operating rates top 90 percent, ethylene buyers become
concerned about supply scarcity, giving producers more power to
raise prices, Maguire said. Cheap feedstock costs have led U.S.
producers to export about 10 percent of polyethylene production
and 40 percent of polyvinyl chloride, or PVC, used in pipe and
vinyl siding, he said.  Ethylene supplies should get tighter through 2017 when
 Chevron Phillips  opens the first of the new wave of U.S. plants,
P.J. Juvekar, a New York-based analyst at Citigroup Global
Markets, said in a report. In the meantime global operating
rates should rise and feedstock costs should remain relatively
low, he said in an Oct. 8 note.  Westlake Expansions  Juvekar recommends buying shares of Dow, the world’s
biggest ethylene producer, and LyondellBasell, and he doesn’t
rate Westlake.  Westlake plans to expand the cost benefit by adding
ethylene capacity in  Lake Charles ,  Louisiana , and making
adjustments to use more ethane, projects that will boost 2013
earnings by $1 a share, Maguire said. A new factory to make
chlorine, an energy-intensive process, will open in mid-2013 and
add another 60 cents to Westlake earnings next year, he said.
That will help earnings increase 29 percent next year to $7.14 a
share, Goldman estimates.  That’s higher than the rest of the  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg because other analysts aren’t fully accounting for
Westlake’s expansions and a continued feedstock advantage,
Maguire said.  Hassan Ahmed , a New York-based analyst at Alembic Global
Advisors who shares Goldman’s optimistic view of U.S. ethylene,
said rising operating rates combined with cheap ethane could
double earnings over several years at Westlake, LyondellBasell
and Dow, all of which he rates as a buy.  “The margin we are enjoying in the U.S. is exclusively
because of the cost advantage,” Ahmed said in a telephone
interview. “The next leg of the margin uptick will be because
of the cyclical upswing in utilization rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  