-- Check Arguments, Not Facts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-10-15T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/check-arguments-not-facts.html
This political campaign has been a
frustrating blizzard of numbers and studies.  One side says $344 billion over 21 years, then the other
side calls that a desperate lie and says the real number is up
to $1 trillion over the next decade. The first side then
attempts to validate its number by saying it comes from a recent
report by the authoritative Center for Boring Statistics, and
the second side says that, by contrast, its numbers are based on
the nonpartisan volume “Vicious Figures for Dummies, 3rd
Edition” (1958).  How is a citizen supposed to know whom to believe?  A number has to be taken on faith. In the extremely
partisan political culture where we now live, people believe the
statistics that come from someone on their side of the political
spectrum and disbelieve those from the other side.  This is actually pretty sensible. If you can’t
independently verify the number (and, if you have a job or a
child or two, you can’t), you rely on your assessment of the
source. If  Fox News  says one thing and  MSNBC  says another, you
naturally believe MSNBC. Even reporters trying to be neutral and
objective like to use a nice, fat think-tank study as a crutch.  Logic Prevails  There is an alternative. Many campaign thrusts and parries
can be verified or discredited by reason and logic alone. They
just don’t make sense (or, on occasion, they do make sense)
without reference to any numbers or studies. Reason doesn’t
require the approval of the  Congressional Budget Office . It is
available to anybody willing to take a minute and use it. And it
is self-validating. You don’t need to trust anybody to decide
whether reasoning is true or false.  For example, you don’t need any actual numbers to figure
out that Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  and his
running mate, Representative  Paul Ryan , are talking through
their hats about Medicare and Social Security.  Let’s look at just Social Security. Some people say it’s
not really in trouble, but let’s say that it is. The function of
Social Security is to write checks. Doing this more efficiently
would never save more than pocket change. If you want to improve
Social Security’s balance sheet by a dollar, you have only two
choices: Get an extra dollar from someone or take away a dollar
someone else was expecting. Both Romney and Ryan have signed
 Grover Norquist ’s ridiculous  no-new-taxes pledge , so getting an
additional dollar of revenue is out of the question.  Romney and Ryan have also pledged that any changes in
Medicare or  Social Security  will not affect anyone currently 55
or older. Why oldsters would want to be left out of reform, if
it’s going to be so wonderful, is a bit of a mystery. So are the
details of what Romney and Ryan have in mind. But those under
55, Ryan said in the  vice presidential debate , will have “a
voluntary choice of making their money work faster for them
within the Social Security system.”  What he means here is not clear. What he is trying to imply
is very clear: that younger people will be able to keep their
currently promised benefits, unless they make the “voluntary
choice” of something else. And if this is correct, it’s clear
what will follow: People will choose current arrangements unless
the alternative is more beneficial. There is no way any “reform”
that is voluntary can make Social Security cost less. It can
only make the program cost more.  Undoubtedly, the alternative Ryan and Romney have in mind
is some form of privatization, in which beneficiaries get less
money from the government than under current arrangements
(otherwise, what’s the point?) and are invited to make up the
difference themselves on the stock market. Privatization cannot
work. (This is a  mathematical certainty , not an opinion.)  Reason Abides  One more example of an issue where reason alone (or just
call it common sense) is good enough -- numbers and studies not
needed -- is Romney’s proposed 20 percent across-the-board  tax
cut . It would cost $5 trillion, a figure Romney and Ryan no
longer contest except to say that the real figure is $4.8
trillion. All right, let’s make it $4.8 trillion. They say the
lost revenue will be made up through closing of loopholes, but
they refuse to reveal which loopholes they have in mind. They
say this should be left to bipartisan discussion of the sort
 Ronald Reagan  used to have with  Tip O’Neill .  Speaking if I may for the late Democratic speaker of the
House, I strongly suspect that he would not have objected if a
Republican presidential nominee wanted to reveal, in the middle
of a campaign, whose loopholes he wanted to close. Home mortgage
interest? Charitable contributions? And I feel certain that Tip
would have wondered -- or, more accurately, he would not have
wondered -- why the loophole-closing should be bipartisan while
the rate cut is something the Republican president can do and
take credit for all by himself.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how  Spain  can stop  Catalonian
secession  and on  Romney’s still-missing numbers ;  Edward Glaeser 
on the  winner of the economics Nobel ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on
Republicans using the  Benghazi attack to undermine Obama ;
William Pesek on  “Gangnam Style” and South Korea’s economy ;
 Ramesh Ponnuru  on why  both candidates are wrong on China ; Carmen
M. Reinhart and Kenneth S. Rogoff on why  U.S. financial crises 
aren’t different.  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net  or @michaelkinsley on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 