-- China Inflation Cools Amid Signs of Stable Economy Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-17T03:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/china-inflation-close-to-slowest-pace-in-two-years-at-1-9-1-.html
(Corrects number of economists to six in penultimate
paragraph.)  China ’s inflation was close to the
slowest pace in two years in September, giving the government
room to ease policies should the economy deteriorate.  Consumer prices rose 1.9 percent from a year earlier while
the producer-price index dropped 3.6 percent, the  National
Bureau of Statistics  said on its website today. China’s imports
increased 2.4 percent from a year earlier while overseas
shipments climbed 9.9 percent, the customs administration said
on Oct. 13.  A report this week may show the nation’s  expansion  slid to
7.4 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, the
seventh straight deceleration, underscoring International
Monetary Fund warnings that weakening growth in developed
economies is spreading to  emerging markets . At the same time,
there are signs China’s economy is stabilizing after exports
exceeded estimates in September and money supply grew at the
fastest pace in 15 months.  “Muted inflation pressure will provide more room for the
government to introduce additional policy easing or stimulus
measures,” said Lu Ting, chief China economist at Bank of
America Corp. in Hong Kong. “The top task for the central bank
now is to prevent growth from slowing further while stemming the
rebound in home prices, which is the major constraint for easing
in 2012.”  Asian stocks swung between gains and losses as concern the
global economic slowdown is deepening was countered by China’s
easing inflation and better-than-expected export data. The
regional benchmark  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  was unchanged at 3:25
p.m. in Tokyo.  Stimulus Response  In China, the Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.9 percent at
2:26 p.m. local time on concern third-quarter corporate earnings
will be weaker. The  yuan  was little changed at 6.2676 per
dollar, close to a 19-year high.  China has refrained from implementing stimulus on the scale
of the 4 trillion yuan ($586 billion at the time) package it
unleashed at the end of 2008 during the global financial crisis,
confining its response to measures such as two cuts in  interest
rates , reductions in bank reserve requirements, tax decreases,
higher spending on social welfare and accelerated investment
approvals.  At an IMF meeting in  Tokyo  on Oct. 13 and 14, People’s Bank
of China Deputy Governor Yi Gang said that while policy makers
will provide “appropriate” stimulus to stabilize growth, the
central bank’s main task is price stability and warned that
bubble risks remain in housing markets in major cities. China’s
Xinhua News Agency cited Yi as saying that the nation has
“relatively large room” for use of monetary and fiscal
policies compared with some countries.  Slower Growth  China’s food-price gains slowed to 2.5 percent in September
from 3.4 percent in August as pork costs slid, today’s report
showed. Non-food inflation accelerated to 1.7 percent from 1.4
percent. Producer prices fell 3.6 percent, the seventh straight
decline.  Credit Agricole CIB says the increase in consumer prices
could quicken to 4 percent by year-end on food costs, while
Standard Chartered Plc projects a pace as high as 5 percent next
year.  The economy probably grew 7.4 percent from a year earlier,
the weakest expansion since the first quarter of 2009, according
to the median  forecast  in a Bloomberg survey ahead of the report
due on Oct. 18.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum producer,
cut its forecast for global consumption of the metal on slowing
Chinese demand.  Retail Sales  Elsewhere in Asia today, Australian home-loan approvals
rose in August from a month earlier by the most since November
2011 as buyers responded to the central bank’s interest-rate
cuts.  Indian inflation accelerated to a 10-month high in
September after an increase in diesel prices, a Commerce
Ministry report showed today. The wholesale-price index rose
7.81 percent from a year earlier.  Retail sales in the U.S. probably rose 0.8 percent last
month, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. Manufacturing in the  New York  region probably
shrank 4 percent in October, economists in a separate survey
predicted.  M2, China’s broadest measure of money supply, climbed 14.8
percent last month, a central bank report showed on Oct. 13,
even as lending was less than analysts’ estimates.  The government says it’s aiming for full-year inflation of
about 4 percent this year and economic growth of 7.5 percent.
Six out of 40 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News from Sept.
11 to Sept. 18 forecast the nation’s full-year expansion will
slow to 7.5 percent from 9.3 percent last year.  The IMF last week cut its estimate for China’s economic
growth this year to 7.8 percent, saying a “hard landing is a
low probability.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  