-- Citigroup Sees Economic Slump Tempering Underwriting Rebound
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-10-15T13:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/citigroup-sees-economic-slump-tempering-underwriting-rebound-1-.html
Global debt and equity underwriting
will probably remain unchanged next year as sluggish economic
growth and an uncertain outlook restrain demand for securities,
said Tyler Dickson, who oversees the business at  Citigroup Inc. (C)   “In 2013, we expect similar activity levels to 2012, from
large investment grade companies to small high-growth initial
public offerings,” Dickson, head of global markets origination
for the New York-based bank, said in an interview in Tokyo on
Oct. 13. “Given the environment, volume will be lower than peak
levels, but all the major capital markets will be open.”  The  International Monetary Fund  warned last week that the
global economic slowdown may deepen without a resolution to the
 European debt crisis  and the looming U.S. fiscal cliff. Growth
in countries such as  Brazil ,  India  and  China  is faltering, and
European Union leaders meeting this week will need to tackle
safeguarding the currency. Investors are less willing to bet on
first-time share sales against this backdrop, said Dickson.  “If you’re a public company, you have a lot of
opportunity,” Dickson, 45, said. “Unless there’s a seismic
shift in appetite for riskier assets and stronger outlook for
growth, we expect that the IPO market will remain selective.”  Citigroup this year jumped to second among underwriters of
global stock sales, the highest since 2007, from sixth in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The firm, the third-
ranked arranger of global bonds sales this year, today posted a
32 percent jump in debt underwriting revenue in the third
quarter to $590 million. Equity underwriting revenue rose 34
percent to $142 million, Citigroup said.  The firm gained “wallet share” this year in all major
products and in most regions, the firm said as it posted a $468
million profit for the quarter.  Bond Offerings  Companies selling stock to cut debt and private equity
firms offering shares in businesses they own made up the bulk of
equity  capital markets  activity this year, according to Dickson.
That trend will probably continue in 2013, he said.  Dickson said he expects more bond sales than equity
offerings and the U.S. market will continue to dominate.  “There will be a bid for less risky and riskier assets
with a bias for fixed income,” he said. “This year was heavily
weighted by the U.S. market, with much less activity in the
international markets and that probably carries over to 2013.”  The pace of IPOs slowed last quarter to the second-lowest
level since the financial crisis. In  Europe , the pace is at a
three-year low as the sovereign debt crisis weighs on deals.  In Asian markets such as  Hong Kong , accounting missteps
involving mainland Chinese companies that were listed in recent
years has sapped investor demand for IPOs.  ‘Adjustment Period’  “Asia IPO markets are going through an adjustment period
based on investors’ changing views on growth,” said Dickson.
“Europe has consistently been more challenged for IPOs, with
more of boom-or-bust windows than the rest of the world. We
expect that to be the case given continued challenges with the
 euro zone .”  Notwithstanding the slump, Dickson said he doesn’t expect
to cut jobs.  “We feel properly positioned and sized,” he said. “Citi
has been very disciplined with respect to revenue generation and
cost,” he said. “We will remain focused on both.”  While some banks are scaling back their operations that
trade stocks in Europe and arrange IPOs, that trend hasn’t
translated into less competition, Dickson said.  “In the current low volume environment, competition is
fierce for all business activity in Europe,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in  Tokyo  at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  