-- CNH Global Spurns $1.1 Billion Offer From Fiat Industrial
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-10-15T16:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/cnh-committee-rejects-fiat-merger-bid-as-inadequate-.html
CNH Global NV (CNH)  rejected a buyout
offer from parent  Fiat Industrial SpA (FI)  in a blow to Chairman
 Sergio Marchionne ’s plan to move the truck and tractor maker’s
primary listing to  New York  from Milan.  “We have unanimously concluded that the proposal is
inadequate,” a CNH special committee evaluating the offer said
in a statement today. Fiat Industrial, which  owns  88 percent of
CNH, had been seeking to buy the remaining stake -- valued at
$1.1 billion based on the stock’s latest closing price -- as
part of a proposal made in May.  Marchionne, who’s targeted 25 billion euros ($32 billion)
in sales for Fiat Industrial this year, is seeking to create the
world’s third-largest capital-goods company in the combination.
The merged entity would have a product range spanning Iveco
delivery trucks, New Holland harvesters and FPT ship engines.  “The news is negative as the deal is at risk,” Massimo Vecchio, a Mediobanca analyst in Milan, wrote today in a note to
clients. “In the best case it will be significantly delayed and
executed with worse terms.”  CNH rose as much as 97 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $41.23 and
was up 2.3 percent as of 12:34 p.m. in New York trading. The
stock has gained 14 percent this year, valuing the American
company at $9.88 billion. Fiat Industrial  fell  3 cents, or 0.3
percent, to 7.81 euros at the close of trading in Milan.  Moving Forward  Fiat Industrial proposed May 30 that a new company be
created in a share exchange with no premium for CNH
shareholders. A recommendation from the committee was a
prerequisite for the deal, according to today’s statement. The
CNH committee remains available to consider alternatives should
Fiat Industrial amend its bid, it said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  advised the committee.  The Italian manufacturer still wants to go ahead with the
combination, it said today in a statement.  Fiat Industrial has
asked its advisors to meet with CNH to determine “the basis for
this decision and explore whether the parties can reach
agreement on revised terms for a merger transaction on a basis
broadly consistent with the initial proposal,” it said.  Fiat Industrial “remains committed to the strategic and
financial benefits of the merger,” Marchionne said today in the
statement. Fiat Industrial said it aims to reach a new agreement
with CNH within the next several weeks.  Debt Crisis  Marchionne said Oct. 12 the merger wouldn’t go ahead this
year as planned because the  European debt crisis  had complicated
CNH’s special committee evaluation. While the European crisis
has made an evaluation of the companies more difficult, the
delay won’t change the terms of the deal, he said last week.  Fiat Industrial, spun off from carmaker  Fiat SpA (F)  last year,
is reorganizing in response to the debt crisis in  Europe . Its
Iveco truck unit announced plans on July 1 to shut five plants
in Europe by the end of 2012 because of the sovereign-debt
crisis in the region.  The rejection of the offer, which was viewed by analysts
and investors as a precursor to a similar move by Fiat, may
delay Marchionne’s plan to merge the Italian carmaker with
Chrysler Group LLC.  “The difficulties in changing the structure at Fiat
Industrial probably also dampens the hopes of Fiat SpA bulls
that we will see a similar transaction happen at Chrysler,”
said  David Arnold , a Credit Suisse analyst in  London .  Fiat, which owns 58.5 percent of the U.S. automaker, aims
to merge the two carmakers to boost revenue to more than 100
billion euros in 2014. Marchionne hasn’t disclosed yet where the
combined entity will be listed and based.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  