-- Colombia Ditches Brazil at IMF as BRIC Power Estranges Neighbors
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-10-15T02:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/colombia-ditches-brazil-at-imf-as-bric-power-estranges-neighbors.html
Colombia is leaving a group at the
International Monetary Fund led by  Brazil , whose quest for
influence as a member of the BRICS group of emerging markets is
alienating some of its smaller, Spanish-speaking neighbors.  Instead of Brazil’s nine-nation constituency on the IMF’s
24-member executive board, the Andean nation will join forces
with a group led by Mexico, Colombian central bank chief Jose Dario Uribe said in an Oct. 13 interview in  Tokyo . The move is
part of the IMF’s biggest board reshuffle in two decades.  Brazil has been one of the most vocal of the IMF’s 188
members, pushing policy makers to grant emerging markets a
bigger say at the Washington-based lender and criticizing many
of its policy prescriptions. The country’s increasing clout on
the global stage makes it challenging for a nation like Colombia
to be heard, said Bessma Momani,  a political science professor 
at the University of Waterloo in  Canada  and IMF specialist.  “It can be difficult to be in a group with a rising
economic power like Brazil” that “can be self-centered in its
pursuit of its agenda,” Momani said in an Oct. 13 interview in
Tokyo. “Without Colombia, Brazilians are freer to act as they
will, but losing a Spanish-speaking country doesn’t help its
legitimacy as a regional power.”  Uribe, in an interview at the IMF meetings, didn’t say
whether the decision to switch chairs was motivated by any
disagreement with Brazil.  “It’s a group where there’s a receptivity toward a country
like Colombia, where there are great historical and commercial
ties,” Uribe said of Mexico. He said details of the move will
be announced later.  Votes Lost  As part of its new group, Colombia will share leadership
responsibilities on a rotating basis with  Mexico , Spain and
 Venezuela , Mexican Deputy Finance Minister Gerardo Rodriguez
said in an interview also in Tokyo.  Nicaragua , and the Portuguese-speaking nations of Cape
Verde and East Timor will be added to the constituency
represented by Brazilian executive board director Paulo Nogueira Batista, according to an IMF document obtained by Bloomberg
News.  Still, the three countries combined have fewer than half of
the 8,477 votes corresponding to Colombia, meaning the country’s
departure will  reduce Brazil’s voting share  on the board.
Colombia is the biggest of eight Latin American nations that
belong to Brazil’s constituency, a group that also includes the
Dominican Republic,  Ecuador  and Trinidad & Tobago.  Domenico Lombardi, a senior fellow at the Brookings
Institution in  Washington , said the loss of Colombia is
reversible for Brazil as it sees its voting share increase in
successive shifts on the board.  “Clearly there is a short term negative effect but this is
likely to be compensated in the medium term,” said Lombardi,
who has served on the boards of the IMF and World Bank.  Mexico Rising  Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos’ government has
boosted ties with Mexico, which Nomura Securities forecasts
could overtake Brazil as Latin America’s No. 1 economy within a
decade. Currently Brazil’s $2.4 trillion economy is more than
twice the size of Mexico’s, according to IMF data.  Mexico and Colombia came together earlier this year to
create the Pacific Alliance of the region’s most-open economies,
distancing themselves from the Brazil and Argentina-led Mercosur
trade pact, which has been raising import restrictions amid the
global economic slowdown. Colombia also followed Mexico, Peru
and Chile -- all members of the fledgling trade group -- and
implemented a free trade agreement with the U.S.  European Shift  The movements on the  IMF board , which approves loans and
economic assessments of member countries, aren’t limited to
emerging economies.  Europe  is making changes in its
constituencies to meet a 2010 pledge to reduce representation by
two chairs in favor of developing economies.  Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands are forming their
own group, along with countries currently represented by the
Netherlands, Belgian Finance Minister Steven Vanackere told the
IMF’s steering committee Oct. 13.  Turkey ,  Austria , the Czech
Republic and  Hungary  are now in a group as well, and will rotate
as executive directors, he said.  The chair of Nordic countries will extend its rotation to
Baltic members of the group, Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg said.  The European moves were criticized by Brazil and South
Africa. Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega called them
“cosmetic,” saying they mainly help  emerging markets  within
Europe.  “This of course fails to correct the overrepresentation of
Europe in the board, sending yet another negative signal to the
outside world,” Mantega said in his speech to IMF members in
Tokyo.  The Brazilian Finance Ministry did not respond to an e-mail
requesting comment about Colombia’s move to the Mexican chair.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Tokyo at  srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Tokyo at  mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  