-- Corn Belt Shifts North With Climate as Kansas Crop Dies
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-10-15T20:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/corn-belt-shifts-north-with-climate-as-kansas-crop-dies.html
Joe Waldman is saying goodbye to
corn after yet another hot and dry summer convinced the  Kansas 
farmer that rainfall won’t be there when he needs it anymore.  “I finally just said uncle,” said Waldman, 52, surveying
his stunted crop about 100 miles north of Dodge City. Instead,
he will expand  sorghum , which requires less rain, let some
fields remain fallow and restrict corn to irrigated fields.  While farmers nationwide planted the most corn this year
since 1937, growers in Kansas sowed the fewest acres in three
years, instead turning to less-thirsty crops such as  wheat ,
sorghum and even triticale, a wheat-rye mix popular in  Poland .
Meanwhile, corn acreage in Manitoba, a Canadian province about
700 miles north of Kansas, has nearly doubled over the past
decade due to weather changes and higher prices.  Shifts such as these reflect a view among food producers
that this summer’s drought in the U.S. -- the worst in half a
century -- isn’t a random disaster. It’s a glimpse of a future
altered by climate change that will affect worldwide production.  “These changes are happening faster than plants can adapt,
so we will see substantial impacts on global growing patterns,”
said Axel Schmidt, a former senior scientist for the
International Center for Tropical Agriculture now with Catholic
Relief Services.  While there is still debate about how human activity is
altering the climate, agriculture is already adapting to
shifting weather patterns.  Northward Shift  Agribusiness giant Cargill Inc. is investing in northern
U.S. facilities, anticipating increased grain production in that
part of the country, said  Greg Page , the chief executive officer
of the Minneapolis-based company.  “The number of rail cars, the number of silos, the amount
of loading capacity” all change, Page said in an interview in
 New York . “You can see capital go to where there is ability to
produce more tons per acre.”  Losses in some areas will mean gains in others, Page said.
A native of Bottineau, a small town on  North Dakota ’s border
with  Canada , Page said that when he was in high school in the
1960s, “you could grow wheat -- or wheat. That was it,” he
said.  “You go to that very same place today -- they can grow
soybeans, they can grow canola, they can grow corn, they can
grow field peas and export them to  India ,” he said. “A lot of
that has been to do with the fact that they have six, eight days
more of frost-free weather.”  Reduced Harvest  This year’s U.S. drought was the most severe since 1954,
according to the  Palmer Drought Index , which has measured such
weather phenomena since 1895. The hot, dry conditions pushed
estimates for the country’s corn harvest to the lowest level in
six years and the projected average cash price to an all-time
high.  September was the 331th consecutive month in which
temperatures worldwide topped the 20th-century average, the  U.S.
National Climatic Data Center  said today. Corn futures in
 Chicago , which reached a record $8.49 a bushel in August, have
since declined 13 percent, closing today at $7.325.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  this year updated its
 plant hardiness  map for the first time since 1990, shifting many
regions into zones that are 5 degrees Fahrenheit warmer than in
the late 20th century.  The data show a climate in transition, with agriculture
needing to adapt, said Wolfram Schlenker, an environmental
economist at  Columbia University  in New York. Even small changes
in average temperature may shift climate patterns, affecting
rainfall, evaporation rates and the ability of plants to thrive
in certain environments, he said.  Crop Signals  “We’ll see a real mix of crop signals and climate
signals,” he said in an interview. For farmers in poorer
countries, adaptation to new weather patterns “can be a matter
of life and death,” he said.  Crop insurance paid out to farmers experiencing lost yields
may top $25 billion this year, with the biggest losses
concentrated in Midwest states, according to  Kansas State
University . Corn yields may average 122 bushels an acre this
year, the lowest since 1995, the USDA said last week.  Western Kansas is in its second year of severe drought.
Last year was the third-driest in Dodge City since record-
keeping began in 1900; this year, the town’s temperatures were
above-average every month through July.  Ebbing Ogalalla  Weather has always been harsh in the region where Dust Bowl
storms first blew, requiring farmers to rely on low-water crops
like wheat to survive. The harnessing of the Ogalalla Aquifer, a
massive underground lake that runs from  South Dakota  to west
Texas provides about 30 percent of U.S. irrigation groundwater,
has allowed corn to flower where rainfall can’t support it. New
varieties of hybrid plants and genetically modified seed have
also helped.  That expansion may be ebbing with the drought, and the
Ogalalla.  Ty Rumford, who manages  High Choice Feeders LLC  south of
Scott City, Kansas, is planting less corn and more triticale to
feed the 37,000 animals in his company’s two feed yards. A
hardier crop is necessary as water availability falls, he said.  “When the wells were put down here in the ‘40s, they went
30 foot down into a 180-foot-deep aquifer,’’ he said. ‘‘Those
wells were pumping 1,500, 2,000 gallons a minute in the ‘50s.
Now we’re at 135 feet deep, and they’re pumping 200, 250 a
minute. We’ve got to make sure we have enough water.”  Triticale works for feedlots because it’s used on-site in
cattle rations, lowering costs, Rumford said. Its appeal is less
for farmers who grow crops for the marketplace, he said.  “We’re consuming everything we grow, so it’s not important
to have an outside market” for triticale, he said.  Most Valuable  Corn, meanwhile, is too embedded in American life to lose
its position as the country’s most valuable crop, Rumford said.
The grain was worth $76.5 billion last year, more than twice the
value of soybeans and five times that of wheat.  Most U.S. ethanol comes from corn. Cattle eat corn. High-
fructose corn syrup is a common sugar substitute. Shippers such
as Cargill and Archer Daniels Midland Co., based in Decatur,
 Illinois , are set up to trade and process corn. Farmers buying
insurance against losses have a wealth of data for the grain.
Policies for triticale, canola, or edible beans, for example,
are less common in Kansas because of a lack of actuarial data.  For the most part, the country’s mid-section, with its
infrastructure, its soil and its usually beneficial weather,
will remain the nation’s Corn Belt, said Jerry Rowe, manager of
the Heritage Grain Cooperative in Dalton City, Illinois,
traditionally the second-biggest corn-producing state.  ‘All Economics’  “I don’t have a place to store pinto beans, OK?” said
Rowe, who has managed his community’s grain elevator for 25
years. “This is corn and soybean ground. The reason someone
else is more diverse is because there’s more money in being
diverse. It’s all economics.”  Still, the hotter, dryer weather pattern may change crop
rotations even in the heart of the Corn Belt. “Wheat acres will
be very high” next year, said Tabitha Craig, who sells crop
insurance for  Young Enterprises Inc ., an agricultural services
and input dealer in New Hartford,  Missouri .  Climate change  will probably push corn-growing regions
north while making alternatives to the grain more important
elsewhere, said John Soper, the vice president of crop genetics
research and development for Pioneer, the seed division of
DuPont Co. The company’s researchers anticipate more corn in
Saskatchewan and Manitoba, traditional Canadian wheat-growing
areas, while sorghum and sunflowers may experience a revival in
Kansas as rainfall declines and irrigation becomes less
practical, he said.  Better Seeds  The company is developing new varieties of corn, both in
traditional hybrid and genetically modified seeds, while
boosting research in sorghum and other crops that don’t need
irrigation in areas where they’re expected to make a comeback,
he said.  Still, fighting drought with better seeds and new trade
sources only mitigates the effects of climate change, said Roger
Beachy, the first head of the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s
National Institute for Food and Agriculture and now a plant
biology professor at  Washington University  in  St. Louis . New
crops -- and new markets for those crops -- will be needed to
ease what will be a wrenching transition for some farmers and
consumers, he said.  “We need to use biodiversity and crop varieties to our
advantage,” said Beachy, whose work with Monsanto in the 1980s
and 1990s led to the first genetically modified food crop.  “Can a farmer make as much money raising chickpeas as
corn? You have to create value for the farmer. We need to get
the scientists and the economists talking to one another about
this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  