-- Cosan, Ultrapar Fall on Concern Over Price Cuts: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-10-15T21:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/cosan-ultrapar-fall-on-concern-over-price-cuts-sao-paulo-mover.html
Cosan SA Industria & Comercio and
 Ultrapar Participacoes SA (UGPA3)  slumped as IstoE magazine reported
that Brazil may have state-run  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ’s gas
station chain reduce prices in an effort to force competing
companies to follow suit.  Cosan fell 4.5 percent to 36.86 reais at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo. Ultrapar slid 7.2 percent to 42.70 reais,
the steepest one-day decline since August 2011. The benchmark
Bovespa index gained 0.7 percent.  President Dilma Rouseff’s administration is analyzing the
possibility of ordering Petrobras Distribuidora, the Brazilian
oil company’s distributor, to cut gasoline and diesel prices in
gas stations to force Cosan’s subsidiary Raizen and Ultrapar’s
Ipiranga chain to lower fuel prices, IstoE magazine columnist
Guilherme Barros reported on Oct. 12, without saying where he
got the information.  “Cosan and Ultrapar would have to follow, otherwise they
would lose market share, because for drivers it does not matter
so much fuel brand, but prices,” Erick Scott Hood, an analyst
at brokerage SLW Corretora, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “And
a reduction could affect those companies’ earnings.”  Brazil ’s Finance Ministry declined to comment in an e-
mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News. The country’s
Mines and Energy Ministry’s press office didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment. Petrobras Distribuidora’s
press official couldn’t be reached by phone for comment.  Cosan gained 37 percent this year, while Ultrapar surged 33
percent during that same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  