-- Costa Concordia Captain Faces Victims at Hearing on Sinking
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-10-15T12:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/costa-concordia-captain-faces-victims-at-hearing-on-sinking.html
Francesco Schettino faced survivors
and relatives of the victims of the  Carnival Corp (CCL) ’s Costa
Concordia for the first time since the sinking of the cruise
ship he captained as he appeared in court to hear the evidence
against him.  “The truth needs to be cleared up,” Schettino told one
survivor at the closed-door hearing, news agency Ansa reported.
The man had approached him to shake hands, expressing his wish
that “the truth will come out soon,” Ansa said. The hearing
was held in a theater in Grosseto,  Italy  to handle the hundreds
of survivors and families of some of the 32 victims of the
sinking.  “It has been a normal hearing with the defense raising
some procedural exceptions,” Francesco Pepe, one of Schettino’s
lawyers, said in an interview with SkyTG24.  The hearings on the experts’ review will allow a judge to
decide whether to go ahead with a trial against Schettino for
his role in the disaster off the Tuscan coast in January. He is
accused of steering the ship with more than 4,000 passengers on
board too closely to the island of Giglio as a way of saluting
the inhabitants and a veteran captain of the Costa line.
Schettino is accused of leaving the ship before all passengers
were evacuated.  The experts’ review of the black box recordings may also
clarify any possible responsibility of Costa Crociere SpA.
Carnival’s Italian unit said Sept. 13 that accusations that its
staff was unprepared for emergencies is “without foundation” and
blamed the captain for an untimely and partial communication
with the company. Costa Crociere is not targeted in the probe.  Ship Listing  Coast Guard Commander Gregorio Maria De Falco repeatedly
ordered Schettino to get back on the cruise liner, at times
swearing at the captain, court documents show. Schettino
initially told the official that only 40 people remained on the
ship at a time when hundreds were still trying to evacuate. The
ship began listing, complicating efforts to lower lifeboats and
forcing passenger to move across the exposed hull to reach
rescue boats.  Schettino insists that he saved hundreds of lives by
maneuvering the stricken ship close to the shore of Giglio after
it struck a reef and began taking on water. Schettino is
appealing his dismissal by Costa Crociere, his lawyer said in a
statement Oct. 10.  The Costa Concordia still lies on its side in relatively
shallow water off of Giglio. The company plans to refloat the
ship and remove it next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in  Rome  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net . 