-- Coutts’ Dugan Sees Bond Market ‘Bubble’ Amid Push to Equity
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-10-15T11:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/coutts-dugan-sees-bond-market-bubble-amid-push-to-equity-1-.html
Coutts & Co., the wealth management
unit of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , is advising clients to
shift from bonds into equities amid tumbling yields.  “The bond market looks like a big bubble,” Gary Dugan,
chief investment officer for the bank in Asia and the Middle
East, said in an interview today. “There are all the hallmarks
of this being total over-exuberance in an asset class.”  Yields on emerging market debt tumbled 140 basis points, or
1.4 percentage points, to an all-time low of 4.44 percent on
Oct. 12, according to the JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Diversified Blended Yield index. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index
gained 9 percent so far this year, compared with an advance of
11 percent for the MSCI World Index of developed global markets.  “You’ve got to say that the absolute levels of yields are
inappropriately low and they’re largely a reflection of a one-
way bet that retail and central banks have been making on bond
markets,” Dugan said from Dubai. “People don’t even look at
the name any more, they just look at the yield.”  Negative News  Coutts, which counts Queen Elizabeth II among its clients,
“is moving slowly out of bonds and into equity,” said Dugan,
hired from Dubai-based Emirates NBD in July. The bank, which
manages money for wealthy individuals including billionaires, is
advising clients to buy equities on “weak” days where there is
negative news on the Eurozone and Spain, he said.  European leaders meet this week as  Greece  seeks to justify
renewed aid and Spain holds out on tapping a bailout. The yield
on  Spanish 10-year bonds  dropped 20 basis points to 5.625
percent in three days through Oct. 12.  “I think the greatest risk over the next 12 months is that
people are going to lose money on bonds,” Dugan said. “There’s
a huge wave of capital going in at the top of the market.”  Over the past three years, approximately $1 trillion has
been invested into bond markets, while about $300 billion has
come out of equity markets, Dugan said. Reinvesting some of that
back into equities would cause markets to rally, he said.  “Even just a modest adjustment of that you’d have equity
markets spiking higher,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  