-- Crazy Medea Kills Children, Love Rival in Paris Revival: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-10-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/crazy-medea-kills-children-love-rival-in-paris-revival-review.html
There must be at least a dozen
operas telling the story of Medea, the jealous princess who
poisons her rival and punishes her unfaithful husband by killing
her own children.  Three of them can be watched in the coming weeks at the
Theatre des Champs-Elysees in Paris.  The cycle has just started with Marc-Antoine Charpentier’s
“Medee.” Its 1693 premiere at the Academie Royale de Musique
was remarkable in two respects.  It was the only full-scale opera that Charpentier, though
an acclaimed composer of incidental music for Moliere’s plays,
was allowed to write. He had to wait for the death of Jean-
Baptiste Lully who defended his royal monopoly on “tragedies en
musique” tooth and nail.  To set the ancient myth of Medea to music at that
particular time was bound to awaken unpleasant memories: A few
years earlier, the court of Louis XIV had been rattled by the
discovery that a number of noblewomen were resorting to poison
and witchcraft.  Although the king shielded his mistress, Madame de
Montespan, from prosecution, the suspicion that she had poisoned
a rival, Mademoiselle de Fontanges, still lingered in many
minds.  Was that the reason why Charpentier’s opera had such a
short life? Or was it the intrigues of envious Lullystes? We
don’t know.  Disappearing Medea  At any rate, “Medee” disappeared after a few performances
and re-emerged only in 1984 when  Robert Wilson  staged it in
Lyon.  Today, it’s recognized as arguably the finest French opera
of the 17th century. William Christie, Charpentier’s most ardent
champion, has recorded it not once but twice.  “Medee” tells a gruesome story. Yet it does so in the
formal manner established by Lully -- with a prologue in praise
of the king, with grandiose choruses and lengthy dance
interludes.  Pierre Audi, the director, and Jonathan Meese, the set
designer, have chosen to ignore the courtly conventions. The
singers appear in modern dress, and the stage is dominated by
Meese’s crude, Neo-Expressionist backdrops.  Some of his images are quite effective; others reminded me
of the graffiti on the  Berlin Wall  or, as one art critic said of
Meese’s installations, “overloaded adolescent bedrooms.”  What suffers most from the unorthodox approach is the
dances. They look like strange physical exercises.  Cassius Conducting  At the curtain calls on opening night, Emmanuelle Haim was
greeted with some boos. Although one could object to her
conducting technique, which she seems to have learned from
Cassius Clay, I found the sound of Le Concert d’Astree, her
period-instrument ensemble, wonderfully muscular and dramatic.
The chorus, too, is first-rate.  The young Canadian mezzo Michele Losier, who sings the
title role, seems overtaxed by Medea’s outbursts of hatred. The
countertenor Anders Dahlin is a dry Jason, the feckless father
of her children.  Sophie Karthauser remains bland as Creuse, Jason’s new love
interest. Laurent Naouri as her father Creon, Oedipus’s brother-
in-law, is powerful though a bit rough.  They’re all overshadowed by Stephane Degout in the
relatively minor role of Oronte, another of Creuse’s admirers.
With his firm, juicy baritone, he easily steals the show.  “Medee” is in repertory through Oct. 23.  Rating **.  On Nov. 9 and 10, the Theatre des Champs-Elysees presents
Pascal Dusapin’s 1992 opera “Medea”, adapted by the director
and choreographer Sasha Waltz, an import from Berlin.  From Dec. 10 to 16, Luigi Cherubinis “Medea”, one of
 Maria Callas ’s warhorses, follows, directed by the Polish
iconoclast Krzysztof Warlikowski and conducted by Christophe
Rousset. Nadja Michael sings the title role.  Information:  http://www.theatrechampselysees.fr  or
+33-1-4952-5050.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food and  Amanda
Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 