-- Cypriot Leader Vows to Defy Troika, Seeks Bailout Backing
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-10-15T12:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/cypriot-leader-vows-to-defy-troika-seeks-party-bailout-backing.html
Cypriot President Demetris Christofias promised to defy a demand from international lenders
to rein in wages as he pushed political leaders to rally behind
him before a new round of bailout talks.  Christofias, a communist, said last weekend that he’d
defend wage indexation and the so-called 13th salary, which the
troika that oversees euro-area bailouts has said must be
scrapped. “I’m certainly ready to take to the streets with the
workers,” he said.  The president, who won’t run in a February election, met
today with political-party chiefs to discuss his government’s
counter-proposal to the troika, which consists of officials from
the European Commission,  European Central Bank  and  International
Monetary Fund . Christofias needs opposition support to push any
budgetary measures through parliament. Talks will resume at the
technical level this afternoon.  Cyprus in late June became the fifth euro-area nation to
request a financial rescue since a 2010 bailout of  Greece . The
government is in talks with the troika to fix the size of the
bailout, which will encompass banks weakened by their exposure
to the  Greek economy  as well as the public sector.  Overdue Loans  In its draft counter-proposal, which was discussed with
union and business leaders in the last few days, the government
rejects the troika’s call to sell some state assets as a
condition for aid and seeks to shield its banks from new
requirements, such as an 18-month limit after which creditors
could sell collateral backing overdue loans.  Nicos Anastasiades, head of the main DISY opposition party,
said he had proposed amendments to the government’s draft aimed
at shielding workers from the brunt of any austerity program.  “The timetable doesn’t allow for procrastination,” he
said after the first round of today’s talks. “If we don’t
submit a plan to the troika, I don’t see them coming back. If
that happens, we may face worse consequences than those we’re
trying to avoid.”  Government spokesman  Stefanos Stefanou  said common ground
was found in the morning session on issues such as banks and the
budget. Experts will try to work out the details in the
afternoon round, he said.  Anastasiades, who leads the race to succeed Christofias,
said disagreement remained on the extent of wage cuts for
workers and tax increases. His party has called for gambling to
be legalized, which would bring in 370 million euros of revenue
over four years, he said.  Russian Loan  “Without the consent of the political parties it will be
very difficult to move ahead,” Christofias said in the coastal
village of Pissouri. Since the budget requires the approval of
parliament, the government can’t advance without broad support.
“And if we don’t move ahead, we’ll be shooting ourselves in the
foot,” he said.  The government has also sought a 5 billion-euro ($6.5
billion) loan from  Russia , though Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said Oct. 12 that no agreement has been reached.  Cyprus is in talks to extend the maturity of a 2.5 billion-
euro loan granted by Russia last year, Cypriot lawmaker Stavros
Evagorou said. Russia has given “positive signals” on
prolonging the loan’s maturity by four years to 2020, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  