-- Czech Premier Pledges Deficit Cuts After Election Defeat
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-10-15T12:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/czech-premier-pledges-deficit-cuts-after-election-defeat.html
Czech Premier Petr Necas pledged to
continue  deficit  cuts that helped reduce borrowing costs after a
defeat in regional elections threaten to weaken him as the
leader of the coalition government and his party.  Necas’s Civic  Democratic Party  won in one of the 13 regions
in an Oct. 12-13 vote, with the main opposition party, the
Social Democrats, winning in nine regions, according to the
Czech Statistics Office. The Communist Party won in two regions,
its best result since the Velvet Revolution overthrew the
communist regime two decades ago.  The government, which lost its parliamentary majority in
April following personnel and budget rows, is struggling to push
through a bill including tax increases as a group of ruling-
party lawmakers opposes the plan. With the country in a
 recession  since the last quarter of 2011, Necas will also face a
challenge in the Civic Democrats’ party election next month.  “We aren’t a group of blind and deaf people, and we are
reflecting on the atmosphere now,” Necas said in a debate on
Czech state television yesterday. “But the key parameters of
our agenda, which means the focus on lowering indebtedness and
lowering the public-finance deficit, will stay. That’s the
reason for the existence of this government.”  The government is trying to avoid the fate of European
administrations that lost power in a wave of protests against
austerity measures that contributed to recessions in economies
from  Romania  to  Spain  instead of tackling the euro area’s debt
crisis as envisaged.  Necas’s Measures  Necas credits previous austerity measures with helping
reduce borrowing costs and says the new package, which includes
higher sales taxes and a new levy on the highest incomes, will
maintain investor confidence by cutting the fiscal deficit to
less than the European Union’s limit of 3 percent of  economic
output  next year.  The yield on the  five-year  koruna bonds fell to a record
low of 1.054 percent as of 1:55 p.m. in Prague today, according
to generic data compiled by Bloomberg. Czech domestic bonds are
influenced by the central bank’s record-low  interest rates  as
falling household consumption caused economic contraction in the
past three quarters and tamed inflation.  Necas staked his government’s survival on the plan by
linking it to a vote of confidence by the end of the year.  Early Elections  The election defeat of the Civic Democrats “will continue
to keep pressure on the party and we do not exclude the
possibility of a coalition break-up,”  Jaromir Sindel , an
economist at Citigroup Inc. in Prague, said in an e-mail.
“Thus, we see a possibility of an early general election” in
the first half of next year, Sindel said.  The two-year-old Cabinet has cut investment, raised the
sales tax and curbed spending on public wages. The budget
shortfall narrowed to 3.1 percent of gross domestic product last
year from 4.8 percent in 2010 and the  Finance Ministry  estimates
it at 3.2 percent of GDP this year.  Necas on Sept. 5 failed to secure enough votes in the lower
house of Parliament to push through a bill that included the tax
increases. Six Civic Democratic Party lawmakers joined the
opposition to reject budget measures, saying they are against a
plan to boost revenue with higher taxes.  Opposition Gains  The  Social Democrats  may also regain the majority in the
upper house of parliament they held until defections in August.
Twenty-three of its candidates advanced to the face-off round of
elections for 27 Senate mandates.  Necas’s party will have 10 candidates in the second round
of vote on Oct. 19-20. The Social Democrats had 38 seats before
the ballot, of which five terms end now. The Civic Democrats
held 24 Senate mandates, with 13 ending now.  The Civic Democrats’ election result will “cause strong
tensions inside the party, no matter how much Petr Necas tries
to play it down,” said Jiri Pehe, the director of  New York 
University in Prague and a political analyst who two years ago
forecast the break-up of the original three-party coalition
before the end of its term in 2014. “The rebels will feel
stronger in their battle with Necas and the government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  