-- Delta Air Said to Increase Refinancing Loans to $1.95 Billion
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-10-15T20:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/delta-air-said-to-increase-refinancing-loans-to-1-95-billion.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  increased the
size of a loan it’s seeking to refinance debt to $1.95 billion
from $1.7 billion, according to a person with knowledge of the
transaction.  The world’s second-biggest carrier boosted the size of a
six-year B-1 term portion to $1.1 billion from $1 billion and
expanded a 3 ½-year B-2 piece to $400 million from $250 million,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private.  The B-1 portion will now pay interest at 4 percentage
points more than the London interbank offered rate, compared
with a range of 4 percentage points to 4.25 percentage points,
with a 1.25 percent minimum on the lending benchmark, according
to the person.  The company is proposing to sell the loan at 99 cents on
the dollar, the person said, reducing proceeds for the company
and boosting the yield to investors.  Lenders are being offered one-year soft-call protection of
101 cents, meaning the company would have to pay 1 cent more
than face value to refinance the B-1 piece during the first
year, the person said.  Delta is proposing to pay 3 percentage points more than
Libor with a 1.25 percent floor on the B-2 piece, down from 3
percentage points to 3.25 percentage points initially offered,
the person said. The debt is expected to be sold at 99 cents,
according to the person.  Barclays Plc, Bank of America Corp., BNP Paribas SA,
Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley
and UBS AG are arranging the loans and commitments are due today
by 5 p.m. in  New York , the person said. The Atlanta-based
company is also seeking a $450 million five-year revolving line
of credit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Paul Jacobson, chief financial officer of Delta Air Lines,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.
bank loan mutual funds and  hedge funds .  United Continental Holdings Inc. is the world’s biggest
airline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  