-- Deutsche Banker Spoke of Bath-Salt Use Days Before Run-In
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-10-16T18:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/deutsche-banker-spoke-of-bath-salt-use-days-before-run-in.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  financier Brian Mulligan spoke of using so-called bath salts stimulants and
appeared paranoid days before a violent run-in with Los Angeles
police, according a recording released by the police union.  Two days before the May incident, the Hollywood banker told
a Glendale police officer he believed people were following him,
possibly by helicopter, according to the  recording . Mulligan
said he had used bath salts, a paranoia-inducing stimulant,
about 20 times and as recently as two weeks earlier. They are
unrelated to bathing products.  “I know this is going to sound crazy, but I feel like
there are people following me,” Mulligan told an officer at the
department’s headquarters. “I feel like there was a chopper. Do
you hear a chopper?”  The bank executive has filed an administrative claim
seeking as much as $50 million in damages against  Los Angeles ,
alleging officers beat and illegally detained him on May 15. The
claim is a necessary step before filing a lawsuit.  The  Los Angeles Police Protective League  released the
recording and transcript to defend the officers involved in the
incident, without saying how they were obtained. Mulligan’s
conversation with Glendale,  California , police was taped and
later turned over to Los Angeles authorities, said Glendale
police spokesman Thomas Lorenz, who confirmed the accuracy.  There was no trace of bath salts or other intoxicants in
Mulligan’s system when he was tested at a hospital after the
beating, according to his attorney, Louis R. Miller.  ‘Beating Case’  “This is a beating case,” Miller said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “He was severely, horrifically beaten. The
police union that put out that press release and so forth,
they’re just trying to make my client look bad.”  The City Attorney’s office hasn’t brought charges against
Mulligan, according to Frank Mateljan, a spokesman.  In the transcript, the Glendale officer asks Mulligan if he
is a wanted fugitive.  “Probably my lawyer will kill me when I say this, but I
went to a head shop and I bought some of that white lightning
stuff,” Mulligan said. The officer asked if he snorted the
substance, and Mulligan answered, “Yeah.”  White lightning is a type of so-called bath salts,
synthetic stimulants that may include mephedrone and methylone.
They can cause paranoia and hallucinations, according to
WebMD.com. Other names are Purple Wave and Hurricane Charlie.  In addition to being called bath salts, mephedrone has been
sold as plant food, decorative sand and even as toy cleaner,
according to the website.  LAPD Encounter  Mulligan specializes in financing for Hollywood film and TV
studios and has participated in deals including Metro-Goldwyn-
Mayer Inc.’s $500 million credit facility announced in February.
He joined Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank in 2009 and previously
was chairman of Brooknol Advisors LLC, an entertainment adviser
and investment firm. Before that he had senior roles at Seagram
Co.,  Universal Pictures  and Fox.  Mulligan was forcibly subdued in May after he took a
fighting stance and charged officers who approached after seeing
him attempt to enter moving vehicles in the city’s  Highland Park 
neighborhood, Los Angeles Police Lieutenant Andy Neiman said at
the time.  The same officers had questioned Mulligan about two hours
earlier after responding to citizen calls that a man was trying
to get into occupied autos in the drive-through lane of a fast-
food restaurant nearby, Neiman said. The complaint against Los
Angeles says Mulligan will require reconstructive surgery and
psychological care that may cost as much as $1 million.  The Glendale officer urged Mulligan to stop using bath
salts, warning him the effects worsen with repeated use.  “I guarantee you that if you continue using that stuff it
will change who you are and it will destroy your family,” the
officer said. “You will stop being who you are and you will
become something totally different.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  