-- Diamond Bank of Nigeria to Raise $300 Million for Lending
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-10-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/diamond-bank-of-nigeria-to-raise-300-million-for-lending.html
Diamond Bank Plc (DIAMONDB) , a Nigerian lender,
plans to raise $300 million as it seeks to expand credit to
customers, Chief Financial Officer Abdulrahman Yinusa said.  “Our target is for the loan to be raised by the end of
this year, which will bring to $500 million what we have
borrowed in the year,” Yinusa said yesterday in an interview in
Lagos, the commercial capital. “The purpose remains to expand
our loan books and fund infrastructure.”  The Lagos-based lender revised its loan-growth target for
this year to 40 percent from 20 percent, “a modest projection
from our third quarter performance,” he said. The forecast
takes into account the central bank’s decision to increase the
cash reserve ratio for banks that has damped their lending, he
said.  Central Bank of Nigeria Governor Lamido Sanusi said on July
24 that the Monetary Policy Committee increased the amount of
cash as a percentage of deposits that commercial banks must keep
with it to 12 percent from 8 percent while leaving the benchmark
interest rate unchanged at 12 percent since October last year to
stabilize prices.  Sanusi fired the chief executive officers of eight of the
country’s 24 lenders in 2009 and bailed them out with 620
billion naira ($4 billion) after loans by banks to equity
speculators and fuel importers pushed the industry to the verge
of collapse. The government then set up Asset Management Corp.
of Nigeria to buy bad debts from the country’s banks, including
25 billion naira Diamond Bank had loaned to Geometric Power
Ltd., a power generation company, to enable them resume lending.  Exceeding Targets  Diamond Bank’s first-half profit through June rose more
than fourfold to 9.99 billion naira, from 1.71 billion naira a
year earlier, it said on July 11. Net interest income gained 71
percent to 42 billion naira. The bank achieved a return on
equity of 23 percent in the third quarter against a target of 15
percent for the year, “which indicates that it will exceed its
targets for the full year,” Yinusa said.  With the administration of President Goodluck Jonathan
seeking private investment to help overcome the infrastructure
deficit of  Africa ’s most populous country of more than 160
million people, the lender sees opportunities for loans to
companies building power facilities, railways and roads,
according to Yinusa.  “We want to grow our loan book aggressively to a level
before we will consider slowing down,” he said.  Having secured the approval of shareholders to raise $750
million in May, the $250 million that will remain may be
borrowed over the next two years, depending on need, according
to Yinusa. While the company has no immediate plans for mergers
or acquisitions, it intends to go to the capital market if it
needs to raise funds after 2013 when “the market would have
stabilized” in order to ensure “steady growth,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  