-- DiMaio’s Mead Park Creating Loan-Investing Venture With Doral
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-10-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/dimaio-s-mead-park-creating-loan-investing-venture-with-doral.html
Mead Park Holdings LLC, the hedge
fund led by former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  trader Jack DiMaio, is
creating a partnership with  Doral Financial Corp. (DRL)  to invest in
junk-grade loans.  The hedge fund will take a 75.1 percent stake in the
venture, Redan Park Asset Management LLC, which will have $1.1
billion in assets, New York-based Mead Park said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement. The assets include collateralized loan
obligations, or CLOs, an investment vehicle that buys loans to
companies with low credit grades and finances them by selling
bonds, a portion of which are rated triple-A.  Mead Park joins hedge funds including  Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group LLC (OZM)  that seek to take advantage of surging
demand for CLOs, which offer higher yields than similarly rated
government bonds. The Federal Reserve’s zero-interest policy has
pushed investors to reconsider asset-backed debt, four years
after the 2008 collapse of the mortgage-bond market contributed
to more than $2 trillion of losses globally.  The deal will build on Mead Park’s “strong capital
resources, structuring expertise and investment opportunity
sourcing capabilities,” DiMaio, 45, said in the statement.  David Moffitt, a Mead Park partner, declined to give the
purchase price or say how much the year-old firm has under
management. Keith Barnish, who oversees Doral’s CLO investments,
confirmed the contents of the statement, and said he plans to
stay on as part of the venture’s investing team. The deal is
scheduled to close by the end of 2012.  CLO Sales  Doral, Puerto Rico’s third-biggest bank, has reported net
losses for each of the past six years, totaling $1.04 billion.
The San Juan-based lender has been operating under constraining
orders with the Fed since at least 2006, according to  a
regulatory filing .  Under a  Sept. 11 agreement  with the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York, Doral has 60 days to devise “strategies to minimize
credit losses and reduce the level of problem assets.”  CLO sales have more than doubled this year and may do so
again next year to $60 billion, Rishad Ahluwalia, a JPMorgan
Chase & Co. analyst, said in a report last month. That would be
the most since a record $104.7 billion in 2007.  DiMaio runs Mead Park with Credit Suisse alumni David Moffitt, 50, and Chris Ricciardi, 43, who worked at Merrill
Lynch & Co. last decade creating and selling collateralized debt
obligations, a broader category of structured investments that
includes CLOs as well as bonds packaged out of other bonds.  Riskier Assets  Mead Park, which is being advised by former Credit Suisse
Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel , 68, is targeting about
$2 billion of equity investments in banks, insurers and loan-
management companies in  Europe  and the U.S., people with
knowledge of the matter said in May.  CLO managers have sold about $33 billion of the instruments
so far this year, double the total for 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Demand has surged along with other forms
of securitized debt, including bonds made up of credit cards,
commercial mortgages and auto loans.  CLOs offer some of the richest yields, with triple-A rated
versions fetching about 1.5 percentage points more than
benchmark floating interest rates, JPMorgan’s Ahluwalia wrote.
They’re also considered riskier than other asset-backed
securities. Similarly rated bonds packaged from credit-card
loans yielded 0.18 percentage point over benchmark rates as of
Aug. 29, Wells Fargo & Co. data show.  Och-Ziff  Och-Ziff, the hedge fund founded by former Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. trader Daniel Och, has used JPMorgan to raise $1.07
billion of CLOs since June, two people with knowledge of the
deal said earlier this month. Private-equity firms including
 Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) ,  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  Carlyle
Group LP (CG)  are among the 10 biggest CLO managers.  DiMaio’s first hedge fund, DiMaio Ahmad Capital LLC,
managed CLOs as well.  That fund, which he started at Zurich-based Credit Suisse
with co-founder Nasser Ahmad, was spun out of the bank in 2005.
Merrill Lynch bought a minority stake in DiMaio Ahmad in 2006,
and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  did so in 2009, when DiMaio agreed to join
the firm as head of fixed-income trading. DiMaio left  New York- 
based Morgan Stanley early last year.  In August 2011, Citigroup Inc.’s alternative-investments
unit, Citi Capital Advisors, bought DiMaio Ahmad’s CLO business,
which at the time had about $2 billion of assets under
management.  The following month, Toronto-based private-equity firm  Onex
Corp. (OCX)  announced it hired Paul Travers from DiMaio Ahmad to
expand its CLO business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  