-- Dong Energy to Cut Coal Use, CO2 Emissions 50% in Biomass Switch
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-10-15T11:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/dong-energy-to-cut-coal-use-co2-emissions-50-in-biomass-switch.html
Dong Energy  A/S, Denmark’s biggest
utility, is set to cut coal use and carbon emissions as it
switches to biomass at three of its biggest plants with a
combined output of as much as 1,968 megawatts, the company said.  The utility plans to convert to biomass at three co-
generation stations, including the coal-fired 790-megawatt
 Avedoere  plant in Copenhagen and the 760-megawatt  Studstrup  unit
in Aarhus, as well as the 418-megawatt gas-fired  Skaerbaek 
station in Kolding, Thomas Dalsgaard, executive vice president
of Dong Energy, said today by e-mail from Fredericia, Denmark.  The move was prompted by a renewable-energy policy
agreement signed by the country’s main political parties on
March 22, with a final investment decision pending the outcome
of the talks, he said. A firm decision and timeframe will be
given depending on the outcome of negotiations with heat
customers, he said.  “The conversion to biomass enables 100 percent use of
biomass, but the power plants will maintain fuel flexibility and
be able to use coal or gas,” Dalsgaard said.  Once the fuel switch is complete, Dong expects to use about 
2 million metric tons of coal each year, down from 4 million 
tons last year and 6 million tons in 2006, Dalsgaard said.  The company has its eyes set on increasing “green
production of heat and power from 15 percent in 2006 to 85
percent in 2040,” he said. “CO2 emissions per energy unit
should be halved by 2020 and reduced to only 15 percent by
2040.”  Scrapped Divestment  The government policy of promoting renewable energy at the
expense of fossil fuels will limit  Denmark ’s coal use by 50
percent over the next eight years, according to a website report
issued by the country’s Energy Agency on Sept. 27.  Following a scrapped divestment plan, Vattenfall AB, the
Nordic region’s biggest utility, decided to keep operating three
combined heat and power plants in Denmark, while speeding up
studies into co-firing biomass at the stations in a bid to scale
back the use of fossil fuels and cut carbon emissions, the
 company said  on Feb. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  