-- LME Trading Will Be Record High After Busiest September Ever
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-10-15T11:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/lme-trading-will-be-record-high-after-busiest-september-ever-1-.html
The London Metal Exchange, the
world’s biggest marketplace for industrial metals, will have
record trading this year after the busiest September ever, Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Abbott  said.  Volume is already up 8 percent this year, Abbott said in an
interview at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre in London
today. The LME last year handled a record 146.6 million
contracts worth $15.4 trillion in copper and other industrial
metals. In September, the total was 14.09 million contracts.  “It’s reasonable to expect a strong finish to the year,”
Abbott said. “We are going into what is traditionally the
busiest quarter.”  Miners and traders are meeting in London this week to
discuss the outlook for supply and demand. Shareholders in the
LME approved a $2.2 billion takeover by  Hong Kong  Exchanges &
Clearing Ltd. in July. The LME will be owned by  Hong Kong
Exchanges (388)  by the end of the year, Abbott told the conference.  The LME  Index (LMEX)  of six industrial metals advanced 4 percent
this year, led by tin’s 9.5 percent jump as miners were unable
to meet demand as the U.S. and  Europe  announced quantitative
easing to boost economic growth.  The  Federal Reserve  said Sept. 13 it will buy $40 billion
of mortgage debt a month and probably hold the federal funds
rate near zero until at least the middle of 2015. The  European
Central Bank  said earlier this month it stands ready to buy
bonds of indebted governments that comply with rescue
conditions.  Hong Kong Exchange  Hong Kong Exchanges is buying a bourse handling more than
80 percent of world trade in industrial-metal futures, setting
global prices for metals from copper to aluminum to nickel. The
LME started a new user fee of 79 cents per lot in July to boost
revenue and is planning to build its own clearinghouse.  The new user fee is a “game changer in terms of the LME’s
finances,” Abbott said in the interview.  China , the biggest buyer of industrial metals, will support
a “healthy” expansion in global demand for metals even as
European usage fails to match pre-financial crisis levels in the
next several years, according to research company CRU.  China will consume about 45 percent of the world’s copper
by 2015 and 48 percent of all aluminum and nickel, Vanessa Davidson, group manager of copper and nickel teams at CRU, said
at the conference. That compares with 13 percent for copper, 12
percent for aluminum and 6 percent for nickel in 2000, according
to a copy of her presentation.  Southeast Asian countries, including Indonesia and India,
as well as  Africa  may be the next areas after China where
economic power shifts driven by urbanization, boosting demand
for commodities, according to Richard Elman, chairman of Noble
Group.  “There is a lot of space and places to go,” Elman said at
the conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in  London  at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  