-- Medicare Premiums Would Rise for 59% With Ryan Plan
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-10-15T16:05:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/medicare-premiums-would-rise-for-59-with-ryan-plan.html
Elderly people in Florida would have
paid more than $200 extra for traditional Medicare if a system
similar to  Paul Ryan ’s proposed overhaul of the program was in
place in 2010, according to the  Kaiser Family Foundation .  Ryan, the Republican vice presidential nominee, wants to
transform Medicare into a “premium support” system in which
beneficiaries get a fixed payment from the government for their
insurance, rather than guaranteed benefits. Such a plan would
lead to wide variations in Medicare costs across the country,
according to the  study  today by the nonprofit Kaiser group.  Fifty-nine percent of beneficiaries would have paid more in
2010, unless they switched from traditional Medicare or their
current private coverage to a lower-cost plan, the researchers
found. In  California , Florida,  Michigan ,  New Jersey ,  Nevada  and
 New York , it would cost more than $100 extra a month to maintain
traditional coverage for Medicare.  The findings “underscore the potential for highly
disparate effects of a premium support system for beneficiaries
across the county,” said the authors, led by Gretchen Jacobson,
a policy analyst at Kaiser.  Romney’s Plan  Mitt Romney , the Republican presidential nominee, has said
he would enact a plan similar to Ryan’s if elected. A Romney
spokeswoman, Andrea Saul, said the Kaiser study didn’t examine
“the Romney-Ryan plan,” which Romney has not detailed.  “Our plan would always provide future beneficiaries
guaranteed coverage options with no increase in out-of-pocket
costs from today’s Medicare,” she said in an e-mail.  President  Barack Obama ’s campaign said in a  blog  post today
that “Under Romney’s plan, millions of people -- especially
those with complicated health needs who see a lot of different
doctors --would have to give up their doctors or pay extra to
maintain access to their choices”  Under the plan outlined by Ryan, who is also chairman of
the House Budget Committee, the government’s Medicare
contribution would be set by annual bids from plans
participating in the system, including traditional Medicare. The
stipend, which Democrats call a “voucher,” would equal the
second lowest-cost bid in each county.  Varying Premiums  That mechanism would lead to varying premiums across the
country because of differences in medical costs, Jacobson and
her colleagues said. Medicare would likely be among the lowest-
cost plans in parts of the country with low medical costs, while
private plans would outbid the government elsewhere.  While Medicare beneficiaries may have to pay more, a
premium support plan would probably save the government money,
Jacobson and her colleagues said. The study didn’t measure the
extent of those savings.  Medicare beneficiaries in a system like Ryan’s wouldn’t
face higher premiums and might even lower their costs if they
switch to lower-cost plans, the Kaiser researchers said. People
may be unlikely to change plans, though, even to get a lower
premium.  In Medicare’s prescription drug program, where
beneficiaries choose among private plans to cover medicines,
just 6 percent changed plans in 2008, “despite substantial
variations in premiums, cost-sharing and other factors,”
according to the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services. Only 7 percent of participants in  Massachusetts ’s
government-run insurance exchange, the Connector, switched plans
in 2011, the study said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  