-- Legg Mason’s Miller Redeemed as Housing Bull: Mortgages
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-10-15T13:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/legg-mason-s-miller-redeemed-as-housing-bull-mortgages.html
Legg Mason Inc. (LM) ’s Bill Miller, who
beat the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index for a record 15 years
before crashing on bank stocks, is seeking redemption as a
housing bull.  Miller’s  Legg Mason Capital Management Opportunity Trust (LMOPX) 
has bet about a third of its holdings on a property rebound
through homebuilders, mortgage real estate investments trusts
and loan insurers. That’s propelled the $952 million fund to a
return of 29 percent this year through Oct. 11, surpassing 99
percent of peers and more than double the  S&P 500 (SPX) ’s advance,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund lost 35
percent in 2011, last among its category, when he prematurely
bet on a recovery.  “Housing fundamentals are likely to be positive for
years,” Miller, 62, said in a telephone interview. “The stocks
have run, but in our judgment are not even close to reflecting
that long cycle.”  The reversal shows how Federal Reserve efforts to push down
borrowing costs to record lows are helping drive a more
sustained recovery in real estate after a six-year slump. Gains
in mortgage applications, prices and sales of new and existing
homes have lifted stocks and bonds linked to housing, after
being pummeled last year.  Miller’s winners this year include homebuilder  PulteGroup
Inc. (PHM) , which has doubled after dropping 16 percent in 2011;
 Ellington Financial LLC (EFC) , a mortgage bond investor that’s up
about 30 percent following a 22 percent decline; and firms tied
to a housing rebound such as  Bank of America Corp. , which has
gained 64 percent after plunging 58 percent last year.  Buying Ugly  Shares of the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank could
double within three years, said Miller.  Miller’s willingness “to go out on a limb and buy things
that look ugly,” explains the performance swings, Bridget Hughes, an analyst with Chicago-based  Morningstar  Inc., said in
a telephone interview. “It can be painful sometimes, but when
it works, he knocks the ball out of the park.”  The Opportunity fund, which Miller has run since 1999,
slumped in 2011 as housing and financial stocks were hurt by
investor concerns about  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, he told
shareholders in a January letter. “The worst things to own were
mostly where we were invested,” Miller wrote.  Hughes said in a December 2011 note about the Opportunity
fund, “you have to look hard for the redeeming qualities.”  Miller’s Fall  Miller set a record for beating the S&P 500 index for 15
years through 2005 by picking inexpensive financial shares and
out-of-favor technology companies. His flagship  Legg Mason
Capital Management Value Trust, (LMVTX)  started trailing after
investments in Amazon.com Inc. and UnitedHealth Group Inc. went
awry.  During the 2008 credit crisis the fund lost 55 percent
betting on financial stocks, prompting a wave of withdrawals
after peaking at $21 billion. In 2006, 2008 and 2010 the fund
underperformed at least 98 percent of comparable funds,
Bloomberg data show. Miller left Value Trust in April.  Legg Mason Chief Executive Officer  Mark Fetting  stepped
down in September after failing to end almost five years of
client redemptions. Under Fetting, shares at the Baltimore,
Maryland-based company fell 65 percent.  While conceding he was too early in expecting a turn in
housing, Miller said a bounceback was a “a mathematical
inevitability.”  The housing slump drove starts and purchases so low that
pent-up demand was bound to kick in, Miller said. The
combination of low interest rates and affordable prices has
given the rally additional strength, he said.  ‘Worst Over’  The S&P/Case-Shiller index, which gauges property values in
20 cities, rose 1.2 percent in July from a year earlier, the
biggest 12-month jump since August 2010. The measure fell 35
percent from the peak in July 2006 to February 2012.  “Everything we see points that the worst is over,” Bank
of America Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan said about
housing in an Oct. 11 interview with Bloomberg Television in
 Tokyo .  Miller goes further. “The surprise on the economy is that
the economy will get better because housing will get better,”
he said.  The U.S. economy will expand 2.1 percent this year and 2
percent in 2013, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Homebuilder Stocks  The Opportunity fund had 13 percent of its money in
homebuilders as of June 30, regulatory filings show. Two of the
stocks, Bloomfield Hills-based Pulte, and Los Angeles,
California-based  KB Home (KBH) , more than doubled this year, Bloomberg
data show. The third,  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  of Miami,  Florida  is up 82
percent.  The three builder stocks were among the biggest individual
contributors to the fund’s 2012 performance, Bloomberg data
show.  Miller bought KB and added to his holdings of Pulte in the
second half of 2011, regulatory filings show, as the Standard &
Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index reached its low point
for the year.  The homebuilder gauge rose 0.5 percent as of 9:41 a.m. in
New York extending this year’s gain to 75 percent.  Barclays Plc cut its rating on Lennar to equal weight from
overweight on Sept. 25. Stephen Kim, the analyst, wrote, “It
appears we have reached that point in the rally when investors
are pricing in a ‘best-case scenario,’ for the strongest
builders.  Miller had 5.9 percent of his portfolio in  mortgage REITs 
and another 4.1 percent in Old Greenwich, Connecticut-based
Ellington, which gets most of its earnings from non-agency home
loans.  Subprime Mortgages  The debt, which includes subprime, prime mortgages and Alt-
A, a type of home loan that typically required less
documentation, climbed in 2012 on improving housing fundamentals
and shrinking supply.  Ellington could pay a special dividend at the end of the
year because earnings have been so strong, Miller said.  Mortgage REITs have also benefited from gains in agency
mortgage bonds, those guaranteed by government-backed Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac or U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae.  The Fed’s efforts to push down rates have provided low-cost
funding for the REITs, which has allowed them to offer double-
digit yields to investors, said Samantha McLemore, assistant
portfolio manager on the Opportunity fund. Because mortgage
securities have risen so far this year, the outlook for
additional capital gains on REITs “is more muted and the risks
have increased,” she wrote in an e-mail.  Invesco Capital  One of Miller’s holdings, Invesco Mortgage Capital, an
Atlanta-based firm that invests in both agency and non-agency
mortgages, is up 48 percent this year and yields 13 percent,
Bloomberg data show.  Miller also owns stocks where the link to housing is
indirect, such as discount broker  E*Trade Financial Corp. (ETFC)  The
New York-based firm expanded into home lending during the last
decade and got stuck with a troubled mortgage portfolio.  The home loans, $10.7 billion as of June 30, have depressed
the stock and prevented a possible sale of the firm. Miller
calls E*Trade “a backdoor way to play housing.” His logic: An
improving housing market, and the passage of time, will diminish
the drag from the loan portfolio.  The shares, which rose 1.1 percent to $9.10 today, could
double in value, Miller said, without providing a time frame.  BofA Participation  Bank of America’s role as a major originator and servicer
of mortgages means it will participate in the housing rebound,
boosting shares, according to Miller.  The lender ranked fourth among U.S. mortgage originators in
the second quarter with a 4.7 percent market share, data from
Inside Mortgage Finance show. San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  ranked first with 32 percent.  Not all of Miller’s housing bets have worked out. Mortgage
insurers  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)  of Richmond, Virginia is down
16 percent and  Milwaukee , Wisconsin-based  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG) 
56 percent this year after losses tied to home loans drained
capital.  Investors are missing the positives, Miller said. Both
firms have been making money on insurance policies written since
2008, even as they continue to “pay through the nose,” on
policies issued in the 2003-2006 period.  In Genworth’s case, said Miller, the good business will
eventually be bigger than the bad and the stock, at $5.47 a
share, could reach $8 to $10 in 12 months. Gains are also
possible at MGIC, even though the firm may be forced by
regulators to raise capital, a move that could dilute existing
shareholders, said Miller.  Robert Shiller, the Yale University professor who predicted
the bursting of the dot-com and subprime-mortgage bubbles,
doesn’t share Miller’s optimism about U.S. housing. Asked about
the prospects for a housing revival in an Oct. 5 interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance,” Shiller said, “Are we
at an upward turning point? I am calling that a big question.
Most likely nothing much is going to happen.”  Miller’s confidence is unshaken. When it comes to housing,
he said, “things are better than people believe, not worse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban in New York at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  