-- Egypt Brotherhood Officials Investigated Over Protest Clashes
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   A h m e d   E l - S a y e d
-- 2012-10-15T12:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/egypt-brotherhood-officials-investigated-over-protest-clashes.html
Egyptian Prosecutor-General Abdel-
Meguid Mahmoud has ordered an investigation into allegations two
top Muslim Brotherhood officials incited attacks on women during
a Cairo protest last week, his office said.  The investigation of Mohamed El-Beltagy and Essam El-Erian
stemmed from Oct. 12 clashes between secular groups and members
of the Brotherhood’s political party that left over 140 injured.
The incident underscored the tensions that have built up between
Islamists backing President Mohamed Mursi and secularists who
have grown increasingly worried about the Islamists’ hold on
government.  Mahmoud’s order comes days after he defied Mursi’s attempt
to remove him from office, a move criticized by the judiciary as
an attempt by the president to encroach on their independence
and authority. Mursi later said Mahmoud would remain in his post
instead of being sent off as  Egypt ’s ambassador to the Vatican.  Calls placed to Beltagy and El-Erian on their mobile phones
were not immediately answered. Mahmoud Ghozlan, a spokesman for
the Brotherhood, said it was his party’s supporters who “were
attacked by thugs.”  “We didn’t attack anyone,” Ghozlan said by phone. “The
investigations will prove that.”  The complaints were filed with Mahmoud’s office by at least
one female activist who alleged the Brotherhood supporters
attacked women at the demonstration.  The clashes occurred as the Brotherhood organized a protest
against the acquittal of several top officials from ousted
President  Hosni Mubarak ’s government on charges of involvement
in the so-called “Battle of the Camel,” in which protesters
were killed during last year’s revolt. Separately, other groups
protested both the acquittals and Mursi’s rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 