-- Lehman Has $15 Billion Disputed Claim on Brokerage Unit
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-10-15T15:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/lehman-has-15-billion-disputed-claim-on-brokerage-unit.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which
planned a second payment to creditors of $10.2 billion on Oct. 1,
said its largest claim on an affiliate is $15.2 billion owed by
its defunct brokerage.  Lehman had cash of $8.3 billion as of June 30, plus
restricted cash of $13.6 billion, including money set aside for
disputed claims and debts, the company said today in a
regulatory filing. It was owed $45.2 billion by affiliates,
including the $15.2 billion claimed from the Lehman Brothers
Inc. brokerage and $14.3 billion owed by a Swiss affiliate,
Lehman Brothers Finance. The final amounts of both claims are
being negotiated.  Separately, the brokerage, which has yet to pay  hedge funds 
and banks after four years in liquidation, has said it is closer
to making a payment after settling two other large affiliate
claims.  The Lehman parent, which continues to liquidate assets to
pay creditors after emerging from bankruptcy, had $18.9 billion
of investments and inventory on June 30, including commercial
real estate and loans of about $12 billion, according to the
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Principal investments were $4.3 billion, including an equity
stake in  Neuberger Berman , which the money management firm is
buying back.  New Board  Overseen by a new board since leaving bankruptcy in March,
the defunct investment bank plans semi-annual distributions,
including a third distribution around March 30. Its first
payment totaled $22.5 billion.  Lehman has said it intends to raise $53 billion through
2016 or so, to pay an average of 18 cents on the dollar on final
claims of $300 billion. The company filed the biggest U.S.
bankruptcy ever in September 2008, listing debt of $613 billion.
The brokerage went into liquidation separately soon after.  Lehman, run by Chief Executive Officer Richard Fuld when
its collapse helped bring on the worst economic slump since the
Great Depression, settled a fight with creditors in a payment
plan that allotted more money to derivatives claimants including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and less to bondholders such as Paulson
& Co. Both groups proposed rival plans to pay Lehman’s debt.  Lehman failed because of too much debt and risky real
estate investments, according to a bankruptcy examiner’s report.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  