-- Eisai’s Epilepsy Drug Helps Obese Patients Reduce Weight
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2012-10-16T23:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/eisai-s-epilepsy-drug-reduces-weight-in-obese-patients.html
(Corrects name of Vivus’s drug in fourth paragraph)  Eisai Co.’s epilepsy drug Zonegran
helped obese people lose weight, according to a study that shows
the potential of another antiseizure medication to aid in weight
reduction.  Obese people who took 400 milligrams of Zonegran a day for
a year had a 3.3 kilograms (7.3 pounds) greater  weight loss  than
those on a placebo, according to the study published today in
Archives of  Internal Medicine . The efficacy was similar to  Roche
Holding AG (ROG) ’s Xenical and  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA) ’s Belviq.
Side effects such as mood changes and memory problems occurred
more frequently than with a placebo, the authors of the study at
Duke University Medical Center in Durham,  North Carolina , said.  “The drug’s benefit-to-risk ratio needs thoughtful and
cautious assessment,” the researchers said in the study.  The U.S.-funded study is the first randomized, controlled
trial to evaluate Tokyo-based Eisai’s Zonegran, also known as
zomisamide, as a monotherapy weight-loss drug, the researchers
said. Zonisamide is used in  Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. (OREX) ’s
experimental drug Empatic for obesity, combined with an
antidepressant bupropion.  Vivus Inc. (VVUS) ’s Qsymia, which won U.S.
approval in July, contains the antiseizure medication Topamax
combined with the appetite suppressant phentermine.  Obesity has more than doubled since 1980 worldwide. More
than 1.4 billion adults were overweight and, of these, about 500
million men and women were obese in 2008, said the  World Health
Organization . In the U.S., more than a third of adults are
obese. Medical costs associated with obesity were estimated at
$147 billion in 2008 in the world’s largest economy, according
to the  Center for Disease Control and Prevention .  ‘Dire Need’  “For obese patients who do not achieve adequate benefit
from lifestyle therapies, there is a dire need for additional
nonsurgical therapeutic options,” the researchers wrote in the
study.  The study of Eisai’s medicine involved 225 people whose
body mass index was 37.6 on average and didn’t have diabetes.
Individuals took a placebo, 200 milligrams or 400 milligrams of
Zonegran in addition to receiving diet and lifestyle counseling
by a dietician for a year. The daily dose of 200 milligrams
wasn’t efficacious, the study said.  Obesity for adults is defined as having a  body mass index 
greater than 30. The index represents weight in kilograms
divided by height in meters squared. Overweight for adults is
defined as having BMI of 25 to 30.  Eisai  fell  20 yen, or 0.6 percent, to 3,395 yen yesterday.
The stock has risen 6.6 percent this year, while the benchmark
Topix Index has dropped 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at  at
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  