-- Eli Lilly’s Stomach-Cancer Drug Improves Survival
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-10-15T20:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/eli-lilly-s-stomach-cancer-drug-improves-survival.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s experimental
stomach cancer drug helped patients with advanced disease live
longer, a study found. The shares rose.  The most common side effects for the medicine, called
ramucirumab, were high blood pressure, diarrhea and headache,
the Indianapolis-based company said in a statement today. The
drug was tested in patients with gastric cancer that has spread
to other parts of the body.  Leerink Swann upgraded its rating on the stock to buy from
hold on the data, saying the drug has an 80 percent chance of
approval as a second-line treatment. The medicine is in the
final stage of testing for U.S regulatory approval. If approved,
it may generate $600 million in annual sales, said  Mark Schoenebaum , a New York-based analyst with ISI Group.  “Overall, the Street will view this positively, we think,
as it adds credence to the pipeline thesis,” Schoenebaum said,
in a note to clients. He said it will also make Lilly less
dependent in the future on its experimental Alzheimer’s drug.  Lilly rose 4.1 percent to $52.53 at the close of  New York 
trading. The shares have jump 37 percent in the past 12 months.
 Dyax Corp (DYAX) , which has a partnership on the treatment, rose 18
percent to $2.82.  Leerink analyst  Seamus Fernandez  said in a report today
that Lilly could hit $59 to $60 a share based on his positive
outlook for the drug.  ImClone Acquisition  Lilly didn’t say how much greater the survival benefit was.
Full results from the research will be presented at a future
medical meeting, the drugmaker said.  Ramucirumab is among the products obtained by Lilly from
its $6.5 billion acquisition of ImClone Systems Inc. in 2008.
Lilly has five other late-stage studies of ramucirumab in four
tumor types, including breast and  lung cancer . If approved for
all indications in testing, the drug could have $1.6 billion in
sales by 2020, Fernandez said.  More than 21,000 people will be diagnosed with stomach
cancer in the U.S. in 2012 and 10,540 people will die of the
disease, according to the  National Cancer Institute .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  