-- Emerging Stocks Drop as Policy Makers Disagree on Growth Plan
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2012-10-15T21:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/emerging-stocks-drop-as-policy-makers-disagree-on-growth-plan.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for the
first time in three days as global policy makers clashed on ways
to boost economic growth and Chinese companies from  ZTE Corp. (000063)  to
 Yunnan Copper (000878)  Industry Co. predicted losses.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slid 0.1 percent to 995.22
at the close of trading in New York. ZTE, China’s second-largest
maker of telephone equipment, sank the most in three months in
 Hong Kong  while Yunnan Copper lost 2.4 percent in Shenzhen.
Cosan SA Industria e Comercio, the world’s biggest sugar-cane
processor, tumbled in Brazil after IstoE magazine said the
government wants gasoline stations to lower prices.  Vakiflar
Bankasi TAO (VAKBN) , a Turkish state-run lender, snapped a six-day rally
as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended selling the stock.  Finance chiefs at the International Monetary Fund meeting
left Tokyo over the weekend at odds, with South Korea’s central
bank chief urging Asia to add stimulus as Russia and Brazil
called on rich nations to fix their own challenges. At stake is
a world economy Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  calls
“awfully close” to recession.  “Messages from the IMF and other policy makers are more
negative,”  Christian Keller , an emerging-markets analyst at
Barclays Capital in London, said by telephone. “People have a
little bit more doubt whether things will come together in
Europe.”  Eight of the 10 industry groups in the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index slumped, led by consumer discretionary stocks. The
developing-nations measure has climbed 8.6 percent this year,
trailing an 11 percent increase by the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of
developed countries. The emerging-markets index trades at 11.4
times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s
multiple of 13.2, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  IMF Disagreements  The IMF meetings ended yesterday with delegates disagreeing
over the right degree of budget austerity. Brazil central bank
President Alexandre Tombini said the country will defend itself
from short-term capital flows that bring financial instability
and inflation risks amid an easing push from major economies.  Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said there is “ample
room for promoting domestic demand-driven growth, especially in
Asia.” He said “further fiscal and monetary stimulus should
help boost domestic demand and ultimately the world recovery.”  The iShares  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, rose 0.6
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
 Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, fell 3.6 percent.  Benchmark gauges in Russia, South Korea and Taiwan
declined. China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 0.3 percent
to 2,098.70, the lowest level in a week.  Sensex Gains  Brazilian stocks erased earlier losses and gained as stocks
linked to domestic consumption rose amid signs that Brazil’s
economic recovery is picking up.  Homebuilder Brookfield Incorporacoes SA jumped 4.4 percent
to 4 reais. Online retailer B2W Cia. Global do Varejo rose 2.9
percent to 12.05 reais. Cosan sank 4.5 percent to 36.86 reais.
The Bovespa gained 0.7 percent.  Brazil’s seasonally adjusted economic activity index , a
proxy for gross domestic product, rose in August at the fastest
pace since March 2011, the central bank said Oct. 11.  The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  gained 0.2 percent, erasing
the day’s earlier losses, on speculation the central bank will
cut  interest rates  to revive the economy even as inflation
quickened.  The South African rand weakened 0.8 percent versus the
dollar, the biggest decline among emerging-market currencies,
after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the country’s credit rating on Oct.
12. The Indonesian rupiah and Thai baht also dropped.  Micex Slides  Vakifbank slumped 1.2 percent as Goldman Sachs lowered the
stock to sell from neutral, while Raspadskaya slipped 2.7
percent as Deutsche Bank cut the shares to hold versus buy.  Russia’s Micex index lost 0.2 percent as preliminary
results showed Kremlin-backed candidates dominated Russia’s
first gubernatorial elections in eight years.  The forint climbed 0.3 percent versus the euro, on
increased speculation Hungary will reach an aid agreement with
the IMF.  China’s consumer prices rose 1.9 percent last month, close
to the slowest pace in two years, the statistics bureau said.
Producer prices dropped 3.6 percent, accelerating from a 3.5
percent decline in the previous month, it said.  “Inflation data continues to point to slack demand, with
industrial prices contracting at a rapid pace,” Alistair Thornton, an economist with IHS Global Insight in Beijing, wrote
in a report.  ZTE (763)   plunged  16 percent, the biggest decliner in the
developing-nations gauge, after saying its third-quarter net
loss was probably as much as 2 billion  yuan  ($319 million). That
compared with a profit of 299.3 million yuan a year earlier.  Copper, Zinc  Yunnan Copper  fell  2.4 percent, the third day of declines
in Shenzhen, after forecasting a net loss in the third quarter
of about 307.8 million yuan.  Belle International Holdings Ltd. (1880) , China’s largest retailer
of women’s shoes, fell 4.3 percent in Hong Kong, the largest
drop since Aug. 22, after reporting footwear same-store sales
growth climbed 2.8 percent in the third quarter. The growth rate
was at the bottom end of the company’s targets, according to
Deutsche Bank.  Korea Zinc Co. (010130) , the world’s third-biggest producer of
refined zinc, which earns about half of sales from silver and
gold, slumped 7.1 percent in Seoul. Gold and silver fell for a
second day.  Vietnam Dairy Products Joint-Stock Co. (VNM) , the nation’s
biggest listed dairy producer, rose 4.2 percent to a record in
Ho Chi Minh City trading after reporting nine-month pretax
profit surged 35 percent from a year earlier.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 285, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  