-- Endeavour CEO Says Gold Juniors Should Consider Merging
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-10-15T20:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/endeavour-ceo-says-gold-juniors-should-consider-merging.html
Small gold companies should consider
merging to pool sources of funding amid a drop in equity
financing,  Endeavour Mining Corp. (EDV)  Chief Executive Officer Neil Woodyer said.  This is a “difficult” time for gold companies that need
to fund project studies and development, Woodyer said in a phone
interview today from Monaco. The value of equity funding and
takeovers of small gold companies has declined from last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There should be economically more mergers and
acquisitions and pooling together of resources,” said Woodyer,
whose Cayman Islands-based company agreed in August to buy  Avion
Gold Corp. (AVR)  for C$377 million ($385 million). “Because there’s
always human issues and other factors to consider, people’s view
of value isn’t always the same.”  Endeavour shareholders on Oct. 12 approved the company’s
acquisition of Avion, which produces gold in Mali. The deal is
expected to close Oct. 18, Woodyer said. The company, which
already has mines in  Ghana  and  Burkina Faso  and is building a
new operation in  Ivory Coast , will focus on internal growth for
the foreseeable future, he said.  There have been 19 gold company takeovers totaling $4.3
billion for companies valued between $50 million to $500 million
announced this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. By
comparison, there were 24 deals valued at $5.43 billion
announced in the same period of last year.  While companies including  Belo Sun Mining Corp. (BSX)  have
successfully sold shares to fund gold projects, the total value
raised in equity offerings by mining companies this year has
dropped to just $6.19 billion according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, compared with $20.32 billion in the same period of
2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  