-- Merkel’s Government Rejects Second Greek Debt Cut to Ease Crisis
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-10-15T13:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/merkel-s-government-rejects-second-greek-debt-cut-to-ease-crisis.html
Germany  rejected a second debt
writedown for  Greece , digging in against suggestions for
European governments to accept losses on Greek holdings.  “A new haircut is out of the question as far as the German
government is concerned,” Steffen Seibert, Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s chief spokesman, said at a regular news briefing in
Berlin today. “We are working on sensible solutions with the
Greeks and our European partners.”  Seibert was responding to a reporter’s question about
comments by Rainer Bruederle, the parliamentary leader of
Merkel’s Free Democratic coalition ally, in which he floated the
idea of losses for Greece’s public creditors. Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Oct. 11 that European governments can’t
accept losses on Greek debt holdings.  Merkel, the leader of  Europe ’s biggest economy and the
biggest country contributor to euro-area bailouts, says she
wants to keep Greece in the currency union while avoiding new
aid as the country that set off the debt crisis faces a sixth
year of recession.  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  suggested that Greece may need another debt cut, saying
on Sept. 24 that the country’s financing gap won’t be bridged
with budget measures alone. She said last week that Greece may
need more time to meet its targets.  Investors have so far pledged 240 billion euros ($311
billion) in financial aid to Greece, which also had 100 billion
euros of debt written off by private-sector investors this year
in the biggest restructuring in history.  Greek ‘Friends’  Bruederle, a former German economy minister, said losses
for public creditors may be worth considering, though such a
plan “currently isn’t on the table,” according to comments
quoted by the Berlin-based Die Welt newspaper on Oct 11.  Merkel, who triggered anti-austerity protests when she
visited  Athens  for talks with Greek leaders on Oct. 9, struck a
supportive tone toward Greece in her weekly podcast.  “My impression is that we are seeing progress step by
step,” she said in the Oct. 13  video . “Often slower than we
imagined, but we should always give Greece a chance.” Germany
will demand that Greece fulfill commitments to overhaul its
economy and help “as friends,” she said.  “We want Greece to stay in the euro, but the work isn’t
completed,” Merkel told reporters in Berlin today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  