-- EU to Present Detailed Plan to Curb CO2 Oversupply on Nov. 14
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-10-15T19:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/eu-to-present-detailed-plan-to-curb-co2-oversupply-on-nov-14.html
The European Union’s regulatory arm
said it will present next month a detailed proposal to curb
oversupply on the carbon market, rebutting speculation it may
delay the plan.  “The European Commission will present the tailor-made and
proportionate impact assessment as well as the necessary details
of the proposal on 14 November so that  member states  can take a
decision before year-end,” Isaac Valero-Ladron, the climate
spokesman for the commission, said by e-mail today.  The commission’s comment came after a forecast by Bloomberg
New Energy Finance that it may delay until early next year the
details of its strategy to postpone auctions of some carbon
permits as of 2013 and help prices in the world’s biggest cap-
and-trade market recover.  EU emission permits for 2012 fell to a record low in April
after the financial crisis hurt industrial production and cut
demand from industry for pollution rights, boosting the glut of
allowances to almost a half of the average annual pollution
limit in the system.  EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  presented in July
an outline of a measure to postpone some auctions -- an idea
known as backloading -- and a draft amendment to the bloc’s
emissions trading law to reassert the commission’s right to
decide about the timing of carbon-permit sales.  The number of permits to be delayed wasn’t specified in the
draft measure and will now be included in the official proposal
to be submitted to national governments on Nov. 14, together
with an assessment of the impact of auction delays and a report
on long-term potential options to improve the EU carbon market.  Details of Plan  EU member states, whose support is needed for the
commission plan to take effect, are waiting for the impact
assessment and the report before taking positions on the draft
backloading proposal, according to the minutes of their Sept. 19
meeting published in an EU database earlier this month.  The commission may take several weeks after the publication
of the assessment to iron out details of the plan to tackle
oversupply and the precise volume of allowances to be withheld
may not be published this year, Bloomberg New Energy Finance
said earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  