-- EU Widens Sanctions on Syria as Divisions With Russia Persist
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-10-15T15:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/eu-widens-sanctions-on-syria-as-divisions-with-russia-persist.html
The European Union tightened
sanctions against the Syrian regime of President Bashar al-Assad
as violence in the country intensifies.  In the 19th round of penalties on  Syria , EU foreign
ministers prohibited the import of arms from the country as well
as any involvement by the 27-nation bloc in the transport of
Syrian weapons. The ministers also barred EU companies and
nationals from providing financial services to Syrian arms
exports.  In addition, building on an existing ban on cargo flights
from Syria, the ministers denied Syrian Arab Airlines access to
EU airports. Furthermore, they added 28 people to a list of
those subject to a travel ban and an asset freeze for their
alleged involvement in the “violent repression against the
civilian population” in Syria.  “We call on all states to refrain from delivering arms to
Syria and to follow the EU in stopping the supplies that fuel
the fighting,”  Catherine Ashton , the bloc’s foreign policy
chief, said in an e-mailed  statement  after the ministerial
decision today in Luxembourg. The details, including of two
further entities subject to an asset freeze, will be published
in the EU  Official Journal  tomorrow.  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said the EU failed to
bridge divisions with Russia over the handling of events in
Syria during a dinner last night in Luxembourg with Russian
Foreign Affairs Minister  Sergei Lavrov .  “I can’t say that we made any progress,” Hague told
reporters today. “We had an exchange of views. But as has been
the case for many months with Russia, we didn’t reach any
agreements.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Luxembourg at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  