-- Euro Falls on Growth Outlook, Spanish Aid Uncertainty
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-10-15T07:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/euro-falls-on-growth-outlook-spanish-aid-uncertainty.html
The euro fell for the first time in
three days versus the dollar as concern growth in the region is
faltering overshadowed prospects that leaders meeting this week
will agree on new measures to solve the debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency dropped against 10 of its 16 major
counterparts as investors waited for a decision on whether  Spain 
will seek a bailout and before a report forecast to show
investor confidence declined in  Germany , the region’s biggest
economy. New Zealand’s dollar weakened after a report showed
services shrank in September.  “Economic data from  Europe  are weak and continue to weigh
on the euro,” said  Marito Ueda , senior managing director in
Tokyo at  FX Prime Corp. (8711) , a currency-margin company. “There are
hopes Spain will request aid, but that is yet to be decided.”  The euro fell 0.2 percent to $1.2928 at 8:09 a.m. London
time after appreciating 0.6 percent over the past two trading
days. The single currency was little changed at 101.67 yen. The
dollar gained 0.2 percent to 78.57 yen.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research will say its
 index of expectations  among German investors and analysts was at
minus 14.9 this month from minus 18.2 in September, according to
the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before the report tomorrow. A gauge for  current conditions 
dropped to 11.8 from 12.6, a separate survey showed.  China Exports  China ’s exports to the European Union fell 10.7 percent in
September, a fourth month of declines, the Beijing-based Customs
General Administration said on Oct. 13. Bank of Israel Governor
 Stanley Fischer  said the world economy is “awfully close” to a
recession, adding to concern raised at annual meetings of the
 International Monetary Fund  last week.  EU leaders will meet in Brussels on Oct. 18-19 as  Greece 
seeks to justify renewed aid and Spain holds out from requesting
aid from the 500 billion euro permanent rescue fund, the
European Stability Mechanism.  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said on the
weekend in Tokyo that he felt “extremely comfortable” with his
country’s ability to fund itself through the rest of 2012. Spain
is scheduled to sell 12- and 18-month bills tomorrow, and notes
and bonds on Oct. 18. Spain’s 10-year bond yield ended trading
at 5.63 percent on Oct. 12, the lowest close since April 3.  “The euro would probably drop if Spain doesn’t request
aid,” said Kengo Suzuki, a currency strategist in  Tokyo  at
Mizuho Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s third-largest bank by
market value.  Euro’s Decline  The euro weakened 5.4 percent in the past 12 months, the
worst performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen
dropped 1.8 percent and the dollar gained 1.9 percent.  Figures from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
showed the difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro versus the
dollar compared with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts   --
was 72,570 on Oct. 9. That was the most since the period ended
Sept. 21. Bets on the yen’s  gains  against the greenback, or net
long positions, declined to 12,914 in the same period, the least
since the week through Aug. 21, the data show.  “There has been some major short covering in the  U.S.
dollar  over the past week,”  Mitul Kotecha , Hong Kong-based head
of foreign-exchange strategy at Credit Agricole CIB, wrote today
in an e-mailed note to clients. “The U.S. dollar will likely
continue to edge higher against the background of growing
cautiousness towards risk assets.”  The so-called kiwi fell for a second day against the dollar
after Bank of New Zealand Ltd. and Business New Zealand said
their Performance of Services Index fell to 49.6 in September.
It was the first time since October 2009 that the gauge was
below 50, the dividing line between expansion and contraction.  New Zealand’s currency depreciated 0.2 percent to 81.45
U.S. cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  