-- Yen Falls Against Major Peers as Haven Demand Ebbs on U.S. Sales
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-10-15T21:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/euro-erases-drop-versus-dollar-to-be-little-changed-at-1-2948.html
The yen weakened against all of its
16 most-traded counterparts except the South African rand as a
report showed U.S. retail sales rose more than forecast in
September, reducing demand for safety.  The euro fluctuated versus the dollar after an index showed
manufacturing in the New York area shrank for a third straight
month. The shared currency touched a one-week high against the
yen after German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said a
Greek default “will not happen.”  Mexico ’s peso climbed versus
most major peers, while the rand slid after  Standard & Poor’s 
cut South Africa’s credit rating on Oct. 12.  “We got a mixed snapshot on the  U.S. economy  today,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in  Washington  at Western Union
Business Solutions, a unit of  Western Union Co. (WU) , said in a
telephone interview. “There was good news on the consumer,
which can bode better for the outlook on spending. On the other
side of the coin, we saw that regional manufacturing remained a
weak spot.”  The yen depreciated 0.3 percent to 78.65 per dollar at 5
p.m. New York time, adding to a 0.3 percent decline over the
previous two trading days. It touched 78.86, the weakest level
since Oct. 5.  Japan ’s currency fell 0.2 percent to 101.84 per
euro and reached 102.29, the weakest level since Oct. 8. The
euro was little changed at $1.2949 after gaining 0.2 percent and
losing as much as 0.5 percent.  The Japanese currency has fallen 4.7 percent this year, the
worst performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
has dropped 2.3 percent, and the euro has lost 2.4 percent.  Low Volatility  Implied  volatility  among major currencies, which signals
the expected pace of price swings, reached a seven-year low. A
JPMorgan Chase & Co. index for Group-of-Seven currencies touched
7.47 percent, the lowest since October 2007, from 7.68 percent a
week ago. Lower volatility makes investments in currencies with
higher benchmark lending rates more attractive because the risk
in such trades is that market moves will erase profit. The
index’s average over the past five years is 12.4 percent.  Brazil ’s real, the  Mexican peso  and Sweden’s krona were the
biggest winners today among the greenback’s major counterparts.  The Brazilian currency gained versus the dollar for the
first time in four days. The real appreciated 0.3 percent to
2.0357 to the greenback.  The peso advanced 0.5 percent to 12.8035 to the American
currency. The U.S. is Mexico’s biggest trade partner.  The krona strengthened 0.6 percent to 6.6605 per dollar and
advanced 0.6 percent to 8.6245 per euro.  Retail Sales  U.S. retail sales  increased  1.1 percent in September,
Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington,
reflecting broad-based gains that indicate household spending
helped bolster economic growth last quarter. The advance
followed a revised 1.2 percent gain in August that was the
biggest since October 2010 and larger than previously reported.
A Bloomberg survey  projected  a 0.8 percent rise.  “Good retail sales should be decent for risk-taking,”
Brian Kim, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a
telephone interview. “The dollar is getting a little boost. The
data is helpful to the U.S. dollar versus yen.”  The  S&P 500 Index  gained 0.8 percent after slipping 0.1
percent earlier, and the MSCI World Index rose 0.5 percent.  Gains Tempered  Gains in risk appetite were tempered as a gauge of
manufacturing in the New York region contracted for a third
straight month in October. The Federal Reserve Bank of New
York’s general economic index rose to minus 6.2 from minus 10.4
in September, which was the lowest since April 2009. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for minus 4. Readings of
less than zero signal contraction in New York, northern  New
Jersey  and southern Connecticut.  Commodities declined, with the S&P GSCI Index of raw
materials decreasing as much as 1.4 percent before paring the
loss to 0.3 percent.  The rand has tumbled since S&P cut South Africa’s credit
rating last week by one level to BBB with a negative outlook.
The company cited concern that a wave of strikes in the nation’s
mining industry is placing pressure on  government spending .  The currency dropped 0.8 percent to 8.7994 per dollar.  No Insolvency  The euro gained earlier versus the yen as German Finance
Minister Schaeuble said there won’t be “a ‘Staatsbankrott’ in
 Greece ,” using the German word for state insolvency.  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis began in the nation three years ago.  “Greece has had to take a lot of very serious reforms”
and an increasing majority of the population “does understand
that being a member of the common European currency is in the
best interest of Greece,” Schaeuble said.  The euro fell earlier by the most in almost a week against
the yen amid concern the euro bloc’s turmoil may worsen and
economic growth in the region may falter. It depreciated as much
as 0.6 percent, the biggest intraday drop since Oct. 9.  “The euro recovered this morning by filling the gap and
retracing the losses earlier,” Dan Dorrow, head of research in
Stamford, Connecticut, at Faros Trading LLC, said in a telephone
interview. “The idea that they’re not going to let the Greek
situation fail and disrupt the market has been a consensus among
policy makers for a while.”  European Union leaders are scheduled to open a two-day
summit in Brussels on Oct. 18.  Moving Average  The euro may strengthen toward $1.3172 after holding above
its 200-day moving average of $1.2826, Credit Suisse Group AG
strategists including London-based Cilline Bain wrote today in a
note to clients. Support is an area on a chart where buy orders
may be clustered.  “We continue to be bullish and look for support at $1.2826
to hold firm,” the strategists wrote. “We see risk skewed
higher through $1.3011 and $1.3074 to re-test the $1.3172/78
zone,” they said.  Gains by the euro may be limited as investors wait to see
if  Spain  will seek a financial bailout.  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said over the
weekend in  Tokyo  that he was “extremely comfortable” with his
country’s ability to fund itself through 2012. The Spanish 10-
year  bond yield  increased 19 basis points, or 0.19 percentage
point, to 5.82 percent, after falling to 5.61 percent on Oct.
12, the least since Sept. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  