-- Ex-Morgan Stanley Executive’s Stabbing Charges Dropped
-- B y   A n d r e w   D u n n
-- 2012-10-15T15:35:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/ex-morgan-stanley-executive-s-stabbing-charges-dropped.html
Connecticut  prosecutors dropped the
charges against William Bryan Jennings, the former  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  U.S. bond-underwriting chief accused of stabbing a  New
York  cab driver over a fare.  Supervisory State’s Attorney Steven Weiss said today at a
hearing in  Stamford  that the case was dropped because the knife
Jennings allegedly used was held back from prosecutors for five
months by the cab driver.  “I simply can’t go forward with a case where I have the
victim withholding evidence from the police,” Weiss told
Superior Court Judge Kenneth Povodator.  Jennings was accused of attacking the driver, Mohamed
Ammar, on Dec. 22 with a 2 1/2-inch blade after a 40-mile
(64 kilometer) ride from New York to the banker’s $3.4 million
home in Darien, Connecticut. Ammar, a native of  Egypt  and a U.S.
citizen, said Jennings told him, “I’m going to kill you. You
should go back to your country,” according to a police report.  Jennings faced assault and hate-crime charges, each of
which brings a maximum sentence of five years in prison. He was
also charged with not paying the fare, a misdemeanor. He pleaded
not guilty March 9.  “Mr. Ammar had ample opportunity to tell the police” that
he had the knife, Weiss said today. He said he didn’t see any
public interest in arresting Ammar for withholding evidence.  Ammar’s attorney, Hassan Ahmad of Ahmad Navqi Rodriguez LLP
in New York, declined to comment on the case.  Jennings was in court with his attorney,  Eugene Riccio , for
today’s hearing. He didn’t speak during the six-minute
proceeding.  “I feel good,” he told reporters afterward. “The outcome
speaks for itself.”  Jennings flagged Ammar down in front of Ink48, a hotel on
 Manhattan ’s West Side, sometime before 11 p.m. after the banker
said his car service didn’t appear, according to the police
report. Jennings had been attending a company Christmas party.  Ammar told police that once they reached Jennings’s home,
he refused to pay the $204 fare they had agreed on. He said he
drove away to find police and that during the ride the banker
stabbed him in the hand. Jennings said that they never agreed on
an amount and that Ammar had demanded $294, which he viewed as
exorbitant.  Jennings no longer works at New York-based Morgan Stanley,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter who
declined to be named because the information isn’t public.  Mary Claire Delaney, a Morgan Stanley spokeswoman, declined
to comment on today’s proceeding.  Dismissal Motion  On March 28, Jennings filed a motion seeking to have the
case dismissed, arguing that Ammar contradicted himself in
statements to the police. The arrest warrant contained false
statements and omissions that “seriously undermine” Ammar’s
credibility, according to the filing by Jennings.  Riccio said today that the decision not to prosecute was
correct.  “It’s unfortunate when someone of prominence is arrested
and the public and the press jump to conclusions,” the lawyer
said. He declined to comment on possible civil claims against
his client.  The case is State of Connecticut v. Jennings 12-0176761,
Superior Court for the State of Connecticut (Stamford).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Dillon  at Connecticut Superior Court in Stamford at
   jdillon@snet.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  