-- Mexico Has World’s Highest Level of Energy Security
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-10-15T15:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/mexico-has-world-s-highest-level-of-energy-security.html
Mexico, which has monopoly power
over its oil production and sales, has the world’s highest level
of  energy security , according to a U.S. Chamber of Commerce
study of the largest energy-consuming nations.  The government-owned  Petroleos Mexicanos  ranks among the
world’s largest oil companies while Mexico’s energy expenditures
and carbon-dioxide emissions per person are relatively low,
according to the study released today that reviews data for 25
nations from 1980 to 2010.  “They are a very resource-rich country with very low
energy use per person,” Karen Harbert, president of the
Chamber’s Institute for 21st Century Energy, said today at a
Washington news conference, noting Mexico may not hold the
status in the future. “Oil production is going down in Mexico
and their transportation use is going way up.”  Energy production has been a national security concern for
the U.S. at least since the 1970s Arab oil embargo caused
gasoline prices to soar. The U.S. imported about 45 percent of
its petroleum last year, with about 22 percent originating in
the Middle East,  according to  the U.S. Energy Information
Administration. U.S. dependence on energy imports has declined
since 2005, amid the global economic slowdown and increased
reliance on other fuels including natural gas, the agency said.  Ranked Seventh  The U.S., which ranked seventh in the energy-security
report, may become a net exporter of natural gas by the end of
this decade, sooner than a previous government estimate of
reaching that status by about 2022, EIA Administrator  Adam Sieminski  said at U.S. Chamber event to release the industry
group’s report.  The “growth in shale gas and tight oil has made an
unbelievable difference to energy security in the U.S.,” he
said. “This looks like a pattern that is set to continue.”  While Mexico ranks highest in security, risks to that
status are increasing, according to the report. Although the
nation is the world’s seventh-largest oil producer, its output
is declining and natural-gas imports have increased since 1989,
the report said.  The study examined 28 metrics including fossil-fuel
imports, power generation and carbon-dioxide emissions,
primarily using data from the U.S. EIA and the Paris-based
International Energy Administration.  Norway, Ukraine  The report shows nations where energy security is least at
risk are the U.K.,  Norway ,  New Zealand ,  Denmark , Australia and
the U.S. Energy-security risk is highest in Ukraine, followed by
Thailand, South Korea, the Netherlands, Brazil, Italy,  Turkey 
and  Japan , it said.  “With no domestic energy resources of any consequence,
Japan imports virtually all of its fuels,” according to the
report.  Japan is reducing reliance on nuclear energy after an
earthquake and tsunami in March 2011 triggered a triple meltdown
at  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. The
accident created public opposition to nuclear power, and under
current plans all Japanese atomic plants will be shut this year,
according to the report.  China , the world’s second-largest economy, ranked 15th on
the Chamber’s list.  “China’s domestic energy production has not been able to
keep pace with demand, and it imports a growing portion of the
fuel it uses,” according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  