-- Fed’s Bullard Says 3.5% 2013 Growth Will Cut Unemployment
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-10-15T20:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/fed-s-bullard-says-3-5-2013-growth-will-cut-unemployment.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said U.S. economic growth will probably
pick up to 3.5 percent next year, pushing the  unemployment rate 
down to close to 7 percent.  “I still think it is reasonable to expect faster growth as
we go forward,” Bullard said in a speech in St. Louis. “The
normal expectation would be the effects start to dissipate”
from headwinds that have included the  European debt crisis  and
the slow housing recovery, he said.  The regional Fed bank president last week said he was still
weighing what position to advocate at next week’s  Federal Open
Market Committee  meeting, at which Fed officials will consider
whether to make adjustments to their purchases of $40 billion of
mortgage debt a month in a third round of quantitative easing.
He didn’t comment on monetary policy in his prepared remarks.  Bullard told reporters after the speech the meeting would
allow the committee to “review our current policy and see how
that is performing against expectations” and that changes in
asset purchases would be made over time in response to changes
in the economic outlook.  “How far you think the Fed will go depends in part on what
your view of the economic outlook of the U.S. is over the next
couple of years,” he said, making a comparison to changes in
 interest rates  in normal times. “The whole idea is to say this
is going to be outcome based, not based on a fixed amount or
fixed date.”  Removing Date  Bullard also repeated to reporters he favored removing the
date from the committee’s 2015 pledge to exceptionally low
rates.  “I am not happy with the date being in the statement,” he
said. The statement should suggest tightening based on data “in
a qualitative way,” rather than on specific thresholds for
unemployment and inflation, he said.  “The calendar date I think sends a pessimistic signal
about the future,” because consumers or businesses may misread
that to mean slow growth for years, he said.  Measures of inflation expectations “suggest a little bit
of trepidation in financial markets that the Fed might not keep
inflation under control” though are not “too worrisome at this
juncture,” Bullard said in his prepared remarks. Personal
consumption expenditure inflation will be 2 percent this year
and next, in line with the central bank’s target, he said.  Unemployment Down  “We think unemployment will continue to tick down as long
as the economy remains in expansion mode,” Bullard said to the
Missouri Council on Economic Education’s economic-outlook
luncheon. Bullard doesn’t vote on FOMC monetary policy this
year.  The unemployment rate in 2012 will be about 8 percent,
Bullard said, citing  St. Louis  Fed estimates made prior to the
most recent decline in the jobless rate below that mark.  “Europe is in recession” and “really struggling with
this crisis,” he said. “For 2013, we are only seeing a small
amount of growth, not a rapid rebound” and the region’s debt
crisis may take “many years to resolve.”  Recent economic data have been largely better than
expected, with  retail sales  rising 1.1 percent in September,
Commerce Department figures showed today. That followed
improvements in housing,  consumer confidence  and the
 unemployment rat e. The Fed’s Beige Book report on regional
conditions last week  said the  U.S. economy  was expanding
“modestly” last month, supported by improvements in housing
and auto sales, even as the labor market showed little change.  Voice Support  Bullard, who was the first policy maker to voice support
for asset purchases in 2010, has been viewed as a bellwether for
investors. His speeches and interviews moved the two-year
Treasury yield more than any other FOMC member last year,
according to a Macroeconomic Advisers report released Jan. 27.  Bullard joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of  Arkansas  and parts of Illinois,
 Indiana ,  Kentucky ,  Mississippi ,  Missouri  and Tennessee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  