-- Gagosian Opens New Space Outside Paris With Kiefer Show
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-10-15T15:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/gagosian-opens-giant-space-outside-paris-shows-anselm-kiefer.html
Two years after opening a Paris
branch, Gagosian, the world’s biggest commercial gallery
network, this week inaugurates a big space in Le Bourget -- 
on the grounds of a Paris airport where private jets land.  Designed by Jean Nouvel -- the Pritzker Prize-winning
French architect -- the gallery is a former 1950s hangar with
1,650 square meters (17,760 square feet) spread over two levels.
The inaugural exhibition is by German artist  Anselm Kiefer , 67.  The Gagosian opening coincides with the annual Foire
Internationale d’Art Contemporain, or FIAC, in Paris, which is
attracting a growing number of wealthy international art buyers.
The presence of billionaire French collectors such as  Francois Pinault  and  Bernard Arnault  is further boosting Paris’s appeal
as a destination for art dealerships.  “I liked the situation with the hangar here,” Kiefer said
in a media briefing on the new gallery’s upper level. “It’s
always a space of transition. You arrive and go away, and that’s
important for me.”  The centerpiece of the maiden exhibition is the
“Morgenthau Plan” -- a huge, golden field of handmade,
individually crafted wheat stalks surrounded by a tall, rust-
colored steel cage. The title refers to a radical 1944 plan
devised by then U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Morgenthau to
disarm  Germany  by stripping out its industry and turning it into
a purely agricultural state.  “I like all those ideas that don’t happen,” said Kiefer
of Morgenthau’s masterplan.  Space for Sculpture  He said he came up with the sculpture because, given the
size of the new space, “I thought it was not possible just to
hang paintings” (of which there are five in the show.)  Nouvel, also at the media preview, said he was shown the
building last June, and designed the space in four months. He
has put up four white partition-like walls inside, creating a
central area, and used the space outside the walls and beneath
the high ceiling to create display rooms and mezzanines.  The architect said the gallery was well located to receive
every kind of visitor, including collectors flying into Le
Bourget or nearby Charles de Gaulle airport on private jets.  The gallery opens to the public on Oct. 18, and will have
three to four shows a year. Kiefer’s exhibition ends in January
2013. Gagosian would not say what the next shows would be.  Muse highlights include  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris art,  John
Mariani  on wine,  Warwick Thompson  on London theater and  Jeremy
Gerard  on  New York  theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in Paris at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 