-- Gannett’s Profit Rises as TV Ad Spend Offsets Print Drop
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-10-15T20:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/gannett-reports-higher-profit-on-television-ad-spending.html
Gannett Co. (GCI) , the owner of 82 daily
newspapers and 23 television stations, reported a jump in third-
quarter profit as a decline in publishing revenue was offset by
political and Olympics television ad spending.  Net income rose 33 percent to $133.1 million, or 56 cents a
share, from $99.8 million, or 41 cents, a year earlier, the
McLean, Virginia-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts had estimated 53 cents on average, according to  data
compiled  by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Gracia Martore is trying to get
more customers to pay for its online services to stem a decline
in print advertising revenue, which fell 6.6 percent during the
period and contributed to a 3 percent decrease in overall
publishing sales. That was offset by a 38 percent gain in TV
advertising spending spurred by the U.S. presidential election
and the London Olympics.  “It wasn’t what I call a standout quarter, but it was
OK,”  Ed Atorino , a New York-based analyst with Benchmark Co. in
New York, said in an interview. “Digital was a little bit
disappointing but the stock still has terrific value,” said
Atorino, who recommends buying the shares.  The shares  declined  0.3 percent to $17.85 at the New York
close. The stock has gained 34 percent this year.  Digital Sales  Digital sales were up 4.7 percent to $182 million, due
primarily to revenue growth at jobs website CareerBuilder.com,
according to the statement. Total  sales  rose 3.4 percent to
$1.31 billion. Analysts had estimated $1.29 billion on average.  The company’s digital strategy has helped offset declines
in print advertising. Gannett has started to charge readers to
access its articles online, improving circulation revenue 5.6
percent in the most recent quarter.  The company has converted about half of its titles to the
so-called paywall, which Martore said should boost circulation
sales 25 percent to $100 million next year.  “We are seeing early successes and making great progress
in positioning Gannett for growth in the digital era,” Martore
said on a call with analysts today.  Gannett’s flagship newspaper, USA Today, has employed a
different strategy, relying on a free model online. The
publication, led by publisher Lawrence Kramer, recently
underwent a design change in print and online that has attracted
 criticism .  Spending on newspaper advertising declined almost 8 percent
in the second quarter of this year, while online ad dollars
increased 2.9 percent, according to the most recent data from
the Newspaper Association of America.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Crayton Harrison at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net  