-- Retail Gasoline in U.S. Drops as California Prices Begin to Ease
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-10-16T02:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/gasoline-pump-prices-in-u-s-fall-to-3-819-a-gallon-correct-.html
Gasoline at U.S. pumps dropped as
regulators in  California  responded to shortages that drove
retail prices to a state record earlier this month.  The national average price for regular gasoline declined
3.1 cents to $3.819 a gallon from a week earlier, the U.S.
Energy Information Administration said in a  report  posted on the
agency’s website yesterday. The price was $3.476 a year ago,
department data show.  Gasoline at pumps in California rose to a record $4.671 a
gallon on Oct. 9 because of refinery disruptions and equipment
shutdowns, driving the nationwide average to $3.85 last week.
 Retail prices  in the state fell 3.6 cents a gallon this week
after state regulators permitted refineries to make gasoline
with higher vapor pressure, allowing them to increase production
by adding butane to the mix.  “California prices are down and they’re going to continue
to drop,” David Hackett, president of independent fuel
consultant Stillwater Associates in  Irvine , said by telephone
yesterday. “Now that we’re solidly in the winter season,
refiners can make more gasoline, so the whole refinery component
of the equation has been mollified.”  Gasoline prices will track the price of oil, which makes up
about two-thirds of the cost of the motor fuel, Hackett said.  Oil for November delivery slipped 1 cent to settle at
$91.85 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange yesterday.
Nymex gasoline futures also dropped 4.25 cents to $2.8503 a
gallon yesterday.  Gasoline Inventories      Motor-gasoline inventories probably climbed by 250,000
barrels to 195.7 million last week, according to a median of
eight analyst estimates before an Energy Department report
tomorrow. Inventories dropped to 195.4 million barrels in the
previous week, the lowest level since October 2008.  Crude supplies  probably rose for a second week, gaining 1.5
million barrels to 367.9 million last week, the Bloomberg survey
showed.  Retail gasoline fell in every region of the U.S. this week
except the Gulf Coast, where prices climbed 0.7 cent to $3.544 a
gallon, the Energy Department said.  “You should see lower prices for the next few weeks,”
James Williams, president of WTRG Economics, an energy-research
firm in  London ,  Arkansas , said by telephone yesterday. “This
has been a maintenance period for a lot of refineries, and there
have been refineries now coming back online.”  The Energy Department conducts a telephone survey of about
800 retail gasoline outlets across the U.S. each Monday to post
weekly gasoline prices as of 8 a.m. local time that day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  