-- Gasoline Falls as Plants Increase Rates, Boosting Supply
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-10-15T20:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/gasoline-falls-as-plants-increase-rates-boosting-supply.html
Gasoline fell a third straight day
on speculation refinery production will increase, boosting
supplies of the motor fuel.  Futures slid as refiners along the East Coast processed the
most oil since December in the week ended Oct. 5, Energy
Department data show. Spot gasoline weakened in the East Coast
and  Gulf Coast  markets last week. Speculators cut bullish bets
on  gasoline  0.3 percent in the week ended Oct. 9, according to
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of
Traders report.  “We’ve seen big drops in the cash markets as the
refineries come back on,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market
analyst at Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “Refiners are free
to make the winter blends now. Supplies should climb and that
has broken the back of the market.”  Gasoline for November delivery fell 4.25 cents, or 1.5
percent, to $2.8503 a gallon on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange, the lowest settlement since Oct. 3. Prices gained 2
percent last week.  Plants along the East Coast processed 1.09 million barrels
a day of crude in the seven days ended Oct. 5, up 24 percent
from the prior week.  Delta Air Lines Inc.’s Monroe Energy LLC subsidiary has
increased rates at its 185,000-barrel-a-day Trainer refinery in
 Pennsylvania , which would increase supplies in New York Harbor
region. The refinery was closed over a year ago by former owner
ConocoPhillips.  Spot Markets  In New York Harbor, reformulated gasoline to be blended
with ethanol, or RBOB,  sank  12 cents to 17 cents a gallon over
futures last week. The premium narrowed another 6 cents today to
11 cents a gallon.  On the Gulf Coast, Motiva Enterprises LLC may restart a
damaged 325,000-barrel-a-day crude unit at its Port Arthur,
Texas, refinery in December, according to people familiar with
operations. RBOB  slipped  8.75 cents to a 1.5-cent discount last
week and lost another 0.5 cent today.  “The decline is indicative of supply returning to the
market,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC
in Houston.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, slipped
a fourth consecutive day, declining 0.7 cent to $3.787 a gallon
yesterday, according to AAA, the nation’s largest motoring
organization.  Supplies in the Central Atlantic section of the East Coast,
which includes New York Harbor, the delivery point for Nymex
futures, increased 1 million barrels last week, the first gain
since August.  November-delivery heating oil fell 1.48 cents, or 0.5
percent, to settle at $3.2091 a gallon on the exchange, after
gaining 2.2 percent last week.  Money managers raised bullish bets on  heating oil , a proxy
for diesel, by 1,291 futures and options combined, or 4.9
percent, to 27,386, the highest level since the week ended May
8, the CFTC report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  