-- Gates, Paltrow Join Omnibus on Looming Viral Pandemics
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2012-10-15T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/gates-paltrow-join-omnibus-on-looming-viral-pandemics-books.html
The international flight I took
earlier this year was probably the worst place to watch the
movie “ Contagion ,” in which  Gwyneth Paltrow  flies from  Hong
Kong  to the U.S. unwittingly carrying the germs of a pandemic.  Hollywood thrillers, flu shots, lab animals and the Gates
foundation are some of the many things cast in a new light by
 David Quammen ’s smart, challenging book, “ Spillover: Animal
Infections and the Next Human Pandemic .”  Quammen, an award-winning writer (“ The Song of the Dodo ,”
“ Monster of God ”), covered a lot of turf during the six years
he spent chasing the history, research and people involved in
zoonosis, which occurs when a disease jumps from animals to
humans (“spillover” is any species-to-species leap).  The jumps on Quammen’s “short list of the highlights and
high anxieties” in the world of viruses from 1967 to 2009
include Marburg, Lassa, Ebola, HIV-1, Sin Nombre (a hantavirus),
avian flu, Nipah (the basis for Paltrow’s bug), West Nile and
SARS.  In a recent essay, Quammen cites fresh outbreaks of Ebola
in Africa, West Nile fever in  Dallas  and hantavirus in Yosemite
National Park.  It never ends. More important, sometimes it goes big: the
1918-19 flu’s 50 million dead or the roughly 30 million dead of
AIDS since 1981.  Don’t panic. Quammen’s more teacher than Jeremiah. So he
calms when he can; but he’s blunt when he must be.  Destroying Ecosystems  The fact is that we humans have been laying the groundwork
for the Next Big One for more than a century: “when we encroach
upon the host populations, hunting them for meat, dragging or
pushing them out of their ecosystems, disrupting or destroying
those ecosystems.”  Deforestation in Borneo opened the door to a forest-
dwelling malarial mosquito that usually bites macaques but will
bite people if they’ve killed or displaced the macaques. We keep
asking for the leap, the zoonosis, to happen.  Then there are the well-intentioned disasters. The number
of human cases of herpes B, common for macaques but rare and
highly fatal for people, shot up in the U.S. during the race for
a polio vaccine. So did imports of macaques. A single project
consumed 17,000 monkeys between 1949 and 1951.  The tireless Quammen digs into overcrowded goat barns in
the Netherlands; bat caves in Guilin,  China  (bats are everywhere
in virus work); “818 pureed bedbugs from Ebola-affected
villages”; fecal samples from almost 3,000 wild apes -- “You
don’t need a syringe full of blood if a little poo will do.”  Frozen Urine  Quammen reports from the front lines where zoonosis emerges
and scientists puree bedbugs. He humanizes the players behind
the lab and field work with quick descriptions or wry
observation. Beatrice Hahn, a pivotal figure in AIDS research
and developer of the “little poo” technique, gets an e-mail
asking “whether she would like six tubs of frozen Gombe
urine,” to which she replies, “‘YES, YES, YES.”’  These are extraordinary people engaged in often tedious and
dangerous labor, like a man named Mike Fay undertaking a 2,000-
mile biological survey of Central  Africa  on foot. They not only
inspire with their undoubtedly underpaid dedication, but they
leaven the denser moments of unavoidable science.  As does Quammen, with his sense of humor and language --
“A plate of Ebola virions mixed with Hendra virions would
resemble capellini in a light sauce of capers.”  Get Smart  He’s also just a good explainer. I got my resolutely
nonscientific brain around a cool concept in AIDS research and
almost lofted a fist pump. As Quammen writes: “The purpose of
this book is not to make you more worried. The purpose of this
book is to make you more smart.”  With the right knowledge, we may admire the Bill & Melinda
Gates Foundation’s long-term goal to eradicate malaria and yet
still question it, as Quammen does. How do you address the
malarial parasite transmitted by the Anopheles mosquito? Kill
the hosts? Or “cure every macaque in the forests of Borneo?”  The AIDS story, our once and present Next Big One (“34
million living people now infected”), closes “Spillover” with
an elegant combination of research, reporting and fine narrative
(Quammen has also published four books of fiction).  A key moment: “The AIDS pandemic is traceable to a single
contingent event ... a bloody interaction between one chimpanzee
and one human ... in southeastern Cameroon, around the year
1908.” The narrative is Quammen’s recreation of how that event
moved into populated areas.  It is one more reminder that behind the pandemic’s deaths,
social upheaval and the art it inspired, a simple truth remains:
“We humans are inseparable from the natural world.”  “Spillover: Animal Infections and the Next Human
Pandemic” is published by Norton in the U.S. and Bodley Head in
the U.K. (587 pages, $28.95, 20 pounds). To buy this book in
 North America , click  here .  (Jeffrey Burke is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Amanda Gordon  on parties and  Craig
Seligman  on movies.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in  New York  at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 