-- German Renewables Fee Rises 47%, Opening Government Rift
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-10-15T13:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/german-renewables-surcharge-rises-47-opening-government-rift.html
Germany ’s power grid operators
boosted the surcharge consumers pay for funding renewable energy
to a record, triggering a rift between two ministers in
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Cabinet.  The four grid companies set the fee paid through power
bills at 5.28 euro cents (6.8 cents) a kilowatt-hour in 2013, up
47 percent from 3.59 cents now. Economy Minister Philipp Roesler
wants to lower a federal electricity tax to help counter the
increase, he told reporters today in Berlin. Environment
Minister  Peter Altmaier  wants to offer consumers free advice on
saving energy instead.  Merkel’s government is seeking to prevent a voter backlash
against raising energy costs before the next general election in
the autumn of 2013. Last week, Altmaier set out plans to cap
subsidies for wind, biomass and solar power that have surged
since 2004 when the government guaranteed above-market prices
for electricity generated from clean sources.  Renewable energy has come of age in Germany, and “it’s
time for the system of subsidies to grow up too,”  Michael Fuchs , the deputy parliamentary leader of Merkel’s Christian
Democratic bloc, said in an e-mailed statement. “Whoever has 25
percent of the market share must be treated as such.”  Total Subsidy  The total subsidy next year will amount to about 20.36
billion euros, which is paid for by consumers through their
power bills. The fee increase will raise the bill of the average
German household with 3,500 kilowatt-hours of consumption by 59
euros a year. That impact was inflated by exemptions for big
industrial users and leftover costs from the previous year, the
operators said.  Altmaier on Oct. 11 announced his proposal for a
“fundamental” reform of the country’s clean-energy subsidy
system, which has helped raise the share of renewables to 25
percent of the electricity mix. He wants to cap subsidy payments
once generation capacity reaches a certain target and to offer
consumers free advice on how to make their own homes more
efficient, reducing consumption and bills in the process.
Lowering the power tax as proposed by Roesler “doesn’t yet
convince me,” Altmaier told German broadcaster ARD on Oct. 7.  While Altmaier says the country needs to take time to
discuss changes to the clean-energy subsidy law, Roesler
supports new legislation as quickly as possible, he said today,
citing a proposal for a new model his party put forward last
month.  Alarming Signal  The new surcharge is an “alarming signal,” Roesler told
reporters. Altmaier’s proposal to draw up a bill after a round
of stakeholder talks ends in May 2013 doesn’t reflect the urgent
action needed, Roesler said. “We must act now,” he said.  Instead of blaming renewables, Roesler should cancel
unnecessary exemptions for industrial consumers including banks
and slaughterhouses,  Juergen Trittin , co-leader of the
opposition  Green Party , said today in a statement. Such a move
would reduce subsidy costs by 4 billion euros and push down the
fee by 1 euro cent, he said.  The debate over power prices is short-sighted because
Germany will save 570 billion euros by 2050 if it scraps nuclear
plants, said the Renewable Energy Research Association, a group
of clean-energy research institutes.  “The investments made now, at the beginning, will pay off
within a foreseeable time frame and have a positive economic
impact,” the group said on Oct. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  