-- Ghana’s Duffuor Says Oil Output May Boost Economic Growth
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2012-10-15T10:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/ghana-s-duffuor-says-oil-output-may-see-growth-beat-forecast.html
Ghana ’s economy may expand 9 percent
this year, beating a forecast from the government’s statistics
agency, as oil production increases and the cedi strengthens,
Finance Minister  Kwabena Duffuor  said.  “Oil production has picked up, we are now making almost
90,000 barrels a day,” he said in an interview in the capital,
Accra, on Oct. 12. “The macro-economic situation is very
strong.”  If the forecast is attained, it will be faster than the
Ghana Statistical Service’s provisional outlook of 7.1 percent
annual growth, a figure projected last month, and closer to the
ministry’s initial expectation of 9.4 percent made in its budget
for the year in November.  The start of oil exports in late 2010 helped propel growth
in Ghana, the second-biggest economy in West Africa, to 14.4
percent in 2011, the fastest pace on the continent. Output from
the Jubilee field fell in the first half of this year to an
average of 63,000 barrels a day, according to the  Bank of Ghana .  Ghana’s budget deficit and inflation goals remain within
reach, even as the country heads to presidential and
parliamentary elections in December, Duffuor said. The domestic
currency weakened 16 percent in the first seven months of the
year as the growing economy boosted demand for imports and
foreign currency. Since Aug. 1, the cedi has gained 3.2 percent,
the second-strongest in the period among 22 African currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. It weakened less than 0.1 percent to
1.8935 a dollar by 10:01 a.m.  Attain Targets  “The depreciation was very fast but now we have taken
control of the economy,” Duffuor said. “Election or no
election, the cedi will appreciate and we will attain our
deficit target and inflation will remain in a single digit.”  Ghana’s  inflation  rate fell for the first time in seven
months to 9.4 percent in September from 9.5 percent in August,
the statistics agency said on Oct. 10. Duffuor raised the budget
deficit target to 6.7 percent of gross domestic product from 4.8
percent in July amid plans to spend more on civil-servant wages.  The Bank of Ghana kept its  benchmark   interest rate 
unchanged at 15 percent last month after three increases this
year helped halted the cedi’s slide against the dollar, along
with measures to sell more local-currency Treasury bills and a
directive to banks to hold reserves in cedis.  President John Dramani Mahama, who came to office following
the July death of John Atta Mills, faces opposition leader Nana Akufo-Addo, whom Mills defeated in 2008 by less than 1
percentage point. Mahama’s ruling National Democratic Congress
will also bid to retain control of Parliament on Dec. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  