-- Ghana Police Kill Chinese Citizen, Detain 100 in Mining Raid
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-15T11:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/ghana-police-kill-chinese-citizen-detain-100-in-mining-raid.html
Police in the West African country
of  Ghana  killed one Chinese citizen in a raid and detained more
than 100 other Chinese on suspicion of illegal gold mining,
according to a  statement  on the Chinese embassy’s website.  The person killed in the Oct. 11 raid was identified only
by the surname Chen, according to the statement. He was a 16-
year-old boy, according to China’s state-run Xinhua News Agency.  Ghanaian Interior Minister William Kwasi Aboah said the
operation was conducted jointly by the military and police, and
that the Chinese citizens “have immigration issues.” He spoke
in a phone interview today.  Ghana has faced an influx of illegal small-scale miners
from China as global  gold prices  climb. About 30 percent of
Ghana’s total output is produced by an estimated 1 million
miners who use shovels and picks, according to the Chamber of
Mines, which has asked the government to tighten industry
regulation.  Gold has risen more than 11 percent this year and was
trading at 1,745.70 an ounce by 11:32 a.m. in London, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ghana is Africa’s second-biggest gold producer after  South
Africa  and companies that operate in the country include U.S.-
based  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , South Africa’s  AngloGold Ashanti
Ltd. (ANG)  and Johannesburg-based  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  Foreigners are
barred from participating in small-scale mining in Ghana. They
are only permitted to offer supporting goods and services.  Investigate Case  “We demand the Ghanaian side investigate the case and
punish the perpetrators as soon as possible and inform the
Chinese side of relevant information about the investigation,”
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said at a briefing
in Beijing today.  Chinese ambassador Gong Jianzhong, who met with Ghanaian
officials, called for compensation to the family of the victim,
according to the embassy statement.  Ghana’s inspector-general of police set up a committee in
August with the Ministry of Natural Resources and the Minerals
Commission to investigate illegal mining. About 20 Chinese
miners arrested without residential and work permits will be
tried soon, said Frank Koffi, operations director of the
Criminal Investigation Department. Thirty-eight were deported
last month, according to a Sept. 30 Chinese embassy statement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  