-- Gillard to Promote Uranium Sales in Visit to Power-Starved India
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-10-15T03:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/gillard-to-promote-uranium-sales-in-visit-to-power-starved-india.html
Julia Gillard  will use her first
visit to India as Australia’s prime minister to begin uranium-
sale talks, looking to open up a new market after appetite for
nuclear fuel waned in the wake of  Japan ’s Fukushima disaster.  Gillard, who will meet Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  and
Congress Party President  Sonia Gandhi  in a three-day visit to
 New Delhi  that begins today, will exploit an opening created
when her party overturned a ban on uranium exports to India in
December. She is aiming to tap increasing energy demand in the
world’s second-most populous nation, which suffered widespread
power blackouts this summer.  Exporting uranium to India will help Australian miners such
as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group-controlled  Energy
Resources of Australia Ltd . as falling commodity prices reduce
revenues and a mining boom peaks. For India, building nuclear
plants is one answer to address a power shortfall that curtails
annual economic growth by as much as 1.2 percentage points.  “Any new market for uranium for Australian companies will
be welcome with Germany and Japan phasing out nuclear energy
post-Fukushima and demand for base metals off their highs,”
said  David Lennox , a resource analyst at Fat Prophets, a Sydney-
based mining researcher and wealth management provider. “India
has a large, growing population, an established economy and is
already a big buyer of our coal.”  The price of uranium for immediate delivery, which soared
to a record $136 a pound in 2007, declined to a two-year low
last month and was trading at $45.75 on Oct. 8, according to Ux
Consulting, a Roswell, Georgia-based uranium information
provider. BHP and  Paladin Energy Ltd. (PDN)  have slowed or deferred
development this year of some projects to produce the raw
material in nuclear reactor fuel.  Power Cuts  India’s government plans to spend about $175 billion over
the next two decades as it seeks to curb power shortfalls
crippling the economy. Power cuts are hurting industrial
production amid an average 9 percent shortfall in peak power
demand, according to the Central Electricity Authority.  Last year’s meltdown at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant and Indian protests over nuclear safety in the wake of the
catastrophe haven’t deterred Singh from pushing ahead with plans
to build more atomic power stations. The government aims to
generate 8 percent of power from nuclear energy by 2030, up from
2.3 percent currently.  “Striking a deal on uranium exports is the big-ticket item
that remains outstanding between the two countries,” said Uday
Bhaskar, an adviser to New Delhi-based research group Society
for Policy Studies. Getting supplies from Australia “would
provide a lot of stability to  India ’s nuclear program,” he
said.  Uranium Ban  Australia, the world’s third-biggest uranium supplier,
previously banned sales to India because it wasn’t a signatory
to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. The South Asian nation
has signed civil nuclear agreements with countries including the
U.S.,  France  and  Russia  after a three-decade ban on uranium
supplies was lifted in September 2008 by the 46-member  Nuclear
Suppliers Group , which is charged with reducing proliferation by
controlling the transfer of materials used to develop an atomic
weapon.  Gillard’s government is expected to negotiate a treaty with
India that replicates the conditions of the NPT, Australian
Uranium Association Chief Executive Michael Angwin said in an
Oct. 11 interview in Canberra. “Sales probably are still
several years away,” he said.  Relations Clouded  Relations between the two countries were clouded in 2009 by
a wave of attacks on Indian students studying in  Melbourne ,
 Australia ’s second-biggest city, that resulted in a drop in
applications for student visas.  Two-way goods and services trade totaled $21 billion in the
year to June 30, 2011, led by sales of coal and gold, according
to Australia government figures. India was Australia’s fourth-
largest export market in the period.  Australia’s economy has been powered by Chinese demand for
 iron ore , coal and natural gas. With growth having slowed in the
world’s second-biggest economy for six quarters, some mining
projects in Australia are being delayed.  In August, BHP put approvals for about $68 billion of
projects on hold, including the Olympic Dam copper and uranium
mine, which Deutsche Bank estimated would cost $33 billion to
build. Spot prices for iron ore, Australia’s biggest commodity
export, are down 40 percent since reaching a record high of
$191.90 a metric ton on Feb. 16 last year, according to The
Steel Index Ltd.  Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  last month said the
global boom in commodity prices was over, increasing the
importance of boosting exports into developing economies such as
India.  “India, the world’s biggest democracy and one of the
fastest growing major economies, stands in the front rank of
Australia’s international partnerships and will be a key part of
Australia’s future in the Asian Century,” Gillard said in an
Oct. 11 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  