-- Gold, Silver Drop Most in Three Months on Economy, China
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-10-15T18:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/gold-declines-on-dollar-strength-silver-gold-declines-o.html
Gold and silver futures fell the
most in three months amid concern that the global economy is
slowing and  China  may refrain from additional economic stimulus.  Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer said the world is
“awfully close” to a recession. People’s Bank of China Deputy
Governor Yi Gang said that while policy makers will provide
“appropriate” stimulus to stabilize growth, the central bank’s
main task is price stability, citing bubble risks in housing.  “There are no clear signals from China whether there will
be more stimulus,” Phil Streible, a senior commodity broker at
R.J. O’Brien & Associates in Chicago, said in a telephone
interview. “Also, overall slowdown concern is sending all
commodities, including precious metals, down.”  Gold futures for December delivery tumbled 1.3 percent to
settle at $1,737.60 an ounce on the Comex at 1:47 p.m. in  New
York , the biggest drop for a most-active contract since July 6.
The metal fell 1.2 percent last week.  Silver futures for December delivery declined 2.8 percent
to $32.743 an ounce, the largest decline since June 21.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24  raw materials 
slipped as much as 1.4 percent to a one-week low.  Gold declined before tomorrow’s second U.S. presidential
debate because investors are concerned that Republican  Mitt Romney  may cut  government spending  if elected, Streible said.  “Romney strength is negative for gold as he is anti-
government spending,” Streible said.  Some polls showed that Romney gained momentum following the
first debate against President  Barack Obama  on Oct. 3. The
election is on Nov. 6.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
January delivery slumped 1.6 percent to $1,632.30 an ounce.
Palladium futures for December delivery slipped 1 percent to
$632.60 an ounce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  