-- Google Rebuked by EU Privacy Watchdogs on Data Protection Policy
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-10-15T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/google-rebuked-by-eu-privacy-watchdogs-over-data-protection-1-.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  was told by European
Union regulators to bolster its privacy policy in a warning that
may trigger a new round of clashes with data-protection
watchdogs across the bloc.  The company “empowers itself to collect vast amounts of
personal data about  Internet users ” without demonstrating that
this “collection was proportionate,” the privacy regulators
said in a letter yesterday to Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page , obtained by  Bloomberg News .  “Google should modify its practices when combining data
across services,” according to the letter. The company should
clarify why and how it combines data, and report on how it
processes users’ personal information, the regulators said. The
findings will be announced at a press conference in Paris today.  Google, operator of the world’s largest search engine, is
facing privacy investigations by authorities around the world as
it debuts new services and steps up competition with  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  for users and advertisers. Google changed its system this
year to create a uniform set of policies for more than 60
products, unleashing criticism from regulators and consumer
advocates concerned it isn’t protecting data it collects.  Google spokeswoman Niki Fenwick declined to comment on the
letter yesterday.  France ’s National Commission for Computing and Civil
Liberties, or CNIL, led the investigation into Google on behalf
of the so-called Article 29 Data Protection Working Party, which
represents European authorities.  Street View  Google has also faced scrutiny over its Street View mapping
service after cars it sent out to take photos collected so-
called payload data from unrestricted Wi-Fi networks. The
company said it was done mistakenly. CNIL issued its heaviest
sanction after the incident, fining the company 100,000 euros
($129,000) in 2011.  Google described the policy, which took effect on March 1,
as “providing users with clear and comprehensive information
about how we use data,” according to an Oct. 11 e-mail from
Brussels-based spokesman Al Verney. “We are confident that our
privacy notices respect the requirements of European data
protection laws,” he said.  Google should work with data-protection authorities when it
devises services that could impact users’ privacy, and was asked
to give CNIL a schedule for when it “will update its privacy
policy and practices to implement our recommendations,”
according to the letter.  Sanction Powers  Some European authorities, like CNIL, can impose fines for
non-compliance, though the letter contained no details on the
consequences of refusing to change the policy. Google twice
rebuffed CNIL requests to wait to implement the changes until it
could assess whether they comply with the bloc’s standards.  “There’s a bit of ‘payback’ here as well,” said  Greg Sterling , an analyst at Opus Research in  San Francisco . “Google
decided to go ahead and implement the new policy despite being
asked to delay it by European regulators who wanted more time to
study it.”  The EU group is “happy” Google responded to two rounds of
written public questioning by CNIL, though “grey areas still
remain,” according to the letter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  