-- Green Dot Turns Into Target on Prepaid Demand: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-10-15T20:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/green-dot-turns-into-target-on-prepaid-demand-real-m-a.html
Green Dot Corp. (GDOT) , the largest U.S.
seller of prepaid debit cards, is offering potential buyers the
biggest bargain in one of the fastest-growing areas of consumer
finance.  Green Dot’s market value fell by almost two-thirds this
year to $473 million as increased competition from rivals such
as  American Express Co. (AXP)  threatens its hold on card sales at
retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  That’s left the
Monrovia, California-based company trading at 2.4 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, the
cheapest in the U.S. consumer-finance industry, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Piper Jaffray Cos. said banks may be lured by Green Dot’s
foothold in the prepaid card industry, which grew 18 percent
last year as consumers rebuffed higher fees on checking
accounts. Even as that growth draws more competitors, credit-
card lenders  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  and Discover Financial
Services may consider buying Green Dot, Wedbush Inc. said. With
a free  cash flow  yield that’s almost double the industry median,
Green Dot could draw bids of as much as $15 a share, a 53
percent premium, according to First Analysis Corp.  “There’s a lot of value here,” John Kraft, a  Lake Oswego ,
Oregon-based analyst at D.A. Davidson & Co., said in a telephone
interview. “Despite what’s happening with the stock, these guys
are still the leader in the space, and so anyone who wants to
get a jump start would love to have Green Dot’s network and
distribution partners.”  Brian Ruby, a spokesman for Green Dot who works for ICR
Inc., declined to comment on whether the company had been
approached by any suitors or would be open to a sale.  Retail Distribution  Incorporated in 1999, Green Dot is a financial-services
company offering prepaid, reloadable  debit cards  at retailers
from Wal-Mart, its biggest distributor, to Walgreens drug stores
and Kroger supermarkets. The company, which completed its
initial share sale in 2010, bought Provo, Utah-based Bonneville
Bancorp the following year to gain its own banking operations.  Green Dot shares plunged 61 percent on July 27, their
biggest one-day drop, after the company slashed its 2012
earnings forecast on expectations that its results would be
crimped as retailers started offering other prepaid debit cards
to compete with its products. The stock plunged again last week,
bringing its year-to-date decline to 69 percent, after Wal-Mart
said it would expand distribution of a rival card it developed
in partnership with American Express.  Today, Green Dot climbed 5.8 percent to $10.37, the biggest
gain in the Russell 2000 Financial Services Index.  One of Green Dot’s strengths “was their distribution
channel and the fact that they had this exclusive arrangement in
those distribution channels,”  Sanjay Sakhrani , a New York-based
analyst with KBW Inc., said in a phone interview. “Those
exclusive agreements have been broken down.”  Card Growth  Green Dot’s  enterprise value  of $247 million last week was
lower relative to Ebitda than any other U.S. consumer finance
firm and less than a third of the group’s median multiple of 8.4
times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Even as the possibility of increased competition drags down
Green Dot’s stock, the company may attract banks looking to take
advantage of growth in the prepaid card market, Michael Grondahl, an analyst with Piper Jaffray, wrote in a Sept. 24
note to clients.  “It is likely more banks are looking for ways to enter the
market, and entry may need to be expedited to remain
competitive,” Grondahl wrote. Green Dot “could be a possible
acquisition target as it would give a buyer instant scale and
legitimacy in prepaid.”  Banking Trends  About 13 percent of U.S. consumers had prepaid cards in
2011, compared with 11 percent in 2010, according to a study
released in April from Pleasanton, California-based Javelin
Strategy & Research. Over the same period, the number of
consumers using checking accounts, debit and credit cards all
declined, the study showed.  More consumers are turning to prepaid cards to avoid
checking account fees that have surged as the Dodd-Frank Act
curbs banks’ revenue from other sources including debit
transactions and overdraft charges.  Prepaid cardholders on average said they pay about $1.96 to
add money to their cards, according to the Javelin study. For a
traditional checking account, an average consumer may pay about
$7.72 a month in monthly and automated-teller-machine fees this
year, 21 percent more than in 2006, Javelin said in a separate
report earlier this year.  Green Dot may  charge  as much as a $4.95 activation fee for
cards purchased through a store, plus $5.95 a month unless
cardholders meet certain transaction or other requirements. The
company doesn’t charge an activation fee for cards purchased on
the Internet.  Expanding Appeal  “Prepaid meant something three years ago that it’s not
going to mean three years from now,”  David Robertson , the
Carpinteria, California-based publisher of the Nilson Report,
which tracks consumer payment systems, said in a phone
interview. “At one time it was almost completely identifiable
with the unbanked and underbanked. Now, that is not going to go
away, but the number of people who are looking for prepaid
products will expand.”  Banks from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  to
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  may seek to buy Green Dot to take advantage of
the growth in prepaid cards, according to Robertson.  Credit-card firms Capital One and Discover also may be
interested in bidding for the company, said  Gil Luria , a Los
Angeles-based analyst at Wedbush.  For the “card-based financial institutions, this would be
very incremental and accretive,” Luria said in a phone
interview. “They’re buying a money-making business.”  Cash Flow  Representatives for Bank of America, Wells Fargo, Capital
One and  Discover (DFS)  declined to comment on whether they would be
interested in acquiring Green Dot. A Citigroup spokeswoman
didn’t respond to phone messages or e-mails seeking comment.  Green Dot’s minimal debt and cash flow generation could
even appeal to a private-equity firm, according to Larry Berlin,
a Chicago-based analyst at First Analysis.  Green Dot had total debt of just $35.5 million at the end
of the second quarter, and cash of $262 million, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Its free cash flow yield, a measure
of how much cash from operations a business generates relative
to its share price, is 18.6 percent, almost twice the median 9.5
percent for the U.S. consumer finance industry, the data show.  “If you do things right, you could run a good amount of
free cash flow out of it, lever it up a bit and make a good
multiple on the exit in a few years,” Berlin said in a phone
interview.  Potential Roadblocks  While a buyer could offer as much as $15 a share for Green
Dot, management may not be willing to sell as its  stock trades 
almost 70 percent below this year’s peak, he said. Also, Wal-
Mart’s decision to expand sales of the American Express prepaid
cards may make Green Dot “a little bit less attractive” for
both strategic and financial buyers, Berlin said.  Green Dot’s purchase of Bonneville Bancorp, which was
approved by the U.S. Federal Reserve Board in November, may also
deter potential buyers, particularly a private-equity firm or
non-bank suitor, according to Andrew Jeffrey, a San Francisco-
based analyst with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc.  While the deal allowed Green Dot to issue prepaid cards
backed by its own deposits and to reduce costs, it also places
an additional regulatory barrier to a takeover, Jeffrey said.  “It has a bank charter, and that’s just messy,” he said
in a phone interview. “Any non-bank company would effectively
have to get regulatory approval to buy it, and why anybody would
want to be a bank these days is beyond me.”  ‘Big Network’  Even so, if a buyer didn’t want the bank assets, it could
spin them off as part of the transaction, said Michael Lippert,
a  fund manager  at New York-based Baron Capital Inc., which
oversees about $17 billion.  “It’s not a deal breaker,” he said in a phone interview.
“There’s certainly some assets they have that could be
interesting to somebody else. They have this big network of
retailers, in particular, and places where you can reload the
card, and that’s probably valuable to someone else who wants to
be in the prepaid business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net . 