-- Gulf Keystone Sued by Ex-Soldier on Iraq Oil-Field Rights
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-10-15T13:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/gulf-keystone-sued-by-ex-soldier-over-iraq-oil-field-rights-1-.html
Rex Wempen said he introduced  Gulf
Keystone Petroleum Ltd. (GKP)  Chairman Todd Kozel to opportunities in
 Iraq ’s Kurdistan region in 2005, and used his contacts to help
win oil-exploration rights from the government. Now the company
owes him for his effort, he claimed at a trial today.  The lawsuit by the former captain in the U.S. Army Special
Forces in London may be worth about $1.6 billion, according to a
person familiar with the matter who wasn’t authorized to speak
about it publicly.  The company’s shares have soared from 13 pence to about 200
pence since its August 2009 discovery in the Shaikan region of
as much as 15 billion barrels of oil, enough to supply the U.S.
for two years. The trial casts a shadow over Gulf Keystone’s
plans to exploit what Peel Hunt LLP analyst Werner Riding
described as a “world class” oil find.  “There’s been a lot of speculation about the company being
bid for, but that’s unlikely while the court case is here,”
Riding said in a telephone interview. “Until the uncertainty is
removed entirely, it’s a deterrent to an acquisition.”  Mark Antelme, a spokesman for Hamilton, Bermuda-based Gulf
Keystone, declined to comment in an e-mail. Shares of the
company rose 1 percent to 206 pence in  London  trading today at
2:40 p.m.  A collaboration agreement signed by Kozel’s Texas Keystone
Inc. company gives Wempen a 30 percent share of the Shaikan
concession, Wempen said in court documents. Wempen said in the
lawsuit that Gulf Keystone was an agent of Texas Keystone.  ‘Dishonestly Assisted’  Gulf Keystone “dishonestly assisted Texas Keystone’s
breach of fiduciary duty,” to prevent his company from getting
its share, Wempen said in the documents.  Wempen, who served in the U.S. Special Forces in Korea and
 Japan  in the 1990s and is a founding member of the U.S.-
Kurdistan Business Council, trekked across the Turkish border
into Iraq during the second Gulf war, and stayed there for more
than a year, eventually meeting the Kurdish prime minister at
his palace, his lawyer, Simon Picken, said at the start of the
trial today.  Wempen’s work in dangerous conditions “resulted in the
vast riches now enjoyed by Gulf and indeed, by Mr. Kozel
personally,” Picken said. Wempen’s firm Excalibur Ventures LLC
“was then cut out of the deal completely.”  Kurdistan Rush  Some of the world’s biggest oil companies have begun work
in Kurdistan, a semi-autonomous region in northern Iraq, which
the government has said may hold 45 billion barrels of crude,
about a third of Iraq’s total.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , Chevron Corp.
and Total SA have all committed to the region in the past year.  Tony Hayward , the former chief executive officer of BP Plc,
who left following the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill, took the
helm of the region’s biggest producer, Genel Energy Plc, last
year. The $2.1 billion all-share purchase of the company valued
its 356 million barrels of reserves at $5.90 a barrel.  Gulf Keystone said Wempen’s Excalibur wasn’t authorized by
the Kurdish government to participate in any deal and
additionally broke its side of the bargain by failing to
contribute to exploration costs.  Kozel and his brother Robert, an executive at Texas
Keystone, aren’t credible witnesses, Picken told the judge
today. Kozel “reconstructed” a letter to the Kurdish
government two years after it was supposed to have been written
to support his case that Gulf Keystone had asked whether
Excalibur could be included in the deal.  Kozel Brothers  While the letter was presented as evidence in pre-trial
hearings, Kozel later admitted he probably didn’t send it,
Picken said.  “The Wempens are truthful people,” Picken told the court.
The same conclusion “can’t be safely reached about the Kozel
brothers.”  Gulf Keystone prompted takeover speculation in March when
it announced share payouts totaling 26 million pounds for
employees in the event it was sold.  Gulf Keystone said last month that it lost $31.4 million in
the first half of the year as it built production facilities for
the Kurdistan oil discoveries. It plans to move from the
Alternative Investment Market to the main list of London Stock
Exchange Group Plc.  The trial is scheduled to last 12 weeks and Kozel, Wempen
and Gulf Keystone Chief Executive Officer John Gerstenlauer are
set to testify. Wempen’s lawyers will question Kozel’s
“opaquely structured and incompletely disclosed” holdings in
the company he co-founded, according to court filings.  The case is: Excalibur Ventures LLC v. Texas Keystone Inc.
& Ors,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division , Commercial
Court, 10-1517.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  