-- Libor Rate Conspiracy Seen in Home-Loan Borrowers’ Suit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-10-15T20:50:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/libor-rate-conspiracy-seen-in-home-loan-borrowers-suit.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of
America Corp.  and 10 other lenders were sued by a group of U.S.
homeowners who claim the banks conspired to manipulate the
benchmark Libor rate, driving up the cost of  mortgage loans .  Libor, or the London interbank offered rate, is based on a
British Bankers’ Association-commissioned daily survey that asks
lenders to estimate how much it would cost to borrow money from
each other for various periods in 10 different currencies. The
figures are used to set interest rates for more than
$300 trillion of securities and loans worldwide.  The homeowners’ complaint, filed in federal court in
Manhattan earlier this month, is one of several class action, or
group, lawsuits seeking to hold banks responsible for the
alleged manipulation of the rate used as a borrowing-cost
benchmark.  “Defendants’ anticompetitive conduct had severe adverse
consequences on the plaintiffs by increasing the  interest rate 
charged on their LIBOR-based loans and causing them to suffer
financial losses,” the borrowers said in the Oct. 4 complaint.  The lenders’ alleged conspiracy from January 2000 to
February 2009 violated U.S. racketeering laws, the homeowners
said.  Bank of America and co-defendants  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Royal
Bank of Scotland  are among the banks under investigation for
Libor-rate tampering. Another named defendant in the lawsuit,
 Barclays Plc. (BARC) , was fined $450 million in June by U.S. and U.K.
regulators for submitting false answers to the daily canvass.
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  and Chairman Marcus Agius
resigned in the aftermath.  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup,
 Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan Chase and
Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, declined to comment on the homeowners’
allegations.  Preparing Charges  U.S. prosecutors are preparing to file charges later this
year against traders from several banks involved in a bid-
rigging scheme to manipulate Libor rates, a person familiar with
the case, who asked not to be identified because the matter is
confidential, told  Bloomberg News  in July.  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and Connecticut
Attorney General George Jepsen are jointly investigating the
allegations and have issued subpoenas to New York-based JPMorgan
Chase as well as to USB AG and Deutsche Bank AG.  The latter two lenders are also defendants in the borrower
lawsuit, which seeks unspecified money damages together with an
order permanently barring the bank from rigging the Libor rate.  Consolidated Cases  U.S. District Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald in Manhattan is
presiding over consolidated pre-trial proceedings in almost 30
lawsuits alleging antitrust violations related to Libor. The
borrowers’ case hasn’t yet been assigned to a judge.  The plaintiffs, all from  Alabama , are represented by
Mobile, Alabama, lawyer John W. Sharbrough and Mill Neck, New
York attorney Stephen Stim. While they are suing in part for
alleged violations of New York state law, they seek to represent
residents of all 50 U.S. states.  The case is Adams v.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , 12-cv-07461,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  