-- Microsoft to Begin Rolling Out Xbox Music Service
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-10-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/microsoft-to-begin-rolling-out-xbox-music-service.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Internet music
service will roll out starting tomorrow on Xbox and next week on
computers with Windows 8, as the company looks to compete
against  Pandora Media Inc. (P)  and Spotify Ltd.  Xbox Music will offer free, unlimited advertising-supported
streaming of music on computers and tablets. For those seeking
access on the Xbox gaming console and mobile phones, the service
costs $9.99 a month, said Scott Porter, principal program
manager for the product.  Customers who prefer to buy music, rather than just playing
it online, can also purchase albums and tracks. By offering
music streaming and downloads, the world’s largest software
maker is betting it can attract users from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes
and Amazon.com Inc.’s music store, as well as listeners of
streaming services such as Pandora, Spotify, Rdio Inc. and
Rhapsody International Inc.  “This gives Microsoft a strong music story which they’ve
lacked for years and extends the Xbox brand to media and
entertainment,” said Michael Gartenberg, an analyst at market
research firm Gartner Inc. “A free streaming service with ads
every 15 or 20 minutes is pretty compelling. This is will put a
lot of pressure on the Spotify’s, the Rdio’s and Pandora’s.”  The application will also be available on new handsets with
Microsoft’s Windows Phone 8 software, coming in November. Mobile
apps for Apple’s iOS and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android are planned for
next year, Porter said.  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft had already added
television and sports content to its Xbox Live service in a bid
to push into the consumer entertainment market.  Single Platform  Xbox Music features touch controls and the tile design of
Windows 8. It will also be the default music service on the
operating system. Customers who want to use the streaming
service without ads on PCs and tablets will also have to pay
$9.99 a month.  When a customer creates a playlist or downloads music on
one device such as a PC, the account is automatically updated if
they access it using a phone, tablet or Xbox because the data is
stored in the cloud. That’s an advance over Xbox Music’s
predecessor the Zune music service, Porter said.  Initially Xbox Music will lack some of the social features
seen in a service like Spotify, which tells users what music
their friends are listening to. While those will come next year,
Porter said, Microsoft is also mulling how to make those
features useful without “spamming” your friends with constant
notifications about a user’s listening choices.  The service will have a worldwide catalog of 30 million
tracks, and in the U.S. there will be 18 million tracks 
available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  