-- India’s Inflation Accelerates to 10-Month High
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-10-15T11:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/india-inflation-quickens-to-10-month-high-curbing-rate-cut-room.html
Indian inflation accelerated to a
10-month high in September after an increase in diesel prices,
limiting room for an interest-rate cut to revive the economy.  The  wholesale-price index  rose 7.81 percent from a year
earlier, after climbing 7.55 percent in August, the Commerce
Ministry said in a statement in New Delhi today. The median of
35 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was 7.7 percent.  India ’s central bank has refrained from joining countries
such as  Brazil  and  South Korea  in extending rate cuts, saying
inflation exceeds a comfort zone of about 5 percent. At the same
time, the nation’s finance officials are seeking lower borrowing
costs to back an economic-policy revamp that included a rise in
subsidized diesel tariffs last month to pare a fiscal deficit.  “Increasing diesel prices was a necessary step to control
the  budget deficit  and, therefore, curb inflation in the medium
to long term,” said Suvodeep Rakshit, an economist at Kotak
Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “It will cause a rise in inflation
in the short term and the Reserve Bank will wait until inflation
comes down into its comfort zone.”  The policy overhaul since Sept. 13, which snapped months of
political gridlock over how to boost the economy, also included
measures to open industries such as retailing to more foreign
investment, helping the rupee to rebound from a record low.  Rupee, Stocks  The currency, which has strengthened 2.4 percent in the
past month, slid 0.4 percent to 53.015 per dollar at the close
in Mumbai. The BSE India Sensitive Index of stocks rose 0.2
percent, while the yield on the 10-year bonds due June 2022 was
little changed at 8.17 percent.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao announces
his next rate decision on Oct. 30. He has said the outlook for
the budget shortfall will help to shape monetary policy.  Subbarao left the  repurchase rate  unchanged at 8 percent
for a third meeting last month, while reducing banks’ reserve
ratios to bolster lending. The central bank cut borrowing costs
in April from 8.5 percent for the first time since 2009.  Inflation may slow to within the Reserve Bank’s comfort
level by March next year as the rupee rises and the fiscal
shortfall shrinks, Economic Affairs Secretary Arvind Mayaram
said in an interview yesterday. Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said on Oct. 12 that he plans reform measures for
 capital markets , insurance, banking and infrastructure.  Fuel prices advanced 11.9 percent in September from a year
earlier, today’s report showed. Non-food manufactured goods
prices, a measure of  core inflation , rose 5.57 percent compared
with 5.58 percent in August, calculations by Bloomberg showed.  India faces the fastest inflation and the widest budget gap
among major  emerging markets . Economic growth may weaken to a
decade-low of 4.9 percent in 2012 after investment stalled, the
 International Monetary Fund  said last week.  Higher freight and raw material costs prompted Hyundai
Motor India Ltd. to announce proposed price increases this month.  While the room for rate cuts is limited, the central bank
may continue to ease liquidity, said N.R. Bhanumurthy, an
economist at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy
in  New Delhi .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  