-- Indian Ore Plunging With Eagle Bulk Seen at Record Low
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-10-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/indian-ore-plunging-with-eagle-bulk-seen-at-record-low-freight.html
The biggest slump in Indian  iron-ore 
exports on record is driving rates for ships hauling the cargoes
to the lowest since at least 2005, extending losses for  Eagle
Bulk Shipping Inc. (EGLE)  and other owners.  Supramaxes, each hauling enough ore to make about 33,000
metric tons of steel, will earn an average of $8,500 a day in
2013, 15 percent less than this year, based on forward freight
agreements traded by brokers and used to bet on shipping costs.
That’s 13 percent less than New York-based Eagle Bulk, the
largest U.S. owner of the ships, says it needs to break even.  Goa,  India ’s top exporting state, banned all production
last month to curb illegal mining, and shipments from the
world’s fourth-largest supplier will decline 36 percent this
year, according to  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the biggest shipbroker.
Supramaxes take about 40 percent of the nation’s cargo, Drewry
Maritime Research estimates. That’s curbing demand at a time
when owners are contending with record fleet capacity and ore
prices are slumping because of weaker global consumption.  “The loss of Indian iron ore is eating away at Supramax
demand,” said Marc Pauchet, an analyst at ACM Shipping Group
Plc, a London-based shipbroker founded three decades ago and now
with offices in 10 cities from  New York  to  Shanghai . “In this
environment, every lost cargo hurts.”  Commodity Cargoes  Iron ore traded at the Chinese port of Tianjin, a global
benchmark, fell 18 percent to $113 a ton this year, according to
The Steel Index Ltd., a unit of McGraw-Hill Cos. Prices are
dropping as  China ’s growth slows and analysts are getting more
bearish, with HSBC Holdings Plc cutting its forecast for next
year by 27 percent to $105 on Oct. 12.  Supramax rates averaged $9,949 since the start of this
year, the lowest since at least 2005, according to the London-
based  Baltic Exchange , whose data are used as benchmarks for
about 75 percent of all commodity cargoes. Earnings slumped 34
percent to $8,032 since January began. Its ships need an average
of $9,807 to cover costs including crew and financing, Eagle
Bulk said in a presentation to investors Aug. 9.  The company operates a fleet of 45 Supramaxes, 45 percent
of which compete in the single-voyage market and the rest on
longer-term charters. Eagle Bulk will report net losses of $4.84
a share for this year and $4.49 for 2013, based on the median of
seven  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Its shares
dropped 17 percent to $3.12 this year and will reach $1.83 in 12
months, the average of five forecasts shows.  Domestic Steelmakers  Goa, which ships 70 percent of India’s iron ore, banned all
production after a government panel said illegal mining had cost
the western state about $6.6 billion over six years. The curbs
may last at least a year, implying as much as 50 million tons of
lost exports, Standard Bank Plc estimates. The ban has a higher
impact now because most shipments are done from September to May
to avoid the monsoon, the bank says.  India already imposed a 30 percent tax on exports at the
end of 2011, in part to ensure supply for domestic steelmakers.
Shipments will plunge to 50.2 million tons this year from 78.5
million tons in 2011, the steepest decline since at least 1994,
London-based Clarkson estimates. They will drop to 48.3 million
tons in 2013, according to the shipbroker. India ranks behind
 Australia ,  Brazil  and  South Africa  in seaborne iron ore.  Supply from India may exceed those forecasts. The mines
ministry wants to lower export taxes on lower-grade ore to help
clear stockpiles, former Mines Secretary Vishwapati Trivedi said
in an interview last month. The iron content is too low for most
of the country’s own mills and is preferred by Chinese
steelmakers, according to Drewry. About 30 percent of India’s
output in 2009 and 2010 was below 62 percent iron content, a
global benchmark, the Indian Bureau of Mines estimates.  Freight Derivatives  The slump in Indian shipments may be offset by more cargoes
from producers including  Indonesia , Australia and South Africa,
said Philippe Van Den Abeele, the London-based managing director
of Castalia Fund Management (U.K.) Ltd., an adviser to a hedge
fund trading freight derivatives.  While iron ore is the second-largest seaborne cargo after
crude oil, Supramaxes can also carry about 50 other products,
making them less reliant on the trade, said Steve Rodley, a
managing partner at London-based Global Maritime Investments
Group, which operates ships and trades freight derivatives. They
can also call at more ports than larger Capesizes, said Erik Folkeson, an analyst at Swedbank First Securities in Oslo.  Supramax Capacity  Some of those alternative cargoes are also dropping. Global
trade in grains will decline 14 percent next year after drought
and heat waves curbed yields in the U.S. and  Europe , the U.S.
Department of Agriculture estimates. Fewer grain shipments and
less iron ore from India are the biggest contributors to
weakening demand for Supramaxes, said Jeffrey Landsberg,
managing director of Commodore Research & Consulting, a New
York-based adviser to ship owners.  The Supramax fleet is expanding more quickly than demand
because too many vessels were ordered when rates rose as high as
$72,729 in 2007. Seaborne trade in dry-bulk commodities will
advance 4 percent this year as Supramax capacity gains 12
percent, Clarkson estimates. Outstanding orders at shipyards
equal 17 percent of the existing fleet, according to data from
 IHS Inc. (IHS) , an Englewood, Colorado-based research company.  The glut extends across most of the merchant-shipping
industry. The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of costs across four
vessel classes, plunged 42 percent since the start of January.
Rates for very large crude carriers, each hauling 2 million
barrels of oil, slid 60 percent this year, Clarkson data show.  Nippon Yusen  Eagle Bulk and its banks agreed in June to postpone  debt 
repayments until 2015, when $1.13 billion will be due, with the
lenders receiving share warrants. Jonathan Morgan, an external
spokesman for Eagle Bulk from Perry Street Communications in New
York, declined to comment.  The company has the highest proportion of Supramaxes in its
fleet of any listed firm, Clarkson data show. While state-
controlled China Cosco Holdings Co. is the biggest Supramax
owner, the ships account for 14 percent of its capacity. Nippon
Yusen K.K., based in  Tokyo , and China Shipping Group are the
second- and third-largest Supramax owners.  Global demand for seaborne iron ore this year will rise 4.8
percent, the least since 2001, to 1.1 billion tons, Clarkson
says. Figures due Oct. 18 may show the economy in China, which
buys 65 percent of all cargoes, had a seventh quarterly slowdown
in the third quarter. China will expand 7.7 percent this year,
the slowest since 1999, the median of 27 economist estimates
compiled by Bloomberg showed. The  International Monetary Fund 
cut forecasts for global growth for 2012 and 2013 last week.  Indian Shipments  Iron ore traded at Tianjin is extending last year’s 19
percent decline, according to The Steel Index. Chinese steel
demand will probably expand 2.5 percent this year and 3.1
percent in 2013, from 6.2 percent in 2011, the Brussels-based
World Steel Association said in a report Oct. 11.  India’s shipments to China averaged 3.99 million tons a
month this year compared with 6.1 million tons in 2011 and as
much as 8.95 million tons in 2009, Chinese customs data show.  “India’s iron-ore exports have gone from being a major
trade for Supramaxes to almost nothing,” said Rahul Sharan, a
senior research analyst at Drewry in Delhi. “This is a trend
that’s going to continue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  