-- Inflation Approaching 8% Seen Eroding Real Yield: India Credit
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2012-10-15T06:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/inflation-approaching-8-seen-eroding-real-yield-india-credit.html
India’s inflation-adjusted bond
yields, already the lowest among the largest  emerging markets ,
deteriorated further after this year’s worst price report.  The so-called  real yield  on India’s 10-year sovereign note
has slid 103 basis points from this year’s high in August to 36
basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Similar
gauges were at 425 basis points in  Brazil , 158 in  China  and 137
in  Russia . India’s benchmark price index jumped 7.81 percent
last month from a year earlier, the most in 2012, a government
report showed today. The median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey  was for a 7.7 percent increase.  “Inflation is a bugbear and none of us is expecting it to
come down soon,” Killol Pandya, the Mumbai-based head of fixed-
income investments at the local unit of Daiwa Asset Management
Co., said in an interview on Oct. 11. “Our track record with
inflation has been poor. In the short term, bond returns will be
eroded and people already invested will take a bit of a knock.”  India’s banks, the biggest buyers of sovereign debt, cut
 holdings  last month by the most this year as the central bank
refrained from reducing the highest  interest rates  among major
Asian economies, citing price pressures. The  Reserve Bank  of
India’s policy focus is on tempering  inflation , which remains
above its comfort level, Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said Oct. 4.
Borrowing costs need to come down to revive growth, Finance
Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in an interview on Oct.
12, saying his reform push may create room for rate reductions.  The pace of price increases in India, where the  World Bank 
says about two-thirds of the people live on less than $2 a day,
has averaged 7.5 percent so far in 2012, the most among the so-
called BRIC economies. Average inflation in 2012 was 5.3 percent
in Brazil, 2.8 percent in China and 4.6 percent in Russia.  ‘Unusually Uncertain’  In July, the RBI raised its forecast for gains in the
wholesale-price index in the year ending March 31 to 7 percent
from 6.5 percent. The monetary authority has held its  repurchase
rate  at 8 percent since April, when the benchmark was cut by 50
percent in the only reduction since 2009. Subbarao boosted the
repo rate by a record 375 basis points through 2010 and 2011.  Emerging-market central banks from Brazil to China and
South Korea reduced borrowing costs in the second half of this
year to shield their economies from the impact of  Europe ’s debt
crisis. It’s too early for India to follow suit because of its
inflation, the  International Monetary Fund  said in its World
Economic Outlook report released on Oct. 9.  “The outlook for India is unusually uncertain,” the
Washington-based lender said. “ Monetary policy  should stay on
hold until a sustained decrease in inflation materializes.”  Swaps, Bonds  Interest-rate swaps , derivative contracts used to guard
against fluctuations in funding costs, signal investors pared
bets for rate reductions since June. The cost of locking in one-
year borrowing costs has risen 13 basis points from a 14-month
low of 7.48 percent on June 12, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The yield on benchmark 10-year  government bonds  has climbed
13 basis points from a 14-month low of 8.04 percent in June,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The  extra amount  investors seek
to hold the notes instead of U.S. Treasuries has widened 20
basis points, or 0.2 percentage point, from a six-month low of
631 touched last month.  Bank  deposits  in  India  are growing at near the slowest pace
in at least five years as inflation erodes returns. Savings rose
13.8 percent in September, according to the latest central bank
data. The pace of increases touched 13.1 in April, the least
since at least 2007.  ‘Savings Rate Collapsing’  “Keeping money in a bank or in a bond is running against
inflation,” Harihar Krishnamoorthy, Mumbai-based treasurer at
the Indian unit of FirstRand Ltd., South Africa’s second-biggest
financial services provider, said in an interview on Oct. 11.
“That’s probably the reason the savings rate is collapsing.”  Rupee-denominated sovereign debt returned 8.5 percent so
far in 2012, trailing the 20 percent earned by Brazilian notes
and the 9.2 percent gain on Russian securities, according
tindexes compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co. The rupee declined 0.6
percent to 53.1325 a dollar today.  The rupee advanced 4.7 percent in the second half of this
year, Asia’s best exchange-rate performance, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Crude oil in  New York  has retreated more
than 9 percent from a four-month high of $100.42 per barrel on
Sept. 14. India imports almost 80 percent of the oil it uses.  The government’s policy changes in the past month will
boost the rupee further and help slow inflation to between 5
percent and 5.5 percent by March, India’s Economic Affairs
Secretary Arvind Mayaram spoke in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in  Tokyo  yesterday.  ‘Greater Comfort’  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has reduced energy subsidies,
cut taxes on overseas borrowing by companies and allowed more
foreign investment in industries including retailing and
airlines since mid-September.  “There’s greater comfort on the inflation front now
because of stable commodity prices and gains in the rupee that
have been beyond expectation,” J. Moses Harding, executive vice
president at IndusInd Bank Ltd. in Mumbai said in a telephone
interview on Oct. 12.  Bond risk for government-controlled  State Bank  of India, a
proxy for the sovereign, remained higher this year as inflation
pressures persisted. The cost of insuring the lender’s debt for
five years against non-payment using credit-default swaps has
averaged 331 basis points so far in 2012, compared with 209 a
year earlier, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
privately negotiated markets.  Diesel Prices  The government’s move last month to raise state-controlled
prices of diesel for the first time in more than a year will
further fuel inflation, according to Crisil Ltd., the local unit
of  Standard & Poor’s . Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government
boosted diesel tariffs by about 14 percent to reduce expenditure
on fuel subsidies that have fanned a  budget deficit .  “The increase in diesel prices will push up inflation in
the short run,”  Dharmakirti Joshi , Mumbai-based chief economist
at Crisil, said in an interview on Oct. 12. “I expect the
October reading for the wholesale-price index to be 8 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  