-- Infosys CFO Given $3 Billion Challenge: Corporate India
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-10-15T11:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/infosys-cfo-given-3-billion-challenge-corporate-india.html
V. Balakrishnan, who manages the
biggest cash pile among  India ’s software developers as finance
chief of  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , has a new challenge: boost revenue
fourfold at three business units in five years as growth slows.  Balakrishnan on Oct. 31 will relinquish his post as  chief
financial officer  of India’s second-largest exporter of computer
services to head the company’s biggest software product, its
business process outsourcing unit and its Indian division.
Balakrishnan plans to boost sales at each of the three units to
$1 billion in the next three to five years, he said.  Infosys, which counts the maker of Johnny Walker whiskey
and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  as clients, is seeking new customers as
competition from rivals including  Cognizant Technology Solutions
Corp. (CTSH)  intensifies amid slowing sales in its biggest markets. The
experience in running business units may help Balakrishnan, 48,
prepare to lead the company when Chief Executive Officer S.D. Shibulal retires, according to A.S. Thiyaga Rajan, senior
managing director at Aquarius Investment Advisors Pte.  “There are opportunities to grow in these three
businesses, so there’s a greater focus there,” Balakrishnan
said in an interview, declining to comment on speculation of him
succeeding Shibulal. “Creating more billion-dollar businesses
within the company will accelerate growth for us.”  Infosys  plunged  the most in three months on Oct. 12 after a
reduction in its sales-growth forecast spurred some analysts to
downgrade their recommendations. The shares dropped 1.2 percent
to 2,365.6 rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai, the lowest
since Sept. 5.  Forecast Cut  Bangalore-based Infosys reduced its forecast for this
fiscal year’s revenue to 395.8 billion rupees ($7.5 billion)
from a July estimate of 403.6 billion rupees, as Shibulal said
the business environment continues to be “challenging.”  Net income  rose 24 percent to 23.7 billion rupees in the
three months ended September, Infosys reported on Oct. 12. That
compares with the 23.8 billion-rupee median of 41 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue increased 22 percent to
98.58 billion rupees, compared with the 99.3 billion-rupee
median of 43 analysts’  estimates .  Balakrishnan’s move is the latest in the realignment of
roles for the company’s top executives as Infosys attempts to
boost sales. To revive growth that is forecast to lag behind the
industry, Infosys has reorganized its business and shifted focus
from outsourcing to software products and consulting divisions.  Rajiv Bansal, a vice president who reports to Balakrishnan,
will take over as CFO, according to a statement from the
company.  Banking Software  “They’re probably trying to give him exposure at different
levels,” said Singapore-based Thiyaga Rajan, who manages $400
million in Indian assets at Aquarius. “Probably preparing him
for something big.”  Balakrishnan will head the unit that produces Finacle, a
banking software used by companies including Rabobank Groep of
the Netherlands and  Denmark ’s Nykredit Group. The software has
approximately 70 percent market share in India, Balakrishnan
said in an interview in February. Revenue from the 15-year-old
 product  rose 7.8 percent to $318.75 million in the year ended
March 31, from $295.6 million the year before.  He will also run Infosys BPO Ltd., of which he is already
the chairman, as well as the company’s Indian business. The
three units generated a combined revenue of 38.4 billion rupees
in the year ended March 31, versus total sales of 337.3 billion
rupees at the company.  “I think for most Indian IT services business, sustainable
growth is contingent on turning their smaller business into a
billion dollar size,” said Ankur Rudra, an analyst at Ambit
Capital Pvt. in Mumbai. “I think it’s achievable. Whether they
will do it or not is a different question all together.”  Product Sales  The company aims to raise the contribution of products,
platforms and solutions to a third of sales in five years from
5.8 percent. Infosys will have to make acquisitions to meet that
goal, Shibulal said in an interview on Aug. 29.  Infosys is facing challenge from larger and smaller rivals
in its attempts to expand. Cognizant’s revenue in the quarter
ended June 30 rose 21 percent from a year earlier to $1.8
billion, surpassing Infosys’s sales for the first time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tata Consultancy
Services Ltd. (TCS)  was the largest Indian IT-services provider, with
revenue of $2.75 billion.  Infosys, which has a cash hoard of $4 billion, on Sept. 10
said it had agreed to buy Swiss management consulting company
Lodestone Holding AG for 330 million Swiss francs ($353
million), adding more than 750 consultants and 200 customers in
industries including manufacturing, automotive and life
sciences.  ‘Past Glory’  “Infosys is clearly trying to revamp its business model,
change its strategy,” said Walter Rossini, who manages $200
million in Indian equities at Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA in Milan.
“So far we have not seen significant results. Maybe a
management shuffle is in the cards.”  Infosys rotates important managers to give them broader
experience, a practice that is also common at larger rival
 Accenture Plc (ACN) , said Rod Bourgeois, an analyst in  New York  at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  T.V. Mohandas Pai in 2006 had stepped down as chief
financial officer at Infosys after 10 years to make way for
Balakrishnan. Pai announced his resignation as director and head
of human resources development after 17 years at the company on
April 15, 2011. He was expected to take over the role of chief
operating officer, the Economic Times reported.  Changes began at Infosys last year when Shibulal, who
helped found Infosys in 1981, replaced S. Goplalakrishnan as
chief executive officer. Chairman N.R. Narayana Murthy retired
that year. The company also reorganized itself based on four
industry verticals, and shifted focus from application
development and maintenance to software products, platforms and
consulting.  “I think Infosys seems to be trying different things at
different levels to get back to its past glory,” Aquarius’
Thiyaga Rajan said. “It was once the industry bellwether.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  