-- Intellectual Ventures, Renault: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-10-15T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/intellectual-ventures-renault-intellectual-property.html
Intellectual Ventures ’ patent
portfolio is the target of a new project begun by a Berkeley,
California-based patent analytics firm.  IP Checkups Inc.  is setting up “Case IV Thicket,” a
crowd-funded crowd-sourced project aimed at revealing
Intellectual Ventures’ patent portfolio and make it freely
available to the public. According to IP Checkups Managing
Director  Matthew Rappaport , Bellevue, Washington-based IV has at
least 40,000 patents, with the ownership hidden in a thicket of
more than 1,200 shell companies.  Funding for the new venture is to be raised through the
 Indiegogo  crowd-funding mechanism, and the database that will be
developed is to be freely available to the public, Rappaport
said. “We think we can put together the puzzle and identify the
shell companies and the patents they own,” he said.  Closely held IV, which was started in 2000 by former
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chief Technology Officer  Nathan Myhrvold , has
filed a number of patent infringement suits in the past two
years. Among the companies IV has sued are Hynix Semiconductor
Inc.,  Altera Corp. (ALTR) , Motorola Mobility LLC,  Canon Inc. (7751)  and Sendai
 Nikon Corp. (7731)   “Patent data is supposed to be public,” Rappaport said in
an Oct. 12 telephone interview. The system he is setting up will
be “illuminating the  land mines ” that companies might
encounter when they develop a product and are then sued for
patent infringement by IV or one of its shell companies.  Rappaport said he had contacted IV to ask if he could
publish the company’s patent portfolio, and got no response to a
follow-up e-mail he sent.  Initial searches for IV’s patents will be conducted of
patent databases of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, the
 European Patent Office  and the World  Intellectual Property 
Organization. Rappaport said. Databases of the various state
secretaries of state will also be done, in efforts to unmask the
alleged shell companies, he said.  The goal of the project is to have the database of IV’s
patents completed by Memorial Day, Rappaport said.  Co-founder of IP Checkups with Matthew Rappaport is his
father, Irving Rappaport, former associate general counsel for
intellectual property and licensing at Apple Inc. Rappaport is
co-inventor with Kevin Rivette of the Aureka patent-mapping
software.  Rivette , now managing partner of 3LP Advisors LLC, a  Palo
Alto , California-based IP strategy and transaction firm, said
projects like IP Checkups’ are not new. “I’ve heard about this
concept since ’05.”  “You’re actually talking about a lot of work,” he said in
a telephone interview Oct. 12. “The really interesting part is
that people want to make this formulaic, when it isn’t.”  The Case IV Thicket project is to be introduced today at
the  annual meeting  of the Licensing Executives Society in
Toronto, an organization of technology-transfer professionals.  No one from Intellectual Ventures was available to comment
on the IP Checkups project, according to Michelle Craig, a
spokeswoman.  ‘Speak For Yourself’ App Patent-Infringement Suit Settled  A patent suit involving an app aimed at helping children
with developmental difficulties communicate through  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPad has settled, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Semantic Compaction Systems Inc. of Pittsburgh sued Speak
for Yourself LLC for patent infringement in March, claiming the
company’s Speak for Yourself app, distributed through Apple’s
 App Store , infringed patents 5,748,177 and 5,920,303. The
patents covered a system for redefining keys on a keyboard to
provide access to higher level keyboards, according to patent
data.  Apple  removed the app  from the App Store in June.  The dispute was sent out for mediation and, according to
the case file, the dispute was settled Oct. 10. Terms of the
settlement were not disclosed and the court retains the
jurisdiction to enforce the terms of the settlement agreement.  The case is Semantic Compaction Systems Inc., v. Speak for
Yourself LLC, 2:12-cv-00248-GLL, U.S. District Court, Western
District of  Pennsylvania  (Pittsburgh).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Apple Licenses 68-Year-Old Swiss Clock Design From SBB Railway  Apple Inc., which is fighting patent battles with
competitors around the globe, agreed to license a 68-year-old
design for a clock for Swiss railway stations to use in its
iPhone and iPad devices.  State-owned railway operator SBB said last month that while
Apple had infringed rights to the motif, it was “proud that
Apple took an SBB design.” Apple will now be allowed to use the
look of the station clock, designed in 1944 and featuring a
“striking red second hand in the shape of a railway guard’s
signaling disc,” on its mobile devices, SBB said in a statement
Friday. The companies agreed not to disclose the fee.  “It is a design icon that has obviously lost none of its
appeal in the digital age,” SBB said in an Oct. 12 statement.
“It symbolizes the innovation and reliability that are key
qualities attributed to both SBB and  Switzerland  as a whole.”  SBB has allowed companies such as watchmaker Mondaine Watch
Ltd. to use the design under a license. Apple has been embroiled
in patent battles with smartphone maker Samsung Electronics Co.
in courts across four continents after Apple accused the South
Korean company of copying its devices last year.  Officials at Apple, which included the design in the
updated version of its iOS mobile operating system in September,
didn’t immediately return phone calls for comment on the
licensing agreement. Last month, London-based Apple spokesman
Adam Howorth said the disputed design appears only on the iPad
and isn’t on the iPhone.  Google Antitrust Suit Said to Be Pushed by FTC Investigators  U.S. Federal Trade Commission investigators are circulating
an internal draft memo that recommends suing  Google Inc. (GOOG)  for
abusing its dominance of Internet search in violation of
antitrust laws, according to three people familiar with the
matter.  The more than 100-page memo has been distributed to the
agency’s five commissioners, who will decide whether to sue, two
of the people said. A majority of commissioners, including FTC
Chairman  Jon Leibowitz , have expressed concerns internally about
Google’s practices, and are deciding how to proceed, two of the
people said.  The three people spoke on condition of anonymity because
they weren’t authorized to speak publicly about the
investigation.  Four of the five commissioners believe a case should be
brought, Reuters reported Oct. 12.  The memo sums up the findings of the FTC’s 19-month
investigation into whether  Mountain View , California-based
Google’s business practices stifle competition. Google and its
rivals are starting to meet individually with commissioners to
make their cases before a final vote on whether to pursue the
lawsuit, two of the people said.  FTC spokesman  Peter Kaplan  declined to comment on the draft
memo. Adam Kovacevich, a Google spokesman, didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Labor, Greens Divided Over Changes to New Zealand Copyright Law  In the debate over changes to New Zealand’s copyright law,
a member of the  Labor Party  has said changes proposed by a Green
Party member could cost jobs and be too hard on business, the
New Zealand Herald  reported .  The proposed amendment, sponsored by MP Gareth Hughes,
broadened exceptions for parody and satire, according to the
newspaper.  Hughes told the Herald that present copyright law in his
country doesn’t cover copyright and satire, which should be
allowed as “legitimate public commentary.”  Labor Party parliament member Shane Jones said permitting
parodies could lead to the destruction of brands and jobs,
calling it “economic vandalism,” according to the Herald.  New Virus Masks as Enforcement Mechanism, TorrentFreak Warns  A virus purporting to be a warning that a computer was used
for illegally downloading copyright-protected content is
circulating under the guise of the defunct Stop Online Piracy
Act, the TorrentFreak website  reported .  Although SOPA, as the bill was known, was defeated earlier
this year, the virus warns users of infected computers that
their Internet Protocol address is on a blacklist of known
infringers, and that the computer can be unlocked only after
paying a $200 fee, according to the anti-copyright website
TorrentFreak.  Accompanying the virus is a warning that if payment isn’t
made within 72 hours, all data on the computer will be deleted,
TorrentFreak reported.  Multiple sites  can be found on the Internet that offer a
program to remove the “Stop Online Piracy Automatic Protection
System” virus, TorrentFreak reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Renault Prepared Statements in Anticipation of Employee Suicides  Renault SA (RNO)  prepared statements to be issued if any of the
three employees falsely accused of industrial espionage
committed suicide, France 24  reported .  The documents surfaced a year after the botched
investigation in which the employees were accused and fired, and
Renault eventually issued a public apology, according to France
24.  The automaker prepared two different statements, one to use
if one of the three employees’ suicide attempt was successful,
and the other if it was botched and the employee lived, France
24 reported.  A Renault spokeswoman told France24 that preparation of the
press releases was simply part of the company’s crisis-
management strategy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 