-- Lithuania Opposition Parties Grab Lead Over Kubilius in Vote
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2012-10-15T16:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/lithuania-opposition-parties-grab-lead-over-kubilius-in-vote-1-.html
Lithuania’s opposition  Labor Party 
and Social Democrats lead Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius’s
party after a first round of voting in parliamentary elections.  The Labor Party, led by Russian-born entrepreneur Viktor Uspaskich, won 20 percent, or 17 seats in the new parliament,
based on counting from 1,985 of 2,017 districts, the election
commission said today on its website. Former Finance Minister
Algirdas Butkevicius’s Social Democrats garnered 18.5 percent of
the vote, or 16 seats, while Kubilius’s Homeland Union-Christian
Democrats placed third with 14.9 percent, or 12 seats. Four
other parties also qualified for parliament.  Opposition parties lured voters with pledges to boost wages
and trim sales levies to oust Kubilius, whose austerity measures
intensified the Baltic nation’s deepest recession in 2009 and
2010. Yield on  Lithuania ’s dollar bond due 2022 fell to 3.4263
percent today, the lowest since its January debut.  “Voters have called for a different kind of government
than the one we’ve had,” Uspaskich told a news conference today
in Vilnius.  Nuclear Referendum  A Cabinet will be formed after Oct. 28, when a second round
of balloting will take place in 68 of the single-mandate
districts that comprise 71 of the 141-seat parliament. Three
seats were decided in the first round as candidates there won
more than 50 percent of the votes.  Turnout was about 52 percent, according to the election
commission. In a non-binding referendum also held yesterday,
62.7 percent of voters rejected a plan to build a nuclear power
plant with  Japan ’s  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  compared with 34.1 percent in
favor, results from 95 percent of districts showed. The number
of ballots cast on the issue appeared to be sufficient to
validate the referendum, commission head Zenonas Vaigauskas said
on national television today.  Kubilius’s government, the first to serve a full term since
independence was regained 22 years ago, has been trying to avoid
the fate of others in  Europe , which lost power in a wave of
protests against austerity measures that contributed to
recessions in economies from  Romania  to  Spain  instead of
tackling the euro area’s debt crisis as envisaged.  The Cabinet cut wages and raised taxes equivalent to 12
percent of economic output in 2009 and 2010 as gross domestic
product plunged by almost a quarter.  Deficit Target  Kubilius is seeking to narrow this year’s budget deficit to
close to the European Union’s cap of 3 percent of gross domestic
product from 9.4 percent in 2009, plans that have helped push
borrowing costs to record lows.  The cost of insuring state debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps was 149 basis points
today, compared with 845 points in February 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The new coalition will probably consist of three parties as
there is no clear leader at present, Uspaskich said, though
Kubilius predicted the current ruling parties would gain the
upper hand in the next round of voting.  “I’m convinced that after the second round, our tried and
tested coalition of the Liberal Movement and Homeland Union will
have every possibility to become the core of a new ruling
coalition,” he told reporters today. The Homeland Union has 36
candidates advancing to run-offs in the single-mandate
districts, the most of any party, with 19 of those ahead of
their opponents.  Negotiations  Social Democrat leader Butkevicius said that he also
expects his party’s position to be stronger after the second
round. The  Social Democrats  have started negotiations with other
current opposition parties to form a majority coalition if
policy positions can be harmonized, he said.  “We have to stimulate Lithuania’s economy, create jobs and
output, but not by spending borrowed money.” he told reporters
today. “We need to boost revenues where possible, and focus on
the areas of the economy where wages are especially low. There
won’t be any sudden tax reforms.”  The Liberal Movement, part of the current coalition, was
one of four other parties that exceeded the 5 percent barrier to
parliamentary representation, getting 8.4 percent support, or 7
seats. The Way of Courage, founded in March, had 7.9 percent, or
7 seats, impeached ex-President Rolandas Paksas’s Order &
Justice got 7.4 percent for 6 seats, and the Lithuanian Polish
Election Action won 5.9 percent of votes, or 5 seats, according
to the latest results.  Joblessness, Exodus  While Lithuania’s GDP will advance 2.5 percent this year
and 3 percent in 2013, according to the  Finance Ministry , the
recession fueled joblessness and sparked an exodus of workers.  After falling from a peak of 18.3 percent in the second
quarter of 2010, unemployment remains above 13 percent, driving
emigration to countries such as Norway and the U.K.  Lithuania’s population dropped below 3 million for the
first time in April, compared with 3.7 million in 1990. About
53,900 Lithuanians left the country in 2011, while 15,700
returned, the statistics office said in March.  Spending cuts and tax increases since 2008 have also pushed
inequality to the highest level in the EU, with the proportion
of people at risk of poverty surging to the biggest among the
bloc’s 27 members, according to Eurostat.  Wage Increases  The Labor Party says it will raise the minimum wage to
1,509 litai ($563) a month from 850 litai and reduce the value-
added tax on basic food stuffs. The Social Democrats, who have
advocated euro adoption a year later than Kubilius’s 2014 goal,
have pledged to create jobs and adjust income-tax rates to
benefit those who earn least.  These plans contradict promises by both parties to maintain
control of fiscal affairs, Kubilius has said. President Dalia Grybauskaite, a former EU Budget Commissioner who must name
Lithuania’s new premier after the elections, has criticized
spending pledges by some parties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  