-- Liverpool Owners Take Red Sox Route and Stay at Anfield Stadium
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-10-15T11:16:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/liverpool-owners-take-red-sox-route-and-stay-at-anfield-stadium.html
Two years after being bought by the
Boston Red Sox owners, English soccer team Liverpool today said
it plans to redevelop its Anfield stadium rather than build a
new facility.  The decision is similar to the one that kept the Red Sox at
Fenway Park after its ownership, led by John W. Henry, in 2005
ended years of discussions by announcing the baseball team would
remain in its facility. Liverpool said as long ago as 2003 that
it planned to leave the ground that has been its home since
1892.  “I think the process and the progress we have made in
those two years is actually phenomenal, really, in the
timescales for such a major proposition as an expansion of
Anfield or a new stadium,” the 18-time English soccer
champion’s managing director Ian Ayre said in an interview
published on the team’s website.  “That doesn’t detract from the 10 years that people have
had to wait, but I think it puts into perspective the hard work
that’s gone to reach the decision today,” he added.  Fenway Sports Group took control of Liverpool in October
2010 after paying off bank debts owed by former U.S. owners Tom Hicks and George Gillett. Liverpool announced earlier this year
that it wrote off almost 50 million pounds ($80 million) in
costs related to moving to a new stadium, including
architectural designs for a 70,000-seat arena made of glass and
steel that was proposed by Hicks and Gillett.  Liverpool didn’t say how much the stadium refurbishment
would cost. The Daily Telegraph today said the capacity of the
45,000-seat arena will be increased to about 60,000 in a 157
million-pound project.  Community’s Needs  Liverpool had previously ruled out enlarging Anfield,
citing difficulties in getting planning consent. The stadium is
located amid a maze of row houses in one of the city’s poorest
neighborhoods.  “I know a proposition of staying at Anfield has been
looked at before, but fundamentally the difference is that for
the first time ever all of the relevant parties are coming
together for a common initiative, and that common initiative is
not for the needs of the football club but actually the needs of
the community,” Ayre said.  It’s unclear when building work will start, said Ayre, who
added that the club needs the assistance of the local council to
ensure it can purchase land and property adjacent to the
stadium.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  