-- Japan Said to Plan 200 Billion Yen Rescue of Renesas
-- B y   D a v e   M c C o m b s
-- 2012-10-15T09:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/japan-said-to-plan-200-billion-yen-rescue-of-renesas.html
Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723) , the
world’s largest microcontroller maker, rose the most in three
weeks in  Tokyo  trading after two people familiar with the matter
said it may be acquired for 200 billion yen ($2.5 billion).  The chip supplier to companies including Apple Inc. and
Toyota Motor Corp.  climbed  14 percent, the biggest gain since
Sept. 24, to 302 yen, as of the close of trading in Tokyo.
 Innovation Network Corp. of Japan , a state-backed fund, may be
joined by private companies to take over Renesas as early as
next month, the two people said Oct. 13, asking not to be
identified because the discussions are private.  Renesas has rebounded 48 percent after dropping to a  record
low  of 204 yen on May 29, boosted by funding from shareholders
and reports that it may be acquired. The chipmaker has recorded
cumulative losses of 472 billion yen in the seven years through
March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, hurt by a
slowdown in global chip demand.  Renesas isn’t the source of information on the reported
acquisition, Yoichi Kobayashi, a spokesman for Renesas, said by
telephone today.  Innovation Network will inject 150 billion yen in return
for two-thirds of Renesas’s shares, and a group of about 10
companies will invest about 50 billion yen in total, the Nikkei
newspaper said Oct. 13.  Renesas, projecting a 156 billion yen  net loss  this fiscal
year, has cut 7,500 jobs, or about 17 percent of its workforce,
to reduce costs. It may also close or sell plants as demand
declines for its system LSI chips, used for functions including
processing images for televisions.  Toyota, Panasonic Corp., Nissan Motor Co. and  Denso Corp. (6902) 
are among those involved with Innovation Network’s possible bid,
according to one of the people familiar with the talks.  Joichi Tachikawa, a Toyota spokesman, today declined to
comment on the reported acquisition of Renesas, saying it is
based on speculation.  Renesas held a 27 percent share of the global
microcontroller market last year, making it the world’s largest
supplier of the devices used in automobiles and televisions.  The company in its current form was established in 2010
through the merger of money-losing chipmakers NEC Electronics
Corp. and Renesas Technology Corp., a venture between  Hitachi
Ltd. (6501)  and Mitsubishi Electric.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave McCombs in Tokyo at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  