-- Judge Tosses Key Claims in Lehman Executive Class Action
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-10-15T23:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/judge-tosses-key-claims-in-lehman-executive-class-action.html
A federal judge dismissed some key
claims in a class action lawsuit against former officers of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., including claims based on
repurchase agreements, known as Repo 105, as well as claims
based on overvalued real estate.  The ruling by U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan in  Manhattan 
mostly accords with an earlier decision. The California
plaintiffs, seven public entities and an insurance company, can
proceed with limited claims against some former executives
including ex-Chairman Richard Fuld, according to an opinion
filed by Kaplan in U.S. District Court today.  Fuld, 66, was chief executive officer of New York-based
Lehman, once the fourth-largest U.S. investment bank, before its
2008 bankruptcy. In August 2011, he agreed to settle a different
investor lawsuit using a $90 million payment from the defunct
firm’s insurers. Those investors, like these in the ongoing
suit, blamed Lehman officers and directors for losses on Lehman
securities.  A bankruptcy examiner said Lehman foundered because of too
much debt, which it tried to hide from investors, and risky real
estate investments.  Patricia Hynes, a lawyer for Fuld, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on Kaplan’s opinion.  Now out of bankruptcy and paying creditors by installments,
Lehman continues to sell assets to try to raise its planned
payments by 2016 or so of 18 cents on the dollar.  Key Aspects  The California entities purchased Lehman securities from
Oct. 25, 2004, through March 31, 2008, and accused management of
misleading investors about key aspects of the company’s
business, according to the opinion.  Kaplan found that there was sufficient evidence for the
lawsuit to stand only for a few specific instances of
misrepresentations. Those included a Dec. 13, 2007, annual
report from Lehman and a Nov. 6, 2007, executive committee
meeting.  “The examiner’s report concluded that a trier of fact
could find that Repo 105 transactions were used to create a
materially misleading picture of Lehman’s financial condition
beginning in late 2007,” Kaplan said in the ruling.  Fuld will also have to face allegations that he
fraudulently gifted a multimillion-dollar Jupiter Island,
 Florida , residence to his wife, Kathleen Fuld, for $100 in
November 2008, according to the opinion.  “The allegation that the Fulds at the time of the transfer
believed that they would incur debts beyond their ability to pay
would permit proof of the obvious,” Kaplan said.  Joseph Cotchett, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment.  The bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  