-- KFC Rules in Peru as Nation Is Bastion of U.S. Fast Food
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-10-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/kfc-rules-in-peru-as-nation-is-bastion-of-u-s-fast-food.html
There are more U.S. fast-food
restaurants in  China  than any other emerging market, which isn’t
much of a shocker. The surprise is the country with the greatest
concentration of the eateries:  Peru .  A nation so well-known for its cuisine that it exports its
own restaurants to other countries, Peru has a burgeoning food
culture and hosts Latin America’s most popular culinary
festival. Hungry residents of Peru’s populated areas have to
travel, on average, just 0.66 mile (1.1 kilometers) to find a
U.S. fast-food joint, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  This is all good news for fast-food companies, which are
increasingly counting on Latin America for growth after thriving
in China.  “We’re starting to see the emergence of Brazil and South
America being a hotbed for American restaurant franchises to go
and open up,” said Darren Tristano, executive vice president at
food industry consultant Technomic Inc. in  Chicago . “South
America is kind of becoming the next window. Now that Asia has
already started, I think South America is really going to be
where the growth is.”  The first U.S. chain opened in Peru in 1981 and the result
is evident. Eight fast-food counters line the walls of the
Jockey Plaza mall in Lima, half of them Peruvian brands and the
other half U.S.  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) ’s Kentucky Fried Chicken, the
largest U.S. fast-food chain in Peru, and Burger King are doing
a brisk trade, as is Bembos, Peru’s biggest burger chain.  Keep Kids Happy  Juan Mallqui, 42, buys fast food a couple of times a month,
and though he prefers the Peruvian brands, he’ll often go to KFC
or  Burger King (BKW)  to keep his two small children happy.  “I don’t normally eat this kind of food, only when we come
here to the mall,” he said.  After three decades blighted by dictatorships, terrorism
and hyperinflation, Peru is reaping gains from free-market
policies adopted in the 1990s that fueled the fastest economic
growth in Latin America in the past decade. Economic stability
is spurring a consumer boom that has gathered steam during the
last decade.  Average wages in Lima, the capital, have risen 56 percent
since 2006 while  unemployment  fell to 6.7 percent in August from
8.4 percent six years earlier, according to Peru’s national
statistics agency.  Peru -- a country almost as big as  Alaska , encompassing
Andes mountains and the Amazon jungle -- has a population of 29
million, with about three quarters of Peruvians living in
cities. The growing purchasing power of the urban population is
leading to the expansion of the retail and restaurant industries
and an influx of foreign brands.  Thriving Cities  Peruvians now spend more time shopping and eating at a
growing number of malls and new shopping districts, increasing
demand for fast food. That market grew 15 percent last year,
according to data from the Peruvian Chamber of Franchises. U.S.
chains such as KFC,  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and Burger King Worldwide
Inc. first moved into Peru in the 1980s and 1990s and have since
branched out beyond  Lima  to the other thriving cities.  U.S. chains have cemented their domination of the industry
in the past decade and today have 60 percent of the market.
McDonald’s, based in Oak Brook,  Illinois , and New York-based
Burger King led the expansion in sales last year, followed by
Bembos. In more-developed markets such as Brazil and  Mexico ,
local brands account for 92 percent and 70 percent of sales
respectively, according to the chamber.  More Experience  “Foreign brands have much more experience and they have a
structure and operating capacity that brands in Peru haven’t
been able to develop,” said Diego Herrera, president of the
Lima-based chamber. “They’re brands that have studied their
marketing, their customers, their processes almost to
perfection. They come here and advance very quickly, filling
gaps at a sort of pace that Peruvian businesses can’t match.”  Peruvians are admirers of American culture and open to
foreign influences, said Herrera, the owner of  Osaka , a
Peruvian-Japanese fusion restaurant chain with franchises across
Latin America. Still, there are signs the rise of Peruvian
gastronomy is starting to dent U.S. domination of the fast-food
industry.  The economic stability and social peace of the past decade
has been accompanied by the renewed appreciation for Peruvian
culture, and above all its cuisine, which is a mix of Andean,
Amazonian, European, African and Asian influences and
ingredients. Gaston Acurio, co-founder of Astrid y Gaston
restaurant, is the most successful exponent of Peruvian cuisine,
having developed seven franchises and exported them to 11
countries.  The boom is evidenced by the number of new restaurants,
cooking schools, books, films and gastronomic fairs around the
country. The Peruvian Gastronomy Association drew half a million
visitors to its annual fair in Lima last month, 45 percent more
than last year.  Love of Food  Despite their love of food, Peruvians have kept rein on
their weight. Peru’s increase in body-mass index since the first
U.S. fast-food eatery opened there ranks at 30, among the best
in emerging countries, data compiled by Bloomberg shows. The
Dominican Republic has gained the most.  Yum’s KFC has the biggest exposure to global emerging-
consumer markets among U.S. fast-food chains, with half of its
stores in those countries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Latin America is an important and growing part of our
business,” Christopher Fuller, a Yum spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement.  McDonald’s has 18 percent of its locations in emerging-
consumer markets and Burger King 12 percent, the data show.  ‘Dining Experience’  Burger King has almost 1,300 Latin American restaurants
generating about $2 billion in sales and expects that to double
in the next four to five years, said Jose Costa, vice president
of marketing and supply chain for Latin America and the
Caribbean. The growing middle class in  Brazil ,  Argentina ,
Colombia and Peru view fast-food differently than their North
American counterparts.  “It’s more of a destination, a special location; it’s a
dining experience, versus a North American market where 75
percent of the business is drive-through,” he said by telephone
from Miami. “So it’s capturing the American dream for the
middle class in Latin America.”  Local entrepreneurs are also tapping into foreign interest
in Peruvian cuisine to develop new fast-food concepts. Peruvian
outlets increased sales by 26 percent last year, compared with
15 percent for foreign brands, according to the chamber. The
restaurant industry as a whole grew 9.4 percent last year,
according to the statistics agency.  Bembos, the fastest-growing local brand, was established in
the late 1980s. Last year, it was acquired by Intercorp Peru
Ltd., a finance and retail holding built by Peruvian billionaire
Carlos Rodriguez Pastor. The group in May took over  Chinawok ,
another well-established fast-food business.  “The market is going to become more favorable for Peruvian
brands, as long as they are sustained by a solid corporate
structure,” Herrera said. “This is only the beginning.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brecher at 
 jbrecher4@bloomberg.net  