-- N.J. Democrats Seek to Bypass Christie on Minimum Wage
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-10-15T20:25:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/n-j-democrats-seek-to-bypass-christie-on-minimum-wage.html
Democrats who control the New Jersey
Senate are looking to circumvent Governor  Chris Christie  to get
a minimum-wage increase passed by taking the question directly
to voters.  A measure approved today on a 7-6 vote by the Senate’s
budget panel seeks a constitutional amendment that would raise
the state’s minimum wage to $8.25 an hour from $7.25 beginning
in 2014 and tie future increases to the U.S. Consumer  Price
Index .  “Governor Christie simply did not agree with us on this
issue, so we took him out of the equation,” said Senate
President Steve Sweeney, a Democrat from West Deptford. “The
governor and I have worked together on several important issues,
but on this fundamental issue, he’s out of touch with the needs
of working-class  New Jerseyans .”  Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, a Democrat from East
Orange, is sponsoring a bill that would accomplish the same
goals as Sweeney’s resolution through legislation instead of an
amendment.  “It’s the right thing to do,” Oliver said of a higher
 minimum wage . “It’s why I continue to want to see the Assembly-
approved bill sent to the governor so we can see what he decides
and determine the next step.”  Fighting Vetoes  Democrats, who control both houses of the legislature, made
the wage increase a priority this year along with legalizing
same-sex marriage and increasing income taxes for millionaires.
Christie vetoed both of those measures. Sweeney wants his
amendment on the ballot in November 2013, when the governor
would face re-election should he seek a second term.  The committee vote today moves the measure to the full
Senate for debate.  Christie, a Republican, has said that while he would
consider a one-time increase in the minimum wage, he opposes a
provision requiring annual adjustments for inflation.  Speaking Oct. 2 in Raritan Township, Christie said that
locking the wage and increases into the constitution would leave
the state unable to make adjustments if the moves hurt
businesses or jobs.  “It just doesn’t make sense,” Christie, 50, told
reporters. “I’ve said over and over again that I will consider
a minimum-wage increase as a part of a larger package to bring
economic growth to this state.”  New Jersey  has struggled to shake off the effects of the
U.S. economic downturn, as tax collections in the fiscal first
quarter fell 4 percent below the targets set in the budget
Christie signed in June, according to Treasury Department
figures. The state’s  jobless  rate reached a 35-year high of 9.9
percent in August.  New Jersey’s minimum wage last increased in 2009, from
$7.15, to match a $7.25 federal threshold. An $8.25 rate would
put it ahead of neighboring  New York ,  Pennsylvania  and  Delaware ,
which all match the $7.25 federal standard, and would equal
 Connecticut ’s, according to the U.S. Labor Department’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  