-- N.Z. Dollar Drops on Slowing Inflation; Aussie Holds Gain
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-10-16T05:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/n-z-dollar-drops-after-data-shows-slowest-inflation-since-1999.html
New Zealand ’s dollar fell against
all of its major peers after data showed inflation slowed to the
weakest pace in more than 12 years, boosting speculation that
the country’s Reserve Bank will cut  interest rates .  The Australian dollar maintained a gain from yesterday even
after minutes of the nation’s central bank meeting this month
showed officials saw scope to lower borrowing costs further to
bolster an economy facing slower growth. The South Pacific
nations’ currencies were supported as Asian stocks advanced,
boosting demand for higher-yielding assets.  “The market is going to think that the RBNZ will cut”
because data showed slower growth in inflation, said  Andrew Salter , a currency strategist in Sydney at  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  “That means that the currency should
be weaker.”  The  New Zealand dollar , nicknamed the kiwi, dropped 0.3
percent to 81.59 U.S. cents as of 4:40 p.m. in Sydney. It was
unchanged at 64.38 yen from yesterday’s close. Australian’s
dollar fetched $1.0267 from $1.0253, after gaining 0.2 percent
yesterday. The so-called Aussie rose 0.5 percent to 81.01 yen.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares gained 0.8 percent.  New Zealand  consumer prices  rose 0.8 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, the statistics office said in
Wellington today. That was the lowest level since the fourth
quarter of 1999.  Swap Rate  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, declined seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 2.51 percent. It earlier touched 2.5
percent, the lowest level since June 7. Swaps are often used to
speculate on changes in interest rates.  The RBNZ has kept the  official cash rate  at a record low of
2.5 percent since March 2011 and last month signaled no change
in borrowing costs until late 2013.  The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  today released records of its
meeting on Oct. 2 when policy makers cut the overnight cash rate
target by a quarter point to 3.25 percent.  “There was an increased likelihood of growth over the
coming year being somewhat weaker than earlier forecast,”
according to the minutes that explained the board’s decision to
cut interest rates. “The board judged that it was appropriate
for the stance of monetary policy to be a little more
accommodative.”  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see an about 84 percent chance the RBA will slash the key rate
by another quarter point to 3 percent at a meeting on Nov. 6.  “A lot of rate cuts have been priced into the markets
already,” said Greg Gibbs, a senior currency strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Singapore . “There is still
a good chance that the RBA will cut rates next month, but they
are more likely to wait and see how the economy will respond to
the policy easing rather than continuing to cut rates from that
point onwards.”  Yields on Australian’s benchmark 10-year bonds were little
changed at 3.03 percent. They touched 2.91 percent on Oct. 3,
the lowest since July 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  