-- Nat Geo Plans Special on Record Jump From Edge of Space
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-10-15T19:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/nat-geo-plans-special-on-record-jump-from-edge-of-space.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s National Geographic
Channel will air a special program on Felix Baumgartner’s world-
record jump yesterday that broke the sound barrier and set a new
mark for live YouTube viewing.  “Space Dive,” a co-production of National Geographic, the
BBC and Red Bull Media House, will air in November, combining
footage from the jump with behind-the-scenes training video for
the privately financed effort, Washington-based Nat Geo said
today in an e-mailed statement.  Baumgartner’s jump, called the  Red Bull Stratos Mission ,
was planned for four years and set records for altitude,
longest free fall and speed. The feat drew  8 million  live
streams, a new high for  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube. National
Geographic cameras from the ground and specially designed
cameras by  Red Bull  captured the ascent from Roswell,  New
Mexico , the jump and the descent.  “While the project itself is obviously groundbreaking, our
exclusive inside access adds unique insight and perspective into
this four-year journey, and is sure to thrill our viewers,”
Michael Cascio, executive vice president of programming at
National Geographic Channel, said in the statement. The channel
is 70 percent owned by News Corp., with a 30 percent stake held
by a unit of the National Geographic society.  Baumgartner, 43, was carried up to the edge of space in a
capsule lifted by a 55-story helium balloon. He jumped from
120,000 feet, or about 24 miles, and free-fell for 119,846 feet,
reaching 833.9 miles per hour, or Mach 1.24, according to the
statement.  “Space Dive” aims to show how a team of medical, science
and engineering experts designed and built the equipment needed
to get Baumgartner up and back safely, according to the National
Geographic statement.  Before Baumgartner, two men died in attempts to break
records held by U.S. Colonel Joe Kittinger since August 1960.
Kittinger, 83, was one of the experts who trained Baumgartner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  