-- Netanyahu Opens Israel Re-Election Bid With Speech
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-10-16T07:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/netanyahu-opens-israel-re-election-bid-with-speech.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , facing re-election in three months, opened his
campaign by citing increased global efforts to stop Iran from
developing a nuclear weapon as evidence of his growing clout.  Israel ’s parliament, the Knesset, passed a law early today
by a vote of 100-0 that dissolves the government and sets new
elections for Jan. 22. Netanyahu said on Oct. 9 he wants to hold
elections a year ahead of schedule after failing to agree with
his coalition partners on cuts in the proposed 2013 budget.  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said on Oct. 13 the
decision to move elections forward in response to the budget
impasse was “a good move” that will benefit the economy.  The Israeli polling comes amid accelerating inflation as
the government raises taxes and oil prices increase. Tensions
with  Iran  are also growing in the midst of concern about the
nature of the Islamic Republic’s atomic work.  Netanyahu said in a speech to the Knesset in  Jerusalem  that
his government had “returned security” to Israel through steps
such as the deployment of the Iron Dome missile defense system,
the construction of a security fence along the Egyptian border
and mobilizing the international community against Iran’s
suspected nuclear weapons program.  Global Agenda  “We raised the Iranian threat to the center of the global
agenda, and unprecedented sanctions were imposed” on the
Persian Gulf nation, Netanyahu said. “We have a capability that
we didn’t have before to act against Iran and its proxies.”  The U.S. and Israel will begin their largest joint air and
missile defense exercise by the end of this month, Navy
Lieutenant Commander Wendy Snyder, a Pentagon spokeswoman, said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The exercise follows open
disagreement between Netanyahu and President  Barack Obama  over
the timing of any military strikes to stop the Iranian nuclear
program that Iran says is for civilian purposes.  The European Union approved extra curbs on trade with Iran
yesterday, including on its finance, energy and transport
industries. Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Ramin Mehmanparast today called the sanctions “illogical and
inhumane” and repeated his government’s readiness for
“constructive” talks.  Shaul Mofaz, leader of the opposition Kadima party,
responded from the Knesset podium that Netanyahu has left Israel
a “weaker, more isolated and fearful” country and called him
“the most cynical prime minister in the history of modern
Zionism.”  Likud Support  Two surveys published last week in the newspapers Haaretz
and Ma’ariv found that Netanyahu’s Likud party is favored to win
re-election. The polls had Likud taking 29 Knesset seats, making
it the largest parliamentary faction, and together with other
parties in the current ruling coalition gaining more than the 60
seats needed to form a new government.  Inflation accelerated to 2.1 percent in the 12 months
through September from 1.9 percent the previous month, the
Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of Statistics  said yesterday.
Today, the bureau will release its third estimate for second-
quarter gross domestic product.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  