-- New Jersey Case May Upend Home Loan Discrimination Rules
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y ,   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-10-15T14:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/new-jersey-case-may-upend-home-loan-discrimination-rules.html
The remaining structures form a
patchwork amid vacant lots, where once there were row upon row
of houses built for  New Jersey ’s returning World War II veterans
and their growing families.  Some boarded-up homes have red signs tacked on the front
saying “Owned by Mount Holly Township -- NO TRESPASSING.”
Others have signs, in the style of a real estate agent’s, that
say “This House NOT For Sale.”  A fight between the government and residents of what
remains of Mount Holly Gardens has now reached the U.S. Supreme
Court, which may decide in the next several weeks whether to
take up a case with nationwide implications for the housing
industry. The court deferred action on the case today.  Civil rights advocates are battling the industry over
whether the 1968 Fair Housing Act authorizes discrimination
suits even without allegations of intentional bias. Lower courts
have said suits can claim that a government policy or company
lending practice has a discriminatory effect, known as
“disparate impact,” even if that wasn’t the intent.  Mount Holly has been buying up what it says had become a
blighted, high-crime neighborhood, with an eye toward
redevelopment. The opponents say the effort has hurt black and
Hispanic residents, devastating the township’s only
predominantly minority neighborhood.  Bank Settlement  Although the Mount Holly case involves municipal action,
the U.S. Justice Department also enforces the disparate impact
doctrine against financial institutions. It cost big banks
dearly.  In December 2011,  Bank of America  Corp. settled a case of
alleged discrimination against black and Hispanic borrowers for
$335 million. And in July,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  paid $125 million
to wrap up claims it steered minority borrowers into expensive
subprime loans.  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  paid $21 million in May over
similar claims.  The statute lacks the language supporting this doctrine,
which Congress affirmatively included in other laws, so it
shouldn’t apply, said Jeffrey Naimon, a banking attorney with
BuckleySandler LLP. The courts have disagreed.  The position of civil rights groups has been, “‘It’s
always been in the law, so get over it,’” Naimon said in an
interview. “But that is not right.”  Undermining Intent  “Allowing disparate impact claims under the FHA would
render illegal many legitimate governmental and private
activities designed to promote the general welfare of the
community,” Mount Holly argued in its appeal to the  Supreme
Court .  Kenneth Goldman, director of litigation for South Jersey
Legal Services, which represents a group challenging the town’s
actions, said the redevelopment plan undermines the intent of
the Fair Housing Act.  The case started in 2002, when the township began offering
owners $30,000 to $50,000 per home, he said. Out of more than
250 attached dwellings, about 70 remain and 35 families still
reside in the Holly Gardens area, Goldman said.  Even though it has racked up $18 million in debt, the
township has yet to build new homes and work has been halted
because of a lack of funds.  “We’re not saying you can’t redevelop a minority
community,” he said. “But they’ve got to at least justify
their actions and go through an analysis or process to make sure
that they are doing it in a way that is going to have the least
amount of disruptive impact on the community.”  Mostly Vacant  Originally built in groups of eight townhomes with alleys
in the back, one or two homes now remain in each section. The
still-standing red-brick homes have black or tan patches on the
sides where they had been attached to neighboring dwellings.  Most appear vacant. A few have children’s toys and
tricycles in front. Screen doors swayed in the October wind last
week. There are holes in the ground, sidewalks are ripped up in
front of many homes and the streets are pocked with potholes.
Empty Budweiser bottles and a finished half-pint of Hennessy are
strewn in one lot and stray pieces of litter can be seen at
times in gutters. The Gardens is ringed by two schools and
several churches.  Antonio Delgado, 47, who works as a welder in nearby
Philadelphia, said he’s lived in the Gardens for 13 years. He
said the township’s argument that the neighborhood was a
blighted haven for crime is overstated. He said he pays $575 a
month for the two-bedroom rowhouse he rents on Martin Avenue,
which the landlord sold to the town a couple of years ago. His
wife has begun looking for work, and they’re hoping to move out.  Sent Them Away  “They should have just fixed everything up and let the
township rent all the buildings out,” said Delgado, who said he
splits his time between the house and staying with family
members in the city during the work week.  “They took all the elderly people out of here and sent
them to God knows where,” he said, as he showed what he called
a poor patching job after crews demolished five or six attached
houses. In addition to working-class people, poor residents and
the elderly, he said two shelters for the homeless were
displaced.  “They were pushing out the people who lived here so this
could be more productive money-wise for them,” Delgado said.
“You tell me, how’s a husband and wife who’ve lived here for 35
years and paid off their mortgage going to pay off another one
they can’t even afford? When they can’t pay, what are they going
to do? They kick ‘em out.”  New Regulator  The disparate impact doctrine has drawn additional
attention over the past year because a new regulator, the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, adopted it. The CFPB,
created by the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory overhaul of 2010,
handles enforcement of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the law
barring discrimination in all types of lending.  As a result, it will now be supervising the roughly 110
largest banks in the country -- those with more than $10 billion
in assets -- for compliance with federal  consumer protection
laws . It will also supervise many nonbank financial firms, such
as mortgage originators.  “They did it to rattle sabers and make a point,” said
Richard Riese, a senior vice president of the American Bankers
Association’s Center for Regulatory Compliance. “But really
what they did was adopt what was already there.”  However laudable the goal, bank lawyers argue that the
disparate impact doctrine disrupts their ability to calibrate
the risk that a borrower defaults, because any change to the
terms of a loan could have a discriminatory effect.  ‘Gentrification’  “It makes every lender vulnerable to discrimination claims
unless they make every loan to everybody the same way,” Naimon
said. “It puts risk-based pricing, which is the way lending is
supposed to work, very much at risk.”  When the issue is municipal policy, fair lending groups
have argued that cities and towns have sometimes made minority
groups bear the burden -- in the form of fewer lower-income
housing choices -- of their redevelopment policies.  “In many cases, this would be called gentrification,”
said David Berenbaum, chief program officer at the National
Community Reinvestment Coalition.  Mount Holly could have chosen to start with “less
drastic” options, such as more selective demolition, greater
subsidies for relocation, or rehabilitating more units rather
than displacing people, Goldman said. The township’s reliance on
eminent domain -- the threat of using the law to take the
properties -- was a mistake, he said.  “The people believed they didn’t have a choice,” he said.
“So a lot of people sold under the threat of eminent domain for
30, 40 or 50 thousand dollars.”  Meanwhile, the area’s property has become even less
valuable. “Whatever condition the Gardens was in when this
started in 2002, they made it extremely worse by aggressively
acquiring properties and demolishing them while families were
still living there,” he said. “This is probably the textbook
case in how not to do redevelopment,” Goldman said.  The case is Township of Mount Holly v. Mount Holly Gardens
Citizens in Action, 11-1507.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  