-- New Oriental Jumps as Rising Exports Fuel Rally: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-10-15T20:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/new-oriental-jumps-as-rising-exports-fuel-rally-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  in New York rose to a
five-month high, as the fastest growth in money supply since
June last year and better-than-estimated export data boosted
prospects the economy is rebounding.  The Bloomberg  China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. gained 1.1 percent to 94.76
yesterday, the highest level since May 15.  New Oriental
Education & Technology Group (EDU)  Inc. jumped after Oppenheimer & Co.
upgraded the shares and Deutsche Bank AG reinstated the stock’s
buy rating.  American Lorain Corp. (ALN)  surged to a six-month high
after receiving a buyout proposal. Aluminum Corp. of  China 
traded at the widest premium to Hong Kong in four weeks.  M2, China’s broadest measure of money supply, rose at the
quickest pace in 15 months in September, central bank data
issued Oct. 13 showed, signaling the world’s second-largest
economy is stabilizing after slowing the most since 2009 in the
second quarter. Overseas shipments rose 9.9 percent last month
from a year earlier, beating the median economist projection of
5.5 percent, a government report on the same day showed.  “The data definitely are showing improving conditions,
especially monetary conditions are looser than a year ago,”
Audrey Kaplan, the lead manager of the $540 million Federated
InterContinental Fund, said by phone in New York yesterday.
“These should be supportive of stocks. We see China’s slowdown
as moderate, and there are signs that its growth has bottomed.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., gained 0.7 percent to $36.65,
the strongest level since May 7. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
jumped 0.8 percent to 1,440.13, after U.S. retail sales data for
September and Citigroup Inc.’s earnings topped estimates.  ‘Favorable Outlook’  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 0.3 percent yesterday
to a one-week low of 2,098.70. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong climbed 0.3
percent to 10,375.32, the highest level since May 8.  New Oriental, an education company based in Beijing,
climbed 4.4 percent to $17.89 in New York, after surging as much
as 13 percent.  Oppenheimer raised its rating on the company to the
equivalent of buy from market perform, citing a “favorable
outlook” for the company’s pending investigation by U.S.
regulators.  New Oriental filed its  annual report  for the 2012 fiscal
year ended May 31 on Oct. 12 after markets closed, with the
consent of its auditor Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd. The
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has no objection to the
inclusion of New Oriental’s schools into its China-based units,
and the consolidation of its Chinese entity into the listed
company’s financial statements, according to a separate
statement on the same day.  TAL Education Jumps  New Oriental said on July 17 that the SEC had started an
investigation into the company’s consolidation of its units’
financial statements.  Deutsche Bank reinstated its buy  recommendation  on the
stock and  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  maintained an outperform
rating yesterday. Piper Jaffray Cos lifted its target price for
the New Oriental to $27 from $22 while retaining an overweight,
or buy, rating.  Beijing-based  TAL Education Group (XRS)  advanced 4.1 percent to
$8.91, the highest level since Aug. 23, while  Ambow Education
Holding Ltd. (AMBO)  jumped 5.4 percent to $2.75.  ‘Strong’ Start  Home Inns & Hotels Management Inc. (HMIN) , the largest budget
hotel chain operator in China, rallied 2.4 percent to $28.20,
the highest level in seven months. The Shanghai-based company
had a “strong” start to the fourth quarter, Ella Ji, an
analyst at Oppenheimer in New York, said in an e-mailed client
note on Oct. 9.  “Hotels in major tourism cities had 100 percent
occupancy” during the week-long national holiday earlier this
month, Ji wrote.  Chinese consumer prices rose 1.9 percent from a year
earlier in September, a report from the government statistician
showed yesterday. That’s close to the slowest pace in two years.
 Producer prices  fell 3.6 percent, the seventh straight decline.  Aluminum Corp., known as Chalco, climbed 2.7 percent to a
one-month high of $10.98 in New York. The company’s American
depositary receipts, each representing 25 underlying shares,
traded 1.6 percent  above  its Hong Kong shares, the biggest
premium since Sept. 14.  Going Private  American Lorain, a food processing company based in Yantai,
China, jumped 12 percent to $1.39 in New York, the steepest
rally in six months.  Chief Executive Officer and President Si Chen offered to
buy all outstanding shares in the company for $1.60 per share,
American Lorain said yesterday in a statement. The go private
offer from Chen, who currently owns 46.5 percent of the
company’s shares, is a 29 percent premium to the stock’s closing
price on Oct. 12.  Gushan Environmental Energy Ltd. (GU) , a copper and biodiesel
producer based in China’s Fuzhou city, said yesterday that its
shareholders approved a privatization plan first announced Feb.
24. The Fuzhou, China-based company’s ADRs were unchanged at
$1.59.  Citic Securities Co., China’s largest brokerage by market
value, is seeking to raise 5 billion  yuan  ($800 million) to 10
billion yuan for its first private equity fund, President Boming Cheng said at an annual conference of the Chinese Finance
Association in New York on Oct. 14. The money, which is being
raised from Chinese institutions including government agencies,
will be used to help buy stakes in companies involved in merger
and acquisition transactions, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  