-- New Orleans Saints’ Vilma Challenging Suspension Again
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-10-16T00:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/new-orleans-saints-vilma-challenging-suspension-again.html
Jonathan Vilma, the  New Orleans 
Saints player facing a potential full-season National Football
League suspension for his alleged role in a plot to
intentionally injure opponents, asked a U.S. judge to cancel
that punishment.  Vilma, in papers filed today with U.S. District Judge Helen G. Berrigan in New Orleans, argued that NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  is irredeemably biased against him and can’t act as an
impartial arbitrator.  Goodell on Oct. 9 reimposed a full-year punishment for the
Saints linebacker and captain, after that sanction and lesser
bans for three other players were thrown out by arbitrators who
said the commissioner exceeded his authority.  “Goodell engaged in a farcical review, imposed the same
punishment as previously imposed, and continued his abuse of the
process,” the player’s lawyers said in a filing.  The NFL will file its response later this week,  Brian McCarthy , a spokesman for the 32-team league, said in an e-
mailed message. The organization’s headquarters is in  New York .  In a written order issued late today, Berrigan directed the
football league to file its answering papers by noon on Oct. 17
and said she would issue a decision without oral argument from
their lawyers.  Vilma, together with fellow Saint  Will Smith  and former
teammates  Scott Fujita  and Anthony Hargrove, were punished for
allegedly participating in a “bounty” scheme to reward players
for hits that forced opponents out of NFL games.  Eight-Game Ban  Hargrove faced an eight-game ban, while Smith received a
four-game suspension and Fujita a three-game sanction.  Arbitrators in September said Goodell overstepped his
bounds by punishing the players for money they received outside
their contracts, while upholding his ability to enact punishment
for trying to injure opponents.  Goodell re-imposed the full-season ban on Vilma as well as
Smith’s four-game punishment. He trimmed Hargrove’s suspension
by one game to seven and reduced Fujita’s to one.  The National Football League Players Association today
filed papers with Berrigan seeking an order throwing out those
punishments too. That request is also scheduled to be heard on
Nov. 7.  Vilma, who has been injured this season, said he will be
available to play in his team’s scheduled Oct. 21 game against
the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers , according to a report appearing on the
 website  of the Walt Disney Co.-owned ESPN.com.  The case is Vilma v. Goodell, 12-cv-1283, U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  