-- New Jersey Issues First Permit for Medical Marijuana
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-10-15T20:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/new-jersey-issues-first-permit-for-medical-marijuana.html
New Jersey  issued its first permit
to a medical marijuana distributor, and expects it to begin
dispensing by year end, Health Commissioner Mary O’Dowd said.  Montclair’s nonprofit Greenleaf Compassion Center has
satisfied New Jersey’s permitting law, O’Dowd told reporters on
a conference call today. About 320 patients, with such
“debilitating medical conditions” as multiple sclerosis,
muscular dystrophy, inflammatory bowel disease, glaucoma, HIV or
AIDS and terminal cancer, have been registered to get the drug
or are in the process, O’Dowd said. Greenleaf will grow its own
plants in an undisclosed location.  The possession and distribution of marijuana is illegal
under U.S. and state law. In October 2009, President  Barack Obama ’s administration told federal prosecutors not to file
charges against legitimate dispensaries and their patrons.  Seventeen states and Washington, D.C., have approved
medical marijuana laws, according to the  National Conference of
State Legislatures , a bipartisan research group based in Denver.  New Jersey Republican Governor  Chris Christie  had delayed
implementation of the marijuana law signed by his predecessor,
Democrat  Jon Corzine . Christie, 50, a former federal prosecutor
who took office in January 2010, said he supported compassionate
use of the drug, though he had questions about criminal
liability for distributors and users. The U.S.  Justice
Department  last year sent a memo to several states reiterating
Obama’s position and Christie said New Jersey would start
licensing distributors.  Patients who smoke the plant’s dried leaves or inhale it
via nebulizer may find relief from pain, nausea and vomiting.
About 175 physicians have registered with the state to authorize
the drug’s use.  The dispensaries will serve only New Jersey residents who
are certified by registered doctors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  