-- No Drama Obama Needs a Shake-Up in Romney Debate Rematch
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-10-15T11:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/no-drama-obama-needs-a-shake-up-in-romney-debate-rematch.html
President  Barack Obama  needs some
drama.  The candidate known for his “No Drama Obama” persona
created, with his dispassionate first debate performance, a
high-stakes backdrop for tomorrow’s 9 p.m. rematch against
Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  at Hofstra University in
Hempstead, New York.  The doubts raised by the president’s first showing, paired
with tightening polls and a fresh burst of enthusiasm for
Romney, have ignited Democratic concerns that the advantage in
the race is moving to the Republicans. With early voting taking
place in competitive states and the Nov. 6 Election Day just
over 3 weeks away, Obama must go on the offensive, laying out
clear contrasts with Romney and making the kind of personal
connection with voters that helped him win four years ago.  “It’s as important as a Game 7 in the World Series even
though there’s a third debate,” said Chris Lehane, an
unaffiliated Democratic strategist. “The pressure will be on
the president to step to the plate and deliver.”  During prep sessions for the Oct. 3 debate, Obama, 51, was
inconsistent, sometimes on the mark while at other times more
like the languid candidate who showed up to the podium that
night. He and his aides are determined not to let that happen
again, said a person familiar with the sessions who asked for
anonymity to describe them.  Preparing Attack  In sessions at a Williamsburg,  Virginia  resort, they’ve
been preparing the president to challenge Romney when he strays
from his previously held positions and statements, while going
after his record as Massachusetts governor and the former
private equity executive’s experience at the helm of Bain
Capital LLC.  On style, they’re preparing Obama for the town hall format
of the debate, where questions come directly from audience
members. The setting plays to Obama’s strength of appearing more
personable than Romney -- yet he has to work against his
tendencies to act professorial and cerebral.  “The American people should expect to see a much more
energized President Obama making a passionate case for why he is
a better choice for the middle class,” said  Jen Psaki , a
campaign spokeswoman.  Unlike his first debate preparations, when he sprinkled a
campaign event and a visit to the Hoover Dam in between his
rehearsals, the president, save a few walks for fresh air and a
stop at a nearby field office, has spent most of his time behind
closed doors with his team, including Democratic Massachusetts
Senator John Kerry playing the part of Romney. Anita Dunn, an
outside campaign adviser, is playing the part of the moderator,
 CNN  correspondent Candy Crowley.  Romney Rehearsals  Romney, 65, also spent most of yesterday huddling with top
aides, including long-time confidant Bob White and senior
strategist Beth Myers, in a Marriott hotel ballroom near his
Belmont, Massachusetts, home. In recent days he has held dress
rehearsals to become familiar with the town-hall style, with
Republican  Ohio  Senator Rob Portman playing the role of Obama.  For Romney, a strong second debate performance may shift
the narrative of the race from a short-term Republican surge to
a sustained advance -- with Obama in a steady slide.  Romney’s campaign is readying their candidate to refute
expected accusations casting him as someone who has altered his
views for political gain. Aides said yesterday their candidate
will hit back, by continuing his assault against Obama’s
economic policies. Romney will highlight his record of working
with Democrats when he was governor -- a part of his biography
that aides said is less well-known to voters.  Obama’s Record  “The president can change his style. He can change his
tactics. He can’t change his record. And he can’t change his
policies,” senior adviser Ed Gillespie said in an interview
with CNN’s “ State of the Union ” today.  When talking about his own policies, Romney will likely
continue his effort to broaden his message and moderate his tone
to reach undecided voters.  His recast message was highlighted last week, when Romney
told an Iowa editorial board that he wouldn’t pursue anti-
abortion-rights legislation if elected -- a position that
conflicted with his previous pledges, including cutting funding
for Planned Parenthood, an organization that offers abortion
services and provides broader women’s health screenings.  Democratic strategists and outside experts have pointed to
Vice President Joe Biden’s debate tactics as the model for Obama
-- minus the smirks and laughter. The president must balance
showing the passion that was missing in Denver, while not
appearing arrogant or condescending to Romney, they said.  Biden Template  On substance, Biden set a clearer template. When he squared
off Oct. 11 against Wisconsin Representative Paul Ryan, Biden
challenged the Republican vice presidential nominee on his
statements about taxes and  health care . The vice president early
in the 90-minute session raised Romney’s secretly recorded
remarks that 47 percent of Americans are victims dependent on
government. He pressed Ryan on the math behind Romney’s tax
plan, refuting the campaign’s assertion that to pay for a 20
percent across the board tax cut those earning below $200,000
wouldn’t see their taxes go up or popular deductions, including
home mortgages, eliminated.  “Look, folks, use your common sense,” Biden said, looking
directly into the camera, during an exchange about Ryan’s
proposal to overhaul Medicare, the health-care system for older
Americans. “Who do you trust on this?”  Moderate Shift  After spending months painting Romney as a representative
of the ideological extreme wing of the Republican Party, Obama
was caught flat-footed by the former governor’s shift to a more
moderate stance on issues ranging from immigration to taxes.  “No Drama Obama needs dramatic encounters that clarify
distinctions,” said Kathleen Hall Jamieson, a professor of
political communication at the Annenberg School for
Communication at the University of Pennsylvania. “For Obama to
do well, the next debate needs more clash.”  The town-hall format, with Crowley taking pre-screened
questions from audience members, may favor Obama.  “President Obama does well in these town-hall-style
formats, and we expect he will be more aggressive and launch one
attack after another in an attempt to make up for his weak
debate performance in Denver,” said Romney adviser  Eric Fehrnstrom .  Foreign policy, while not a topic in the first debate, may
be in the mix tomorrow. Obama may be forced to confront
questions about security lapses in Libya leading up to the Sept.
11, 2012, attack in Benghazi that killed U.S. Ambassador
Christopher Stevens and three other Americans.  Libya Tragedy  Romney has charged that the administration failed to
provide adequate security in Libya and left the consulate
exposed to a terrorist attack. It’s an assertion that may need
more nuance since Jan Stevens, 77, the father of the former
ambassador, told Bloomberg News Oct. 13 that the tragedy should
not be politicized by the presidential campaign.  “It would really be abhorrent to make this into a campaign
issue,” Stevens said in a telephone interview from his home in
Loomis,  California , as he prepares for a memorial service for
his son this week.  While historical studies have shown that debates don’t
typically alter election outcomes, the first debate in Denver
did help Romney to solidify and motivate the Republican Party
base. Polls have narrowed in several key battleground states
including Ohio, Virginia and  Florida , where the president led
heading into the first debate.  Poll Results  A Bloomberg News Swing Voter poll in Ohio and Virginia
conducted in the days after the debate found that married
mothers, a Republican-leaning group -- gave Romney higher marks
for dealing with the economy and supported the Republican
nominee over Obama 50 percent to 44 percent in Ohio and 50
percent to 45 percent in Virginia.  “I think the wind is at Governor Romney’s back and we’re
clearly on momentum,” Gillespie said on Fox News Sunday. “You
can see it on the trail. You can see it in the data.”  Nationally, a Washington Post/ABC News poll released today
found Obama leading Romney 49 percent to 46 percent, within the
margin of error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points. The
telephone poll of 923 likely voters was conducted Oct. 10-13.
When those voters were asked whether their opinion of the
candidates had changed after the first debate in Denver, 37
percent said they had a better opinion of Romney and 19 percent
said they had a worse opinion of Obama.  Final Seconds  Obama’s advisers have said the president is at his best
when there’s the most at stake, likening him to a basketball
player who needs to make the winning shot with a free-throw in
the final seconds of a game.  Obama, who last year called himself the “underdog” in the
2012 race, may need to feel like everyone is counting him out in
order to rise to the occasion.  “Over the course of his career, he has proven to be Mr.
Clutch,” said Lehane. “Whereas Romney -- aside from last
week’s debate -- is not one who has a record of prime-time
performances beyond being a singles and doubles hitter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Williamsburg, Virginia at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Boston at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  