-- Norodom Sihanouk, Former King of Cambodia, Dies at 89
-- B y   P a u l   T i g h e   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-10-15T03:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/norodom-sihanouk-former-king-of-cambodia-dies-at-89.html
Norodom Sihanouk, the former king of
Cambodia who survived half a century of political maneuvering
that saw his country get sucked into the Vietnam War and endure
the murderous regime of Pol Pot, has died. He was 89.  The  monarch , who abdicated in 1955 and again 49 years
later, died due to a heart condition early this morning in
Beijing where he underwent medical treatment, Cambodian
government spokesman  Phay Siphan  said by phone. Sihanouk, who
maintained houses in the Chinese capital and Pyongyang, suffered
from diabetes and prostate cancer.  Notorious for switching allegiances, Sihanouk oversaw the
transition from an absolute to constitutional monarchy, won
independence from  France , broke off relations with the U.S.
during the Vietnam War and weathered two periods of involvement
with Pol Pot’s Khmer Rouge, the regime blamed for the deaths of
about one in five of the country’s people during the late 1970s.  “He has a mixed legacy,” said David Chandler, a U.S.
diplomat stationed in Cambodia in the 1950s who lectures at
 Monash University  in  Melbourne ,  Australia . “His principles were
self-preservation and terrific patriotism. He made people feel
that they were worthwhile and their country was worthwhile.”  Sihanouk  held numerous posts, including prime minister,
president, and leader of various governments-in-exile before
returning to Phnom Penh in 1991 and being appointed
constitutional monarch in 1993. He was succeeded in 2004 by his
son,  King Norodom Sihamoni .  Boycott Threatened  The Cambodian government will arrange to bring his body
home and hold a ceremony to remember him, Phay Siphan said.  “It’s a big loss for our nation,” he said. “He
understood the people and he put himself on the same ground as
other Cambodians.”  Under Prime Minister Hun Sen, who has been in power since
1985, Cambodia’s economy may expand 6.6 percent this year,
according to the  World Bank . The opposition has threatened to
boycott a nationwide vote next year, alleging that election
officials favor the ruling party.  Norodom Sihanouk was born in Phnom Penh on Oct. 31, 1922,
and educated at the French Lycee in  Vietnam  before continuing
his studies in France. At 18 he was chosen by the French
colonial administration to succeed his grandfather as king.  The young monarch turned against his colonial backers,
campaigning for and winning full independence in November 1953.
He abdicated in 1955 in favor of his father so that he could
enter politics. As Prince Sihanouk, he set up the Sangkum Reastr
Niyum -- the People’s Socialist Community party.  ‘Ended Royalty’  “At that point he basically ended royalty in Cambodia,”
Chandler said. “He just didn’t want to be king; he wanted to be
the boss.”  Caught up in the competing interests of the Soviet Union,
the U.S. and  China , Sihanouk attempted to steer a neutral path
in foreign policy, becoming a founding member of the  Non-Aligned
Movement . In 1965, he broke ties with the U.S. over the Vietnam
War, allowing the North Vietnamese to set up bases in Cambodia.  Ousted in a U.S.-backed coup by his Prime Minister Lon Nol
in 1970, Sihanouk sided with a band of communist resistance
fighters known as the Khmer Rouge. When the group swept to power
five years later, he was appointed nominal head of state.  He resigned in 1976 and was placed under house arrest as
the Khmer Rouge embarked on a radical transformation of
Cambodian society. Pol Pot’s government forced the evacuation of
the capital and other urban areas and embarked on a killing
spree to eradicate intellectuals and ideological opponents.  Death Toll  Estimates of the death toll vary, with Amnesty
International putting the number at 1.4 million out of an
estimated population of 7.1 million, according to the U.S.
Library of Congress’s country  study .  Sihanouk, together with other Cambodian factions, again
forged a coalition with the Khmer Rouge after Pol Pot was forced
from power by the Vietnamese in January 1979. The group was
created to oppose the Vietnam-backed government of  Heng Samrin ;
a decade of civil war followed.  “The humble people of Cambodia are the most wonderful in
the world,” Sihanouk said in 1979, according to the 1980 book
 “Sideshow”  by British journalist William Shawcross. “Their
great misfortune is that they always have terrible leaders who
make them suffer. I am not sure that I was much better myself,
but perhaps I was the least bad.”  Sihanouk’s path back to power began in August 1989 when
Cambodia’s factions met under United Nations auspices in Paris.
A settlement was reached the following year, and in 1991
Sihanouk returned to Phnom Penh to begin the reconstruction
process ahead of nationwide elections in May 1993.  ‘Sarcastic, Petulant’  He largely thumbed his nose at the  UN Transitional
Authority in Cambodia,  better known as Untac, which had
executive powers in the run-up to the election, wrote Pulitzer-
prize winning journalist Henry Kamm in his book, “Cambodia:
Report From a Stricken Land.”  “Where was Sihanouk, the hope of the international
community for persuading Cambodians to make peace and establish
badly needed national solidarity?” Kamm wrote. “He
ostentatiously neglected his chairmanship of the Supreme
National Council, hardly honored his country with his presence
and sent a stream of sarcastic or petulant fax messages to Phnom
Penh from abroad to give vent to his disdain for Untac.”  Aside from politics, Sihanouk was a keen musician and
produced and directed about 20 films -- all about Cambodia. He
routinely invited diplomats for lengthy karaoke sessions and
maintained a  blog .  “I never thought of film-making as a simple amusement or
artistic activity,” he wrote in 1995. “I wanted, and still
want, to show my country, its past and contemporary history, its
culture, its people, and express my feelings regarding certain
facets of our nation’s life. The star of my films is never an
actor. It is always Cambodia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  