-- Novartis Drug Diovan Retains 69% of Prescriptions in U.S.
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2012-10-15T15:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/novartis-drug-diovan-retains-69-of-prescriptions-in-u-s-.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  has held onto 69 percent
of Diovan HCT prescriptions in the U.S. since since the heart
drug, its best-selling product, lost patent protection in the
country last month.  The Swiss drugmaker retained U.S. market share by
introducing its own branded copy through the Sandoz generics
unit, Asthika Goonewardene, a London-based analyst for Bloomberg
Industries, said in a note to clients today.  U.S. prescriptions for Diovan HCT, a combination of Diovan
and a diuretic, have dropped by 64 percent since  Mylan Inc. (MYL)  and
Sandoz each introduced a copy of the pill more than three weeks
ago, Goonewardene said. The Mylan product has taken 47 percent
of the generic market, while the drug made by Sandoz holds 53
percent, he said.  “Novartis is smart in that they’ve put their own version
out,” Goonewardene said in a telephone interview today.  The Diovan franchise in the U.S. had about about $2.3
billion in annual revenue last year, according to  Tim Anderson ,
an analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., with Diovan HCT
accounting for about half of those sales. A competing product to
the single-agent version of Diovan, planned by  Ranbaxy
Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) , has yet to reach the market.  Eric Althoff , a spokesman at Basel-based Novartis, declined
to comment.  Product Pricing  It’s not clear how much Diovan HCT revenue Basel-based
Novartis has lost, or how much it’s gaining through the Sandoz
version, Goonewardene said. Sandoz has no interest in pricing
its copy aggressively as long as Mylan is the sole generic
competitor in the market, he said.  Under U.S. law, a company has 180 days of market
exclusivity after it starts to sell the first copy of a branded
drug. On Oct. 2, Mylan sued the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  for approval to sell a generic version of the
single-agent heart pill following a delay in Ranbaxy’s product
introduction.  Diovan generated $5.7 billion in revenue worldwide last
year, according Novartis’s annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  