-- NYSE Euronext to Offer New Service for European Retail Investors
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-10-15T12:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/nyse-euronext-to-offer-new-service-for-european-retail-investors.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX)  will offer a new
service for European retail investors as it struggles to regain
market share lost to alternative trading systems.  The Retail Matching Facility will begin in mid-January,
according to an e-mailed statement from the New York-based
company today. So-called Retail Liquidity Providers will deliver
buy and sell quotes for retail investors, NYSE Euronext said.  If the Retail Liquidity Providers’ quotes are not
competitively placed then investors’ orders will trade with NYSE
Euronext’s central order book, according to the statement. All
transactions will be identified appropriately and quotes from
RLPs will be broadcast.  “The aim of NYSE Euronext’s Retail Matching Facility is to
promote a more competitive, transparent environment for retail
investors than they currently achieve through bilateral,
internal arrangements with intermediaries,” Alicia Suminski,
head of market and product development, European equity cash
and derivatives, said in the statement.  NYSE Euronext started a U.S. pilot program aimed at
attracting retail investors in August. It allows exchanges to
compete with wholesalers or securities firms that execute orders
for individual investors sent from retail brokers. Executions
through the retail liquidity program must occur at least a 10th
of 1 cent better than the best price at which other market
participants can trade.  Hudson, Getco  Brokers supplying orders for U.S. retail clients on NYSE
include high-frequency firms Hudson River Trading LLC, Getco
LLC, RGM Advisors LLC, Tradebot Systems Inc. and two units of
Virtu Financial LLC, according to NYSE Euronext.  In the U.S., most orders from individual investors who
trade through retail brokers are sent to wholesalers such as
Knight Capital Group Inc. and Citadel LLC, who pay the brokers
for sending them. The wholesalers can then execute the orders
internally, instead of going to an exchange, as long as they
provide prices that match or improve upon levels in the public
markets. Orders from individual investors are attractive because
the senders, unlike professional traders, aren’t expected to
know more about short-term price movements than the firm on the
other side of the trade.  The news of the European platform was reported earlier
today by the Financial Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  