-- Obama Competes With Romney in Targeted Ad War on China Trade
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-10-15T04:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/obama-competes-with-romney-in-targeted-ad-war-on-china-trade.html
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
campaign aired a television commercial in  Ohio  and  Virginia  last
month that touted the tariffs his administration slapped on
Chinese tires three years ago.  Though millions of voters in the two states never saw it,
the ad -- and where it ran -- are integral parts of Obama’s
strategy to carry these election battlegrounds.  The commercial was seen in Ohio markets including Cleveland
and Youngstown, as well as Virginia’s southwestern corner --
areas hard hit by a decades-long decline of U.S. manufacturing
and where voters may be more likely to blame China for economic
woes. The ad didn’t run in Ohio’s capital, Columbus, or the
northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, where the local
economies are more advanced and diversified.  Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  also is using the airways
to duel with Obama over China, offering himself as better able
to combat that country in trade disputes. An ad in which Romney
pledges to “stand up to the cheaters” in China ran last month
in most of the election’s swing states, those with a history of
supporting either major-party presidential candidate. The one
key state where the ad was withheld was  Iowa , where farmers
benefit from expanded trade with nations including China.  The ads underscore the prevalence of an anti-China message
by both candidates amid public distrust of the world’s most
populous nation and second-biggest economy. The placement of the
commercials demonstrate how each camp is using targeted pitches
to influence segments of voters who may determine the White
House winner.  ‘Close Race’  In Ohio, for instance, the anti-China campaign “doesn’t
have to mean” that residents “broadly feel that way,” Herb Asher, a political scientist at  Ohio State University  in
Columbus, said in an interview. “All these ads are trying to do
is to slice off a percentage point or two here and there. It’s
such a close race in Ohio that anything that might convince a
few voters is being tried by the campaigns.”  Ohio, which has 18 electoral votes of the 270 needed to win
the election, has backed the winner in 12 consecutive elections.
Obama has a 1.3 percentage point lead over Romney, according to
an average of recent polls compiled by the website RealClear
Politics.  A national Pew Research Center survey released Sept. 18.
showed that 68 percent of Americans, including 74 percent of
Republicans and 61 percent of Democrats, said they can’t trust
 China  too much or at all.  Total Ads  Against that backdrop, China was a focus of 10 distinct ads
from Obama and Romney that ran 47,190 times in the 30-day period
ended Oct. 8, according to New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG,
which tracks advertising.  Romney, who blames the Obama administration for
manufacturing job losses and a failure to designate China as a
currency manipulator, ran seven ads referencing China 29,317
times. Three of those ads, including the China “cheaters”
spot, ran more frequently than any other commercials Romney’s
campaign aired during that period. Obama’s three China ads ran
17,873 times, CMAG data show.  Obama’s most frequently aired China ad says Romney funneled
U.S jobs to that nation through Bain Capital LLC, the private-
equity firm the Republican co-founded. “Romney’s never stood up
to China,” a narrator says. “All he’s done is send them our
jobs.”  The anti-China ads ran most frequently in Ohio, where
Romney ran five such spots 7,957 times and Obama’s three spots
aired 3,742 times, CMAG data show.  ‘Big Issue’  “Foreign trade is a big issue in Ohio, particularly in
northeastern Ohio,”  John Green , a political scientist at the
University of Akron, said in an interview. “There’s a
widespread perception that the  United States  has lost lots of
jobs abroad, including to China.”  The politics of bashing China and policies affecting U.S.-
China relations have intersected on the campaign trail.  In July, Obama began a swing through Ohio the same day his
administration filed a complaint with the  World Trade
Organization  accusing China of imposing unfair duties on $3.3
billion in U.S. auto exports. Obama announced another WTO
complaint in Ohio last month, accusing China of illegally
subsidizing exports of automobiles and auto parts.  Romney says Obama was motivated by political expediency.
“I will not wait until the last months of my presidency to
stand up to China, or do so only when votes are at stake,”
Romney said in a statement last month responding to the newer
WTO complaint.  The Republican-leaning free-market group Club for Growth,
which supports free trade and cutting government spending and
taxes, attributes Romney’s anti-China stances to political
motivations.  Labeling China a currency manipulator, as Romney has
promised to do as president, “incites a trade war,” Andy Roth,
the club’s vice president for government affairs, said in an
interview. “I think Romney is doing it simply to pander to
voters,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in  Washington  at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jeanne
Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  