-- Tombini Says Brazil Will Defend Itself From Capital Inflows
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-10-15T05:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/moderate-economic-recovery-under-way-in-brazil-tombini-says.html
Brazil’s central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said his country will defend itself from
short-term capital flows that bring financial instability and
inflation risks amid an easing push from major economies.  Destabilizing inflows in 2010 and 2011 stoked a credit boom
in Brazil and undermined the central bank’s inflation fight,
Tombini told reporters in  Tokyo  today. He was responding to a
question about remarks from Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who yesterday rejected the view that U.S. stimulus
policies are hurting  emerging markets .  “We don’t want Brazil to be a marketplace for other
countries’ devalued currencies,” Tombini said. “We have the
conditions to protect ourselves and we are doing that, and we
will continue to do this if it is necessary.”  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government has imposed barriers
on capital inflows and purchased dollars in the spot and futures
markets to weaken the real and help the country’s manufacturers.
The central bank’s 10 straight interest rate cuts since August
last year have also helped make Brazil less attractive to short-
term foreign capital compared with last year, Tombini said.  “We have an  interest rate  which, compared to the world, is
lower,” Tombini said. “We have a more devalued exchange rate
than we did then, and we have a series of measures that we
adopted at that time which are still in place, to reduce
Brazil’s attractiveness to short-term flows.”  Rate Cuts  The Brazilian central bank last week cut the benchmark
Selic rate a quarter point to a record low 7.25 percent to try
to revive the slowest growth among major emerging markets that
make up the so-called BRIC nations. That’s 5.25 percentage
points lower than it was when the bank began a cycle of rate
cuts last year.  The real has weakened 1.1 percent since the Fed announced
its latest round of quantitative easing on Sept. 13, and has
fallen about 22 percent since the central bank began cutting
rates in August 2011, the biggest drop of 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Tombini said he sees “consistent indications” that a
moderate recovery is under way in Brazil, as industrial output
revives, capacity utilization and business confidence improve,
and the country’s farms are set to deliver a record grain
harvest.  Stimulus Measures  The government has complemented the central bank’s rate
cuts with a series of stimulus measures, such as increasing
subsidized lending by national development bank BNDES, reducing
bank reserve requirements, and pressuring commercial banks to
cut rates on consumer loans.  The economy’s year-on-year growth in the second quarter was
0.49 percent, slower than that of Russia, India and  China , the
other BRIC countries. Brazil’s growth rate slowed to 2.7 percent
last year, after expanding 7.5 percent in 2010, its fastest pace
in more than two decades.  The world’s biggest emerging market after China underwent a
“typical business cycle downturn,” Tombini said.  The global economy will exert a disinflationary impact on
Brazil over the next few years, Tombini said. Inflation is
slowing toward its 4.5 percent target in a “non-linear”
fashion, as short-term prices are negatively affected by supply
shocks, he added.  Annual inflation in Brazil accelerated in September for a
third straight month. Prices as measured by the IPCA price index
rose 5.28 percent from a year earlier, the fastest pace since
February.  Inflation has remained above the mid-point of the central
bank’s target for the last two years, and analysts in the latest
central bank survey forecast that it will end 2013 at 5.44
percent.  Brazil  targets inflation of 4.5 percent plus or minus
two percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  