-- Brent Premium Rises to One-Year High; WTI Crude Declines
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-10-16T12:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/oil-trades-near-three-day-low-brent-premium-at-widest-in-a-year.html
Brent crude  traded at the highest
premium in a year to futures in New York amid concern that
supplies from the  North Sea  and the  Middle East  will be
disrupted and speculation U.S. stockpiles are increasing.  Brent in  London  climbed to as high as $24.28 a barrel more
than West Texas Intermediate as WTI remained little changed near
a three-day low. The European Union tightened sanctions on
 Iran ’s energy exports, while  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  declined to give a
specific date for resuming its Buzzard field in the North Sea
after maintenance. Crude inventories in the U.S., the world’s
biggest oil user, rose  1.5 million barrels  last week, according
to a  Bloomberg News  survey before a government report tomorrow.  “The Brent market has been inflated by declining North Sea
production and hiccups in that production, like the recent
problems with Buzzard,” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior
broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in London. “The price of WTI is
also being distorted by the huge increase in U.S. domestic oil
production.”  Crude for November delivery gained 12 cents to $91.97 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
as of 1:31 p.m. London time. The contract yesterday closed at
$91.85, the lowest settlement since Oct. 10. Prices are down 7.4
percent this year.  Brent for November settlement dropped 57 cents to $115.23 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange after
gaining $1.18 yesterday. The contract expires today. The more-
active December future slipped 11 cents to $114.29.  Libyan Uprising  The European benchmark grade’s premium to WTI rose from
$23.95 yesterday. The gap is the widest based on closing prices
since Oct. 14, 2011, when it reached a record $27.88 as Libyan
output collapsed after an uprising against Muammar Qadaffi.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predicted as early as April that
the difference would shrink to $5 and reiterated that forecast
in August. The spread may narrow as refiners return from
maintenance on the U.S. Gulf Coast,  Hussein Allidina , the New
York-based head of commodities research at Morgan Stanley, said
in a report yesterday.  EU foreign ministers in Luxembourg yesterday approved extra
curbs on trade with Iran and on its finance, energy and
transport industries following an oil embargo earlier this year.
They also froze the assets of 34 Iranian entities to limit the
Islamic republic’s ability to raise funds for its atomic
program. The U.S. and EU say the program is aimed at producing
weapons, while Iran says it’s for peaceful purposes.  Buzzard Restart  Nexen declined to specify the timing of the resumption of
the oil flow from the Buzzard field when contacted by Bloomberg
News yesterday. Reuters news agency reported that the restart
has been delayed by as many as four days, citing a trade source
who declined to be identified. Nexen said Oct. 11 that it was on
track for production to resume in mid-October.  Fifteen out of 16 Forties cargoes for loading in October
have been delayed, according to revised loading programs
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Forties is the most abundant of the four North Sea crude
grades that make up the Dated Brent benchmark and, as the
cheapest of the four, typically sets the marker used to price
more than half of the world’s oil.  “Brent prices were supported by further delays in the
restart of Nexen’s Buzzard field after maintenance, which is the
largest North Sea oil field,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity
research at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in
 Melbourne , said in a note. “Expect more volatility to come.”  Gasoline Stockpile  U.S. gasoline stockpiles probably climbed  250,000 barrels 
last week, according to the median estimate of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg before the Energy Department report.
Distillate supplies, a category that includes heating oil and
diesel, fell 1.25 million barrels, the survey shows.  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release separate
inventory data today. The API collects stockpile information on
a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals
and pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed
with the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  Oil in  New York  has technical support around $90 a barrel,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures yesterday
halted their decline near that price, where the 100-day moving
average coincides with a Fibonacci retracement level on the
weekly chart. Buy orders tend to be clustered close to
technical-support levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  