-- Oil Little Changed on Equity Gain, Economic Outlook
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-10-15T20:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/oil-falls-with-commodities-on-economic-outlook.html
Oil was little changed in  New York 
as advancing equities countered concern that the global economy
is weakening. West Texas Intermediate crude, the U.S. benchmark,
traded at the greatest discount to Brent in a year.  WTI erased most losses after the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index increased and Brent oil from the North Sea climbed before
the November contract expires tomorrow. Prices slipped as much
as 2.3 percent earlier as a manufacturing  index  in the New York
region contracted for a third straight month in October.  “The S&P gain and tightness in the Brent market ahead of
expiration are helping boost WTI,” said  Tim Evans , an energy
analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York. “Market
sentiment itself is weighing on prices.”  Crude oil for November delivery fell 1 cent to settle at
$91.85 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are
down 7.1 percent this year.  Brent oil for November settlement rose $1.18, or 1 percent,
to end the session at $115.80 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. The more-active December contract
gained 79 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $114.40.  The European benchmark ended trading at a $23.95 premium to
the New York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade, up from
$22.76 on Oct. 12. It was the widest since Oct. 14, 2011.  The spread between the grades may narrow as U.S. Gulf Coast
refiners resume operations after maintenance and as North Sea
production climbs with the end of work on  oil fields ,  Hussein Allidina , the head of commodities research at Morgan Stanley,
said in a report dated today.  Retail Sales  Stocks climbed after September American retail sales topped
estimates. The  S&P 500 (SPX)  increased 0.8 percent and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  advanced 0.7 percent.  The 1.1 percent  advance  in retail sales followed a revised
1.2 percent gain in August, the best back-to-back showing since
late 2010, the Commerce Department said today in Washington. The
 median  forecast of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for a 0.8 percent rise.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index missed analysts’ expectations. It was minus 6.2 in
October. The median forecast of 46 economists in a Bloomberg
survey called for a gain to minus 4. The figure was minus 10.4
in September, the lowest level since April 2009. The index
covers New York, northern New Jersey and southern  Connecticut .  “The economic outlook is worrying and that has hit the
demand side of the equation,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market
analyst at the Price Futures Group in Chicago.  China’s inflation was close to the slowest pace in two
years in September. Consumer prices rose 1.9 percent from a year
earlier while the producer-price index dropped 3.6 percent, the
 National Bureau of Statistics  said on its website today.  Biggest Consumers  “The New York Fed numbers highlight concerns about slow
economic growth and the very challenged demand outlook,” said
 John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based
energy hedge fund. “The market didn’t like the Chinese numbers
over the weekend either.”  The U.S. and China are the world’s biggest oil-consuming
countries, together accounting for 32 percent of global demand
in 2011, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World
Energy released in June.  The  International Monetary Fund  this month cut its global
growth forecasts as the euro area’s debt crisis intensifies. The
IMF said Oct. 9 that the global economy will expand 3.3 percent
this year, less than the July estimate of 3.5 percent. The IMF
warned of even slower expansion unless officials in the U.S. and
Europe address threats to their economies.  Tighter Sanctions  The European Union tightened sanctions today on Iran in a
bid to persuade Tehran to permit more international scrutiny of
its nuclear program and avert a possible military conflict.  EU foreign ministers in Luxembourg approved extra curbs on
trade with Iran and on its finance, energy and transport
industries following an oil embargo and central-bank asset
freeze earlier this year. The ministers also froze assets of 34
Iranian entities.  Turkey  is buying more oil from Russia and Saudi Arabia as
it seeks to extend an exemption granted by the U.S. for
purchases from Iran, Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  said. Turkey’s
exemption to continue buying Iranian crude amid sanctions
against the Persian Gulf country expires on Dec. 6. Turkey is in
talks with the U.S. and expects a dispensation, Yildiz said.  Iran is ready to enter talks about its nuclear program in
exchange for guaranteed supplies of 20 percent-enriched uranium
for its Tehran Research Reactor, said  Ramin Mehmanparast , a
Foreign Ministry spokesman, according to a Press TV report
yesterday.  Iranian Output  Iran pumped 2.85 million barrels of oil a day in September,
down 735,000 barrels from a year earlier, a Bloomberg survey of
 oil companies , producers and analysts showed. The Islamic
republic became the third-biggest producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries in July, after  Saudi Arabia  and
 Iraq . Iran had been the second-biggest since May 2000.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 565,394
contracts as of 4:13 p.m. Volume totaled 403,353 contracts Oct.
12, 23 percent below the three-month average. Open interest was
1.57 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  