-- Hong Kong Industrial Property Returns Slowing, Says Churchouse
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-10-15T00:59:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/hong-kong-industrial-property-returns-slowing-says-churchouse.html
Returns on Hong Kong industrial
properties are slowing after prices of factories and warehouses
doubled since early 2009, according to Peter Churchouse, former
head of property research for Asia at Morgan Stanley.  The average rate of return for funds investing in
industrial buildings in Hong Kong has declined to about 20
percent to 25 percent from almost 70 percent five years ago,
said Churchouse, who now runs Portwood Capital Ltd., a closely
held investment company he founded in 2009.  Increased demand for commercial space in Hong Kong, the
world’s most expensive place to rent offices, has prompted
factory and warehouse owners to convert properties to
accommodate tenants seeking space for marketing showrooms and
retail outlets. The average price of factory space has more than
doubled since early 2009 to HK$2,708 ($349) per square foot at
the end of the first half, according to property broker CBRE
Group Inc., the world’s biggest commercial realtor.  “The days of 70 percent rate of return are probably
over,” Churchouse, who has been investing in Asian properties
for 30 years and publishes the Asia Hard Assets report, said in
an interview Oct. 12.  “Pricing is making it tougher. The
growth in value of industrial buildings in the last five years
has been higher than any other asset classes in Hong Kong.”  Hong Kong’s Chief Secretary Carrie Lam said last month the
government is working to convert more industrial buildings into
residential use, as it faces pressure to boost housing supply in
the city where home prices have gained more than 90 percent
since early 2009.  Rents Surge  Rents for industrial space, mostly clustered around
districts such as Kowloon East and the New Territories, have
risen about 50 percent since early 2009, according to Los
Angeles-based CBRE. Hong Kong’s Central business district has
the world’s highest office occupancy cost, at $248.83 per square
foot a year, CBRE said in July.  Companies have been moving offices away from the district
to less expensive areas, while financial services firms have
been relocating their back offices to cut costs.  “It’s the change of use factors that have driven valuation
in these spaces,” said Churchouse, whose funds invest in
industrial buildings in the city. “It’s still an attractive
investment, but it’s quite difficult to sniff out these
opportunities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at   kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  