-- Most Buying Since August Propels 50% Borrowing Leap: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-10-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/most-buying-since-august-propels-50-borrowing-leap-muni-credit.html
Investors are pouring the most money
in two months into the $3.7 trillion municipal market, helping
U.S. local governments lower costs during the biggest borrowing
wave since June.  Individuals added $915 million to muni mutual funds in the
week ended Oct. 10, the most since early August, Lipper US Fund
Flows data show. With the gain, about $51 billion has flowed in
since September 2011. That exceeds the exodus of cash that began
in November 2010 and quickened after banking analyst  Meredith Whitney ’s prediction the next month of “hundreds of billions of
dollars” of defaults within a year.  The burst of buying shows investors aren’t shying from
yields close to the  lowest  since 1967. That’s in part because
local debt is still cheaper than Treasuries when comparing the
asset classes since the recession ended in 2009. The cash wave
has been a boon to issuers such as Denver, which was able to
reduce yields during an $856 million sale last week for its
airport.  “I would have thought weeks ago that inflows would have
slowed, but that simply hasn’t happened,” said John Dillon,
chief muni strategist in Purchase, New York, at Morgan Stanley
Smith Barney, which oversees about $150 billion of the bonds.
“There’s been a lot of supply in the marketplace in the last
few weeks. The buyers have been handling it very well.”  Borrowers’ Advantage  Local governments recovering from the worst recession since
the 1930s have taken advantage of tumbling borrowing costs by
 issuing  50 percent more than 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Defaults are on a pace to be the fewest in at least three
years, helping make state and city debt a haven amid  Europe ’s
debt crisis and running counter to Whitney’s prediction, made on
CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes.”  Twenty-year general-obligation bonds last week yielded 3.64
percent, according to a Bond Buyer index. The interest rate
touched 3.6 percent in January, the lowest since 1967, when
Lyndon B. Johnson was president.  “Somewhat begrudgingly, investors have said, ‘I have to
accept these rates if I want the lower risk profile of munis,’”
said John Hallacy, head of muni research at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in New York. Even with three California
municipalities filing for bankruptcy since June, “it’s still a
market where there’s relative stability.”  Beating Treasuries  The tax-exempt market has returned 6.8 percent this year
through Oct. 11, while Treasuries have earned 2.1 percent, Bank
of America data show. That’s the biggest differential for the
period since 2009.  Benchmark 10-year tax-exempts yield about 1.65 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show, compared with 1.66 percent on
similar-maturity Treasuries. That means the muni yield is about
 99 percent  of the federal interest rate, compared with an
average of 96 percent since June 2009, and 93 percent since
2001, Bloomberg data show. The ratio is a gauge of relative
value between the asset classes.  Relative to Treasuries, “we’re still so cheap,” said
Thomas Metzold, co-director of municipal investments in  Boston 
at Eaton Vance Management, which oversaw about $185 billion as
of Dec. 31. “In 2007, we were at 85 percent. We’ve got a long
way to go until we get back to rational valuations.”  Sale Boost  Last week, the Massachusetts School Building Authority,
which funds capital projects, increased its issue in response to
demand, according to Alan Schankel at Janney Montgomery Scott in
Philadelphia. The agency sold about $916 million, up from an
initial plan for $725 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  In Denver’s sale for renovations at Denver International
Airport, investors’ orders outstripped availability, allowing
the city to reduce yields as much as 0.10 percentage point, said
Cary Kennedy, the city’s chief financial officer. The bonds are
backed by revenue from the airport.  “There was a lot of volume this week, but DIA’s bonds
performed very well,” she said in an Oct. 12 interview. “We
were very pleased with the investor demand. It allowed us to
achieve substantial savings for the airport.”  The flood of sales may not be over, as states and cities
prepare to sell the most debt in four months. The average 30-day
visible  supply  last week was about $10 billion, the most since
mid-June, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  October has been the biggest month for local-government
issuance over the past three years, Bloomberg data show. That’s
one reason munis on average have lost 0.41 percent in October
since 2001, the steepest decline for any month, Bank of America
data show.  Following are pending sales:  CALIFORNIA plans to sell about $550 million in general-
obligation refunding bonds as soon as Oct. 23, according to the
state treasurer’s website. The debt will be sold via auction.
(Added Oct. 15)  New York’s METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY is set to
issue as soon as this week $950 million of revenue bonds to
refinance debt sold in 2002, according to offering documents.
(Updated Oct. 12)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  