-- Louisiana May Refinance Superdome Debt, Pay $95 Million
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-10-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/louisiana-may-refinance-superdome-debt-pay-95-million.html
Louisiana , one of the poorest U.S.
states, may move to pay a $95 million penalty to refinance debt
taken on to renovate the Mercedes-Benz Superdome, home of the
 National Football League ’s  New Orleans Saints .  The State Bond Commission will weigh a request this week
from the agency that owns the Superdome for initial approval to
refinance $294 million of securities. The deal would trigger the
penalty to unwind related interest-rate swap agreements with
 Bank of America Corp. , which would get the payment.  The refinancing would be done through a negotiated
transaction with the bank’s Merrill Lynch unit, according to
documents from the Louisiana Stadium and Exposition District,
which sold the debt in 2006. Merrill Lynch handled that sale
through the now-moribund auction-rate securities market, and the
swap agreements. If a deal is authorized, Whit Kling, the
agency’s director, said it would end an unusual situation.  “This has been a sore subject for some time,” Kling said
Oct. 12 by telephone. “None of the parties is going to get 100
percent satisfaction.”  William Halldin , a spokesman for the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based lender, said the bank had no comment on the
proposals.  The agency has requested authority to sell as much as $450
million of bonds through one of four proposed options it is
asking the board to look at, Kling said.  “Each of the methods will end up with a different
result,” he said.  Katrina Repairs  The four proposed refinancing methods, which involve
various combinations of fixed and variable-rate debt, each have
costs as well as advantages and disadvantages for the parties
involved, including the state and the district, Kling said. The
initial borrowing raised money to pay for renovating and
repairing the stadium following  Hurricane Katrina  in 2005.  Louisiana had to buy the bonds as an investment after the
auction-rate  securities market  froze in early 2008, saving the
district from paying  interest rates  as high as 18 percent, Kling
said. While the state has held it, the debt, which is offered
for resale every week or month, has been resetting at yields of
1.25 percent, he said, saving money on interest that the state
would ultimately be responsible for.  The market collapsed when securities dealers that handled
the periodic auctions stopped acting as buyers-of-last-resort to
acquire bonds that investors no longer wanted.  Frozen Market  The dealers provided liquidity, keeping the market afloat
before withdrawing support as the crisis that began in the
residential-mortgage market spread in early 2008. That forced
many issuers to refinance debt or face penalty rates.  The U.S.  Internal Revenue Service  let Louisiana take on
what was essentially its own debt -- an unusual arrangement --
and told state officials to come up with a refinancing plan this
year or hold the securities to maturity in 2036, Kling said.  About 18 percent of Louisiana’s population lives in
poverty, compared with 14 percent nationwide, according to U.S.
Census Bureau data.  Federal law doesn’t permit an issuer to buy its own bonds.
The IRS made exceptions after the auction-rate market’s
collapse. The state is required to pay fees to the IRS, and
would use part of the refinancing proceeds to pay some fees,
according to filings with the commission.  Eric Eagan, a spokesman for the Superdome, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  