-- House Panel Starts Reviewing Fed Documents on Libor
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-10-15T22:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/house-panel-starts-reviewing-fed-documents-on-libor.html
A U.S. House subcommittee received
more than 5,000 pages of documents it requested on the Federal
Reserve Bank of  New York ’s communications on how the  London 
interbank offered rate was set.  The 5,000 to 6,000 pages include internal New York Fed
communications, and communications between the regional Fed bank
and other U.S. regulators, as well as with foreign government
agencies in the United Kingdom,  Jeff Emerson , a spokesman for
the House Financial Services Committee, said in an e-mail today.
Staff of the committee’s oversight and investigations
subcommittee has started to review the documents, Emerson said.  U.S. Representative  Randy Neugebauer  in July asked the New
York Fed release communications on Libor rate submissions from
August 2007 onwards. The U.S. central bank has been under
scrutiny from lawmakers after the New York Fed released
documents on July 13 showing it was aware that Barclays Plc
underreported Libor rates in 2008.  In a letter sent July 23 to William C. Dudley, president of
the New York Fed, Neugebauer, a Texas Republican, said there are
still “outstanding questions that merit further
investigation.”  The documents show “that the New York Fed helped to
identify the problem of under-reporting of Libor, briefed  U.S.
Treasury  and other regulatory agencies on the issue and worked
to address the problem at its core by pressing for reform of the
flawed Libor rate-setting process in London,” Krishna Guha, a
New York Fed spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  