-- Teenage Pakistan Activist Flown to U.K. After Taliban Attack
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-10-15T12:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/pakistani-activist-sent-to-u-k-for-prolonged-treatment-2-.html
A 14-year-old activist who was shot
in the head by Taliban gunmen was flown to the U.K. for more
medical treatment today after doctors in  Pakistan  concluded she
was stable enough to travel.  Information about Malala Yousufzai’s journey was kept
secret until the last minute over fears that she’d be attacked
again, Interior Minister Rehman Malik said in Islamabad. Late
yesterday, several dozen militants attacked a police checkpoint
in northwest Pakistan, killing at least six security officials.  The Oct. 9 attack on Yousufzai, who began writing blog
posts at age 11 documenting Taliban repression in her native
Swat Valley, drew condemnation from leaders in Pakistan and
abroad. Pakistanis held a day of prayer for her on Oct. 12,
while school children, politicians and religious groups held
rallies over the weekend to condemn the shooting.  Yousufzai will need “prolonged care to fully recover from
the physical and psychological effects of trauma that she has
received,” the Pakistani army said in an e-mailed statement
today. Her condition is stable, Pakistani military spokesman
Major General Asim Saleem Bajwa said in a phone interview from
Rawalpindi.  Costs for Yousufzai’s care in a National Health Service
hospital will be paid for by the Pakistani government, U.K.
Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told reporters while in
Luxembourg today. “The  United Kingdom  stands shoulder to
shoulder with the people of Pakistan in fighting terrorism,”
Hague said.  Secular Thoughts  The Taliban said on Pakistani media the girl was attacked
for spreading secular thoughts in the insurgency-hit valley
where she lived. The attack may weaken support for the Taliban
and other militant groups that oppose the country’s alliance
with the U.S. and western allies fighting in neighboring
 Afghanistan , according to the  International Crisis Group .  In yesterday’s attack, between 60 and 70 militants overran
the checkpoint in Matni, south of Peshawar, for several hours,
police official Javed Khan said in a phone interview. A senior
police officer was among the dead, Khan said.  The militants set fire to the checkpoint before fleeing,
Khan said, adding that he had no information on any militant
casualties. The police office in  Peshawar  said the dead included
policemen and paramilitary troops.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  