-- Pakistan Pricing, Russia Mega Reform, CME: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-10-15T12:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/pakistan-pricing-russia-mega-reform-cme-compliance.html
The  Securities Exchange Commission
of Pakistan  will establish a bond-pricing agency within six
months to value corporate notes and sukuk as the South Asian
nation seeks to attract global investors to its capital markets.  The plan is to improve transparency and increase trading
volume, Imtiaz Haider, commissioner of the securities market
division, said Oct. 12. Prices of bonds issued by companies are
currently quoted by the Mutual Funds Association of Pakistan,
which has an “inherent conflict of interest,” he said.  Pakistan is looking to boost foreign investment after the
International Monetary Fund suspended financial assistance in
May 2010 because the country failed to meet conditions on a
$11.3 billion loan, which expired in September 2011. The rupee
trading near a record low is making it more expensive for
corporate entities to buy dollars, while the second quarter
current-account deficit was the largest since 2008.  The regulator has also drafted rules to allow companies to
sell sukuk, a financial instrument that complies with Shariah
law, so long as they have no overdue loans, the Securities
Commission said in a statement on Oct. 4. The issuer and the
underlying assets also shouldn’t be rated lower than BBB-, it
said.  Compliance Policy  Russia Mega-Regulator Seen Slowing Market Reform, Investors Say  The Russian government’s plan to merge the  Federal
Financial Markets Service  and the central bank may hamper the
development of the country’s financial markets, according to
investors at Alor Invest, NP RTS and Finam Management.  President  Vladimir Putin ’s government is seeking to
modernize the economy and remake Moscow into a global financial
hub to reduce dependence on energy exports. Russia is committed
to creating a so-called mega-regulator because global experience
shows it’s better to have oversight and regulation concentrated
in one entity, Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said
Sept. 12 in Moscow.  The mega-regulator must combine oversight with steps to
develop the markets, Victor Remsha, the founder and owner of
Moscow-based investment company Finam Management, said.  Merging market oversight and regulation may lead to a
conflict of interest in the central bank, Economy Minister
Andrei Belousov said in Sochi on Sept. 21. The unified entity
may start work by the end of 2013 or in early 2014, according to
Siluanov.  The government is keeping investors in the dark about the
details of the merger, Anatoly Gavrilenko, board chairman of
Alor Invest brokerage, said in an interview Oct. 11.  EU’s Bowles Says Bonus Rule Deal Needs to Include Binding Limit  The  European Parliament  and member governments may reach a
compromise on bonus curbs for bankers that limit how far pay
awards can exceed fixed salaries, lawmaker  Sharon Bowles  said.  Bowles, who heads the assembly’s Economic and Monetary
Affairs Committee, said a compromise deal would need to set a
“multiple” of how many times a bonus can exceed fixed pay.  Bowles, who has applied to replace Mervyn King as governor
of the Bank of England, said Oct. 12 in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with  Guy Johnson , that she
thinks the feeling is “very strong” in the parliament in favor
of setting a maximum ratio.  Bankers are facing a backlash from European lawmakers
determined to cut variable pay as part of a quest to reshape
lenders as utilities rather than money-making machines. The
regulatory push comes as public outrage and shareholder
rebellions this year forced some banks, including  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , to retreat from their initial pay plans.  As part of this push, lawmakers in May put a ban on bonuses
that exceed fixed salaries into their negotiating position on a
draft bank capital law.  The move has been opposed by lenders and some governments
over concern about stifling competition.  Compliance Action  Wall Street Joins CME in Winning Delays of U.S. Swaps Rules  CME Group Inc. (CME) , energy traders and Wall Street banks won
delays and exemptions from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission as regulations intended to improve oversight of the
swaps market took effect.  Among a flurry of short-term extensions, the CFTC announced
that foreign entities including the overseas branches of U.S.-
based banks wouldn’t have to begin tallying swaps right away and
perhaps not until the end of the year.  The agency also said that swaps traded by companies
transitioning to futures at CME, owner of the world’s largest
futures exchange, won’t count toward new swap dealer
registration requirements until Dec. 31.  The relief is intended “to enable any such transition to
proceed in an orderly manner,”  Gary Barnett , director of the
CFTC’s division of swap dealer and intermediary oversight, said
in a letter released in Washington.  The CFTC is among several agencies writing and implementing
rules mandated by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, which overhauled U.S.
financial regulation in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis.
The act required U.S. regulators to oversee the over-the-counter
swaps market for the first time.  Swaps trading has been a major source of revenue for large
U.S. banks, and some have conducted roughly half of such trades
overseas, often through branches or subsidiaries.  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , for example, derives as much of its quarterly revenue
from global operations.  The CFTC has yet to complete guidance for the reach of
Dodd-Frank clearing, trading and capital regulations and the
temporary relief is intended to ease transition. The agency
released a no-action letter governing the international scope of
the regulations, providing temporary relief until as late as the
end of the year for certain foreign entities.  For more, click here.  U.K. Antitrust Office Seeks Comment on CME’s New London Exchange  The U.K. Office of Fair Trading has asked for comment from
the public on CME Group Inc.’s plans to open a derivatives
market in London next year, competing with Europe’s two largest
futures exchanges.  The new U.K. platform, which will start with  30  currency
products, is going through the regulatory process in order to
open in mid-2013. The comment period closes Nov. 22, the OFT
said Oct. 12, adding it will “pay particular attention to the
applicant’s rules on participation criteria and the arrangements
for clearing and settlement of trades.”  The consultation starts as  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  -- also
planning to start a derivatives trading system in London next
year -- said it will seek more than 10 percent market share in
its first year of operation.  CME Europe is focused on boosting volume in all of its
products to 5,000 to 10,000 contracts a day, a level that will
encourage traders to use the system, Robert Ray, chief executive
officer of the new exchange, said in a September interview.  The new London exchanges will compete with Liffe and
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s Eurex, the largest derivatives venues in
Europe.  Oil Market Rules May Cut Liquidity and Spur Volatility, IEA Says  The introduction of stricter oil market regulations aimed
at reducing speculation may drive down trading volumes and make
prices more volatile, the  International Energy Agency  said.  “Recent regulatory measures, such as speculative position
limits, aimed at limiting participation and reducing the risk
bearing capacity of ‘speculators’ may have unintended
consequences, such as decline in liquidity, higher hedging costs
and increased volatility,” the Paris-based adviser to 28
nations said Oct. 12 in its medium-term oil market report.  New rules in the U.S. have already affected swap markets by
pushing so-called over-the-counter derivatives to trade on
futures exchanges, the IEA said.  A U.S. federal judge last month rejected a rule by the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission that would impose futures
position limits on energy commodities. The caps were set to take
effect Oct. 12.  Google German Criminal Street View Probe Said to Be Dropped  German prosecutors will drop a criminal probe into whether
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  illegally gathered wireless-network data for its
Street View mapping service, two people familiar with the issue
said.  Prosecutors in the city of Hamburg didn’t find criminal
violations, according to the people, who declined to be
identified because the matter hasn’t formally ended.  Hamburg prosecutors have finalized their investigation and
are preparing to issue a decision, spokeswoman Nana Frombach
said. They opened the inquiry in 2010 after receiving a
complaint. No suspects were identified.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, has come under
mounting scrutiny from regulators worldwide over privacy issues
related to Street View. The  Federal Communications Commission 
fined Google $25,000 for impeding its probe of improper data
gathering. Norway’s data watchdog fined Google 250,000 kroner
($43,913) and the French levied a record 100,000 euro fine. The
Paris-based authority will announce next week the results of its
audit into recent changes to Google’s privacy policy.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, didn’t
immediately respond to requests for comment.  Regulator Says It’s Concerned With TransCanada’s Non-Compliance  Canada’s pipeline regulator said it is concerned with
regulatory “non-compliance” by  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  and will
audit the company’s safety measures.  An internal audit by TransCanada verified “many of the
allegations of regulatory non-compliance” raised in May by a
company employee, the National Energy Board said Oct. 12 in a
letter posted on its website.  The board will conduct a “focused audit and inspections”
to evaluate measures taken by TransCanada to address the issues.  Courts  Total Loses EU Court Appeal of 78.6 Million-Euro Cartel Fine  Total SA (FP) , France’s largest oil company, and its Elf
Aquitaine unit lost a final appeal at the European Union’s top
court seeking to annul a 78.6 million-euro ($102 million) fine
for fixing prices on bleaching chemicals.  The  EU Court of Justice , the bloc’s highest court, rejected
the appeal “in its entirety” in a  decision  dated Sept. 13
posted on its website this week. The court, which said none of
the arguments “are likely to succeed,” also rejected a request
to cut the fines.  Total, based in Paris, declined to comment.  The cartel lasted from 1994 until 2000, according to the EU
regulator.  The case is: C-495/11 P, Total SA, Elf Aquitaine SA v.
European Commission.  Senators Criticize Oil Industry Challenge of SEC Disclosure Rule  Two U.S. senators who wrote the provision in the Dodd-Frank
law requiring oil and gas companies to report payments to
foreign governments defended it against a lawsuit that said
regulators went beyond what Congress intended.  The American Petroleum Institute, whose members include
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , and other business groups
sued in federal court Oct. 11, saying the regulation based on
the law “grossly misinterpreted” the lawmakers’ directive by
requiring each company to report publicly payments made to a
foreign government.  Senator  Ben Cardin , a Maryland Democrat, who wrote the
provision with Senator Richard Lugar, an Indiana Republican,
disputed the argument by API and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
that the rule, written by the Securities and Exchange Commission
to implement the 2010 overhaul of financial markets, places U.S.
companies at a competitive disadvantage. Cardin made the comment
Oct. 12 in a  statement .  “Congress and the SEC carefully crafted a reasonable and
very manageable reporting requirement that will bring greater
transparency to oil, gas and mineral sector,” Cardin said.  The SEC approved a rule in August requiring public
companies to disclose payments of more than $100,000 to foreign
governments relating to the development of oil, gas or minerals.  The business groups say companies should be able to report
payments to the SEC confidentially. They also argue the SEC
didn’t adequately consider the rule’s effects on competition.  The case is American Petroleum Institute v. U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, 12-cv-01668, U.S. District Court,
District of Columbia (Washington).  Interviews/Speeches  CFTC’s Gensler Says He’s Interested in Second Term  Gary Gensler , chairman of the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, said he’d be willing to serve a second term
as head of the agency bringing the first federal regulation to
the $648 trillion swaps market.  Peter Cook reported on Gensler’s remarks in an interview on
Bloomberg Government’s “Capitol Gains” program, which aired on
Bloomberg Television last weekend.  For the video, click here.  Bair Says Money Funds Are Systemic Risk SEC Must Act to Contain  Sheila Bair , former chairman of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., said the $2.5 trillion money-market mutual fund
industry poses a potential risk to the financial system and the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission should take
responsibility for regulating it.  “It’s not stable” and the industry is “a systemic
risk,” Bair told reporters yesterday at a conference in New
York organized by the National Association for Business
Economics. “The SEC is responsible, and they haven’t moved
forward.”  SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro in August gave up on a plan to
tighten regulation of the funds, an alternative to bank accounts
for individuals and companies, after three of five commissioners
told her they wouldn’t vote to issue it for public comment.  The FSOC “should step in to act” if the SEC doesn’t, she
told reporters. Bair, 58, is now a senior adviser to the
Washington-based Pew Charitable Trusts.  The regulatory overhaul process “shines as a very bad
example” of the industry’s confrontations with regulators, who
are “still are trying to deal with a very obvious problem”
that destabilized the financial system in 2008, Bair said in
response to an audience question after a speech.  Turner Says U.K Should Have Forced Banks to Raise More Capital  Financial Services Authority Chairman  Adair Turner  said he
regrets not having pushed for banks to raise more capital during
the financial crisis when it would have been more palatable with
voters.  Turner, among the favorites to replace Mervyn King as
governor of the Bank of England, said politicians, regulators
and central bankers should have demanded banks increase capital
cushions to protect against the highs and lows of the economic
cycle. Banks could have drawn down additional buffers since then
to help the economy through the subsequent recessions.  “If I could roll back to 2008 all over again, and if I had
known then what I know now, I would have argued for us then
doing more dramatic capitalization of our banks at the point
where we had the opportunity to take them up to a higher
level,” Turner said two days ago at a conference on the fringes
of the International Monetary Fund’s annual meeting in Tokyo.  The comments suggest Turner may seek remedies that don’t
require further taxpayer support for banks in the future.
Regulators have suggested the use of contingent convertible
bonds, known as CoCos, which convert into shares when the bank’s
capital ratio falls below a predefined level.  Speculation on who will succeed King in June is centering
on BOE Deputy Governor Paul Tucker and Turner.  Tucker, who was also in Tokyo, on Oct. 12 told bankers to
strengthen themselves so that they never again have to rely on
bailouts or face an “uncontainable” backlash from the public.  Comings and Goings  Lauvergeon May Head New French State-Controlled Bank, JDD Says  Anne Lauvergeon, former head of nuclear-equipment company
 Areva SA (AREVA) , is the most likely candidate to become chief executive
officer of Banque Publique d’Investissement, a new French state-
controlled investment bank, Le Journal du Dimanche reported,
citing an unidentified person close to Caisse des Depots et
Consignations.  Caisse des Depots et Consignations’ CEO Jean-Pierre Jouyet
is likely to add the role of Banque Publique’s chairman,
according to Le Journal du Dimanche.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 