-- Palestinians Cry ‘Feed My Children’ as Abbas Rule Imperiled
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 2012-10-16T11:49:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/palestinians-cry-feed-my-children-as-crisis-threatens-abbas.html
In the Palestinian city of  Ramallah ,
protesters thronged the streets this month shouting “feed my
children” after the government once again failed to pay 170,000
civil servants their monthly salaries on time.  In Hebron to the south, hundreds of demonstrators burned
tires in September to protest the economic squeeze, while in
Bethlehem residents tore down road signs to show their anger.  Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas is struggling
to plug a $1.3 billion budget deficit as foreign aid dries up.
That’s forcing government workers to subsist on partial salaries
and sidelining the stalled peace negotiations, which are largely
being ignored next door in Israel as campaigning gets under way
for the Jan. 22 election.  “The PA doesn’t have any magic solutions or even a
political vision and all doors seem to be closed,” Naser Abdul
Kareem, an economist at Bir Zeit University near Ramallah, said
in a telephone interview. “The situation is not just bad and
complicated, but it’s leading to an explosion.”  Abbas, 77, returned frustrated from September’s United
Nations General Assembly, where he called again for recognition
of Palestinian statehood and asked foreign donors to honor
outstanding aid pledges. He sent a letter to President  Barack Obama  today emphasizing his commitment to negotiating a peace
agreement with Israel, according to the official Palestinian
news agency, Wafa.  UN Moves  Abbas was responding to  criticism  yesterday from the U.S.
ambassador to the UN, Susan Rice, of his latest effort to
upgrade Palestinian status at the world body to “non-member
state observer” from “entity observer,” a step that wouldn’t
require Security Council approval.  Without foreign aid, Abbas’s government would face a budget
deficit of more than 7 percent of gross domestic product at a
time when government borrowing from local banks is according to
the World Bank “at the limit that the banking sector can
sustain.” Foreign aid accounts for about 14 percent of GDP,
while the share of  public sector jobs  account for 22 percent of
overall employment, according to the  World Bank. (BOWEMBA)   Donors, including Gulf Arab states, cut or reduced aid
after Abbas last year asked for UN recognition of Palestinian
statehood, a step that the U.S. and Israel opposed.  Uprising Risk  Abdul Kareem said public anger in the West Bank may lead to
a third “intifada” -- the Arabic name for two previous
uprisings against Israel. This time, he said, the violence also
may be directed against Abbas and his government.  In the event that does happen, Israel would hardly be left
unscathed, said Mkhaimar Abusada, a political scientist at Al-
Azhar University in Gaza.  The 4.2 million Palestinians  who live  in the West Bank and
Gaza’s roughly 6,220 square kilometers, which is about the size
of  Delaware , are constantly reminded of Israeli restrictions on
movement and land ownership, while Jewish settlements in the
West Bank are allowed to keep expanding, Abusada said.  “At the end of the day, Israel will certainly be the
primary target,” Abusada said.  Because Abbas’s administration plays a major role in
keeping order and preventing attacks on Israelis, it’s unlikely
that Israel, the U.S. and the European Union would let it
collapse, said Jonathan Spyer, an Israeli political scientist at
the Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya, which is north of Tel
Aviv.  Israeli ‘Insurance’  “It may be ironic, but Abbas’s best insurance against
meeting the fate of other secular rulers in the Arab Spring is
the  Israel  Defense Forces,” Spyer said.  Israel is taking action to bolster the Palestinian
Authority, though Abbas says it’s not enough. Israel offered to
distribute 5,000 additional permits for Palestinians to work in
the country, the Finance Ministry said in a Sept. 27 statement.
It also advanced payment of 380 million shekels ($98 million)
from taxes collected on the Authority’s behalf.  Though the Palestinian Monetary Authority has rough plans
to issue its own currency, West Bank and Gaza residents use the
shekel because of the small size of the economy and its reliance
on Israel for trade and collection of shipping tariffs,
officials say.  Among the biggest barriers to Palestinian economic growth
has been Israeli roadblocks throughout the West Bank, which slow
the movement of goods to market, according to the World Bank.
Israel says the restrictions prevent militant attacks.  Military Checkpoints  Israel has removed several military checkpoints in the West
Bank and has eased limitations on imports into Gaza during the
past year.  Israel captured the West Bank, Gaza and east  Jerusalem  in
the 1967 Middle East war from Jordan and  Egypt . While ceding
much of its power with the 1993 Oslo agreements, Israel
maintains authority over major roads, airspace and borders. The
Islamic militant Hamas group seized full control of Gaza in
2007.  To help soften Palestinian anger, Prime Minister Salam Fayyad vowed last month to cut the price of fuel and to pay
government salaries on time. Other Cabinet members say that
pledge isn’t realistic.  “The donors have not paid their share and there is no
specific data when the salaries will be delivered,” Finance
Minister Nabil Qassis told reporters on Oct. 3 in Ramallah,
referring to September salaries. August salaries were partially
paid. “This month is worse than last month and if financial aid
is not provided the crisis will continue.”  The West Bank and Gaza’s $10 billion gross domestic product
expanded about 5 percent in 2011, down from an average of about
9 percent from 2008 to 2010, the International Monetary Fund
said. Unemployment rose to 19 percent in the first half of 2012
from 16 percent in the previous year, according to the IMF.  “We’re demanding change,” said Hazem Abu Helal, a 27-
year-old lawyer who took part in the Ramallah protests. “You
just can’t disconnect politics from the economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Fadwa Hodali in Ramallah at 
 fhodali@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  