-- Peru August Economic Activity Expands 6.3% on Construction
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-10-15T16:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/peru-s-economic-activity-expanded-6-3-in-august-on-construction.html
Peru’s  economic  growth rate held
above 6 percent for a fourth straight month as surging
construction activity and a rebound in manufacturing offset a
drop in demand for its commodity exports.  Economic activity rose 6.3 percent in August from the same
month a year earlier, following a 7.2 percent increase in July,
the government’s statistics agency said today in an e-mailed
report. Economists predicted growth of 6.6 percent, according to
the median estimate of 10 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  Construction of malls, homes and copper mines and the
government’s infrastructure-heavy stimulus package is fueling
growth in  South America ’s fastest growing economy. The central
bank raised  reserve requirements  Oct. 1 for a second straight
month to prevent domestic demand fueling inflation that has been
above its target range for 15 months.  “Construction is the motor of the economy,” said Hedmond Rios, an economist at Celfin Capital, in a phone interview from
Santiago.  “I wouldn’t be surprised to see the bank increase
reserve requirements again in a bid to slow credit expansion.”  The bank is tightening  money supply  after credit growth
expanded 17 percent in August, the strongest pace in five
months, amid rising consumer demand and private investment.  Consumer prices rose 0.54 percent in September, the fastest
pace in six months, which pushed the annual rate up to 3.74
percent. The central bank targets annual inflation of 2 percent
plus or minus 1 percentage point.  Construction activity jumped 18 percent in August while
export demand for textiles and furniture fueled a 4.1 percent
gain in manufacturing, compared with a 0.8 percent gain in the
first eight months of this year, the agency said.  The sol was little changed at 2.5850 per U.S dollar at
10:54 a.m. in  Lima , according to Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit.  The  unemployment rate  in Lima fell to 6.6 percent last
month, compared with 6.7 percent in August, the agency said in a
separate report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  