-- Philippines Signs Peace Accord With Rebels, Seeks Investment
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2012-10-15T07:59:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/philippines-signs-peace-accord-with-rebels-seeks-investment-1-.html
Philippine President Benigno Aquino
signed a peace deal today with Muslim guerrillas after deadly
attacks underscored the obstacles to ending a 40-year insurgency
that has blocked investment in the country’s mineral-rich south.  About 200 members of the rebel group Moro Islamic
Liberation Front led by Chairman Al Haj Murad Ebrahim traveled
to  Manila  to witness the signing. In the past week, suspected
rebel attacks in the south killed at least five people,
including three soldiers.  “We commit to peace,” Aquino said as he stood alongside
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak, who helped broker the
talks. “Much work needs to be done to fully reap the fruits of
this framework agreement.”  The new accord provides the best chance since 2008 to quell
a rebellion that has killed as many as 200,000 and blocked
companies from tapping mineral deposits worth an estimated $312
billion. Aquino is pushing to end death squads, clan wars and
kidnappings by al-Qaeda-affiliated militants as he pursues an
investment-grade credit rating and faster economic growth.  “Achieving a lasting peace will take time and cannot
happen overnight,” said  Euben Paracuelles , a Singapore-based
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “The peace pact is a crucial
step that changes perception on Mindanao and adds to the
positive sentiment on the Philippines.”  $1 Billion  The Philippines is targeting $1 billion of investments in
the southern island of Mindanao following the peace agreement,
Board of Investments head Cristino Panlilio said today. The
government has been talking with at least five Asian and
European companies planning to invest in the nation’s palm oil,
mango, pineapple and banana industries, he said.  Other militant groups such as Communist insurgents in the
New People’s Army may yet pose a risk for companies in the area.
Earlier this year it claimed responsibility for 600 attacks
since 2010, including against  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the world’s fourth-
biggest copper miner, and  Sumitomo Metal Mining Co. (5713) ,  Japan ’s
biggest nickel producer.  “This is a victory earned not by war, but by a collective
desire to restore justice and peace to a troubled land,”
Murad said today. “After almost 16 years of hard negotiations
and confrontations on the ground we have inked the most
important document in the chapter of our history.”  Murad and Aquino exchanged gifts earlier today. About 500
people who traveled from Mindanao held a peace vigil overnight
outside the palace, organizers said.  Attacks  “In confronting their differences and finding common
ground, both sides have given something,” Najib said. “But the
people of the Southern  Philippines  have gained everything.”  The police raised the nation’s security to full alert last
week after it received an intelligence report that disgruntled
Muslim rebels may have been behind the recent attacks.  Two days ago, three soldiers were shot and killed in the
southern province of Basilan, according to the military, while
police seized firearms, explosives and ammunition in a raid on a
mining site in nearby Zamboanga del Sur. Two people were killed
after a bomb exploded in Cagayan de Oro City, also in the
nation’s south, on Oct. 11., which authorities said may be
connected to blasts in Zamboanga province the previous day.  The peace accord under Aquino provides a road map for a
political entity called the Bangsamoro that will replace the
failed Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao, or ARMM, set up in
1989. The 11,000-strong Moro Islamic Liberation Front, or MILF,
must abandon its pursuit of a separate state in return for more
power, revenue and territory under a bill that needs to be
passed by Congress and approved by a local referendum.  Going Hungry  Catholic settlers outnumber the Muslim population by about
five-to-one in Mindanao, home to about a quarter of the
country’s 100 million people. About a third of Mindanao’s people
said they had nothing to eat for at least one day in the three
months to August, the highest rate among the nation’s three main
regions, according to a survey by Manila-based polling company
Social Weather Stations released Oct. 1.  The al-Qaeda-linked Abu Sayyaf may be responsible for the
Oct. 13 attack in Basilan to “agitate” the military and
disrupt security, Captain Alberto Caber, spokesman for the 1st
infantry division based in Lambangan, Zamboanga del Sur
province, said by phone.  “There are groups that are not comfortable with the
framework agreement and this means the problem will go on and
on,” Rommel Banlaoi, executive director of the Philippine
Institute for Peace, Violence and Terrorism Research in Manila,
said in a telephone interview.  Failed Accord  In 2008, after the Supreme Court in August 2008 ordered an
injunction on a draft agreement between the government of ex-
President Gloria Arroyo and the MILF that would have created a
Muslim homeland, fighting between troops and renegade rebels
forced about 390,000 Mindanao residents from their homes and
left 100 civilians dead. The court declared the accord
unconstitutional two months later.  Nur Misuari, chairman of the Moro National Liberation Front
a splinter rebel group, told DZMM radio today that MILF members
were traitors for agreeing to lay down their arms while saying
he wouldn’t start a war in the southern Philippines. He called
the peace deal a conspiracy between the Philippines and  Malaysia 
so the latter can keep Sabah and Sarawak, which he said belonged
to his great grandfather.  “This deal is a good first step toward peace and probably
better than those negotiated before,” Benito Lim, a political
science professor from the Ateneo de Manila University, said by
phone. “Aquino listened to the Muslim insurgents and agreed to
try his best to give them what they want.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  