-- Portugal Debt Agency Will Seek to Boost Volume Before Bond Sales
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2012-10-15T14:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/portugal-debt-agency-will-seek-to-boost-volume-before-bond-sales.html
Portugal ’s government debt agency
aims to increase the volume of trading in its bonds before
resuming sales of longer-maturity debt.  Total bond trading declined to an average 12 million euros
($15.5 million) a day last month, from 38 million euros a year
earlier and 204 million euros in September 2010, according to
the debt agency. While Portugal has continued selling bills, it
hasn’t auctioned bonds since requesting a bailout in April 2011.  “The next step that we should focus on is to regain
liquidity in our markets,” Joao Moreira Rato, chairman of the
debt agency IGCP, said in a Bloomberg Television interview with
Guy Johnson. “We shouldn’t rush into doing a transaction before
liquidity conditions in our markets are getting better. We need
to get the market ready to absorb bigger volumes. We will only
move when we are ready and we don’t have to rush.”  Portugal aims to regain access to bond markets by September
2013 and Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  has said if the
country can’t do that for “external reasons,” it would be able
to count on continued support from the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund.  The debt agency on Oct. 3 exchanged 3.76 billion euros of
securities due in September 2013 for the same value of notes
maturing in October 2015, reducing its repayment burden for next
year.  “We will continue to do exchanges if we can,” Moreira
Rato said in the interview from New York.  Private Placement  Portugal has to fund the repayment of the September 2013
securities without relying on the EU-led rescue program, which
extends until the middle of 2014.  Moreira Rato said this month the debt agency is also
looking out for opportunities to sell bonds directly to
investors. The IGCP is planning to auction as much as 5.75
billion euros of bills with maturities of as much as 18 months
in auctions during the fourth quarter.  Portuguese bond yields have dropped this year as the
government raises taxes to comply with the terms of the 78
billion-euro aid plan from the EU and the IMF. Borrowing costs
fell to the lowest since 2010 when the nation sold 1.29 billion
euros of 18-month bills on Sept. 19. The extra yield investors
demand to hold Portugal’s  10-year bonds  instead of German bunds
has narrowed to 6.58 percentage points from a record 16.48
percentage points on Jan. 31.  Junk Rating  Standard & Poor’s cut Portugal’s credit rating to non-
investment grade, or junk, in January, following Fitch Ratings
and Moody’s Investors Service.  The IMF, the European Commission and the European Central
Bank said in a joint statement on Sept. 11 that Portugal’s  debt 
will peak below 124 percent of gross domestic product and
“remains sustainable and will be on a firm downward trajectory
after 2014.”  Portugal is aiming to reduce its deficit to 5 percent of
GDP in 2012 instead of the previous goal of 4.5 percent, Finance
Minister Vitor Gaspar said on Sept. 11 after EU and IMF
officials agreed on the new targets.  The government projects GDP will shrink 1 percent in 2013
after contracting 3 percent this year. Economic growth has
averaged less than 1 percent a year for the  past decade , placing
Portugal among  Europe ’s weakest performers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  