-- Deadly Meningitis Outbreak Tied to More Drugs, FDA Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-10-15T19:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/possible-meningitis-infection-linked-to-second-product-fda-says.html
A second steroid manufactured by New
England Compounding Center has been linked to another potential
meningitis infection, U.S. regulators said.  A different steroid, methylprednisolone acetate, used as an
injection for back pain from the Framingham, Massachusetts-based
pharmacy has been tied to a fungal meningitis outbreak that has
led to  214 infections  in 15 U.S. states, killing 15 people.  The second steroid, triamcinolone acetonide, is used to
treat skin conditions that result in itching, redness, dryness,
and inflammation, according to the  National Institutes of
Health . The patients received the medication through an epidural
injection. Transplant patients have also experienced fungal
infections after being given a drug from the pharmacy meant to
induce cardiac muscle paralysis during open-heart surgery, the
 Food and Drug Administration  said.  “Patients who received these products should be alerted to
the potential risk of infection,” the FDA said today on its
 website . “The sterility of any injectable drugs, including
ophthalmic drugs that are injectable or used in conjunction with
eye surgery, and cardioplegic solutions produced by NECC are of
significant concern.”  There haven’t been any cases of infections reported in
connection with ophthalmic drugs, the FDA said.  NECC recalled all of its products Oct. 6. The company also
has ceased operations.  The states where infections have occurred are: Florida,
 Idaho , Illinois, Indiana, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, New
Hampshire,  New Jersey ,  North Carolina , Ohio, Pennsylvania,
Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. About 14,000 who received
methylprednisolone acetate may be at risk for meningitis. The
fungal meningitis associated with the outbreak isn’t contagious,
CDC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  