-- Prasarn Says Thai Consumption Compensating for Export Slowdown
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-10-15T09:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/prasarn-says-thai-consumption-compensating-for-export-slowdown.html
Bank of Thailand  Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul comments on the impact of the global slowdown on
the nation’s economy, inflation and the central bank’s
deliberations before deciding on  interest rates . He spoke in an
Oct. 13 interview in  Tokyo .  On the impact of the global slowdown on Thailand:  “We are not immune. The first half was exceeding our
expectations in terms of recovering from the floods but in the
second half, there are already signs of moderation, particularly
on the exports side. Exports are coming down but domestic demand
is still very strong to compensate.  ‘‘For exports, the direct impact from the euro zone
developments is not that big because we only export 10 percent
of our total exports to  Europe  and the exports items are not as
sensitive to the conditions. But the indirect impact is
significant. We trade a lot with our Asian partners and they
also trade with the  euro zone  so the slowdown in  China , the
slowdown in other Asean economies, it has some bearing on our
total exports. So the export figure will come down quite
significantly.  ‘‘But domestic demand so far is very strong caused by
domestic consumption and investment. Consumption partly because
of the higher income generated by general good conditions in
employment and partly by some stimulating packages by the
government. Investment in the first half certainly was very
strong by reconstruction and restoration from the flood. We will
monitor whether this momentum will carry on.’’  ‘‘We still have a growth rate’’ forecast ‘‘of 5.7 percent
for the whole year.’’  On inflation:  ‘‘It is quite benign, both from demand and cost-push. The
latest forecast for headline for the whole year is 2.9 percent
and core is about 2.2 percent. That’s within our target. At the
moment, we still use the core range of 0.5 percent to 3
percent.’’  On risks to Thailand:  ‘‘The situation in the world economy is top of the agenda
because the Thai economy is an open one. There are repercussions
in the financial markets with capital flows. At times with these
news, there could be some volatility in the  capital markets , the
foreign exchange market, and we also anticipate and we also
observe there is volatility in capital flows into the Thai
market. Our current assessment is it’s not as serious as in 2010
because at that time we had quite a significant surplus in the
current account.’’  On asset bubble risks:  There are ‘‘no alarming signs yet although the Thai stock
market is one of the best performers in the region but there is
fundamental support because corporate earnings were so good.’’  In ‘‘real estate, we are monitoring but no alarming
signs.’’  ‘‘The baht has no serious pressure because one very
successful measure we introduced two years ago and produced
results is the encouragement of Thai businesses and individuals
to invest overseas.’’  The baht’s gains have not been ‘‘drastic and within the
range of 2 to 3 percent appreciation,’’ and there has been ‘‘no
intervention at all from the central bank.’’  There are no signs of asset bubbles ‘‘but we are not
complacent.’’  On whether the Thai economy needs monetary stimulus:  Policy makers will consider the magnitude of the impact of
the global slowdown on the Thai economy and credit growth when
deciding to cut interest rates, Prasarn said.  At the last MPC meeting, ‘‘one interesting point was about
credit extension and the behavior of banks. They compete for
deposits, they keep on introducing attractive deposit rates.’’  The majority of MPC members ‘‘said if you cut the policy
rate, it’s not going to be transmitted because they are
competing for deposits because credit extension is still very
high.  ‘‘When you introduce any cut in the policy rate, you have
to be quite confident that the intermediary or the market will
transmit your policy rate.  ‘‘At the moment, we don’t observe any  risk premium 
generated in the Thai market. In other words, we don’t see
necessity at the moment to use monetary policy to restore
confidence because the market is already quite confident.  ‘‘At this time, we don’t observe any signs’’ that
confidence is low.  ‘‘If the slowdown in the world markets curb exports to the
level that Thai businesses’’ suffer, that’s when ‘‘you have to
step in. Exports this year will slow down somewhat, so we are
watching on that.’’  ‘‘At this time, all these indicators, indexes, point to
really balanced conditions. You have headline inflation of 2.9
percent and a policy rate of 3 percent. It’s very balanced. You
look at the potential growth and the actual growth. It’s on
balance. You looked at inflation pressures, very benign. In
other words, you are running at full potential. We are now at a
sweet spot.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  