-- Qatar Looks Favorably on Glencore-Xstrata Deal, Premier Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-10-15T16:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/qatar-pm-says-looking-in-favor-of-glencore-merger-with-xstrata.html
Qatari Prime Minister  Sheikh Hamad 
bin Jassim Al Thani, whose country’s sovereign fund owns 12
percent of  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , said the Gulf state looks favorably on
 Glencore International Plc’s (GLEN)  sweetened bid for the Swiss miner.  “We’re looking in favor of doing something between the two
companies,” Sheikh Hamad told reporters today in Doha, in
response to a question on whether Qatar supports Baar,
Switzerland-based Glencore’s $32 billion offer.  A recommendation by Qatar may bring Glencore’s billionaire
Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg closer to combining the
two commodity companies in this year’s largest takeover. The
transaction, five years in the making, would couple Glencore’s
trading operations with Xstrata’s coal, copper and zinc mines,
creating a group with 130,000 employees in more than 40 nations.  Xstrata, the world’s largest exporter of coal burned by
power stations, on Oct. 1 recommended Glencore’s increased
offer. Glencore on Sept. 7 raised its bid to 3.05 of its shares
for each one in Zug-based Xstrata after Qatar Holding said the
original proposal of 2.8 shares made in February was too low.  Shareholders with as little as a combined 16.5 percent of
Xstrata would be able to block the deal. U.K. takeover rules
prevent Glencore from voting its 34 percent  Xstrata stake  to
decide if the deal proceeds, which requires 75 percent approval.  Xstrata is still to set a new date for the vote, postponed
on Sept. 7 when Glencore, the world’s biggest publicly traded
commodities supplier, increased its offer.  Shares Decline  Xstrata declined 0.2 percent to 952 pence by the close in
London trading after gaining as much as 1.2 percent following
Hamad’s comments. Glencore advanced less than 0.1 percent.  Qatar is considering buying a stake in  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s
commodities unit, Sheikh Hamad also said. “We need a few weeks
to look at the details, but we are looking at it seriously,” he
said, asked whether Qatar was studying the unit.  Morgan Stanley, the sixth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, held
talks this year with private-equity firms including  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  as it studied options for the unit because banks are
barred from some trading under the so-called Volcker rule,
people familiar with the company’s deliberations said in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  