-- Qatar Weighs Stake in Morgan Stanley Commodities Unit
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-10-15T15:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/qatar-weighs-stake-in-morgan-stanley-commodities-unit.html
Qatar, the Persian Gulf country
seeking to reduce its dependence on gas reserves, is weighing a
potential stake in  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s commodities unit, Prime
Minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim Al Thani said.  “We need a few weeks to look at the details, but we are
looking at it seriously,” he told reporters today in Doha in
response to a question about Qatar’s interest.  Morgan Stanley has been considering options for its
commodities business, run by Colin Bryce and  Simon Greenshields ,
both 56, amid new rules and a pledge by Chief Executive Officer
James Gorman to shrink the fixed-income and commodity trading
division to help improve returns. The Volcker rule would impair
banks’ ability to provide commodity-related hedging and
financing services as currently written, Greenshields wrote in a
comment letter to regulators in February.  The commodities business, which includes trading in futures
contracts and buying and selling physical commodities, generated
about $1.5 billion in annual revenue the past two years,  Kian Abouhossein , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst, estimated in a
March note.  Morgan Stanley and Qatar may also be seeking benefits from
information sharing. Qatar is the world’s top exporter of
liquefied natural gas and a member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, which supplies 40 percent of the
world’s oil. Morgan Stanley owns TransMontaigne Inc., a fuel
distributor based in Denver, and a 49 percent stake in Darien,
Connecticut-based ship operator Heidmar Inc.  Private-Equity Talks  “It is huge intelligence that both can benefit from,”
said John Kilduff, a partner at Again Capital LLC, a  New York- 
based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “The Qataris have
visibility in the global oil market with demand trends and what
they’re hearing from their direct purchasers. Similarly, Morgan
Stanley’s unit has visibility downstream in the U.S. for refined
products and other economic indicators.”  Morgan Stanley, the sixth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, held
talks earlier this year with private-equity firms including
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  as it considered options for the unit,
people familiar with the New York-based company’s deliberations
told Bloomberg News in June.  Mary Claire Delaney, a Morgan Stanley spokeswoman, declined
to comment.  Qatar Holding LLC, an investment arm of the Qatar’s
sovereign-wealth fund, is interested in investing in
commodities, board member Hussain Al Abdulla said in April. The
fund  owned 12 percent  of  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  as of Aug. 29 and Qatar’s
prime minister said today his country looks favorably on
 Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s sweetened bid for the Swiss miner.  ‘New Investor’  “Because of the financial crises, people are not investing
enough in commodities,” Sheikh Hamad said. “That might create
a gap between 2016 and 2017 and might push the price even
higher.”  While new rules will increase the capital needed for the
commodities business, Morgan Stanley won’t seek to shrink the
unit because it’s central to the bank’s trading strategy, Chief
Financial Officer Ruth Porat said in July. Still, the company
may succeed in structuring a partial sale so that it transfers
some assets to the buyer and reduces capital needs, said Shannon
Stemm, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co.  “They don’t want to lose that commodities-trading
expertise, but it wouldn’t surprise us if they introduced a new
investor there, because they’re trying to focus on the less
asset-intensive businesses,” Stemm said.  Exit Strategy  A deal also would give Morgan Stanley a strategy to exit
the business if the Volcker rule, a Dodd-Frank Act provision
that limits banks from making bets with customer deposits, turns
out to be stricter than the firm anticipates, Kilduff said.  Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which
previously dominated commodities trading among Wall Street
banks, have lost ground to New York-based JPMorgan and London-
based Barclays Plc, according to a survey of corporate treasury
officials by Greenwich Associates that was published in March.  The study found that JPMorgan and Barclays tied Goldman
Sachs and surpassed Morgan Stanley in the share of clients who
use them for over-the-counter energy derivatives trades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Tuttle in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  