-- South Africa Yields Rise as Rand Falls on S&P, Growth Concerns
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-10-15T13:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/rand-falls-second-day-as-s-p-downgrade-raises-deficit-concerns.html
South African yields rose and the
rand declined for a second day after  Standard & Poor’s  cut  South
Africa ’s credit rating, citing concern that a wave of strikes in
the  mining industry  is placing pressure on  government spending .  Yields on 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 jumped five basis
points to 6.79 percent at 3:41 p.m. in Johannesburg. The premium
investors demand to hold the debt rather than U.S. Treasuries
climbed two basis points to 509. The rand traded 0.9 percent
weaker at 8.8054 per dollar, after sliding 0.8 percent on Oct.
12 when the S&P announcement was made.  S&P lowered the rating of the continent’s biggest economy
one level to BBB with a negative outlook. Continuing strikes in
the mining industry are having a “significant” impact on an
economy already struggling to cope with Europe’s debt crisis,
President  Jacob Zuma  said last week. Moody’s Investors Service
last month reduced South Africa’s debt rating for the first time
since apartheid to Baa1, one level above S&P’s latest rating.  “It is clear that a lack of fiscal room is at the center
of the concerns the  ratings agencies  have,” Quinten Bertenshaw,
a Johannesburg-based analyst at ETM Analytics, said in a note e-
mailed to clients. “Bonds are under tremendous pressure” and
“the vulnerability of the rand is now higher than it has been
in the past 12 months,” he added.  Foreign investors  sold  a net 1.5 billion rand ($171
million) of South African bonds last week, paring purchases this
year to 82.4 billion rand. South Africa needs monthly portfolio
inflows of about 16 billion rand to sustain its current account
deficit, which widened to 6.4 percent of gross domestic product
in the second quarter, according to Standard Bank Group Ltd.  Growth Forecasts  The South African Reserve Bank will review its growth
forecasts after the S&P downgrade, Deputy Governor Daniel
Mminele said yesterday. The central bank cut the nation’s growth
forecast to 2.6 percent on Sept. 20 from 2.7 percent and Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said he will do the same on Oct. 25 when
he presents the mid-term budget to Parliament in Cape Town. GDP
expanded 3.1 percent last year.  The rand extended its decline as commodity prices fell on
concern the global economy is weakening. Emerging nations
including China,  Brazil  and  India  will grow at 5.8 percent in
the half-decade through 2016, almost two percentage points less
than the five years before the 2009 slump, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  ‘Risk Aversion’  The S&P GSCI Index of raw materials fell 0.4 percent today.
Metals and other commodities account for 45 percent of South
Africa’s exports, according to government data.  “Concerns over the outlook for global growth increased
 risk aversion  and added to the headwinds the local unit is
facing,”  John Cairns  and Josina Solomons, currency strategists
at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed
comments. “Commodities remain under pressure amid a
deteriorating global outlook.”  The rand’s one-month implied volatility against the dollar
rose 45 basis points to 17 percent, indicating that options
traders see wider swings in the currency in coming weeks.  The cost of insuring the nation’s dollar debt against
default using credit default swaps rose three basis points to
160, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent if the government fails to adhere to its
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  