-- Ravens Lose Ray Lewis, Lardarius Webb for Rest of NFL Season
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-10-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/ravens-linebacker-ray-lewis-is-out-for-season-with-torn-triceps.html
Ray Lewis’s 17-year National
Football League career may be in jeopardy because of a season-
ending arm injury, while his Baltimore Ravens teammate Lardarius Webb will miss the rest of the campaign with a damaged knee.  Linebacker Lewis, 37, tore the triceps muscle in his right
arm while trying to tackle Dallas Cowboys running back Phillip Tanner in the fourth quarter of the Ravens’ 31-29 win two days
ago, Baltimore coach John Harbaugh told reporters yesterday.  Webb, a 27-year-old cornerback, tore the anterior cruciate
ligament in his left knee when he collided with Cowboys wide
receiver Dez Bryant during the first quarter.  “I feel great about our guys’ chances to fill in,”
Harbaugh said of the 5-1 team’s depth. “That’s going to define
what we’re going to be able to accomplish this year.”  Lewis has been selected as a first-team All-Pro seven times,
most recently for 2009. He was twice was the NFL’s Defensive
Player of the Year and was chosen as the Super Bowl Most
Valuable Player after the 2000 season. His 226 starts are second
among active players behind Atlanta Falcons tight end Tony Gonzalez.  Harbaugh said he wouldn’t comment on the possibility that
Lewis’s injury will end his career.  “That’s for Ray to speak on,” Harbaugh said. “I’m
looking forward to see what he says about that.”  Lewis has a team-leading 57 total tackles and one sack this
season for the Ravens, who lead the American Football Conference
North Division by two games over the Cincinnati Bengals (3-3).  A four-year veteran, Webb has one interception and six
passes defensed this season. After intercepting five passes
during the 2011 season, he added three more in two playoff games.
The nine total pickoffs since the start of the 2011 campaign are
tied for the most in the NFL.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  