-- Read This Before You Hold Your Wine Tasting: John Mariani
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2012-10-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/read-this-before-you-hold-your-wine-tasting-john-mariani.html
I once knew a wine writer (always
with a buzz on) who exulted that he’d tasted his way through 120
wines at an international exposition.  Now, my job as a wine
writer has its joys, but tasting my way through 120 wines, or
even 80 wines, about par for a judge at a wine competition, is
not one of them.  Such a slog is not only hard work but palate fatigue sets
in early, so that the 46th wine you taste is never going to have
quite the luster of the third, and by number 75, you are in
agony and in need of a shower.  Still, the idea of holding your own wine tasting at home or
in a restaurant can be one of the most convivial of pleasures,
as long as you go about it the right way, starting with whom you
invite.  Basically, there are three kinds of people who drink wine:
those who kind of like it, those who truly love it, and those
who regard it as a study in one-upmanship.  Only the second type is any fun at a wine tasting,
especially if you’re going to be serving some expensive wines
that the first group will shrug at and the third will sniff and
go into discourses about wine pH levels and vineyard trellising
techniques.  Six Wines  Once you’ve chosen your jolly group (please skip the black
tie request!), there are certain guidelines that make such
tastings a great deal of fun.  Never serve more than six wines. Fewer is hardly worth the
effort and more becomes a bore.  Will it be a blind tasting? If so, cover the bottles with a
paper bag to hide the labels, making sure the shape of the
bottle is not evident. (Pinot noirs and rieslings always come in
distinctively shaped bottles.) Number them and keep the list out
of sight.  If it’s not a blind tasting, rather than have a random
selection of wines, choose one region, say Tuscany, or a single
estate, like Jordan cabernet. If the former, a horizontal
tasting of a single vintage will give interesting insight into
the differences of wines from the same region; if the latter,
have a vertical tasting, that is, from different vintages of the
same wine.  Use standard wineglasses for all the wines and pour only
about an ounce or so to begin with. Later your guests can enjoy
whatever they like most.  Palate Cleanser  Have plain water available to help cleanse the palate
between wines. Crackers or bread are also traditionally
provided, chosen because their blandness does not interfere with
the wine flavors.  But I believe it is much better to serve crackers like
Saltines or focaccia whose salt works as salt always does, to
perk up flavors. I’ve also found that a little fat, along with
the salt, brings out much more depth in wines you taste, so put
a sheer amount of salted butter, or olive oil, on the bread. It
works wonders.  If you are serving the wines with dinner, and I heartily
recommend you do, keep the food very, very simple, like mild
cheese, chicken broth, a steak, or, if you’re tasting white
wines, fillet of fish.  Food Mandatory  You might have guests taste all the wines prior to dinner
(remember, you’re only sampling six), then match them with the
meal. For the real point of tasting wines is that they go best
with food, and with few exceptions, aren’t worth much without
it. Even a glass of Champagne deserves at least a canape.  During the discussion, try to keep the conversation lively
(remember, you didn’t invite the wine snobs to lecture anyone),
and it’s a capital idea to have a few choice observations from
great writers handy for toasts, like Lord Byron’s “Let us have
wine and women, mirth and laughter, sermons and soda-water the
day after.”  Finally, print out the names of all the wines for guests to
take home. And finish every drop of wine you open.  (John Mariani writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Jeremy Gerard on  theater  and Andrew
Dunn on  books .  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 