-- Treasuries Trade in Tightest Range in 2 Weeks as Fed Buys
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-10-15T21:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/treasuries-hold-gain-fischer-says-world-near-recession.html
Treasuries traded in the tightest
range in two weeks as Federal Reserve efforts to depress long-
term interest rates limited a rise in yields even after a report
showed September retail sales beat forecasts.  Yields on the benchmark  10-year note , which increased for
the first time in five days, pared advances after the Fed bought
$5 billion of Treasuries maturing from October 2018 and August
2020 in an effort to reduce borrowing costs and counter
recession risks. U.S. government debt rose earlier after Bank of
Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said the world is “awfully
close” to recession, as he backed the Fed’s increase in bond
purchases.  “The market is trading as if it refuses to fight the
Fed,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond strategist at CRT
Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “While we had a
better-then-expected retails sales report, the market seemed
unable to find any directional bias. Volumes were on the light
side.”  The benchmark 10-year  note yield  rose one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 1.66 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
after dropping nine basis points last week, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield traded within a range of
four basis points, the least since Oct. 1 and the seventh
tightest this year. The 1.625 percent security due in August
2022 fell 2/32, or 63 cents $1,000 face value, to 99 21/32.  Retail sales  in the U.S. rose 1.1 percent last month after
a revised 1.2 percent increase in August that was the biggest
since October 2010 and larger than previously reported, Commerce
Department figures showed today in  Washington . The median
forecast of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.8
percent rise.  Fed Buying  “The data is across-the-board better than expected,” said
Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist in  New York  at Mizuho
Securities USA, Inc., one of 21 primary dealers that trade
Treasuries with the Fed. “We’ve been in the same trading range
for the last couple of weeks. We’ll remain in the same trading
range, 1.65 percent to 1.75 percent.”  The Fed purchased Treasuries as part of its program known
as Operation Twist, in which it is replacing $267 billion of
short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries.  The Fed announced Sept. 13 it will keep its main interest
rate at almost zero until at least mid-2015 and buy $40 billion
of mortgage debt every month under its quantitative-easing
program in an effort to stimulate economic growth and create
jobs. The U.S. unemployment rate unexpectedly fell to 7.8
percent last month.  Volatility, Volume  The so-called break-even  rate , which measures how much
traders anticipate consumer prices will rise over the life of
the debt, for 30-year securities was 2.44 percentage points
after touching 2.42 percentage points on Oct. 12, the lowest
since Oct. 1.  Volatility reached 63 basis points as of 4:40 p.m. in New
York, below this year’s average of 72.6 basis points. Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE index , which measures price swings
based on options, touched 57.5 basis points on Sept. 19, the
least since May 7. The average over the past decade is 102.1
basis points.  Treasury  volume  reported by ICAP Plc, the largest inter-
dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , dropped to $175 billion
in New York, from $195 billion on Oct. 12. It has averaged $242
billion in 2012. It touched a high this year of $464 billion in
September.  The U.S. will sell $7 billion in 30-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities on Oct. 18. At the previous auction of the
debt on June 21, the U.S. sold $7 billion of the securities at a
record low yield of 0.520 percent.  ‘Pretty Slow’  Treasuries declined as Fischer said in an interview in
 Tokyo  with Bloomberg Television airing today that, while there
has been “a lot of progress made” to improve the global
economy, its impact hasn’t materialized.  “It’s pretty slow right now,” he said. “ Europe  is
technically in a recession, the U.S. is predicting less than 2
percent growth for the next few months.”  The 10-year term premium, a model created by economists at
the Fed that includes expectations for  interest rates , growth
and inflation, was negative 0.89 percent today, the least
expensive since Oct. 8. A negative reading indicates investors
are willing to accept yields below what’s considered fair value.
The average for the past 10 years is 0.44 percent. The all-time
low was negative 1.02 percent on July 24.  Debt Demand  Yields indicate growing demand for debt outside the
Treasury market.  The  difference  between two-year  interest-rate swaps  and
same-maturity Treasury yields narrowed to as little as 10.5
basis points on Oct. 12, the least since March 2010.  Investors use swaps to exchange fixed and floating
interest-rate obligations. The spread between the fixed
component and the Treasury rate narrows as demand for higher-
yielding assets increases.  “The market is waiting for November,” said Justin Lederer, an interest-rate strategist at primary dealer Cantor
Fitzgerald LP in New York. “We expect volatility to pick up.
We’ll see how the elections work out -- investors will be a
little bit more focused.”  The idea that Democrats are big spenders and bad for bonds
while Republicans are deficit hawks is being turned on its head
in the $10.8 trillion market for U.S. Treasury securities.  Johnson, Goldwater  Ever since  Lyndon B. Johnson  defeated  Barry Goldwater  for
the presidency in 1964, yields on 10-year Treasuries have
dropped about 40 basis points in the first month when a Democrat
wins, and risen 19 after a Republican victory, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. When applied to the $264 billion in 10-
year notes issued in fiscal 2012, the difference means $15.6
billion in interest costs over the life of the debt.  This year’s race for the White House between President
 Barack Obama  and Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  comes as the
U.S. faces $1.2 trillion in mandated spending cuts and tax
increases starting Jan. 1 if Congress can’t agree to reduce the
deficit, which totaled $1.09 trillion in fiscal 2012.  Economic output would shrink by 0.5 percent next year, and
joblessness climb to about 9 percent if the so-called fiscal
cliff isn’t averted, the  Congressional Budget Office  said.  “It’s the natural expectation that Democrats would be less
business-friendly and less positive” for equities, Brett Rose,
an interest-rate strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York who
has researched elections and their impact on bonds, said in a
telephone interview Oct. 9.  That’s “consistent with yields going lower. Republicans
are more business-friendly, which leads to higher equity prices
and higher Treasury yields,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  