-- Red Rock to Boost Kenya Stake, Sees Large-Scale Gold Output 2016
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-10-15T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/red-rock-to-boost-kenya-stake-sees-large-scale-gold-output-2016.html
Red Rock Resources Plc. (RRR) , a U.K. gold
exploration and mining company, said it will increase its stake
in the Migori project in  Kenya  and expects “large-scale”
production at the site to start by 2016.  Red Rock will raise its stake in Mid Migori Mining, a
closely held Kenyan company, to 75 percent from 15 percent by
financing a feasibility study for a gold mine, Chief Executive
Officer Andrew Bell said in an interview on Oct. 12. Initial
findings indicate the mine may produce as much as 50,000 ounces
in the first three to four years, he said in an interview in
Nairobi, Kenya’s capital.  “We have found the right type of things happening there,
we have identified the areas where there are high gold grades,”
Bell said. “Realistically we are looking at 2015 or 2016 for
serious production on a large scale.”  Kenya has deposits of metals including gold, copper and
zinc and is  Africa ’s biggest producer of soda ash, which is used
to make glass, according to the  U.S. Geological Survey ’s
website. Mining accounts for 0.8 percent of the country’s $32
billion economy, according to the  African Development Bank .  Red Rock acquired its stake in Mid Migori in 2009. Since
then, the company has invested more than $10 million in the
project, situated 264 kilometers (164 miles) west of Nairobi,
Bell said. Most of the expenditure has been on drilling, data
collection and a scoping study. The company applied to the
Kenyan government last month for a mining lease and will start a
feasibility study “soon,” Bell said.  Zambia Copper  The company already has interests in a rare-earth project
in Malawi, agro-minerals such as phosphate in  Sudan  and
manganese in  South Africa , Bell said. The company is also keen
on pursuing copper exploration in  Zambia , Africa’s biggest
producer of the metal, he said.  Red Rock welcomed Kenya’s proposed legislation for the
 mining industry , which among other things stipulates that a
minimum of 35 percent of the project is domestically owned, with
5 percent of royalties going to local communities and 15 percent
to county governments.  “The idea of making sure some benefits from mining go to
county level, national level and local communities is a good one
as it addresses one of the grievances of mining communities
around the world that very often it is the national government
that takes all the benefit,” Bell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  