-- Reliance Profit Falls for a Fourth Quarter on Gas Output
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-10-15T14:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/reliance-second-quarter-profit-declines-5-7-matches-estimates.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ,  India ’s
biggest company by market value, reported a fourth straight
quarter of lower profit after natural-gas production from the
nation’s biggest field declined.  Net income  declined 5.7 percent to 53.8 billion rupees ($1
billion), or 16.6 rupees a share, in the three months ended
Sept. 30, the Mumbai-based company said in an e-mailed statement
today. That matched the  median estimate  of 28 analysts compiled
by Bloomberg, which was 53.7 billion rupees. Net sales rose 15
percent to 903.4 billion rupees.  Reliance’s billionaire Chairman  Mukesh Ambani  is betting on
the world’s biggest refining complex to counter a slump in
production from its natural-gas deposit that led profit to
decline for four quarters in a row. The company plans to spend 1
trillion rupees in the next five years to improve refinery
operations, build chemical plants and start telecommunications
services.  “Raising gas production continues to be a challenge for
Reliance,” said Juergen Maier, a Vienna-based  fund manager  at
Raiffeisen Capital Management that oversees about $1.1 billion
of emerging-market assets, including Indian stocks. “Refining
margins are picking up around the world and that benefits
Reliance too.”  Share Performance  Reliance has increased 19 percent this year, compared with
a 21 percent gain in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)  The shares
rose 0.5 percent to 823.05 rupees at the close today, before the
earnings were announced. Profit in the quarter rose 20 percent
from the previous three months.  The company earned $9.5 for every barrel of crude it turned
into fuels in the quarter, compared with $10.1 a barrel a year
earlier and $7.6 in the previous three months ended June 30.
Profit from turning Dubai crude into diesel in  Singapore , an
Asian benchmark, averaged $18.72 a barrel in the three months
ended Sept. 30, higher than $18 a year before, according to data
from PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a London-based crude and refined-
products broker.  High-Value Products  Brent crude , a benchmark oil price used by much of the
world, has increased 6.3 percent this year. The November
contract fell 0.4 percent to $114.19 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange as of 2:48 p.m. local time.  Reliance’s two adjacent refineries at Jamnagar in the
western Indian state of Gujarat have the capacity to process
1.24 million barrels of crude a day. The plants are capable of
turning cheap, low-quality crude oil in to high-value products.  The company had cash and equivalents of 791.6 billion
rupees and 700.6 billion rupees of outstanding debt as of Sept.
30, according to the statement. The cash is invested in fixed
deposits, mutual funds and  government bonds .  Combustible Gas  The company is spending $8 billion to boost petrochemical
capacity and $4 billion on a plant to make combustible gas to
power its refineries, according to an April 20 presentation on
its website.  Gas production from the KG-D6 block in the  Bay of Bengal 
declined 35 percent to 197 billion cubic feet in the six months
ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier, according to today’s
statement. The drop was because of reservoir complexity and a
natural decline in output, according to the statement.  The continuous decline in gas production has made analysts
the most bearish on the company’s stock in three years. The
consensus rating, or the average of recommendations updated by
analysts in the past year, dropped to 3.25. Five denotes a buy
and one a sell, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Falling Reserves  The company reduced its estimate of reserves at all its gas
fields by 6.7 percent to 104 billion cubic meters, or 3.7
trillion cubic feet, as of March 31, according to its  annual
report .  Niko Resources Ltd. (NKO) , which owns a 10 percent stake in
the KG-D6 block, cut the estimate for its share of proved and
probable gas reserves to 193 billion cubic feet as of March 31,
according to a June 20 statement, which didn’t provide year-
earlier figures.  Production is expected to decline to 20 million cubic
meters a day in the year starting April 1, 2014, Oil Minister S. Jaipal Reddy said in parliament on May 8. The drop in output has
cut gas supplies to customers, including power and fertilizer
producers, all of which are selected by the government to buy
the fuel at a state-set rate.  Reliance sold stakes in KG-D6 and 20 other blocks to  BP
Plc (BP/) , Europe’s second-biggest oil producer by market value, as
Ambani sought the London-based company’s technology to drill and
produce gas from the deepwater area. BP, which completed the
 $7.2 billion  deal a year ago, and Reliance are preparing a new
plan to produce gas from the biggest deposits in the block and
develop adjoining areas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  