-- Reliance Beats Sinopec as Exports Lift Refining
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2012-10-16T11:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/reliance-beats-sinopec-as-exports-lift-refining.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  is raising
sales from the world’s biggest refining complex, helping boost
profit from crude processing and beating rivals including  Asia ’s
largest refiner  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)   The company controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani  said
yesterday it earned $9.5 a barrel from refining in the quarter
ended Sept. 30, the highest in a year. China’s two biggest
processors, whose shares have lagged behind Reliance this year,
incurred losses from fuel production in the first half of 2012.
Mumbai-based Reliance’s margin will increase further as the
onset of winter in  Europe  lifts demand, according to consultants
FACTS Global Energy and KBC Energy Economics.  Reliance is better placed than competitors from the Asian
economies of China and  Japan  because of its ability to meet
demand in markets as far as Europe and the U.S., said  Praveen Kumar , a Singapore-based analyst at FACTS Global Energy. Ambani,
55, is betting on turning crude into fuels to boost profit amid
declining natural-gas production at its biggest field, while
China Petroleum and  PetroChina Co. (857)  turn to exploration to
counter losses from processing crude.  “In refining, Reliance is a cut above the rest,” said
FACTS Global’s Kumar. “They are well positioned to sell fuels
to Europe to meet winter requirements and in  India , where demand
continues to grow. Due to this ability to switch markets, the
higher profit margins will stay.”  Growing refinery profit has meant Reliance’s shares have
 climbed  19 percent this year.  Cosmo Oil Co. (5007) , a Japanese refiner
partly owned by the government of  Abu Dhabi , has slumped 33
percent, while China Petroleum, also known as Sinopec, has
dropped 3.4 percent. PetroChina, Asia’s biggest company by
market value, has gained 8.2 percent.  Share Performance  Reliance fell 1.3 percent to 812.45 rupees at the close in
Mumbai today. The shares have gained 17 percent this year,
compared with a 20 percent increase in the benchmark  Sensitive
Index. (SENSEX)   Ambani plans to spend 1 trillion rupees over the next five
years to expand chemical-producing capacity, bolster refinery
operations and enter telecommunications as he seeks to revive
net income that has dropped for four straight quarters.  The Indian company yesterday reported a 5.7 percent decline
in second-quarter profit to 53.8 billion rupees from a year
earlier. The median estimate of 28 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey was 53.7 billion rupees. Reliance produced an average 30
million cubic meters of gas a day from the KG-D6 block in the
quarter ended Sept. 30, compared with 46.6 million a year
earlier, according to presentations on its website.  Reliance’s quarterly revenue from refining rose 23 percent
to 838.8 billion rupees. Exports of refined products fell 9.1
percent to $18.9 billion in the six months ended Sept. 30.  Refinery Shutdowns  A series of plant disruptions in the west may have curbed
fuel supplies and helped Reliance get better prices for its
products, Ehsan Ul-Haq, senior market consultant at KBC, said by
phone from Walton-on-Thames,  England .  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  last week said a crude unit closed by a fire
in August at its Richmond refinery, near San Francisco, will
remain shut until end-December. Petroleos de  Venezuela  SA said
last month that its 645,000-barrel-a-day Amuay refinery, the
biggest in the Western Hemisphere, is operating at about half
its capacity after an Aug. 25 explosion.  Reliance’s two adjacent refineries at Jamnagar in the
western Indian state of Gujarat have the capacity to turn 1.24
million barrels of crude a day into fuels. The plants can
process heavier grades of oil, that are typically cheaper than
lighter types of crude, into lucrative products that can be sold
in Europe and the U.S.  European Stockpiles  “Currently, there are several European refineries
undergoing maintenance as well, so gasoil stocks are quite low
in the region with winter coming up,” Ul-Haq said.  Gasoil, or diesel, stockpiles in independent storage in
Europe’s oil-trading hub of Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp fell to
the lowest level in nine months, according to PJK International
BV. Gasoil inventories decreased 3.9 percent to 2.08 million
metric tons in the week to Oct. 11, according to the researcher.
That’s the lowest level since Jan. 12.  Reliance is considering raising its diesel output, Tony
Fountain, chief executive officer at its refining business, said
in New Delhi yesterday.  Reliance’s profit from fuel sales may be constrained as
capacities are restored and Chinese and Indian companies plan
further additions, said Sandeep Randery, a Mumbai-based analyst
at Brics Securities Ltd.  Globally, a net 1.3 million barrels a day of refining
capacity may be added this year, according to a Citigroup Inc.
report on Aug. 30.  “Maintaining refining margins may be a challenge for
Reliance,” said Randery, who has an add rating on the stock.  Indian Consumption  The company will focus on expanding its flagship processing
operations rather than on exploration and production, Dayanand Mittal, a Mumbai-based analyst with Ambit Capital Pvt. said in
an Oct. 3 report. Reliance’s $4-billion plan to set up a petcoke
gasification facility by the financial year 2015 will help
expand refining margin by $2.5 a barrel, Mittal said.  India’s fuel consumption, including gasoline and diesel,
increased 10 percent in the April-August period from a year ago,
according to Oil Ministry data. Demand may increase 6.1 percent
in the year ending March 31, the data show.  Japan’s oil-product demand may decline at a rate of 3.5
percent a year through March 2015, according to an estimate by
the country’s trade ministry. The nation’s refineries are also
being asked by the government to cut capacity or modernize in an
oversupplied market so they can compete better with rivals.  Oil-product use in  China  fell 0.40 percent in August from a
year earlier to 8.955 million barrels per day, the lowest since
September 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sinopec Profit  “Japanese domestic demand is shrinking due to an older
population that doesn’t drive as much as young Indians do,”
FACTS’ Kumar said. “In China, refiners primarily have to serve
the domestic market and cannot capitalize on demand in Europe
because they can’t shift to exporting products quickly.”  Sinopec posted its lowest half-yearly profit since 2008
after the sale of fuels at state-controlled prices reduced
earnings. The company posted a loss of 18.5 billion  yuan  ($3
billion) from processing 811 million barrels of oil in the first
half of 2012. PetroChina, the country’s second-largest refiner,
incurred a loss of 23.3 billion yuan from refining 489.7 million
barrels in the period.  Reliance posted an  operating income  of 38.5 billion rupees
from refining in the six months ended June 30.  China increased gasoline and diesel prices for the second
time in about a month on Sept. 10 because of rising crude costs
and slowing inflation. The rate increase may help Sinopec break
even on refining in the quarter ended Sept. 30,  Neil Beveridge 
and Ying Lou, Hong Kong-based analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. said in an Oct. 5 report.  “Reliance has its own port for imports and exports and is
situated quite close to the  Middle East  to get crude,” Kumar
said. “Its refinery is sophisticated enough to use different
crude from Venezuela to  Saudi Arabia . All this keeps operating
costs relatively low compared to peers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  