-- Retail Sales Beating Forecasts Support U.S. Growth
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-10-15T20:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/retail-sales-in-u-s-increased-more-than-forecast-in-september.html
Americans snapped up goods from cars
to iPhones in September at a faster pace than forecast by
economists, showing consumer demand was heading into the year-
end holidays on a high note.  The 1.1 percent  advance  followed a revised 1.2 percent
increase in August, the best back-to-back showing since late
2010, Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington.
The  median  forecast of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a 0.8 percent rise.  “This keeps the economic expansion moving forward,” said
 Dean Maki , New York-based chief U.S. economist at Barclays Plc.
“ Consumer spending  is continuing to grow solidly.”  Gains were broad-based, with 12 of 13 retail categories
showing an improvement, as shoppers were heartened by higher
stock prices and home values. Faster payroll growth would
further boost the consumer spending that’s needed to offset a
slowdown in business investment, Maki said.  Maki raised his tracking estimate of third-quarter consumer
spending to 2.1 percent from 1.8 percent, and for gross domestic
product to 2 percent from 1.8 percent after the report.  Shares climbed as the retail sales report and earnings from
Citigroup Inc. overshadowed a slump in commodity prices. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.8 percent to 1,440.13 at the
close in  New York .  Other reports today showed that inventories in the U.S.
rose at a slower pace in August, indicating that unexpected
strength in sales may be starting to drain stockpiles, and
manufacturing in the New York region contracted in October for a
third straight month.  Global Economy  Globally, inflation in  China  cooled in September,
approaching the slowest pace in two years, giving the government
room to ease policy should growth keep deteriorating. In  London ,
asking prices for homes surged to a record this month.  Economists’ estimates for retail sales in the Bloomberg
survey ranged from gains of 0.3 percent to 1.3 percent. The
reading for August was revised from an initially reported
increase of 0.9 percent.  Sales climbed 1.3 percent at automobile dealers, after a
1.8 percent increase the prior month, today’s report showed. The
results are in sync with industry figures issued earlier this
month.  Cars and light trucks  sold  at a 14.9 million annual pace in
September, the most since March 2008, according to Ward’s
Automotive Group. Chrysler Group LLC and  General Motors Co. (GM) 
reported gains.  Auto Sales  “We continue to be encouraged by positive signs from the
housing sector, lower jobless claims, higher consumer sentiment
and higher consumer spending,” Kurt McNeil, GM’s vice president
of U.S. sales, said on an Oct. 2 conference call. “The stiffest
headwinds are uncertainty, some of which is related to the
sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  and concerns about the pace of
growth here at home.”  Celenia Cruz, a nurse, is among those who are spending
more. She said she recently got a new job at  Stanford University 
that came with a big raise. Cruz, who’s from  San Jose ,
 California , is finishing up a vacation in Washington.  “I’ve been spending more money on clothes and a vacation,
like this one,” she said. “Today is our last day in D.C.,
we’ve been here for four days.”  Retail sales  excluding autos  increased 1.1 percent, the
most since January, today’s report showed. They were projected
to rise 0.7 percent, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  iPhone 5  Electronics dealers showed a 4.5 percent jump in sales, the
biggest gain since October 2011. Apple’s iPhone 5 became
available on Sept. 21 in the U.S. and more than 5 million units
sold in the first three days, surpassing a record set last year
by the previous model. Demand for the new handset exceeded the
initial supply, the Cupertino, California-based company said.  Non-store retailers, which include online merchants, may
have also benefited from demand for the new device, leading to a
1.8 percent gain in receipts.  The gains in spending didn’t stop there as clothing stores
racked up a 0.6 percent increase in receipts last month, today’s
report showed.  Retailers may have benefited from a last-minute rush for
back-to-school items, with September same-store sales topping
analysts’ estimates at discount and specialty-apparel chains.
 Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-biggest U.S. discounter, had a 2.1
percent gain from a year earlier, and  TJX Cos. (TJX) , the owner of
T.J. Maxx and Marshalls, reported a 6 percent increase.  Excluding Autos  Excluding autos, gasoline and building materials, which are
the figures used to calculate gross domestic product, sales
climbed 0.9 percent, the best performance since July, after a
0.1 percent gain the previous month.  There is “some resilience on the part of the consumer,”
said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in New York, who projected a 1 percent increase in sales.
“We are going to continue to see slow, but steady, growth.”  A stronger labor market would help boost the outlook for
retail sales. Payrolls rose 114,000 in September after a 142,000
increase the prior month, according to Labor Department figures.
The  unemployment rate  dropped to a three-year low of 7.8 percent
from 8.1 percent.  Household purchases may have grown at a 1.9 percent annual
rate in the third quarter after a 1.5 percent gain in the prior
three months, according to the median forecast in a separate
Bloomberg survey of economists taken from Oct. 5 to Oct. 10.
Spending will rise 2.1 percent this quarter, the survey showed.  Companies in the U.S. boosted inventories by 0.6 percent in
August following a 0.8 percent gain the prior month, Commerce
Department data also showed today. Sales at factories,
wholesalers and retailers climbed 0.5 percent after advancing
0.9 percent the prior month.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s Empire State index
rose to minus 6.2 this month from minus 10.4 in September, which
was the lowest since April 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  