-- Romania Borrows Less Than Planned to Keep Costs Under Check
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-10-15T13:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/romania-borrows-less-than-planned-to-keep-costs-under-check.html
Romania sold less debt than planned
at an auction today as investors demanded higher yields after
the central bank capped funding for lenders for the second time
this month and accelerating inflation posed a risk to fixed-
income returns.  The  Finance Ministry  sold 625 million lei ($177 million) of
11-month Treasury bills, less than the 1 billion lei targeted.
It rejected offers from investors who demanded yields higher
than the average 6.08 percent paid at today’s sale, the bank
said in an e-mailed statement. Bids came in at 1.6 billion lei.  The bank limited its lending at the one-week repurchase
agreements auction to 6 billion lei today to support the leu as
commercial banks’ demand increased to a record high of 21.4
billion lei. The currency had traded to a 2-month low before the
bank capped funding on Oct. 8. Romania’s inflation rate rose to
5.3 percent in September, the highest in more than a year.  The increase in yields results from “a combination of
tighter liquidity and increasing inflation” which have “put
leu bonds under pressure,” traders at Vienna-based  Erste Group
Bank AG (EBS)  said in a note to clients today.  The last time Banca Nationala a Romaniei cut repo lending
was on Aug. 6 and it followed through with lower funding for
lenders for the rest of the month, which in turn led to the
currency gaining 2.6 percent in August.  The leu weakened 0.2 percent to 4.5732 per euro by 4:26
p.m. in Bucharest, depreciating for a second day.  The yields on 2018 euro-denominated bonds were little
changed at a record low of 4.097 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The average yield at today auction was below the estimates
of analysts from Erste Group Bank AG, Piraeus Bank  Romania  SA
and ING Bank Romania SA of 6.2 percent to 6.25 percent. That’s
higher than the 6.02 percent and 5.53 percent paid on similar-
maturity bills auctioned on Oct. 8 and July 9, respectively,
according to central bank’s data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  