-- Romney Sues Wisconsin, Seeks Absentee Ballot Extension
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-10-15T22:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/romney-sues-wisconsin-seeks-absentee-ballot-extension.html
Mitt Romney ’s campaign sued
Wisconsin for allegedly delaying distribution of more than three
dozen ballots for the Nov. 6 presidential election to civilians
and military personnel overseas, asking a court to extend the
deadline for all such ballots in the state.  Federal law mandates election officials must “transmit”
absentee ballots to the military and other U.S. citizens living
overseas “at least 45 days before a federal election,” Romney
for President Inc. said in a complaint filed in federal court in
Madison.  Wisconsin, a swing state, “failed to ensure that absentee
ballots were sent to military and overseas voters who validly
requested them” by the Sept. 22 deadline, the group said. A CBS
News/ New York  Times/Quinnipiac University poll taken Oct. 4-9
put President  Barack Obama  ahead in Wisconsin, 50 percent to 47
percent, over Romney, a former Massachusetts governor.  According to the complaint, some ballots were sent out as
much as nine days late. Completed ballots must be received by
election officials no later than 4 p.m. on Nov. 9 to be counted.  The Romney group asked a federal judge to declare that the
state violated the absentee ballot law and issue an injunction
to extend deadlines for mailing ballots back to Wisconsin by at
least five days, according to court papers filed Oct. 12.  Absentee Ballots  “Without such relief, it is unlikely that state officials
will receive those individuals’ completed absentee ballots in
time to be counted,” according to court papers.  Thomas Bellavia, a Wisconsin assistant attorney general
assigned to the case, didn’t immediately return phone and e-mail
messages seeking comment on the lawsuit.  Ryan Williams , a spokesman for the Romney campaign, said in
a phone interview that about 44 ballots were sent out late, in
about 30 municipalities in Wisconsin. He declined to comment on
how many absentee ballots are projected to be filed in
Wisconsin.  The number of ballots at issue is far lower than initially
thought, said Reid Magney, spokesman for the Wisconsin
Government Accountability Board, which oversees the state’s
elections.  Additional Review  After additional review with local election clerks, “there
are only four ballots that were sent out where the voters
wouldn’t have the required 45 days,” he said in an interview
today. One of those, a voter in basic training at a military
base in  Georgia , got his ballot online last week, Magney said.
So far, 4,234 absentee ballots have been sent to these voters.  “Up until election day, someone in the military can get
the ballot off the web site,” Magney said.  Military personnel and permanent overseas voters cast 6,496
ballots in the 2008 election in Wisconsin, according to the
board’s website. A total of 2,997,086 votes were cast in
Wisconsin in 2008.  Magney declined to comment on the merits of the lawsuit.
“Our attorneys will be responding to the substance of the
lawsuit,” he said.  The case is Romney for President Inc. v. State of
Wisconsin, 12-cv-745, U.S. District Court, Western District of
 Wisconsin  (Madison).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  