-- Romney’s Tax Plan: Secret or Just Nonsensical?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-15T22:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/romney-s-tax-plan-secret-or-just-nonsensical-.html
Mitt Romney , who built Bain Capital
LLC and ran  Massachusetts  with technocratic detachment, is a
famously astute numbers guy. These twin achievements make it all
the more frustrating that Romney has resisted filling in the
details on the  signature proposal  of his U.S. presidential
campaign: to cut taxes by 20 percent across the board without
raising taxes on the middle class or exploding the deficit.  Romney’s reticence has led others to do the job for him.
This in turn has made his campaign unhappy. An  analysis  from the
nonpartisan Tax Policy Center has met with particular scorn as
it concluded Romney’s plan is  mathematically impossible  -- that
there simply aren’t enough deductions, credits or loopholes in
the tax code to offset the cuts for the well-off without
wreaking havoc. (Romney’s promise to increase defense spending
only  complicates matters .) As Bloomberg View’s Josh Barro has
demonstrated, efforts to poke holes in the tax center’s work  are
unconvincing .  The desire for specificity is hardly unreasonable. Running
in 2000, George W. Bush insisted that his proposed tax cut would
be a  boon  to the middle class. Experts demurred, arguing that
the top 1 percent of income earners would reap a windfall. Like
Romney, Bush declined to show his math. In the end, his 2001 tax
cut delivered  almost half  of its benefits to the top 1 percent
and initiated Bush’s march toward a trillion-dollar deficit.  At his debate with Vice President Joseph Biden last week,
Republican vice presidential nominee Paul Ryan said the campaign
wouldn’t release definitive numbers because they would only be
finalized in bipartisan negotiations with Congress. Tax and
spending legislation must work its way through Congress, of
course. But it’s hard to give Romney and Ryan the benefit of the
doubt when they trumpet big tax cuts while steadfastly refusing
to disclose who will pay for them.  In his first debate with President  Barack Obama , Romney
made a decisive and welcome pivot to the ideological center. We
would like to imagine this moderate Romney spelling out the
details of a sensible tax reform plan that limits deductions,
adjusts rates and calls for sacrifice from all Americans. Such a
stance would surely put Romney in a stronger position to ask
Obama about the president’s own plans. Details matter. If Romney
has some secret sauce that tax experts have overlooked, now is
the time to tell us. Otherwise, we are left to fill in the
blanks.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how Spain can stop  Catalonian
secession ; Edward Glaeser on the  winner of the economics Nobel ;
 Jeffrey Goldberg  on Republicans using the  Benghazi attack to
undermine Obama ; Michael Kinsley on checking  candidates’
arguments  instead of facts; William Pesek on  “Gangnam Style” and
South Korea’s economy ; Ramesh Ponnuru on why  both candidates are
wrong on China ; Carmen M. Reinhart and Kenneth S. Rogoff on why
 U.S. financial crises  aren’t different.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 