-- Rupee Leads Drop in Asian Currencies on Global Slowdown Concern
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-10-15T09:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/rupee-leads-drop-in-asian-currencies-on-global-slowdown-concern.html
Asian currencies fell, led by the
Indian rupee, as concern a global economic slowdown is deepening
damped demand for emerging-market assets.  China’s economy probably  expanded  7.4 percent last quarter,
the least in more than three years, a Bloomberg News survey
showed before data due Oct. 18. Bank of Israel Governor Stanley
Fischer said in Tokyo on Oct. 13 that the world is “awfully
close” to a recession. European leaders will meet in Brussels
for an Oct. 18-19 summit as  Greece  seeks fresh aid and Spain
holds out on tapping a bailout.  “There’s caution ahead of the Chinese data,” said
Saktiandi Supaat, head of foreign-exchange research at  Malayan
Banking Bhd. (MAY)  in Singapore. “The European Union summit this week
may add a little bit of volatility to currency markets.”  The rupee weakened 0.4 percent to 53.0200 per dollar as of
2:45 p.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Thailand ’s baht dropped 0.2 percent to 30.70,  Indonesia ’s rupiah
weakened 0.1 percent to 9,599 and  Malaysia ’s ringgit depreciated
0.1 percent to 3.0600. China’s yuan fell 0.1 percent to 6.2707,
after earlier rising to the strongest level in 19 years as the
central bank bolstered the currency’s reference rate by the most
in seven months.  The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
active currencies outside  Japan , was little changed. The MSCI
 Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares was 0.1 percent higher after
earlier dropping as much as 0.3 percent.  Weakening Outlook  Last week, the International Monetary Fund cut its
forecasts for global expansion this year to 3.3 percent, which
would be the smallest gain since the 2009 recession, and said
there are “alarmingly high” risks of a steeper slowdown. The
Washington-based lender lowered its estimate for  India ’s growth
to 4.9 percent from 6.1 percent.  The rupee fell for a second day as a government report
today showed inflation accelerated to 7.81 percent last month
from 7.55 percent in August. The median  estimate  in a Bloomberg
survey had predicted a 7.70 percent increase.  “Weak sentiment from global markets is weighing on the
rupee,” said Pramit Brahmbhatt, Mumbai-based chief executive
officer at Alpari Financial Services India Ltd. “ China ’s third-
quarter growth numbers are in focus.”‬  The baht depreciated the most since Oct. 10 as global funds
reduced holdings of the nation’s equities on concern European
nations will struggle to contain their region’s debt crisis.  ‘Not Encouraging’  International investors sold $378 million more Thai shares
than they bought last week, exchange data show. The Spanish
government wants to obtain guarantees that the European Central
Bank will intervene in the debt market in order to request a
bailout, El Pais reported yesterday, citing unidentified people
in the government.  “The external environment is not really encouraging
investors to take risks,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a Bangkok-based
foreign-exchange trader at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. “The
local currency doesn’t look bullish either.”  The  yuan  touched the strongest level since China unified
the official and market exchange rates in 1993 as official data
showed exports grew more than economists estimated.  Overseas shipments rose 9.9 percent from a year earlier in
September, the biggest gain in three months, official figures
showed Oct. 13. That beat the 5.5 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey.  Yuan Fixing  The People’s Bank of China raised the reference rate by
0.24 percent today to 6.3112 per dollar after the trade surplus
in the first nine months widened about 38 percent from a year
earlier to $148.3 billion. The yuan is close to equilibrium
level, PBOC Deputy Governor Yi Gang said at an International
Monetary Fund event in  Tokyo  yesterday.  “The yuan had a boost from the better-than-expected
exports and the PBOC fixing,” said Daniel Chan, executive vice
president at Glory Sky Global Markets Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Yet
it’s difficult for the currency to stay at such a strong level
given overseas orders haven’t shown any significant recovery.
Yi’s comments support such a view.”  Elsewhere in Asia, Singapore’s dollar fell 0.1 percent to
S$1.2216 against the U.S. currency and the Philippine peso
dropped 0.1 percent to 41.467. South Korea’s won rose 0.1
percent to 1,110.45 and and  Vietnam ’s dong was little changed at
20,853.  Taiwan ’s dollar rose 0.1 percent to NT$29.345.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  