-- TSA Limited by Airlines in Trying to Speed U.S. Airport Checks
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-10-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/tsa-limited-by-airlines-in-trying-to-speed-u-s-airport-checks.html
The U.S.  Transportation Security
Administration , vowing to make airport security checks faster
and less intrusive for lowest-risk passengers, made airlines an
early partner in its trusted-traveler program known as PreCheck.  It’s an arrangement with a catch, one that’s limited how
many people can use the program and how often those selected can
breeze through checks with shoes and belts on. The 1 million
PreCheck screenings a month the TSA projects for next year
probably will be about 2 percent of U.S. passengers, far from
the 50 percent to 75 percent that agency officials say they want
to move into the speedier lines.  TSA has relied on airlines to nominate PreCheck candidates
from among their best customers. Because not all airlines
participate, and some consider frequent-flier information
secret, a passenger qualifying under one airline can’t use
PreCheck if flying another carrier. Agency officials said they
don’t have the technical capability now to create a
clearinghouse that might resolve the roadblock.  “The system should be based on risk and efficiency, not
customer loyalty,” said Geoff Freeman, executive vice president
at the  U.S. Travel Association , a Washington-based trade group
whose members include hotels, cruise lines and tour operators.
“TSA has made their bed with the airlines.”  PreCheck is a cornerstone of the agency’s efforts to move
away from what TSA Administrator  John Pistole  calls a “one-
size-fits-all” security system. It’s cleared more than 3
million passengers so far and is  available  at 27 U.S. airports.  System Limits  “The goal is to expand PreCheck as broadly as possible,”
Pistole said at a news conference Sept. 25. “The vast majority
of travelers simply want to get from point A to point B safely.
They’re not terrorists.”  PreCheck’s structure makes it difficult to clear passengers
on more than one airline, said  Douglas Hofsass , the TSA’s
assistant administrator for the office of risk-based security.  TSA sets the classified criteria, and transmits them to
participating airlines. Airlines match the qualifications, which
include the number of miles flown, number of segments flown and
number of destinations, against their frequent-flier lists.
Airlines ask customers who qualify if they want to opt into
PreCheck. Those who do are forwarded to TSA for final approval.  The  airline industry  worked closely with the security
administration on PreCheck to reduce wait times and allow TSA to
“focus its resources where they are most needed,” said
Victoria Day, spokeswoman for Airlines for America, the
Washington-based trade group that represents companies like
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  United Continental Holdings Inc.. (UAL)   Technology Hurdles  In addition to those two carriers,  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American
Airlines ,  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and  Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK) ’s
Alaska Airlines participate in the program.  Airlines want the government to expand PreCheck and support
efforts to help customers qualify across carriers, she said.  Some airlines are reluctant to share customer information
with competitors, Hofsass said. They’ve indicated they’re
willing to work with TSA, he said. Technology may be the bigger
hurdle.  “Technically, we don’t have the ability right now, based
on the way the eligibility requirements are transmitted to the
individual carrier, the way those individuals opt in and the way
those records come into us, to validate those individuals,”
Hofsass said.  “We don’t have the ability to cascade that to other
carriers when those individuals make reservations,” he said.
“It doesn’t mean we don’t have an idea as to how we might solve
that.”  Partner Needed  The agency needs to turn to a private-industry partner who
can market the program and create a database of PreCheck fliers,
said U.S. Representative Mike Rogers, who oversees the agency
through his Transportation Security subcommittee.  “This is another example of TSA’s failure to effectively
communicate early on with the private sector,” the Alabama
Republican said. “It’s TSA’s responsibility to work with the
airlines to find an appropriate solution. If TSA had done it
right the first time we wouldn’t be in this situation.”  TSA officials believe they can move more people into
PreCheck by getting more airlines to opt in, and by finding more
groups that can qualify, Hofsass said.  “Frankly the number of folks that actually travel on other
carriers, that is not the factor that is holding back the growth
of the program,” Hofsass said. “That’s not our roadblock to
success.”  The agency is seeking partners that can help vet passengers
who aren’t frequent fliers but may be willing to share personal
information in exchange for faster screening, Hofsass said.
Announcements are expected in 2013, he said.  Clear Card  Alclear LLC, based in  New York , is one company vying to get
into the field. It sells a biometric identification card called
Clear that speeds screening at four U.S. airports. Clear holders
get to go to the front of screening lines while still being
subject to shoes-off, belt-off screening procedures.  Alclear bought Clear out of bankruptcy in 2010 from
Verified Identity Pass, a company founded by Steven Brill. The
original business peaked at more than 200,000 members at 17
airports, before being suspended by the TSA in 2008 after a
laptop containing personal information of 33,000 customers went
missing.  Clear is “well-positioned to help scale the secure
eligible population for TSA’s risk-based security initiatives at
no cost to the government or taxpayers,” Caryn Seidman-Becker,
chief executive officer, said in an e-mail. Clear has more than
200,000 members in its database, according to Nora O’Malley, a
spokeswoman.  ‘Extraordinarily Complex’  TSA encourages travelers who don’t qualify for PreCheck as
frequent fliers to enroll in Global Entry, a program created by
 U.S. Customs  and  Border Protection  to automate some border-
crossing processes.  Applications have surged from about 16,000 a month a year
ago to nearly 38,000 in September, said Stephanie Malin, a CBP
spokeswoman. Applicants pay a $100 application fee for a pass
that lasts five years and lets them use PreCheck.  To get their passes, though, applicants must go through a
personal interview that isn’t offered everywhere. A resident of
 New Orleans  would have to travel 700 miles round-trip to Houston
for the interview, after filling out an online questionnaire
that includes a list of residences, work history and countries
visited for several years, said Freeman of the U.S. Travel
Association.  “Global Entry is extraordinarily complex,” Freeman said.  It hasn’t worked so far for Charlie Leocha, director of the
Consumer Travel Alliance, which advocates for passengers before
TSA and the  Federal Aviation Administration .  Leocha said he hasn’t been allowed to use PreCheck in any
of the 10 trips he’s taken since it was created, even though
he’s a longtime Global Entry member. Other Global Entry members
report similar experiences, he said. He’s looked on with envy as
other passengers go through the no-hassle line, he said.  ‘Ways Off’  “When it works, it’s like magic,” Leocha said. “But it’s
a work in progress. We’re a long ways off from being able to
deal with the masses.”  A computer glitch that rejected  Global Entry  members for
minor misspellings was discovered and corrected this summer,
TSA’s Hofsass said. Global Entry members have to make sure they
enter their identification numbers on each flight, he said.  CBP expects some travelers will be able to build in about
20 minutes for the Global Entry interviews while they’re on
trips for other purposes, Malin said.  “We’re trying to cover as many bases as possible,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  