-- HSBC Said to End Administration Ties With Some Hedge Funds
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 2012-10-15T04:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/hsbc-said-to-end-administration-ties-with-some-asian-hedge-funds.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the administrator
of $150 billion in assets for hedge funds, is terminating
agreements with some smaller Asian clients to focus on more
profitable ones, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  One of the termination notices, reviewed by  Bloomberg News ,
outlined when the bank will stop providing its services. The
letter didn’t give a reason for HSBC’s decision.  HSBC recently reviewed its fund-administration clients,
something it does from time to time to gauge whether the
relationships are mutually beneficial and whether to maintain
them, said another person. The people asked not to be identified
because the information is private. Tim Nicholls, a Hong Kong-
based spokesman for HSBC, declined to comment on individual
client relationships.  “From an admin point of view, serving a client that has
$20 million in assets would be just as much as serving a client
with $200 million -- you still have to do the same asset
valuations,” said Allard de Jong, the group director at
Portcullis Fund Administration (S) Pte in  Singapore  and a former
head of Alternative Fund Services at HSBC there.  Banks are cutting costs to offset stricter capital and
regulatory requirements. Asian hedge funds are struggling to
raise money and deliver investment gains. Investors have
withdrawn more than $440 million this year from funds in the
region, while at least 70 of them have closed in 2012, according
to Eurekahedge Pte, a Singapore-based data provider.  Large Funds  HSBC is cutting some small clients who are too costly to
maintain, said one of the people.  Most of the funds in the region that have been served the
notices by HSBC are managing $50 million or less, said two other
people. Some of the funds have more than $100 million of assets,
the people said.  Investors globally directed almost 80 percent of new
capital to  hedge funds  overseeing more than $5 billion in the 15
months to March, according to Chicago-based  Hedge Fund Research
Inc . More than 60 percent of the about 1,300 Asian hedge funds
tracked by Eurekahedge oversaw $50 million or less.  Fund administration includes accounting, valuation,
statutory compliance and fund transfers. The business falls
under HSBC’s global banking and markets  division .  Earning Fees  Apex Fund Services, a fund administrator, has been in talks
with about a dozen hedge funds which have received such notices
from HSBC, said Anthony D’Silva, a managing director in charge
of business development in the Asia-Pacific region. The company,
which was started in  Bermuda  in 2003, is in the process of
signing up a few of them, he added.  Administrators usually charge fees that are basis points of
hedge funds’ assets under management, according to D’Silva.
Small funds are subject to minimum charges and fees vary among
administrators, he added.  “If a client is small, your basis points don’t really kick
in,” said Portcullis’ de Jong.  HSBC Securities Services was the 10th-largest administrator
of single-manager hedge funds, with $107.2 billion of assets,
according to a global survey published by London-based trade
journal HFMWeek between May and June. It slipped from ninth
position six months earlier.  It was the ninth-biggest administrator of funds of hedge
funds, with $42.7 billion of assets, down from eighth place six
months earlier, according to a separate HFMWeek survey.  Dublin Move  HSBC earlier this year moved a fund-administration unit to
Dublin from  New York  to control costs, a person with knowledge
of the situation said in February.  Europe ’s  largest  bank plans
to eliminate 30,000 jobs and trim as much as $3.5 billion of
expenses over the next two years as it tackles wage inflation in
 Asia  and prepares for stricter capital rules, the bank said in
May 2011.  The Eurekahedge Asian Hedge Fund Index returned 4 percent
this year and its global industry gauge advanced 4.2 percent,
according to preliminary monthly figures for September.  Some prime brokers review their client base as often as
twice a year, said another person familiar with the workings of
both industries. Prime brokerage provides services including
clearing trades, lending cash and securities to hedge funds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  