-- Scene in D.C.: Alito for Italian Culture, Meridian Ball
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-10-15T15:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/scene-in-d-c-alito-for-italian-culture-meridian-ball.html
Mark Del Rosso is passing along
Italian-American traditions to his 11-year-old son, Anthony.  The art of enjoying “a proper cannoli” is one of them.  Anthony and his dad, the executive vice president and chief
operating officer of Audi of America Inc., were onstage at the
 Washington  Hilton Saturday night when Del Rosso received the
achievement award in business from the  National Italian American
Foundation .  The organization celebrated its 37th anniversary gala with
a veal-and-pasta dinner for 1,500. Tiramisu and wines from
Statti and Librandi added to the European flavor.  Italian Americans “embody the social sensitivity of
 Italy ,” said Letizia Moratti, in red Odicini and diamonds.  The former mayor of Milan, the first woman to hold this
office, received the NIAF’s special achievement award in
philanthropy for her work as president of the Friends of  San
Patrignano , which rehabilitates substance abusers from all over
the world.  “In the long term, I’m optimistic,” she said about the
state of the European economy. She added that she wished more
Italian businesses would develop corporate giving programs, or
“social ventures,” as U.S. companies do.  Italy’s minister of foreign affairs, Giulio Terzi di Sant’Agata, lauded the inclusion of Italian-language education
in U.S. schools, adding that exposure to Italian culture is a
key ingredient of his foreign policy.  Ferrero Group  Ralph Izzo, the chairman of Public Service Enterprise
Group, accepted NIAF’s award in science and technology. Giovanni Ferrero, the chief executive of the Ferrero Group, was honored
for his role in international business. Ferrero SpA president
Francesco Paolo Fulci, Italy’s former ambassador to the  United
Nations , accepted the award on his behalf.  Supreme Court Justice  Samuel Alito  joined the honorees on
stage for the program with Italian Ambassador Claudio Bisogniero, whose wife, Laura, in a nod to her homeland, wore
 Giorgio Armani , a former NIAF honoree.  Other guests included Salvatore Zizza, chairman of
Metropolitan Paper Recycling, and Fernando Napolitano, founder
and president of the Italian Business & Investment Initiative.  Meridian Ball  Friday night’s 44th annual Meridian Ball at the beaux-arts
Meridian House created some unusual couplings.  Former Michigan Governor James Blanchard, now co-chairman
of government affairs for DLA Piper U.S. LLP, laughed heartily
with Patrick Durkin, managing director for Barclays Capital Inc.  Blanchard is a keen Obama guy, and Durkin is a top
fundraiser for Romney.  They found common ground joking about the “Saturday Night
Live” skits poking fun at undecided voters.  Panama Ambassador Mario Jaramillo danced with Leila Mol
Beale, the wife of Barbados Ambassador John Beale.  The Meridian International Center fosters global dialogue
through programs and initiatives with the government and private
sector. The ball is the culmination of the annual Meridian
Global Leadership Summit.  Before they congregated at the ball, guests attended small
dinner parties at the home of an ambassador.  Swiss Ambassador Manuel Sager said he served lamb with
vegetables grown from his garden. He attended the ball with his
wife, Christine.  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  Chief Executive Jay Johnson served
as co-chairman of the summit and ball. He hit the dance floor
with his wife, Sydney McNiff Johnson, clad in navy Monique
Lhuillier.  Guests who weren’t nibbling desserts or dancing were
relaxing in the courtyard where an early autumn chill called for
luxurious layers.  Viktoria Metzner, the wife of American Continental Group
managing partner David Metzner, wore a regal fur-trimmed beige
wrap.  Other guests included Representative Joe Crowley,  New York 
Democrat, Kendell Pease, vice president of government relations
and communications for General Dynamics, and Theodore Austell,
vice president of government operations for  Boeing Co. (BA)   (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater, Lili
Rosboch on  art .  To contact the writer on this story:
 Stephanie Green  in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 