-- Scholar Rules Edge Forward Amid 5-Year Impasse: Islamic Finance
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g   a n d   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-10-15T17:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/scholar-rules-edge-forward-amid-5-year-impasse-islamic-finance.html
After at least five years of delays,
Islamic finance experts in  Saudi Arabia  and Malaysia are
renewing efforts to create common regulations for scholars.  Malaysia’s  International Shariah Research Academy for
Islamic Finance  is working with its Middle Eastern counterpart
on guidelines that will address the number of boards on which
scholars can sit to reduce conflicts of interest, according to
Executive Director Mohamad Akram Laldin in Kuala Lumpur. An
institution will also be established to provide global
accreditation, said Akram, who helped set up a  body  last year to
oversee advisers’ activities in the Southeast Asian nation.  The industry needs such measures to boost confidence and
improve transparency, Abas A. Jalil, Kuala Lumpur-based chief
executive officer of Amanah Capital Group Ltd., said in an
interview yesterday. Discussions have faltered in the past
because of Persian Gulf experts’ more stringent interpretations
of Shariah law, which could still hinder progress, he said.  “The main challenge is to get everyone on the same page,”
Abas, who has helped form Islamic funds in Bahrain and
 Kazakhstan , said. “Scholars in  Malaysia  are more liberal. In
the  Middle East , their products focus mainly on local investors
so they don’t mind not being flexible.”  Share Ownership  In most countries there’s no limit to the number of
entities to which a scholar can advise on Shariah compliance,
Akram at Malaysia’s academy, said in an Oct. 10 interview. To
avoid conflict of interest in the Southeast Asian nation, the
central bank doesn’t allow Islamic experts to sit on more than
one board involved in the same  business .  The new rules being worked on in conjunction with the
 Islamic Research & Training Institute  in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia,
will also determine if religious scholars can own shares in
companies they advise and govern the disclosure of information
relating to products they help structure, Akram said.  “A universal Shariah governance framework will enhance
competitiveness and growth of Islamic financial institutions,”
Abdul Rahim Abdul Rahman, a scholar who advises HSBC Amanah
Malaysia Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur , said in an Oct. 14 e-mail.
“Shariah governance will ensure the achievement of
accountability toward stakeholders.”  The $1.3 trillion global Islamic finance industry is seeing
annual average growth rates of 15 percent, Malaysia’s Securities
Commission said in a June 27 statement. The proposed regulations
from the two academies come as sales of Shariah-compliant debt,
which pays returns on assets to comply with Islam’s ban on
interest, climbed to a record in the six-member Gulf Cooperation
Council, which includes Saudi Arabia.  Record Sukuk  Issuance in the GCC rose four-fold to $19.2 billion in 2012
from a year earlier to account for 49 percent of the $39.1
billion worldwide, which is also an all-time high, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Global Islamic bonds returned 8.1 percent this year, the
HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index shows, while debt in
emerging economies gained 16 percent, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Composite Index.  Average yields on sukuk fell five basis points last week to
a record low of 2.92 percent, after dropping 42 basis points in
the July-to-September quarter, according to the HSBC/Nasdaq
index. The difference between the average and the London
interbank offered rate, or Libor, narrowed one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 195 basis points.  Public Trust  The Bloomberg-AIBIM Bursa Malaysia Corporate Index, which
tracks 57 local-currency sukuk in the world’s biggest Islamic
debt market, gained 0.5 percent last week to 101.085. It reached
an all-time high of 101.1963 on Sept. 26.  The proposed guidelines would strengthen an industry which
now has varying degrees of supervision for religious experts,
Megat Hizaini Hassan, partner and head of the  Islamic finance 
practice at Kuala Lumpur-based law firm Lee Hishammuddin Allen &
Gledhill, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Engku Rabiah Adawiah Engku Ali, a scholar who sits on Bank
Negara Malaysia’s  Shariah Advisory Council  in Kuala Lumpur, said
in an Oct. 12 interview that a more robust framework would
reinforce the public’s trust.  Islamic experts versed in Shariah law are generally
required to have recognized university degrees before they can
act as advisers to banks and companies. A shortage of trained
personnel means they tend to sit on a number of advisory boards
simultaneously.  “Some Islamic Scholars with the highest qualifications
from top religious schools do not have a good knowledge of
economics and financial products, yet they sit on various boards
because of their influence in the Islamic world,” Amanah
Capital’s Abas said.  ‘Self-Regulated’  Mohammad Daud Bakar, a scholar who heads  Bank Negara ’s
Shariah committee also sits on boards of Malaysia’s  Securities
Commission , Islamic Bank of  Asia  Ltd., BNP Paribas SA and Noor
Islamic Bank among others, according to the institutions’
websites.  Mohamed Ali Elgari, an expert in Kuala Lumpur, holds
positions on boards including those of HSBC Amanah Malaysia Bhd.,
 Islamic Bank of Asia ,  National Commercial Bank , and  Abu Dhabi
Islamic Bank PJSC , the lenders’ websites show.  Islamic markets would benefit from rules overseeing
scholars although it could be a challenge to create a set of
guidelines that are applicable worldwide, according to Hong
Kong-based law firm Norton Rose.  “Scholars operate on a global basis and it is very
difficult to create regulations and systems which apply across
borders,” Davide Barzilai, a partner with  Norton Rose , said in
an e-mail yesterday. “Scholars are self-regulated by the market
and of course by their own conscience and Shariah.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net 
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  