-- Scotiabank Mexico Chief Says Middle Class Drives Growth
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-10-15T04:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/scotiabank-mexico-chief-says-middle-class-drives-growth.html
Bank of Nova Scotia  plans to take
advantage of improved  credit quality  and a growing middle class
to expand lending in Mexico,  Latin America ’s second-biggest
economy.  “We see a lot of opportunity right now to really start to
drive a lot more of the business, and take advantage of people’s
credit health,” said Troy Wright, president and chief executive
officer of Grupo Financiero Scotiabank Mexico.  Canada ’s third-largest bank will extend credit to families
looking to buy first homes, cars and furnishings, Wright said.
Mexico’s economy will grow 3.8 percent this year, versus 2.1
percent in the U.S. and a contraction of 0.5 percent in the euro
area, estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Mexico is “starting to get into a good period of time
where we don’t have challenges” on loan losses, Wright said in
an Oct. 12 telephone interview.  Scotiabank is  Mexico ’s seventh-largest bank by assets, with
710 branches. Wright, 47, was named to the position this month,
replacing Nicole Reich De Polignac. Before this post, Wright was
an executive vice president of retail distribution in Canada and
had spent nine years in Mexico with the bank’s capital markets
business.  “The story we were saying five, seven years ago has
continued to materialize in Mexico,” he said. “There’s a lot
of optimism in the growth of the economy in Mexico itself.”  International Banking  Mexico has the largest branch network among Scotiabank’s
international banking businesses, which include operations in
more than 50 countries. The international business had C$1.49
billion ($1.52 billion) in  profit  last year, representing about
28 percent of the lender’s 2011 earnings.  Scotiabank agreed in August to buy Mexico City-based
Credito Familiar SA, buying a stake owned by  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s
Banamex unit. The price wasn’t disclosed. The purchase, expected
to close by December, will allow Scotiabank to make $500 to
$1,500 loans to families that may not have a credit history,
Wright said.  The bank plans to run the 250 Credito Familiar branches
separate from Scotiabank because of the different types of
lending they provide. Customers have average salaries of $5,000
to $10,000 a year, and there are government programs distributed
through Mexican banks that allow clients to apply for first
mortgages, Wright said.  Credito Familiar  Scotiabank will “likely” keep the Credito Familiar name,
said Wright, who holds a Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in
economics from the  University of Western Ontario , and  completed
an Advanced Management Program at  Harvard Business School .  “It’s opening up a whole new segment,” said Wright. “As
those customers build and grow and succeed over time, then of
course they can potentially graduate up into our Scotiabank
operations.”  Scotiabank will look at  acquisition  opportunities in
Mexico, although its main focus will be organic growth, Wright
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  