-- Secret Political Cash Moves Through Nonprofit Daisy Chain
-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-10-15T19:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/secret-political-cash-moves-through-nonprofit-daisy-chain.html
Sean Noble, a former congressional
aide, had an account ready when the U.S.  Supreme Court  ruled in
2010 that corporations could join wealthy donors and spend
freely in federal elections. In less than a year, he had $62
million at his disposal.  He then unleashed it into that year’s midterm elections,
and, to this day, no one knows where Noble’s obscure Phoenix-
based nonprofit group called the Center to Protect Patient
Rights got its money.  What is known is where much of it went. According to the
group’s annual IRS disclosure, more than half of the cash was
parceled out to four groups -- the American Future Fund, 60 Plus
Association, Americans for  Job Security , and Americans for  Tax
Reform  -- that in turn spent $30 million to help elect
Republicans. For 60 Plus, an Arlington, Virginia-based group
that favors privatizing  Social Security  and has received funding
from billionaires David and  Charles Koch , the $9 million from
Noble’s nonprofit accounted for more than half of its 2010
revenue of $16 million, IRS records show.  Noble’s political activity sheds light on a Cayman Islands-
style web of nonprofit front groups and shell companies that are
increasingly being used to protect the identities of donors who
want to get involved in politics in big ways without leaving a
trace. These groups represent the super-secret money flowing
through federal elections in the aftermath of the Supreme
Court’s decision in  Citizens United  v.  Federal Election
Commission  and other court rulings.  ‘Money Shuffling’  “It’s a campaign finance haven,” said  Bill Allison ,
editorial director at the Sunlight Foundation, a Washington-
based group that advocates for government transparency.
“There’s money shuffling around between nonprofits, going from
one organization that then is giving it to another.”  Noble’s personal finances also improved, as he went from
being a Capitol Hill senior aide to the owner of four homes --
including an eight-bedroom, Utah property -- and a Washington,
D.C, row house that combined are valued at more than $1 million.  Noble didn’t respond to phone calls, e-mails or a direct
message via Twitter seeking comment. A visit to his Capitol Hill
house went unanswered.  It will likely take another year to know what the Center to
Protect Patient Rights is doing, if anything, in this year’s
race between President Barack Obama and Republican challenger
 Mitt Romney  because of a delay in IRS filings. However, its
pattern of moving money through nonprofits is being employed by
other groups.  Hiding Sources  The Center for Individual Freedom is a nonprofit that spent
$1.3 million on 2,572 television ads during the last two weeks
of September against Democratic House candidates in seven
states. The group, which doesn’t disclose its donors, received
$2.8 million from Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies in
2010, another political nonprofit that does not disclose its
donors.  Even groups that claim to disclose contributors can hide the
source of some of their money. Priorities USA Action, a super-
political action committee that supports Obama’s re-election
bid, has received in-kind donations from its sister nonprofit,
Priorities USA, which doesn’t say where its money comes from.  Another super-PAC, FreedomWorks for America, which is
aligned with the anti-tax Tea Party movement, has spent $6.9
million on ads supporting mostly Republican candidates. The
group’s major donor is FreedomWorks, an associated nonprofit led
by Republican former House Majority Leader  Dick Armey  that
doesn’t disclose where it gets its money.  Secret Donors  “There are a group of people, donors, whose highest
priority is secrecy -- being able to spend money in the election
without it being disclosed,” said  Trevor Potter , a former FEC
chairman who is president of the Campaign Legal Center, a
Washington-based group that favors greater disclosure. “They
will go to great lengths to do this.”  David Keating , president of the Center for Competitive
Politics, an Alexandria, Virginia-based group that opposes
limits on campaign giving, disagreed. “It’s not an unusual
occurrence for nonprofits to donate to other nonprofits,” he
said. “It has to be on the public part of the tax returns. It’s
not secret. I don’t see that as a way to hide donors.”  Consulting Firm  Noble’s stewardship of the Center to Protect Patient Rights
also carried rich rewards. In 2008, he was earning $87,000 a
year as chief of staff to Representative John Shadegg, an
Arizona Republican.  Last year, Noble spent $665,000 on a Capitol Hill rowhouse.
In December he bought a 5,700-square-foot, eight-bedroom house
in Hurricane, Utah, according to public property records. He and
his wife, who have five children, also own two houses in
Phoenix, according to Maricopa County, Arizona, property
records.  His journey to the nonprofit world began in 2008 when,
after serving as Shadegg’s chief of staff for 10 years, he left
his job and set up his own political consulting firm, Noble
Associates Inc. In 2009, he signed on as  executive director  to
the Center to Protect Patient Rights. He took no salary in that
role. Instead, Noble Associates Inc. was paid $530,000 over two
years, and he hired himself to lobby for the group.  The CPPR is registered with the  Internal Revenue Service  as
a nonprofit “social welfare” group, a tax category that
permits some political activity so long as the majority of its
work is dedicated to advancing the public good through education
or awareness about issues.  Growing Tactic  That organizational structure has proliferated since the
 Citizens United  ruling, and it carries an added advantage: the
names of donors can be kept secret.  The Center to Protect Patient Rights served largely as a
way station for piles of cash that Noble forwarded to other
nonprofit groups that ran political ads, mounted direct mail
campaigns and conducted robo-calls in an unprecedented effort to
help Republicans win seats in Congress.  The CPPR took in $13.7 million in contributions in 2009,
even as its tax returns say it engaged in no fundraising. The
following year, after the Supreme Court’s ruling, contributions
almost quintupled to $61.8 million.  In the two years for which records are available, 2009 and
2010, Noble and the CPPR, whose address is a post-office box 10
miles from Noble’s Arizona home, funneled $55.4 million to other
nonprofit political organizations, including some of the
biggest-spending independent groups of the 2010 election.  American Future  In addition to 60 Plus, the CPPR gave $11.7 million to the
American Future Fund, accounting for more than half of its $23.3
million in revenue. The American Future Fund, based in Des
Moines, Iowa, opposes the new health-care law that expands
coverage to millions of uninsured Americans.  “This is one illustration of how the Supreme Court got it
wrong in Citizens United by declaring that corporations are just
like humans,” said  Paul Ryan , a lawyer with the Campaign Legal
Center. “Corporations aren’t human and they can be used as
pass-throughs, particularly to obscure the true source of funds
being used to influence elections, therefore denying voters the
information they need to make informed decisions on Election
Day.”  While there are no public records that show where the CPPR
gets its funding, Noble has ties to the Koch brothers, who
control Wichita-based Koch Industries Inc., and to their
political nonprofit, Americans for Prosperity.  Koch Connections  Noble spoke in 2010 at a Koch-sponsored gathering of wealthy
donors where they discussed how to help Republicans win the
White House and more seats in Congress. He shared a podium with
 Tim Phillips , president of Americans for Prosperity, and the
CPPR gave AFP $1.9 million in 2010. Phillips didn’t respond to a
phone call and e-mail requesting an interview. An AFP spokesman
said Noble isn’t on the group’s payroll.  The center and an organization called Patients United Now,
which was created by the Americans for Prosperity Foundation
that  David Koch  is chairman of, worked together to sponsor an
event to oppose Obama’s  health-care  overhaul in The Woodlands,
Texas, according to a flier from the event.  Groups such as the CPPR may be shuffling money between
nonprofits in order to say they donated their money to another
organization that was doing good works, several campaign finance
specialists said.  “What you can do is create this daisy chain where every
group is passing around the same million as the other groups,”
Allison of the Sunlight Foundation said. “This way it looks
like they’re fulfilling this social welfare obligation.”  The practice is akin to “wholesale  money laundering ,” said
David Vance, a spokesman at the Campaign Legal Center.  No Website  It’s unclear if the Noble’s center is still in business. It
has no website and a call to the number listed on its tax
filings was answered by a woman who said it’s now her personal
telephone number.  The center’s mail is being forward to Starlet Eiting, a
financial management professional with addresses in Texas and
Glendale, Arizona. Eiting refused to discuss the center in a
telephone interview. “I can’t give you any information,” she
said and hung up. Eiting is being paid by DCI Group, a
Washington-based political communications firm, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics.  This year, Noble, whose consulting firm is now called DC-
London Inc., has been a consultant to several congressional
candidates, including Representative Jeff Flake, an Arizona
Republican who is running for the Senate.  Consulting Business  Flake paid DC-London Inc. $49,000 last year for management
and field operations, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics and Federal Election Commission records.  Noble’s firm -- and Flake -- are benefiting from his
position at CPPR. Through the center, Noble in 2010 sent
$690,000 to the nonprofit arm of the Club for Growth, a
Washington-based group that supports less  government spending 
and lower taxes, accounting for 12 percent of the club’s entire
budget, IRS records show.  The Club for Growth on Oct. 2 announced it would spend
$500,000 on TV ads in Arizona to support Flake’s Senate
campaign. Barney Keller, a club spokesman, said the group’s
campaign spending comes from its political action committee, not
the group’s nonprofit arm. The nonprofit made in-kind
contributions to the PAC, helping to cover such expenses as
administrative costs, maintaining the website, fundraising, and
TV ad production, according to FEC filings. Keller declined to
say whether his organization was still receiving money from the
CPPR.  “It really highlights how interconnected and tightly knit
this world is,” said  Sheila Krumholz , executive director of the
Center for Responsive Politics. “A few players keep showing up
again and again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgeraldk@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  