-- Selloff May Greet Romney Victory, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-10-15T20:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/selloff-may-greet-romney-victory-deutsche-bank-says.html
A victory for Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  may result in bond and stock
selloffs as markets bet on an end to monetary stimulation that
has buoyed assets from government debt to mortgages, according
to Deutsche Bank AG.  Investors should sell intermediate-maturity Treasuries and
shorter-dated, inflation-linked debt to hedge against a Romney
win versus President Barack Obama on Nov. 6, said Dominic Konstam, global head of interest-rates research in  New York  at
Deutsche Bank, one of 21 primary dealers that trade Treasuries
with the  Federal Reserve .  “The market has been lulled into a false sense of security
that nothing is going to change with regards to monetary
policy,” Konstam said in a telephone interview. “If Romney
wins, the market will assume the worst -- that they are less
supportive for accommodative policies -- and that will take away
some of the feel-good factor for stocks and bonds that Bernanke
has engineered.”  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, has said he would
not reappoint Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , whose second four-
year term expires in January 2014. Lanhee Chen, Romney’s policy
director, said Sept. 13 that more bond purchases are “further
confirmation that President Obama’s policies have not worked.”  The Fed announced Sept. 13 it will keep its main  interest
rate  at almost zero until at least mid-2015 and buy $40 billion
of mortgage debt every month under its quantitative-easing
program in an effort to stimulate economic growth and create
jobs. The U.S.  unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell to 7.8
percent last month.  ‘Ultra-Accommodative’  “The markets are hardwired to the ultra-accommodative
stance,” Konstam said. “A Romney wins threatens the
credibility of the extended-period language.”  Bernanke said the central bank hasn’t taken into account
the November presidential and congressional elections in its
decisions. “We have tried very hard to be non-partisan and
apolitical,” he said at a press conference. “We make our
decisions entirely on the state of the economy.”  Romney has narrowed the race against President  Barack
Obama . A Washington Post/ABC poll released today put Obama’s
lead nationally over Romney at 49 percent to 46 percent, within
the survey’s margin of error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage
points. The poll of 923 likely voters was conducted Oct. 10-13.  It is unlikely that Romney will be as harsh as his campaign
rhetoric suggests as “it doesn’t make sense for either
candidate to not support an ultra-accommodative policy when they
are in office,” Konstam said. “But the market will assume the
worst unless Romney moves quickly to calm down those fears.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  