-- Singapore’s Home Sales Rebound to Highest in Three Years
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-10-15T08:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/singapore-s-september-home-sales-rebound-to-highest-in-3-years.html
Singapore  home sales rose 84 percent
last month the highest in more than three years as developers
sold more apartments after a decline in August, a month
considered inauspicious based on the Chinese lunar calendar.  Home sales in September climbed to 2,621 units from 1,427
units in the previous month, according to data released by the
 Urban Redevelopment Authority  today. That’s the highest since
July 2009, based on the data. Sales climbed 7.7 percent to 5,999
units in the three months ended Sept. 30 from the previous
quarter, the data showed.  Sales climbed after developers slowed marketing their
projects in August due to the “Hungry Ghost Month,” which is
considered an unlucky time to buy according to Chinese tradition.  Singapore  home prices  reached a record high in the third
quarter amid low interest rates, raising concerns of a housing
bubble. The  property market  may get “bubbly” even with slow
growth and the government won’t allow prices to outstrip gains
in incomes, Finance Minister  Tharman Shanmugaratnam  said at
conference in  Hong Kong  on Oct. 9.  “We are seeing pent up demand from August as developers
have increased their project launches last month after holding
back sales due to the Hungry Ghost Month,” said Nicholas Mak,
Singapore-based  executive director  at SLP International Property
Consultants. “I think we will see a decline in sales over the
next couple of months after the measures.”  The Monetary Authority of Singapore or the central bank
told banks on Oct. 5 to restrict home-loan maturities “to curb
continued upward pressure on residential property prices,” in
its latest attempt to avert a housing bubble. Homebuyers
typically avoid buying properties in the seventh month of the
lunar calendar, also known as the Hungry Ghost festival, which
is usually in the month of August.  Sales last month were boosted by suburban projects. Eco
Properties Pte sold 402 units of the 502 marketed last month in
the east, while Hoi Hup Kovan Development Pte sold 369 units of
393 in its Kovan Regency project, the data showed.  “Ample global liquidity and low  interest rates  in recent
years have contributed significantly to the strong demand for
residential property,” Khaw Boon Wan, Singapore’s minister of
National Development, said in Parliament today.  Economic Outlook  Gross domestic product fell an annualized 1.5 percent in
the three months through September from the previous quarter,
when it expanded a revised 0.2 percent, the Trade Ministry said
Oct. 12.  The government in December imposed an additional stamp duty
on foreigners and corporations buying property, and additional
levies on permanent residents buying a second home and citizens
purchasing a third residential property.  Singapore has been attempting to rein in prices since 2009,
when the government barred interest-only loans for some housing
projects and stopped allowing developers to absorb interest
payments for apartments still being built.  The government last month said it plans to cap the number
of homes that can be developed in suburban projects as it seeks
to curb the increasing trend of so-called shoebox apartments.  The island-state’s private residential property price index
rose 0.5 percent to 208 points in the three months ended Sept.
30, according to preliminary estimates released by the URA on
Oct. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  