-- Softbank-Sprint Advisers Stand to Earn Up to $200 Million
-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-10-15T19:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/softbank-sprint-advisers-stand-to-earn-up-to-200-million.html
Banks including  Citigroup (C)  Inc. and
Raine Group LLC may earn as much as $200 million working on
 Softbank Corp. (9984) ’s $20.1 billion purchase of a 70 percent stake in
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , according to researcher Freeman & Co.  Softbank’s advisers on the deal, announced today, stand to
get $70 million to $100 million, and Overland Park, Kansas-based
Sprint’s banks are in line for the same, Freeman said. Raine,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Mizuho Securities Co. provided guidance to
Tokyo-based Softbank, while Citigroup,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Rothschild
advised Sprint.  The tie-up may herald more consolidation in U.S.
telecommunications, according to  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  analyst
Jonathan Chaplin, after the worst quarter for dealmaking
globally in more than two years. Earlier this month Deutsche
Telekom AG agreed to combine its T-Mobile USA Inc. unit with
 MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , a transaction that could yield $50
million in fees, according to New York-based Freeman.  Those two deals are the largest in the telecom sector
globally this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
There have been 140 transactions in 2012, totaling almost $86
billion, the data show.  Sprint has weighed its own offer for MetroPCS, people
familiar with the situation said last week, which could throw
the T-Mobile combination in doubt. T-Mobile itself was the
target of a $39 billion takeover attempt last year by AT&T Inc.,
a transaction that collapsed following regulatory scrutiny.  Citigroup’s Team  Citigroup’s  Mark Shafir , Eric Medow and Rosanne Kurmaniak
counseled Sprint. The New York-based bank has profited from its
ties to Sprint before: It helped the third-biggest U.S. wireless
carrier complete a $1.2 billion stake purchase of  Clearwire
Corp. (CLWR)  two years ago, and got $17 million for advising on its
takeover of Nextel Communications Inc. in 2005, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  UBS bankers Larry Grafstein, Jonathan Herbst and Winston
Meade worked with Sprint, while Rothschild’s advisers included
Christopher Lawrence, Nick Melton and Justin Singh.  Jeff Sine from Raine advised Japanese carrier Softbank,
while Yuji Nomoto, Timothy Kisling and Edward Dunn led the
Deutsche Bank deal team. Fellow Softbank adviser Mizuho also
worked with Softbank on its takeover of eAccess Ltd., announced
this month.  Softbank got legal advice from Morrison & Foerster LLP, Dow
Lohnes Pllc, Mori Hamada & Matsumoto, Potter Anderson Corroon
LLP and Foulston & Siefkin LLP. Sprint received counsel from
Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP, Lawler Metzger Keeney &
Logan LLC and Polsinelli Shughart PC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Robinson in  New York  at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  