-- Solyndra Urges Court to Approve Plan Over U.S. Objections
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-10-15T21:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/solyndra-urges-court-to-approve-plan-over-u-s-objections.html
Solyndra LLC, the solar-panel maker
that received a $535 million U.S. Energy Department loan
guarantee before going bankrupt, rebuffed objections to its
bankruptcy plan from the U.S. government and urged a court to
approve the proposal.  The failed solar-panel maker fired back at the  Internal
Revenue Service , which claimed the plan can’t be approved
because its primary purpose is to avoid taxes, arguing the
plan’s focus is to maximize value for creditors, including the
government, in a court filing today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  “While the plan is structured so as to not destroy the
existing tax attributes of Holdings,  tax avoidance  is by no
means the principal purpose of the plan,” lawyers for Solyndra
said in court papers. “The principal purpose of the plan is to
maximize value for creditors -- period.”  Under the bankruptcy plan, Solyndra’s parent, 360 Degree
Solar Holdings Inc., will be reorganized while the failed solar-
panel maker will be liquidated. Reorganizing the parent would
allow it to exit bankruptcy with as much as $975 million in net
operating loss carryforwards intact. The carryforwards may
generate more than $300 million in tax breaks for 360 Degree’s
owners, Argonaut Ventures I LLC and Madrone Partners LP,
according to court documents.  The IRS claimed that as far back as December 2010, Argonaut
was devising a way to preserve the carryforwards if Solyndra had
to seek  bankruptcy protection .  ‘Complex Assets’  The bankruptcy wasn’t filed “to preserve NOLs or to take
advantage of some loophole in the Internal Revenue Code, but to
wind down a highly technical business with large and complex
assets and to address a multitude of creditor claims,” the
company’s lawyers said in the court filing.  Under the solar-panel maker’s restructuring plan, the
government might get little to nothing for its $528 million
claim from the loan guarantee. The government is projected to
recoup at most 19 percent on $142.8 million of the loan and
probably nothing on the remaining $385 million, according to the
disclosure statement. The government was the only creditor group
to reject the plan out of those allowed to vote, according to
court documents filed today.  Solyndra, based in Fremont,  California , was forced to shut
down operations and fire most of its 1,100 workers on Aug. 31,
2011. The solar-panel maker listed $854.1 million in assets and
$867.1 million in debt in court papers filed Oct. 31.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath will listen to the
arguments and decide whether to approve or deny Solyndra’s
proposal at a hearing scheduled for Oct. 17.  The case is In re Solyndra LLC, 11-12799,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  