-- Soros Says China Growth Slowing on Consumption Share Drop
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-10-15T18:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/soros-says-china-growth-slowing-on-consumption-share-drop.html
Billionaire investor  George Soros 
said China’s growth is slowing because household spending as a
percentage of the world’s second largest economy is waning.  “The growth model which has worked is running out of steam
because consumption as a percentage of GDP has fallen” to one-
third of output from half, Soros said at a National Association
for Business Economics conference in New York today. Central
bankers “will have to modify the growth model and somehow allow
the household sector to have a bigger share of the total.”  China’s economy  expanded  7.6 percent  in the second quarter
from a year earlier, the least in three years. The IMF this
month cut its estimate for  China ’s 2012 growth to 7.8 percent,
which would be the weakest pace since 1999, from 8 percent.  Soros said the unprecedented actions global central banks
have taken to stimulate growth are necessary to “prevent a
depression,” yet the “big open question” is whether they can
exit the stimulus programs when the economy rebounds without
spurring inflation. The programs include three rounds of so-
called quantitative easing by the  Federal Reserve  and the
 European Central Bank  holding its main rate at a record low 0.75
percent.  “They are engaged in a very delicate two-phase maneuver,”
Soros said. “First is to increase the quantity of money
available and then eventually they’ll have to reduce it when the
economy resumes a faster rate of growth.”  “It’s conceivable that it can be done but it hasn’t yet
been done,” Soros said. “Until then the possibility that
eventually you could have a much greater inflation at some point
is a very real one.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  