-- Sorry, U.S. Recoveries Really Aren’t Different
-- B y   C a r m e n   M .   R e i n h a r t   a n d   K e n n e t h   S .   R o g o f f
-- 2012-10-15T22:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/sorry-u-s-recoveries-really-aren-t-different.html
Five years after the onset of the
2007 subprime financial crisis, U.S.  gross domestic product per
capita  remains below its initial level. Unemployment, though
down from its peak, is still about 8 percent. Rather than the V-
shaped recovery that is typical of most postwar recessions, this
one has exhibited slow and halting growth.  This disappointing performance shouldn’t be surprising. We
have presented evidence that  recessions  associated with systemic
banking crises tend to be deep and protracted and that this
pattern is evident across both history and countries. Subsequent
academic research using different approaches and samples has
found similar results.  Recently, however, a few op-ed writers have argued that, in
fact, the U.S. is “different” and that international comparisons
aren’t relevant because of profound institutional differences
from one country to another. Some of these  authors , including
 Kevin Hassett ,  Glenn Hubbard  and  John Taylor  -- who are  advisers 
to the Republican presidential nominee,  Mitt Romney  -- as well
as Michael Bordo, who supports the candidate, have stressed that
the U.S. is also “different” in that its recoveries from
recessions associated with financial crises have been rapid and
strong. Their interpretation is at least partly based on a 2012
study by  Bordo  and Joseph Haubrich, which examines the issue for
the U.S. since 1880.  Gross Misinterpretations  We have not publicly supported or privately advised either
campaign. We well appreciate that during elections, academic
economists sometimes become advocates. It is entirely reasonable
for a scholar, in that role, to try to argue that a candidate
has a better economic program that will benefit the country in
the future. But when it comes to assessing U.S. financial
history, the license for advocacy becomes more limited, and we
have to take issue with gross misinterpretations of the facts.  This is far from the first time we have taken up the
history of U.S. financial crises. Our 2009 book, “This Time Is
Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly,” presented
results of 224 historical banking crises from around the world,
including pre-2007 banking crises in the U.S. Why is our
interpretation of the data so different than those of these
recent commentators? Is the U.S. different?  Part of the confusion may be attributed to a  failure to
distinguish  systemic financial crises from more minor ones and
from regular business cycles. A systemic financial crisis
affects a large share of a country’s  financial system . Such
occurrences are quite distinct from events that clearly fall
short of a full-blown systemic meltdown, and are referred to in
the academic literature as “borderline” crises.  The distinction between a systemic and a borderline event
is well established by widely accepted criteria long used by
many scholars, and detailed in our 2009 book.  Indeed, in our initial published study on this topic, in
2008, we showed that systemic financial crises across advanced
economies had far more serious economic consequences than
borderline ones. Our paper, written nine months before the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008,
showed that by 2007, the U.S. already displayed many of the
crucial recurring precursors of a systemic financial crisis: a
real estate bubble, high levels of  debt , chronically large
current-account deficits and signs of slowing economic activity.  Today, there can be little doubt that the U.S. has
experienced a systemic crisis -- in fact, its first since the
Great Depression. Before that, notable systemic post-Civil War
financial crises occurred in 1873, 1893 and 1907.  Defining Success  It is also important to define how a recovery is measured,
and how success is defined. The recent op-eds focus on GDP
growth immediately after the trough (usually four quarters). For
a normal recession, the restoration of positive growth is
typically a signal event. In a V-shaped recovery, the old peak
level of GDP is quickly reached, and the economy returns to
trend within a year or two.  Our book examined both levels and rates of change of per
capita GDP; recovery is defined by the time it takes for per
capita GDP to return to its pre-crisis peak level. For post-
World War II systemic crises, it took about four and a half
years to regain lost ground; in 14 Great Depression episodes
around the world (including the U.S.) it took 10 years on
average. A focus on levels, rather than percentages, is a more
robust way to capture the trajectory of an economy where the
recovery is more U- or L-shaped than V-shaped.  It also is a way to avoid exaggerating the strength of the
recovery when a deep recession is followed by a large cumulative
decline in the level GDP. An 8 percent decline followed by an 8
percent increase doesn’t bring the economy back to its starting
point.  Taylor , for example, appears to show the recovery from the
Great Depression as the strongest in U.S. history, even though
it took about a decade to reach the same level of per capita
income as at its starting point in 1929.  Working with long historical series, we have stressed per-
capita measures because U.S.  population growth  has fallen from 2
percent a year in the late 1800s to less than 1 percent in more
recent times. Put differently, in the early 1900s, a year with 2
percent real GDP growth left the average person’s income
unchanged; in the modern context, 2 percent annual GDP growth
means an increase of slightly more than 1 percent in real income
per person. The impact of cumulative population growth even
within an individual crisis episode is significant, as the
recovery process usually spans four to 10 years.  Even allowing for all the above doesn’t seem to entirely
account for the differences between our interpretation and the
conclusions of the Hassett-Hubbard, Bordo and Taylor op-eds.  1907 Panic  Take the Panic of 1907, which fits the standard criteria of
a systemic crisis (and one with a global dimension at that).
We certainly would count that one. The narrative in the Bordo-
Haubrich paper emphasizes that “the 1907-1908 recession was
followed by vigorous recovery.” Yet, as we show below, the level
of real GDP per capita in the U.S. didn’t return to its pre-
crisis peak of 1906 until 1912. Is that a vigorous recovery? The
unemployment rate (which we routinely include in our comparisons
but the Bordo-Haubrich study doesn’t consider) was 1.7 percent
in 1906, climbed to 8 percent in 1908, and didn’t return to the
pre-crisis low until 1918.  The aftermath of the systemic banking crisis of 1893 is
worse than the period after the 1907 episode, and the Depression
of the 1930s is worse still. According to our 2009 metrics, the
aftermath of the most recent U.S. financial crisis has been
quite typical of systemic financial crises around the globe in
the postwar era. If one really wants to focus just on U.S.
systemic financial crises, then the recent recovery looks
positively brisk.  We examine four systemic financial crises the U.S. has
experienced since 1870: 1873 (called the Great Depression until
the 1930s), 1893, the Panic of 1907 and the Great Depression.  Given that all of these crises predate the creation of
 deposit insurance  in 1933, and that three of the four events
predate the establishment of a U.S. central bank, one could
legitimately quibble with the claim that the relevant
institutions are more comparable across centuries in the U.S.
than across advanced countries over the past 30 years. We would
argue that our 2009 international postwar benchmarks, along with
comparisons for the recent crisis, are more relevant.  Nonetheless, the comparison across systemic U.S. financial
crises doesn’t support the view that:  -- the U.S. recoveries from pre-World War II systemic
crises were any swifter than the general cross-country pattern;  -- in the aftermath of the 2007 crisis, the U.S. has
performed worse than in previous systemic crises, In fact, so
far, it has performed better in terms of output per capita and
unemployment. This is true even if one excludes the Great
Depression.  Of course, standard errors have to be taken with a grain of
salt for such small samples. That is an important reason why our
earlier research also incorporates international comparisons, as
well as multiple indicators of macroeconomic performance. But if
one focuses on U.S. data only, let’s at least acknowledge what
the evidence shows.  The Evidence  The reader may wish to note that our comparisons relate to
the period dating from the onset of the crisis, and don’t
delineate between the “recession” period and the “recovery”
period.  We have explained elsewhere why this distinction is
somewhat meaningless in the aftermath of a financial crisis, as
false dawns make it very difficult to detect the start of a
lasting recovery in real time. That is why we have consistently
argued that the popular term “Great Recession” is something of a
misnomer for the current episode, which we have argued would be
better thought of as “the Second Great Contraction” (after
 Milton Friedman  and Anna Schwartz’s characterization of the
Great Depression as the Great Contraction).  We anchor the crisis episode at the peak of economic
activity, which usually occurs either the year immediately
before the crisis or the crisis year itself. For real per capita
GDP, we use the Total Economy Database, a multicountry database
established by Angus Maddison and now updated by the Conference
Board. The most recent annual observation is 2011. The U.S. data
are available from 1870 onward. For U.S.  unemployment , the data
is taken from the Historical Statistics of the  United States ,
where the unemployment-rate series is available from 1890 onward
(and is consistent with the Bureau of Labor Statistics for the
modern era.)  Figure 1 (attached) compares the still unfolding (2007)
financial crisis with U.S. systemic financial crises of 1873,
1893, 1907 and 1929. As the figure illustrates, the initial
contraction in per-capita GDP is smaller for the recent crisis
than in the earlier ones (even when the Great Depression of the
1930s is excluded). Five years later, the current level of per-
capita GDP, relative to baseline, is higher than the
corresponding five-crisis average that includes the 1930s. The
recovery of per-capita GDP after 2007 is also slightly stronger
than the average for the systemic crises of 1873, 1893 and 1907.
Although not as famous as the Great Depression, the depression
of the 1890s was dismal; in 1896, real per-capita GDP was still
6 percent below its pre-crisis level of 1892.  Peak GDP  So how many years did it take for per-capita GDP to return
to its peak at the onset of the crisis? For the 1873 and 1893
(peak is 1892) crises, it was five years; for the Panic of 1907
(peak is 1906), it was six years; for the Depression, it took 11
years. In output per capita timelines, at least, it is difficult
to argue that “the U.S. is different.” It can hardly be said to
have enjoyed vigorous output per capita recoveries from past
systemic financial crises.  The notion that the U.S. exhibits rapid recovery from
systemic financial crises doesn’t emerge from the unemployment
data, either. That data only begin in 1890, eliminating the 1873
crisis from the pool. The aftermaths of the remaining four
crises are shown in Figure 2 (attached).  The 2007 crisis is associated with significantly lower
unemployment rates than both the Depression of the 1930s and the
depression of the 1890s; it is more in line with the
unemployment increases observed after the Panic of 1907. As
shown in the inset to Figure 2, the unemployment rate was 1.7
percent in 1906 and almost 6 percent five years later. In the
1893 crisis, the unemployment rate started at 3 percent in 1892,
shot up to more than 18 percent, and remained above 14 percent
in 1896. In effect, the unemployment rate doesn’t dip below 3
percent until 1906 (on the eve of the next crisis).  The pattern during the Great Depression of the 1930s is off
the charts ( Barry Eichengreen  and Kevin H. O’Rourke’s 2010  study 
is a must-read on this comparison). These historical U.S.
episodes are in line with the 2010  findings  of Carmen and
 Vincent Reinhart , who examine severe/systemic financial crises
in both advanced economies and  emerging markets  in the decade
after World War II. They document that in 10 of 15 episodes the
unemployment rate had not returned to its pre-crisis level in
the decade after the crisis. For the 1893 crisis and the 1929
Depression, it was 14 years; for 1907, it took 12 years for the
unemployment rate to return to its pre-crisis level.  Recurring Features  Although no two crises are identical, we have found that
there are some recurring features that cut across time and
national borders. Common patterns in the nature of the long
boom-bust cycles in debt and their relationship to economic
activity emerge as a common thread across very diverse
institutional settings.  The most recent U.S. crisis appears to fit the more general
pattern of a recovery from severe financial crisis that is more
protracted than with a normal recession or milder forms of
financial distress. There is certainly little evidence to
suggest that this time was worse. Indeed, if one compares U.S.
output per capita and employment performance with those of other
countries that suffered systemic financial crises in 2007-08,
the U.S. performance is better than average.  This doesn’t mean that policy is irrelevant, of course. On
the contrary, at the depth of the recent financial crisis, there
was almost certainly a risk of a second Great Depression.
However, although it is clear that the challenges in recovering
from financial crises are daunting, an early recognition of
the likely depth and duration of the problem would certainly
have been helpful, particularly in assessing various responses
and their attendant risks. Policy choices also matter going
forward.  It is not our intention to closely analyze policy responses
that may take years of study to sort out. Rather, our aim is to
dismiss the misconception that the U.S. is somehow different.
The latest financial crisis, yet again, proved it is not.  (Carmen M. Reinhart is Minos A. Zombanakis professor of the
international financial system at  Harvard University ’s Kennedy
School of Government. Kenneth S. Rogoff is a professor of public
policy and economics at Harvard University. They are co-authors
of “This Time is Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly.”
The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how  Spain  can stop  Catalonian
secession  and on  Romney’s still-missing numbers ;  Edward Glaeser 
on the  winner of the economics Nobel ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on
Republicans using the  Benghazi attack to undermine Obama ;
 Michael Kinsley  on checking  candidates’ arguments  instead of
facts; William Pesek on  “Gangnam Style” and South Korea’s
economy ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on why  both candidates are wrong on
China .  To contact the writers of this article:
Carmen M. Reinhart at  Carmen_Reinhart@harvard.edu ;
Kenneth S. Rogoff at  krogoff@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 