-- South Africa’s $40 Billion Water Gap Threatens Economy
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2012-10-15T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/south-africa-s-40-billion-water-gap-threatens-economy.html
Concrete patches on the canals
snaking through Nico Greeff’s vineyards betray constant repairs
to an outmoded irrigation system that’s the lifeblood of farming
in  South Africa ’s arid west.  “The water infrastructure is about 60 years old and the
lifespan of a surfaced canal is about 40 years,” Greeff, 55,
said on his farm near Vredendal, north of  Cape Town . “Sometimes
there are breakages on the canal system, which interrupts
supplies. We can have a lot of damage to our crops.”  Crumbling canals, dams and pipelines and a lack of funds to
expand, replace and maintain them threatens to stymie economic
growth and efforts to tackle a 25 percent unemployment rate in
 Africa ’s biggest economy.  Water infrastructure requires investment of 670 billion
rand ($76 billion) over the next decade, the Department of Water
Affairs said in an Aug. 17 study. That’s almost double the
available funding, leaving a gap of 338 billion rand. The report
says businesses need to anticipate supply disruptions, higher
bills and more regulation in a country that gets less rain than
neighbors Namibia and  Botswana , famed for their deserts.  South Africa’s platinum and coal industries, two of the
country’s top four exporters, are already struggling to secure
water supplies for new projects.  “Water is certainly one of the major risks that we look
at,” said Paul Skivington, group executive for strategy and
risk at  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the world’s second-
largest producer of the precious metal. “It’s not something you
can generate. It’s either there or it’s not.”  Supply Shortages  Leaking pipes and inefficient irrigation already wastes at
least half the clean water in some areas, according to the
study. While rains over the past 16 years have helped avert
shortages, the government expects demand to outstrip supply by
2025-2030, constraining farming and mining.  The dilemma is shared around the world as the United
Nations projects that about 30 countries will be water-scarce by
2025, compared with 20 in 1990. Chinese officials in February
said water shortages are growing, with two-thirds of the cities
suffering a dearth. Concerns over water have led farmers in
 India  to block roads and rail lines, even committing suicide, to
protest coal plant construction that affects irrigation
supplies. Water shortages and grazing land disputes in  Kenya ,
 East Africa ’s biggest economy, have led to deadly conflicts.  In South Africa, water use has surged since apartheid’s end
in 1994. The economy has more than doubled in size and 95
percent of the 50.6 million population now has access to potable
water within 200 meters (656 feet) of their homes. From 1995 to
2005 municipal water use per capita rose by 38 percent,
according to the UN Food and Agriculture Organization.  Power Shortages  Investment in water infrastructure has lagged behind as the
government focuses on other spending priorities, including new
 power plants  to avoid a repeat of electricity shortages that
shut mines and factories in 2008.  Power projects account for about 61 percent of 3.2 trillion
rand worth of infrastructure projects the government is
considering implementing by 2020, while water accounts for just
2 percent, according to the National Treasury.  “There’s no water for expansion,” said Greeff, a third-
generation farmer who exports table grapes and provides jobs for
20 families. “Industries and towns get bigger and bigger and
then they take water away from the farmers.”  Farming uses about 60 percent of South Africa’s water,
while about 5.5 percent goes to mines and factories. The country
is the world’s biggest orange exporter and matches the U.S. as
the world’s largest grapefruit exporter, U.S. Department of
Agriculture data shows.  Export Generator  While most mines have sufficient water, platinum operations
in arid areas risk running dry, Nikisi Lesufi, senior executive
of health and environment at the Chamber of Mines, said in an
interview. Platinum mines employed 182,000 people in 2010, 37
percent of the mining workforce, Chamber data shows.  Water scarcity constitutes a “very real” threat,
Johannesburg-based  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the world’s
largest producer of the metal, said in a 2011 report.  Impala needs additional water for its Afplats project and
the company is trying to cut use at all its mines and plants,
Skivington said in an interview from Johannesburg.  Insufficient water could prove the biggest constraint to
mining coal in the Waterberg region,  Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX)  said
on its website. Waterberg, in Limpopo Province, has about 75
billion metric tons of it, or 40 percent of South Africa’s coal
resources, state power utility Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd. says.  Water Needed  “The coal resources in this province without further water
supply will not be able to be exploited,” Xavier Prevost, an
industry consultant, said from  Pretoria .  South Africa’s biggest water consumer is Eskom, which
generates about 95 percent of the country’s power. Eskom has
started a 500 billion-rand expansion to avoid blackouts, placing
pressure on resources as it is given priority.  “We see water costs more than doubling in five years,”
Nandha Govender, Eskom’s general manager of water and
environmental affairs, said from Muldersdrift, north of
Johannesburg.  The government seeks to curtail demand and waste and is
pushing for greater use of groundwater, recycling and
desalination.  “We don’t want development to be held back,” Helgaard
Muller, deputy director-general at the water affairs department,
said in Pretoria on August 27. “We can stretch what we have.”  Greeff doesn’t have faith in government plans even after
President  Jacob Zuma  pledged in a February address to expand the
Clanwilliam dam on which he relies.  “It will take donkey years,” Greeff said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  