-- Soybean Gene Find May Ward Off $1 Billion Pest
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-10-15T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/soybean-gene-find-may-ward-off-1-billion-pest.html
Scientists have identified a soybean
gene responsible for making some varieties resistant to the cyst
nematode, a pest responsible for $1 billion in annual crop
losses.  The gene wards off nematodes by making an enzyme that
starves the pest or acts as a natural pesticide, according to a
paper released today in the journal  Nature . The study is the
first to identify the gene and its mechanism for creating
resistance, said lead authors Melissa Mitchum of the  University
of Missouri  in Columbia and Khalid Meksem of Southern Illinois
University in Carbondale.  The soybean cyst nematode can cut crop yields 50 percent
and cause $1 billion in losses in the  $42.2 billion  annual U.S.
crop, making it the top soybean pathogen,  Greg Tylka , a plant
pathology professor at  Iowa State University . Knowing which gene
is responsible for natural resistance will help breeders
identify the hardiest varieties and could lead to genetically
modified soybeans with complete resistance, he said.  “This could speed up breeding for soybean cyst nematode
resistance by a quantum leap,” Tylka, who wasn’t involved with
the Nature study, said today by telephone from Ames,  Iowa . “It
will allow traditional breeding to be very precise.”  The soybean cyst nematode starts life as a  microscopic worm 
that burrows into soybean roots, where the female feeds and
swells into a leathery, lemon-sized cyst full of eggs. The eggs
are “time released,” hatching over the course of a decade or
more, so rotation with other crops does little to eradicate the
pests from a field, Tylka said.  Asian Import  Soybeans have been bred to resist the cyst nematode, an
import from  Asia , since it was first discovered in the U.S. in
1954, Tylka said. Resistant varieties remain imperfect, with
damage occurring to varying degrees depending on the plant and
the type of cyst nematode in the field, he said.  Identification of a second soybean gene for cyst nematode
resistance is needed before plants can be created that offer
complete resistance, Tylka said. In the near term, researchers
may want to focus on how the newly discovered enzyme-producing
gene confers resistance.  In addition to breeding soybeans for resistance to
nematodes,  Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s biggest seed company, has
an early-stage research project on a bean that is genetically
modified to resist the pest, Sara E. Miller, a spokeswoman for
the St. Louis-based company, said in an e-mail. Monsanto, which
in 2008 made public its sequence of the soybean cyst nematode
genome, also is developing a seed treatment to control
nematodes, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  