-- Sprint $8 Billion War Chest Threatens AT&T-Verizon Reign
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-10-16T22:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/sprint-8-billion-war-chest-threatens-at-t-verizon-reign.html
Softbank Corp. (9984) ’s $20 billion deal
with  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  gives Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse 
the firepower to bring renewed competition to the U.S. mobile-
phone industry, creating benefits for consumers and challenges
for AT&T Inc. and  Verizon Wireless .  Softbank, based in  Tokyo , will deposit $8 billion into
Hesse’s war chest as part of a deal in which the Japanese
company will take a 70 percent stake in the third-largest U.S.
wireless operator. The money will allow the CEO to improve
Sprint’s network, compete for the latest smartphones, reduce
debt and potentially make acquisitions.  The deal marks a turnaround for Hesse, 58, who took over
five years ago in the aftermath of the failed Nextel merger and
hasn’t booked an annual profit since. Just last year, he warned
that the U.S. wireless market was headed toward a duopoly and
that Sprint’s survival as an independent company was in doubt.
With Softbank’s backing, Hesse has the cash and investor support
to challenge his larger rivals like never before.  “This opens strategic options we have not had at any time
during my tenure,” said Hesse on a conference call yesterday.
“Sprint, for the first time in many years, will have the
strengthened flexibility to play a key role in the evolution of
the industry.”  Cash Infusion  The deal has major risks for both sides. For Softbank, the
agreement will mean taking on $19 billion in debt to expand into
the U.S. market, where foreign companies have often fared
poorly. Its stock plunged the most ever after the deal was made
public. For Sprint, it will still have to compete against rivals
that are twice as large, with the additional burden of answering
to owners 14 time zones ahead.  Softbank,  Japan ’s third-largest wireless carrier, is
creating U.S. holding entities to make the acquisition, the
companies said. About 55 percent of Sprint  stock  will be bought
for $7.30 a share in cash, and the rest will convert into 30
percent of a newly capitalized company, which will include the
$8 billion cash infusion, Sprint said in a presentation to
investors. Softbank will also receive a warrant to purchase 55
million additional Sprint shares at an exercise price of $5.25
per share.  Sprint, based in  Overland Park ,  Kansas , was unchanged at
$5.69 at the close in New York.  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  slid 17 percent
after doubling in the prior three trading days as investors
speculated that Sprint would seek to build on its 48 percent
stake in the Bellevue, Washington-based wholesale carrier to
gain more capacity for mobile data service.  Market Leaders  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , which controls the biggest
U.S. wireless company, fell 0.9 percent, and Dallas-based AT&T,
the second-largest, rose 0.5 percent. Sprint is a distant third
behind Verizon and AT&T, which together have about 75 percent of
U.S. wireless customers on contracts, according to Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  Hesse has come a long way since October 2011, when
participants in an investor meeting complained about a lack of
forecasts for profits and revenue as Sprint spent to improve its
network and to begin selling Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  Both of those endeavors are helping Sprint’s comeback. The
iPhone helped boost the amount subscribers spend on their
monthly phone bills by 6.6 percent in the  first quarter  of this
year compared to a year earlier. Sprint began offering LTE
service in five cities in July, with plans to add more this
year.  ‘Much Stronger’  “People perceive he’s made operational improvements to the
company and is now bringing in cash to help it succeed,”  Walter Piecyk , an analyst at BTIG LLC in New York, said of Hesse in an
interview yesterday. “Within a year, we could see Sprint in a
much stronger technology position than AT&T and Verizon” if
Sprint uses its newfound cash to acquire Clearwire, he said.  Mike DiGioia, a spokesman for Clearwire, declined to
comment, as did Torod Neptune, a spokesman for Basking Ridge,
New Jersey-based Verizon Wireless, and  Mark Siegel , a spokesman
for AT&T.  Hesse’s new ally is Masayoshi Son, the 55-year-old
billionaire who controls Softbank. Like Hesse, Son said
yesterday he views the U.S. market as a duopoly ripe for an
ambitious third party that can use high-speed Internet plans to
lure users.  “For a challenger like us, the market is offering a
compelling opportunity, maybe like what Softbank has gone
through in Japan,” Son said on a conference call.  Son acquired  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s mobile-phone business in
Japan in 2006 and helped the company boost net income sevenfold
over the past four years, aided by becoming the country’s first
carrier for the iPhone and iPad.  “Japanese companies are not necessarily known for fast
decision-making, but we have a slightly different case in
Softbank.” said David Heger, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co.
“We have a very aggressive company and a fast-moving CEO.”  Investors Balk  Son’s strategy was too aggressive for Softbank investors,
who have  sold  off the company’s shares on concern it will pile
on too much debt to fund the acquisition. Softbank shares closed
at 2,485 yen, down 14 percent from Oct. 11, when the company’s
talks with Sprint were first reported.  Standard & Poor’s  placed Softbank’s debt rating of BBB on
watch for a possible downgrade, saying the transaction could
hurt Softbank’s risk profile.  With Sprint’s 56.4 mobile-phone subscriptions, Softbank
will have a total of 96 million wireless lines across the U.S.
and Japan, boosting its negotiating leverage to get lower prices
from handset makers and network equipment manufacturers. That
will help Hesse compete against the buying power of  AT&T (T)  and
Verizon, Heger said.  More Deals?  Sprint could also use its new funding to purchase the rest
of Clearwire or bid for  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , people
familiar with the matter have said. While Hesse said yesterday
that the U.S. wireless market offers a “significant
consolidation opportunity,” he declined to discuss specific
transactions.  Softbank and Sprint are focused on closing their deal over
the next six to eight months and can’t engage in further mergers
or acquisitions until that work is complete, people with direct
knowledge of the situation said yesterday. Clearwire dropped to
$2.23 after closing yesterday at $2.69.  Acquiring the rest of Clearwire would give Hesse the
capacity he needs to keep offering unlimited data plans without
saturating Sprint’s network, said  Charles Golvin , an analyst at
Forrester Research. That will put more competitive pressure on
AT&T and Verizon, which no longer offer unlimited plans, he
said.  Winning Consumers  Hesse should commit to keep providing low-priced data plans
to show consumers Sprint is serious about winning their favor,
said  Joel Kelsey , legislative director at Free Press, a
Florence, Massachusetts, policy group.  “This deal has the potential to do great things for
consumers,” he said. “If the deal didn’t come through, Sprint
would have built its network much more slowly. It would have
meant a longer wait time for better coverage and doing away with
unlimited plans.”  Scott Sloat , a Sprint spokesman, said in an e-mail that
“we believe unlimited data plans are a key differentiator and
have not announced any plans to move away from them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Crayton Harrison at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net  