-- Sprint 55% Get Best Payout Since ’99 as Softbank Sinks
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-10-16T20:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/sprint-55-get-best-payout-since-99-as-softbank-sinks.html
For  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  investors
that get to cash out on 55 percent of their stock, the deal with
 Softbank (9984)  Corp. represents the mobile-phone industry’s steepest
premium in more than a decade for a company languishing at the
cheapest valuation.  Japan ’s third-biggest mobile-phone operator announced an
agreement yesterday to buy out about 55 percent of Sprint’s
stock for $7.30 a share in a deal that will ultimately give
Softbank a 70 percent controlling stake and infuse the U.S.
carrier with $8 billion of new capital to help reduce debt. The
36 percent premium to the stock’s 20-day average is the largest
since 1999 and the third-highest on record for cellular
telecommunications acquisitions of more than $5 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sprint Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse , seeking to
challenge bigger rivals  Verizon Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
combat the industry’s lowest price-sales ratio, secured an offer
that’s more than triple the  stock ’s closing level in 2011. While
the remaining shares will convert into only a 30 percent stake
in the new company and Softbank will be able to purchase more at
$5.25 apiece, the deal has wiped out a fifth of the Tokyo-based
acquirer’s market value and jeopardized its credit ratings.  “It’s nice to be able to cash out,”  Craig Moffett , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. “Whatever uncertainty was out there about
Sprint’s prospects is, for the time being, taken away. Softbank
shareholders obviously don’t think much of the deal” because of
“how much they’re paying and how much debt that Softbank will
be taking on,” he said.  Overseas Growth  “This transaction benefits both companies by providing
Softbank the opportunity to apply lessons learned in Japan to a
larger, faster growing market and create significant value for
shareholders,”  Scott Sloat , a spokesman for  Overland Park ,
Kansas-based Sprint, said in an e-mailed statement. The deal
also gives Sprint “significant new financial flexibility,
allowing for strategic investment and supporting its development
of a next-generation high-speed network.”  Softbank will pay $12.1 billion to Sprint shareholders in
addition to investing the $8 billion of new capital. The $20.1
billion transaction will help Softbank add growth overseas after
handset shipments in Japan tumbled 27 percent from 2007 through
the end of 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Softbank also will receive a warrant to purchase 55 million
additional shares in the new company at an exercise price of
$5.25 a share.  Billionaire Son  Sprint’s stock  closed at $5.69 yesterday. The shares won’t
climb as high as $7.30 because only 55 percent are being bought
out at that price, Moffett said. He estimates that the ongoing
business is worth about $4 a share.  “The shares are going to trade at the blended average of
the $7.30 partial tender plus what you think the stock is
actually worth,” Moffett said. “At the end of the day,
shareholders are going to get $7.30 for some of their shares,
but the rest of them are going to be trading at a valuation
that’s set by expectations for the company itself.”  Today, shares of Sprint were unchanged at $5.69.  Combined, Sprint and Softbank will create the world’s
third-largest mobile-phone services provider by revenue,
billionaire Masayoshi Son, Softbank’s president, said yesterday
on a conference call. The group will have 96 million users after
the transaction, according to a presentation to investors
yesterday.  ‘Financial Flexibility’  “The U.S. is a large and growing mobile market, with the
highest smartphone penetration in the world and high revenue per
user, yet it is hampered by relatively slow network speeds,”
 John Christiansen , a spokesman for Softbank, said in an e-mailed
statement. “This presents tremendous growth opportunities for
Softbank, and we think this is an equally great deal for both
companies.”  Hesse will remain CEO, and the boards of both companies
have approved the deal, which is expected to close by mid-2013,
according to the statement.  Softbank’s $8 billion cash infusion will reduce Sprint’s
 net debt  to about $6.5 billion from $14.5 billion, according to
the presentation.  “We have been at a significant disadvantage with a weak
balance sheet and a competitive environment dominated by two
very well capitalized and much larger competitors,” Hesse told
analysts on yesterday’s conference call. The investment will
give Sprint the “financial flexibility to pursue opportunities
and strategic options that would not be possible with our
current  balance sheet .”  Network Overhaul  Sprint has no immediate plans to take over Clearwire Corp.,
people with direct knowledge of the situation said yesterday.
Softbank’s and Sprint’s priority is to close the deal, which
will take six to eight months, and until the deal is completed,
the companies can’t engage in extraordinary activities such as
further mergers or acquisitions, these people said.  Today, Clearwire shares fell 17 percent to $2.23.  Sprint is overhauling its network to use a faster
technology called long-term evolution, or LTE. The Softbank deal
should help Sprint build out the network and better compete with
larger rivals, said Matthew DiFilippo, who helps manage $1.1
billion as chief portfolio strategist at Stewart Capital in
 Indiana ,  Pennsylvania .  “Sprint was facing the struggle of a high debt load and
that impaired its ability to invest in its network and keep up
with Verizon and, to a lesser extent, AT&T,” DiFilippo said in
phone interview. “This deal gives them the ability to perhaps
close the competitive gap, or maybe just see that that gap
doesn’t get any larger.”  Deal Premium  Even after  surging  143 percent this year, Sprint traded
yesterday at a 51 percent discount to its revenue in the last 12
months. That’s the lowest price-sales multiple among U.S.
telecom carriers with a market capitalization of more than $2
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The $7.30 purchase price for the 55 percent of the stock
being bought out is rewarding Sprint investors at a level the
shares haven’t reached since 2008. The 36 percent premium
compares with an average of 23 percent among cellular
telecommunications deals valued at more than $5 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s a terrific deal for Sprint shareholders,” Keith Trauner, a Miami-based  money manager  at GoodHaven Capital
Management LLC, which oversees about $325 million, including
Sprint shares, said in a phone interview. “It takes a company
whose balance sheet was quite stretched to a point where, if
they don’t do anything foolish with capital, their balance sheet
now looks far better.”  ‘Make Money’  Softbank’s $20.1 billion deal would be a Japan-based
company’s largest publicly announced acquisition of a non-
Japanese business since at least 2000, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “The only reason Softbank is making this investment is
because they think they can make money off of it,” Scott Schermerhorn, chief investment officer of Concord, New
Hampshire-based Granite Investment Advisors Inc., which oversees
about $550 million, including Sprint  shares , said in a phone
interview. “They think the stock is worth more than $7.30, or
why would they bother?”  The deal allows Sprint “to accelerate things quicker as
far as building out their LTE network, so that’s of value,” he
said.  ‘Huge Gamble’  The combined company would garner $32 billion in mobile-
phone sales, placing it just behind Verizon Wireless with $37
billion and on par with AT&T, Sprint and Softbank said in
yesterday’s presentation.  Since Softbank doesn’t currently operate in the U.S., the
deal with Sprint won’t garner the same cost-saving benefits that
 T-Mobile USA  and  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  can achieve
through their planned merger, according to Tom Burnett, director
of research and vice chairman at Wall Street Access, which
specializes in mergers and event-driven research.  Softbank had plunged 21 percent since the Nikkei newspaper
first reported last week that the mobile-phone seller was in
talks to buy Sprint, reducing its market value to 2.5 trillion
yen ($32 billion) yesterday. The stock closed yesterday at 2,268
yen in  Tokyo , the lowest since April.  Today, shares of Softbank rose 9.6 percent to 2,485 yen.  Given the risks tied to the deal, Softbank investors “are
voting with their feet” and abandoning the stock,  New York- 
based Burnett said in a phone interview. “It’s a huge gamble.
This is a new culture, a new regulatory world” and “there’s
some very significant competitive pressures over here that
pushed Sprint down in the first place.”  Credit Downgrade  With the deal to be funded through cash on hand and a
syndicated loan, Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday that
it may cut Softbank’s Baa3  credit  grade to junk because of the
additional debt. High-yield, high-risk or junk bonds are rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .
Later the same day, Moody’s said Sprint’s B1 rating, which is
four levels below investment grade, may be raised.  While Softbank’s debt ratings are in question, for Sprint
stockholders this deal is “manna from heaven,” said  Michael Holland , who oversees more than $4 billion in assets as chairman
of New York-based Holland & Co.  “The wonderful thing about the stock market is you get an
immediate vote,” Holland said in a phone interview. “And the
vote here is that this is a much better deal for Sprint
shareholders than it is for Softbank.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  