-- Sugar Glut Extending to Longest in More Than Decade: Commodities
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r ,   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-10-16T20:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/sugar-glut-extending-to-longest-in-more-than-decade-commodities.html
The global sugar glut is extending
into a third year, the longest stretch in more than a decade, as
 Brazil  and  Australia  expand output and imports contract to the
smallest since 2008.  Production will exceed demand by 5.9 million metric tons in
the year that began Oct. 1, more than the U.S. consumes in six
months, the International Sugar Organization estimates. Global
supply including inventories will be the highest ever, the
London-based group says. Raw-sugar futures traded in  New York 
may drop 11 percent to 18 cents a pound by the end of the year,
according to the median of 15 estimates from traders and
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures fell 44 percent since reaching a three-decade high
of 36.08 cents in February 2011 as farmers from  Russia  to
 Thailand  planted more crops. The drop is moderating global  food 
prices that the  United Nations  says rose 7.7 percent in the past
three months as drought and heat waves wilted U.S. and European
wheat, corn and soybeans. Lower prices are helping to cut costs
for food companies including  Nestle SA (NESN) , which spent about 1.5
billion Swiss francs ($1.6 billion) last year on sugar.  “The surplus is probably getting worse,” said  Jonathan Kingsman , the chief executive officer of Lausanne, Switzerland-
based research company Kingsman SA who has traded sugar for more
three decades. “More sugar will have to be stockpiled on lack
of demand and we would expect prices to stay under pressure.”  Raw Materials  Sugar retreated 13 percent to 20.17 cents on the ICE
Futures U.S. exchange this year, extending a 27 percent slump in
2011. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture  index  of eight  raw
materials  jumped 10 percent this year, and the MSCI All-Country
World  Index (MXWD)  of equities advanced 12 percent. Treasuries returned
2.2 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Production will rise 2.3 percent to a record 177.4 million
tons this season as demand advances 1.9 percent to 171.5 million
tons, according to the ISO, which has more than 80  member
states . Output rose 19 percent in the past four years and
consumption 6 percent. Supply including inventories will gain
3.7 percent to an all-time high of 240.6 million tons as imports
contract 6.5 percent, the ISO says.  Brazil, the biggest grower, will produce 38.1 million tons
this season, 11 percent more than a year earlier, the ISO
estimates. While Russian supply will be little changed at 5.4
million tons, production is up 53 percent from two years ago,
when drought decimated the country’s crop, the ISO estimates.  Soybean Yields  China , the second-biggest consumer after  India , will
probably limit annual  imports  to no more than 1 million tons
through 2015, Liu Hande, vice chairman of the China Sugar
Association, said in a speech in Singapore on Sept. 27. The
nation bought 3.3 million tons in the past season, the ISO
estimates. Domestic production will reach 14 million tons, from
11.5 million tons, boosting stockpiles to a record, Liu said.  Just as heat and drought curbed corn, wheat and soybean
yields this year, so sugar output may be diminished by extreme
weather. Production in India, the second-biggest grower, will
probably drop almost 10 percent to 23.5 million tons this season
because of lower-than-average rainfall, according to ED&F Man
Commodities India Pvt., a unit of the commodities trader founded
more than two centuries ago.  Sugar prices at the factory gate in India may rise 19
percent to 40 rupees a kilogram (34 cents a pound) by January,
according to Narendra Murkumbi, the managing director of  Shree
Renuka Sugars Ltd. (SHRS) , the country’s top refiner. While most of the
cane-growing regions are irrigated, there wasn’t enough water
left in the reservoirs supplying them to compensate for a below-
average monsoon, according to Rabobank International.  Farmers Reap  Dry weather will probably curb production in Thailand, the
second-biggest shipper, said Piromsak Sasunee, chief executive
officer of Thai Sugar Trading Corp., the nation’s largest
exporter. Farmers will reap as little as 92 million tons of cane
this season, yielding about 9.8 million tons of sugar, he said.
That compares with 98 million tons and 10.2 million tons in the
past season, government data show.  More producers in Brazil may switch to ethanol as sugar
prices decline, according to Abah Ofon, an agricultural analyst
at Standard Chartered Plc in Singapore. The country is set to be
the biggest exporter of the fuel this season and futures rose 6
percent to $2.383 a gallon on the Chicago Board of Trade this
year.  Bullish Bets  Nestle, the maker of Smarties and Aero candy, expects to
see “a little bit of lighter pressure” from raw materials in
the second half, Chief Executive Officer  Paul Bulcke  told
analysts on a conference call last month. Shares of the Vevey,
Switzerland-based company rose 15 percent to 62 francs this year
and will  trade  at 62.43 francs in 12 months, according to the
consensus of 30 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Hedge funds  pared bullish bets on sugar by 48 percent since
the start of March, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data show. They held a net 75,479  contracts  in the week ended
Oct. 9, compared with a five-year average of about 114,000
contracts. Open interest in raw-sugar futures contracted about
12 percent since mid-June, valuing the ICE Futures U.S. market
at about $15.4 billion, bourse data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Australia, the third-biggest shipper, may produce 4.5
million tons in the year started July 1, up from 3.7 million
tons a year earlier, according to the Australian government’s
forecasting unit. Farmers planted more cane and hot, dry weather
raised yields.  Pakistan  may export 1 million tons this season after
better-than-average rainfall boosted crops, according to the
country’s Sugar Mills Association. That compares with sales of
only 137,000 tons this year since January, the group says.  “There are mounting expectations that supply could
outstrip consumption in the coming quarters,” said  Michael Creed , an agribusiness economist at National Australia Bank Ltd.
in  Melbourne . “Inventories are set to increase.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  