-- U.K. Could Save $17 Billion a Year by Cutting Power Demand
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-10-16T13:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/u-k-could-save-17-billion-a-year-by-cutting-power-demand.html
The U.K. could wipe 10.9 billion
pounds ($17 billion) off its annual energy bill by 2030 with the
introduction of incentives designed to cut electricity demand
during the switch to a low-carbon market, a  study  showed today.  The savings in the form of so-called negawatts, a
theoretical unit of power representing energy saved, would
reduce the need to build more wind farms, nuclear plants and
fossil-fuel power stations, according to environmental policy
group Green Alliance and WWF.  The measures should be introduced into a bill the
government plans before the end of the year to overhaul the U.K.
energy market, so that the “huge potential” for cutting power
demand by as much as 40 percent is realized, the groups said.  “Securing negawatts, rather than simply building new
generating capacity to meet growing electricity demand, is much
cheaper,” the study said. “Paying for power stations may force
consumers to overpay for decarbonization with more new renewable
developments, fossil-fuel power stations with  carbon capture  and
storage and nuclear power stations than are needed.”  U.K. Energy Minister  John Hayes  said today in an interview
that managing electricity demand “has got to be a much bigger
feature” of government policy, and that he’s working to include
measures in his department’s energy bill, planned for this fall.  Guarantee Prices  The government on May 22 published a draft of the bill,
designed to attract the 110 billion pounds of investment needed
to replace ageing power stations and upgrade the grid by 2020.
The proposed law lays out plans to guarantee prices for low-
carbon electricity and pay producers for providing back-up
supply when wind, solar and marine power fall short.  “Demand management needs to have a greater focus than it’s
had previously, including in this bill,” Hayes said. “There’s
the area around how you could financially incentivise both
consumers and producers in respect of demand management. Rather
than focusing arrangements wholly or solely around production,
you could start to tie that to consumption in a financial way.”  In a separate e-mailed statement, Hayes’s department
welcomed the Green Alliance report and said it will start a
consultation this fall on electricity demand reduction.  The main mechanism proposed by the government to spur the
development of wind and nuclear plants is the so-called feed-in
tariff with contracts for difference, which guarantee a long-
term price for generating power. If the market rate is lower,
the government ensures the generator gets the difference. If the
price exceeds the tariff, producers return money to consumers.  Efficiency Measures  Projected U.K. electricity demand of 411 terawatt-hours in
2030 could be cut by 155 terawatt-hours, or about 40 percent
using  energy efficiency  measures, according to a draft  report 
posted in July on the website of the Department of Energy and
Climate Change. Current policy captures just 54 terawatt-hours
of that potential, according to the study.  “Energy efficiency is the obvious win-win in the upcoming
reform of our electricity market; keeping a check on rising
energy bills while also reducing our dependency on fossil
fuels,” WWF-U.K. Chief Executive Officer David Nussbaum said in
an e-mailed statement. “Thus far the draft energy bill has
failed to recognize this gilt-edged opportunity, and energy
efficiency is conspicuous only by its absence.”  Most Suited  London-based Green Alliance and WWF’s U.K. branch in
Godalming, south of the capital, studied three measures to
reward energy efficiency and concluded that a feed-in tariff
that pays projects for electricity savings on a per kilowatt-
hour basis, was the tool most suited to Britain.  They recommended the level of the incentive should be lower
than those offered for renewable energy and nuclear projects to
ensure they lead to savings in the power system.  The other measures examined were a capacity market where
energy-cutting projects could bid alongside power suppliers for
hourly slots, and an obligation for electricity suppliers to
demonstrate annual savings in their customers’ energy use.  “An electricity-efficiency FiT is the best option to
ensure that  electricity market  reform delivers the significant
potential to reduce electricity demand across the economy,” the
groups wrote. “It is vital that the bill is amended to allow
for the introduction of energy efficiency support measures, so
that an electricity-efficiency FiT can be introduced.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 