-- U.K. Should Buy Homes to Stimulate Economic Growth, RBS Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-10-15T10:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/u-k-should-buy-homes-to-stimulate-economic-growth-rbs-says.html
The U.K. government should set up a
body to buy homes to help Britons reduce their debts and
increase spending, according to  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
economist Richard Barwell.  Current policies are limited in their ability to stimulate
the economy as Britain is being held back by a “balance-sheet
recession,” London-based Barwell said in an e-mailed report to
clients today. The proposal would target homeowners who are
holding back spending because their mortgages are worth more
than the value of their property or who don’t have much equity
in their homes, he said.  “If that fraction of the mortgage population is
sufficiently large, then when coupled with those households
struggling with the burden of unsecured debt, we could arrive a
material fraction of the population that may be unwilling to
increase spending in response to monetary stimulus,” he said.  The program would see authorities setting up an
institutional  buy-to-let  investor to which individuals could
sell their property, remain as rent-paying tenants and use the
proceeds to pay down their mortgage, Barwell said.  “In most cases, this process will release some equity tied
up in the property,” he said. “The hope is that those
individuals will become debt free and may then be more likely to
spend. There might be a significant impact on consumption.”  The plan could be funded by either the issuance of
government bonds, or by a state guarantee and private-sector
finance, the economist said.  The program may also provide a new macroprudential tool
for policy makers seeking to reduce imbalances in the housing
market by increasing or decreasing the rate at which properties
are put back onto the market, he said. It would also allow banks
to lower leverage and their reliance on wholesale funding as
mortgage debt is paid off, Barwell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  