-- U.S. October Empire State Manufacturing Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-10-15T12:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/u-s-october-empire-state-manufacturing-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Empire
State Manufacturing Index.  The October Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates that
conditions for  New York  manufacturers continued to decline for a
third consecutive month. The general business conditions index
increased four points but remained negative at -6.2. The new
orders index rose five points to -9.0, while the shipments index
fell nine points to -6.4, its first negative reading in more
than a year. The prices paid index was little changed at 17.2,
and the prices received index held steady at 4.3. Employment
conditions weakened, with the index for number of employees
declining five points to -1.1 and the average workweek index
falling three points to -4.3. Indexes for the six-month outlook
suggested that conditions were expected to improve, although the
level of optimism among manufacturers remained low relative to
earlier this year.  In a series of supplementary questions, more respondents
reported rising than declining borrowing needs over the past
year, by a margin of 26 percent to 17 percent. Looking ahead to
the next twelve months, 24 percent of manufacturers indicated
that they expected borrowing needs to be higher a year from now,
whereas just 10 percent anticipated lower borrowing needs. While
the vast majority of respondents reported no change in credit
availability--over either the past three months or the past
twelve months--almost twice as many manufacturers reported
tightening as easing in credit.  Business Conditions Continue to Worsen  The general business conditions index was negative for a third
consecutive month in October, pointing to a continued
deterioration in business conditions for New York manufacturers.
The index rose four points to -6.2, with 25 percent of
respondents reporting that conditions had improved over the
month and 31 percent reporting that conditions had worsened. The
new orders index climbed five points but, at -9.0, remained
negative, indicating that orders were continuing to decline. The
shipments index fell below zero for the first time in more than
a year, dropping nine points to -6.4--a sign that shipments were
lower. The unfilled orders index was slightly lower at -18.3.
The delivery time index fell six points to -4.3, and the
inventories index edged down to -2.2.  Employment Indexes Weaken  The indexes for both prices paid and prices received were little
changed. At 17.2, the prices paid index remained near its level
of the past few months, suggesting that moderate input prices
increases were continuing. The prices received index held at
4.3, indicating a small increase in selling prices. The index
for number of employees fell for a second consecutive month and,
at -1.1, suggested that employment levels were essentially flat.
Prior to September, this index had shown modest increases in
employment throughout much of the year. The average workweek
index fell three points to -4.3, signaling a shorter workweek.  Modest Improvement Expected in Months Ahead  Indexes for the six-month outlook generally suggested that firms
expected conditions to improve, although the level of optimism
remained significantly lower than the levels seen earlier this
year. After rising last month, the future general business
conditions index fell eight points to 19.4. The future new
orders index inched down two points to 15.1, and the future
shipments index was little changed at 11.8. The future prices
paid index climbed for a second consecutive month, rising four
points to 44.1. The future prices received index, at 24.7, held
steady. The index for expected number of employees fell nine
points to zero--a sign that employment was expected to be
unchanged over the next six months. The future average workweek
index fell fourteen points to -11.8, indicating that the average
workweek was expected to be shorter. These two employment
indexes were at their lowest levels in more than a year. The
capital expenditures index fell six points to 6.5, its lowest
level since mid-2009, and the technology spending index held
steady at 7.5  Supplemental Report: Manufacturers Anticipate Increased
Borrowing Needs, See Slight Decline in Credit Availability
Supplementary questions in the October 2012 Empire State
Manufacturing Survey focused on recent and expected changes in
firms’ borrowing needs and credit availability. Parallel
questions had been asked in previous surveys-- most recently, in
the March 2012 and October 2011 surveys.  As in these earlier surveys, a majority of respondents in the
latest survey reported no change in borrowing needs. Still, the
share of respondents reported rising borrowing needs over the
past year exceeded the share reporting declining needs: 26
percent said that their borrowing needs had increased in the
past year, while just 16 percent said they had decreased. This
breakdown is almost identical to that in March’s survey. When
asked about changes over the past three months, however, just 17
percent of respondents reported that borrowing needs had
increased, while 12 percent said that they had declined. Looking
ahead, 24 percent of manufacturers indicated that they expected
borrowing needs to be higher a year from now, whereas just 10
percent anticipated lower borrowing needs.  Queried about changes in credit availability, the vast majority
of respondents reported no change--both over the past three
months and over the past twelve months. However, the share of
manufacturers reporting a tightening in credit was almost twice
that reporting an easing in credit. This finding contrasts
somewhat with survey results from March, when the percentage of
respondents reporting easier credit matched the percentage
reporting tighter credit. In last October’s survey, however,
substantially more manufacturers noted a tightening than an
easing of credit. Looking ahead to expected credit availability
over the next year, three in four manufacturers anticipated no
change. As in March’s survey, those expecting some change were
fairly evenly split: 13 percent predicted some tightening in
credit, while 12 percent anticipated some easing.  Firms reported some decline in borrowing costs, on net, over the
past three months: 17 percent indicated declining costs, while
just 7 percent noted increasing costs; the large majority (77
percent) reported no change. Net declines in borrowing costs
were also seen in the March 2012 and October 2011 surveys.
Nearly 90 percent of respondents reported no change in limits
(ceilings) on existing lines of credit over the past three
months  SOURCE: Federal  Reserve Bank  of New York 