-- UBS CFO Says 550 Fired After $2.3 Billion Trading Loss
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-10-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/ubs-cfo-says-550-fired-after-2-3-billion-trading-loss.html
Tom Naratil, chief financial officer
of  UBS AG (UBSN) , said the Swiss bank fired as many as 550 employees
after it suffered a $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized trading
last year.  The bank’s share price fell more than 10 percent on Sept.
15, 2011, the day the loss was announced, and employee morale
suffered, Naratil testified yesterday at the London trial of
Kweku Adoboli, the trader accused of causing the loss.  “We did have layoffs that continued in the period
following the unauthorized trading incident,” Naratil said via
video link from  New York , with most of the cuts coming in
November and December. Naratil is the most-senior UBS official
to give evidence in the case so far.  Prosecutors have said Adoboli, who is on trial for fraud
and false accounting, hid the risk of his futures and ETF trades
by booking fictitious hedges. He is also accused of creating a
secret internal account known as the umbrella while working on
the bank’s ETF desk in  London  where he parked trading profits to
cover future losses. Adoboli, 32, has pleaded not guilty.  Charles Sherrard, a lawyer for Adoboli, said the bank’s
share price rallied after the loss and UBS had already announced
a month before the loss that it would cut staff by 3,500.  “To interpret any staff reductions to be caused by Mr.
Adoboli would be unfair,” Sherrard said.  Staffing Levels  While Naratil said he hadn’t stated the cuts were a direct
result of Adoboli, he added that “certainly a loss of $2.3
billion would affect staffing levels.”  Bonuses at the investment bank were also reduced by about
60 percent after the loss. The unauthorized trading “was one of
the factors, but it wouldn’t be the sole factor” that resulted
in that reduction, Naratil said.  Sherrard said that UBS’s share price had already fallen
significantly prior to Adoboli’s arrest, from just under 50
Swiss francs at the beginning of 2008 to 10.9 Swiss francs on
the day before the loss was announced. It fell again the
following day, he said.  Naratil said the bank’s losses resulting from subprime
mortgages were around $50 billion.  Ruwan Weerasekera, chief operating officer of securities at
UBS’s investment bank, testified last week that Adoboli booked
tens of thousands of real and fake trades during the summer of
2011 that exposed UBS to losses that could have reached $12
billion within weeks.  Similar Tactics  Three other UBS traders -- Bhavya Babel, Neesha Patel and
Tom White -- testified yesterday they didn’t know about
Adoboli’s umbrella and didn’t keep similar accounts for
themselves. Another lawyer for Adoboli, Paul Garlick, said that
Adoboli told each of them about it in the spring of last year
and that they had similar tactics.  White, an  executive director  in the global synthetic
equities division, testified that he had a method of reducing
the amount of profit immediately reported on his trading book in
order to set aside money for costs to pay the bank’s treasury
department.  Garlick asked Patel, the head of European retail
certificates business at UBS, whether she told Adoboli she was
impressed by the surplus profit he’d amassed in his umbrella
when he told her about it last year.  “I can’t comment on that,” she said. “I can’t recall the
conversation.”  The accounting firm KPMG LLP has conducted its own
investigation at the request of the U.K. Financial Services
Authority into the controls failures at UBS that allowed the
trades to happen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  