-- Ukraine Pledges Bank Stimulus Amid IMF Loan Extension Talks
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-10-15T10:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/ukraine-pledges-bank-stimulus-amid-imf-loan-extension-talks.html
Ukraine is readying a monetary and
fiscal push to spur lending as the country seeks to extend a
frozen International Monetary Fund loan before it ends this
year, central bank Governor Serhiy Arbuzov said.  The Natsionalnyi Bank Ukrainy and the Finance Ministry are
considering measures including inexpensive refinancing for
lenders to stimulate the economy, Arbuzov said in an interview
in  Tokyo , where he was attending the IMF’s annual meetings.  The economy grew 5.2 percent last year, is losing steam as
Europe’s debt crisis curbs demand for its exports such as steel.
Arbuzov said he met Ukraine’s 20 biggest banks on Oct. 9 and
urged them to boost lending to industries including agriculture,
infrastructure and mining. Ukrainians go to the polls in
parliamentary elections this month.  “The banks that agree to cheap lending and that are
participating in the national economy will receive
refinancing,” he said Oct. 12. “We’re going to try to do that
on an almost automatic basis. The banks that listened to me
carefully will be able to profit from this, and very
significantly.”  The hryvnia has has weakened 1.3 percent against the dollar
this year and traded at 8.1430 per dollar at 12:58 p.m. in Kiev,
compared with 8.1373 on Oct. 12.  Banks will be able to receive cheap refinancing from the
central bank, even as interbank rates are climbing, while as
much as 100 percent of companies’ loan interest payments may be
subsidized by the Finance Ministry, Arbuzov said.  Frozen Loan  Ukraine is trying to restart a frozen $15.4 billion IMF
loan. After talks with Ukrainian officials in the U.S., the
Washington-based lender is sending technical missions to the
former Soviet republic to discuss prolonging the credit, Arbuzov
said.  “It’s possible we may reach some positive changes before
the very end of the program,” he said. “Should we reach an
agreement, the current program may be prolonged just after the
elections.”  Ukraine turned to the IMF after its  economy  contracted
almost 15 percent in 2009 following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. Its bailout loan, the second in two
years, has been on hold since March 2011 because the government
refuses to raise household energy costs to trim the budget
deficit.  ‘Definitely Prefer’  The country would “definitely” prefer to extend the
current program than begin talks on a new one, Arbuzov said.
“We’ve fulfilled too many of the conditions of the current
program to start talks over again from the beginning.”  Gross domestic product advanced 1.5 percent from a year
earlier in the first eight months, Prime Minister Mykola Azarov
said Sept. 19. Policy makers still have time to boost growth to
2 percent by the end of the year, Arbuzov said.  The current-account may end the year with a $7 billion
deficit, though capital and financial inflows would be big
enough to offset it, he said.  The IMF has urged Ukraine to allow a more flexible exchange
rate for the hryvnia, which is pegged to the dollar. The central
bank plans to implement a more liberal currency regime, Arbuzov
said.  “We’re constantly moving toward that target,” he said.
“I absolutely don’t think that the rate is fixed. It moves.”  Ukraine isn’t any closer to adding the ruble to its
reserves, though the possibility still remains because of the
country’s deep trade ties with  Russia , Arbuzov said.  Ruble Volatility  “We can’t add this currency to the  reserves  ourselves
without reaching an understanding with the IMF,” he said.
“They’re not against it, we just haven’t gotten that far in our
talks and we haven’t received any recommendations from them. We
still don’t entirely know to what extent the ruble’s volatility
will benefit the Ukrainian economy.”  Policy makers are also hoping to convince the public to
stop buying foreign currency to hedge against risks of a
devaluation of the hryvnia, Arbuzov said. The Finance Ministry
is offering dollar-denominated bonds to the public as an
alternative to bank deposits, he said.  “Our main task, alongside the Finance Ministry, is to get
the public to stop following exchange-rate policy and leave that
to exporters and importers, the professionals,” he said. “The
people of Ukraine, like the people of  Europe , should be more
worried about inflation, the cost of money, than on how the
exchange rate is formed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Tokyo at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  