-- University of Texas Joins Harvard-MIT EdX Online Venture
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-15T19:15:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/university-of-texas-joining-harvard-mit-online-venture.html
The University of Texas System plans
to put up $5 million to join the EdX online venture, started by
 Harvard University  and the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology , to help meet demand for low-cost college courses.  The Texas system, based in Austin and overseeing nine
universities, will quadruple the number of schools involved in
EdX, which offers free online courses to anyone over the
Internet. The state-supported Texas schools have been encouraged
by Governor  Rick Perry  to cut the cost of college education.  “The UT System’s partnership with EdX is great news for
Texas and exactly the type of effort I hope more schools will
consider as we aggressively pursue the goals of improving
graduation rates and making a college education more accessible
and affordable,” Perry, 62, said today in a statement.  Texas follows the  University of California , Berkeley, in
joining EdX. Harvard and MIT, both based in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , announced the venture May 2. The two founding
schools each chipped in $30 million to finance the not-for-
profit organization. A “modest fee” will be charged for those
who want certificates for completing a course in the future,
according to a statement on the EdX website.  Currently, students pay nothing to enroll and take classes
online, while those who pay tuition to attend the participating
schools can earn credit by completing EdX courses.  Cutting Cost  Perry, a Republican, has pressed public colleges and
universities in  Texas  to offer $10,000 bachelor’s degree
programs and to freeze tuition levels for four years for each
incoming class, to provide cost certainty and an incentive to
graduate on time.  After raising tuition by an average 7 percent annually over
the past 30 years and seeing student debt soar, U.S.
universities face a fiscal cliff with state and federal aid
declining, said Steven Mintz, executive director of the Texas
system’s Institute for Transformational Learning. In addition to
its stake in EdX, the system plans to set aside another $5
million to design online courses, he said.  “Students already are taking many online classes, but many
are of poor quality,” Mintz said. “This is an effort in part
to ensure students take courses we consider to be rigorous and
effective.”  The shift to online college-credit courses is occurring
three to five years faster than expected because of demand from
students and universities, said Anant Agarwal, president of
Cambridge-based EdX and an MIT professor.  Not Enough  Most universities realize major structural changes are
needed, though moving lectures online doesn’t go far enough,
said Jeff Sandefer, a Perry adviser who taught entrepreneurship
courses at the  University of Texas  and started the Austin-based
Acton School of Business, which offers graduate management
degrees. EdX and Coursera, another university group offering
free online studies, “will hasten the flight of full-price
customers to less-expensive alternatives, accelerating the
demise of traditional academia,” Sandefer said by e-mail.  The University of Texas System plans to offer introductory
courses at first, such as those typically taken by 100 or more
students in lecture halls at its flagship Austin campus, Mintz
said. Programs will be added from other campuses including the
medical school in Houston. The classes will start next year.  Coursera, started by two Stanford University computer
scientists last year, has  signed contracts  with 33 schools
including Stanford and  Princeton University , spokeswoman Iz
Conroy said. Coursera received a combined $18 million in initial
funding from venture capital firms Kleiner Perkins Caufield &
Byers and  New Enterprise Associates , plus a combined $3.7
million from the  University of Pennsylvania  and the  California
Institute of Technology , Conroy said.  “EdX is as well-funded as any startup and better funded
than almost anyone else,” Mintz said. “We aren’t without arms
in this arms race.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  