-- Turkey Clears Syria-Bound Armenian Plane After Cargo Search
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-10-15T11:56:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/turkey-searches-syria-bound-plane-that-took-off-from-armenia-1-.html
Turkey  allowed a Syria bound cargo
plane from  Armenia  to resume its journey after it landed in
eastern Turkey for a search today to make sure it only carried
humanitarian aid and not weapons.  Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc said authorities had
verified Armenia’s statement that the plane carried relief
supplies to Aleppo, Syria, the state-run Anatolia agency said.  The landing of the plane in the eastern city of Erzurum
came a week after Turkey grounded and searched a Syrian plane
that took off from  Russia , and confiscated some of its cargo
saying it contained military supplies destined for President
Bashar al-Assad’s government. Turkey has backed the rebels who
have been fighting to end Assad’s rule since March last year,
and says it won’t turn a blind eye to arms shipments to  Syria .  Arinc said the search of the Armenian plane shows that
Turkey is “serious” in monitoring shipments to Syria.  The plane was carrying aid and the stop in Turkey was
planned, Tigran Balayan, a spokesman for Armenia’s Foreign
Ministry, said in an e-mailed response to questions. Turkey
permitted the flight on condition it would carry out the search.  Armenia requested flight permission for the Air Armenia
plane from Turkey on Oct. 10, when Turkey grounded the Syrian
plane, Anatolia said. The Antonov-12 was carrying 14 tons of
food supplies including sunflower oil, rice and sugar from
Yerevan to Aleppo, Anatolia said.  Aiding Rebels  Tensions between Turkey and Syria, once allies, have
escalated since a shell fired from Syria landed in a Turkish
border town earlier this month, killing five people. In June, a
Turkish plane was shot down by Syrian forces in the east
Mediterranean. Turkey has deployed additional troops and weapons
to the border with Syria.  More than 30,000 people have been killed as Assad’s
government fights the uprising in Syria, according to pro-
opposition rights groups. Syria has accused Turkey, along with
 Saudi Arabia  and Qatar, of helping the rebels obtain arms and
money.  Turkey is hosting more than 100,000 Syrian refugees,
including defected soldiers, and has allowed rebel military
forces to operate from Turkish bases.  Turkey allows humanitarian and commercial flights to and
from Armenia even though the countries do not have diplomatic
ties. Turkey closed its border with Armenia in 1993 to protest
Armenia’s war with  Azerbaijan , and insists on withdrawal of
Armenian troops from the Armenian-occupied enclave Nagorno-
Karabakh in Azerbaijan before it will reopen the border.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  