-- Verizon Begins Defense of $9.5 Billion Idearc Lawsuit
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n ,   T o m   K o r o s e c   a n d   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-10-15T17:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/verizon-begins-defense-of-9-5-billion-idearc-lawsuit.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  began
defending a $9.5 billion lawsuit brought by creditors of its
former subsidiary Idearc Inc., the directory business that filed
for bankruptcy after it was spun off by Verizon.  Creditors contend Verizon, knowing the directory business
was in decline, engineered a deal that transferred
$2.4 billion in cash out of the subsidiary and saddled it with
$9 billion in debt.  Verizon loaded Idearc with debt and “sent it into the
market to die,” Werner Powers, an attorney for Idearc
creditors, said in his opening statement at a trial that began
today in federal court in Dallas. “They knew in major markets
they had been suffering a double-digit decline. They knew that
was the canary in the mine shaft.”  Now named  SuperMedia Inc. (SPMD) , Idearc completed a bankruptcy
reorganization that created a trust to bring lawsuits on behalf
of creditors with claims of about $6 billion, according to court
papers. Creditors contend the spinoff, designed to generate
$9.5 billion for Verizon, left Idearc with so much debt it was
insolvent and destined to collapse. It filed for bankruptcy
28 months after the spinoff.  An attorney for Verizon, Reid Figel, said Idearc wasn’t
insolvent at the time of the spinoff and that Wall Street
analysts valued the company from $12.5 billion to $14.5 billion.  ‘Extremely Low’  “The value of Idearc on the day of the sale was
$12.9 billion, and the plaintiff has failed to carry its burden
of proof,” he said. Creditors are relying on “an extremely low
outlier valuation,” he said.  Bill Kula, a spokesman for New York-based Verizon, called
the lawsuit “baseless and without merit” in an e-mailed
statement.  U.S. District Judge A. Joe Fish has turned back several
efforts by Verizon, the second-largest U.S. phone company, to
knock the suit out completely. He did rule against creditors by
dismissing some of their claims.  Details of the spinoff aren’t publicly known because
Verizon succeeded in having most of the court filings and many
of Fish’s rulings sealed.  Bloomberg News  has filed papers asking
Fish to unseal court papers and ensure the trial is open to the
public.  Fish will rule on the case without a jury. He previously
turned down the creditors’ request for a  jury trial .  The creditors’ lawsuit is U.S. Bank National Association v.
Verizon Communications Inc., 10-01842, U.S. District Court,
Northern District  Texas  (Dallas). The bankruptcy case was In re
Idearc Inc., 09-31828, U.S.  Bankruptcy Court , Northern District
of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ; Tom Korosec in federal court in
Dallas at  tkorosec@sbcglobal.net ; Bill Rochelle in New York at
   wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 