-- Virgin Money, JC Flowers Said to Mull Bids for RBS Branches
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-10-15T15:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/virgin-money-jc-flowers-said-to-mull-bids-for-rbs-branches-1-.html
Richard Branson ’s  Virgin Money 
Holdings (U.K.) Ltd. approached  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
to buy 316 branches and U.S. investor JC Flowers & Co. is
considering a bid, according to three people with knowledge of
the matter.  The discussions come after  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Spain ’s
biggest bank, abandoned its 1.7 billion-pound ($2.7 billion)
purchase of the branches last week, citing completion delays.
The new plans are at a very early stage and no decision on
whether to table a formal offer has been made, said the people
who asked not to be identified because the talks are private.  RBS has to sell the outlets by 2014 to comply with a
 European Union  state-aid ruling after receiving 45.5 billion
pounds in the biggest banking bailout in the world in 2008 and
2009.  RBS (RBS) , Britain’s biggest government-owned bank, may approach
the European Commission and seek an extension to the deadline,
one of the people said.  “We would expect any offers received to come in well below
the book value of 1 billion pounds, reflecting prices achieved
by similar transactions elsewhere,” Gary Greenwood, a banking
analyst at Shore Capital in Liverpool, said in a note to clients
today.  Bid Unlikely  NBNK Investments Plc (NBNK) , a company created to acquire
financial assets, is unlikely to bid for the outlets as the firm
is being wound down and reversing that process would be
difficult, said a separate person with knowledge of the
company’s plans.  Officials at Virgin Money, NBNK, JC Flowers and RBS
declined to comment.  Regulators may now be “a lot more flexible” with the
branch sale deadline because Britain’s consumer-banking market
has become more competitive, RBS Chairman  Philip Hampton  said on
Oct. 13.  “RBS will commence a new process of disposal following
discussion with the EC and will provide a further update on this
in due course,” Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hester said in
a statement today.  RBS fell 1 percent to 268.1 pence in London trading, the
only bank among Britain’s five largest to fall today. The stock
has climbed 33 percent this year. Santander gained 1.2 percent
to 5.81 euros.  ‘Severe Regime’  Virgin Money agreed to buy part of Northern Rock Plc in
November for 747 million pounds and moved its headquarters to
Newcastle,  England , the mortgage lender’s base. JC Flowers and
NBNK also submitted bids for the bank, which the U.K. government
took over in February 2008.  RBS’s Hampton said the bank might try to see if the
European Commission will let it keep the branches.  “It used to be a pretty severe regime but they are making
different judgments,” Hampton told reporters in  Tokyo , where he
held meetings on the sidelines of the International Monetary
Fund’s annual gathering. “The U.K. retail banking market is
more competitive now than it has been for decades.”  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the EC, said the
regulator’s rationale for the sale of RBS’ branches “remains
valid.” The EU has previously required banks to suggest
alternative measures if they seek to change the original terms
of approval for state aid, he said. The U.K. government hasn’t
yet made a formal request to change the terms of the EU’s
approval for RBS, Colombani said.  Commerzbank AG, a German lender rescued by taxpayers, this
year won approval to alter the terms of its 2009 bailout to wind
down most of a real estate unit instead of selling it.  KBC Groep
NV (KBC)  last year got EU permission to replace a planned sale of
Czech and Hungarian assets with the sale of Polish units.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  