-- Vivendi, STMicro Revamp Face Hollande’s Scrutiny Over Jobs
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-10-16T15:45:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/vivendi-stmicro-revamp-poised-to-face-french-scrutiny-over-jobs.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  and  STMicroelectronics
SA (STM) , each considering a reorganization to boost their
competitiveness, face a hurdle as French President  Francois Hollande  struggles to keep an election pledge on job creation.  Industry Minister Arnaud Montebourg today hosted
STMicroelectronics Chairman Didier Lombard at Bercy to discuss
stragtegy as Europe’s biggest chipmaker evaluates options
ranging from asset sales to a break-up, people with knowledge of
the matter said, asking not to be named because the gathering is
private. A separate session with Vivendi’s Jean-Rene Fourtou was
postponed due to scheduling issues, said a ministry official.  With Vivendi and STMicroelectronics employing about 26,000
workers in France in total, the government would be interested
in any potential job eliminations from a reorganization, said
the people. Even as Hollande had campaigned on the promise of
“social justice,” his government last month had to backtrack
on its objection to the closure of a  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  factory
in France as auto demand slumped.  “The perception is that the first priority of the French
government is to protect jobs,” said  Claudio Aspesi , an analyst
at Sanford Bernstein in London. In the case of Vivendi,
“there’s a question of what the government can live with, and
that could be a tough conversation.”  Bollore’s Stake  Both companies face pressure from investors to boost
returns. Vivendi shares had dropped 21 percent and
STMicroelectronics’s stock had declined 18 percent in the two
years through yesterday on the Paris exchange, both exceeding a
11 percent loss for the benchmark  CAC 40 Index. (CAC)   Vivendi added 1.8 percent to close at 16 euros in the
French capital. The company said today billionaire  Vincent Bollore , who owns advertising agency  Havas SA (HAV) , became its
biggest shareholder after taking a 5 percent holding.  STMicroelectronics gained 2 percent to 4.70 euros.  France’s economy hasn’t grown for the three quarters
through June, a streak that national statistics office Insee
predicts will continue into the third and fourth quarters.
Unemployment in Europe’s second-largest economy, behind Germany,
is at a 13-year high.  Tax Pledges  Representatives at Paris-based Vivendi and Geneva-based
STMicroelectronics declined to comment.  Montebourg and Hollande haven’t hesitated to push back
against French companies’ plans before. The minister last month
said he and other officials persuaded  Sanofi (SAN)  to reduce the scope
of job cuts to about 900 from 2,500 as France’s largest
drugmaker seeks to scale down its local operations.  Hollande, who has pledged to raise taxes and step up
government hiring, initially said the planned closure of a
Peugeot assembly line outside Paris and layoffs were
“unacceptable,” before his government reversed its position,
citing worsening conditions in Europe’s car market.  Montebourg last week announced measures intended to spur
employment in the French telecommunications industry. Vivendi’s
SFR mobile-phone unit is preparing to negotiate layoff plans
with unions in November.  With Fourtou pledging to overhaul Vivendi’s unique
telecommunications-to-media  structure , the company is exploring
options for the future of SFR, the second-largest mobile
operator in France’s increasingly competitive phone market,
according to people with knowledge of its plans.  Numericable Tie-Up?  Vivendi has informally discussed a sale to former co-owner
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , though the two companies remain widely
divided on a valuation, according to the people. Vivendi last
year paid almost 8 billion euros ($10.4 billion) for Vodafone’s
44 percent stake in the operator.  Concerns over valuation and deal structure also stand in
the way of a potential tie-up with Numericable, the French cable
operator owned by private-equity firms including  Carlyle Group
LP (CG)  that has approached Vivendi about a potential merger with
SFR, the people said.  Fourtou’s sale efforts are also proceeding slowly outside
France. His attempt to find a buyer for  Activision Blizzard
Inc. (ATVI) , the Santa Monica, California-based video-game publishing
unit behind hit titles like “Call of Duty,” has largely failed
after potential buyers balked at the $12.6 billion market value,
according to people familiar with the situation.  Activision, GVT  Vivendi is also considering options for its phone assets in
Morocco and Brazil. The company has hired  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA)  to explore a sale of  Maroc Telecom SA (IAM) , according to
people familiar with the matter. It mandated Deutsche Bank AG
and Rothschild to work on GVT, the Brazilian broadband provider
it purchased in 2009.  Vivendi will first have to agree with the government of
Morocco, which owns 30 percent of Maroc Telecom. A sale of GVT
will also be difficult as two of the most logical buyers,
 Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  and  Telefonica SA (TEF) , face financing challenges
as they seek to reduce debt, the people said.  The French government may also weigh in on potential sales
of assets like GVT and Maroc Telecom that strengthened the
country’s links to fast-growing emerging markets like Brazil and
North Africa,  Sanford Bernstein ’s Aspesi said.  STMicroelectronics is evaluating a reorganization as rapid
swings in demand and stiff competition from Asia roil the
semiconductor industry. The chip manufacturer may split its
analog business, which makes chips for cars and video-game
consoles, from slower-growing digital assets, people familiar
with its deliberations said last week.  Chip Demand  Any such deal would have to be structured carefully to
blunt the impact of job losses in France and Italy, whose
governments together own 27.5 percent of the company, the people
said.  STMicroelectronics has said it is working with an adviser
to define a strategy for ST-Ericsson, its wireless venture with
Sweden’s Ericsson AB, about five months after it announced plans
to eliminate 1,700 jobs at the unit and transfer some product
development to trim costs.  ST-Ericsson, which competes with San Diego-based market
leader  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , hasn’t been profitable since it was formed
in 2009 as its newer smartphone and tablet chips haven’t offset
a fall in sales of older products. The company has struggled to
bring out higher-powered chipsets and platforms as the low-end
phone business at major client  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  have declined.  A visit to Bercy before major restructuring is becoming a
tradition in Hollande’s France. Alcatel-Lucent SA came under
scrutiny from Montebourg’s team in July and Chairman Philippe Camus was called in for a meeting. Alcatel said on July 26 it
would eliminate 5,000 jobs to cut costs after slumping to a
loss, sending the stock to its lowest level since at least 1989.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  