-- LVMH Rises After Easing Concern About Weakening Vuitton Demand
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-10-16T14:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/lvmh-reports-slowest-sales-growth-since-2009-as-demand-weakens.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) 
shares rose after the company said it raised prices at its
flagship fashion and leather-goods brand in  Europe , helping to
dispel concern about growth at the business.  Vuitton’s organic third-quarter sales growth “doesn’t
differ materially from the previous” three months, LVMH Finance
Director Jean-Jacques Guiony said on a conference call today.
The Paris-based company raised prices at the fashion brand by 8
percent in Europe in October, he said, adding that “the
appetite for luxury goods is there.”  LVMH climbed as much as 3.2 percent as of 4:31 p.m. in
Paris, reversing an earlier decline of as much as 1.6 percent
after reporting the slowest sales growth since 2009. Organic
revenue, which excludes currency swings and acquisitions,
climbed 6 percent in the third quarter, LVMH said yesterday
after markets closed, missing the 7 percent average estimate of
10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Luxury-goods  makers have reported divergent sales patterns
since the end of August.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  said demand is
slowing, particularly at lower price points, while Prada SpA and
 Hermes International SCA (RMS)  said they’ve yet to be affected by the
weakening world economy. Sales of expensive handbags and other
items may advance 5 percent in 2012, excluding currency swings,
less than half last year’s pace, Bain & Co. estimated.  Total revenue at LVMH in the quarter rose 15 percent to 6.9
billion euros ($8.9 billion), the company said yesterday, adding
it remains confident in its outlook for 2012. The median of six
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was 6.88 billion
euros.  “The third-quarter figures reflect a tougher
environment,” Guiony said. “One shouldn’t see the bottle half
empty in my view.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  