-- LVMH Reports Slowest Sales Growth Since 2009 as Demand Wanes
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-10-15T17:19:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/lvmh-confident-of-2012-outlook-as-third-quarter-sales-gain-15-.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA, (MC) 
the world’s largest maker of  luxury goods , reported the slowest
quarterly sales growth since the last three months of 2009 as
demand for  leather goods  and watches slowed.  Organic revenue, which excludes currency swings and
acquisitions, climbed 6 percent in the third quarter, the Paris-
based company said today after the market close. That missed the
7 percent average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “This set of results is not the greatest we have seen at
LVMH,” Leopold Authie, a Paris-based analyst at Oddo & Cie.,
said by e-mail. “Many investors were very worried about a
potential faster deceleration given the current context, notably
in Asia-Pacific.”  Luxury-goods makers have reported divergent sales patterns
since the end of August.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  said demand is
slowing, particularly at lower price points, while Prada SpA and
 Hermes International SCA (RMS)  said they’ve yet to be affected by the
weakening world economy. Sales of expensive handbags and other
items may advance 5 percent in 2012, excluding currency swings,
less than half last year’s pace, Bain & Co. estimated today.  A deceleration in revenue growth at LVMH’s fashion and
leather goods and watches and jewelry units is “worrying,”
said Thomas Mesmin, an analyst at CA Cheuvreux in Paris. Fashion
and leather goods sales growth slowed to 4 percent in the
quarter, while watches and jewelry gained 2 percent, excluding
currency swings and acquisitions, Mesmin estimates.  Confident Outlook  Total revenue in the quarter rose 15 percent to 6.9 billion
euros ($8.9 billion), LVMH said. The median of six analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was 6.88 billion euros.  “The U.S. market continued to demonstrate solid
momentum,” the company said in the statement. “In spite of a
mixed business environment, Europe and  Asia  also contributed to
the third quarter performance.”  LVMH said it “remains confident in its outlook for 2012.”  Nine-month sales rose 22 percent on a reported basis and 10
percent excluding currency swings and acquisitions, LVMH said.  The shares advanced 0.8 percent to 123.8 euros in Paris
trading today, extending this year’s gain to 13 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  