-- Voter Proof-of-Citizenship Law Gets Supreme Court Review
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-10-15T20:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/voter-proof-of-citizenship-law-gets-supreme-court-review.html
The U.S. Supreme Court will decide
whether states can demand proof of citizenship from people
registering to vote, agreeing to hear an  Arizona  clash with
nationwide implications.  The case, which the court won’t consider until after the
Nov. 6 election, tests states’ power to impose requirements that
go beyond the registration procedures set out by federal law. A
U.S. appeals court invalidated Arizona’s proof-of-citizenship
law, being challenged by minority-rights and voter-advocacy
groups.  That ruling would “interfere with the states’ ability to
protect the integrity of their elections,” Arizona argued in
court papers. It is one of at least four states -- along with
Alabama,  Kansas  and  Georgia  -- that require would-be voters to
show evidence of citizenship.  The case presents legal issues different from those in the
voter-identification battles that have garnered headlines
leading up to the election. The new high court case doesn’t
directly involve allegations of racial or ethnic discrimination.
Instead, it centers on the constitutional roles of the state and
national governments in overseeing elections and on a 1993
federal law designed to increase voter registration.  The court will hear arguments early next year and rule by
June.  Driver’s License  Arizona’s law, approved by the state’s voters in 2004,
provides options for meeting the proof-of-citizenship
requirement. Acceptable documents include a driver’s license or
other state-issued ID, a birth certificate, a passport and
naturalization papers.  The San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
voted 9-2 to strike down the Arizona law, saying the
Constitution’s elections clause gives Congress the leading role
to set the rules for federal voting.  “The states are obligated to conform to and carry out
whatever procedures Congress requires,” Judge Sandra Segal Ikuta wrote.  The 9th Circuit said the 1993 law bars the Arizona
registration requirements. The federal measure establishes a
national voter application and requires every state to “accept
and use” it.  The law “does not give states room to add their own
requirements” to the federal application, Ikuta wrote.  Motor Voter  The 1993 law was informally known as the Motor Voter Law
because of a separate provision that requires states to let
residents register to vote when applying for a driver’s license.  The Arizona law was challenged by groups including the
Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, the League
of Women Voters of Arizona and the Inter Tribal Council of
Arizona. The Obama administration backed the lawsuits at the
lower court level.  The 9th Circuit upheld other parts of the Arizona law,
including its requirement that voters show identification at the
polls.  Four states --  Alabama , Georgia, Kansas and  Texas  -- filed
court papers urging the justices to take up the Arizona appeal.  The Supreme Court hasn’t considered an elections clause
case since 1997, when it struck down  Louisiana ’s system of
holding a nonpartisan congressional primary in October, followed
by a runoff in November if no candidate received a majority.  The Supreme Court said that system violated the federal law
that requires all congressional and presidential elections to be
held on a single November day.  The new case is Arizona v. Inter Tribal Council of Arizona,
12-71.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  