-- Wal-Mart Wins Dismissal of Texas Women’s Class Action
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-10-16T04:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/wal-mart-wins-dismissal-of-texas-women-s-class-action.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, doesn’t have to face class-action gender-
discrimination claims in a federal court lawsuit in Texas, a
judge ruled.  Wal-Mart was accused in the lawsuit of discriminating
against women in pay and promotions in the company’s Texas
region, which included some stores in neighboring states. The
suit sought to represent all women hourly and salaried workers,
below store managers, employed by Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club in the
region.  The lawsuit was filed last year after the U.S. Supreme
Court rejected a nationwide class action claiming gender
discrimination. U.S District Judge Reed O’Connor dismissed the
Texas class complaint yesterday, finding that the lawsuit was
filed too late.  The plaintiffs’ class claims “are barred by the statute of
limitations, and should be dismissed,” O’Connor said in a 19-
page decision. He also dismissed the suit by lead plaintiff,
Stephanie Odle. O’Connor allowed other individual claims to go
forward.  The case is one of four regional lawsuits filed against
Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, since the U.S. Supreme
Court decision in June 2011. A similar suit is pending in
California, and complaints were filed this month in Florida and
 Tennessee .  ‘Can’t Piggyback’  “We are pleased that the district court has dismissed the
class action claims, recognizing the individuals must pursue
their own claims,” Theodore Boutrous Jr., a lawyer for Wal-
Mart, said yesterday in an interview.  “You can’t piggyback one class action on top of another,”
Boutrous said. “This class action was based on the same
theories that were rejected by the Supreme Court.”  The plaintiffs will be appealing, Joseph Sellers, their
attorney, said yesterday in a phone interview.  “We’re going to continue with the other cases and hope we
can get this one overturned,” he said.  The plaintiffs said in court papers opposing dismissal that
the nationwide class action covered 41 company regions. They
said the  Texas  lawsuit limited itself to three Wal-Mart regions
and two Sam’s Club regions.  “Within this area plaintiffs challenge the decisions of a
discrete group of managers who made the pay and promotion
decisions,” lawyers for the women wrote. Those managers “have
long known about gender disparities” yet “have failed to take
remedial action.”  Final Ruling  While the nationwide class action was pending, the statute
of limitations on claims was set aside, or tolled, until a final
court decision. Rules in the U.S. Court of Appeals in New
Orleans restrict “the tolling to subsequent individual lawsuits
and not further class actions,” O’Connor said. This allows the
individuals to pursue claims, while barring a class action, he
said.  The court based its decision on an outdated ruling from the
federal appeals court in New Orleans, Sellers said.  “The court felt bound by a decision by the Fifth Circuit
that’s 25-years old,” he said. “It’s no longer valid.”
Subsequent decisions have supplanted that ruling, he said. The
plaintiffs will be appealing O’Connor’s decision to the 5th
Circuit.  Odle, who was one of the original plaintiffs in the
national class action, was blocked by yesterday’s ruling from
pursuing her suit because of a prior court decision.  O’Connor found that she had been dismissed from the
nationwide case prior to the Supreme Court’s 2011 decision.  The federal appeals court in San Francisco in 2010 found
that class members who didn’t work for Wal-Mart when the
complaint was filed, “lacked standing to pursue injunctive or
declaratory relief,” O’Connor said.  Odle Too Late  “The class of former employees neither moved to stay the
mandate, nor appealed this issue to the Supreme Court,”
O’Connor said. “Once the mandate issued, it constituted a final
adverse determination as to Odle’s claims,” he said. Odle
failed to file a separate lawsuit in time, O’Connor said.  “Our view is that she wasn’t dismissed,” Sellers, the
plaintiffs’ lawyer, said yesterday. The appeals court “remanded
her claim” to the trial court in San Francisco to “consider
class certification under a different standard,” he said.  Wal-Mart lost a bid to dismiss a similar gender class
action in  California  last month. U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer in San Francisco said a reduced class limited to
California workers “could be certified.”  The women could pursue their claims as a group if they made
a “showing consistent with the Supreme Court’s decision” that
a nationwide class action isn’t appropriate, Breyer said.  The Texas case is Odle v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 3:11-
cv-02954, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
( Dallas ).  The California case is Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 01-
cv-02252, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Francisco). The Supreme Court case is Wal-Mart v. Dukes,
10-00277, U.S. Supreme Court ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  