-- Warren Raises $12 Million to $7.5 Million for Brown
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-10-15T17:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/warren-raises-12-million-to-7-5-million-for-brown.html
Elizabeth Warren  of Massachusetts,
one of the Democrats’ best bets for winning a Republican-held
U.S. Senate seat, has continued to raise more money than
incumbent Republican  Scott Brown , bringing in $12.1 million
during the last three months.  Warren, whose campaign announced her fundraising figures in
advance of today’s filing deadline with the Federal Election
Commission, has now taken in more than $36 million for her
campaign. Brown, who won a special election to succeed the late
 Edward Kennedy , reported raising $7.5 million over three months,
bringing his total to more than $27 million.  Political analysts  Charlie Cook  and Stuart Rothenberg have
rated Brown and  Dean Heller  of Nevada as the two most vulnerable
Senate Republican incumbents.  Brown, 53, entered October with more than $10 million in
the bank. Warren didn’t provide a cash-on-hand figure and her
campaign spokeswoman, Alethea Harney, didn’t respond to e-mails
and a phone call seeking that information.  Warren, 63, a Harvard University law professor, served as
an adviser to President Barack Obama and helped set up the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau created by the 2010
financial regulation law. Republican senators made clear they
would block Warren’s appointment to head the bureau, and Obama
named someone else to the post.  Finance Supporters  The financial community has been among the biggest donors
to Brown, with employees of Boston-based FMR LLC, whose Fidelity
Investments is the world’s largest mutual-fund company,
contributing more money to his campaign than those working
anywhere else, according to the Center for Responsive Politics,
a Washington-based research group that tracks campaign
donations.  Employees of  Goldman Sachs Group (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
both headquartered in New York, and Bain Capital LLC, the
private-equity firm co-founded by Republican presidential
nominee Mitt Romney, are also among his top backers.  Brown has received $2.7 million from employees in the
securities and investment industry, compared with $273,378 for
Warren. Through Aug. 17 she took in 43 percent of her donations
in amounts of $200 or less, compared with 15 percent for Brown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 