-- Watson, Actavis Agree to Sell Drug Rights in FTC Accord
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-10-15T22:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/watson-actavis-agree-to-sell-drug-rights-in-ftc-accord.html
Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) , maker
of the generic version of Lipitor cholesterol pills, agreed to
sell rights to 18 drugs to win approval from the U.S. Federal
Trade Commission for its purchase of Actavis Inc.  Watson and Actavis will sell the rights to Sandoz
International GmbH and Par Pharmaceuticals Inc. and give up
manufacturing and marketing rights to three other medicines to
resolve competition concerns, the FTC said in a statement today.  “The settlement protects competition in the markets for 21
current and future generic drugs used to treat a wide range of
conditions” that include hypertension, diabetes and anxiety and
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, the FTC said in the
statement.  Watson, based in Parsippany,  New Jersey , said on April 25
that it was buying closely held Actavis for 4.25 billion euros
($5.5 billion) to create the third-largest global generic-drug
maker. Revenue for 2012 was anticipated at $8 billion, the
company said.  According to the FTC’s administrative complaint, the
acquisition would have hurt competition in 21 generic-drug
markets including the generic version of Zyban, which is
designed to help people quit smoking, and the generic version of
Cardizem CD, which treats heart disorders including hypertension
and angina.  The FTC also said the merger would have reduced competition
in the future for six generic drugs that are in development by
both Watson and Actavis, including an acne treatment and an
extended-release patch used to treat  Alzheimer’s disease .  FTC commissioners voted 5-0 in favor of the complaint and
proposed settlement order, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington 
at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 