-- Wesfarmers Seeks Investors for A$700 Million of Coles Malls
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-10-15T23:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/wesfarmers-seeks-investors-for-a-700-million-of-coles-malls.html
Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) , Australia’s second
biggest retailer, is seeking institutional partners to co-invest
in about A$700 million ($717 million) of shopping centers held
by its Coles unit.  The Perth-based company wants to finalize its real estate
strategy by the end of 2012, said Simon Rooney, Sydney-based
head of Australian retail investments at broker Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc., which is advising Wesfarmers. The group is seeking
investments in about 25 malls, he said.  Westfield Group (WDC) ,  Centro Retail Australia (CRF)  and  Goodman Group (GMG) 
are among property companies that have established partnerships
with investors including the Canada Pension Plan Investment
Board and the Industry Superannuation Property Trust to free up
capital to fund developments and new ventures.  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) 
this month said it plans to spin off 69 stores and shopping
malls worth A$1.41 billion into a real estate investment trust
and offer existing investors shares in the new trust.  Unlike Woolworths, Wesfarmers won’t create a separate
entity, as it wants to retain “a degree of control, which will
give them the flexibility to develop the assets further in the
future and or embark on refurbishments or expansions,” Rooney
said by telephone today.  Alan Carpenter, a Perth-based spokesman for Wesfarmers,
declined to comment.  The Australian Financial Review reported Wesfarmers’ plan
today, without citing anyone. Wesfarmers has enlisted investment
banks Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc to advise the company, the newspaper said.  Wesfarmers reported an 11 percent increase in profit in the
year ended June after price cuts, store relocations and
increases in staff numbers at Coles supermarkets boosted sales.
Its  shares  have climbed 18 percent this year,  compared  with a 11
percent gain in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  