-- TMX Is Focused on Integration, Not Acquisitions, CEO Says
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-10-15T14:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/tmx-is-focused-on-integration-not-acquisitions-ceo-says.html
TMX Group Inc. (X)  will focus on
integrating recent acquisitions before seeking another deal,
Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Kloet  said, the latest indication
that no takeover of Direct Edge Holdings LLC is imminent.  “I’m not thinking about a big transaction,” Kloet said in
an interview at the World Federation of Exchange’s annual
conference in Taipei. “I’ve got to integrate CDS and Alpha and
that’s a big job. It’s at the heart of  Canada ’s markets
plumbing. Anything on M&A is secondary to this.”  Maple Group Acquisition Corp., the owner of TMX whose 12
members include Toronto-Dominion Bank, Ontario Teachers’ Pension
Plan and Manulife Financial Corp., completed acquisitions of the
Canadian Depository for Securities Ltd. clearing house and
exchange operator Alpha Trading Systems in August.  “It’s a little bit more complex than we thought in the
beginning,” Kloet said. “These kinds of integrations usually
take a year at least to piece together. We are about a year away
from full integration -- that includes planning and execution. I
want to do it right.”  The comments come one month after Direct Edge Chief
Executive Officer William O’Brien said the company is focused
on expanding its business on its own. The Wall Street Journal
reported in July that TMX was negotiating to acquire the fourth-
largest U.S. stock exchange operator.  No Discussions  “We’re not having discussions with anybody about a
significant transaction,” said O’Brien, whose Jersey City, New
Jersey-based company owns two U.S. equity exchanges, in a Sept.
19 interview. “There are no discussions currently ongoing.”  Speculation over a Direct Edge sale dates to December, when
the U.S. Justice Department made the divestiture of  Deutsche
Boerse AG (DB1) ’s stake, held through its International Securities
Exchange unit, a condition of its merger with  NYSE Euronext. (NYX) 
European regulators blocked the trans-Atlantic union two months
later and the Frankfurt-based exchange never sold.  TMX  bought  16 percent of the Bermuda Stock Exchange last
year and a majority stake in the Boston-based BOX Options
Exchange LLC.  Maple Group is creating an exchange operator that would
control more than 85 percent of Canada’s equities trading, the
Montreal Exchange derivatives bourse and the country’s main
securities clearing house. The company would combine the Toronto
Stock Exchange, TSX Venture Exchange and Alpha Exchange.  “I’m spending about 80 percent of my time on the
integration,” Kloet said. “That doesn’t mean we’d sit on the
sidelines for a year. This doesn’t stop us from talking to
people.”  LSE Merger  TMX had an agreement last year to combine with  London Stock
Exchange Plc. (LSE)  It failed to get shareholder support and the deal
was scrapped in June 2011. By last October, TMX agreed to a
transaction with Maple. More than $30 billion of global exchange
mergers have been scuttled in the last two years.  Thomas Caldwell, chairman and chief executive officer of
TMX holder Caldwell Securities Ltd., said on July 5 that the
company should seek takeovers of global competitors.  “I don’t want to do a transaction just for the sake of
doing one,” Kloet said. “With LSE, we were stronger together,
and that’s a litmus test we’d put on any transaction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  and @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  and @AndrewJRummer on Twitter 