-- Yen Drops to Month Low on Stocks, U.S. Growth Outlook
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-10-16T06:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/yen-remains-lower-as-u-s-outlook-saps-haven-demand.html
The yen declined against most of its
major peers as Asian stocks rose before U.S. data forecast to
show improvement in industrial production and housing starts,
reducing demand for refuge assets.  The Japanese currency slid for a fourth day to an almost
one-month low against the greenback after Federal Reserve Bank
of St. Louis President James Bullard said U.S. growth will pick
up next year and push down unemployment. Demand for the euro was
supported before European Union leaders meet this week to
discuss measures to contain the debt crisis. New Zealand’s
dollar slid after data showed annual inflation was the slowest
in more than 12 years.  “We’re looking for further improvement in U.S. data,”
said Mike Jones, a currency strategist at Bank of New Zealand in
Wellington. “The U.S. economy is set to outperform  Japan  and
 Europe , and that should see some support for the U.S. dollar and
weakness in the yen.”  The yen slipped 0.3 percent to 78.88 per dollar as of 7
a.m. in  London , adding to a 0.6 percent decline over the
previous three trading days. It touched 78.91, the weakest since
Sept. 19. Japan’s currency lost 0.5 percent to 102.32 per euro.
The euro added 0.2 percent to $1.2971.  The yen has fallen 5.1 percent this year, the worst
performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar and the euro
both declined 2.3 percent.  Industry, Housing  U.S. industrial production probably increased 0.2 percent
in September from the previous month, when it fell 1.2 percent,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before the Fed releases the figures today.  Economists in a separate poll predict that Commerce
Department data due Oct. 17 will show  new housing construction 
climbed 20,000 from August to a 770,000 annual rate last month,
the most since October 2008. The department reported yesterday
that retail sales  increased  1.1 percent last month, following a
revised 1.2 percent gain in August that was the biggest since
October 2010.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks climbed 0.8 percent
after a 0.8 percent advance in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
of U.S. shares yesterday.  Softbank, Sprint  Demand for the Japan’s currency was also limited after the
nation’s third-largest mobile-phone operator  Softbank Corp. (9984) 
agreed to buy a stake of about 70 percent in Kansas-based  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)  for $20.1 billion. That deal would be the biggest
publicly announced outbound acquisition by a Japanese company
since at least 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This move in the yen has more to do with talk of Japanese
corporate activity,” Emma Lawson, a Sydney-based currency
strategist at National Australia Bank Ltd., said in reference to
Softbank’s takeover of Sprint.  The yen is likely to weaken in the longer term, according
to Jens Nordvig, Nomura Holdings Inc.’s managing director of
currency research. Data are pointing to stronger outflows of
funds from the country, he wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  Nomura forecasts the yen will depreciate to 82 per dollar
at the end of the year and to 83 in the first quarter of 2013.  The greenback may advance to an eight-week high against the
yen should it breach key resistance levels, according to Bank of
Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., citing trading patterns.  U.S. Dollar  The dollar may strengthen to its 200-day moving average of
79.39 yen should it rise above the upper end of its daily
Bollinger band at 78.86 and the higher end of the Ichimoku cloud
at 78.90, said Teppei Ino, an analyst in Tokthe unit of
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s biggest financial
group by market value.  The 17-nation euro rose before EU leaders start a two-day
summit in Brussels on Oct. 18 amid speculation Spain will ask
for a financial bailout. The country is preparing to make
request for a rescue and allow the European Central Bank to
begin buying its debt, the Financial Times reported, citing an
unidentified Spanish economy ministry official.  “The market wants some signs that perhaps Spain’s been
compelled to ask for aid and some confirmation that  Greece  is
set to receive its next tranche,” Bank of New Zealand’s Jones
said. “If we see either of those scenarios, we would see a
relief rally in the euro.”  Consumer prices in New Zealand rose 0.8 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, the country’s statistics
bureau said in Wellington today. The result was the lowest since
the fourth quarter of 1999.  The New Zealand dollar dropped 0.3 percent to 81.64 U.S.
cents.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  