-- Zeti Says Malaysia Can Withstand Capital Flows: Southeast Asia
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-10-16T05:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/zeti-says-malaysia-can-withstand-capital-flows-southeast-asia.html
Malaysia can manage capital inflows
due to monetary easing in advanced economies, central bank
Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said, as Asian nations take steps to
prevent asset bubbles after the U.S. boosted stimulus.  The country has policy tools and the flexibility to absorb
any excess liquidity, said Zeti, who oversaw Malaysia’s
response to capital outflows during the Asian financial crisis
more than a decade ago. The Malaysian economy is withstanding
the impact of weakening global growth, with gross domestic
product forecast to expand about 5 percent this year, Zeti said
in an Oct. 14 interview in  Tokyo .  “We certainly are the recipient of capital flows but the
Malaysian financial system has reached a level of maturity in
terms of development and in its functioning that is able to
intermediate these flows, both surges of inflows as well as
reversals,” Zeti said. “The effects are disbursed through the
financial system rather than concentrated.”  Malaysia joins  Brazil  among  emerging markets  signaling
confidence they can counter any surge in fund flows stemming
from the U.S. Federal Reserve’s third round of quantitative
easing. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  two days ago rebutted
concern that the central bank’s decision to purchase $40
billion in mortgage-backed bonds a month will cause a
destabilizing influx of capital into developing economies.  Brazil’s central bank President Alexandre Tombini said
yesterday his country will defend itself from short-term
capital flows that bring financial instability and inflation
risks amid an easing push from major economies. “We have the
conditions to protect ourselves and we are doing that,” he
said.  Currency Risk  Indian Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram told U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  the Fed’s easing may
push commodity prices higher. Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said this month that QE3 risks aggravating currency
problems for emerging markets, and vowed to do whatever is
necessary to stop the “selfish” monetary policies of some
developed nations from hurting his country’s economy. Japanese
Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said last week his government
will act against disorderly gains in the yen.  Most Asian currencies have gained in the past three months,
and  Hong Kong  and  Singapore  unveiled measures to cool property
prices after the U.S. stimulus. Malaysia’s ringgit has climbed
about 4 percent since mid-July, the most among 11 Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the  Indian rupee .  First Woman  The first Malaysian woman to become central bank governor,
Zeti obtained a doctorate in economics from the  University of
Pennsylvania  in 1978, with a thesis focusing on international
capital flows and implications for macroeconomic policies. She
was assistant governor responsible for economics, reserves
management, money market and foreign exchange operations when
 Thailand  devalued the baht on July 2, 1997, setting off a
plunge in regional currencies. The ringgit fell 89 percent in
the next six months, dropping to 4.77 against the dollar.  Zeti was acting governor in 1998 when Malaysia set limits
on foreign-exchange transactions and fixed the ringgit at 3.8
to the dollar. The currency peg was scrapped on July 21, 2005.
The ringgit was at 3.0503 per dollar as of 1:51 p.m. local time.  The Malaysian central bank has kept  interest rates  steady
for eight meetings, most recently in September, as the lowest
inflation rate among  Southeast Asia ’s major economies reduced
the need to tighten policy.  Consumer prices  rose 1.4 percent in
August from a year earlier, staying at the lowest rate in more
than two years.  Strong Demand  “Right now on the horizon, the risk to inflation doesn’t
appear to be imminent,” Zeti said. “There is less of a risk
of inflation and given that we have excess capacity in our
economy, the risk is on growth. But again right now, domestic
demand is still relatively strong.”  The country’s monetary and fiscal policy is already “quite
accommodative,” Zeti said. Malaysia has refrained from joining
other Asian nations in lowering borrowing costs this year as
Prime Minister Najib Razak increases spending ahead of a
general election that must be held by early 2013.  “There is no big threat to growth prospects for Malaysia
and inflation has been surprisingly low,” said  Gundy Cahyadi ,
an economist in Singapore at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp.
“There’s room for monetary policy accommodation if necessary
but risks are not significant yet to trigger a cut. Any sort of
boost will need to come from monetary policy rather than the
fiscal side.”  Policy Flexibility  Asia  has “considerable policy flexibility” to respond to
external and domestic developments, although a prolonged delay
in the recovery in the advanced economies would erode this
scope, Zeti said in a speech in Tokyo on Oct. 13.  “It’s important for us to have room to maneuver in the
event things deteriorate, and so under these conditions we
should just sustain what we believe is a sustainable growth
path and maintain this growth trajectory,” she said. If policy
makers ease too soon, there will be less scope to do so later
if “things take a turn for the worse,” she said.  Najib cut income taxes, gave civil servants a bonus and
extended handouts for the poor in the 2013 budget announced
last month, with the government planning to spend 251.6 billion
ringgit ($82 billion) next year.  “We already have domestic demand growing, like
consumption by 7 percent, and investment by more than 10
percent,” Zeti said. “This is already the limits to which
domestic demand can expand without generating an overheating
environment.”  Growth Quickens  The government’s so-called economic transformation program
is also spurring investment and boosting sales for local
manufacturers and developers.  MTD ACPI Engineering Bhd. (ACP) , a
maker and supplier of precast concrete products, and
construction and property group  Sunway Bhd. (SWB)  have won contracts
for a mass railway project in the capital.  Economic growth  accelerated in the second quarter as
construction and consumption climbed. Gross domestic product
rose 5.4 percent in the three months through June from a year
earlier, after expanding 4.9 percent in the previous quarter.  Rising incomes and strong investment should help Malaysia
achieve “good growth” in the third and fourth quarters, Zeti
said. Growth in 2013 will be “much the same” unless the world
economy takes a turn for the worse, she said.  Still, demand for Malaysia’s goods has eased as global
growth weakens. Industrial output slid in August for the first
time in more than a year as manufacturing contracted, while
 overseas sales  tumbled the most since 2009 in the same month.  Europe ’s debt crisis has weighed on the world economy and
hurt Asian exports, with the  International Monetary Fund 
cutting its forecast for global growth last week.  Malaysia will probably refrain from selling global
sovereign bonds for now, Zeti said.  “The government is very cautious about entering into
increased foreign debt and they have significant access to
domestic sources of financing without crowding out private
investment because there is ample liquidity,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  