-- ZTE Slumps on Probable Loss in Third Quarter: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-15T08:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-15/zte-slumps-on-probable-loss-in-third-quarter-hong-kong-mover.html
ZTE Corp. (763) ,  China ’s second-largest
maker of telephone equipment, fell the most in three months in
 Hong Kong  trading after the company said it probably posted a
loss for the third quarter.  ZTE  dropped  16 percent to close at HK$10.56 in Hong Kong
trading, the largest decline since July 16. The  shares  have
fallen 57 percent this year, compared with a 15 percent gain for
the city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  The third-quarter net loss was probably as much as 2
billion yuan ($319 million), compared with profit of 299.3
million yuan a year earlier, Shenzhen-based ZTE said when
reporting preliminary results in a statement yesterday. A delay
in overseas projects, a change in the procurement system of
domestic operators, and a larger number of low-margin contracts
in Europe and  Asia  including China led to the loss, ZTE said.  “While we are not surprised to see the disappointing 3Q12
results as we have been cautious on the company’s margin
pressure, the magnitude of loss was much worse than expected,”
Jones Ku, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Barclays Plc, wrote in a
report today. “We believe the worst may not be over yet.”  ZTE received fewer new contracts in  Africa , where the
market is undergoing a “transitional stage,” the company said
in separate statement on its  website . It didn’t provide more
details on which overseas projects were delayed or how domestic
operators have changed their procurement system.  David Dai, a spokesman for ZTE, said he didn’t immediately
have additional information to provide.  Shenzhen Stock Drops  Shares of ZTE  traded  in Shenzhen fell 10 percent to 9.45
 yuan , the lowest level since Nov. 28, 2008.  The company held a conference call with analysts yesterday,
during which executives said ZTE hopes to break even this year,
according to Barclays’s Ku and Shenyin Wanguo Securities Co.
analyst Jim Tang, both of whom said they were on the call. ZTE’s
Dai said he didn’t have information available on data the
company supplied during the call.  On the call, ZTE forecast sales of 90 billion yuan to 93
billion yuan this year, Ku and Tang said. ZTE will probably post
 sales  of 100.6 billion yuan, based on the average of 28 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ZTE also cut its smartphone sales target to 25 million
units during the call, from a previous forecast of 26 million to
28 million, Ku and Tang said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  