-- Hadley Says Republicans Should Back Obama on Syria Strike
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-09-07T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/hadley-says-republicans-should-back-obama-on-syria-strike.html
Stephen Hadley, a former national
security adviser to President  George W. Bush , said Congress
should authorize a military strike against Syria even if it
risks retaliatory attacks and instability in neighboring Iraq.  Hadley, Bush’s top foreign policy adviser during the
Republican president’s second term, said it’s crucial to enforce
the “red line” President  Barack Obama  has declared against the
use of chemical weapons in Syria if  Iran  also is to be prevented
from developing nuclear weapons. It would be hard for Obama to
act without lawmakers’ approval, Hadley said.  “When I talk to Republicans, I say, ‘If you are concerned
about Iran and the threat of a nuclear-armed Iran, you better be
voting in favor of this resolution’” on Syria, Hadley said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with
 Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  If lawmakers reject Obama’s request for a congressional
resolution authorizing military force against Syria, Hadley
said, then “the red line, if you will, that we’ve put down with
Iran on its nuclear program doesn’t look credible.”  The Senate next week plans to take up a resolution intended
to punish the regime of President Bashar al-Assad for what the
U.S. says was its Aug. 21 use of chemical weapons that killed
more than 1,400 people near Damascus.  In the first test of support, the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee approved the resolution by 10-7 on Sept. 4.  ‘Hard Vote’  Obama, who plans to address the nation Tuesday to make his
case for a “limited” and “proportional” strike against
 Syria , may face greater resistance in the Republican-controlled
House, where he must overcome opposition from Tea Party members,
antiwar Democrats and members of both parties concerned about
drawing the U.S. into another Mideast war.  “It’s going to be a hard vote for Republicans,” Hadley
said. “They’re not enamored with the president. They don’t
really like the way he’s handled Syria policy.”  “But being where we are,” he said, “there’s really no
alternative but to authorize action in Syria.”  While Obama has legal authority to conduct a strike even if
Congress rejects his request, Hadley said, “I just, as a
practical matter, don’t see how he goes forward at that point
and says ‘Hey, I don’t need it, I’m going on my own.’”  Any strike should be followed by an increased effort to arm
moderate factions of the Syrian opposition, Hadley said, to
avoid letting groups aligned with al-Qaeda to gain control or
allowing Syria to “melt down into chaos.”  Arming Rebels  The administration has been reluctant to arm rebel groups,
partly because of the difficulty in discerning moderate from
extremist elements, and the risk that weapons could fall into
the wrong hands.  Hadley said that risk has been minimized by “an extreme
falling out” between the Free Syrian Army, the leading moderate
group, and groups affiliated with al-Qaeda.  “In fact, they’re fighting each other,” Hadley said of
the opposition forces, so the risk of U.S. weapons falling into
the hands of extremists “is now much less.”  If the U.S. doesn’t arm the moderates, Hadley said, Assad
could win, al-Qaeda could become dominant or Syria could be torn
apart. “None of those are good options for the  United States  or
for  Israel ,” he said.  While Obama was right to seek authorization from Congress,
Hadley said, the president erred by waiting too long.  “People have interpreted it as indecision and maybe lack
of will,” Hadley said. “That’s unfair, but it is nonetheless
how it’s being interpreted in the region, and that’s
unfortunate.”  Retaliatory Action  Hadley, now an adviser at the  U.S. Institute for Peace  in
 Washington , said a military strike risks retaliatory action by
Iran that could include directing Hezbollah, a Lebanon-based
Shiite militia, to attack U.S. embassies in the region.  A strike also risks further undermining stability in Iraq,
he said, which already is getting a spillover effect from Sunni
and Shia fighting in Syria.  “I’m really concerned about whether this doesn’t
completely destabilize  Iraq  as a result not just of what Syria’s
doing, of course, but compounded by a U.S. strike,” he said.  In the president’s televised address next week, Hadley
said, Obama must “emphasize the importance of this issue for
credibility of the United States globally,” Hadley said. “It’s
going to be hard, but it’s really the only option.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  