-- Hadley Says Republicans Must Support Obama on Syria (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2013-09-06T23:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/hadley-says-republicans-must-support-obama-on-syria-transcript-.html
Stephen Hadley, a former national
security adviser to President  George W. Bush , said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with
 Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that Congress should authorize a
military strike against Syria even if it risks retaliatory
attacks and instability in neighboring Iraq.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the program with former President George
W. Bush’s national security adviser, Stephen Hadley. Thank you
for being with us.  STEPHEN HADLEY: Nice to be with you.  HUNT: Should Congress vote up or down on the Syrian
resolution?  HADLEY: Congress should give the president authorization to
take action in Syria. They should vote it up. It’s going to be a
hard vote for Republicans. They - they’re not enamored with the
president. They don’t really like the way he’s handled  Syria 
policy. I think there are some legitimate grounds for saying
that we shouldn’t be where we are. But being where we are,
there’s really no alternative but to authorize action in Syria.  HUNT: If then Congress should not authorize action, if they
should reject it, either house, should and can the president go
ahead and do it on his own?  HADLEY: Well, the president, of course, has independent
authority under Article II of the Constitution. So as a legal
matter, as a theoretical matter, he certainly could. As a
practical matter, it just seems to me, having given this issue
to Congress, asked for authorization, provoked this, really,
quite vigorous national debate, if the Congress votes it down, I
just - as a practical matter - don’t see how he goes forward at
that point and says, “Hey, I don’t need it, I’m going on my
own.”  HUNT: Should he then not have asked the Congress?  And
should he have done it on his own?  HADLEY: No, I think he should have asked the Congress. This
is an important decision. Congress needs to be part of it. His
problem was he should have decided that he was going to go to
Congress about three weeks before he did.  HADLEY: And people have interpreted it as indecision and
maybe lack of will. I think that’s unfair, but it is nonetheless
how it’s being interpreted in the region, and that’s
unfortunate.  HUNT: If we do strike, if Congress does authorize this,
what are some of the possible consequences, ramifications? This
is the sort of thing you used to think about all the time. What
do you think the Russians might do?  And how should we respond?
And how about the Iranians or Hezbollah?  HADLEY: The Russians have indicated that they will continue
to support Syria, which means, of course, assisting Assad.
They’ve also indicated that they’re not going to take any
military action.  The real concern is about  Iran  and the concern that Iran
will decide that the president having acted - and I think it’s
more likely if the president acts with a limited demonstration
strike than if he does something more vigorous - but the risk is
that Iran will say, “We need to try to teach the president and
the American people a lesson that this is not free,” so as to
try to deter President Obama from using military action, if Iran
goes forward with a nuclear program. And that could take the
form of activity by Hezbollah attacking our embassies overseas,
maybe doing some missile attacks potentially into Israel. I
think that’s in some sense less likely.  I’m worried about some consequences of what this does to
 Iraq ; Iraq which was struggling to hold together a government
that included Sunni, Shia, and Kurds, under enormous pressure
from what’s happening in Syria next door. It’s beginning to
spread into Iraq. You have Sunni and - Iraqi Sunni and Shia
fighting each other in Syria, concern - and increased violence
within Iraq itself.  I’m really concerned about whether this doesn’t completely
destabilize Iraq as a - as a result, not just of what Syria’s
doing, of course, but compounded by a U.S. strike.  HUNT: How would it be read in Tehran if we don’t strike?  HADLEY: I think that’s one of the biggest problems. And
that’s why, if I were - and when I talk to Republicans, I say if
you are concerned about Iran and the threat of a nuclear-armed
Iran, you better be voting in favor of this resolution, because
having - the president having set down a red line for chemical
weapons use in Syria, if he does not enforce it, the - the red
line, if you will, that we’ve put down with Iran on its nuclear
program doesn’t look credible.  We’ve said that Iran needs to give up its nuclear program,
and if it does not do so, all options are on the table,
including the military option. If we don’t enforce the red line
in Syria, that threat looks empty. And if that threat looks
empty, I think there’s very little chance that we can get Iran
to be willing to negotiate away its nuclear weapons program.  HUNT: You have consistently said that the most important
thing we can do is to arm the good insurgents, but doesn’t
history suggest -  Afghanistan , even Iraq,  Libya  - that it’s
awful hard to separate the good from the bad, and there are a
lot of bad guys over there?  HADLEY: It is awful hard. There’s no doubt about it. And
the problem is, the longer this has gone, the harder it gets in
many ways, because there’s a more proliferation of groups. But
there’s some good news here. Six months ago, people were
concerned that if we armed the moderate, vetted, more democratic
elements, those weapons might get in the hands of terrorists
because they were allied with the terrorists in this effort
against Assad. That has changed.  There has been an extreme falling out between the Free
Syrian Army, for example, which is the leading moderate group,
and the al-Qaeda groups in northern Syria. And, in fact, they’re
fighting each other. So I think the risk that by giving them to
- weapons to these moderate elements they would fall into the
hands of the al-Qaeda groups is now much less.  HUNT: Is now much less. But why then do the Israelis seem
to come to a different calculation? They seem to think, hey, we
don’t like Assad, but we don’t want this other side to win,
either. We’re best off with a stalemate, because the radical
jihadists, even some associated with al-Qaeda or Iran, might
prove to be a dominant force, even if not the biggest numbers?  HADLEY: The problem with that strategy - stalemate
strategy, particularly if we do not start arming more of the
moderate democratic elements, is that becomes a more likely
option, rather than a less likely option. If we do not arm these
moderate elements, you’ve got three potential outcomes: Assad
wins and re-establishes control, which is a disaster for our
policy in the region; or al-Qaeda continues to emerge as the
leading element of the opposition, and you have an al-Qaeda-led
opposition taking control; or you melt down into chaos.  HUNT: Right.  HADLEY: None of those are good options for the  United
States  or for  Israel . And I believe that the only way we’re
going to get to a good outcome is if the president uses military
force in Syria not just on the WMD issue, but to try to degrade
Assad’s military capability by going after the military - the
missiles and the aircraft and the airfields, weaken them, and
then arm the moderate elements, so that at some point, when some
of the elements associated with Assad become convinced that he’s
not going to win and, in fact, he’s a long-term loser, they will
break from the regime, and you can form a government of the more
moderate, democratic elements of the opposition, and those
elements of the regime - of the military and the business
community - that want to be part of the new Syria.  HUNT: We only have a few seconds left, but what should be
the major pitch or thrust of what President Obama says when he
addresses the nation Tuesday?  HADLEY: He’s got to emphasize the importance of this issue
for credibility of the United States globally. He’s got to make
a strong case that this is an integral part of our strategy on
Iran. And he’s got to make a case that we now are going to try
to have a strategy that is going to - that is going to give us
an acceptable outcome in Syria.  HUNT: Stephen Hadley, thank you so much for being with us.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 