-- Mahler, Mugabe See Shrinks, Stay Crazy: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-09-06T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/mahler-mugabe-see-shrinks-stay-crazy-jeremy-gerard.html
The famous folks frequenting the
Vienna cafe in 1910 reads like the Who’s Who of a Tom Stoppard
play: Gustav Mahler and his wife, Alma; young Ludwig Wittgenstein; younger  Josef Stalin  and, doling out sage advice,
homburg-topped, cigar-smoking  Sigmund Freud .  Otho Eskin’s “Final Analysis” is no “Travesties,” though it
is a travesty, reducing brilliant minds and disturbing passions
to soap-operatics and dime-store psychologizing.  Rigid Mahler turns to Freud to find out why relations with
fiery Alma have gone cold. “Frere Jacques” threads through
Gustav’s dreams of mommy, while his first symphony plays in the
background.  Wittgenstein mumbles philosophically about his latent
homosexual urgings. Stalin grows rantier by the minute. Anti-Semitism simmers in the coffee-scented klatsches as war looms.  Simplistic and at times distasteful in its reductivism,
“Final Analysis” is crudely staged by Ludovica Villar-Hauser;
characters trundle on and off the stage to deliver silly lines
in brief, disjointed scenes. It’s a cartoon. (Rating: *)  Robert Mugabe  Ezra Barnes, the good actor who plays Mahler poorly, takes
a turn as a shrink himself in “ Breakfast With Mugabe ,” about the
tyrant in revolutionist’s clothing obsessed with the illusion
that “free” elections keep him in power and invest him with an
open mandate.  Driven half-mad by blood lust and power, the black
Zimbabwean President  Robert Mugabe  (Michael Rogers) has summoned
Barnes’s white psychiatrist Andrew Peric (Barnes) to exorcize an
“ngozi,” or poltergeist, that’s been torturing him. It may be
the spirit of a political rival dispatched under suspicious
circumstances.  Peric reluctantly agrees to treat the president, demanding,
a la “ The King’s Speech ,” that his patient defer to him. Let’s
just say this makes Mugabe uncomfortable.  The leader’s wife, Grace, has an agenda too: Mugabe’s
paranoia has interfered with her shopping expeditions. She wants
her freedom, or at least her driver, back.  Based on a rumor that Mugabe sought treatment around the
time of his 2002 election, “Breakfast” is strongly acted (Rogers
has an uncanny gift for the leader’s physical tics and vocal
mannerisms), but dramatically inert.  Although its violent climax is unearned and melodramatic,
the play never lost my attention. Credit director David
Shookhoff and a strong cast.
Rating: ***  “Final Analysis” and “Breakfast With Mugabe” run in
repertory through Oct. 6 at the Pershing Square Signature
Center, 480 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-212-279-4200;
 http://www.ticketcentral.com .  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and  New York   Weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 