-- Maldives Prepares for Leadership Vote After President’s Ouster
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-09-06T11:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/maldives-prepares-for-leadership-vote-after-president-s-ouster.html
The Indian Ocean nation of  Maldives ,
famous for its beaches and marred by political unrest last year,
holds democratic presidential elections for the second time in
its history tomorrow.  President Mohamed Waheed is seeking a second term in the
country of 1,190 islands and 350,000 people. His main challenger
is former President Mohamed Nasheed, who left office last year
in what he called a coup and faces trial on abuse-of-power
charges for ordering the arrest of a judge.  A disputed vote may mar the Maldives’ transition from
autocracy after Nasheed became the nation’s first democratically
elected leader in 2008 following 30 years of rule by Maumoon
Abdul Gayoom. A power struggle could encourage hardline Islamist
groups in the mostly Muslim nation, which is located near busy
shipping lanes.  “The Maldives matters because it is strategically located
and it’s a young democracy, one of the few in the Islamic
world,” said S. Chandrasekharan, director of the South Asia
Analysis Group. “My fear is that some people will not accept
the result and there will political violence.”  The Maldives derives almost 30 percent of its gross
domestic product from tourism, according to the World Bank, and
is renowned for its beaches and scuba diving. The country’s
population is scattered across 200 of its islands southwest of
 India .  Ministry Apology  The archipelago nation’s tourism industry suffered in 2010
after a video appeared online of a resort employee mocking two
Swiss tourists in the local Dhivehi language as he officiated a
ceremony to renew their wedding vows. He called the couple
“swine” and “infidels” in an incident that later prompted a
government apology.  Nasheed, who was jailed under Gayoom’s regime, left office
after he ordered the arrest of the chief judge on accusations of
failing to act impartially. Nasheed, who says he quit amid
threats of violence by rebellious police and soldiers that
amounted to a coup, was arrested and is now free on bail
awaiting his trial.  If retakes the presidency, Nasheed will be immune from
prosecution while in office, according to Chandrasekharan.  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon “encourages
all presidential candidates to respect the election results no
matter who wins, and asks that all stakeholders overcome their
past differences,” his office said this week.  Nasheed vowed today to bring the “perpetrators of the
coup” against him to justice if he’s elected, Press Trust of
India reported. A commission of inquiry rejected his claim that
he was ousted at gunpoint.  Polling will start at 7:30 a.m. and finish by 4 p.m. The
Maldives will hold a run-off between the top two vote-getters if
no candidate wins more than 50 percent in the first round.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  