-- Malkins Reject Empire State Building’s Buyout Proposals
-- B y   K a r a   W e t z e l   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-09-06T22:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/malkins-reject-empire-state-building-s-buyout-proposals.html
Malkin Holdings LLC, the supervisor
of New York’s Empire State Building, is proceeding with a plan
to form a publicly traded real estate investment trust after
receiving buyout offers for the tower.  The company reviewed the proposals to purchase control of
the Empire State Building or its operating lease positions and
determined that an initial public offering is in investors’ best
interest, according to a regulatory filing today.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) 
acted as the Malkins’ independent adviser.  Bidders including Rubin Schron’s Cammeby’s International
and Joseph Sitt’s Thor Equities LLC made unsolicited offers for
the Empire State Building as an alternative to the planned IPO.
Malkin Holdings Chairman  Peter Malkin  and his son Anthony, the
company’s president, began the effort to form the REIT 18 months
ago, and in May won enough votes from investors in the
skyscraper to proceed with the transaction following a battle
with dissident investors.  The Malkins’ plan calls for the formation of a REIT holding
the landmark skyscraper and 20 other properties. An appraisal of
the Empire State Building values the skyscraper at $2.53
billion, according to the Malkins’ valuation firm, and it’s
unclear if any of the bids topped that price.  Jason Meister, a broker with Avison Young who represented
some of the bidders, said all options are still “completely on
the table” and he would like to see the details of Lazard’s
analysis.  “I would think the investors would be interested in
understanding why the REIT was a better alternative,” he said
in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kara Wetzel in  New York  at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  