-- American Homes 4 Rent to Let Investors Share in Values
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-09-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/american-homes-4-rent-to-let-investors-share-in-values.html
American Homes 4 Rent (AMH) , the second-largest buyer of single-family rental houses, plans to raise
money by offering investors a chance to share in property-value
appreciation as well as rental income.  The company, which was founded by billionaire B. Wayne Hughes and raised $811.8 million in a July initial public
offering including an overallotment, plans to sell preferred
shares that will increase in value as its rental homes
appreciate, according to a filing made yesterday with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. American Homes proposes to
raise $100 million, a placeholder amount that’s used to
calculate fees and may change.  The participating shares “have an initial liquidation
preference of $25 per share, which may be increased by an
additional Home Price Appreciation Amount” that takes into
account prices in the company’s 20 largest markets, the Agoura
Hills, California-based company said in the filing.  Real estate investment trusts,  hedge funds  and private-equity firms have raised at least $18 billion to buy more than
100,000 rental houses in the last two years, taking advantage of
housing prices that fell as much as 35 percent from their 2006
peak and rising demand from people who can’t afford to purchase
a property.  While home  prices  have been increasing at their fastest
pace since 2006, shares of the single-family rental REITs have
fallen since their IPOs as the companies struggle to show they
can make money leasing individual residences scattered around
the country.  American Homes 4 Rent, the largest owner of single-family
rentals after Blackstone Group LP’s Invitation Homes unit, fell
1.3 percent to $15.84 yesterday. The shares were priced at $16
each on July 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  