-- American Tower to Acquire Global Tower in $3.3 Billion Deal
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-09-06T20:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/american-tower-agrees-to-buy-global-tower-in-3-3-billion-deal.html
American Tower Corp. (AMT) , the biggest
operator of cellular towers in the U.S., agreed to acquire the
parent company of rival Global Tower Partners for about $3.3
billion, giving it thousands of additional wireless sites as the
appetite for next-generation services grows.  American Tower is buying MIP Tower Holdings LLC, a closely
held real estate investment trust that owns Global Tower
Partners and related companies, according to a statement today.
The deal brings American Tower about 5,400 U.S. towers and the
management rights to more than 9,000 additional sites. Including
debt, the purchase price is about $4.8 billion.  The tower industry is consolidating, with fewer companies
controlling bigger swaths of equipment amid booming demand for
mobile communications and the gear needed to transmit signals.
Low  interest rates  also may be spurring American Tower to make
deals, said James Moorman, an analyst at S&P Capital IQ Inc.  “This puts them in a good position before interest rates
go up,” said Moorman, who has a buy recommendation on American
Tower shares. “It also gives them more exposure to the next leg
of network expansion, which is starting more quickly than
expected due to capacity needs.”  This is the second major acquisition in the past two months
by American Tower. Last month the Boston-based company agreed to
buy almost 4,500 wireless sites from  NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD)  in Brazil
and  Mexico  for $811 million.  Shares Gain  American Tower shares  climbed 4.6 percent to $71.91 at the
close in  New York . The stock has declined 6.9 percent this year.  Including debt, today’s acquisition would be one of the 10
biggest telecommunications takeovers of the year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It follows two blockbuster deals
earlier this week: Verizon Communications Inc. agreed to
purchase Vodafone Group Plc’s stake in  Verizon Wireless  for $130
billion, and Microsoft Corp. announced plans to buy Nokia Oyj’s
mobile-phone business for $7.2 billion.  American Tower’s acquisition, slated to be completed in the
fourth quarter, will generate about $345 million in revenue and
$270 million in gross profit next year, the company said.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and EA Markets Securities LLC served as
American Tower’s financial advisers, with Clifford Chance US LLP
and Sullivan & Worcester LLP offering legal counsel. Global
Tower Partners was advised by Deutsche Bank AG.  Complementary Assets  “GTP has constructed and acquired an outstanding U.S.
portfolio of tower, rooftop and land assets, which is highly
complementary to that of American Tower,” Jim Taiclet, chief
executive officer of American Tower, said in the statement.
“GTP’s management of these assets has been excellent.”  The additional towers will help the company keep up with
the shift to fourth-generation networks. Carriers also need
greater coverage density as they plan to sell more mobile data
services, Moorman said. The four largest U.S. carriers -- all of
which are American Tower customers -- are upgrading their
systems to a standard called long-term evolution, or LTE, giving
users faster access to video and the Web.  American Tower and chief rival  Crown Castle International
Corp. (CCI)  are playing an increasingly vital role in the wireless
industry, with many carriers selling their antennas to the
companies and leasing them back. American Tower, which already
had about  56,000 properties in its portfolio  before today’s
transaction, also makes deals with landowners to put cell sites
on their land. The infrastructure lets mobile-phone customers
place calls and connect to the Internet.  Costa Rica  In addition to the domestic towers, the Global Tower deal
also will bring 500 communications sites in  Costa Rica , American
Tower said. The acquisition doesn’t include any antenna sites in
Mexico, Taiclet said on a conference call with analysts today.  Global Tower is majority owned by Macquarie Infrastructure
Partners, an investment fund in New York and a unit of Sydney-based Macquarie Group Ltd.  The global LTE rollout is poised to keep generating growth
for the tower industry for some time, Moorman said.  “We think with the next phase of LTE starting here, and
LTE expanding internationally, that growth is still coming for
the tower companies,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  