-- Manning Throws NFL-Record Seven TD Passes as Broncos Win Opener
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-06T05:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/manning-throws-nfl-record-seven-td-passes-as-broncos-win-opener.html
Peyton Manning  started the National
Football League season in record fashion, throwing seven
touchdown passes to lead the  Denver Broncos  to a 49-27 win
against the defending Super Bowl champion  Baltimore Ravens .  Manning is the sixth player in NFL history to throw seven
scoring passes in a game and the first since Joe Kapp in 1969.  Five of Manning’s scoring passes came during the second
half as the Broncos erased a 17-14 halftime deficit last night
at Sports Authority Field at Mile High in Denver.  Wes Welker ,
Julius Thomas and  Demaryius Thomas  each caught two touchdown
passes for the Broncos, who avenged a 38-35 double-overtime home
loss to the Ravens in last year’s playoffs.  “It was an awesome night,” Manning said in a televised
interview. “Baltimore has got a great defense and we had to be
patient. We knew we could get some shots.”  The Broncos, who went 13-3 last season before losing to the
Ravens, entered Week 1 as Super Bowl favorites, with the Las
Vegas Hotel’s Super Book listing them at 5-1 odds. The Ravens
were tied for 14th among the league’s 30 teams, with 30-1 odds
of back-to-back titles.  While the game was close early, the Broncos pulled away in
the second half behind the 37-year-old Manning, a four-time NFL
Most Valuable Player in his second season in Denver. Manning
completed 27 of 42 passes for 462 yards and joined Kapp, Sid Luckman (1943), Adrian Burk (1954), George Blanda (1961) and Y.A.
Tittle (1962) as the only quarterbacks with seven touchdown
passes in an NFL game.  Manning and the Broncos took control by scoring touchdowns
on their first three third-quarter possessions.  Broncos’ Lead  Denver went ahead 21-17 on Manning’s 28-yard touchdown pass
to Andre Caldwell and extended its lead just over two minutes
later as Welker caught a short pass from Manning and spun free
for a five-yard score.  Welker’s touchdown came two plays after the Broncos blocked
a punt and made him the first player in NFL history to catch
scoring passes from both Manning and  Tom Brady , who have six MVP
awards between them. Welker, who joined the Broncos during the
offseason after spending the past six years with the  New England
Patriots , then caught a 2-yard touchdown pass on Denver’s next
possession for a 35-17 lead.  “We saw Wes Welker is as good as we thought he was,”
Manning said.  Manning also dropped a 26-yard pass into the hands of
Demaryius Thomas less than two minutes into the fourth quarter
to equal his previous career high of six touchdowns in a game.  Premature Celebration  The Broncos missed a chance to push their lead to 32 points
when linebacker Danny Trevathan dropped the ball just before the
end zone in a premature celebration after returning an
interception for what appeared to be a sure touchdown. The
Ravens regained possession and scored on  Joe Flacco ’s second
touchdown pass, a 13-yarder to Marlon Brown.  After a Ravens field goal, Manning’s record-tying seventh
touchdown came on a short pass to Demaryius Thomas, who broke
free up the middle for a 78-yard score.  “He made some nice throws, but we can play better,”
Ravens coach  John Harbaugh  said at a news conference. “We gave
him too many open guys, too many things that we have to get
better at.”  The Broncos never led during the first half, as the Ravens
were up 7-0, 14-7 and 17-14 after a two-yard touchdown catch by
fullback Vonta Leach, a 1-yard run by  Ray Rice  and a 25-yard
field goal by Justin Tucker.  Manning hooked up with Julius Thomas, a former college
basketball player, for both of Denver’s first-half touchdowns.
The first came one play after an interception thrown by Flacco
at Baltimore’s 24-yard line. The second was from 23 yards out
and came after the Ravens had taken a 14-7 lead following a
fumbled punt return by Welker at the Denver 1-yard line.  Julius Thomas, a fourth-round draft pick out of Portland
State in 2011, had one catch during his first two NFL seasons.  Road Ravens  Last night marked the first time in 10 years that the
reigning Super Bowl champions played their season opener on the
road. The Ravens weren’t able to play at home due to a
scheduling conflict with the  Baltimore Orioles , who hosted a
Major League Baseball game last night and are in the hunt for a
playoff spot. The two teams share the same parking facilities.  The start of last night’s game was delayed for more than a
half-hour because of lightning in the Denver area.  The NFL’s first full day is Sept. 8, when 13 games are
scheduled, including the  New York  Giants visiting the  Dallas
Cowboys  in the first Sunday night game of the season. There are
two games on Sept. 9, including the  Washington Redskins  hosting
the  Philadelphia Eagles  and new coach Chip Kelly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  