-- App Makers Crowdfund to Avoid Blindside Hit of FDA Rules
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-09-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/app-makers-crowdfund-to-avoid-blindside-hit-of-fda-rules.html
It sounded like a good idea at the
time: A smartphone application that tapped into a growing
consumer desire to self-diagnose health ailments at home.  Biosense Technologies Private Ltd. made a splash in
February when it unveiled a kit that lets people use their phone
cameras to read subtle color differences on test strips designed
to show unhealthy levels of proteins and other substances in
their urine. What the creators didn’t anticipate was the need
for U.S. government approval.  Now Biosense is adjusting to a new reality. After receiving
a letter from the  Food and Drug Administration  questioning the
company’s lack of regulatory clearance, Biosense has stopped
selling its kit in the U.S. and now plans to seek approval. The
letter offered a glimpse into a new push by the FDA to set
 boundaries  in how apps are used for medical care.  “There’s a gigantic gulf between the tech industry as a
whole and the medical regulatory infrastructure,”  David Jones ,
chairman and managing director of venture capital company
Chrysalis Ventures, said in an interview.  To bridge that gap, Biosense, a closely held company based
in Thane,  India , decided to put the future of its product,
called uChek, at the mercy of the masses. The startup has taken
to the Internet to seek out customers who would pre-order uChek
to help the company raise $42,000 by Sept. 10 to meet basic
regulatory requirements in  Europe , as well as some additional
money to comply with U.S. standards.  Crowd Wisdom  The kit lets users dip test strips made by  Siemens AG (SIE)  and
 Bayer AG (BAYN)  in urine and use a smartphone camera and an app,
available for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ) ’s Android phones, to process results for as many as 14
substances to help determine the risk for more than 60 diseases.  “If your idea doesn’t carry weight, your customers aren’t
going to buy it,” said Myshkin Ingawale, a Biosense co-founder,
said in an interview. “It could potentially be a great way to
validate a new idea in a very lean fashion.”  The FDA hasn’t sent letters to any other app makers as of
yet, said Erica Jefferson, an agency spokeswoman. Biosense
registered the app April 5, sold its first device April 28 and
received the FDA letter May 21.  The mobile health app market is estimated to reach $26
billion by 2017, according to a March report by
Research2Guidance, a consulting company based in Berlin. There
are 97,000 mobile health applications in major app stores though
only 9 percent of revenue will come from app downloads over the
next five years while 84 percent will result from related
services and products such as sensors, the firm said.  Majority Unapproved  The vast majority of those apps haven’t been cleared
through the FDA as the agency determines what level of oversight
it may implement. Once the agency decides an app should have
clearance, though, a company must comply or it risks the product
being removed from the market.  UChek has yet to reach the halfway mark of its fundraising
goal, taking in $15,019 in pre-orders as of Sept. 4 through
Indiegogo Inc.’s crowdfunding website. It first introduced the
app to the public in February at the TED2013 conference.  The potential for more development in the industry is
there. A mobile technology company called Scanadu, based in
Moffett Field,  California , broke fundraising records on
Indiegogo recently with its $1.6 million haul for a health
vital-signs monitor.  Scanadu plans to seek approval for the monitor, called
Scout, which can be held between two fingers and connects
wirelessly to an app on a smartphone to read a user’s  blood
pressure , temperature, heart activity and other vital signs.  ‘Consumer Empowering’  “The models are Google- and Facebook-kind of consumer
empowering tools where the wisdom of the crowd can rate the
effectiveness of the app,” said Jones, whose Louisville,
Kentucky-based venture capital firm specializes in health-care
and technology investments.  That wisdom of the crowd also determines whether it’s worth
a company’s time and money to seek out regulatory approval,
which can cost tens of thousands of dollars and take several
months or even years to get an FDA decision.  With health care coming to crowdfunding, Jack Lasersohn, a
partner at the venture capital firm Vertical Group, said
investors must be aware of the potential for FDA regulation.  “In  venture capital , there are people who invest in med
tech and biotech and there are people who don’t,” Lasersohn
said. “One of the reasons is, it takes years and years to
understand, to really master, the regulatory system, which is
very complicated.”  Pre-Order Chance  Biosense’s  crowdfunding  page on Indiegogo simply offers
people a chance to pre-order the product, pending regulatory
approval.  The company said its goal is “democratizing” health care
and it has to raise its full funding goal or the money will be
returned.  The mobile app world is watching the Biosense experiment
and trying to determine the FDA’s level of reach, Jeffrey Gibbs,
a lawyer at the Washington-based firm Hyman, Phelps & McNamara,
said in an interview. The letter is the first glimpse into what
the FDA may require of app makers since the agency hasen’t
completed the guidelines manufacturers hope will distinguish
when an app requires regulation, he said.  “Because of a lack of guidance, a letter like this, which
in the great scheme of things shouldn’t be given much deference,
people are trying to read a lot into it,” Gibbs said. “FDA
regulation will have an effect on innovation and the
dissemination of apps. App people have a background in venture
capital and software. Right now they might not be aware of FDA
regulation.”  2011 Guidelines  The FDA drafted guidelines in 2011 it aims to finalize this
year that would require apps that diagnose or treat conditions
to meet similar quality standards as heart stents, ultrasound
machines and other medical devices.  The agency would require a 510(k) application, which is the
least stringent of FDA device approval pathways that doesn’t
typically warrant clinical trials and only requires a company
prove its product is similar to one on the market.  Verizon gained FDA clearance for a remote patient-monitoring system Aug. 8. The FDA review process took a “little
less than a year,” Janet Brumfield, a spokeswoman for New York-based Verizon, said in an e-mail.  For now, Biosense has vacillated on seeking FDA clearance
to once again make the app available in the U.S. While Biosense
recently said enough Americans want an updated version of the
device it is selling for $84, the $42,000 the company is seeking
to raise will actually cover the cost of a CE mark that
indicates compliance with European Union safety standards,
Ingawale said.  “The CE mark is more widely accepted across the world than
the U.S. FDA certification,” he said.  Ingawale aims to gain a CE mark by the end of the year.  If Biosense raises the full $42,000, the funds will cover
an EU review and the company will foot the bill for an extra
$7,000 to cover additional costs for the less stringent of two
kinds of 510(k) review by the FDA, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  