-- Apple Judge Orders Monitor for E-Book Antitrust Case
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-09-06T15:45:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/apple-judge-orders-monitor-for-e-book-antitrust-case.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s biggest
technology company, was barred from entering into
anticompetitive contracts with electronic-book publishers, two
months after a judge said it played a “central role” in a
conspiracy to fix prices.  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in  Manhattan  also will
appoint a monitor to review Apple’s antitrust compliance
policies, according to an order made public today that narrows
many provisions sought by the U.S. government. Cote last week
said the order would rest “as lightly as possible” on how
Apple does business.  “Apple shall not enter into or maintain any agreement with
an e-book publisher where such agreement likely will increase,
fix, or set the price at which other e-book retailers can
acquire or sell e-books,” Cote said in the order.  Cote rejected government requests that she give the monitor
broader authority over Apple’s business practices, order changes
to how Apple sells e-books through electronic applications, and
regulate content sold by Apple other than e-books, including
digital music.  Cote said the order will expire after five years instead of
the 10 years requested by the Justice Department. Apple plans to
appeal the order, spokesman  Tom Neumayr  said.  “Apple did not conspire to fix e-book pricing,” Neumayr
said in an e-mailed statement. “The iBookstore gave customers
more choice and injected much needed innovation and competition
into the market.”  The U.S. is pleased with the order, Assistant Attorney
General Bill Baer said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Restore Competition’  “Consumers will continue to benefit from lower e-books
prices as a result of the department’s enforcement action to
restore competition in this important industry,” he said.  The U.S. sued Cupertino, California-based Apple and five
book publishers in April 2012. After a trial, which began June
3, Cote ruled July 10 that Apple violated antitrust laws in its
contracts with five of the six biggest book publishers.  Apple was found liable to 33 states that joined the  Justice
Department  in the suit and faces a separate trial on damages
sought by the states. The Justice Department didn’t ask for
money damages in its case.  The case is U.S. v. Apple Inc., 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  