-- Harper Offers Obama Climate Action for Keystone Approval
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-09-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/harper-offers-obama-climate-action-for-keystone-cbc-says.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  has offered to participate in joint efforts with the U.S.
to cut greenhouse-gas emissions to win approval of the Keystone
XL pipeline, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Harper sent a letter to President  Barack Obama  last month
as part of an effort to mollify U.S. concerns about the
pipeline, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because he is not authorized to discuss it publicly.
Environmentalists are urging Obama to reject the pipeline,
saying it will contribute to global warming.  The offer from Harper might give Obama an opening to seek
accommodations as a way to approve the project while blunting
the complaints of increasingly active environmentalists.  “We recognize that  climate change  is a global issue and we
are always willing to work together with other jurisdictions to
accomplish common goals,” Diana McQueen,  Alberta ’s Minister of
Environment and Sustainable Resource Development, said in an e-mail. “A North American strategy is important for both  Canada 
and the United States to maintain strong environmental
protection,  job creation , economic growth and  energy security .”  The White House hasn’t responded to Harper’s letter,
according to the Canadian Broadcasting Corp. Harper’s plan to
raise the issue with Obama at the Group of 20 meeting in  St.
Petersburg , Russia, yesterday was sidelined by the discussion on
 Syria , the CBC reported on its website.  An Obama administration official, who wasn’t authorized to
discuss the matter publicly and asked not to be identified,
couldn’t confirm yesterday whether Harper’s letter had been
received by the White House.  Georgetown Speech  In June at  Georgetown University  in  Washington , Obama in a
speech declared Keystone shouldn’t be approved if it were found
to “significantly exacerbate” carbon pollution. The U.S. State
Department is reviewing  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s request to build the
$5.3 billion link from Alberta’s oil sands to U.S. refineries on
the U.S. coast of the  Gulf of Mexico .  The U.S. State Department referred calls about the letter
to the White House. The White House press office didn’t respond
to requests for comment.  “We do not comment on correspondence between leaders,”
Stephen Lecce, a spokesman for Harper, said in an e-mail. “The
prime minister raises the job-creating Keystone XL project every
time he speaks with the president.”  TransCanada applied in September 2008 to build Keystone.
The company changed the route to avoid a sensitive ecosystem in
Nebraska after state officials warned of environmental risks.  ‘Strong Ambassador’  The State Department said it won’t complete its
environmental-impact review until after reviewing and publishing
1.5 million public comments, a months-long process. Mandatory
comment periods could push the decision to late this year or
early next year.  “We have not seen the letter but as we have said before,
the Canadian government has been a strong ambassador for
Keystone XL,” said Shawn Howard, a spokesman for TransCanada.
“As a country, Canada has a great track record on the
environment –- and is the only country that the U.S. currently
imports oil from that has substantial greenhouse-gas emissions
regulations in place.”  “Despite the rhetoric from the professional activists,”
Howard said. “Keystone XL will move oil long distances with
almost no direct emissions.”  Canada has so far failed to take meaningful action on
curbing pollution linked to global warming, according to Clare
Demerse, director of federal policy at the Pembina Institute, a
Calgary-based group that supports clean energy.  ‘Uniquely Canadian’  “The  oil sands  is a uniquely Canadian issue,” Demerse
said in an interview. “So joint work with the U.S. is not the
answer for the oil sands sector, which is the single largest
source of the growth in our greenhouse gas pollution. It’s
Canada’s responsibility.”  TransCanada has said the pipeline could carry 830,000
barrels of oil a day with 100,000 barrels reserved for the light
sweet crude from the Bakken formation in North Dakota and
 Montana .  “A key question is whether or not Harper would be amenable
to greenhouse gas reductions that would be directly linked to
tar sands,” said Daniel J. Weiss, director of climate strategy
at the Center for American Progress, a Washington-based think
tank with close ties to the administration. Only then, Weiss
said, would such a plan help meet what Obama has said is a key
test the project, he said.  Greenhouse Gas  A March draft environmental impact statement found that the
project wouldn’t significantly increase greenhouse-gas emissions
because the oil sands would be developed without Keystone, and
shipped out through other pipelines or by rail.  Environmental advocates have challenged the State
Department conclusion and said no trade-off is possible to
compensate for the expansion of production of oil-sands in
Alberta.  “Keystone is an expansion project for the  tar sands ,”
Daniel Kessler, a spokesman for the group 350.org, which is
leading the fight against the pipeline, said in an e-mail.
“There is no deal that would be palatable to us.”  In April, the Globe and Mail in Toronto reported that
Alberta’s government presented a proposal to increase levies on
carbon pollution and force oil sands producers to cut emissions
as much as 40 percent.  “The Harper government has gotten really good at rolling
out these vague plans, and then stepping on the brakes,” Eddie
Scher, a spokesman for the  Sierra Club , said in an interview.
Compensating for digging up the oil sands and burning it for
fuel, “doesn’t pass the laugh test.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  