-- Arsenal to Make Another Major Signing in January: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-06T09:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/arsenal-to-make-another-major-signing-in-january-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Another Major Signing  Arsenal will give manager Arsene Wenger permission to make
another major signing in the January trade window as the Gunners
continue to monitor  Luis Suarez ’s situation at Liverpool, the
 Daily Mirror reported .  Following this week’s club-record acquisition of Real
Madrid playmaker Mesut Ozil, Arsenal officials will bankroll the
acquisition of a proven center-forward, the newspaper added.  Courtois Courted  Barcelona wants Chelsea’s Thibaut Courtois, who’s currently
on loan at Atletico Madrid, to replace  Victor Valdes  as its
first-choice goalkeeper next season, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Belgian is said to be keenly interested in joining the
Catalan club as  Petr Cech  blocks his path to the starting role
at Chelsea, the newspaper added.  Woodward’s Transfer Woe  Manchester United Executive Vice Chairman Ed Woodward
privately admitted that the Premier League champion failed to
bring in the quota of players wanted by manager  David Moyes  in
the pre-season transfer window, the  Mirror reported .  Moyes had wanted two central midfielders and a left-back to
challenge first-choice Patrice Evra, though United only signed
Everton midfielder Marouane Fellaini, the Mirror added.  Too Unfit  West Ham United abandoned plans to re-sign Carlton Cole
because of concerns over his fitness, the  Daily Star reported .  Cole, 29, was given another chance by West Ham manager Sam Allardyce after being released at the end of last season, though
was told he isn’t fit enough to be offered a contract following
a medical, the newspaper added.  Demichelis Injury  Manchester City defender  Martin Demichelis , who joined from
Atletico Madrid on Sept. 1, is out for at least six weeks after
sustaining knee ligament damage during training this week, the
 Daily Express reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  