-- Bank of America Settles Merrill Sex Discrimination Case
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-09-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/bank-of-america-settles-merrill-sex-discrimination-case.html
Bank of America Corp.  will pay $39
million to settle a discrimination lawsuit brought on behalf of
women employees at its Merrill Lynch unit, according to court
filings.  Lawyers representing female financial advisers and licensed
trainees filed a request for approval of the settlement
yesterday in federal court in  Brooklyn ,  New York . The advisers
alleged in the lawsuit that Merrill discriminated against women
in those positions in compensation and business opportunities.  “This settlement helps ensure that Merrill Lynch is a
place where women can thrive and be successful,” Cara E.
Greene, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said in a statement.
“Hopefully others will follow Merrill Lynch’s example.”  The accord, which is subject to approval by a federal
judge, covers about 4,800 women who worked at the firm during
the period of Aug. 2, 2007 to Sept. 15, 2013, according to
documents filed with the plaintiffs’ motion.  Along with a cash fund, the settlement would require
changes at the firm to be overseen by an independent monitor,
according to the plaintiffs’ attorneys.  The lawsuit stemmed from investigations starting as early
as 2006, according to the lawyers.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America announced its purchase of Merrill Lynch in
2008.  “We are pleased to resolve this matter,” Bank of America
spokesman  William Halldin  said in an e-mailed statement. “The
resolution includes a number of additional and enhanced
initiatives that will enrich our existing diversity, inclusion
and development programs, providing even more opportunities for
women to succeed as financial advisers.”  In a separate case, a federal judge in  Chicago  is
considering whether to approve a $160 million settlement of
claims that Merrill Lynch wasn’t giving black employees the same
business opportunities as the firm’s white financial advisers.  The case is Calibuso v.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , 2:10-cv-01413, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in Brooklyn, New York at  csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  