-- Batista’s $1 Billion Put Propels OGX to Record Gain: Rio Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-09-06T21:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/batista-s-ogx-exercises-1-billion-put-shares-surge.html
Eike Batista ’s  OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  rose the most on the Ibovespa on prospects the
former billionaire will inject cash needed to keep his oil
explorer operating through a $1 billion put option.  OGX jumped 27 percent to 52 centavos at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo, extending a weekly gain to a record 73
percent and reducing a year-to-date loss to 88 percent. The
stock soared as much as 49 percent earlier, the biggest intraday
gain since a 2008 initial public offering.  Batista agreed to the put option last year to guarantee the
company would have enough cash to expand exploration in  Brazil .
Since then, production collapsed at OGX’s first project and
Deutsche Bank AG said Aug. 27 that the company would run out of
cash by the end of this quarter if it doesn’t receive an
injection. The plunge in OGX’s shares pushed Batista off the
Bloomberg Billionaire Index in July.  “The expectation was that this wouldn’t happen,” Felipe Rocha, an analyst at Omar Camargo Investimentos, said by phone
from Curitiba, Brazil. “It hit the market as a surprise.”  OGX is asking for $100 million upfront as it exercises the
 put option  and may request additional disbursals, the Rio de
Janeiro-based company said in a filing today. Under terms of the
option, Batista would pay 6.3 reais per share, compared with
yesterday’s 41-centavo close.  The entrepreneur will need to sell additional assets to
fulfill the entire $1 billion pledge, Rocha said. Batista has
been selling pieces of his natural resources and logistics
empire to help pay debts and cover investments. He sold 7
percent of OGX shares from Aug. 28 through Sept. 3 while
maintaining control of the company and is seeking buyers for  MMX
Mineracao & Metalicos SA (MMXM3) , his mining unit.  “The company exercised the option, but does Batista have
the money?” said  Michael Wang , an analyst at IHS Herold in
Norwalk,  Connecticut . “What if the guy doesn’t have $1 billion?
That’s a problem.”  Batista’s holding company, EBX Group, didn’t respond to an
e-mail seeking comment about whether he will pay the put option.
OGX declined to comment on Batista’s willingness to pay in an e-mailed reply to questions.  ‘Painful Deal’  “It’s painful,” said Eric Conrads, who manages about $750
million of Latin American stocks at ING Investment Management in
 New York . “He’s selling at 50 centavos and has to buy at 6.3
reais. Maybe I’m bad at mathematics but it doesn’t seem like a
good deal to me.”  The decision to exercise the option comes amid a dispute
with Malaysian producer Petroliam Nasional Bhd. Petronas Chief
Executive Officer Shamsul Azhar Abbas said Aug. 26 that an
agreement to buy a 40 percent stake in OGX’s Tubarao Martelo
field hinges on a debt restructuring. OGX plans to start
production at Martelo before the end of the year and it has
already drilled six wells at the offshore deposit.  OGX said Aug. 28 that Petronas has no right to delay the
deal, which still needs to be approved by regulators. Under the
agreement, OGX will get $250 million when it’s signed and the
rest in stages contingent on production targets.  “This injection, if it really happens, would only allow
OGX to survive for some time while it struggles to renegotiate
debt and tries to reach an agreement with Petronas,” Roberto
Altenhofen, an analyst at equity research firm Empiricus, said
by phone from  Sao Paulo . “Nobody questions the fact that the
company doesn’t have enough money to honor its short-term
commitments.”  Additional Funds  OGX said it will seek additional funds from the $1 billion
put when it needs the cash.  “Management of the company, in a unanimous decision,
exercised the option against the controlling shareholder,” OGX
said in today’s statement. “With immediate disbursal of $100
million and the remaining in tranches depending on the cash
needs of the company.”  The put option doesn’t resolve OGX’s need to restructure
its dollar debts, a process that could reduce the value of the
company’s shares to as little as zero, Credit Suisse AG analysts
Vinicius Canheu and Andre Sobreira said in a note to clients.  “Fundamentally, a $3.6 billion debt is higher than OGX’s
asset value, which in theory leaves zero value left for the
equity,” the analysts said. “The outlook remains grim.”  OGX shareholders would be left with nothing if bondholders
force OGX to file for bankruptcy and sell the company’s assets,
Canheu and Sobreira said. OGX has $1.9 billion in assets,
including $1.1 billion in Tubarao Martelo, they said, adding
that a sale by bondholders under a liquidation could involve a
deep discount to fair value.  Share Value  Canheu and Sobreira estimate that if bondholders convert
the securities into shares, it would reduce the value of
existing shares to 15 to 20 centavos each.  OGX bondholders hired Rothschild to advise on a debt
restructuring, a person with direct knowledge of the agreement
said last month, asking not to be identified because the
selection process is private. OGX hired Blackstone Group LP
“for the ongoing evaluation of its  capital structure ,”
according to an Aug. 14 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  