-- Best Small Cap Boosts Profit on Copper Rebound: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-09-06T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/best-small-cap-boosts-profit-on-copper-rebound-corporate-brazil.html
Paranapanema SA (PMAM3) , the refined copper
producer that is  Brazil ’s best-performing small cap stock,
anticipates boosting profit by expanding capacity to meet demand
for air conditioners and solar power equipment.  Paranapanema is 65 percent through a 1.22 billion reais
($523 million) investment plan to upgrade and build plants.
After two years of losses, the company expects margins and
revenue to continue improving to levels compatible with bigger
rivals such as  Aurubis AG (NDA) , said acting Chief Executive Officer
Edson Monteiro and Chief Financial Officer Mario Lorencatto.  Demand for refined copper in Brazil, the world’s seventh-largest consumer of the metal, will rise 6.2 percent in 2014,
twice this year’s estimated growth rate, according to a company
presentation. Paranapanema is renovating its copper refining
plant, opening a tube factory and studying the best location for
a flat-rolled facility as it gains competitiveness in the
domestic market after a depreciation of the real.  “As the new copper product factories come online, this is
what has greater value that will provide a bigger increase in
profitability,” Lorencatto said during an interview at
Bloomberg’s  Sao Paulo  office on Sept. 4. “You can see the curve
of the Ebitda margin, of revenue, clearly change levels.”  Copper for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange fell 0.2 percent to $7,108 a metric ton yesterday,
augmenting this year’s decline to 10 percent. Ebitda refers to
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
a measures of a company’s profitability.  Rising Production  Paranapanema  rose  117 percent in the past 12 months, the
best rally among 73 stocks in the Brazilian Ibovespa Small Cap
index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A small cap
describes stocks with relatively lower market value. The
company, Brazil’s biggest producer of refined copper, targets an
output gain of 5.7 percent next year to 280,000 tons. Chile’s
Codelco is the world’s largest producer with 1.57 million tons
last year, followed by Hamburg-based Aurubis, with 1.16 million
tons, according to London-based metals researcher and consulting
company CRU.  Shares of Paranapanema  gained  0.2 percent yesterday to 4.80
reais in Sao Paulo, trimming the company’s decline in 2013 to
3.2 percent compared with Aurubis’s 16 percent  drop  in Frankfurt
trading. Four analysts  tracked  by Bloomberg rate Paranapanema as
buy, one recommends selling and one says hold.  Nascent Turnaround  Paranapanema, which sold 64 percent of its products in
Brazil in the first half, is seeking to boost revenue in non-traditional markets such as wind and solar energy or air
conditioning, Monteiro said. The company is developing products
that may displace other metals such as aluminum or stainless
steel in items from hospital equipment and handrails, said
Monteiro, who took over as CEO in February. Paranapanema’s
management is in Santo Andre, in the greater Sao Paulo region.  “We are looking for technologies that allow copper to
enter into this market with an adequate competitiveness,” he
said. “Builders will have more than one option.”  While a turnaround has been occurring, the company still
has scope to improve its quarterly results, according to Daniel Utsch, an equity analyst at Banco Fator SA in Sao Paulo.  Pedro Galdi , head strategist at Sao Paulo-based brokerage
SLW Corretora, who has a hold recommendation, said it’s too
early to incorporate turnaround gains to the share price.  “Since it’s still in a transition phase, it’s hard to put
value on big production increases,” he said in a telephone
interview. “The company still needs some time to improve.”  Vale’s Bid  Paranapanema shareholders rejected a takeover bid from Vale
SA, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, in September 2010 as
a minimum acceptance level of 50 percent plus one share wasn’t
reached. Vale had increased the offer four times to 6.75 reais
per Paranapanema share, which valued the company at 2.15 billion
reais. The stock fell to the lowest in almost four years in June
2012, reducing its  market value  to as little as 645 million
reais, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company is
valued at 1.53 billion reais as of yesterday’s close.  Paranapanema’s leading role in Brazil and its strategy may
again position the company as a takeover target, CFO Lorencatto
said during the interview.  “No one is flirting with us, but I imagine if you look at
the sector for the transformation of copper, which is the
company with the scale and efficiency that stands out?” he
said. “If I want to participate in the sector, this company is
attractive.”  Previ, Petros  Paranapanema’s top three  shareholders  are linked to the
Brazilian government, including Caixa de Previdencia dos
Funcionarios do Banco do Brasil, or Previ,  Latin America ’s
largest pension fund. Together with government-controlled Caixa
Economica Federal and Petros, the pension fund of state-run
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, they own a combined 53.3 percent stake.  Previ declined to comment on its Paranapanema stake in an
e-mailed statement, as did a spokeswoman for Petros. Caixa’s
press office didn’t reply to an e-mail yesterday seeking
comment.  Paranapanema is forecast to post net income excluding some
items of 178 million reais next year, after recording a third
consecutive annual loss of 206 million reais in 2013, according
to a July 8 estimate by Fator’s Utsch. The company boosted
second-quarter sales by 38 percent, seven times more than the
5.2 percent average increase of 16 peer companies, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Paranapanema posted a negative ebitda margin of 3.3 percent
last year, compared with the 5.4 percent  margin  of Aurubis, the
data show.  The company is cutting costs and undergoing a “significant
recovery” in its profitability, Lorencatto said, declining to
provide specific targets. “This should give us a boost up
ahead. We still have a lot to do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  