-- Billionaire’s Airport Bonds Sunk by Argentina Hangar Grab
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2013-09-06T17:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/billionaire-s-airport-bonds-sunk-by-state-s-terminal-grab.html
Borrowing costs at billionaire
Eduardo Eurnekian’s airport in Buenos Aires are surging by the
most in eight months versus Argentine corporate issuers as the
nation’s move to seize one of its hangars deepens concern the
government wants to extend its control over the industry.  Aeropuertos  Argentina  2000 SA’s bonds due 2020 have tumbled
2.75 cents to 93.19 cents on the dollar since Aug. 21, when
regulators told  Latam Airlines Group SA (LFL)  it had 10 days to
abandon a hangar at the Aeroparque Jorge Newbery airport. The
selloff caused yields to surge 0.93 percentage point to 12.99
percent, almost twice the increase for  Argentine corporate
borrowers , according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Yields in emerging
markets rose an average 0.16 percentage point in the same span.  While the order to abandon the hangar has been stayed in
courts, government pressure on Latam adds to concern President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  wants to remove the Santiago-based carrier from Argentina’s second-biggest airport to bolster
state-run Aerolineas Argentinas SA, BCP Securities LLC said.
Since 2007, Fernandez has nationalized pensions, railways and an
airline, as well as oil producer YPF SA.  “There had been speculation the government, either
directly or through Aerolineas Argentinas, wants to take over
Jorge Newbery and only allow Aerolineas to operate through that
airport,”  Jim Harper , head of research at BCP, said in a
telephone interview from Greenwich,  Connecticut . “Whenever the
government strong-arms a privately owned company, it sends
shivers down investors’ spines.”  Dollar Revenue  BCP maintains an outperform recommendation on Aeropuertos
Argentina 2000, known as AA2000, because payments are secured
with dollar revenue and it would be neutral to the company’s
results if Lan ceased operations at Aeroparque, Harper said.  The 10.75 percent bonds have returned 16.9 percent this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company covers annual debt service of about $42 million
for a total outstanding of $276 million of the 2020 notes with
approximately $127 million in operating fees and duty-free
receivables it deposits in an offshore trust each year,
according to a June 28 BCP report.  Airport Concessions  “AA2000 has a contract to operate 33 airports in
Argentina, including Aeroparque,” Matias Patanian, chief
executive officer, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“Therefore, no individual airport concession can be revoked.”  Even if Lan left Aeroparque, AA2000 would make up for that
revenue with other airlines, Patanian said. The company is
constructing a new wing of the airport for increased flight
activity and retail space, he said.  Eurnekian’s Corporacion America SA and Corporacion America
Sudamericana SA own 75.7 percent of AA2000, according to the
company’s  website . In late 2011, the Argentine government
exercised a  call option  from March 2008, converting $36.8
million in bonds into a 15 percent stake in AA2000, according to
 Standard & Poor’s .  AA2000 operates 33 of the country’s 54 airports. Aeroparque
was responsible for 12 percent of total revenue in 2012, the
second-biggest source of revenue after Argentina’s main
international airport Ezeiza.  ‘Sloppy’ Eviction  Eurnekian told reporters at an Aug. 22 event the government
had been “sloppy” with the eviction notice because it should
have given Lan more time and negotiated “rationally.”  Latam’s vice president of strategic planning Roberto Alvo
said in a conference call Aug. 21 the measure is in line with
increasing level of actions against its Argentine unit by the
government. Mariano Recalde, head of Aerolineas Argentinas, said
the order is part of a “fairer distribution system” that gives
priority to the national airline.  A week later, Argentine Deputy Economy Minister Axel Kicillof said in a press conference the country wants the
airline to stay and that he didn’t understand the outrage over a
“little hangar.” The eviction notice is on hold pending Lan’s
appeal.  Bonds fell on concern the measure could lead to greater
government control of the industry, which often results in loss
of profitability, even if it’s not an immediate threat to bond
payments, according to  Richard Segal , head of international
credit strategy at Jefferies Group LLC. in  London .  “The Argentine government has a reputation of taking
measures that in general fixed-income investors dislike, with
the implication that when there’s a headline like this they say,
‘this must be bad for us’ and sell,” Segal said in a telephone
interview from London.  ‘Public Good’  Fernandez nationalized Aerolineas Argentinas in 2008 from
 Spain ’s Grupo Marsans after congress declared the airline a
“public good subject to expropriation.” Last year Fernandez
seized YPF, the country’s biggest energy company, from Madrid-based  Repsol SA. (REP)  In 2009 she nationalized the country’s $24
billion pension fund industry.  Her husband and predecessor,  Nestor Kirchner , nationalized
the country’s largest water utility, Aguas Argentinas SA, in
2006, and the national postal service in 2003, citing a failure
to fulfill investment plans.  The government’s economic policies contribute to investors
demanding 10.55 percentage points of  additional yield  over  U.S.
Treasuries  to own Argentine debt, the highest in  emerging
markets . The gap narrowed 32 basis points at 2:26 p.m. in Buenos
Aires. The peso was little changed at 5.7022 per dollar.  Rating Affirmed  AA2000 sales increased 20 percent to 2.3 billion pesos
($403,300) in 2012 from a year earlier, while net income fell 49
percent to 989.6 million, according to company filings to
regulators.  Standard & Poor’s in June affirmed its B- rating on the
company, six levels below investment grade and the same as the
Argentine government, stating the company should be able to
maintain  credit quality  assuming tariff adjustments of 15
percent approved by the regulator in November 2012.  Bonds may continue to underperform as the government’s
pressure outweighs financial results, Segal said.  “There’s always a panic and sell rather than look at the
numbers in detail,” he said. “There’s the perception this
government is capable of doing anything and picking a fight with
anyone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in  Buenos Aires  at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  