-- Billionaire James Packer and Wife Erica Baxter Separate
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-09-06T11:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/billionaire-james-packer-and-wife-erica-baxter-separate.html
Australian gaming billionaire  James Packer  and wife Erica Baxter have separated.  Packer, 45, is the nation’s second-richest individual with
a net worth of $5.9 billion, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index. He is the largest shareholder of  Crown Ltd. (CWN) ,
the country’s biggest casino operator. Baxter, 36, is a former
model and singer. The couple were married six years ago and have
three children. It is Packer’s second marriage.  “We remain deeply close friends and incredibly proud
parents and our children are our priority going forward,”
Packer and Baxter said in a joint statement.  Melbourne-based Crown operates two gaming resorts in
Australia, one in London and two in  Macau  through  Melco Crown
Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , a joint venture with Lawrence Ho, son of
Hong Kong gambling pioneer  Stanley Ho . Packer wants to build a
$1.2 billion six-star casino-resort complex along Sydney Harbour
that would cater to VIP players from China.  Packer was born into a media dynasty started by his
grandfather, Sir Frank Packer, and expanded father Kerry Packer.
The Packers built their wealth through Publishing & Broadcasting
Ltd., owner of Australia’s biggest magazine publisher.  Although a legendary gambler, Kerry opposed investing in
casinos. In 1999, James convinced his father to buy Crown
Casino, Australia’s largest, and in 2004, teamed up with Stanley
Ho to expand in Macau. Kerry Packer died the following year.  James Packer inherited the family business at 38. In three
years, he sold most of his family’s broadcasting and publishing
stakes, as well as its cattle ranches, for more than $5 billion.
He increased the  family’s stake  in Crown, and became the
company’s controlling shareholder in December 2012.  His first marriage in 1999 was to model Jodhi Meares. They
divorced in 2002.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Chu at 
 pachu@bloomberg.net  