-- Brazil’s Rousseff Says U.S. Trip Pending After Meeting Obama
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-09-06T13:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/brazil-s-rousseff-says-u-s-trip-pending-after-meeting-obama.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
said her state visit to the U.S. next month is still pending
after she discussed spying allegations with U.S. President
 Barack Obama .  Rousseff’s visit will hinge on political conditions, she
told reporters today in Saint Petersburg, after her meeting with
Obama. The U.S. president took personal responsibility for
investigating the spying charges and offered to implement
measures that Brazil considers acceptable, Rousseff said.  Earlier this month, American journalist Glenn Greenwald
presented accusations that the U.S. National Security Agency
intercepted phone calls and e-mails from Rousseff and a group of
top aides. Brazilian officials denounced the case as a violation
of their country’s sovereignty. The government later canceled a
trip to prepare for Rousseff’s visit to the U.S. in protest over
the allegations. Greenwald today said  more details  about spying
on  Brazil  will be revealed Sept. 8, according to Brasilia-based
newspaper Correio Braziliense.  “My country and I are outraged about the accusations of
spying practiced against the government, embassies, companies
and Brazilian citizens,” Rousseff said today. “If political
conditions aren’t right, then the trip won’t happen. First, they
are going to inform me of the size of the leak.”  Rousseff said U.S. National Security Adviser  Susan Rice 
plans to contact her this Wednesday. Brazil intends to raise the
issue of Internet governance at the United Nations and other
international organizations, Rousseff added.  Greenwald has said the information revealed this month was
part of the first batch of documents he received from fugitive
security analyst Edward Snowden when they met in Hong Kong in
May.  That was before Snowden, a former  Booz Allen Hamilton
Holding Corp. (BAH)  employee, was granted a one-year asylum in Russia
on President  Vladimir Putin ’s condition that he stop disclosing
documents that harm U.S. interests.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 