-- Brent Crude Shipments Unchanged at Five Cargoes in October
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u   a n d   L a u r a   H u r s t
-- 2013-09-06T11:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/brent-crude-shipments-unchanged-at-five-cargoes-in-october-1-.html
Exports of North Sea Brent crude for
October are planned at five cargoes of 600,000 barrels each,
unchanged from this month, according to a loading program
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Exports for next month will total 3 million barrels, or
96,774 barrels a day, compared with 100,000 barrels a day for
September, the plans showed. Shipments rose to seven
consignments in August.  Brent output will be cut this month because of planned
maintenance at the Eider and North Cormorant fields, taking
about 11,000 barrels a day of crude that feeds into the blend
offline. The works started in late August and are due to end in
early October, an official at operator  Abu Dhabi National Energy
Co. (TAQA) , known as Taqa, said in an e-mailed response Sept. 2, asking
not to be identified citing company policy.  Maintenance at the Fairfield Energy Ltd.-operated Dunlin
Alpha platform, which was originally scheduled to begin in late
August, was deferred by 5 weeks until Sept. 29, John Wiseman,
general manager of the area said on Sept. 2 in an e-mailed
response to questions. Approximately 12,000 barrels a day of
crude, which feeds into the Brent stream, will be halted.  Brent is one of four North Sea grades that make up the
Dated Brent benchmark, which is used to price crude from the
 Middle East ,  Africa  and  Russia . The other blends are Forties,
Oseberg and Ekofisk.  Loading programs are monthly schedules of crude shipments
compiled by field operators to allow buyers and sellers to plan
their supply and trading activities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Hurst in London at 
 lhurst3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  