-- Canadian Dollar Rises as Economy Adds More Jobs Than Forecast
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-09-06T21:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/canadian-dollar-rises-as-economy-adds-more-jobs-than-forecast.html
The Canadian dollar strengthened to
the highest level in more than two weeks as the nation added
jobs at triple the pace forecast last month, indicating the
recovery remains resilient as U.S. employment growth falters.  The currency rose against the majority of its most-traded
peers as  Statistics Canada  said the economy added 59,200
positions in August, compared to the 20,000 forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 22 economists. The  unemployment rate  fell to
7.1 percent from 7.2 percent. The U.S., the nation’s biggest
trading partner, added 169,000 jobs in August, compared to the
180,000 forecast in a separate Bloomberg survey.  “For a while it’s been quite clear the Canadian labor
market has recovered to its pre-recessionary position and this
data just suggests, that while the Canadian economy has had its
issues this year, it still is in better shape than the U.S.,”
said Jane Foley, senior currency strategist at Rabobank
International, by phone from  London . “It’s a combination of
disappointing U.S. data and a better  Canada  number.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 1 percent to C$1.0405
per  U.S. dollar  at 5:00 p.m. in Toronto. The currency reached
C$1.0382, the strongest level since Aug. 20. One loonie buys
96.11 U.S. cents.  Canada’s 10-year benchmark government bond rose for the
first time in six days, with yields falling three basis points
or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.77 percent. The 1.5 percent
security maturing in June 2023 added 27 cents to C$89.25.  Taper Speculation  The  U.S. dollar  fell against all but one of its most traded
peers as slower-than-forecast job growth in that country caused
investors to curb bets the  Federal Reserve  will reduce monetary
stimulus, which is thought to depress the greenback, at its
Sept. 17-18 meeting.  Part-time employment in Canada rose by 41,800 in August,
with full-time jobs rising by 17,400, Statistics Canada said.
Service industry employment increased by 40,600 and goods-producing companies hired 18,600.  “You could argue there was a fair degree of part-time  job
creation , but nevertheless jobs being created, and the fact the
participation rate was up and unemployment rate was down
obviously contrasts fairly positively with what we saw south of
the border,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, by phone from London. “That
has provided the Canadian dollar with some impetus.”  Poloz Forecast  Futures traders increased bets that the Canadian dollar
will decline against the U.S. dollar to the most since June 14,
figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show. The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge
funds  and other large speculators on a decline in the Canadian
dollar compared with those on a gain, known as net shorts, was
34,639 on Sept. 3, compared with net shorts of 24,959 a week
earlier.  Consumer spending  underpinned by a housing boom has powered
the world’s 11th largest economy since the 2008 global financial
crisis.  Bank of Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz says the expansion
needs to shift to business spending from indebted consumers, a
process that policy makers said this week is taking longer than
they predicted.  The Bank of Canada forecasts third quarter growth at 3.8
percent in its July monetary policy report. Gross domestic
product grew 1.7 percent in the second quarter.  Options traders became the least bearish on the Canadian
dollar in four weeks. The three-month so-called 25 delta risk
reversal rate, which measures the premium charged for the right
to buy the U.S. dollar against its Canadian counterpart versus
contracts to sell, fell to 1.38 percent, the lowest point since
Aug. 9.  Consumer Prices  The Bank of Canada kept its  benchmark rate  on overnight
loans between commercial banks at 1 percent for the 24th
consecutive meeting on Sept. 4 and said slack in the economy
will start to disappear in 2014.  Business spending and exports have slowed the expansion of
the world’s 11th largest economy this year even with recent
signs of stronger growth in the U.S. and  Europe . Consumer
spending has continued to lead growth after warnings from Poloz
and Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  about record debts taken on at
low  interest rates .  Consumer prices  advanced 1.3 percent in July from a year
earlier, the 15th straight month the rate was slower than the
bank’s 2 percent target. Output growth slowed to a 1.7 percent
annualized pace in the second quarter, including a monthly
decline of 0.5 percent in June that was the biggest since the
2009 recession.  The Canadian dollar rose 0.7 percent in the last week
against nine developed nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The U.S. dollar is down
0.7 percent and  New Zealand ’s currency is the biggest gainer
with a 3.2 percent rise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in  New York  at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  