-- Carbon Has Biggest Weekly Gain Since May as EU Cuts Handout
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-09-06T16:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/carbon-rises-to-five-month-high-as-eu-crimps-free-permit-handout.html
European Union carbon permits posted
their biggest weekly gain in four months as the bloc’s regulator
 scaled back  the handout of free allowances, reducing the risk of
a sell-off by polluters.  December allowances climbed 17 percent this week, the
biggest increase for the period since May 3, on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in  London . The European Commission yesterday
lowered its allocation of free allowances to industry by 12
percent through 2020, and delayed selling an additional 66
million metric tons of permits until next year.  The reduction means emitters from  ArcelorMittal (MT)  to Total SA
may preserve their existing holdings or will need to buy more
allowances in the market to make up any difference. The
shortfall is about 4.3 billion euros, based on an average price
of 5.71 euros a ton for benchmark December futures through 2020.  “Traders probably consider industrial sales will be muted
in the coming months due to the relatively aggressive
correction,” Itamar Orlandi, an analyst in London for Bloomberg
New Energy Finance, said today by e-mail. “The bullish price
reaction indicates that traders were relieved to see additional
auctions delayed to 2014.”  Carbon traded as high as 5.43 euros ($7.15) a ton on ICE,
the highest since Feb. 18, before paring gains. Permits closed 7
percent higher at 5.33 euros a ton.  Distribution Delay  The EU’s eight-year-old emissions-trading system allocates
permits for free or auctions them to about 12,000 factories and
utilities, which must surrender enough to match their discharges
of carbon dioxide or pay fines. Those that emit less than their
quota can sell unused allowances.  This year’s distribution was delayed as countries adjusted
to the start of the EU trading system’s third phase, which began
in January and runs until 2020. As of this year, utilities in
western  Europe  no longer get free permits, while east European
generators will have to buy 30 percent of their allowances at
auctions, rising to 100 percent by 2020.  The distribution of permits was scaled back after countries
requested more than the amount available. The cutback is 5.7
percent this year and increases to 18 percent for 2020,
according to the commission.  German Power  Emissions also rose as power prices advanced. German
 electricity  for 2014 has jumped 5.8 percent since Aug. 30, the
biggest weekly gain since March 2011, broker data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Power prices can move in line with carbon, which
affects generation costs.  “The sharp rise in German 2014 power in the past three
days triggered buying of carbon,” Milan Hudak, an analyst at
Virtuse Energy sro in  Prague , said today by e-mail. “Rising
permit prices triggered buy orders from traders who had bet on
the contract falling further.”  The EU decision to cut free permits will add several
hundred million euros to energy costs in Europe and sheds “a
completely new light” on a proposal by the commission to
temporarily alleviate a glut, according to the  European
Confederation of Paper Industries .  “It is information that should have been on the table in
the backloading debate, where proponents of strong measures
pictured the industry as not having to buy any credits in the
coming period,” said Marco Mensink, the deputy director general
for the paper lobby group.  The draft measure to postpone the sale of some permits, a
process known as backloading, was approved by the European
Parliament in July. The proposal will be considered by  member
states  after Sept. 22 elections in  Germany , EU Climate
Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said Aug. 27.  The market is reacting positively to the EU’s free permit
reduction “not because it makes a real difference to the
oversupply situation, but because it’s a sign the EU may mean
business,” Mark Meyrick, the head of carbon trading at Eneco
Energy Trade BV in Rotterdam, said today by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  