-- China Stocks Rise as Shanghai Trade Zone Boosts Banks
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-09-06T10:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/china-stock-index-futures-fall-before-trade-inflation-data.html
(Corrects to show State Council approval was on July 3 in
eighth paragraph, AFP report was yesterday in third paragraph.)  China’s stocks  rose, capping a
weekly gain for the benchmark index, as airlines, banks and
shipping companies rallied on speculation  Shanghai ’s Free-Trade
Zone will lure more business into the nation’s commercial hub.  Cosco Shipping Co. jumped 10 percent as the  Baltic Dry
Index  surged to its highest level since January 2012 and media
reported foreign investors may be allowed to take bigger stakes
in shipping joint ventures in the planned zone. Shanghai
International Port (Group) Co. soared 10 percent, extending a
two-week rally that has seen its shares double. Shanghai Pudong
Development Bank Co. led gains for financial companies, while
Shanghai-based  China  Eastern Airlines Co. climbed 5.2 percent.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.8 percent to 2,139.99
at the close, capping a gain of 2 percent for this week. The
government will allow for liberalization of more than a dozen
industries in the free-trade zone including banking and
shipping,  Agence France-Presse  reported yesterday, citing a
draft plan. China’s financial reforms may get a boost if the
 yuan  is permitted to be fully convertible in the trade area,
HSBC Holdings Plc said in a report.  “The reforms are getting more intense, leading to
expectations there could be even more news on the free-trade
zones during the November meeting” of Communist Party leaders,
said Zeng Xianzhao, an analyst at Everbright Securities Co. in
Chongqing. “After the recent good data, investors are positive
about upcoming economic figures.”  Economic Outlook  China’s customs office is scheduled to release August trade
data on Sept. 8. The Shanghai index has climbed 9.7 percent
since reaching this year’s low on June 27 as reports ranging
from industrial production to manufacturing and money supply
signaled the economy is stabilizing. An official manufacturing
gauge jumped to a 16-month high in August.  The CSI 300 Index advanced 0.7 percent to 2,357.78, while
the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  rose 0.1 percent. The
Bloomberg China-US Equity Index added 0.7 percent in  New York .  Overseas shipments are expected to have gained 5.5 percent
from a year ago, compared with a 5.1 percent advance in July,
according to the average estimate from 36 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The statistics bureau will release inflation data on
Sept. 9. Inflation probably slowed to 2.6 percent last month
from 2.7 percent in July, while producer-price declines slowed,
another survey showed.  Shanghai’s free-trade zone was approved by the State
Council on July 3, with the Ministry of Commerce reiterating the
approval on Aug. 22. It may open as early as the end of this
month, according to the Shanghai Securities News, and is part of
Premier  Li Keqiang ’s drive to shift the economy toward services
and sustain long-term growth.  Shippers Rally  Cosco Shipping, a listed unit of China’s biggest shipping
group, jumped 0.33 yuan to 3.62 yuan. Tianjin Marine Shipping
Co. climbed 3.2 percent to 5.47 yuan. The Baltic Dry Index
jumped 5 percent to its highest level since Jan. 9, 2012.  Limits on foreign investment proportions in joint-venture
international shipping companies will be relaxed in the Shanghai
trade zone, according to Agence France Presse, citing a draft
plan. Non-Chinese flag ships owned or controlled by Chinese
companies will be allowed to carry out domestic container
operations, the draft report said.  The draft plan lists 19 business sectors to be liberalized
including banking services, health insurance, financial leasing,
game devices, value-added telecommunications, cultural relic
auctions, legal services, medical services and ocean cargo
shipping, AFP said.  Yuan Convertibility  Shanghai International Port surged to 6.02 yuan, adding to
a 137 percent gain since the State Council approved the free-trade zone plan on Aug. 22. Shanghai International Airport Co.
gained 4.9 percent to 15.92 yuan. Shanghai-based China Eastern
Airlines, the nation’s second biggest domestic carrier, rose 5.2
percent to 2.83 yuan.  Pudong Development Bank jumped 4.8 percent to 9.57 yuan.
Shanghai-based Bank of Communications Co. increased 3 percent to
4.10 yuan.  China will allow the convertibility of the yuan on the
capital account on a trial basis, AFP reported. Companies
registered in the free trade zone can open special accounts to
freely exchange yuan while being required to close their onshore
Chinese accounts, it said.  If the yuan is fully convertible and  interest rates  are
liberalized in the proposed Shanghai free trade zone, it could
“push China’s financial reforms forward,” HSBC said in the
report.  Developers Fall  Poly Real Estate Group Co. led declines for developers
after the Economic Information Daily reported the housing
ministry has called a meeting with officials from seven cities
including Nanjing to discuss rapid gains in property prices.  Poly Real Estate, the second-biggest developer, dropped 2.1
percent to 10.36 yuan. China Vanke Co., the largest, slipped 1.1
percent to 9.55 yuan. The Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural
Development urged local governments to take measures to meet
annual control targets for housing prices, according to the
Economic Information Daily.  The Shanghai index is  valued  at 8.6 times its projected 12-month earnings, the highest since June 18, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Trading volumes were 29 percent higher
than the 30-day average for this time of day, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  