-- China Shipping Stock Jumps on Free-Trade Zone Rule Report
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-09-06T10:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/china-shipping-stock-jumps-on-free-trade-zone-rule-report.html
(Corrects to show Commerce Ministry on Aug. 22 reiterated
an earlier State Council approval for the free-trade zone, date
of AFP report in fourth paragraph. )  China Shipping Container Lines Co. (601866) 
surged the most in six years on higher freight rates and after
media reports said foreigners may be allowed to take bigger
stakes in shipping ventures in the  Shanghai  Free-Trade Zone.  The Shanghai-based container unit of the nation’s No.2
shipping group jumped by the daily limit of 10 percent at the
close of trading in Shanghai. Cosco Shipping Co., a unit of
China’s biggest shipping group, also climbed by 10 percent. The
benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 0.8 percent.  “Investors are betting shipping firms will benefit from
the free-trade zone,” said Lawrence Li, an analyst with UOB
Kay-Hian Holdings Ltd. “Freight rates also improved recently on
China’s stabilizing economic growth and rising demand for goods
from Europe and the U.S. before the traditional Christmas peak
season.”  China may allow wholly foreign owned international ship
management companies in Shanghai’s trade zone,  Agence France-Presse  reported yesterday, citing a draft plan. Limits on
foreign investment proportions in joint-venture international
shipping companies will be relaxed in the trade zone, while non-Chinese flag ships owned or controlled by Chinese companies will
be allowed to carry out domestic container operations, AFP
reported.  The Ministry of Commerce on Aug. 22 reiterated an approval
from the State Council for Shanghai to set up a free-trade zone,
spurring rallies for port operators. Shanghai International Port
(Group) Co. has surged  136 percent  since then.  The Baltic Dry Index (BDIY) , the benchmark freight rate for
hauling commodities, jumped 5.3 percent to 1,279, the highest
since January 2012.  “We view the worst as behind us, but full recovery will
take time,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts led by Ronald Keung said in a note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  