-- China Plans for Shanghai Zone Stoke Stocks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-06T12:18:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/china-plans-for-shanghai-zone-stoke-stocks.html
China’s plans to elevate  Shanghai ’s
role through looser controls on capital flows and expanded
foreign investment drove share gains in companies tied to the
city, Hong Kong’s main rival as the nation’s financial center.  Shanghai International Port (Group) Co. (600018)  rose by the 10
percent daily limit today and has more than doubled over the
past two weeks. The gains reflect optimism that a Shanghai free-trade zone will pull in greater investment. Agence France-Presse
yesterday reported that a draft plan for the area includes
expanded opportunities for foreign companies in industries from
banking to health insurance.  The initiative is part of China’s goal of making Shanghai a
world financial center by 2020. Freeing up foreign-exchange
controls in the zone would mark a deepening in policy makers’
efforts to promote international use of the  yuan , which a report
yesterday showed became the world’s ninth most-actively traded
currency this year.  “Financial sector innovation is expected to accelerate
within the Shanghai Free Trade Zone,” HSBC Holdings Plc China
economists Qu Hongbin and Ma Xiaoping wrote in a note today. If
the yuan is made fully convertible and interest rates are
liberalized in Shanghai, “the bold move could push China’s
financial reforms forward,” they wrote.  China Shipping Container Lines Co. (601866)  and  Cosco Shipping Co. (600428) 
also rose by the daily limit of 10 percent, while the benchmark
Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.8 percent. China may allow
wholly foreign owned international ship management companies in
Shanghai’s trade zone, AFP reported.  Hub Status  The plans for Shanghai have raised concerns in Hong Kong
that the special administrative region’s status as a hub for
Chinese companies to raise capital will be eroded. China’s State
Council, or cabinet, headed by Premier Li Keqiang, said July 3
it approved a free-trade zone for Shanghai, and the Ministry of
Commerce reiterated the approval in an Aug. 22 statement.  “Competition is not just about how good you are or have
been, but more about whether you are better than your
competitors,” Norman Chan, chief executive of the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority, said today at a forum in Hong Kong. “So
it’s no good for Hong Kong to sit on the laurels and just hope
or pray that other financial centers do not or cannot catch
up.”  November Meeting  Li and his cabinet are considering the Shanghai policies
ahead of a Communist Party meeting in November due to expand on
the leadership’s plans for reducing the government’s role in the
economy and financial system. Li has called for the state to
increase the role of the private sector to sustain growth.  “The Shanghai free-trade zone will be used as a test field
for further opening-up of  China ’s economy and the government
will reduce its administrative role in managing the economy
during the trial,” said Wang Weijun, a strategist at Zheshang
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Shanghai will definitely be the
winner as its proportion of foreign trade in China and even the
world will see a significant increase going forward.”  Concerns that the proposed Shanghai free trade zone will
have a negative impact on Hong Kong investment and trade are
unnecessary, Shen Danyang, a spokesman for the Ministry of
Commerce, said last month.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  