-- Apple Supplier Fire Spurs Biggest Chip Price Rise in 3 Years
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-09-06T09:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/chip-prices-surge-as-sk-hynix-fire-sparks-supply-crunch-woes.html
Prices for memory chips used in
smartphones and personal computers surged 19 percent, the most
in three years, as  SK Hynix Inc. (000660)  suspended operations in  China 
after a factory fire. Shares of the  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   supplier  fell.  The blaze occurred Sept. 4 during the installation of
equipment at a factory in Wuxi, China, manufacturing dynamic
random-access memory chips for SK Hynix, the world’s second-largest maker. The fire burned for about 90 minutes, the Icheon,
South Korea-based company said. One person suffered minor
injuries.  The price of benchmark DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM jumped 30 cents,
the biggest increase since September 2010, to $1.90 yesterday,
according to DRAMeXchange, Asia’s largest market for the
components. The surge underscores growing concerns that makers
of mobile devices and PCs will suffer rising component costs due
to potential supply shortages, since SK Hynix makes almost one-third of the world’s DRAM chips.  “It will take at least half a year before SK Hynix’s
damaged clean room is fully rebuilt,” market research firm
TrendForce said in a report yesterday. “Such an event is likely
to cause the price uptrend of PC DRAM and mobile DRAM to
continue throughout” the fourth quarter.  Chipmaker Shares  SK Hynix shares fell 3.7 percent to close at 27,100 won in
Seoul today, while the benchmark Kospi index rose 0.2 percent.
Competitor  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  closed at its highest in
almost seven years in  New York  trading yesterday.  SK Hynix, which makes half of its chips in Wuxi, held a 30
percent share of the global DRAM market in the second quarter,
following  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s 32.7 percent, TrendForce
said Aug. 8. Samsung rose 0.3 percent to 1,369,000 won today.  If the Wuxi factory’s production is halted for more than a
week, substantial shortages could lead to higher prices,
benefiting all memory-chip manufacturers, Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. said in a report today.  SK Hynix’s customers include Apple, Samsung, Lenovo Group
Ltd., Dell Inc. and Sony Corp., according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. Apple, Samsung, Lenovo and Sony all are releasing new
flagship smartphones this year as they compete in a market
estimated to be worth $280 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Apple will debut a new iPhone on Tuesday, a person
familiar with the matter has said.  Clean Rooms  “We are still investigating the extent of damage,” SK
Hynix said in an e-mailed statement Sept. 4. “Currently, there
is no material damage to the fab equipment in the clean room,
thus we expect to resume operations in a short time period so
that overall production and supply volume would not be
materially affected.”  Chips are made in a room that is thousands of times cleaner
than a hospital operating room, according to a definition on
Intel Corp.’s website.  Lenovo has an adequate supply of chips for the third
quarter, Mark Stanton, director of operations communications,
said in an e-mail today.  Normal production at SK Hynix is expected to resume in
about a month, Seo Won Seok, an analyst at Korea Investment &
Securities in  Seoul , said in a report yesterday.  “The operational shutdown will cause a global PC DRAM
supply shortage,” he said.  SK Hynix on July 25 posted profit that exceeded analysts’
estimates, buoyed by rising prices of semiconductors. Second-quarter net income, excluding minority interest, rose to 946.8
billion won ($865 million) from a loss of 53 billion won a year
earlier.  Lower-end smartphones will drive demand for DRAM chips in
the second half, SK Hynix said in an e-mailed statement in July,
and there is limited second-half supply growth for memory chips.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  