-- TCL Chairman Considers Smart-Technology Purchases to Spur Growth
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-09-06T16:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/tcl-chairman-considers-smart-technology-purchases-to-spur-growth.html
TCL Corp. (000100) ,  China ’s biggest flat-panel television maker, said it may seek acquisitions as it
expects earnings growth to accelerate in the second half of the
year, Chairman Li Dongsheng said.  TCL is considering buying Internet or so-called smart-technology companies to expand globally, he said in an interview
at the IFA  consumer electronics show  in Berlin today. These
won’t be large deals and any acquisition would need to add
“significant” synergies, he said.  “It’s possible to make some acquisitions if the companies
have some innovative technologies,” Li said. “It’s not about
the money. There are not many potential targets in the TV and
smartphone industries, so it’s more about finding the right
partner.”  TCL, which also makes camcorders and rice cookers, is doing
whatever it can to move upmarket, a familiar path taken in
previous decades by Japanese and South Korean electronics and
car companies. It’s seeking to expand sales and brand
credibility by convincing overseas consumers that its
smartphones are just as advanced and appealing as those offered
by market leaders.  In January, Li said the Huizhou, China-based TV-maker is
interested in semiconductors, chipset design and panel-related
components deals and has held talks with potential targets. He
declined to identify them.  U.S. Ambitions  Second-half earnings will exceed the first six months’ 627
million  yuan  ($102 million) as TCL expects to continue to expand
in markets such as the U.S., where it sees big growth
opportunities in the smartphone business, Li said. TCL expects
to sell 10 million such devices annually in the U.S. within two
or three years, he said.  “Our presence in the U.S. is still small, and we hope we
can double our presence by the end of the year,” he said.
“Within two or three years, I hope that the U.S. is equivalent
to our European market.”  TCL is pushing to expand its US. name-recognition, buying
the rights to rename Grauman’s Chinese Theater in  Los Angeles  as
TCL Chinese Theater, the cultural landmark along the Hollywood
Walk of Fame, and signing a product placement deal for this
year’s third  Iron Man  movie.  Europe  now represents about 15 percent of TCL’s revenue, he
said. The U.S. market is much smaller, he said.  TCL also seeks to keep its dividend policy “stable as
earnings continue to grow,” with a payout ratio of about 30
percent to 40 percent, he said. Li ruled out starting a share
buyback program as TCL prefers to reinvest the cash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Berlin at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  