-- Corporate Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall After August Payrolls Report
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-09-06T20:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-after-august-payrolls-report.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
fell the most in two weeks after a slower-than-forecast gain in
employment last month.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 1.8
basis points to a mid-price of 81.8 basis points as of 4:23 p.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. Earlier
the measure decreased as much as 2.4 basis points, the biggest
intraday fall since Aug. 22.  Investors are looking at the strength of the economic
recovery to ascertain when the Federal Reserve will begin to
reduce its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases that have
bolstered credit markets. Employers added 169,000 workers in
August, Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington ,
lower than the 180,000 median forecast of 96 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  “People are starting to think the economy is not
recovering as fast and there’s a little weakness,” Andrew Brenner, head of international fixed income for National
Alliance Securities, said in a telephone interview. “With these
kinds of numbers out there, it doesn’t necessarily mean that
September is a no-go for tapering, but the odds are less.”  Credit swaps, which typically decline when investor
confidence increases and rise when it wanes, pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  September Tapering  The Federal Open Market Committee will probably vote to
taper its unprecedented stimulus program when it meets Sept.
17-18, according to 65 percent of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg Aug. 9-13.  Fed Bank of Chicago President Charles Evans said today that
the central bank shouldn’t pare its monthly bond buying until
inflation and economic growth pick up. He is a voter on policy
this year.  “To start the wind-down, it will be best to have
confidence that the incoming data show that economic growth
gained traction during the third quarter of this year and that
the transitory factors that we think have held down inflation
really do turn out to be transitory,” Evans said in a speech
today in Greenville, South Carolina.  The risk premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, fell 5.9 basis points to 398.6, Bloomberg prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries widened 2 basis points to 131.4
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt increased 4.3 basis points to 582.6.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
Investors Service and at least BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  