-- Credit Suisse Follows Barclays With Europe Exchange-Traded Note
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-09-06T20:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/credit-suisse-follows-barclays-with-europe-exchange-traded-note.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  is offering
an exchange-traded note tied to 50 of Europe’s largest companies
after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  rolled out a similar security less than four
months ago that has surged to sixth-largest in the U.S.  Both ETNs include “FI Enhanced Europe 50” in their names
and started out tracking twice the gains and losses of the STOXX
Europe 50 USD (Gross Return) Index, according to prospectuses
filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Both
securities charge an “exposure fee” of 0.76 percent more than
the three-month London interbank offered rate.  The Credit Suisse note began trading today under the ticker
FIEU.  In May, Barclays Plc introduced its ETN, which was
structured with Fisher Asset Management LLC, under the symbol
FEEU, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The note, which
had $778.7 million of assets at the close of trading yesterday,
is the only ETN among the six biggest in the U.S. that’s less
than two and a half years old.  Katherine Ewert, a spokeswoman for Credit Suisse in  New
York , and  Mark Lane  of Barclays, declined to comment.  Credit Suisse,  Switzerland ’s second-largest bank, issues
nine other ETNs under its own name and 18 of the securities
under the VelocityShares brand, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The  largest  is the VelocityShares Daily Inverse VIX
Short-Term ETN, with $814.6 million in total assets, Bloomberg
data show.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  