-- Crude Climbs to Two-Year High on Syria
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-09-06T19:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/crude-rises-for-second-day-after-jobs-report.html
West Texas Intermediate crude rose
to a two-year high as Russian President Vladimir Putin said his
nation will assist  Syria  if it’s attacked, raising concern that
escalating tension will disrupt Middle East oil exports.  Prices climbed 2 percent. Putin said that  Russia  may resume
deliveries of advanced S-300 anti-aircraft missiles to Syria if
the U.S. President  Barack Obama  carries through on a threat to
punish Syrian President Bashar al-Assad for allegedly using
chemical weapons against civilians. Crude also gained on
speculation that the Federal Reserve will limit its stimulus
reduction following slower-than-expected jobs growth.  “The involvement by Russia could escalate things and take
it beyond Syrian borders,” said Kyle Cooper, director of
commodities research at IAF Advisors in Houston. “The situation
in Syria is fluid and that has the market concerned. The
disappointing jobs numbers probably make people thinking that
Fed tapering might be delayed.”  WTI for October delivery gained $2.16 to $110.53 a barrel
on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the highest settlement
since May 3, 2011. Prices advanced 2.7 percent this week. Volume
of all futures was 2.5 percent below 100-day average at 3:19
p.m.  Brent for October settlement rose 86 cents, or 0.7 percent,
to end the session at $116.12 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The volume of all futures traded was 1.3 percent below
the 100-day average.  WTI-Brent  The European benchmark crude was at a premium of $5.59 to
WTI, compared with $6.89 yesterday. WTI increased more than
Brent after the U.S. reported yesterday that  inventories  at
Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point for New York futures,
decreased 1.83 million barrels last week to 34.8 million, the
lowest level since February 2012.  “WTI is reacting to consistent inventory draws in Cushing,
 Oklahoma ,” said Soozhana Choi, Deutsche Bank AG’s head of
energy research in  Washington . “Geopolitical concerns are
having a big impact on the oil market.”  Russia, one of Assad’s main international allies, sent an
amphibious assault ship to join its forces off the Syrian coast
in the east Mediterranean, Interfax news agency reported.  “Will we help Syria? We will,” Putin told reporters today
after discussing the Syrian issue with Obama and other world
leaders at the Group of 20 summit in St. Petersburg, Russia.
“We are already helping them with weapons and we are
cooperating in the economic and humanitarian spheres.”  Global Consensus  There’s an increasing global consensus that Syria must be
confronted over its use of chemical weapons, Obama said during a
news conference at the close of the summit. The president said
that he plans to make his case in an address to the American
people next week.  He is seeking approval from Congress before taking action
against Syria. The Senate Foreign Relations Committee voted
Sept. 4 for a  restricted operation , clearing the way for
consideration by the full Senate. U.S. lawmakers are scheduled
to reconvene on Sept. 9 after a five-week break.  “Geopolitical issues have elevated both WTI and Brent,”
said Michael Peterson, managing director and senior equity
analyst at MLV & Co. in Houston. “It’s in no one’s interest to
see this spiral out of control.”  The Middle East accounted for about 35 percent of global
oil production in the first quarter of this year, according to
the International Energy Agency. Syria borders  Iraq  and is near
 Iran , countries that together hold almost a fifth of the output
capacity from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
Bloomberg estimates show.  U.S. Jobs  Prices also climbed as the Labor Department said non-farm
payrolls grew 169,000 last month, less than 180,000 median
forecast of 96 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The move
followed a revised 104,000 rise in July that was smaller than
the initial estimate of 162,000.  The unemployment rate, derived from a survey of households
rather than employers, dropped to 7.3 percent, the lowest level
since December 2008. The  participation rate , which indicates the
share of working-age people in the labor force, declined to 63.2
percent, the least since August 1978, from 63.4 percent.  The weaker data come as Fed officials, who meet Sept.
17-18, are debating whether the economy and job market have
improved enough to warrant trimming bond purchases.  “Any tapering is going to be very gradual and very
cautious,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics
LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “It should be
supportive for crude prices. This report shows how fragile the
modest recovery in the labor market is.”  Fed Stimulus  Chicago Fed President Charles Evans, a policy voter who has
consistently supported stimulus, said today in a speech in
Greenville, South Carolina, that the Fed shouldn’t taper its $85
billion in monthly bond buying until inflation and economic
growth pick up.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
October was 25.6 percent, up from 25.4 percent yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 534,452
contracts as of 3:19 p.m. It totaled 387,047 contracts
yesterday, 39 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.87 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  