-- Daimler to Let Volkswagen Vanmaking Accord Lapse in 2016
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-09-06T10:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/daimler-to-let-volkswagen-vanmaking-accord-lapse-in-2016.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the third-biggest luxury
carmaker, will let a contract to build vans for  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
expire in three years and use the capacity for the next version
of its own large commercial model.  An agreement to make Volkswagen’s Crafter vehicle on the
same German production lines as the Mercedes Sprinter van will
cease in late 2016, Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler said in a
 statement  today.  “Both partners had a benefit from the long-lasting
cooperation,” Volker Mornhinweg, head of the Mercedes van
division, said in the statement. “With the next Sprinter, which
is currently in development, we will ultimately be dependent on
the production capacities that we have currently made available
to Volkswagen.”  Volkswagen is developing its own new Crafter model, Eckhard Scholz, head of VW’s commercial-vehicle division, said on March
15. Volker Seitz, a spokesman at the division, reiterated today
by phone that the company hasn’t decided where the vehicle will
be built. VW’s other vans include the mid-size T5, built in
Hanover,  Germany , and the Caddy delivery vehicle, produced in
Poznan,  Poland .  Daimler is holding discussions with  Renault SA (RNO)  to expand an
existing partnership to large vans, Uta Leitner, a Daimler
spokeswoman, said by phone today, reiterating comments made in
late April. “Renault has expressed their interest” though
“there are no concrete plans yet,” Leitner said.  ‘Exploratory Talks’  Renault, based in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-Billancourt,
is in “early exploratory talks” on a project, said Raluca Barb, a spokeswoman at the French carmaker.  The two manufacturers already cooperate on Daimler’s
smaller Citan delivery van, which the German company adapted
from Renault’s Kangoo.  Mercedes started contract manufacturing for Volkswagen in
2005 and produced about 280,000 vehicles for the Wolfsburg,
Germany-based carmaker through 2012 at plants in Dusseldorf and
Ludwigsfelde, near Berlin. The two factories have combined
annual production of about 150,000 vans.  Mercedes presented a revamped version of the Sprinter in
April with updated safety features including a crosswind
assistant and engines complying with the Euro VI emission
standard becoming mandatory for new vehicles next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  