-- Delta Regains S&P 500 Status Lost on Eve of Bankruptcy
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-09-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/delta-to-replace-bmc-software-in-s-p-500-after-improving-credit.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , the world’s
second-largest carrier, will replace  BMC Software Inc. (BMC)  in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index after reducing debt and restarting
dividend payments in its comeback from bankruptcy.  The move will take effect after the close of trading on
Sept. 10, according to a  statement  yesterday from S&P Dow Jones
Indices, making Atlanta-based Delta just the second carrier in
the index after Southwest Airlines Co. BMC is being bought by
closely held Bain Capital LLC.  “They try to reflect the nature of the American economy as
much as possible, and as a large player in the  airline industry ,
it makes sense that they would go in,” said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion at BB&T Wealth Management
in Birmingham,  Alabama .  Inclusion in the benchmark gauge for U.S. equities marks a
milestone in Delta’s turnaround after being dropped in August
2005 ahead of its bankruptcy filing weeks later. President Ed Bastian said in a May 22 interview that executives were hopeful
that Delta would win back its spot in the index and eventually
regain investment-grade credit ratings.  The S&P revision will prompt money managers to shift
holdings to match the index, Hellwig said by phone. More than $5
trillion is  benchmarked  to the  S&P 500 , according to the
website. Delta’s  shares  climbed as much as 5.5 percent to $20.99
in trading after U.S. exchanges closed yesterday.  At $17.1 billion, Delta’s market value was the largest
among U.S. airlines, ahead of United Continental Holdings Inc.’s
$10.6 billion.  ‘Short List’  Trebor Banstetter, a Delta spokesman, didn’t return phone
and e-mail messages left after normal business hours yesterday.
Bastian said in the May interview that Delta had been told by
investment bankers it was “on some short list” of possible
index additions.  Delta’s 68 percent gain this year is the second most in the
Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index, trailing only discount carrier
 Spirit Airlines Inc. (SAVE)  The closing price of $19.89 was 2.7 percent
less than on April 30, 2007, the day Delta left court
protection, as the airline continues to claw back from a bear-market low of $3.93 in March 2009.  S&P rates Delta as B+, or four steps below investment
grade, after a May 10 boost from B marked the first upgrade
since its bankruptcy exit. Moody’s Investors Service’s  rating is
an equivalent B1 , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Debt Target  Delta set a new target in May for lowering its adjusted net
debt to $7 billion from a previous goal of $10 billion, which it
projects meeting in 2013. Four years ago, the debt stood at $17
billion.  As part of its bankruptcy restructuring, the airline shed
6,000 workers and added overseas routes -- 60 to start with upon
its Chapter 11 exit -- that typically command higher fares
because of the absence of discount competition.  In 2008, Chief Executive Officer  Richard Anderson  acquired
 Northwest Airlines , vaulting Delta to the top of the global
traffic rankings until  United Airlines  and Continental Airlines
merged to form United Continental in 2010.  In May, Delta announced plans to return $1 billion to
investors by repurchasing stock for the first time since 2000
and restarting its dividend after a decade-long break. The
dividend of 6 cents a share will be payable on Sept. 10, when
Delta rejoins the S&P 500.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  