-- Dentons, MoFo, Cravath, Skadden, Katten: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-09-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/dentons-mofo-cravath-skadden-katten-business-of-law.html
Dentons LLP opened a satellite
office in Astana, Kazakhstan, in July headed by Birzhan
Zharasbayev.  Zharasbayev, who has been with Dentons since 2006, focuses
on construction and real estate, corporate and commercial
matters and mergers and acquisitions, the firm said. He provided
advice on several draft laws and co-drafted Kazakhstan’s
legislation on Islamic banking and finance.  Dentons has a Kazakhstan office in Almaty, headed by Aigoul Kenjebayeva. Denton’s Kazakh practice now has more than 35 fee
earners, including six partners.  “This is a great opportunity for us to build on the
success we have had in Almaty and to provide our clients with
legal advice in the locations where they need it,” Dariusz Oleszczuk, Europe chief executive officer for Dentons, said in a
statement. “Kazakhstan is a rapidly growing economic hub in the
CIS region, so strengthening our capabilities and presence in
this country is of strategic importance to us.”  Dentons was formed in March by the Salans LLP, Fraser
Milner Casgrain LLP and SNR Denton law firms. It has more than
2,500 lawyers and professionals in 79 locations in 52 countries
in  Africa , Asia, Europe, the Middle East and the Americas.  Morrison & Foerster Names Office Managing Partners  Morrison & Foerster LLP named two managing partners, Philip
Besirof in San Francisco and David Strong in Denver.  Besirof, a partner in the firm’s securities litigation,
enforcement and white-collar defense group, will succeed Michael Agoglia. Strong, a partner in the tax department, will succeed
Randall Fons. Strong handles tax matters related to mergers and
acquisitions, joint ventures, private equity and venture capital
investments and other types of capital market transactions, the
firm said.  MoFo has more than 1,000 lawyers at 16 offices in the U.S.,
Europe and Asia.  Deals  Cravath, Kirkland on Alliant Techsystems Deal to Buy Bushnell  Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP represented  Alliant Techsystems
Inc. (ATK) , the world’s largest ammunition maker that obtained a $900
million financing commitment to support its acquisition of
Bushnell Group Holdings Inc. from MidOcean Partners LP. Kirkland
& Ellis LLP represented MidOcean Partners.  Bank of America Corp. is providing the senior secured
loans, the Arlington, Virginia-based company known as ATK said
during a teleconference yesterday. The company may refinance
existing borrowings, including extending maturities into the
five- and seven-year range, Neal Cohen, chief financial officer,
said on the call.  Private-equity firm MidOcean is selling Bushnell Group,
which it obtained in 2007, to ATK, according to a statement
yesterday. Under terms of the agreement, ATK will pay about $985
million in cash, Cohen said during the call.  The Cravath team included Damien R. Zoubek, M&A; Craig F. Arcella and Stephen M. Kessing, financing; David J. Kappos,
intellectual property; and J. Leonard Teti II, tax.  Kirkland corporate partners Andrew Herman and George Stamas
led the deal team.  Bushnell sells sporting products including trail cameras,
binoculars, hunting and shooting accessories and riflescopes.  Five Firms on Louisiana-Pacific Deal to Buy Ainsworth Lumber  Jones Day, Stikeman Elliott LLP and Orrick Herrington &
Sutcliffe LLP advised  Louisiana-Pacific Corp. (LPX) , which agreed to
buy Ainsworth Lumber Co. for about C$906 million ($863 million)
to add Canadian output of oriented strand board, a plywood
substitute, as it bets on growth in U.S. and Asian housing.  Ainsworth’s legal advisers are Goodmans LLP and Skadden
Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP.  The Jones Day team is led by partner Mark Betzen on mergers
and acquisitions.  Stikeman Elliott is acting as Canadian counsel to
Louisiana-Pacific with a legal team that includes Steeve Robitaille, Pierre-Yves Leduc and Pierre Raymond, M&A; Luc
Bernier, tax; Paul Collins, Jeffrey Brown, competition; and John
Anderson and Jennifer Honeyman, M&A.  Orrick is lead U.S. antitrust and regulatory counsel for
Louisiana-Pacific. The team includes Robert P. Reznick, Pamela
Davis and David Smutny.  Goodmans is lead counsel to Ainsworth with a team that
includes Tim Heeney and Kirk Rauliuk, corporate/M&A; Joel
Schachter, investment  Canada ; Joe Conforti, employment; and
Carrie Smit, tax.  Skadden partner Christopher Morgan is advising on corporate
aspects of the transaction while James Keyte is on antitrust and
Charles Walker is advising on Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and
regulatory issues.  Louisiana-Pacific will pay about C$3.76 a share in cash and
stock, the companies said yesterday in a statement. The deal’s
value including assumed debt less Ainsworth’s estimated cash
balance is about $1.1 billion. The per-share bid price is 30
percent more than Vancouver-based Ainsworth’s closing price in
Toronto on Sept. 3.  The acquisition boosts Nashville, Tennessee-based
Louisiana-Pacific’s exposure to a recovery in U.S. house-building and gives it greater access to Asian markets including
 Japan , Chief Executive Officer Curt Stevens said on a conference
call. Construction spending in the U.S. increased in July to the
highest level in four years, propelled by gains in residential
real estate, the Commerce Department reported Sept. 3.  For more, click here.  Hogan Lovells, Skadden on Thomas Properties Texas Deal  Hogan Lovells LLP is legal counsel to  Parkway Properties
Inc. (PKY) , an office landlord in the southern U.S. that agreed to
acquire  Thomas Properties Group Inc. (TPGI)  for about $294 million in
stock to expand in the fast-growing  Texas  market. Skadden Arps
Slate Meagher & Flom LLP represents Thomas Properties.  Parkway will issue 0.3822 share for each of Thomas’s
shares, valued at $6.26 based on the Sept. 4 closing price, the
companies said in a statement yesterday. Including the
assumption of debt, closing costs and a bridge loan Parkway
intends to provide, the deal is valued at about $1.2 billion,
according to the companies.  Hogan Lovells deal team includes Warren Gorrell, David Bonser, Bruce Gilchrist, Prentiss Feagles, Lee Berner and Carin Carithers. The Skadden team includes Brian McCarthy and Jonathan Friedman, corporate, and Michael Beinus, tax.  Parkway, based in Orlando,  Florida , has been seeking to add
buildings in Texas, where thriving energy and technology
industries are boosting office rents and occupancies. The
acquisition will give the real estate investment trust two
properties in Houston and five in Austin after the sale of
Thomas’s interests in buildings in other areas.  “This transaction will significantly expand and upgrade
our presence in Houston and simultaneously will allow us to
fulfill our stated strategy of expanding into the Austin
market,” Parkway President and Chief Executive Officer James Heistand said in the statement.  Parkway separately agreed to sell almost all of Thomas’s
interests in two office towers in Philadelphia to  Brandywine
Realty Trust (BDN)  for $332 million. The buildings, One and Two
Commerce Square, comprise a full city block and total almost 1.9
million square feet (176,500 square meters), Brandywine said in
a statement. The Radnor, Pennsylvania-based REIT also will buy a
property and land parcel in Austin for $51 million.  For more, click here.  Law Firm Moves  Litigation and Investigations Lawyer Joins Katten in New York  Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP announced that Alan J. Brudner
joined its New York office as a partner in the Litigation and
Dispute Resolution practice. Most recently a partner at Paul
Hastings LLP, Brudner was also managing director and head of
litigation and investigations at UBS Investment Bank, Americas
as well as a Assistant U.S. Attorney.  Brudner will represent companies and individuals in
securities and business litigation matters and in connection
with criminal and regulatory probes undertaken by the U.S.
Justice Department and other government agencies. He has handled
matters involving allegations of market manipulation, bid-rigging, insider trading, fraudulent accounting, disclosure
deficiencies, sales practice violations, supervisory failures,
tax evasion, corrupt foreign payments, commercial bribery, and
false books and records.  Brudner’s hire follows that of another recent UBS
executive. David L. Goldberg, formerly executive director and
senior associate general counsel for UBS, moved to Katten in
July.  Katten has more than 600 attorneys in locations across the
U.S. and in  London  and  Shanghai .  Squire Sanders Boosts Corporate Team with Eversheds Hire  Squire Sanders LLP expanded its global corporate practice
in Manchester, U.K., with the hire of mergers and acquisitions
and capital markets partner Daniel Liptrott, formerly of
Eversheds LLP.  Liptrott specializes in transactions for private and listed
clients as well as advising on capital markets transactions. He
also advises clients on corporate governance matters.  Liptrott’s recent experience includes advising NCC Group
Plc on its acquisitions of iSEC Partners Inc., SDLC Solutions
Ltd. and Meridian Services Ltd., advising Lookers Plc on its
acquisition of Lomond Motors, and advising Elior on its disposal
of its Paul business, the firm said in a statement.  “Daniel’s background and strong local profile, together
with his track record in developing close relationships with
corporate clients, made him a good fit with our existing team,”
Jane Haxby, Europe Middle East and Africa chairwoman of Squire
Sanders global corporate practice, said in a statement.  Squire Sanders has more than 1,300 lawyers in 39 offices in
19 countries.  Brown Rudnick Adds Transactional Expertise in Orange County  Brown Rudnick LLP announced that Numan J. Siddiqi,
previously with Stradling Yocca Carlson & Rauth PC, joined the
Orange County office as a partner in the Corporate group.  Siddiqi’s corporate practice includes public and private
securities offerings, venture capital transactions, mergers and
acquisitions, and secured loan transactions, the firm said. He
represents public and private companies, advising on formation
and organizational structure, as well as matters such as
executive compensation, stock incentive plans, licensing
agreements, development and distribution transactions, strategic
alliances and securities filing compliance.  “Our Orange County office, formally Rus, Miliband & Smith,
has long been recognized for its excellence in complex
commercial litigation,” Joseph F. Ryan, chairman and chief
executive officer of Brown Rudnick, said in a statement. “One
of our goals when combining with Rus, Miliband & Smith was to
develop a strong corporate and life sciences presence in Orange
County, and Numan is our first corporate addition to that
office.”  Brown Rudnick has offices in the U.S. and Europe.  John Zhang Joins Edwards Wildman’s Los Angeles Office  Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP hired Jinshu “John” Zhang in
Los Angeles in its business law department. He was previously in
the corporate and securities group at Reed Smith LLP.  Zhang’s practice includes mergers, acquisitions, private
placements, public offerings of securities, and other business
transactions, with a particular emphasis on Chinese outbound
investments.  Edwards Wildman has more than 600 lawyers at 15 offices in
the U.S., Asia and London.  Video  How DLA Piper Became Highest-Grossing Firm in 9 Years  Kent Zimmermann, consultant to law firms for the Zeughauser
Group, talks with Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia about how DLA
Piper LLP became the nation’s highest-grossing law firm in less
than nine years. This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch
or listen to this report now, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  New York  at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 