-- Detroit State Court Seeks Involvement in City Bankruptcy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-09-06T19:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/detroit-state-court-seeks-involvement-in-city-bankruptcy.html
A state court in  Detroit  will
participate in the city’s record, $18 billion municipal
bankruptcy, saying it reserved its right to adjudicate
“noncore” matters related to the federal case.  Attorney John Gregg filed paperwork in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Detroit on behalf of Michigan’s 36th District Court
asking for copies of all pleadings filed in the case. Such
requests are normally only filed by creditors and other private
parties that believe they are affected by a bankruptcy case.  Gregg declined to comment when asked why the court hired
him.  The filing is “pretty bizarre,” bankruptcy attorney Mark Berman said. “I’ve never heard of an attorney appearing for a
court.”  The state court handles small-claims lawsuits involving
amounts less than $25,000, traffic cases and misdemeanor
criminal cases. It only handles felonies through the early
stages before passing them off to a higher court, according to
the court website.  “The submission and filing of this notice and demand
constitutes a ‘special appearance,’” Gregg wrote in the filing.
The filing isn’t “a consent to, or a waiver of, the right to
challenge jurisdiction of this Court to adjudicate noncore
matters, which right the 36th District Court for the State of
 Michigan  expressly reserves without prejudice.”  Ruling Overturned  Nancy Blount, the chief judge with the 36th District Court,
didn’t immediately return a call for comment.  After the city filed the biggest municipal bankruptcy ever
in the U.S., another Michigan jurist, Circuit Court Judge
Rosemarie E. Aquilina in Lansing, ordered Governor Rick Snyder
to withdraw his authorization of Detroit’s bankruptcy.  That ruling was put on hold by a higher state court and the
federal judge overseeing the bankruptcy barred legal actions
related to the case against the city or any of its officials,
citing the supremacy of federal law.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  