-- Deutsche Bahn Loses EU Court Bid to Quash Antitrust-Raid Orders
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-09-06T09:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/deutsche-bahn-loses-eu-court-bid-to-quash-antitrust-raid-orders.html
Deutsche Bahn  AG,  Germany ’s state-owned railway, lost its bid to overturn separate European Union
decisions ordering antitrust raids at the company’s offices.  The EU General Court in Luxembourg said today regulators
didn’t break EU rules with a series of inspections that Deutsche
Bahn said started out as a “fishing expedition” seeking
evidence of competition-law violations.  The European Commission, the EU’s antitrust watchdog, in
2011 raided Deutsche Bahn’s offices to check allegations that DB
Energie was favoring the group’s rail-freight arm over others.
During that first raid, the commission gathered evidence which
led it to order a second and a third raid into possible
competition issues by the “strategic use” of infrastructure by
the companies in the Deutsche Bahn group, according to a court
filing.  The Brussels-based EU regulator opened a formal probe into
Deutsche Bahn’s DB Energie unit last year to check whether it
offers discounts that may inflate prices for Deutsche Bahn
rivals, putting them possibly at a “competitive disadvantage.”
Traction current is electricity used to power locomotives.  In the court appeals, which were all filed in 2011,
Deutsche Bahn called the commission’s first raid in March that
year a “fishing expedition” because it was
“disproportionately wide and non-specific” and violated the
company’s defense rights.  The company also challenged the unlawfulness of the
commission’s raids that resulted from the first inspections and
the material the regulator had gathered there.  Deutsche Bahn last month offered remedies in a bid to
settle the EU investigation. The  proposals  include a new pricing
system for traction current “with separate supply prices for
electricity and separate grid-access fees,” the EU said Aug.
15.  The remedies would also include a “one-time retroactive
refund” of 4 percent for railway companies that don’t belong to
the DB Group of their traction-current invoice for the year
preceding the new pricing system. The proposals will be made
legally binding and last for five years, if the commission
accepts them.  The Berlin-based company said it was unable to immediately
comment on today’s ruling.  The cases are: T-289/11, T-290/11, T-521/11, Deutsche Bahn
and others v. Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  