-- Dollar Drops Most in 8 Weeks as Jobs Data Cool Fed Taper Views
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-09-06T21:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/dollar-declines-after-august-employment-growth-trails-forecasts.html
The dollar fell the most in more
than eight weeks after U.S. employers added fewer workers last
month than forecast, damping speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will cut bond purchases this month.  The U.S. currency weakened versus a majority of its 16-most-traded counterparts after a Labor Department report showed
payrolls rose by 169,000 in August, compared with a median
forecast of 96 economists surveyed by Bloomberg that called for
a 180,000 jobs gain. The U.S. jobless rate fell to 7.3 percent.
 Canada ’s dollar rose to the highest level in more than two weeks
as the nation  added jobs  last month at triple the pace forecast.  “Disappointing jobs data drove the U.S. dollar sharply
lower,”  Kathy Lien , managing director of foreign exchange at BK
Asset Management, an investment advisory firm in New York, wrote
in a client note. “However, the weak jobs number does not
completely eliminate the possibility of a change in asset
purchases this month.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, fell 0.7 percent to 1,031.35
at 5 p.m. New York time, after slipping 0.8 percent, the biggest
drop since July 11.  Market Prices  The dollar fell 0.4 percent to $1.3178 per euro after
reaching its strongest level since July 19. It dropped 1 percent
to 99.11 per yen. The 17-nation euro depreciated 0.5 percent to
130.63 yen.  The dollar appreciated 5.1 percent this year, the best
performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro advanced 5
percent, while the yen slumped 9.4 percent.  The Canadian dollar gained versus the majority of its most-traded peers as employment rose by 59,200 in August, exceeding a
projected 20,000 job increase, according to median forecasts.
The loonie, as the currency is known for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 1 percent to C$1.0405
per  U.S. dollar , gaining the most since Aug. 8.  Malaysia’s ringgit declined versus all 31 of its most-traded peers after the country’s  trade surplus  fell to the
lowest since April and amid prospects the Fed will cut stimulus
that’s driven demand for emerging-market assets. The currency
slipped 0.7 percent to 3.3285 per dollar after falling 0.8
percent, the biggest drop since Aug. 22.  Rupee Strength  India ’s rupee climbed to the strongest level in more than a
week on optimism steps taken by the country’s central bank to
boost the supply of dollars will alleviate depreciation pressure
on the currency. It rose 1.3 percent to 65.25 per dollar after
touching 65.01, the highest since Aug. 27.  Trading today in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $19.6 billion, compared with $26.3 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  totaled $6.4 billion, the largest
share of trades at 33 percent. Options on the euro-dollar pair
amounted to $1.9 billion, or 9.6 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 76 percent more than the
average for the past five Fridays at a similar time in the day.
Euro-dollar options trading was 3 percent more than average.  Economic Analysis  The gain in U.S. jobs last month followed a revised 104,000
rise in July that was smaller than initially estimated, Labor
Department figures showed today in  Washington . Unemployment
dropped to the lowest since December 2008 as the participation
rate, which indicates the share of working-age people in the
 labor force , declined to 63.2 percent, the lowest since August
1978, from 63.4 percent.  “This is putting pressure on the dollar,” Brian Daingerfield, a  Stamford , Connecticut-based currency strategist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit, said
in a telephone interview. “Not only did the headline number in
August disappoint expectations, we also had a poor set of
revisions. Markets are going to start to question whether or not
the Fed will be tapering. ”  Minutes from the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s July 30-31
gathering, released Aug. 21, showed “almost all committee
members agreed that a change in the purchase program was not yet
appropriate,” and a few said “it might soon be time to slow
somewhat the pace of purchases as outlined in that plan.”  The Fed this month will taper its monthly bond purchases to
$75 billion from the current $85 billion pace, according to the
median estimate of 34 economists surveyed today by  Bloomberg
News .  Dollar Outlook  “The dollar’s strength will continue,” said Kikuko Takeda, a senior analyst in  London  at the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., a unit of  Japan ’s biggest financial group
by market value. “The Fed is not looking for positive data to
support the case for tapering, but it will go ahead with the
plan unless there is particularly bad news.”  The euro fell yesterday after European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said that policy makers had discussed an
interest-rate cut at a meeting this week.  Draghi said the ECB is “ready to act” as rising money-market rates threaten his drive to reassure investors that
borrowing costs will stay low. He spoke after policy makers kept
the  benchmark rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent.  The dollar declined for the first time in five days against
the yen as Treasury 10-year yields fell from the highest level
in more than two years. U.S. 10-year yields dropped six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 2.93 percent, after
reaching 3 percent for the first time since July 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in New York at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  