-- Dresser to Dril-Quip Seen as Targets for GE: Real M&A
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-09-06T23:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/dresser-to-dril-quip-seen-as-targets-for-ge-real-m-a.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ’s burgeoning
interest in oil and gas assets and a cash stockpile approaching
the highest level in at least a decade is turning Dresser-Rand
Group Inc. and Dril-Quip Inc. into potential takeover targets.  Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Immelt built the company’s
oil and gas unit, GE’s fastest-growing business since 2008,
through acquisitions including the July purchase of Lufkin
Industries Inc. for more than $3 billion. Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. sees GE deploying some of its $19.3 billion in  cash  on
takeovers amid a boom in U.S. drilling.  Dresser-Rand, which makes compressors and turbines, and
Dril-Quip, a subsea drilling equipment manufacturer, could be
attractive targets for GE, Global Financial Private Capital LLC
said.  Dril-Quip (DRQ)  is  projected  to boost sales by 63 percent in the
next three years, faster than all but two similar-sized U.S.
peers, and analysts see Dresser-Rand expanding 51 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. While a GE bid for
those companies could raise antitrust concerns, Chart Industries
Inc., a maker of natural gas storage equipment, could also lure
interest, Eagle Asset Management Inc. said.  “Good assets are available” in oil and gas, Steven Winoker, a New York-based analyst at Bernstein, said in a phone
interview. “They want to continue to be bigger here and make it
a bigger part of the company.”  Finance Spinoff  Seth Martin, a spokesman for Fairfield, Connecticut-based
GE, said the company doesn’t comment on speculation.  Immelt said in December that he wants industrial divisions
to eventually  account  for 70 percent of earnings, and told a
conference in May that GE is considering spinning off parts of
its finance unit through an initial public offering.  He has bought companies including Lufkin, Dresser Inc. and
the well-support division of  John Wood Group Plc (WG/)  to help expand
the oil and gas division’s annual sales by 54 percent in four
years to $15.2 billion in 2012. He’s positioning GE to take
advantage of what he called a “natural gas revolution” and
surging oil production from the U.S. shale drilling boom.  American crude output grew at a record pace in 2012, rising
more than at any time since the first commercial oil well was
drilled in 1859.  That’s helping drive up capital spending for exploration
and production, with worldwide expenditures projected to climb
to a record $678 billion in 2013, up 10 percent from 2012, James West, an analyst at Barclays Plc in New York, wrote in a June 4
report.  Growth Business  “No matter what you think of the oil business or where you
think the price of oil is going, it would be hard not to look at
this as a growth business,” said Chris Bertelsen, chief
investment officer of Sarasota, Florida-based Global Financial,
which oversees about $2.1 billion. “It makes sense for them to
look at small, bolt-on acquisitions where it’s not economical
for them to go through a lot of R&D and brand it as their own.”  Immelt’s cash hoard, bolstered by GE’s $16.7 billion exit
this year from NBCUniversal, creates an opening for more deals
in the oil and gas industry, with Dril-Quip and Dresser-Rand
among attractive potential targets, Winoker of Bernstein wrote
in an Aug. 21 note to clients.  Blaise Derrico, a Dresser-Rand spokesman, said the company
doesn’t comment on speculation. Dril-Quip Chief Financial
Officer Jerry Brooks didn’t respond to phone messages seeking
comment. The two Houston-based companies have market values of
$4.7 billion and $4.3 billion, respectively.  Sales Growth  Analysts estimate Dresser-Rand’s  revenue  will climb 51
percent from last year to $4.1 billion in 2015, compared with a
median growth rate of 35 percent at U.S. oil and gas services
companies valued at more than $1 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Dresser-Rand is an acquisition candidate for a more
diversified capital equipment company or industrial conglomerate
looking to capitalize on increasing demand for oil equipment, J. David Anderson, a New York-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase &
Co., said in May.  Dril-Quip will  boost  sales to $1.2 billion in 2015, up from
$733 million last year, beating the growth rate at 93 percent of
similar-sized peers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Dril-Quip is always at the top of the list of companies
that are talked about as a consolidation target,” Will Gabrielski, a New York-based analyst at Lazard Capital Markets
LLC, said in a phone interview. It “has very visible multiyear
growth in front of it.”  Antitrust Concerns  A deal with GE could potentially be viewed by regulators as
anti-competitive, he said.  While a takeover of Dresser-Rand, which lists GE Oil & Gas
as a top competitor, could also face antitrust scrutiny,  Chart (GTLS) 
may be an appealing target, Eagle Asset’s Eric Mintz said. The
investment firm oversees about $10 billion, including Dresser-Rand, Dril-Quip and Chart shares.  Chart makes storage equipment for liquefied natural gas, a
fuel that many railroads are studying as they seek to cut
operating costs. Sales at the company, which has a market value
of $3.6 billion, are poised to jump 66 percent through 2015 to
$1.7 billion, according to the average of analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “GE has got a big locomotive business,” Mintz, a St.
Petersburg, Florida-based fund manager, said in a phone
interview. “If this is the next wave in spending by railroads,
it certainly would be very attractive to them.”  Chris Rioux, manager of investor relations and financial
planning at Garfield Heights, Ohio-based Chart, said the company
doesn’t comment on speculation.  Today,  Dresser-Rand (DRC)  shares climbed less than 1 percent to
$61.67 at the close in New York, while Dril-Quip fell less than
1 percent to $106.19. Chart rose 0.2 percent to $118.65.  ‘Sweet Spot’  Relatively high valuations could deter GE. Dril-Quip’s
price-earnings ratio of 30 tops all but two peers, while
Dresser-Rand is pricier than 72 percent of the group, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chart’s  enterprise value  of $3.7 billion is 23 times its
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
a higher multiple than 95 percent of fabricated metal and
hardware manufacturing companies valued at more than $1 billion,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Focusing on oil and gas targets like Chart would allow GE
to expand in an industry with high growth potential, said
Charlie Smith, chief investment officer of Pittsburgh-based Fort
Pitt Capital Group Inc., which oversees $1.5 billion including
GE shares.  “Their energy-focused efforts in M&A over the past few
years have been a good idea,” Smith said in a phone interview.
“It should really be a sweet spot for GE.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  