-- East Coast Temperatures Swing Warm to Cool Through Mid-September
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-09-06T12:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/east-coast-temperatures-swing-warm-to-cool-through-mid-september.html
The U.S. East Coast may see
temperatures fluctuate between warm and cool during the next two
weeks, forecasters said.  Highs and lows may be separated by at least 24 degrees
Fahrenheit (13 Celsius) during the course of this weekend in
 Washington  and  New York , the  National Weather Service  said.  The ups and downs may continue through Sept. 20,  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,
 Maryland , said today.  “One of the trickiest parts of the forecast is the back-and-forth variability on the East Coast,” Rogers said in a note
to clients.  Above-normal temperatures in the large cities of the
eastern U.S. tend to increase energy consumption because more
people seek air conditioning, while cooler temperatures can have
them turning up their thermostats.  Power generation accounts for 32 percent of U.S. gas
demand, according to the Energy Information Administration, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm.  The high in New York’s Central Park is expected to be 80
degrees in two days before dropping to 56 overnight, the weather
service said. In Washington, the high may reach 86 before
falling to a low of 62.  Rogers said he expects temperatures to approach 90 in
Washington and  Chicago  next week.  Mountain Cold  At the other extreme, frost advisories and freeze warnings
were issued for mountainous areas of  Pennsylvania , New York and
 New England  overnight, where temperatures fell into the 30s,
according to the weather service. At 7 a.m., the temperature was
37 in  Montpelier, Vermont , and 34 at Saranac Lake, New York.  The Northeast from eastern Pennsylvania to northern New
England may be at least 3 degrees below normal from today to
Sept. 10, Rogers said.  Temperatures there may become seasonal from Sept. 11 to
Sept. 15 before possibly rising 3 degrees or so through Sept. 16
to Sept. 20, he said.  At the same time, the Midwest and northern Great Plains
will probably be 5 to 8 degrees above normal, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  