-- Telecom Italia Is Said to Propose Reorganization to Board
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-09-07T17:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/telecom-italia-is-said-to-propose-reorganization-to-directors.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  is considering a
reorganization of its domestic units under a plan that would
create separate companies for its consumer and business
services, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  The carrier may create a holding company called Telecom
Italia Services, and transfer at least four separate divisions
under it: network spinoff candidate Opac SpA, retail customers,
business clients, and customer services, said the person, asking
not to be identified because the project is confidential.
Details of the plan are still being worked out and no final
decision has been made.  The company’s  top managers  plan to present the proposal to
directors at a board meeting on Sept. 19, said the person.
Creating separate companies would allow them to have their own
balance sheets and reduce costs as  Italy ’s biggest phone company
seeks to avert a cut to  junk  of its debt rating.  Telecom Italia, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Franco Bernabe, is racing against time to seek fresh capital.
The carrier has renewed contact with Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , whose bid to acquire a stake in the Milan-based carrier
was rejected last year, people familiar with the matter said
this week, asking not to be identified discussing confidential
deliberations.  Telefonica Preference?  In a statement to  Bloomberg News  today, Sawiris said he’s
still potentially interested in an investment in Telecom Italia,
although he hasn’t made any offer since last October, when he
sent a letter to the company’s board.  “Mr Sawiris is considering not submitting any proposal in
view of the alleged preference for Telefonica reported in the
Italian press,” according to the statement. Il Messaggero
newspaper reported yesterday that Italy’s government may prefer
a merger of Telecom Italia with its largest shareholder,  Spain ’s
 Telefonica (TEF)  SA, to an agreement with Sawiris. The report didn’t
cite anyone.  Telecom Italia is considering an overhaul of its ownership
structure as Telco SpA, the holding company through which
Telefonica and three financial investors own almost 22.5 percent
of the carrier, is allowed to exercise a right to end the six-year partnership this month.  Telefonica is considering whether it would acquire
additional shares from the partners, another person said.  A Telecom Italia spokesman who asked not to be named citing
company policy declined to comment on the proposed
reorganization or on the Sept. 19 board meeting.  ‘Desirable Goal’  Gabriele Galateri, a Telecom Italia director speaking today
in Cernobbio, Italy, was asked about a possible merger of equals
with Telefonica.  “You’re putting many things together, a merger with
Telefonica, a merger of equals,” said Galateri, who is also
chairman of  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) , a Telco partner. “The
European market needs consolidation. It’s definitely a desirable
goal. Beyond which, whether it is possible or not possible
depends on many factors. We’ll see.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  