-- Hell and Back Is Route to Success for Mercedes to Chevy
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-09-06T04:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/hell-and-back-is-route-to-success-for-mercedes-to-chevy-cars.html
The road to Hell, it turns out, is a
great place to test drive cars.  Automakers seeking publicity try to get automotive
journalists in their vehicles, sometimes luring them to exotic
locations with gorgeous views, luxurious hotels and sumptuous
restaurants. Wine Country.  San Diego . The Autobahn.  And Hell.  An unincorporated  Michigan  community about 60 miles (100
kilometers) west of Detroit,  Hell  boasts winding roads and a
diner called Screams Ice Cream. It has also become one of the
top places for automakers and journalists to test the day’s
newest cars, especially as a flood of new vehicles hits the
market after the turmoil of the recession.  A total of 376 models will be introduced in the U.S. from
this year through 2015, according to researcher Polk, as auto
sales run at the fastest pace since 2007 and deliveries in
August blew past expectations. Those new introductions compare
with 88 in 2011 and 91 in 2010, the year after industry sales
fell to a 27-year-low and both Chrysler and General Motors went
through bankruptcy reorganization.  “The economy is better, so the auto companies are doing
more programs and doing more regional programs to reach a wider
array of media,” said Michelle Krebs, a senior analyst with
Edmunds.com, a website that tracks the auto-retail market.  Puns Inevitable  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz held three events with routes
through Hell this year, including for the new E-Class mid-size
luxury sedan, while  General Motors Co. (GM)  had journalists drive
Chevrolet Cruze sedans to the Hell Creek Ranch, where they
switched from the compact cars into the full-size Chevrolet
Impala that  Consumer Reports  called the best sedan on the
market. A few weeks later, journalists passed through Hell again
driving GM’s Buick LaCrosse.  The inevitable puns follow. WardsAuto, an industry trade
publication,  reviewed  the Cruze in July by asking how far the
diesel version can travel on a single tank of fuel: “Almost to
Hell and back.”  Joann Muller began a Forbes.com  article  last year by
stating: “I just spent two days driving through Hell, and I
promise you, it was worth the trouble.”  Such fun is to the chagrin of Christopher Jensen, 65, a
freelance journalist based in Bethlehem,  New Hampshire .  “It’s not exactly a tribute to the human spirit or
intellect, but it does appear to be irresistible,” he said. “I
suspect if somebody named a town Poopy it would be very popular
as well.”  Great Roads  Jensen founded the North American Car and Truck of the Year
awards more than 20 years ago and suggested later that the roads
around Hell might make a good spot to test the finalists.  “It’s close enough to Detroit that the automakers have no
big problem getting their vehicles out” there, he said.
“Within about two minutes you can be on a really great
selection of roads.”  In some spots, the narrow country roads rise and fall like
a roller-coaster ride, while other areas are flat and straight
enough for a quick burst before turning into another curve
covered by a canopy of trees.  The good roads have attracted car engineers to the area for
years, said John Colone, 67, who owned a Chrysler dealership in
nearby Pinckney for more than 20 years.  “Almost daily you’ll see Chrysler, General Motors and Ford
here with cars all covered up,” he said of Hell.  Campy Appeal  In 2000, Colone sold his dealership and tried retirement.
It lasted about three months before he set up Screams in Hell
and began his efforts to market his ice cream -- and the
community. His ice cream shop is painted in Halloween orange
with cartoon-like portraits of a devil and green witch. He has a
miniature golf course, a wedding chapel -- “A marriage that
starts in Hell has nowhere to go but up,” Colone likes to say
-- and a gift shop where the teenage girl working behind the
counter dutifully wishes visitors goodbye with a “have a
helluva day.” Colone estimates he attracts about 200,000
visitors a year.  “I’m living proof that car dealers go to Hell,” said
Colone, who lists himself as mayor of Hell on his LinkedIn page.
Hell is an unincorporated community with 72 residents that was
settled in 1838 by a man who built a whiskey still, Colone said.
When wives were asked about their husbands, they would say
they’d gone to Hell, he said. The Hell property association
doesn’t count people living in the nearby Hiland Lake area
because in 1952 they tried to change Hell’s name, he said, and
“the people in Hell still hold a grudge.”  ‘Lightly Patrolled’  Colone understands the appeal of the area for test drives.  “It’s our beautiful back roads -- they’re lightly
patrolled,” he said. Also, “it’s that novelty of going to
Hell.”  Journalists preparing reviews and engineers refining a
model in development often wheel around the area.  “Anyone who is anyone does like to drive to Hell,” said
Scott Burgess,  Detroit  editor of  Motor Trend . “Those are some
of the best roads” in Southeast Michigan.  Krebs, of Edmunds, agrees: “It may be Hell, but the roads
are heavenly for test drives, at least for Michigan, which has
few interesting, winding roads.”  Saving Money  Hell is competing with places such as San Diego to attract
automakers holding their vehicle-testing programs, which often
include several dozen journalists who take turns driving the
vehicles and are briefed by company executives on the models’
features and capabilities.  Media test drives are “a vital part of any vehicle launch
at any manufacturer,” said Miles Johnson, a Hyundai public-relations executive based in the Detroit area.  GM’s Chevrolet brand, which is introducing 13 new or
redesigned vehicles this year, took advantage of Hell’s location
for the diesel version of its compact Cruze while spending more
for journalists to test drive the new Corvette sports car
through the wine country north of Monterey,  California .  Colone is just happy to have the visitors.  “Every town is historical,” he said. “We’re
hysterical.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Hell, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  