-- Emanuel Halts Plans to Lease Chicago’s Midway Airport
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-09-06T13:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/emanuel-halts-plans-to-lease-chicago-s-midway-airport.html
Citing a lack of competition that
wouldn’t benefit taxpayers and travelers,  Chicago  Mayor Rahm Emanuel halted plans to lease Midway International Airport after
one of the remaining two bidding groups backed out.  Emanuel’s decision comes after the city picked two
finalists for a lease. The 53-year-old Democrat announced in
December his plans to explore such a transaction, reviving an
idea that died in 2009. The airport is Chicago’s second-biggest,
behind O’Hare International.  A bidding group consisting of  Ferrovial SA (FER)  and  Macquarie
Group Ltd. (MQG)  was the only one remaining after a consortium of
Industry Funds Management of Australia and Manchester Airports
Group Plc withdrew, according to Sarah Hamilton, a spokeswoman
for the mayor. The lack of competition led to Emanuel’s
decision, she said.  Spain’s Ferrovial, the largest stakeholder in Europe’s
busiest airport, London Heathrow, had teamed with Macquarie’s
infrastructure arm in a group called Great Lakes Airport
Alliance. Ferrovial operates the Chicago Skyway, a toll road on
the south side of the third-most-populous U.S. city about six
miles (9.7 kilometers) from Midway.  The Midway lease, which initially drew six bids including
from Gatwick owner Global Infrastructure Partners, was part of a
wider U.S. Federal Aviation Administration pilot program to
privatize airports and spur infrastructure investment.  Southwest
Airlines Co. (LUV) , the biggest low-fare carrier, dominates the volume
of flights at Midway.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  