-- Emerging Stocks Head for Weekly Gain as Indian Shares Advance
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-09-06T06:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/emerging-stocks-head-for-weekly-gain-as-indian-shares-advance.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, with
the benchmark index heading for the biggest weekly advance in
almost two months, as shares in India gained and South Korean
automakers rallied.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  jumped to an 11-month high after reaching
a preliminary agreement with its South Korean union to end a
strike. India’s S&P BSE Sensex added 1.1 percent as the rupee
strengthened 0.4 percent against the dollar. China Cosco
Holdings Co. climbed to the highest level since March in Hong
Kong on higher freight rates. The ringgit and rupiah slid at
least 0.5 percent before U.S. jobs data that may bolster the
case for the  Federal Reserve  to reduce stimulus.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.2 percent to 949.15
as of 2:35 p.m. in Hong Kong. The gauge has gained 2.1 percent
this week on signs the global economy is improving. Employers
probably picked up the pace of hiring in August and the U.S.
jobless rate held at a more than four-year low, economists said
before a report today. Emerging-market leaders at the Group of
20 summit in  Russia  cautioned that cuts to developed-nation
stimulus could stoke global volatility.  “We anticipate some volatility because we got confirmation
of U.S. tapering to come, the still smoldering euro crisis and
geopolitical events in the  Middle East ,”  Kevin Gardiner , head
of investment strategy for Barclays Plc’s wealth management unit,
told Bloomberg TV India. “We are confident that U.S. monthly
numbers will continue to improve, the Chinese economy will not
hard land and the global economy continues to go forward.”  Chinese Data  China’s customs office is scheduled to release August data
for imports and exports on Sept. 8. Overseas shipments are
expected to have gained 5.5 percent from a year ago, compared
with a 5.1 percent advance in July, according to the average
estimate from 36 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  A U.S. Senate panel this week voted to authorize President
 Barack Obama  to conduct a limited U.S. military operation
against  Syria  because of its use of chemical weapons.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index has lost 10 percent this
year, compared with a 12 percent gain in the MSCI World Index.
The developing-nation index  trades  at 10 times projected 12-month earnings, trailing the MSCI World’s 13.6 times, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  A gauge of consumer discretionary companies in the
developing-nation gauge rose 0.7 percent, the most among 10
industry  groups . Hyundai Motor rose 2.7 percent, its second day
of gains. The company reached a preliminary agreement with its
South Korean union to raise wages, paving the way for the end of
a strike that’s resulted in an estimated 1 trillion won ($910
million) in lost output.  Kia Motors  Affiliate Kia Motors Corp. surged 3 percent to the highest
level since October 18.  South Korea ’s Kospi Index added 0.2
percent to the highest level since June 5, while the won
strengthened 0.5 percent.  The Sensex headed for the highest level since Aug. 14 as
banks gained. ICICI Bank Ltd., India’s biggest private lender by
assets, rose to a six-week high in Mumbai. Engineering company
Larsen & Toubro Ltd. advanced to a one-week high.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index advanced 0.7 percent, poised
for the highest close since June 19, as shippers and airlines
rallied before trade data this weekend. Cosco Shipping Co.
jumped 10 percent in Shanghai.  China Cosco, the nation’s biggest shipping company, rallied
1 percent, its fourth day of gains. The Baltic Dry Index of
commodity freight prices rose 5.3 percent yesterday to its
highest level since January 2012.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  was little changed. Thailand’s SET Index
gained 0.9 percent, snapping a two-day slump. The S&P BSE Sensex
of Indian shares climbed 0.8 percent, while Taiwan’s Taiex Index
lost 0.1 percent.  Rate Speculation  The Jakarta Composite index fell 0.4 percent, its third day
of declines. Investors are expecting  Bank Indonesia (BMRI)  to raise
benchmark  interest rates  by as much as 50 basis points over the
next two board meetings, adding pressure to banks’ earnings and
margins, Syaiful Adrian, an analyst at Ciptadana Securities,
said by phone today.  The rupiah led a decline in Asian currencies this week on
concern signs of a U.S. economic recovery will support the case
for a reduction in stimulus that has fueled emerging-market
inflows. The yield on Indonesia’s sovereign bonds due May 2023
climbed 46 basis points this week to 8.87 percent, the highest
since February 2011, according to prices from the Inter Dealer
Market Association.  The ringgit weakened 0.6 percent after data today showed
imports surged more than exports in July, narrowing Malaysia’s
trade surplus to the least since April.  Malaysia’s default risk climbed above that of the
 Philippines  for the first time as Prime Minister Najib Razak
seeks to avoid a debt-rating cut, while his counterpart pitches
for upgrades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  