-- England Tops World Cup Qualifying Group; Klose Ties German Mark
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-09-06T22:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/england-tops-world-cup-qualifying-group-klose-ties-german-mark.html
England beat Moldova 4-0 to take the
lead in its qualifying group for the 2014 soccer  World Cup , and
a record-tying goal from  Miroslav Klose  helped Germany defeat
Austria 3-0.  Danny Welbeck  scored twice as England moved to the top of
Group H on goal difference over Montenegro, which drew 1-1 last
night at Poland. Klose tied the German national team goal record
by netting his 68th in Munich.  European and world champion Spain, Italy and  Portugal  all
won to increase their group leads, while Estonia ended the
Netherlands’ perfect qualifying run.  The winner of each of the nine European groups qualifies
for the 2014 World Cup in  Brazil , with the best eight runners-up
going into a playoff for the remaining four slots.  England took the lead in the 12th minute at Wembley Stadium
in London when  Steven Gerrard  scored with a low shot from the
edge of the area. Rickie Lambert, who scored in his England
debut against Scotland last month, struck again 15 minutes later
by heading in the rebound after Stanislav Namasco stopped  Theo Walcott .  Welbeck ran onto a pass from Lambert and slid a shot past
Namasco in first-half stoppage time to make it 3-0. The
Manchester United striker added his second goal five minutes
after the break off another pass from Lambert.  England and Montenegro have 15 points in Group H, with
England holding a goal difference lead of 15. Ukraine has 14
points after a 9-0 rout of San Marino and will host England in
the next round of games in three days.  Germany extended its lead in Group C to five points with
the home win as Klose tied Gerd Muller’s national team record in
the first half. Toni Kroos and  Thomas Mueller  then added goals
in the second half.  Sweden Wins  Sweden beat Ireland 2-1 in Dublin to move into second place
ahead of Austria, while Kazakhstan beat the winless Faroe
Islands 2-1 for its first victory.  Jordi Alba and Alvaro Negredo scored in Spain’s 2-0 win in
Finland. Spain now leads by three points in Group I over France,
which played to a scoreless draw in  Georgia .  Robin van Persie  scored with a stoppage-time penalty kick
to give the Netherlands a 2-2 draw in Estonia. The Dutch, who
had started qualifying with six straight wins, still lead Group
D with 19 points, six more than Romania, which beat Hungary 3-0.
Turkey routed Andorra 5-0 in the other group match.  Italy moved closer to qualification from Group B by beating
Bulgaria 1-0 on a goal from Alberto Gilardino. Italy has 17
points, seven more than Bulgaria. Armenia beat the Czech
Republic 2-1 to leave both teams tied for third place with
Denmark, which also won 2-1 at Malta.  Portugal’s Victory  Cristiano Ronaldo  scored three goals in the final 22
minutes to lead Portugal past  Northern Ireland  4-2. Helder Postiga received a red card for Portugal, while Kyle Lafferty
and Chris Brunt were sent off for Northern Ireland.  The victory keeps Portugal two points ahead of Russia,
which beat Luxembourg 4-0, in Group F.  Belgium increased its lead over Croatia to five points in
Group A with a 2-0 win in Scotland, while Croatia drew 1-1 in
Serbia and Macedonia beat Wales 2-1.  Group E leader Switzerland blew a three-goal lead in
drawing at home with Iceland 4-4. The Swiss still top Group E
with 15 points, four more than Norway, which beat Cyprus 2-0, as
Slovenia defeated Albania 1-0  Bosnia-Herzegovina lost 1-0 to Slovakia but still leads
Group G on goal difference over Greece, which won 1-0 in
Liechtenstein, with both teams on 16 points. Latvia beat
Lithuania 2-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  