-- Mesh Rising Energy Demand With World Water Needs, UN Envoy Says
-- B y   R a n d a l l   H a c k l e y
-- 2013-09-06T11:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/mesh-rising-energy-demand-with-world-water-needs-un-envoy-says.html
Earth’s energy demands must mesh
more seamlessly with the water and sanitation needs of an
increasingly water-stressed globe, a United Nations special
envoy said today to wrap up Stockholm World Water Week.  “Energy and water are two sides of the same coin, the
energy technologies are very thirsty,” said Kandeh Yumkella,
special representative of the UN secretary-general and the
Sustainable Energy for All Initiative chief executive.  “From now on we must talk about these two things
together,” Yumkella said at the closing session of the annual
event that drew 2,500 people from  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and Coca-Cola Co.
to  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Merck & Co. and  Nestle SA (NESN)  to the
Stockholm suburb of Aelvsjoe. Consider water a connector and not
a sector, “we must have nexus thinking.”  The Sierra Leone envoy warned of a world growing in
population and energy demands that UN data shows by 2030 will be
one in which almost 50 percent of the people live in high water-stress areas amid changing climate, millions leaving rural zones
as drought encroaches for cities, an Earth that will need 40
percent more energy and almost a third more water.  Today’s population by 2050 is expected to expand from 7
billion to 9 billion, prompting 70 percent more food and higher
energy demands from oil, gas and mining companies to farmers and
consumers.  That’s already raising tensions in water-stressed areas
that border waterways as “water footprint” data shows it takes
3,000 gallons (11,300 liters) of water to make a quarter-pound
burger and 40 barrels of water to produce a barrel of oil.  Transboundary Hotspots  “We’ve identified 20 potential hotspots” for water
conflicts, Yumkella said of areas such as Yemen, Jordan, the
Nile River basin and transboundary sites in  Africa , Asia and the
Middle East. “Energy security is real, energy demand is real.”  King Carl XVI Gustaf of  Sweden  presented sanitation
specialist Peter Morgan of Zimbabwe the Stockholm Water Prize
yesterday for lifelong works to protect the health of millions
from unsafe water and poor sanitation.  The citation honored Morgan for working in a world in which
2.5 billon people live without access to improved sanitation,
1.1 billion practice open defecation and about 58 percent of the
urban population in sub-Saharan Africa have no access to
sanitation facilities.  The award cited Morgan’s outdoor toilet innovations,
including the B-type bush pump and Blair Ventilated Pit latrine
that’s been adopted as the national standard by Zimbabwe’s
government.  Netafim of Tel Aviv won the Stockholm Industry Water Award
this week for pioneering drip and micro-irrigation technologies
that have improved water, energy and agricultural productivities
since starting in a Negev desert kibbutz in 1965.  The junior water prize was awarded to two students from
 Chile  who traveled to  Antarctica  to identify bacterial strains
with the potential to clean oil-contaminated waters by
metabolizing it in extremely low temperatures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Hackley in London at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kim McLaughlin at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net  