-- Europe Stocks Post Best Week Since April on Economic Data
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-09-13T14:55:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/europe-stocks-post-best-week-since-april-on-economic-data.html
(Corrects size of Stoxx 600 rally in third paragraph of
story published Sept. 6.)  European stocks  posted their biggest
weekly advance in more than four months as U.S. unemployment
remained at a four-year low and manufacturing growth in the
world’s two largest economies beat projections.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  surged 41 percent this week after Microsoft Corp.
agreed to buy its handset unit for 5.44 billion euros ($7.2
billion) and brokers upgraded their ratings on the shares.
 Alcatel-Lucent (ALU)  SA rose 22 percent amid speculation Nokia could
bid for its wireless business.  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  slumped 8
percent after saying full-year profit will probably be at the
lower end of its forecast.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index gained 3 percent to 306.10 this
week, the best weekly performance since April 26. The benchmark
slipped 0.8 percent in August, the second monthly loss in more
than a year. It has still rallied  11 percent  from this year’s
low on June 24 as the  European Central Bank  and the  Bank of
England  pledged to keep  interest rates  low.  “All the latest data coming out of the U.S. is quite
encouraging,”  David Hussey , who helps oversee $247 billion as
head of European equities at Manulife Asset Management, said by
phone from London. “The global economy is slowly healing,
though we’re still nowhere near being given the all clear. The
nub of it is whether the Fed will allow rates to appreciate more
slowly, but the place to be will be in equities.”  The VStoxx Index, a gauge of expected volatility in euro-area stocks based on options prices, slipped 14 percent this
week. National benchmark indexes advanced in all of the 18
western European markets except Iceland.  Germany ’s DAX and the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 added 2.1 percent, while France’s CAC 40 gained
2.9 percent.  U.S. Jobs  In the U.S., Labor Department figures showed the
 unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell to 7.3 percent in August,
the lowest since December 2008, even as employers added fewer
workers than economists had projected.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  meets on Sept. 17-18,
when policy makers will assess whether economic growth and the
labor market are strong enough to warrant slowing the pace of
its stimulus program. Sixty-five percent of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg Aug. 9-13 predicted the pace of bond purchases
would be scaled back at the September meeting.  Central banks in Europe and the U.K. held benchmark
interest rates at record lows this week and President  Mario Draghi  reiterated that the ECB would keep its policy
accommodative for an extended period.  U.S.  manufacturing  in August climbed to its highest level
since June 2011, while  services industries  expanded at the
fastest pace since December 2005, according to separate reports
from the  Institute for Supply Management . Both readings exceeded
economists’ estimates.  China Manufacturing  In  China , an  official measure  of manufacturing activity
rose to 51 in August from 50.3 in July, beating the median
economist projection. A  private index  compiled by  Markit
Economics  and HSBC Holdings Plc showed output expanded the most
in three years last month.  A gauge of  mining stocks  advanced for the first week in
three, posting the biggest gain of the 19 industry groups on the
Stoxx 600 as economic reports pointed to increasing demand from
China. Rio Tinto Group rose 6.3 percent, while ArcelorMittal SA
climbed 7.2 percent. Glencore Xstrata Plc added 4.3 percent.  Nokia surged 41 percent, the biggest jump since Bloomberg
began compiling the data in 1991. The deal with Microsoft
includes 3.79 billion euros for the devices unit and 1.65
billion euros for patents, the companies said on Sept. 2.
Brokers at Deutsche Bank AG, Credit Suisse Group AG, Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit and Exane BNP Paribas
upgraded their  ratings  on the stock after the deal.  Alcatel Rallies  Alcatel-Lucent rose 22 percent for its largest weekly rally
in 2 1/2 years. Analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Natixis
said speculation that Nokia could bid for Alcatel-Lucent’s
wireless unit drove shares higher. Chief Executive Officer
 Michel Combes  has pledged to sell assets to raise 1 billion
euros and reduce expenses at the Paris-based company.  Telecom Italia SpA jumped 15 percent. Italy’s largest phone
company may overhaul its ownership structure as controlling
shareholders are allowed to exercise a right to end a six-year
partnership this month, according to two people familiar with
the matter. The company has renewed contact with Egyptian
billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , whose bid to acquire a stake was
rejected last year, said the people, who asked not to be
identified discussing confidential deliberations.  Dufry AG gained 6.6 percent, its best week in more than a
year after the duty-free retailer said it won contracts to run
shops in Brazilian airports.  Ryanair Slides  Ryanair (RYA)  slipped 8 percent in London. The low-cost carrier
said that full-year  net income  may fall short of its forecast
range of 570 million euros to 600 million euros as a heat wave
prompted people to holiday at home and increased competition
depressed ticket prices.  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG lost 4.1 percent after investors
Telegraaf Media Groep NV, KKR & Co. and Permira Advisers LLP
sold stakes in the German broadcaster. The stock has still
rallied 44 percent so far this year.  Suedzucker AG slid 10 percent after Exane predicted that
the end of the “highly regulated” European sugar market will
cut earnings at the continent’s biggest supplier of the dietary
staple almost in half by 2018. The European Union will abolish
the quota system that supports prices by 2017 as part of a wider
reform of the  common agricultural policy .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in  London  at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  