-- European Stocks Climb to Three-Week High
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-09-06T16:15:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/european-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed.html
European  stocks  rose to a three-week
high, completing their biggest weekly gain since April, as
investors bet that any tapering of Federal Reserve stimulus will
be more gradual than previously anticipated.  RWE AG and E.ON SE rallied as a study by a German
government adviser fueled speculation of higher electricity
prices. Sonova Holding AG, the world’s biggest maker of hearing
aids, and Enel SpA,  Italy ’s biggest utility, each rallied at
least 3.5 percent after UBS AG upgraded the shares.
ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG dropped 1.1 percent as Telegraaf Media
Groep NV sold its stake in the German broadcaster.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.5 percent to 306.1 at
the close of trading in London, after swinging between gains and
losses at least 11 times. It rallied 3 percent this week,
snapping two weeks of losses, as the  European Central Bank 
affirmed its accommodative monetary policy and Chinese
manufacturing in August surpassed estimates.  “Investors are thinking tapering will be gradual and not
as steep as would be the case if payrolls data were stronger,”
said  Manish Singh , who helps oversee $2 billion as investment
manager at Crossbridge Capital in London. “The Fed is looking
to exit quantitative easing by mid-2014. The longer the Fed
takes to start tapering, the less time it has to complete it and
bigger the size of each installment. A small start in September
seems more sensible and on track.”  Russian Support  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  told reporters after the
Group of 20 summit that his country will help  Syria  if the U.S.
attacks that country.  Russia  is already helping Syria with arms
shipments, he said.  Earlier at the summit, Putin said he is doubtful of U.S.
evidence that Syria deployed a chemical-weapons attack against
its own citizens last month.  In the U.S., data showed that payrolls climbed at a slower-than-forecast pace in August, fueling speculation the Fed will
not rush into large-scale trimming of bond purchases.      The
gain of 169,000 workers last month followed a revised 104,000
increase in July that was smaller than initially estimated,
Labor Department figures showed in  Washington . The median
forecast of 96 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an
August increase of 180,000. Still, unemployment dropped to 7.3
percent, the lowest since December 2008, as more people left the
 labor force .  National benchmark indexes rose in 14 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 added 0.2 percent,
 France ’s CAC 40 climbed 1.1 percent and  Germany ’s DAX advanced
0.5 percent.  German Electricity  EON SE, Germany’s biggest utility, jumped 4.9 percent to
12.71 euros after a government adviser raised the possibility of
limits on subsidies for renewable energy. Germany must adopt
 Sweden ’s quota system for subsidies to contain rising costs of
solar and wind-power generation, the Monopolkommission said in a
study. The country currently offers uncapped subsidy payments to
renewable-energy projects.  RWE, the second-biggest, surged 6.4 percent to 23.28 euros,
its biggest jump since October 2011.  Sonova advanced 3.6 percent to 110 Swiss francs, its
highest price since April 16. UBS raised its rating on the
shares to buy from neutral, citing growth prospects in its
hearing-implants business.  Enel, Ericsson  Enel SpA rallied 4.7 percent to 2.61 euros, its biggest
gain in 13 months. UBS upgraded Enel to buy from neutral, saying
the company’s plans to maximize free  cash flow  by reducing costs
and capital expenditure may push up its price-to-earnings ratio
by about 30 percent.  Ericsson AB added 3.5 percent to 86.55 kronor, its highest
price since July 2011. Credit Suisse Group AG raised its
recommendation on the shares to outperform, similar to buy, from
neutral, saying the world’s largest maker of mobile-network
equipment will benefit from accelerating growth in the wireless-infrastructure market.  Air France-KLM Group climbed 4 percent to 6.16 euros as the
airline said the number of passengers increased 3 percent in
August from a year earlier.  A  gauge  of travel and leisure companies advanced 0.5
percent. Thomas Cook Group Plc rallied 6.3 percent to 147.4
pence and EasyJet Plc added 1.5 percent to 1,255 pence.  ProSiebenSat.1 slid 1.1 percent to 30.78 euros after TMG
said late yesterday sold its entire stake of 13.1 million
shares, or about 6 percent, in the company to institutions. KKR
& Co. and Permira Advisers LLP sold 25 million shares of
ProSiebenSat.1 earlier this week.  Voestalpine AG slid 1.3 percent to 34.05 euros. Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit downgraded  Austria ’s biggest
steelmaker to neutral from buy, citing a recent rally that has
led to limited potential for a price increase. The stock gained
37 percent in the four months through August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  