-- Everbright Errant China Trades Lead to $85 Million Monthly Loss
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-06T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/everbright-errant-china-trades-lead-to-85-million-monthly-loss.html
Everbright Securities Co. (601788)  posted an
unconsolidated net loss of 523 million  yuan  ($85 million) last
month after $3.8 billion in erroneous trading orders that roiled
China’s equity market and drew a record regulatory penalty.  The country’s seventh-largest brokerage by market value
incurred the unconsolidated loss, which doesn’t include
contributions from its subsidiaries, after disposing of assets
following the Aug. 16 error, Everbright said in a  statement  to
the  Shanghai Stock Exchange  yesterday. The figure is based on
preliminary data and hasn’t been audited, the company said.  The loss adds to woes at state-controlled Everbright, which
has been ordered by the China Securities Regulatory Commission
to pay a record 523 million yuan for  insider trading  in the
aftermath of the errors. The regulator, which is cracking down
on misconduct, barred the company from most proprietary trading
and banned four of its executives from the market for life.  Everbright sold exchange-traded funds and index futures on
Aug. 16 before telling the market it had made the erroneous buy
orders, the CSRC said Aug. 30. Investors in Guangzhou and
 Shanghai  are suing for damages, claiming they suffered losses.  Everbright has closed all of the short positions in index
futures it built to offset the erroneous orders, resulting in a
4.3 million-yuan loss, it  said  in a separate statement
yesterday.  The CSRC stopped accepting applications from Bosera Funds
for new products and businesses for six months after it found
that a  fund manager  was buying securities in advance of client
orders, the People’s Daily online reported yesterday, citing the
regulator. The company will take measures in response to the
CSRC penalty, it said in an e-mailed statement.  The watchdog’s investigation into the erroneous trades was
its second probe of Everbright this year, following an
investigation of alleged false information in an initial public
offering. Regulators are seeking to restore confidence in a
market whose benchmark index, the  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP) , has
slumped 25 percent in the past four years, the second-worst
performance of 45 developed and emerging-market equity gauges
tracked by Bloomberg after Greece’s.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  