-- Hewlett-Packard Gets Deadline for Autonomy Claims Review
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-09-06T20:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/hewlett-packard-gets-deadline-for-autonomy-claims-review-1-.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  was given a
January deadline to complete an internal review of investors’
securities fraud claims over its acquisition of Autonomy, which
contributed to an $8.8 billion writedown.  A review by a three-member committee of independent
directors must be completed, and the full board must vote on its
recommendations, by Jan. 17, U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer
in  San Francisco  today told company lawyers.  The judge put a shareholder lawsuit on hold until that date
over objections by attorneys for investors who claim the
committee is dragging its feet. Shareholders also said the
company’s assertion that Autonomy defrauded it means the board
is unlikely to join investor claims that Hewlett-Packard botched
the acquisition and misled them.  “I want the investigation to have been completed to the
point where the committee would make a recommendation to the
board, and I want the board to have acted on it,” Breyer said.  Hewlett-Packard is facing the shareholder lawsuit in
federal court, three similar suits in state court and eight
shareholder demands related to the Autonomy acquisition, said
Ralph Ferrara, a partner at Proskauer Rose LLP who is advising
the committee, which has met five times and is meeting again in
two weeks.  Scheduling Interviews  The committee has talked to 25 individuals, including
detailed discussions with those who might have been expected to
invoke their Fifth Amendment right not to testify, Ferrara said
at the hearing. None of those interviewed had invoked their
right, he said.  Another 30 individuals may be interviewed, including former
Autonomy executives, and some interviews should be finalized
within the next two weeks, he said.  “This is not a futile exercise. This is not a game,” Marc Wolinsky, Hewlett-Packard’s attorney, told the judge after
shareholder attorney Joseph Cotchett said the company had
investigated the Autonomy acquisition more than a year ago.
“The company has to weigh very serious alternatives.”  After the investigation is complete, the committee will
recommend whether to seek dismissal of investors’ claims or join
the lawsuit, according to court filings.  “I can guarantee you that on Jan. 20, you will receive a
motion to dismiss,” shareholder attorney Cotchett told Breyer.  Denied Claims  Hewlett-Packard, the largest personal computer maker,
acquired the U.K.-based software maker for $11 billion in 2010.
It alleges it was a victim of fraud because Autonomy overstated
its revenue growth and prospects. Autonomy’s ex-chief executive
officer,  Michael Lynch , has denied Hewlett-Packard’s claims and
said the company mishandled the purchase.  The U.S.  Justice Department  and the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Committee are investigating the company’s claims,
Hewlett-Packard has said.  The case is In re Hewlett-Packard Co. Shareholder
Derivative Litigation, 12-6003, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  