-- Texas to Use Perry Voter Maps in 2014 as Court Fight Goes on
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-09-06T22:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/texas-to-use-perry-voter-maps-in-2014-as-court-fight-goes-on-1-.html
Texas can use voter maps approved by
Governor  Rick Perry  this year to avoid delaying the state’s 2014
congressional elections, a federal court ruled.  The three-judge panel in  San Antonio  granted Texas the
right to use the 2013 maps on an interim basis only. The judges
added the latest maps to a 2011 lawsuit by voting-rights
activists challenging Texas election boundaries as biased
against minorities.  “A full, fair and final review of all issues before this
court cannot be completed prior to the upcoming deadlines for
the 2014 elections,” the judges said in the ruling. The
earliest deadlines in the 2014 election cycle are next week,
according to court records.  Opponents claim maps approved by Perry in June, shortly
after the U.S.  Supreme Court  struck down a key provision of the
Voting Rights Act, disenfranchise black and Hispanic voters.  Texas contends its Republican-controlled legislature is
legally permitted to draw election boundaries that disadvantage
political opponents.  “Texas has prevailed each time the redistricting
litigation has reached the Supreme Court and remains confident
that the legislature’s maps will be vindicated, either at the
San Antonio federal district court or at the U.S. Supreme Court,
if necessary,” Lauren Bean, a spokeswoman for the Texas
Attorney General’s office, said in a statement.  Texas gained four new congressional seats after the 2010
 U.S. census  found the state had added more than 4 million
residents. About 90 percent of the new residents are minorities,
who tend to vote more often for Democrats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Calkins in Houston at 
 lcalkins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  