-- Mexico Tax Plan Signals Belt-Tightening, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-09-06T20:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/mexico-tax-plan-signals-belt-tightening-jpmorgan-says.html
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto
may propose applying new food and soft-drink levies, boosting
income tax rates, tightening corporate tax rules and scrapping
gasoline subsidies, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts said.  The 2014 budget and tax proposal will attempt to increase
the government’s non-oil revenue while lightening the fiscal
burden on state-owned oil monopoly  Petroleos Mexicanos ,
JPMorgan’s Nur Cristiani, Gabriel Lozano and Steven Palacio said
in a report today. The plan is set to be unveiled Sept. 8.  Pena Nieto’s plan “will likely involve a heated discussion
as many of the matters under review are highly unpopular,” the
JPMorgan analysts said. “The government will need to carefully
balance tax collection with lower dependency on oil revenues and
current economic and consumption deceleration.”  Mexico’s central bank changed the backdrop for Pena Nieto’s
announcement with the second cut this year in its benchmark
 interest rate  after inflation decelerated to within its target
range and the economy expanded at the slowest pace since the
2009 recession. Lower rates may stimulate growth, easing the
sting of possible tax increases.  Stocks reversed an earlier decline on the surprise rate
cut, sending the  IPC index  up 0.6 percent at the close in  Mexico 
City. The gauge slid 5.3 percent in the month that ended
yesterday.  Inflation Effect  Pemex, which provides about a third of government revenue,
will be one focus of Pena Nieto’s plan, according to the
JPMorgan report, “Tighten Your Belts, Fiscal Reform Is
Coming.” The company has said it needs lower taxes and more
investment as it strives to reverse eight straight years of
production declines.  Changes in the tax mix may produce a “long-term” increase
in non-oil government revenue of as much as 2.8 percent of gross
domestic product, the New York-based bank said.  The plan may include an increase in the income tax rate for
higher earners to as much as 38 percent from the current level
of 30 percent, and changes to corporate tax law that raise the
effective rate, according to the JPMorgan analysts. Also
possible is the imposition of a tax on gasoline and an end to
subsidies for the fuel, the analysts said.  Food Tax  Pena Nieto may also propose applying a 4 percent value-added tax to food, which could gradually climb as high as 8
percent in subsequent years, JPMorgan said. Medicine and basic
foods would probably be exempt. A 20 percent excise tax on
beverages, excluding bottled water and milk, is also possible.  Under the plan, Mexico’s annual inflation rate may rise by
about 1.8 percentage points next year, plus a cumulative 0.5
percentage point over the following three years, according to
JPMorgan. Annual inflation rose to 3.54 percent in the 12 months
through mid-August, the government said on Aug. 22.  The need to boost tax receipts goes hand in hand with Pena
Nieto’s August proposal to allow more private investment in the
 energy industry .  “The fiscal bill will be equally important, as changes
aiming to liberalize the energy sector -- including a revision
of Pemex’s current fiscal regime -- would need to be accompanied
by changes aimed at boosting non-oil public revenues,” the
JPMorgan analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  