-- Mexico Peso Bonds Rally on Surprise Rate Cut; Currency Advances
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-09-06T22:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/mexico-s-peso-bonds-rally-after-central-bank-cuts-benchmark-rate.html
Mexico ’s peso-denominated bond
yields tumbled the most in three years after policy makers cut
the country’s key rate to a record low amid slowing growth in
Latin America’s second-biggest economy.  Yields on the bonds maturing in June 2015 fell 23 basis
points, or 0.23 percentage point, to 3.96 percent, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. It’s the biggest yield drop since July 2011
on a closing basis. The peso gained 1.7 percent to 13.1670 per
U.S. dollar in Mexico City.  Banco de Mexico cut the country’s key rate by 0.25
percentage point to 3.75 percent, surprising all but one of 20
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The reduction should help to
ease the recent slump in the country’s bonds, according to Bernd Berg, an emerging-markets strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG.
The yields had surged since May on speculation the U.S. Federal
Reserve is moving to curtail monetary stimulus that boosted
demand for emerging-market assets.  “The rate cut is anchoring expectations for Mexican yields
and provides a ceiling even if U.S. yields rise further,” Berg
wrote in an e-mailed response to questions. “The focus of the
central bank might have shifted to support growth.”  Mexico’s benchmark IPC stock index of 35 companies rose 0.6
percent, after falling as much as 0.3 before the decision.
Retailer El Puerto de Liverpool SAB rose 2.6 percent, while
billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s bank, Grupo Financiero  Inbursa SAB (GFINBURO) ,
rose 1.8 percent.  Economic Risks  The central bank, led by Governor Agustin Carstens, said in
a statement accompanying its decision that economic risks have
intensified and growth next year will be lower than the 3.2
percent to 4.2 percent forecast that it had reaffirmed on Aug.
7.  Banco de Mexico cut its growth forecast last month,
projecting the economy will expand as little as 2 percent this
year, half the pace of 2012 and the least in four years, amid
stagnant exports to the U.S. and a first-half drop in government
spending. The annual inflation rate fell in each of the past
three months to 3.47 percent in July, amid an easing in farm
price pressures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  