-- Fed Seen Paring QE to $75 Billion Pace This Month, Survey Shows
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s ,   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2013-09-06T19:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/fed-seen-paring-qe-to-75-billion-pace-this-month-survey-shows.html
A government report today showing
job growth was weaker than forecast hasn’t derailed economists’
expectations that the  Federal Reserve  this month will taper its
monthly bond buying by $10 billion, to $75 billion.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues will reduce
Treasury purchases to  $35 billion  from $45 billion while
maintaining mortgage-bond buying at  $40 billion , according to
the median of 34 responses today in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. That pace was unchanged from an Aug. 9-13 poll, 
as was a projection that the program will end in June.  Today’s Labor Department report showed employers added
169,000 workers to payrolls in August, less than the 180,000
forecast by economists in a Bloomberg survey, and July’s growth
was revised down to an 13-month low of 104,000. That won’t stop
the Fed from making the first reduction in purchases at the
Sept. 17-18 meeting, said  Dana Saporta , an economist at Credit
Suisse Group AG in  New York .  “The disappointing employment report makes it a tougher
call,” said Saporta, who estimates a cut to $65 billion. “It
passes the taper test, albeit not with flying colors, and it’s
good enough to keep the taper as the most likely scenario.”  Today’s jobs report, the last one Fed officials will see
before they meet, also showed the jobless  rate  unexpectedly
declined as more people left the  labor force . Unemployment
dropped to 7.3 percent, the lowest since December 2008, from 7.4
percent. The  participation rate  declined to 63.2 percent, the
lowest since August 1978.  Falling Joblessness  While the  unemployment rate  “fell for the wrong reasons,”
payroll growth wasn’t bleak enough to delay a tapering of bond
buying, according to  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at
Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut.  “It would have taken a much more radically weak number to
change their view,” said Stanley, who expects the Fed to pare
monthly purchases of mortgage bonds and Treasuries by $10
billion each. “They still feel like they want to be very
accommodative.”  Fed policy makers were “broadly comfortable” with
Bernanke’s plan to start reducing purchases if the economy
improves, minutes of their July meeting showed. A Bloomberg
survey of economists conducted Aug. 9-13 showed 65 percent of
respondents predicted a taper will be announced in September.  The Fed has pledged for more than a year to press on with
asset purchases until achieving sustainable gains in the labor
market. The central bank announced a third round of quantitative
easing in September 2012 to reduce longer-term  interest rates ,
stoke economic growth and combat unemployment.  Downward Revisions  Revisions to prior reports subtracted a total of 74,000
jobs from payrolls in June and July. The new figures lowered the
12-month average pace of monthly payroll growth to 183,830,
below the 185,330 average as of August 2012.  “Tapering is likely to begin this month, and the report is
not weak enough to alter that,” said Tanweer Akram, a senior
economist at ING Investment Management in Atlanta. “The  U.S.
economy  continues to add jobs, and that’s the central takeaway
from the report. The trend is continuing with gradual
improvement like we’ve seen in the past.”  Kansas City Fed President Esther George, who has
consistently dissented against additional stimulus, today called
for a tapering of $15 billion at this month’s meeting.  “An appropriate next step toward normalizing monetary
policy could be to reduce the pace of purchases from $85 billion
to something around $70 billion per month,” George said today
in prepared remarks for a speech in Omaha, Nebraska. Such a move
would be “appropriate” at the next meeting, and future
purchases could be split evenly between Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities.  ‘Open Mind’  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans , who has consistently
supported record stimulus, said today in a speech in Greenville,
South Carolina, that the central bank shouldn’t taper until
inflation and economic growth pick up. Evans, who votes on FOMC
policy this year, told reporters he has an “open mind” on
whether to taper buying this month.  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  and  Narayana Kocherlakota  of Minneapolis had differing views yesterday, with
Fisher saying policy makers must ensure their bond buying
doesn’t disrupt financial markets and Kocherlakota calling for
more accommodation. Fisher spoke in Dallas and Kocherlakota gave
a speech at the  University of Wisconsin  in La Crosse.  John Williams  of  San Francisco  said in Portland, Oregon,
this week that “clearly we are getting closer to meeting our
test of substantial improvement in the labor market.”  Lower Yields  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note has
climbed about a percentage point since Bernanke said on May 22
that the central bank could “take a step down in our pace of
purchases” in the “next few meetings.” Bernanke said June 19
policy makers may reduce the $85 billion pace this year and halt
it altogether by mid-2014.  Yields fell today after breaching 3 percent for the first
time in two years after the employment report. The 10-year yield
declined 0.09 percentage point to 2.90 percent at 1:28 p.m. in
New York. That’s up from 1.93 percent on May 21.  Former Fed Vice Chairman Don Kohn, whom President  Barack Obama  mentioned as a potential successor to Bernanke, said the
central bank is still likely to begin tapering its bond
purchases in September, though the odds have changed as a result
of today’s disappointing labor report.  Kohn assigned 60 percent odds of a reduction in the pace of
bond buying this month, down from 80 percent a few days ago,
according to a report from the Potomac Research Group in
Washington, where Kohn is a senior economic strategist. Kohn is
also a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington
and an external member of the Financial Policy Committee at the
 Bank of England .  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond mutual
fund, said the jobs report won’t step the Fed from tapering.  “Bernanke and company are committed to a taper,” Gross,
co-founder Pacific Investment Management Co., said in a
Bloomberg Radio interview with  Tom Keene . “It will be taper
lite as opposed to a strong tapering.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in Washington at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  