-- Fed’s Evans Wants to See Inflation Quicken Before QE Taper
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-09-06T14:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/fed-s-evans-wants-to-see-inflation-accelerate-before-tapering-qe.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans , who has consistently supported record
stimulus, said the Fed shouldn’t taper its $85 billion in
monthly bond buying until inflation and economic growth pick up.  “To start the wind-down, it will be best to have
confidence that the incoming data show that  economic growth 
gained traction during the third quarter of this year and that
the transitory factors that we think have held down inflation
really do turn out to be transitory,” Evans said today in a
speech in Greenville,  South Carolina .  Evans, a voter on policy this year, said to reporters he
has an “open mind” on whether the  Federal Open Market
Committee  should reduce bond purchases at its Sept. 17-18
meeting. The FOMC has pledged to press on with buying until the
job market shows signs of substantial gains.  U.S. employers added 169,000 jobs last month, less than
economists forecast, and the jobless rate fell to 7.3 percent
from 7.4 percent, a government report showed today in
 Washington . The data, which showed the lowest participation rate
since 1978, was “not as good as I expected,” Evans said.  Revisions to employment reports in the previous two months
subtracted a total of 74,000 jobs. The  unemployment rate  may
“flatten out” as discouraged workers return to the job market
amid signs of economic improvement, Evans said in response to
audience questions.  Jobless Rate  Still, U.S. employment has “definitely improved” from the
start of the current round of bond buying, when data showed the
unemployment rate was 8.1 percent and monthly payroll growth was
averaging about 135,000, he said.  “It is not going to make an enormous difference in our
asset purchase program if we were to do it at this meeting or
the next meeting,” Evans said to reporters after his speech,
referring to any reduction in bond buying. “In the big scheme
of things, I subscribe to the view it is the full size of the
program that is most important for achieving the beneficial
economic effects.”  The economic outlook will probably allow the Fed to reduce
asset purchases “later this year and subsequently wind down
these purchases over a couple of stages,” with a halt to the
program around mid-2014, Evans said in his speech.  The rise in market interest rates in recent months as Fed
officials publicly talked of slowing bond buying has prompted
“greater discipline” in markets, with less “exuberance” or
excessive risk taking, Evans said.  Yields Plunge  The benchmark U.S. Treasury 10-year yield plunged after
release of today’s employment report, declining 0.1 percentage
point to 2.89 percent at 10:14 a.m.  New York  time, Bloomberg
Bond Trader data showed. Before the report, the yield breached 3
percent for the first time in two years.  “The  U.S. economy  has a long way to go to return to
healthy normalcy,” Evans said before the jobs report was
released.  The Fed should press on with bond buying until unemployment
declines to about 7 percent, with forecasts of a continuing
decline; other labor market indicators show similar improvement;
and data elicit “considerable confidence” that inflation is
moving back toward 2 percent, Evans said.  The FOMC said in a July 31 statement that inflation
persistently below its 2 percent goal poses a risk to the
economy. The Fed’s preferred measure of inflation, the personal
consumption expenditures index, showed prices rising 1.4 percent
in the 12 months ended in July.  Data Thresholds  Policy will remain accommodative even after the Fed ends
quantitative easing, and short-term  interest rates  could remain
near zero after the unemployment rate falls to the FOMC’s policy
threshold, Evans said. The committee, drawing on an Evans
proposal, has pledged to keep the federal funds rate near zero
at least as long as unemployment exceeds 6.5 percent and the
outlook for inflation is no more than 2.5 percent.  “I can easily envision certain circumstances in which the
unemployment rate could go below 6 percent before we moved the
 funds rate  up,” he said.  Evans, 55, became president of the Chicago Fed in 2007
after serving as the bank’s director of research. The district
bank chief was also an early backer of the current round of bond
purchases, and he dissented twice in 2011 in favor of easier
policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  