-- FilmOn X Told to Stop Service in Win for TV Broadcasters
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-09-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/filmon-x-told-to-stop-service-in-win-for-tv-broadcasters.html
FilmOn X LLC was ordered to cease
service by a federal judge who said Fox Television Stations Inc.
and other broadcasters are likely to succeed in their lawsuit
claiming the online streaming company violates their copyrights.  “This court concludes that the Copyright Act forbids
FilmOn X from retransmitting plaintiff’s copyrighted programs
over the Internet,” U.S. District Judge Rosemary Collyer in
 Washington  wrote, granting the broadcasters request for a
preliminary injunction.  Collyer’s ruling yesterday adds to a legal landscape of
mixed rulings for FilmOn X and other streaming services,
including rival Aereo Inc., backed by  Barry Diller .  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New York  ruled against an
injunction that would have shut Aereo, which has a technology
similar to FilmOn X’s.  Lawyers for FilmOn X last month urged a San Francisco-based
federal appeals court to heed the New York ruling and overturn a
lower-court decision in  California  that granted broadcasters’
bid to shut down the service in the state.  If the California appeals panel upholds the lower-court
ruling, it will create a legal split between the two federal
circuits, which could lead to a Supreme Court review.  In her ruling, Collyer acknowledged the competing decisions
and said she found the California district judge’s opinion more
compelling.  Ryan Baker, an attorney for FilmOn X, said the company will
appeal Collyer’s ruling.  Insufficient Analysis  “I think Judge Collyer didn’t do sufficient analysis,”
Baker said yesterday in a phone interview. “I’m surprised she
ruled before even having a hearing.”  FilmOn X, based in  Beverly Hills  and founded by Alki David,
argued that it isn’t infringing copyrights by capturing
broadcasters’ over-the-air signals with its small remotely
located antennas and retransmitting the programming to its
customers.  Aereo and FilmOn X have both contended that because each of
their transmissions come from a single antenna to a single
subscriber, it’s a private performance under copyright law.  FilmOn X’s retransmissions occur “without the consent of
the affected broadcast stations or copyright owner” and are
thus illegal, according to Fox’s Washington complaint, which was
joined by other broadcasters including ABC, CBS and NBC.  The Washington case is Fox Television Stations Inc. v.
FilmOn X, 13-cv-00758, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  