-- Florida Tobacco Ruling Applies in Federal Cases
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-09-07T00:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/florida-tobacco-ruling-applies-in-federal-cases.html
Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) ’s  R.J.
Reynolds  Tobacco unit lost its bid to overturn jury verdicts
over smoking-related deaths after arguing that federal courts
shouldn’t apply a ruling by the  Florida   Supreme Court  that made
it easier for smokers to prove their cases.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Atlanta today upheld verdicts
for family members of two smokers who sued Reynolds, the No. 2
U.S. cigarette maker. In the ruling, a three-judge panel said
the 2006 Florida ruling applies to several thousand cases
against cigarette makers pending in federal courts in that
state.  Florida’s highest court in 2006 decertified a statewide
class action and threw out a $145 billion punitive damage
verdict against the industry. At the same time, the court
endorsed many jury findings in the case, including that the
companies were negligent, conspired to hide information about
the dangers of smoking and sold defective products. The court
also ruled that individual class members could sue and could use
the jury findings in their cases.  “We cannot say that the procedures, however novel, adopted
by the Supreme Court of Florida to manage thousands of these
suits under Florida law violated the federal right of R.J.
Reynolds to due process of law,” U.S. Circuit Judge William Pryor Jr. said in the opinion today.  Different Case  The Florida ruling is known as the Engle decision after
 Howard Engle , the lead plaintiff in the case filed in 1994 on
behalf of Florida smokers who were addicted to nicotine and
developed cancer,  heart disease  and other illnesses. Engle, a
Florida pediatrician, died in 2009.  The Florida Supreme Court this year reaffirmed its Engle
ruling in a different case.  “We are disappointed that the court rejected our
constitutional arguments,” Jeff Raborn, R.J. Reynolds vice
president and assistant general counsel, said in an e-mailed
statement. “It is both unfair and unprecedented to impose
liability unless and until some jury has actually decided all of
the facts on which liability depends.”  Raborn said the company is seeking a rehearing before the
entire court and will ask the U.S. Supreme Court to review the
case, if necessary.  In today’s decision, the federal appeals court affirmed a
$27,500 verdict for Alvin Walker, for the death of his father,
Albert Walker, and a $7,676 verdict for George Duke III, for the
death of his mother, Sarah Duke. The verdicts were sharply
reduced because the juries attributed 90 percent of the fault to
Walker and 75 percent to Duke.  Industry’s Argument  The industry has argued that the 2006 ruling improperly
restricts tobacco companies’ ability to defend themselves at
trial.  Companies including Reynolds and  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s  Philip
Morris USA , the biggest cigarette maker, have lost hundreds of
millions of dollars in judgments in post-Engle cases, many of
which are on appeal.  Altria had about 1,300 Engle cases pending against it in
federal court as of July 22, it said in a regulatory filing.
Reynolds said it had 2,014 federal Engle cases as of June 30.  The case is Walker v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., 12-13500,
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit
(Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  New York  at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  