-- Ford’s Mulally Says He’ll Stay CEO at Least Through 2014
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a   a n d   M a t t h e w   M i l l e r
-- 2013-09-06T20:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/ford-s-mulally-says-he-ll-stay-ceo-at-least-through-2014.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  Chief Executive
Officer  Alan Mulally  said he intends to stay as head of the
second-biggest U.S. carmaker through next year, following
reports that  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp. may seek to recruit him.  “I plan to continue to serve as Ford’s president and CEO
until at least the end of 2014,” to remain “absolutely laser
focused” on earnings growth, Mulally wrote in an e-mail to
 Bloomberg News  today. “I love serving Ford and will continue
serving Ford,” Mulally said in an interview from Berlin with
Anna Edwards on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown.”  Mulally, 68, has been talked about as a possible interim
CEO at Microsoft, technology-news website AllThingsD reported
Sept. 2. Microsoft CEO  Steve Ballmer , 57, said on Aug. 23 that
he plans to step down in the next 12 months, kicking off a
debate about his possible successor at the U.S. software maker.  Speculation on Ballmer’s potential replacement has focused
on  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  CEO Stephen Elop following the Finnish
manufacturer’s $7.2 billion agreement this month to sell its
mobile-phone unit to Microsoft. Elop is a former executive at
Microsoft, based in the Seattle suburb of Redmond, Washington,
and will return to the U.S. company following the deal.  Mark Martin , a spokesman for Microsoft, declined to
comment.  Ford shares slipped 1.7 percent to $17 at the close in New
York. Microsoft slid 0.3 percent to $31.15.  Boeing Experience  Mulally, who previously ran  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s commercial-aircraft unit, joined Ford in September 2006 and led the
automaker through the global credit crunch following the Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. collapse without tapping government
money. He’s in Berlin at the IFA technology show to present the
S-Max sport-utility vehicle prototype that features new
connectivity technologies including voice-control smartphone
applications and a heart-rate monitoring seat.  Ford has a partnership with Microsoft to develop the auto
manufacturer’s Sync system that integrates mobile devices into
the car and connects the vehicle to the Internet. Mulally has
been sharing advice with Ballmer on business transformation,
AllThingsD reported on July 9.  Mulally is the driving force behind the One Ford strategy
to use a limited number of vehicle platforms globally to save
costs. He has also balanced Ford’s vehicle lineup with more
small cars and a growing array of hybrid models to go along with
big F-Series pick-ups, the top-selling vehicle line  in the U.S.
for 36 years. His term has included eliminating jobs, reducing
labor costs and selling the European luxury brands Jaguar,  Land
Rover ,  Aston Martin  and Volvo.  To avoid bankruptcy, Ford borrowed $23.4 billion in late
2006. The automaker put up all major assets, including its blue
oval logo, as collateral. Ford recovered control of the assets
in May 2012.  Ford is still working to end losses in Europe that are
forecast to amount to $1.8 billion this year. The Dearborn,
Michigan-based carmaker is closing three plants in Europe by the
end of 2014 in an effort to break even in 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Miller in New York at 
 mtmiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  