-- George Calls for Fed QE Taper to $70 Billion Pace
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-09-06T22:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/george-calls-for-fed-to-cut-qe-to-70-billion-pace-this-month.html
Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank
President Esther George, who has consistently dissented against
additional stimulus, called for tapering the Fed’s $85 billion
in monthly bond buying at its Sept. 17-18 meeting while
cautioning that such reductions may prompt market volatility.  “An appropriate next step toward normalizing monetary
policy could be to reduce the pace of purchases from $85 billion
to something around $70 billion per month,” George said today
in a speech in Omaha,  Nebraska . Such a move would be
“appropriate” at the next meeting, and future purchases could
be “split evenly between” Treasuries and mortgage-backed
securities.  George voted this year against all five decisions by the
 Federal Open Market Committee  to press on with bond buying,
saying the program risks creating imbalances in the economy and
financial markets and pushing up long-term inflation
expectations. Fed officials, who next meet Sept. 17-18, are
debating when to start scaling back purchases they have pledged
to continue until the job market shows signs of substantial
improvement.  The FOMC’s “most hawkish member, who’s dissented at every
meeting in 2013, has outlined a path that’s very much in line
with the market forecast,” said Laura Rosner, a U.S. economist
at BNP Paribas SA in  New York , referring to George’s tapering
comments.  Revised Down  U.S. payrolls rose less than projected in August after
gains the prior two months were revised down, and the
 unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell to 7.3 percent from 7.4
percent as more people left the  labor force , a Labor Department
report showed today.  “Over the past 12 months, the unemployment rate has
dropped a bit more than one-half of a percentage point, and the
economy has added more than 2 million jobs,” said George. “At
this pace of improvement, the labor market is creating enough
jobs to continue bringing down the unemployment rate.”  The gain of 169,000 workers last month followed a revised
104,000 rise in July that was smaller than initially estimated,
according to Labor Department figures. The median forecast of 96
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an August increase
of 180,000.  The unemployment report hasn’t derailed economists’
expectations that the Fed this month will taper its bond buying
by $10 billion.  Unchanged Pace  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues will reduce
Treasury purchases to $35 billion from $45 billion while
maintaining mortgage-bond buying at $40 billion, according to
the median of 34 responses today in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. That pace was unchanged from an Aug. 9-13 poll, as
was a projection that the program will end in June.  George said in response to audience questions that some
labor market trends, including the participation rate, stem from
demographic changes that “monetary policy cannot directly
affect,” and reversing them could be “problematic.”  The benchmark U.S. Treasury 10-year yield fell after
release of today’s employment report, declining 0.06 percentage
point to 2.93 percent in New York, Bloomberg Bond Trader data
showed. Before the report, the yield breached 3 percent for the
first time in two years.  Bernanke said in a June 19 press conference that the Fed
may reduce the pace of purchases “later this year” and end
them entirely by mid-2014. San Francisco Fed President  John Williams , who doesn’t vote on policy this year, said Sept. 4
that he viewed “Bernanke’s timetable to still be the best
course forward.”  Record Stimulus  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans , a voter on policy this
year who has consistently supported record stimulus, said today
the Fed shouldn’t begin to taper until inflation and economic
growth pick up.  “To start the wind-down, it will be best to have
confidence that the incoming data show that economic growth
gained traction during the third quarter of this year and that
the transitory factors that we think have held down inflation
really do turn out to be transitory,” Evans said in a speech in
Greenville,  South Carolina .  Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota , who has
backed bond purchases, said yesterday the central bank’s outlook
for inflation and unemployment calls for more accommodation. He
doesn’t vote on policy this year.  Gradual Unwinding  George said she favors a gradual unwinding of the bond
purchases.  “As long as labor markets continue to heal and inflation
remains stable near its target, I would like to see the pace of
purchases gradually decline and brought to a close in the first
half of next year,” she said.  In addition to buying $40 billion a month in mortgage debt
and $45 billion a month in Treasuries, the Fed has pledged to
hold its  target interest rate  near zero at least as long as the
unemployment rate is above 6.5 percent, so long as the outlook
for inflation does not exceed 2.5 percent.  The Fed’s preferred measure of inflation, the personal
consumption expenditures index, showed prices rising 1.4 percent
in the 12 months ended in July.  George said she finds “little cause for alarm” in low
inflation readings. Prices will probably return toward the Fed’s
2 percent target, she said.  The Fed could provide more clarity on policy by providing a
median estimate of where interest rates will be in future years,
George said.  “The statement could include the median projected  interest
rate  from the FOMC projections for the end of 2015. This is
currently 1 percent,” she said.  George, 55, became chief of the Kansas City Fed in 2011,
and was previously the Fed district bank’s No. 2 official under
 Thomas Hoenig , now vice chairman of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. She joined the Kansas City Fed in 1982 and spent
much of her career in bank supervision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Omaha, Nebraska at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  