-- Glaxo-Theravance Lung Drug Shows Strong Efficacy, FDA Say
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-09-06T20:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/glaxo-theravance-lung-drug-shows-strong-efficacy-fda-say.html
  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  Theravance
Inc. (THRX) ’s combination treatment for a lung disease that is the No.
3 cause of death in the U.S. showed strong efficacy at both
doses the companies sought for approval, regulators said.  Studies found the once-daily inhaled therapy, called Anoro
Ellipta, works against chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder,
though missing data may limit the reliability of the findings,
Food and Drug Administration staff said today in a  report . An
advisory panel is scheduled to discuss the drug Sept. 10, and
the FDA is expected to decide by Dec. 18 on approval.  The companies, which won FDA clearance in May for Breo
Ellipta, are racing to get Anoro Ellipta to market before other
similar combination-ingredient drugs to treat COPD, an umbrella
term for emphysema and chronic bronchitis. Anoro is expected to
surpass $1 billion in sales in 2017, according to the average of
nine analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  While the FDA staff said the companies’ dosing for Anoro
was reasonable, the agency only asked advisers to consider the
lower dose sought for approval. Imbalances in data could also
suggest a greater cardiovascular risk for Anoro, FDA staff said.  “When you think about success for us, we really only need
one” of the doses, Michael Aguiar, chief financial officer at
South San Francisco-based Theravance, said in an interview. “If
we got one, that would be in line with our expectations. We did
not file two expecting to get two.”  Theravance rose 2.2 percent to $37.52 at 4 p.m. in  New York 
trading. Glaxo fell less than 1 percent to 1,651 pence at the
close of London trading.  Potential Competition  Anoro is a combination of vilanterol, a long-acting beta
agonist or LABA, and umeclidinium, a long-acting muscarinic
antagonist or LAMA, used with London-based Glaxo’s Ellipta
inhaler. Breo’s active ingredient is vilanterol.  Glaxo and Theravance tested Anoro against  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH’s Spiriva and vilanterol alone.
 Novartis AG (NOVN)  is researching a LABA/LAMA combination for COPD
called QVA149. Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis said in July
that it expects to file for U.S. approval at the end of 2014.  Forest Laboratories Inc. and Almirall SA, as well as
Boehringer Ingelheim and AstraZeneca Plc also are studying
LABA/LAMA combinations.  Dropout rates in Anoro studies on the drug’s effectiveness
ranged from 15 percent to 33 percent, FDA staff said. The
patients experienced improvement in lung function prior to their
withdrawal and the effect was assumed after the patient stopped
taking the therapy, an assumption staff called “implausible.”  Breo Sales  FDA staff also noticed imbalances in heart safety trials,
though they said the data didn’t show a clear link to Anoro or
specific doses.  The companies sought approval for Anoro containing 125
micrograms of umeclidinium as well as 62.5 micrograms of the
long-acting muscarinic antagonist. Both contain 25 micrograms of
vilanterol, the same amount of the ingredient in Breo.  Breo combines vilanterol with a corticosteroid to open the
airways and reduce inflammation. Anoro combines two
bronchodilators that open the airways through different
mechanisms. Breo is best for patients at risk of a worsening of
the disease while Anoro is expected to be used on patients who
complain they need to breathe better, Theravance Chief Executive
Officer Rick Winningham said in an interview.  Breo is expected by analysts to have sales of $1.6 billion
in 2017.  Royalty Payments  Theravance will earn tiered royalties of 6.5 percent to 10
percent on Anoro sales if the drug is approved, Aguiar said.  Theravance said last month it would split into two
companies at the end of this year or early 2014. One of the
companies will be called Royalty Management Co. and will focus
on the Glaxo collaboration, while the other, Theravance
Biopharma, will focus on developing drugs. Glaxo is the largest
shareholder of Theravance with 27 percent of the stock.  Winningham and Aguiar expect to lead both companies in the
beginning and end up long-term focusing on early-stage therapies
at Theravance Biopharma, Aguiar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  