-- Goldman Said in Talks With GIC, Blackstone on Rothesay Stakes
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-09-06T11:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/goldman-said-in-talks-with-gic-blackstone-on-rothesay-stakes.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is in talks
to sell a majority stake in its European insurance business to
 Singapore ’s GIC Pte and  Blackstone (BX)  Group LP, according to a
person with knowledge of the transaction.  Both GIC, Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund, and
Blackstone, the world’s biggest private-equity firm, may each
buy a stake of about 30 percent in Rothesay Life Ltd., a London-based insurer run by Goldman Sachs partner Addy Loudiadis, said
the person, who asked not to be identified because the
negotiations are private.  Massachusetts  Mutual Life Insurance
Co. may also buy 6 percent, the person said.  Goldman Sachs said last month that it expects to sell a
majority stake in Rothesay, which has about $9.66 billion in
assets, in the next 12 months as banks face more stringent
capital rules. Goldman Sachs sold about 80 percent of Global
Atlantic Financial Group, a reinsurance business in  Bermuda , to
institutions and high-net worth clients this year.  The Financial Times reported earlier today that Goldman
Sachs was set to sell almost two-thirds of the pensions insurer
to GIC, Blackstone and Mass. Mutual. Spokesmen for Goldman
Sachs, Rothesay, GIC and Blackstone declined to comment. A
spokesman for Mass. Mutual, based in Springfield, Massachusetts,
couldn’t be reached outside of normal business hours.  Mass. Mutual invested 100 million pounds ($156 million) in
subordinated debt in Rothesay this year. The transaction is some
way off from being completed, with an announcement unlikely
before the end of September, the person said.  Rothesay insures about 12 billion pounds of insurance
contracts for companies including IAG SA’s British Airways and
 General Motors Co. (GM) ’s U.K. division. Firms such as Rothesay
promise to pay pensions if retirees live beyond a certain age
and then use derivatives to try to hedge the risk. The insurer
typically receives a portion of the pension plan’s assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  