-- Goldman’s Schwartz Buys Manhattan Mansion for $14 Million
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-09-06T21:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/goldman-s-schwartz-buys-manhattan-mansion-for-14-million.html
Mark Schwartz , chairman of Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.’s Asia-Pacific operations, bought a rare free-standing mansion on  Manhattan ’s Upper West Side for $14 million.  The deal for the 12,000-square-foot (1,115-square-meter)
home on Riverside Drive closed Aug. 8, according to records made
public yesterday by New York City’s Department of Finance.  The  four-story  house at the corner of 107th Street is the
last fully detached single-family mansion in Manhattan,
according to the property listing by  Tod Mercy  of the Corcoran
Group brokerage. It was built in 1909 by William Tuthill, the
designer of  Carnegie Hall , and was commissioned by Morris
Schinasi, a Turkish tobacco baron.  Schwartz, 59, agreed to pay 3.7 percent more than the last
asking price of $13.5 million, according to property-listings
website StreetEasy.com.  The 12-bedroom, 11-bathroom house, surrounded by private
gardens and overlooking the  Hudson River , “is an exquisite
French Renaissance jewel box executed in pristine white marble,
boasting deep-green roof tiles and bronze grills on the
balconies and at the main entrance,” according to the Corcoran
listing.  Mercy, the broker, didn’t return a call seeking comment.
Schwartz, who is based in Beijing, didn’t immediately respond to
an e-mail after normal business hours.  Goldman Return  Schwartz left New York-based Goldman Sachs in 2001,
returning in June 2012. In the interim, he served as chief
executive officer of  Soros Fund Management  and later chairman of
MissionPoint Capital Partners, according to his  biography  on the
bank’s website.  Schwartz first joined Goldman Sachs’s investment-banking
unit in 1979 and became chairman of the Asia business and a
member of the company’s management committee in 1999, the same
year that Goldman Sachs went public.  The seller of the mansion was the estates of Hans and
Beverly Smit. Hans Smit was an emeritus professor at  Columbia
Law School  who died in January 2012 at the age of 84, according
to the university’s  website . His wife, Beverly Smit, a teacher
at the Spence School, died five weeks later, according to a
 notice  published in the New York Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  