-- Google, Select Brands, Dotcom: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-09-06T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/google-select-brands-dotcom-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility
didn’t act in good faith when it demanded patent royalties from
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  for use of video-compression and Wi-Fi
technology, a federal jury said Sept. 4.  The jury in Seattle acted in its first day of
deliberations. Microsoft was awarded about $14.5 million in
damages, the Seattle Times newspaper reported in a blog post.  The verdict could help the two companies resolve a dispute
over patent royalties for both fundamental technologies in
electronic devices and features that make them easier to use.
More broadly, the case is one front in a global debate on how to
handle patents that relate to technology included in industry
standards used by all manufacturers.  Microsoft claimed that Motorola Mobility acted unreasonably
by demanding royalties of 2.25 percent of the price of an Xbox
video-gaming system or a computer that runs on the Windows
operating system, and then threatening to get a court order
halting sales of the products if the money wasn’t paid.  Motorola Mobility said the October 2010 letters sent to
Microsoft were a common opening offer that it used in
negotiating patent licensing with other companies for years.
Rather than sitting down to negotiate a licensing agreement as
other companies do, Microsoft went to the courts, Motorola
Mobility said.  Microsoft has said the royalty demand would equal more than
$4 billion a year, a figure Motorola Mobility disputed.  U.S. District Judge James Robart, who presided over the
trial, determined in April that the appropriate royalty rate was
about a half-cent per unit for video-decoding technology and
3 1/2 cents for wireless technology. Microsoft said that would
equal about $1.8 million a year.  The issue for the jury was whether Motorola Mobility’s
actions were in keeping with the standards of good faith and
fair dealing. Robart, in pre-trial rulings, said Motorola
Mobility’s offers have to be made in good faith, though the
initial offer doesn’t have to be on fair terms as long as the
result is fair.  The case is Microsoft Corp. v. Motorola Mobility Inc., 10-cv-01823, U.S. District Court, Western District of Washington
( Seattle ).
ViaSat Files Second Patent Suit Against Space Systems/Loral  ViaSat Inc., a provider of satellite networks services,
filed a second patent lawsuit against MacDonald, Dettwiler &
Associates Ltd.’s Space Systems/Loral unit.  In the new complaint, filed yesterday in federal court in
San Diego, ViaSat claims that the Palo Alto, California-based
competitor infringes three patents relating to frequency use for
satellite communication.  In dispute are patents 8,213,929; 8,254,832 and 8,285,202.
ViaSat, based in Carlsbad,  California , claims that the high-capacity broadband satellites SS/L supplies to Hughes Network
Systems LLC infringe the patents.  SS/L was aware of the patents and a contract between the
companies specified that SS/L not file patent applications on
technology owned by ViaSat, according to complaint. ViaSat said
SS/L used the intellectual property to solicit and win a bid to
make a satellite for Hughes.  The company asked the court for an order barring
unauthorized use of its technology by SS/L, money damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs. Alleging the infringement
was done knowingly, ViaSat asked that damages be tripled.  SS/L didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment on the lawsuit.  ViaSat claimed in a suit filed in February 2012 that SS/L
infringed three other satellite-communications patents. A final
pretrial conference in that case is set for February, according
to the docket.  The new case is  ViaSat Inc. (VSAT)  v. Space Systems/Loral LLC, 13-cv-02074, U.S. District Court, Southern District of California
(San Diego). The previous case is ViaSat Inc. v. Space
Systems/Loral Inc., 12-cv-00260, same court.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  METL’s Agro Unit Wins Trademark Judgment Over ‘Poa’ Mark  A Tanzanian grain-milling company has lost its appeal of a
trademark-infringement judgment in a case brought by a unit of
the wholesale distributing company Mohammed Enterprises Tanzania
Ltd. of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, the Tanzania Daily News
 reported .  Salim Bakhresa & Co.  was appealing an infringement judgment
over its use of the word “Poa,” a trademark belonging to the
METL unit known as Agro Processing & Allied Products Ltd.,
according to the newspaper.  Agro registered the mark in March 2001, after which the
Bakresa company filed multiple applications to register marks
containing “Poa” and began using them even though the
registrations were rejected, the newspaper reported.  Bakresa was found to have infringed Agro’s marks and
ordered to pay more than 730 million shillings ($452,000), which
the company appealed unsuccessfully, according to the Tanzania
Daily News.  Japan to Modify Trademark Law to Register Sounds, Moving Images  Japan  is considering modifying its trademark law to enable
the registration of sounds, moving images and colors used in
commercials, the Yomimuri Shimbun  reported .  This is in response to U.S. requests that its trading
partners put in place a trademark registration system comparable
to what is used in the U.S., according to the newspaper.  Japan’s government will submit a bill revising the
trademark system to the legislature this year, the Yomimuri
Shimbun reported.  Presently, only items with a clearly defined visual form
can be registered as trademarks in Japan, according to Yomimuri
Shimbun.  Taiwan Bakery Faces Chinese Fines for Use of Unregistered Marks  Top Pot Bakery, a Taiwan-based baker, is facing potential
fines for not registering its trademarks in  China  while doing
business in  Shanghai , the Shanghai Daily  reported .  The company has two stores in Shanghai, and according to
the newspaper, can be fined as much as 20 percent of sales if
they are found using unregistered trademarks.  The store is also under investigation for allegedly failing
to supply proof to support some of the claims in its
advertisements, according to Shanghai Daily.  Companies that can’t prove the accuracy of their ads can be
fined as much as five times the cost of the advertising fees,
the newspaper reported.  Select Brands ‘Mumbo’ Mark Isn’t Generic, Appeals Board Says  Select Brands LLC , a Chicago-based food company,
successfully defended its “Mumbo” trademark for a spicy food
sauce against a  Washington  challenger who claimed the term was
generic and not entitled to registration, the Washington Post
 reported .  Arisha Jones  of Capital City Mumbo Sauce  had argued that
the term is generic and originated in Washington rather than
 Chicago , according to the Post.  An appeals board at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
disagreed, saying Jones failed to present evidence that the mark
had become generic, the newspaper reported.  Select Brands has asked Jones to quit using the term
“mumbo” for her sauce, and Jones has refused and is seeking
pro bono legal help for the appeal she plans to file of the
board’s ruling, according to the Post.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Sudoku Rules Provide Method of Watermarking Images Against Theft  Scientists in  Malaysia  have figured out a way to place a
digital watermark on an image in such a way that potential
infringers would find it impossible to scrape it away or crop it
out of the image, the Science Codex science news website
 reported .  They developed a system based on the permutation rules used
in the popular number-placement puzzle Sudoku, according to
Science Codex.  The formula is used to create a watermark -- which
identifies the source of the image -- so evenly distributed that
it can’t be be cropped out and potential unauthorized users can
be identified easily, Science Codex reported.  The scientists from the  Universiti Tun Hussein Onn Malaysia 
in Johor, Malaysia, learned that they can defeat more than 94
percent of the attempts to crop out the image, according to the
science news website.  Dotcom Resigns Mega Post, Will Concentrate on Extradition Fight  Kim Dotcom, the New Zealand-based Internet entrepreneur who
faces extradition to the U.S. in a criminal copyright case, has
resigned as a director of his Mega data-storage company, the New
Zealand Herald  reported .  Mega Chief Executive Officer Vikram Kumar said that Dotcom
resigned his post in order to put more of his energy into the
extradition case, to build a political party, and to develop a
new Web-based music service, according to the Herald.  Dotcom has filed papers with New Zealand’s Supreme Court
seeking to learn more about the evidence the U.S. government is
presenting in the extradition case, the Herald reported.  He has used Twitter Inc.’s short-messaging service to tell
followers that he plans to start a New Zealand political party
with possible elections at the end of 2014, the newspaper
reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  