-- Ibovespa Rises Most Among World’s Stock Benchmarks as OGX Surges
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-09-06T21:36:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/ibovespa-rises-most-among-world-s-stock-benchmarks-as-ogx-surges.html
The Ibovespa rose the most among the
world’s equity benchmarks as  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA 
rallied after the company exercised a put option requiring  Eike
Batista  to inject as much as $1 billion into the oil company.  Steelmaker  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA (CSNA3)  rose to a five-month high as commodities gained on speculation that the U.S.
will limit potential cuts to a stimulus program. Homebuilders
including  Rossi Residencial SA (RSID3)  advanced as traders pared bets
for higher borrowing costs in Brazil.  The Ibovespa jumped 2.7 percent to 53,749.42 at the close
in Sao Paulo, pushing the five-day gain to 7.5 percent, the
steepest weekly advance since October 2011. It earlier climbed
to 54,124.87, approaching a bull market after rising 20 percent
from its July 3 low. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI  index  of 24 raw
materials rose 1.1 percent after data showed U.S. employers
added 169,000 workers last month, compared with the median
forecast of 180,000 among economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The jobs report in the U.S. made it a bit less likely
that the Federal Reserve will start to reduce its bond-buying
program, and the Ibovespa is benefiting from that,” Luis Gustavo Pereira, head strategist at Futura Corretora brokerage,
said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “And there’s OGX,
which has a big weighting on the index. The company managed to
buy some time with this deal with Eike.”  OGX, the third-heaviest  weighted  stock on the Ibovespa,
jumped 27 percent to 52 centavos, contributing the most to the
gauge’s advance. Under terms of the option, Batista would pay
6.3 reais per share, according to a regulatory filing today.  CSN, Rossi  CSN added 0.3 percent to 9.19 reais. The real strengthened
0.8 percent to 2.3070 per dollar at 5:30 p.m. local time, paring
the drop in the last three months to 7.7 percent, the most among
16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Fuel and petrochemicals group Ultrapar Participacoes SA
added 1.6 percent to 54.20 reais after the stock was rated buy
in new coverage at Morgan Stanley.  Rossi climbed 2.1 reais to 2.98 reais. The BM&FBovespa Real
Estate Index added 2.1 percent. An increase in home construction
in  Brazil  will probably boost cash generation and profitability
in the industry, analysts at Bank of America Corp. including
Guilherme Vilazante wrote in a research note dated yesterday.  Brazilian swap rates, a gauge of expectations for interest-rate moves, fell on most contracts after a report from the
national statistics agency showed inflation slowed in August.
Consumer prices as measured by the  IPCA (BZPIIPCY)  index increased 6.09
percent from a year earlier, after rising 6.27 percent in July.  Bull Market  Brazil’s benchmark stock gauge approached a bull market
today as a plunge in the currency and signs of an economic
rebound in  China , Brazil’s biggest export market, fueled a rally
in commodity exporters. The index closed today 19 percent above
this year’s bear market  low  on July 3, or 18 percent in dollar
terms. That compares with an advance of 4.8 percent for the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  The Ibovespa last entered a bull market in January as
optimism about the economic outlook for Brazil pushed consumer
stocks higher, and sank back into a bear market in June as
growth disappointed and inflation topped the upper limit of the
government’s target.  Trading volume of stocks in Sao Paulo was 8.35 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.72 billion reais this year
through Sept. 4, according to data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  