-- Ibovespa Approaches Bull Market as Commodity Producers Rally
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-09-06T17:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/ibovespa-approaches-bull-market-as-commodity-producers-rally.html
The Ibovespa approached a  bull
market  as a plunge in the currency and signs of an economic
rebound in  China ,  Brazil ’s biggest export market, fueled a rally
in commodity exporters including Vale SA and Gerdau SA.  The gauge touched 54,112.60 in Sao Paulo trading, rising 20
percent from its July 3 low of 45,044.03. Vale, the heaviest-weighted stock on the benchmark, climbed 25 percent during the
period.  Eike Batista ’s OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA and
state-run oil producer Petroleo Brasileiro SA also were among
the biggest contributors to the index’s gain.  The real has dropped 7.1 percent in the past three months,
the most among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, lifting
exporters as it drives up the local-currency receipts on their
overseas sales. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw
materials has increased 5.5 percent in the same period as
manufacturing strengthened and imports increased in China.  “Lately we’ve seen China starting to stabilize, which
helps to inject a little positive sentiment back into the
Brazilian market,” Sean Lynch, the Omaha, Nebraska-based global
investment strategist for Wells Fargo Private Bank, said in a
phone interview. His firm oversees about $170 billion.  The  Ibovespa (IBOV)  led gains among the world’s 20 biggest equity
benchmarks today, rising 2.6 percent to 53,702.95 at 2:33 p.m.
local time with 49 of the 73 member stocks trading higher.  Brazil’s main stock index is the first among the biggest
 emerging markets  to approach a bull market this year. Russia’s
 Micex (INDEXCF)  entered a bull market Sept. 14, 2012, and has since lost
7.3 percent.  India ’s  Sensex (SENSEX)  is down 0.8 percent this year after
entering a bull market in 2012. China’s  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP) 
entered a bear market June 25 and has since gained 9.2 percent.  Slowing Inflation  Seven of nine raw-material companies on the Ibovespa
reported earnings that exceeded forecasts for the three months
ended in June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was
the first time that a majority of them beat estimates since the
second quarter of last year.  Signs that inflation is slowing have also helped to lure
investors to Brazilian equities, Lynch said. Data today from the
Rio de Janeiro-based national statistics agency showed that
consumer prices as measured by the IPCA increased 6.09 percent
in August from a year before after rising 6.27 percent in July.  OGX, Ibovespa’s  third-heaviest  weighted stock, rose the
most on the benchmark today, climbing 22 percent to 50 centavos
after calling Batista to buy $100 million of new shares and
saying it may request additional disbursals on a $1 billion  put
option  based on cash needs. The shares have climbed 28 percent
since the Ibovespa’s  bear market  low, reducing this year’s slump
to 88 percent.  Ibovespa Change  OGX’s turmoil and its influence over the Ibovespa’s
performance spurred BM&FBovespa SA to consider changing the
benchmark’s methodology and exclude any companies whose shares
trade for less than 1 real. While Batista’s oil producer is
among the five smallest companies on the Ibovespa, it remains as
one of the heaviest-weighted stocks on the index, since trading
volume is one of the main criteria to rank the measure’s
members.  The Ibovespa entered a bull market in January as optimism
about the economic outlook for Brazil pushed consumer stocks
higher, and sank back into a bear market in June as growth
disappointed and inflation topped the upper limit of the
government’s target.  Rossi Residencial SA (RSID3)  climbed 2.1 percent today to 2.98
reais, leading homebuilders higher, as traders pared bets for
higher borrowing costs in Brazil following the inflation report.
The BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index added 0.5 percent.  Brazil Growth  The Ibovespa, which is still down 12 percent this year, may
continue to rise as signs that economic expansion is
accelerating in Brazil add momentum to the advance spurred by
growth elsewhere in the world, said Luis Gustavo Pereira, the
head strategist at Futura Corretora brokerage.  “The external outlook has been the main driver behind the
Ibovespa gains in the past months, but economic data in Brazil
have also been better,” Pereira said in a phone interview from
 Sao Paulo .  Gross domestic product increased 1.5 percent in the second
quarter from the previous three-month period, the national
statistics agency said on Aug. 30. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg had forecast an expansion of 0.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  