-- Mileage Gains Using Ethanol Seen 20% Higher Than EPA Says
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-09-06T20:55:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/mileage-gains-using-ethanol-seen-20-higher-than-epa-says.html
A tweak to an automobile’s engine
software can improve by as much as 20 percent the estimated fuel
efficiency when using gasoline with ethanol or methanol,
according to a non-profit group pushing gasoline alternatives.  A  Fuel Freedom Foundation  study showed that setting the
engine to run at an optimal setting for the higher octane in so-called alcohol fuels can cut the  greenhouse gases  emitted on
average by 17 percent to 20 percent, making it better for the
environment than estimated by independent analysts and the
Environmental Protection Agency.  “Alcohol fuels are not getting a fair treatment,” Eyal
Aronoff, a founder of the non-profit group and co-author of the
study to be released soon, said in an interview. With the
correct analysis, “the greenhouse-gas emissions look really,
really appealing.”  Fuel Freedom is an independent non-profit based in  Irvine ,
 California , that doesn’t have financial ties to the ethanol
industry. It advocates for policies to build a distribution
system for alternatives to gasoline in order to cut drivers’
costs and spur economic growth.  The EPA bases its mileage estimates on the best available
science, and if a new, credible study contains relevant
information, the agency will consider its findings, according to
a statement in response to questions about Aronoff’s study.  Renewables Mandate  Under the Renewable Fuel Standard, passed by Congress in
2007, refiners such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  must use a certain
amount of renewable fuel each year, with the contribution tied
to their share of the fuel market. The EPA and renewable-fuel
producers say it spurs production of domestic fuels and cuts
greenhouse-gas emissions by reducing use of gasoline or diesel.  The energy content in a gallon of pure ethanol is about 33
percent less than that in gasoline,  according  to the U.S. Energy
Information Administration.  In analyses performed by the EPA to analyze the emissions
for corn-based ethanol, the greenhouse-gas emissions are close
to that of gasoline, or maybe greater depending on how the fuel
is made and what assumptions are used.  “EPA’s conclusion was that there were opportunities for
ethanol from an efficient facility to be a little bit cleaner
than gasoline,” Jeremy Martin, an analyst on biofuels at the
Union of Concerned Scientists in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  Cropland, Forests  Emissions estimates must account for any reductions tied to
carbon that’s absorbed by cropland and forests, according to
Martin’s group. Environmental groups such as the  Natural
Resources Defense Council , citing the role of crops and forests,
question the benefit of substituting corn-based ethanol for
gasoline. Groups such as Friends of the Earth say the renewable
fuel mandate should be scrapped.  Refiners are also fighting the renewable fuels standard,
and the  American Petroleum Institute  has argued to Congress that
ethanol provides no greenhouse-gas benefit to gasoline.  “It’s true that you can offset the energy-content loss
with a higher-compression engine, but it’s not because of
anything unique to ethanol,”  Patrick Kelly , senior policy
adviser at the American Petroleum Institute, said in an
interview. “It’s the octane that ethanol delivers.”  Aronoff, who co-founded Quest Software Inc. before it was
sold to  Dell Inc. (DELL) , says that’s the point. Alcohol fuels are a
way to cheaply deliver higher octane, and adjusting engines to
run most efficiently when using those fuel blends could boost
efficiency and led to more miles per gallon.  “The energy content of fuel is what it is,” Aronoff said
in an interview. “But if you program the car to run on
methanol, you can get better conversion efficiency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  