-- Indian Equities Head for Biggest Weekly Advance in Two Months
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-09-06T07:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/indian-equities-head-for-biggest-weekly-advance-in-two-months.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stocks advanced, with the
benchmark index set for its biggest weekly rally in two months.
Financial companies and capital-goods makers led the gains.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the nation’s second-biggest lender by
market value, surged 5 percent and was poised for its best week
in more than four years. Mortgage provider  Housing Development
Finance Corp. (HDFC)  added 1.7 percent. Engineering company  Larsen &
Toubro Ltd. (LT)  and  Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) , the country’s
biggest power-equipment producer, added more than 2 percent
each. The rupee climbed for the third day.  The S&P BSE Sensex rose 1.2 percent to 19,202.83 at 12:30
p.m. in Mumbai, taking this week’s gain to 3.1 percent. Shares
surged yesterday after the  Reserve Bank  of India Governor
Raghuram Rajan announced plans to bolster the financial sector
and support the rupee, which has slid 16 percent this year. The
RBI said after the markets closed that it eased rules for some
equity purchases by foreign investors.  “There is optimism due to positive sentiments by the new
RBI governor,”  Gajendra Nagpal , chief executive officer at New
Delhi-based Unicon Financial Intermediaries Ltd., said by phone
today. “The rupee is strengthening and investors are now more
convinced about the durability of the rally in equities.”  Rajan announced plans on Sept. 4 to make it easier for
banks to open branches and lend to non-state sectors of the
economy, measures that JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts say will
have a “major long-term impact” on bank profits. The RBI will
also provide swaps for banks’ foreign-currency deposits that
Bank of America Merrill Lynch estimates will boost the nation’s
reserves by $10 billion. The S&P BSE India Bankex of lenders
jumped by the most since May 2009 yesterday.  ICICI, Larsen  ICICI Bank jumped 5.1 percent, extending this week’s rally
to 17 percent, the most among Sensex companies. The 13-member
Bankex added 1.6 percent, extending yesterday’s 9.3 percent
surge. Housing Development rose 1.8 percent to 763.55 rupees.  Larsen gained 2.4 percent to 745.1 rupees. Bharat Heavy
Electricals added 2.8 percent to 138.5 rupees, putting the S&P
BSE India Capital Goods Index on course for the highest close in
more than two weeks.  The Sensex has retreated 1.2 percent this year in local
currency terms and is  valued  at 13.7 times projected 12-month
earnings, compared with the five-year average of 14.1 times,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. It has lost 18 percent this
year in dollar terms. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index trades at
10.2 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  on the National Stock Exchange increased 1.3
percent to 5,663. India VIX, which gauges the cost of protection
against losses in the Nifty, fell 2.4 percent.  International investors  bought a net $15.3 million of
Indian shares on Sept. 4, data from the regulator show. That
boosted this year’s net inflow to $11.4 billion, the second-highest among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  