-- India Gets Expanded $50 Billion Japan Swap Line After Rupee Drop
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2013-09-06T11:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/india-gets-expanded-50-billion-japan-swap-line-after-rupee-drop.html
India  reached an agreement to more
than triple its bilateral currency-swap line with  Japan  as Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government seeks to stem a record
slide in the rupee.  The size of the swap agreement was increased to $50 billion
from $15 billion, Japan’s Ministry of Finance said in a
statement today. The earlier accord was sealed in December 2011.  The increased swap line is an additional support measure
for the Indian rupee as policy makers battle its decline amid
foreign-capital flight from emerging-market assets. The currency
is poised to end this week stronger for the first time in four,
as central bank Governor Raghuram Rajan makes it more attractive
for lenders to woo dollar deposits.  “It is a confidence-boosting measure and provides comfort
that the government is putting in place a second line of
defense,” said Prasanna Ananthasubramanian, an economist at
ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Ltd. in Mumbai. “But the
ideal outcome would be that we don’t need to tap this and money
comes through normal channels.”  The rupee advanced 1.6 percent to 65.0525 per dollar as of
3:30 p.m. in Mumbai. The currency touched an all-time low of
68.8450 on Aug. 28.  In his first briefing since taking office as  Reserve Bank 
of India Governor on Sept. 4, Rajan announced a plan to provide
concessional swaps for banks’ foreign-currency deposits. That
move will boost the central bank’s reserves by $10 billion,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  The currency-swap expansion comes a week after Japan
extended its $12 billion line with  Indonesia , and the Southeast
Asian central bank said today there are discussions for
“similar cooperation” with others in the region. Indonesia has
also been hurt in the recent market turmoil as the prospect of
reduced U.S. monetary stimulus fueled a sell-off in emerging-nation stocks and currencies. The rupiah is  Asia ’s worst-performing currency this quarter.  India’s central bank has been forced to tap its reserves to
defend the rupee that has also been hurt by a current-account
deficit and slowing domestic growth. The country’s reserves have
dropped about 13 percent since a 2011 peak and are equivalent to
less than seven months of imports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  