-- Indonesia’s Foreign Reserves Hold Near Lowest Level Since 2010
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-09-06T11:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/indonesia-s-foreign-reserves-hold-near-lowest-level-since-2010.html
Indonesia ’s  foreign-exchange
reserves  held near a more than two-year low in August, limiting
the central bank’s capacity to shore up the declining rupiah as
it pursues bilateral swap agreements with regional counterparts.  The country’s reserves were $93 billion last month, little
changed from $92.7 billion in July,  Bank Indonesia  spokesman
Difi Johansyah said in a statement in Jakarta today. The July
reserves were the smallest since October 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Indonesia’s reserves remain sufficient to face global
uncertainties and volatility in the balance of payments, the
central bank said today. The slump in the rupiah,  Asia ’s worst-performing currency this quarter, has added to inflationary
pressures and prompted policy makers to raise borrowing costs to
stem a slide that was exacerbated by the sell-off in emerging-nation stocks and currencies.  “We believe policy makers have anticipated this situation
and need to activate bilateral swap agreements with other
central banks, not only with  Japan , so that Indonesia has a
second line of defense,”  Anton Gunawan , chief economist at PT
Bank Danamon Indonesia and a candidate for the No. 2 job at the
monetary authority, said before the data.  The rupiah fell 0.5 percent to 11,175 per dollar as of 4:53
p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks. It has
slid more than 11 percent this quarter.  Bank Indonesia continues to stabilize the rupiah in the
market, Deputy Governor Perry Warjiyo said today. The central
bank has said it is allowing the rupiah to find a “new
equilibrium” even as it supports the currency to reduce its
volatility. Foreign-exchange reserves have fallen from $112.8
billion in December 2012.  Further Volatility  Bank Indonesia anticipates further volatility in
international markets, which is why it extended a swap agreement
with the  Bank of Japan , it said in today’s statement. The
central bank last week extended a bilateral swap deal with Japan
valued at $12 billion that will allow the two to borrow from
each other’s foreign-exchange reserves.  It is in talks for similar cooperation with other central
banks in the region, Bank Indonesia said today. The monetary
authority unexpectedly raised its  reference rate  by half a
percentage point in a meeting Aug. 29, two weeks ahead of the
next scheduled policy review.  The August foreign reserves position is equivalent to five
months of imports and government external debt payments, Bank
Indonesia said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  