-- Iran Bazaar, Sudan Clinic Win $1 Million Aga Khan Award
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-09-06T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/iran-bazaar-sudan-clinic-win-1-million-aga-khan-award.html
A heart clinic in  Sudan , a bazaar in
Iran, and an Islamic cemetery in  Austria  were three of the five
winners of the 2013 Aga Khan Award for Architecture, worth a
total of $1 million and announced in Lisbon today.  The Salam Centre for Cardiac Surgery in Khartoum is a
modern 63-bed hospital with three operating theaters, where
staff members are housed in repurposed transport containers. The
project was designed by Studio Tamassociati (based in  Venice ,
 Italy ).  The jury praised “a responsible, efficient and inspiring
model of health services in a society marred by war, internal
conflict, and lack of basic needs like water and sanitation.”  The Award for Architecture, started in 1977 by the Aga
Khan, is handed out every three years. It rewards projects of
all sizes that are well designed and help boost quality of life.
Winners aren’t always architects: They can be city authorities,
clients, builders, engineers and master craftsmen.  Another winner was the restoration of the Bazaar in Tabriz,
 Iran . Dating back to the 10th century and added in 2010 to the
World Heritage List, the Bazaar had started crumbling in recent
years. The restoration has been funded both by the government
and by the merchants working in the Bazaar.  The jury also recognized the Islamic Cemetery in Altach,
Austria -- designed by Bernardo Bader -- for allowing the local
Muslim community to bury their dead nearby rather than having to
send them back to their country of origin.  The nine-member jury included architects David Adjaye and
Wang Shu (founder of the Amateur Architecture Studio in
Hangzhou, China).  The restoration of the historic center of Birzeit in the 
West Bank was another winner. That project was led by the 
Ramallah-based Riwaq architectural conservation center. Also 
recognized was the Rabat-Sale Urban Infrastructure Project in 
 Morocco , led by Marc Mimram Architectes.  Muse highlights include New York and  London   weekend guides ;
 Lewis Lapham  on history;  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater; and  Greg
Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on movies.  To contact the writer of this story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 