-- Isagen Posts Weekly Drop on Stake Sale Opposition: Bogota Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2013-09-06T18:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/isagen-posts-weekly-drop-on-stake-sale-opposition-bogota-mover.html
Isagen SA (ISAGEN)  posted its first weekly
decline since the government said in July that it was seeking to
sell its majority stake in the hydropower producer, dropping on
concern political opposition may delay a deal.  The  shares  slid 2.8 percent this week as of 12:40 p.m. in
Bogota and were unchanged at 2,980 pesos today. The decline for
the week was the second-worst performance on the  Colcap index, 
which was down 0.5 percent today.  Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said July 29 that the
government is seeking to sell its 57.66 percent stake in Isagen
for a minimum of 2,850 pesos a share, valuing the holding at
least 4.5 trillion pesos ($2.3 billion). Isagen said yesterday
in a regulatory filing that an administration tribunal notified
the government of a demand by former President  Alvaro Uribe  to
halt the sale and that it has 10 days to answer.  “There have been so many politicized statements trying to
block the sale that people may be exiting their bets or thinking
the process will be delayed,” Jaime Pedroza, an analyst at
Credicorp Capital’s Colombia unit in Bogota, said in a telephone
interview. “Some investors were counting on the process to be
quick and betting that the government would get the bidders it
wanted competing for the stake.”  Colombia’s President  Juan Manuel Santos  appointed Amylkar
Acosta as mines and energy minister yesterday. Acosta is an
 Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  board member who published an opinion column
opposing the sale on his website last month.  Acosta’s appointment may be seen as “part of that
political risk,” Pedroza said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  