-- It’s Too Soon for the Fed to Start Tapering
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-06T17:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/it-s-too-soon-for-the-fed-to-start-tapering.html
If the  Federal Reserve  needed
further evidence that it should prolong its efforts to stimulate
the  U.S. economy ,  today’s jobs report  provides it.  In mid-June, when the Fed set out plans to take its foot
off the gas pedal by “tapering” its monthly bond purchases,
the economy appeared to be on an upward trajectory. Employers
were adding jobs at an accelerating pace, the ranks of the long-term unemployed were thinning, and the housing market was
showing signs of life.  Now the encouraging spring is giving way to yet another
disappointing fall. The Labor Department says monthly growth in
nonfarm payrolls averaged a mere 148,000 over the past three
months -- barely enough to achieve any significant reduction in
the  unemployment rate . The number of people who have been
unemployed for more than six months ticked up again in August,
renewing the threat that loss of skills and motivation will do
permanent damage to the country’s productive capacity.  Meanwhile, the increase in  interest rates  triggered by the
Fed’s tapering plans has cast doubt on the housing recovery.
Mortgage applications for home purchase are down 9 percent since
the end of May, according the  Mortgage Bankers Association . New
building permits for private housing slipped 3 percent from May
to July.  In short, the risks that a smaller Fed stimulus will set
back the recovery have grown. This is particularly true in view
of the impending congressional battles over the U.S. debt
ceiling (which  could be reached  by mid-October) and federal
spending (which must be extended by the end of the fiscal year
on Sept. 30) -- and their potential confidence-killing effects.  What, then, of the risk that added stimulus will stoke
runaway inflation or create another financial bubble? According
to the Fed’s preferred measure of inflation, the core price
index for personal consumption expenditures, consumer prices are
rising at an annual rate of only 1.2 percent, well below the
central bank’s target of 2 percent. As regards froth in the
market, the Fed in June largely disabused investors of the
notion that the central bank will keep propping up asset prices
indefinitely.  The Fed has always clearly stated that its stimulus efforts
will depend on the changing outlook for the economy. When
officials meet this month to set policy, we hope they’ll
recognize that the outlook calls for a delay in tapering.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 