-- Japan’s Abe Tells China’s Xi Diplomatic Ties Should Be Repaired
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-09-06T04:41:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/japan-s-abe-tells-china-s-xi-diplomatic-ties-should-be-repaired.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
told Chinese President Xi Jinping that the “mutually beneficial
strategic” relationship between their countries should be
revived, the top government spokesman said.  Abe shook hands with Xi and exchanged greetings followed by
a brief discussion before a plenary session of the Group of 20
meeting in St Petersburg, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga
told reporters. The informal chat yesterday was the first
meeting between the two leaders.  Next week marks the first anniversary of  Japan ’s purchase
of three uninhabited islands disputed with  China . The move
sparked rioting in China that damaged Japanese businesses and
trade ties between  Asia ’s two largest economies.  “It is highly significant that the leaders of Japan and
China spoke for the first time since taking office,” Suga said,
adding that he believed the gap between the two countries was
narrowing. He declined to give details of the conversation.  ‘Grave Difficulties’  Japanese and Chinese ships have been tailing one another
for months through waters near the islands known as Senkaku in
Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese, and no formal bilateral summit
has been held for more than a year.  China’s official Xinhua news agency said Xi told Abe that
relations faced “grave difficulties” and Japan should
“correctly deal with such sensitive issues as the Diaoyu
Islands and history.”  Abe also spoke for a few minutes with South Korean
President Park Geun Hye, Suga said. Japan’s ties with  South
Korea  have been chilled by a territorial dispute over another
group of islands as well as by lingering resentment over Japan’s
invasion and occupation of countries in the region during the
first half of the 20th century.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  