-- Junk Sales Sprint Toward Record in Rate Refuge: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2013-09-06T15:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/junk-sales-sprint-toward-record-in-rate-refuge-credit-markets.html
Junk-bond  sales  are extending their
lead over last year’s record pace in the U.S. as investors snap
up debt that’s been beating investment-grade securities for the
longest stretch in more than a decade.  Sprint Corp. (S)  raised $6.5 billion this week in the largest
speculative-grade deal since 2008, leading $249.4 billion of
issuance that is $44.8 billion  ahead  of offerings by this time
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap has
more than doubled over the past four months, putting sales on
track to surpass 2012’s unprecedented  $353.1 billion .  Junk bonds , which have returned more than high-grade notes
for seven straight months, are getting a boost from buyers
seeking securities that offer better protection from rising
interest rates. The demand allowed Sprint to sell 63 percent
more debt than the minimum target it set before the offering, a
person with knowledge of the offering said Sept. 4.  “It’s a classic defensive play against rising interest
rates,” Anthony Valeri, a market strategist in  San Diego  with
LPL Financial Corp., which oversees $350 billion, wrote in an e-mail. “It’s fared better than most fixed-income sectors and
certainly better than investment grade.”  Rate Surge  Junk bonds have outperformed investment-grade debt since
February, the longest stretch since the seven months ended July
1999, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. The
securities have returned 0.84 percent during the period,
compared with a 4.48 percent loss for high-grade notes.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries climbed yesterday to the
highest since 2011 as a report showing fewer first-time jobless
claims than analysts had forecast bolstered speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will cut its unprecedented stimulus measures
this month.  The benchmark borrowing rate has surged 1.4 percentage
points to 2.99 percent since the start of May as Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  outlined a plan in which the central bank could
start curtailing $85 billion in monthly bond buying later this
year and end them around mid-2014 if growth is in line with the
central bank’s estimates.  “There is a certain rush by issuers to raise debt before
rates head too much higher,” Valeri wrote. “But all-in
financing costs are still cheap even after the rise in rates.”  Credit Benchmarks  Elsewhere in credit markets, Verizon Communications Inc. is
meeting lenders Sept. 12 to discuss $14 billion in loans to help
finance its purchase of a stake in its wireless unit from
 Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   Standard & Poor’s  lifted Ford Motor Co.’s
credit rating to investment grade and raised General Motors
Co.’s outlook to positive from stable. The cost to protect
against losses on corporate bonds in the U.S. declined the most
in two weeks.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 1.6
basis points to 82 basis points as of 11:42 a.m. in  New York ,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index , tied to 125
companies with investment-grade ratings, declined 1 to 104.5.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  GE Bonds  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, rose 0.9 basis point to 16 basis points. The
gauge typically widens when investors seek the perceived safety
of  government securities  and narrows as they favor assets such
as corporate bonds.  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric Co.
are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, accounting for 3.8 percent of the
volume of dealer trades of $1 million or more, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  The Verizon debt will consist of $12 billion of term loans,
including a $6 billion portion due in three years and a $6
billion piece maturing in five, according to a person with
knowledge of the transaction, who asked not to be identified,
citing a lack of authorization to speak publicly. The financing
also includes a $2 billion revolving  credit line .  Verizon Bonds  Verizon (VZ) , buying Vodafone’s Verizon Wireless stake for $130
billion to gain full control of the carrier, is seeking a mix of
loans and bonds to replace a $61 billion bridge financing
commitment it got from JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America
Corp., Barclays Plc and Morgan Stanley, Bloomberg data show.  New York-based Verizon is also planning to meet with bond
investors in  Europe  and the U.S. next week to pitch as much as
$50 billion of debt to help repay the bridge financing.  Ford’s credit rating was raised to BBB- from BB+ by S&P,
marking the first time since 2005 the second-biggest U.S.
automaker has investment-grade rankings from all three major
credit graders. Moody’s moved Ford to an equivalent Baa2 in May
2012, a month after Fitch lifted its rating to BBB-.  The change in GM’s outlook by S&P is a sign the company is
more likely to boost the largest U.S. automaker to investment
grade. GM’s corporate credit rating from S&P is BB+, the highest
non-investment grade.  Sprint Deal  Speculative-grade offerings this year are 21.9 percent
ahead of the $204.6 billion issued in the similar period in
2012, Bloomberg data show. Sales have accelerated since the end
of April, when offerings outpaced last year by 18 percent, or
$21.8 billion.  Sprint on Sept. 4 issued $4.25 billion of 7.875 percent,
10-year notes to yield 498 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries and $2.25 billion of 7.25 percent, eight-year debt at a spread of 466 basis points, Bloomberg data show.
The sale was the largest high-yield offering since June 2008,
when Intelsat SA sold $7.1 billion of bonds through three units.  The size of Sprint’s sale was earlier set at a minimum of
$4 billion, according to the person with knowledge of the
transaction, who asked not to be identified citing lack of
authorization to speak publicly.  Confidence Vote  “It shows the power of an attractively priced name in the
high-yield market,” Margie Patel, a  money manager  at  Wells
Fargo & Co . in  Boston , said in a telephone interview. “It’s
sort of a vote of confidence on the part of the high-yield
market on the credit.”  While average junk-bond yields in the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Index have climbed to 6.89 percent
from a record low 5.98 on May 9, they’re still below a 2012
average of 7.5 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt instead of
similar-maturity Treasuries has narrowed to 459 basis points
from an average of 606 basis points in 2012, the index data
show. The spreads are up from this year’s low of 423 basis
points in May.  “Rates are still low by historical levels and that’s
incentive for issuers to sell the paper,”  Martin Fridson , the
chief executive officer of New York-based FridsonVision LLC, a
research firm that specializes in high-yield debt, said in a
telephone interview. “Issuers are looking to get sales done
now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  