-- Natural Gas Futures Fall in Survey as Seasonal Slump Cuts Demand
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-09-06T11:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/natural-gas-futures-fall-in-survey-as-seasonal-slump-cuts-demand.html
Natural gas futures may decline next
week on speculation that a seasonal slump will limit demand for
the power-plant fuel.  Five of 12 analysts, or 42 percent, predicted that futures
will fall on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through Sept. 13.
Four, or 33 percent, said gas will be little changed and three
predicted prices will advance. Last week, 47 percent of
participants said gas would decline.  The Northeast will see a push of cooler air through Sept. 9
that will clip the mid-Atlantic states and the Midwest,
according to Commodity Weather Group LLC. The Bethesda-based
forecaster said seasonal weather in  Texas  next week will spread
to the east and west coasts from Sept. 15 through Sept. 19. An
unusually hot end to August helped reduce the pace of gas
stockpiling in recent weeks.  “We see prices coming under pressure once again next week
as the build in inventories begins to accelerate,” Teri Viswanath, director of commodities strategy at BNP Paribas SA in
 New York , said in an e-mail yesterday. “It appears that the
inventory restocking during this year’s abbreviated shoulder
season might offset the relatively undersized injections
resulting from the late-breaking summer heat.”  Natural gas futures slid 0.6 cent, or 0.2 percent, to
$3.575 per million British thermal units during the first three
days of trading this week on the Nymex. Prices yesterday climbed
to $3.719, the highest intraday level since July 25. The futures
are up 6.7 percent this year.  The Nymex trading floor was closed on Sept. 2 in observance
of the U.S. Labor Day holiday.  Weather Outlook  The high temperature in  Dallas  on Sept. 16 may be 78
degrees Fahrenheit (26 Celsius), 11 lower than usual, according
to  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,  Pennsylvania . Two days
later,  Boston ’s reading may drop to 7 below average at 65
degrees. Power producers account for 32 percent of U.S. gas
demand, according to the Energy Information Administration, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm.  U.S. inventories  increased 58 billion cubic feet in the
week ended Aug. 30 to 3.188 trillion, below the five-year
average increase of 60 billion, the EIA said yesterday. Analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg predicted a gain of 54 billion.  A  supply surplus  to the five-year average narrowed to 1.4
percent after holding at 1.5 percent for three weeks. A  deficit 
versus year-earlier levels narrowed to 6.2 percent from 7
percent the previous week.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex gas futures will probably
rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This week’s
results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  3      5      4  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  