-- Natural Gas Caps First Weekly Loss in Month on Supply Outlook
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-09-06T19:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/natural-gas-extends-losses-as-u-s-supply-gain-beats-forecasts.html
Natural gas futures fell for a
second day in New York, capping the first weekly decline in a
month, on speculation that stockpile gains may accelerate as the
summer cooling season wanes.  Gas dropped 1.3 percent after forecasts for above-normal
temperatures in parts of the eastern and central U.S. states
moderated for Sept. 11 through Sept. 15, according to MDA
Weather Services in Gaithersburg,  Maryland . Futures slid 2.9
percent yesterday when the government reported a bigger-than-expected  supply gain .  “There is a point late in the summer when the weather can
no longer attract buyers, and that may be what we are seeing,”
said Teri Viswanath, director of commodities strategy at BNP
Paribas SA in New York. “It’s definitely a follow-on response
to yesterday’s higher-than-anticipated injection number. In the
next string of injection reports we expect sizable increases.”  Natural gas for October delivery fell 4.5 cents to settle
at $3.53 per million British thermal units on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. Volume was 31 percent below the 100-day
average at 2:36 p.m. The futures dropped 1.4 percent this week,
the first decline since Aug. 9, and have advanced 5.3 percent
this year.  The discount of October to November futures narrowed 0.3
cent to 8.8 cents. October gas traded 33.7 cents below the
January contract, unchanged from yesterday.  Options Trading  October $3.50 puts were the most active options in
electronic trading. They were 1.4 cents higher at 7.9 cents per
million Btu on volume of 972 at 2:58 p.m. Puts accounted for 54
percent of trading volume. Implied volatility for October at-the-money options was 28.86 percent at 2:45 p.m., compared with
29.48 percent yesterday.  The U.S. East Coast may see temperatures fluctuate between
warm and cool during the next two weeks, according to
forecasters. Highs and lows may be separated by at least 24
degrees Fahrenheit (13 Celsius) during the course of this
weekend in  Washington  and New York, the National Weather Service
said.  The ups and downs may continue through Sept. 20, Matt Rogers, president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,
Maryland, said today.  “One of the trickiest parts of the forecast is the back-and-forth variability on the East Coast,” he said in a note to
clients.  Temperature Outlook  The high in New York City on Sept. 12 may be 82 degrees, 5
above normal, before dropping to 6 lower than average at 60
degrees on Sept. 20, said AccuWeather Inc. in State College,
 Pennsylvania . Power generation accounts for 32 percent of U.S.
gas demand, according to the Energy Information Administration,
the Energy Department’s statistical arm.  A tropical depression that formed in the Bay of Campeche
was making landfall near Tampico,  Mexico , at about 2:30 p.m.,
the  U.S. National Hurricane Center  said. It is expected to
weaken as it moves across land, bring heavy rain to the region.  In the Atlantic, Tropical Storm Gabrielle dissipated near
the Dominican Republic and remnants of the system have a 20
percent chance of becoming a cyclone in the next 48 hours, the
center said in a 2 p.m. advisory. A low-pressure area northeast
of that has a 10% chance of strengthening into a cyclone in the
next two days.  The Gulf will account for 5.7 percent of U.S. gas
production this year, EIA data show.  Gas Inventories  U.S. gas inventories expanded by 58 billion cubic feet to
3.188 trillion in the week ended Aug. 30, below the five-year
average increase of 60 billion for the period, EIA said
yesterday. Analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg showed a gain
of 54 billion.  A  supply deficit  to the five-year average narrowed to 1.4
percent from 1.5 percent, the EIA said. A  surplus  to year-earlier levels narrowed to 6.2 percent from 7 percent.  “With more progress expected to made against the year-on-year deficit and production expected to make a new record,
again, this year, prices will remain challenged in the short-run,” John Kilduff, partner at Again Capital LLC and editor of
the Energy OverView newsletter in New York, wrote today.  The  gas-rig count  rose by 14 this week to 394, the most
since March 22,  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  data released today showed.
The total is down 8.6 percent this year.  Gas production in 2013 will increase for the sixth
consecutive year as new wells come online at shale deposits such
as the Marcellus in the Northeast, according to the EIA. Output
will average 69.89 billion cubic feet a day, up 1 percent from
last year’s record of 69.18 billion, the government said in its
monthly  Short-Term Energy Outlook  on Aug. 6.  The U.S. met 87 percent of its own energy needs in the
first five months of 2013, on pace to be the highest annual rate
since 1986, according to EIA data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  