-- New York Times CEO Will Face Parliament Over BBC Pay Packages
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-09-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/new-york-times-ceo-will-face-parliament-over-bbc-pay-packages.html
Former British Broadcasting Corp.
Director General  Mark Thompson , who now serves as chief
executive officer of New York Times Co., will appear before
Parliament next week to address criticism that the BBC paid
excessive severance to two former managers.  Thompson, who left the U.K.’s publicly funded television
and radio service a year ago to take the Times job, will face
questions over whether the exit packages were vetted by the
authorities. In a statement to Parliament ahead of the Sept. 9
appearance, Thompson said the BBC Trust governing body was aware
of the payments, disputing claims made by the organization.  “They were fully informed in advance about the proposed
settlements to these two managers, and had every opportunity to
intervene had they so chosen,” Thompson said in a separate e-mailed statement. “I look forward to giving evidence to the
committee next Monday.”  At dispute are the level of severance payments made to Mark Byford, a deputy director general, and Sharon Baylay, a
marketing executive. Byford  was paid  about 1 million pounds
($1.6 million), while Baylay received 394,000 pounds. Thompson
will join former and current  BBC  officials at the hearing to
discuss the payouts to the managers, who left the BBC in 2010.  The U.K.’s government-spending watchdog in July said the
BBC broke rules on severance payments in spending 25 million
pounds over three years to cut top jobs, paying some managers
more than they were entitled -- either to keep them as
consultants or ensure they left quickly. The BBC handed out 150
severance packages over three years ending in December 2012.  Insufficient Evidence  The  Metropolitan Police Service  said last month that its
Economic Crime office hadn’t found enough “evidence of
dishonesty or criminal misconduct” to warrant an investigation.  The BBC is funded by U.K. residents through an annual
license fee charged to households that own televisions. The
current fee is 145.50 pounds for a  color TV license .  The BBC’s severance policies drew increased scrutiny after
former Director General George Entwistle received 450,000
pounds, more than twice his contracted entitlement, when he quit
less than two months into the job in November. Entwistle stepped
down after a television report by the BBC’s “Newsnight”
program falsely implicated a former senior politician with
sexual abuse of a child.  The shakeup followed a period of cost-cutting under
Thompson, who shed jobs in a bid to streamline the BBC and pare
expenses. While the cuts ultimately saved 35 million pounds over
a three-year period -- more than they cost -- the severance
payoffs “provided poor value for money for license fee
payers,” according an auditor’s report from July.  “The level of some of these payments was wrong,” current
BBC Director General Tony Hall said in a statement after the
auditor’s report was released. “The BBC lost its way on
payments in recent years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  