-- NFL Retiree Publicity Judge Orders Opposing Suits Dropped
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-09-06T22:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/nfl-retiree-publicity-judge-orders-rival-lawsuits-dropped.html
Two  National Football League  retiree
lawsuits filed by former players dissatisfied with the
settlement terms of an earlier suit over the NFL’s use of their
likenesses in marketing must be dropped, a U.S. judge said.  Preliminarily approved on April 8, the opposed accord calls
for formation of a special licensing agency to market ex-player
publicity rights and creation of a $42 million fund overseen by
retirees for the benefit of their peers.  U.S. District Judge Paul A. Magnuson in  St. Paul ,
 Minnesota , who is scheduled to hear arguments over the fairness
and final approval of that agreement on Oct. 17, today said
filing of the latter suits violated terms of his April 8 order,
which bars bringing new cases while the settlement is pending.
He blamed the objecting players’ attorneys.  “Their behavior, which is calculated only to doom the
settlement in this matter, shocks the court’s conscience,”
Magnuson said.  Opponents of the proposed agreement include one-time Los
Angeles Rams lineman Fred Dryer, whose name is on the original
case, former  New York  Jets Mark Gastineau and Abdul Salaam, who
were part of the 1980s defensive unit known as the Sack
Exchange, and Kansas City Chiefs’ Curley Culp, in whose name a
suit was filed in Camden,  New Jersey , federal court Aug. 20.  ‘Controversial’ Settlement  Another lawsuit was filed by the estate of late Oakland
Raiders defensive back Jack Tatum at the U.S. court in
Pittsburgh 10 days later.  “As all parties realize, the settlement is controversial
and its approval and the accompanying final certification of a
plaintiff class are not a foregone conclusion,” Magnuson said.
“There can be no doubt that the filing of Culp and Tatum
violated the injunction against related litigation.”  In addition to ordering lawyers in those cases to make
public the dismissal of those cases, he ordered that those who
filed papers seeking exclusion from the settlement class be
given 10 business days to reconsider and withdraw those
requests.  “We will comply with his order and will refile, and
relitigate these claims that our clients believe in, when
permitted,” Tatum plaintiffs’ lawyer Jason Luckasevic said by
phone.  A lawyer for the Culp plaintiffs, Jon King, said while he
too would abide by Magnuson’s ruling, that decision would be
challenged on appeal. At issue, he said, is when a player who’s
opted out of the class can rightly consider himself excluded.  Filtering Payments  Underlying the legal dispute, is dissatisfaction over the
terms of the accord, which doesn’t directly compensate the
retired players, King said, filtering those payments through
various organizations.  “Not a single penny would go to any player directly,” he
said. King said his Culp case stands for at least 500 retirees.
The Tatum case purports to represent about 550 more, according
to Magnuson’s ruling.  Plaintiffs’ lawyer  Michael Hausfeld  didn’t immediately
reply to a request for comment e-mailed after regular business
hours.  The initial case is Dryer v. National Football League, 09-cv-02182, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota (St. Paul).
The latter cases are Culp v. NFL Productions LLC d/b/a NFL
Films, 13-cv-04999, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Camden), and Tatum v. National Football League, 13-cv-01272,
U.S. District Court, Western District of  Pennsylvania 
(Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  