-- Nielsen Said to Be Negotiating Concessions for Arbitron
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n ,   W i l l   R o b i n s o n   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-09-06T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/nielsen-said-to-be-negotiating-concessions-for-arbitron.html
Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN) , seeking to form
a company able to measure audiences across TV, radio, the Web
and mobile, is negotiating concessions with the U.S. Federal
Trade Commission that would permit its $1.26 billion acquisition
of  Arbitron Inc. (ARB) , two people with knowledge of the talks said.  The discussion centers on a requirement for the combined
company to license measurement technology to  ComScore Inc. (SCOR) , in
addition to researchers, television networks and other parties,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
conversations weren’t public. A consent order could become
public within the month after Nielsen said Aug. 30 it agreed to
extend the review period into September, without setting a
specific date.  While the situation remains fluid, the talks are a positive
sign for Nielsen, one of the people said. An agreement would be
a win for the company, whose ratings help set rates for
$70 billion in U.S. television advertising.  Nielsen is seeking to overcome objections from the FTC,
competitors including ComScore and TV networks such as  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN.  “Regarding the regulatory process in the Arbitron
acquisition, Nielsen has nothing new to report,” the company
said in an e-mail. “The regulatory process is ongoing and we
continue to be confident in the outcome.”  Peter Kaplan , a spokesman for the FTC in  Washington , Kim Myers, a spokeswoman for Arbitron, and Amy Phillips, an ESPN
spokeswoman, declined to comment on the talks about a proposed
licensing agreement.  Andrew Lipsman , a ComScore spokesman,
didn’t immediately respond to e-mail and phone messages
yesterday after regular business hours seeking comment on the
talks.  Smartphones, Tablets  Under the proposal, ComScore would continue to have access
to technology from Arbitron that it uses to measure audiences
for ESPN across radio, television, PCs, smartphones and tablets,
one of the people said. ESPN, the biggest sports TV network,
said in June that it’s using the combined  measurement  technology
to track viewers who use both its cable channels and WatchESPN
app.  Nielsen, based in New York, rose 0.8 percent to $34.83
yesterday in New York. Its shares have climbed 14 percent this
year. Arbitron, based in Columbia, Maryland, was unchanged at
$47.21 yesterday and is up 1.1 percent for 2013. Nielsen is
offering $48 a share for Arbitron.  ComScore, based in Reston, Virginia, fell 1.2 percent to
$28.98 yesterday. The stock has more than doubled this year.  Antitrust Enforcement  The Obama administration has stepped up antitrust
enforcement with lawsuits against AMR Corp.’s merger with  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ’s takeover of
Grupo Modelo SAB. These lawsuits indicate regulators could
challenge more deals between conglomerates in concentrated
markets.  The FTC investigators are concerned that the transaction
could limit access to the audience measurement technology across
platforms that Nielsen would control as a result of the merger,
one of the people said. Under antitrust law, it can be illegal
if a dominant firm that controls a tool or material considered
“essential” to competing in a given market withholds it from
competitors.  Nielsen says it controls about 80 percent of the TV ratings
industry and Arbitron accounts for about 90 percent of radio
measurement, which would give the combined firm a dominant
position for both.  Nielsen, which announced its acquisition of Arbitron in
December, is seeking to offer advertisers a unified system of
measuring audiences across multiple forms of media, making it
easier for them to make ad-buying decisions whether on TV, radio
or the Web.  Handwritten Diaries  The company, which once relied on handwritten diaries by TV
viewers, now mostly measures audiences through electronic-metering devices installed in panelists’ homes. Arbitron uses a
similar system for radio listeners.  Television executives, including  CBS Corp. (CBS)  Chief Executive
Officer  Leslie Moonves , have been pushing Nielsen to count
viewers who watch TV shows on tablet computers and other mobile
devices.  “Nielsen is getting better by the day in measuring
streaming, and I think we’re closer and closer to our goal of
getting every single eyeball measured,” Moonves said on a July
conference call. “All this technology and all this measurement
only is going to be helpful for us because everything is going
to be counted, and we’re going to get paid in full.”  Buyout firms  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , Thomas H. Lee Partners
LP,  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and  KKR & Co. (KKR)  are among Nielsen’s five
largest investors, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Capital Group Cos. is its biggest shareholder, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  