-- No Swift China Breakthrough Seen by Mao-to-Xi Scholar of Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-06T02:26:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/no-swift-china-breakthrough-seen-by-mao-to-xi-scholar-of-economy.html
Zhang Shuguang , who’s studied
 China’s economy  for more than 50 years, is skeptical that
Communist Party leaders will unveil significant breakthroughs in
an economic plan due in November.  “It will mention rural reform, it will mention fiscal
reform, it will mention financial reform -- but obstacles
hindering these reforms are still there,” Zhang, 73, an
economist and senior fellow with the  Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences , said in an interview in Beijing last week. “Hopes for
breakthroughs shouldn’t be too high.”  The gathering will be the third full meeting of the party’s
current  Central Committee , including President  Xi Jinping ,
Premier  Li Keqiang , ministers and the heads of the biggest state
firms and banks. It was at such a third plenum in late 1978 that
 Deng Xiaoping  and his allies inaugurated a series of economic
reforms that began to open up China to foreign investment and
loosen state controls over the economy.  Investors are watching for the party to flesh out plans to
cut the state’s role in the economy, boost consumption and fuel
growth by integrating millions of migrant workers from the
countryside into cities. Land reform and changes to the
household registration, or hukou, system that limits labor
mobility may be on the agenda.  Fiscal issues loom, such as local governments’ reliance on
land sales for revenue and allocating the costs of urbanization
between central and local governments. The  United Nations  puts a
price tag of at least 41.6 trillion  yuan  ($6.8 trillion) over
two decades on integrating rural workers into cities.  Urbanization Model  “It’s very hard to shift the model of urbanization,”
Zhang said. “Local governments have been making a lot of money
by selling land in the old model of urbanization, and if they
are told to pay money on social security and affordable housing
in the new model, they won’t be happy.”  Zhang, who completed graduate and post-graduate studies
before  Mao Zedong  unleashed the Cultural Revolution, is a co-founder of the Beijing-based Unirule Institute of Economics, a
non-governmental research organization set up in 1993. Fan Gang,
a former academic adviser on the central bank’s monetary policy
committee, was also a founder.  While China’s leaders are trying to construct a new
economic model, Zhang said moves such as increased railway
spending this year showed the challenge of discarding the old
investment-driven approach. Such measures to ensure growth mean
that the government will meet this year’s target for a 7.5
percent economic expansion, he said.  Dangerous Business  One of Li’s stated goals is to pare back the government’s
role in the economy to let markets play a bigger part, a shift
that means tackling powerful state-owned businesses. To Zhang,
the existing climate for private enterprise in  China  is not
encouraging, and seems difficult to change.  He cites the example of the execution in July of
businessman Zeng Chengjie for illegal fund-raising and fraud, a
case discussed at a Unirule conference last month.  “On one hand, the government is saying that it wants to
encourage private investment, and on the other hand, a private
businessman was executed for, at worst, economic crimes,” Zhang
said. “It doesn’t work this way.”  Obstacles to change in China mean that even the best-drafted policy blueprint may fail to produce the desired
results, said Zhang. “You sow dragons’ teeth, but you harvest
fleas,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  