-- Norilsk Nickel Hires Citigroup to Sell Mines in Australia
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-09-06T03:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/norilsk-nickel-hires-citigroup-to-sell-mines-in-australia.html
  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (GMKN) , the largest
producer of the metal, hired  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to help sell its
Australian portfolio that includes four nickel mines currently
idled because of low prices and high production costs.  The company has sent out fliers to prospective buyers to
acquire  the assets , an Australia-based company spokesman, who
asked not to be named citing company policy, said by phone.
Norilsk in 2010 said it had plans to divest most of its
Australian assets it acquired in 2007 through the C$6.8 billion
($6.5 billion)  acquisition  of LionOre Mining International Ltd.  Nickel producers are struggling with falling prices for the
metal used to make stainless steel after demand from steelmakers
declined. Prices have fallen 19 percent this year to $13,825 a
metric ton at 12:22 pm. Sydney time, while at the time of the
LionOre acquisition, they traded around $40,000 a ton.  Norilsk’s assets comprise the Honeymoon Well nickel project
as well as the Thunderbox gold mine in Western  Australia .
Thunderbox alongside the Lake Johnston, Cawse, Black Swan and
Waterloo nickel mines are currently on care and maintenance,
according to the company’s website. There was no timeline for an
agreement to finalize a sale of Norilsk’s Australian assets, the
company spokesman said. Interfax yesterday reported the company
hired Citigroup to help with a sale of the mines, citing an
unidentified source.  Norilsk acquired LionOre after prevailing during a bidding
war with Xstrata Plc. The Russian company bought Toronto-based
LionOre to access its Activox technology, which helps produce
metal from low-grade ore, and to gain mines in Australia, South
Africa and Botswana. Norilsk ended the Activox project in
Botswana in 2009, saying it wasn’t economic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  