-- North Korea’s Kim Says Rodman Can Enjoy Pyongyang Anytime
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-09-07T03:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/north-korea-s-kim-says-rodman-can-enjoy-pyongyang-anytime.html
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un
described retired National Basketball Association player Dennis Rodman as a “friend to the nation” and invited him to visit
anytime to “rest and enjoy pleasant days,” according to the
official Korean Central News Agency.  Kim and his wife, Ri Sol Ju, hosted a banquet for Rodman
today in Pyongyang during the Basketball Hall of Fame member’s
second trip to North Korea this year, according to KCNA.  Rodman, 52, who arrived in North Korea on Sept. 3,
“sincerely” thanked Kim for the welcome, calling it an
“expression of good will to the American people,” KCNA said.  Rodman traveled to Pyongyang after North Korea last week
revoked an invitation for a visit by Robert King, the U.S. State
Department’s special envoy on North Korean human rights, who
sought to negotiate the release of Korean-American tour operator
Kenneth Bae, who has been held since November. A Foreign
Ministry statement issued to KCNA on Aug. 31 said Kim’s regime
canceled King’s invitation because of U.S. military drills last
month with South Korea.  Rodman, who had visited the North Korean capital in
February with members of the Harlem Globetrotters, wasn’t
accompanied by Bae when he stopped in Beijing today on his
return journey.  Bae is serving a sentence of 15 years of hard labor for
alleged hostile acts against the country. The U.S. is concerned
about Bae’s health and has urged North Korea to release him on
humanitarian grounds, according to State Department spokeswoman
Marie Harf.  Rodman was a member of five NBA championship teams and was
inducted into the Basketball Hall of Fame in 2011. He is known
for tattoos, multicolored hair and piercings, and has competed
in professional wrestling events and reality television
competitions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in United Nations at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  