-- North-South Korea Restore Military Hot-Line as Tensions Ease
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-09-06T06:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/north-and-south-korea-restore-military-hotline-as-tensions-ease.html
North and  South Korea  restored their
military hot-line in another sign of improving ties, bolstering
efforts to reopen their jointly run industrial park shuttered in
April at the height of tensions between the nations.  Officials from the two countries spoke today on the hot-line for the first time since March, when the North threatened
war against South Korea and the U.S., the South’s Unification
Ministry said in a text message. Previously, the line was used
to communicate lists of South Korean nationals traveling daily
to Gaeseong complex across the heavily armed border.  “The two governments are now talking on an official
communications line,” Oh Gyeong Seob, a researcher at the
Sejong Institute south of  Seoul , said by phone. “This is a
positive signal for the resumption of operations at Gaeseong.”  The restoration brightens prospects for the outcome of
talks between the two countries scheduled for Sept. 10 at
Gaeseong, where they will try to set a date for reopening the
factory park. The site was seen as a symbol of reconciliation
between the countries until the North pulled out its 53,000
workers in April in protest of South Korean media portrayals of
the site as a needed source of hard currency for the Kim Jong Un
regime.  Weightlifter Trip  In a further sign of rapprochement, South Korea will allow
41 people to travel to Pyongyang on Sept. 10 for a weight-lifting competition, the Unification Ministry said in an emailed
statement.  During the competition, North Korea will for the first time
allow the South Korean flag to be hoisted and the South Korean
anthem to be played in Pyongyang, the ministry said.  The Gaeseong shutdown added to tension in the region after
the North conducted its third nuclear test in February and the
 United Nations , with support of the U.S., toughened its
sanctions against the country. Since a preliminary agreement in
August to reopen Gaeseong, the two sides also reached an accord
to restart reunions of families separated by the  Korean War .  The hot-line may be a sign of a thaw in relations between
the two Koreas, still ties with the U.S. remain strained after
the Syrian military’s use of chemical arms focused attention on
North Korean’s production of the weapons.  “There certainly is a long and unsavory history of
cooperation between the North Korean government and the Syrian
regime,” Daniel Russel, assistant secretary of state for  East
Asia  and the Pacific, said at a briefing in Seoul after meeting
government officials there.  The Red Cross agencies of the two Koreas operate a
communications line in addition to the military hot-line between
the governments. That phone line is open only in the daytime,
making it difficult for the Koreas to cooperate in dealing with
nighttime emergencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  