-- Olympic Delegates Mull Radiation, Riots in Vote on 2020 Games
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-09-06T00:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/olympic-delegates-mull-radiation-riots-in-vote-on-2020-games.html
Tokyo,  Madrid  and Istanbul all have
to overcome significant hurdles as the cities try to win votes
to host the 2020 Olympics, which may bring a boost of more than
$500 million to local economies.  The finalists will make presentations to the  International
Olympic Committee  tomorrow in Buenos Aires before about 100 IOC
members decide on the host. Each city had to face questions this
week about its preparations and ability to hold the summer
games, which winning bidders often use to improve transport and
other infrastructure.  Tokyo, the 1964 host, faced concern over radiation leaks at
the Fukushima nuclear power plant, while Madrid was queried
about its willingness to spend at a time when unemployment
exceeds 25 percent. In the past few months, Istanbul was the
site of anti-government riots and 31 Turkish athletes were
suspended for doping. Still, the vote comes down to the cities’
ability to present their issues in a good light, as well as a
bit of luck, said Richard Carrion, an IOC member for 23 years.  “All of that you have to take into consideration,”
Carrion, a Puerto Rican who is chairman of the IOC’s finance
commission and a candidate for its presidency, said in an
interview. “Do you have confidence that seven years from now
things will be better? It’s a very complex set of factors.
You’ve got some very interesting votes here and they’re very
tough to call.”  Tokyo is the favorite, according to oddschecker.com, which
gathers odds from Internet betting sites. The Japanese capital
is 11-10, meaning a successful bet of $10 will return $11 plus
the original stake. Madrid is 11-4 and Istanbul 5-1.  Prime Ministers  Prime Ministers Shinzo Abe of  Japan ,  Mariano Rajoy  of  Spain 
and  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  of Turkey will be in  Argentina  for the
final presentations.  The finalists were selected last year after the IOC dropped
the Qatari capital of Doha and Baku,  Azerbaijan . An IOC
evaluation commission compiled a technical assessment and report
on each bid that members received in July.  Tokyo is bidding for the second straight time, while
Madrid, which lost out to  Rio de Janeiro  in the final round of
voting for the 2016 Olympics, is bidding for a third consecutive
time and Istanbul a fifth time overall.  The decision should “always be what is the best for the
movement, what sort of impact it would have on the city being
given the games, what value add would this bring and not
forgetting the enormous amount of investment,” said IOC Vice
President  Ng Ser Miang , a Singaporean who is also running for
the presidency.  Tokyo  Tokyo  has overcome a lack of public enthusiasm that doomed
its bid for the 2016 games, with a March IOC poll finding
support among residents at 70 percent, compared with 47 percent
in May last year.  The government is billing the bid as marking Japan’s
recovery from the 2011 earthquake, tsunami and nuclear disaster.
Parliament passed two motions in favor of the bid and Abe told
the evaluation panel in March that hosting is a long-held dream.  The Japanese city has emphasized merits such as financial
stability, safety and convenience in its pitch. Tokyo put aside
408.8 billion yen ($4.1 billion) for building and upgrading
facilities, including an 80,000-seat National Stadium designed
by Pritzker Architecture Prize winner  Zaha Hadid .  Undercutting its effort has been the Fukushima nuclear
plant accident about 220 kilometers (137 miles) northeast of the
city. The facility was damaged in a 2011 earthquake, and more
than 300 tons of highly radioactive water had leaked from a
storage tank.  Spanish Economy  Madrid’s bid comes even as Spain’s economic woes worsened
since it lost out on the 2016 games. Unemployment has risen to
26 percent from 18.5 percent, and public sector debt last year
increased to 84.2 percent of gross domestic product as the
government backstopped municipalities, tax-funded pensions and
jobless-benefit systems.  About 80 percent of Madrid’s venues are built, and
organizers have cut planned spending on stadiums and
infrastructure by 24 percent to $1.9 billion compared with the
2016 bid, according to Bloomberg News calculations. Organizing
costs are budgeted at $3.1 billion, and would be covered by
television rights, sponsorships and ticket sales, according to
Juan Antonio Samaranch Jr., a Spanish member of the IOC’s 15-person executive board.  Samaranch said it would have been an “irresponsibility”
not to bid again after more than 10 years of investment in
infrastructure from Madrid’s two unsuccessful attempts.  Morale Boost  As well as facilities including a $220 million tennis
arena, authorities spent on Madrid’s airport, ring roads and
subway before the country’s economic slump began in 2008,
Samaranch said. About 56 percent of Spaniards aged 25 or under
are out of work, according to Eurostat.  “The games would give an extraordinary boost to the
economy and morale of young people who have been suffering a
lot,” Samaranch said in an Aug. 22 phone interview.  Istanbul has told the IOC it plans to spend $16.8 billion
on infrastructure ahead of the 2020 Olympics, with only $1.1
billion of that set aside for projects specific to the games,
bid chairman Hasan Arat said.  After four unsuccessful bids, the city is now ready to host
sports’ biggest event, according to  Turkey ’s Prime Minister.  “Istanbul, with its increasing experience in organizing
events, developing economy, geographical position and young
population has the potential to organize an unmatched
Olympics,” Erdogan told reporters before he left for the G-20
meeting in  Russia  and then to head Turkey’s Olympics delegation.  Cheating, Riots  Istanbul had to react to last month’s suspension of 31
athletes, including former Olympic silver medalist hammer-thrower Esref Apak, for two years by the Turkish Athletics
Federation after they tested positive for banned substances.  Turkish soccer clubs Fenerbahce and Besiktas were also
banned from European competition for match-fixing, while police
and anti-government protesters clashed in Istanbul in June.  Just 10 months after Turkey achieved its first investment-grade rating in two decades, bond yields are soaring to within
half a percentage point of junk-level countries including
Hungary and  Nigeria .  Concern that the conflict in neighboring  Syria  will
escalate, Turkey’s growth prospects will worsen and the U.S.
will curb stimulus have damped demand for the nation’s assets.  Turkey’s central bank Governor Erdem Basci said Aug. 27
that the country may need to revise its year-end economic growth
forecast from 4 percent now. The current-account gap widened to
$35.9 billion in the six months through June from $30 billion in
the same period a year earlier. The country may exceed its
projected 2013 shortfall of $60.7 billion, Economy Minister
Zafer Caglayan said Aug. 27.  Voting Plan  The three cities will get one more chance to convince the
IOC voters that their positives make up for any shortcomings
before the final ballots. While most delegates have a plan,
their support could change if their first choice is eliminated.  “You have three cities and they will start with more or
less the same number of votes,” Carrion said. “I’ve made up my
mind, I know how I’m going to vote. The key one is what if your
first pick goes out, so you always have to talk. I have no doubt
all three can do this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Buenos Aires  via the Rio de Janeiro newsroom at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  