-- Honda Says Accord Hybrid Has MPG Lead Amid Mileage Fray
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-09-06T22:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/honda-says-accord-hybrid-has-fuel-economy-lead-among-u-s-sedans.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267) , the first carmaker
to sell hybrids in the U.S., said its gasoline-electric Accord
will be the most fuel-efficient U.S. sedan when it goes on sale,
topping competing  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Ford Motor Co. models.  The 2014 Accord Hybrid gets 50 miles (80 kilometers) per
gallon of gasoline in the city, 45 mpg on the highway and 47 mpg
combined, based on U.S. government testing, Honda said
yesterday. While Ford’s Fusion hybrid is also rated 47 mpg
combined, Ford faces lawsuits claiming the car’s mileage is
overstated. Toyota’s hybrid Camry averages a combined 41 mpg.  “Even before it hits showrooms this fall, the Accord
Hybrid is already surpassing the competition and claiming
segment leadership,” Mike Accavitti, Honda’s senior vice
president of U.S. auto operations, said in a statement.  The range of U.S. hybrid and plug-in vehicles is expanding
as automakers face pressure to meet increasingly strict fuel-economy rules. While Honda beat Toyota to the U.S. by
introducing the tiny Insight hybrid in 1999 -- half a year
before Toyota’s Prius -- its gasoline-electric vehicle sales are
overshadowed by those of Toyota and Ford.  Toyota, based in Toyota City,  Japan , dominates the segment
with 248,134 hybrid sales in the U.S. this year, followed by
Ford’s 61,306. Honda trails with 12,770 deliveries through
August.  Ford Flap  “Honda from day one hasn’t been able to do much in this
space,” said  George Magliano , senior economist at IHS
Automotive in New York. “If they get some bragging rights with
the hybrid, I don’t know how much that means. What matters is
Accord versus the Camry, not the Accord Hybrid versus the Camry
Hybrid.”  The Accord is the second-best-selling mid-size sedan in the
U.S. this year, with 256,926 deliveries, behind Camry’s 287,119.
The pattern has changed little for more than a decade.  U.S. sales of electric-drive cars and light trucks --
ranging from hybrids to plug-in hybrids and battery-only cars --
have gained 28 percent this year through August to at least
399,070, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Autodata
Corp.  The Accord Hybrid’s label rating puts it close to the
Prius, a mid-size model that averages 51 mpg in the city, 48 mpg
on the highway and 50 mpg combined, the best of any non-rechargeable vehicle in the U.S.  Software Upgrades  Ford (F)  offered software upgrades in July for its Fusion, C-Max and Lincoln MKZ hybrids intended to improve fuel economy
after customers, Consumer Reports magazine and other reports
said the cars fell short of promised mileage.  Last month, the Dearborn, Michigan-based company lowered
the mileage rating of its hybrid C-Max compact wagon to 43 mpg
from 47 mpg.  Honda didn’t provide pricing or a precise on-sale date for
the Accord Hybrid. A plug-in Accord, priced at about $40,000,
went on sale in January. It travels about 13 miles on lithium-ion battery power before operating as a conventional hybrid.  Production of Accord Hybrids began yesterday at Honda’s
main North American plant in Marysville,  Ohio . The Tokyo-based
company said it invested $19 million to enlarge the factory.  Honda’s North American operations are based in Marysville.
The company’s American depositary receipts rose 0.7 percent to
$38.02 at the close in New York yesterday. They have gained 2.9
percent this year, compared with a 12 percent advance in the
benchmark NYSE Composite Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  