-- Honduras Seeks China Aid, Mining to Aid Debt, Lobo Says
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-09-06T13:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/honduras-seeks-china-aid-mining-to-aid-debt-lobo-says.html
A 150 percent increase in public
debt has become a burden for  Honduras ’s economy that can be
overcome with fresh aid from China, more mining revenue and oil
exploration, President Porfirio Lobo said.  Lobo, elected in the wake of a 2009 coup, boosted local
debt to 52 billion lempiras ($2.6 billion) in June from 21
billion lempiras before he took office. Central America’s
biggest coffee producer had little choice after much of Latin
America cut relations and the economy contracted, Lobo said in
an interview yesterday from his home near Tegucigalpa.  “Domestic debt levels are high and growing,” said Lobo, a
65-year-old former rancher. “When we entered the government,
the economy had contracted 2.4 percent due to the political and
economic crisis. We were completely isolated.”  Investment from  China  is critical to Honduras, Lobo said.
The government will this month sign an accord with the
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China  for a $295 million loan to
fund the second stage of the  Patuca 3  hydroelectric project.  In June, Honduras announced plans to work with a Chinese
company on an Atlantic-to-Pacific railroad to boost trade across
the Central American isthmus. There is a “huge” opportunity to
boost exports to China, Lobo said.  “Chinese financing is very important for us,” he said in
his living room, near a photo of him meeting Pope Benedict XVI.
“It is historic for us because we do not have diplomatic
relations with China.”  Revoking Concessions  Lobo says he wants to revoke and re-issue as many as 280
unused mining concessions to boost production and increase
royalties. Honduras should also pare back tax exemptions that
total about 22 billion lempiras to broaden the government’s
revenue stream, he said.  “There are lots of tax exemptions in the country,” said
Sarah Glendon, an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service in New
York. Exemptions total about 6 percent of gross domestic product
and the country has “very weak fiscal oversight,” she said.  The country’s mining industry includes operations by
Vancouver-based  Aura Minerals Inc. (ORA)  and zinc miner  Nyrstar (NYR) , based
in  Belgium . BG Group Plc approved in April an agreement to
search for oil off Honduras’s Caribbean coast, the first
offshore exploration effort in Honduras in 30 years.  After selling $500 million in bonds in March, the
government still plans to sell another $250 million when rates
fall, Lobo said, without giving a specific target. The yield on
the country’s notes due in 2024 has climbed to 10.7 percent from
7.5 percent as investors sell emerging market debt on bets the
U.S. Federal Reserve will slow its stimulus efforts, causing
interest rates to rise.  Bond Rout  Honduras’s dollar bonds lost 18 percent since being sold in
March, more than double the 8.8 percent decline for emerging
market debt over the same period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Barclays Plc’s withdrew from the March bond sale, prompting
Honduras to amend the prospectus. The country said it faced a
$205 million lawsuit tied to a government-owned logging company,
according to the revised document sent to investors and obtained
by Bloomberg News.  Citing problems with enforcing contracts and barriers to
starting a business, Honduras was ranked 125th out of 185
economies in the World Bank’s “Ease of Doing Business” report
this year, four spots higher than 2012.  “I would think if you are a manufacturing company looking
for a decent place to move your factory in Central America, I
don’t see Honduras being at the top of your list,” said Carl Ross, a managing director at Oppenheimer & Co. in Atlanta.  Elections  With elections in November, the next government will have
to tackle a homicide rate the World Bank says costs about 10
percent of GDP. Reducing violence will boost the economy and
should be one of the next government’s top priority, Lobo said.  Central bank President Maria Elena Mondragon said in an
interview Sept. 4 that Honduras is overcoming investor fears of
drug violence and needs to rein in a widening budget deficit to
sustain economic growth.  Economic growth is forecast to slow to 3 percent this year
from 3.3 percent last year, due in part to diminished coffee
exports stemming from leaf rust disease, the International
Monetary Fund said last month.  While Lobo is prohibited from running for re-election,
among the eight contenders for president is Xiomara Castro de
Zelaya, the wife of the former leader who was overthrown in
2009.  Drug Traffic  Castro, 53, has criticized the country’s two leading
political parties for failing to resolve Honduras’s crime and
drug trafficking problems.  “Bipartisanship has converted the country into a stage for
drug-traffickers and militiamen where justice is bought and
sold,” Castro said in a June 16 speech. “It has made Honduras
into the most violent country in the world.”  Lobo said enthusiasm for the general election is a sign
that the country is on the right track and that Hondurans don’t
want a return to the uncertainty of 2009.  “It’s the first time that we have this many candidates
participating,” Lobo said. “For me, that is a mission
accomplished considering that democracy has overcome the
previous political difficulties.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in Tegucigalpa, Honduras at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  