-- Onyx Sued by Investors Claiming Amgen Buyout Is Too Cheap
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-09-06T22:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/onyx-sued-by-investors-claiming-amgen-buyout-is-too-cheap.html
Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX)  was sued
by investors claiming the company is undervalued in a $10.4
billion acquisition by  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  that’s “infected” by
conflicts of interest.  The transaction is “infected by numerous conflicts of
interest which hamstring the ability” of Onyx directors from
“fulfilling their fiduciary obligations to the company’s
shareholders,” according to the complaint filed in state court
in Redwood City,  California .  Amgen, the world’s largest biotechnology company by sales,
said in an Aug. 25 statement that the acquisition will be
financed using $8.1 billion in bank loans and cash the company
has in the U.S.  Onyx directors served on the board of a “de facto Amgen
subsidiary” or relied on  Thousand Oaks , California-based Amgen
for the funding of their organizations, and the transaction is
also tainted by relationships between Onyx Chief Executive
Officer N. Anthony Coles and members of Amgen’s board, according
to the complaint.  The merger agreement contains provisions benefiting Amgen
that discourage third parties from submitting superior offers,
to the detriment of Onyx’s shareholders, according to the Sept.
3 complaint.  Danielle Bertrand, a spokeswoman for Onyx, declined to
comment on the complaint.  Amgen said it’s buying South San Francisco, California-based Onyx for $125 a share. The transaction was approved by
both boards and is expected to close in the fourth quarter.  The case is Louisiana Municipal Police Employee’s
Retirement System v. Amgen Inc., CIV-523882, California Superior
Court, San Mateo County (Redwood City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Jose , California, at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  