-- Moody’s Rates Democratic Republic of Congo B3, Outlook Stable
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-09-06T14:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/moody-s-rates-democratic-republic-of-congo-b3-outlook-stable.html
Moody’s Investors Service assigned
Democratic Republic of Congo, the world’s largest cobalt
producer, a B3 sovereign issuer rating with a stable outlook.  The rating company, based in New York, considers
investments with B ratings to be speculative and subject to high
credit risk, according to an explanation of its rating system on
the company website.  Congo’s B3 rating “reflects the fragility of the country’s
economy and the very low per capita incomes relative to its
rated peers,” Moody’s said in an e-mailed report. These
weaknesses “are offset by the robust growth prospects driven by
the significant foreign investment in the DRC’s mining sector
and the expected rise in domestic consumption.”  Congo produced about half the world’s cobalt and was the
eighth-largest producer of copper last year, according to the
 U.S. Geological Survey . The central African nation, sub-Saharan
 Africa ’s largest by landmass, may ask for almost $12 billion in
financing to build a 4,800 megawatt hydropower project that will
provide energy to South Africa and its own mining industry.  About $3.4 billion in financing for the project will come
from Congo, while private investors will provide the rest,
according to a proposal by the government.  Increased infrastructure spending could improve Congo’s
rating, Moody’s said, along with fiscal reforms, an increase in
foreign-currency reserves, and strengthening of the young
democracy’s institutions of government. Congo held its second
election in 2011 after more than three decades of dictatorship.  Wartime past  Congo’s $18 billion economy, which grew at 7.2 percent in
2012, is still recovering from a series of wars that began in
the 1990s. Conflict persists in the country’s east, and its
expansion may diminish the country’s rating, Moody’s said,
adding that intensification of the fighting was “unlikely.”  Congo yesterday agreed to peace talks with M23 rebels who
have clashed with the national army and United Nations
peacekeepers in eastern Congo since last year.  Moody’s expects Congo’s economic growth to average 8
percent “over the next few years,” as the mining industry
expands and the government’s financial position improves, it
said.  A drop in commodity prices may damage the rating, Moody’s
said, along with a rapid depreciation of the Congolese franc or
macroeconomic volatility caused by “a large deterioration of
the government’s fiscal balance.”  The office of Congo’s central bank governor, Deogratias Mutombo, did not immediately respond to requests for comment by
phone and text message.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  