-- Ousted Rutgers Athletic Director Said to Join MLS Team
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-09-06T20:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/ousted-rutgers-athletic-director-said-to-join-yankees-mls-team.html
Former Rutgers University Athletic
Director Tim Pernetti will join  Major League Soccer ’s  New York 
expansion team as its chief business officer, a person with
direct knowledge of the hiring said.  The move will be announced next week, said the person, who
requested anonymity because the signing isn’t official.  MLS in May said the  New York Yankees  would be an investor
in the team, New York City Football Club, which will be
controlled by Manchester City Football Club of the English
Premier League.  Pernetti, who resigned in April in the wake of a scandal
involving the men’s basketball coach, didn’t immediately return
an e-mail or voice mail left on his mobile phone seeking comment
on the new position. Risa Heller, a spokeswoman for NYCFC,
declined to comment. Manchester City spokeswoman Vicky Kloss
didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment on Pernetti.  Tom Mendiburu, co-founder of Sparta, New Jersey-based High
Point Solutions Inc., which has its name on the Rutgers football
stadium, in a telephone interview said his friend Pernetti “had
a few things on the table” and ultimately chose the soccer job.  “He’s got a lot of contacts in the area, in sports and
media, and he’ll leverage those and bring a lot of value to the
organization,” said Mendiburu. His company, a supplier of
online server and router hardware, signed the 10-year naming-rights agreement in 2011.  2015 Start  The league’s 20th team is scheduled to begin play in 2015.
The league, team and Yankees are working to find a suitable site
for a soccer-specific stadium. Sites in Queens and the Bronx,
near Yankee Stadium, are among those being considered.  Pernetti, 42, left his post as athletic director after a
telecast of a video showed basketball coach Mike Rice physically
and verbally attacking players at practices while using gay
slurs. Pernetti said he had seen parts of the video before
deciding to suspend the coach.  Pernetti in his resignation  letter  said his first instinct
was to fire the coach immediately.  “However, Rutgers decided to follow a process involving
university lawyers, human resources professionals, and outside
counsel,” Pernetti wrote. “Following review of the independent
investigative report, the consensus was that university policy
would not justify dismissal.”  December Suspension  Rice was initially suspended in December, three weeks after
Rutgers was invited to join the  Big Ten Conference , a move from
the Big East Conference that may increase the school’s athletic-department income by millions of dollars. University President
Robert Barchi kept his job amid faculty calls for his ouster.  The video aired by ESPN showed Rice grabbing and pushing
players, haranguing them with expletive-laden homophobic slurs
and hurling basketballs at their heads.  Pernetti, whose annual salary was $452,769 at the time of
his resignation, was included in a list of five nominees for
athletic director of the year in the 2013 Sports Business
Awards, given by SportsBusiness Journal.  MLS reaped a record $100 million expansion fee for the
team.  Man City in May played fellow English Premier League team
Chelsea, owned by Russian billionaire  Roman Abramovich , in an
exhibition at Yankee Stadium.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  