-- Palm Reserves Climbing as Production Expands for Sixth Month
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-09-06T10:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/palm-reserves-climbing-as-production-expands-for-sixth-month-1-.html
Palm oil stockpiles probably
increased in August as output in  Malaysia , the second-largest
producer, advanced for a sixth month to the highest level this
year, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Production climbed 3 percent to 1.72 million metric tons
from 1.67 million tons in July, the median of six estimates from
plantation companies, analysts and traders showed. That would be
the highest since December, according to data from the Malaysian
Palm Oil Board. Reserves expanded 3 percent to 1.71 million
tons, while  exports  gained 6.3 percent to 1.51 million tons, the
survey showed. Imports declined 20 percent to 40,000 tons,
according to the median of five estimates. The board will
publish the data on Sept. 10.  Palm, used in everything from candy to biofuel, is produced
year-round with supply accelerating in the second half because
of growing cycles. While output jumped 18 percent in July from a
month earlier, growth in production slowed in August as workers
were on leave for the Eid festival, said  Abah Ofon , a Singapore-based analyst at Standard Chartered Plc.  “Even if we had to discount the break during Eid, I don’t
think we would have seen a huge increase in output,” Ofon said
in a phone interview. “One of the things we’re coming to terms
with is that we’re not going to see similar expansion in
production as we saw last year. Just looking at the way output
 trended  in April, May and June, there’s reason to believe that
you won’t see a huge spike in the second half.”  Production Flat  Production from April to June fell 1.3 percent from the
first quarter compared with a 12 percent surge a year earlier,
board data show. Production may be unchanged or slightly lower
in 2013 from 18.8 million tons last year, said Ofon.  Palm oil for November delivery climbed 1.3 percent to close
at 2,444 ringgit ($735) a ton on the Bursa Malaysia Derivatives.
Prices gained 7.5 percent in August, the biggest monthly gain
since December 2010, supported by a rally in soybeans on concern
hot, dry weather in the U.S. Midwest would hurt crops. Soybeans
are crushed to make a substitute oil.  The median survey estimate for reserves in August was about
19 percent lower than the 2.11 million tons a year earlier,
according to board data. End-year stockpiles will not reach the
record 2.63 million tons in December, said Ofon.  “While we have a big decline in inventories, I don’t think
we’re going to see a huge rally,” said Ofon. “I would expect a
slight pullback in prices because demand tends to be relatively
weak at this time and we’ll also see an improvement in soybean
yields as we head into the harvest in the U.S.”  Diwali Festival  Global palm  stockpiles  will surge 21 percent to a record
9.7 million tons by the end of 2013-2014, while  demand  expands
4.6 percent, the least in 12 years, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture estimates.  Demand will recover next month as  India  buys before the
Diwali festival which falls in November, said Ofon. Imports by
India, the world’s biggest consumer, declined for the first time
in three months in July after a slump in the rupee to a record
increased costs for refiners.  Inbound shipments of crude and refined palm oils dropped
5.2 percent to 568,254 tons from 599,128 tons a year earlier,
the Solvent Extractors’ Association of India said on Aug. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  