-- Pemex Sees Benefit in Argentina Shale Partnership, Director Says
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2013-09-06T16:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/pemex-sees-benefit-in-argentina-shale-partnership-director-says.html
Petroleos Mexicanos , the world’s
fifth-largest crude producer, would consider an offer to partner
with  YPF SA (YPF)  in developing shale projects in  Argentina , said a
director of the state-run company known as Pemex.  A joint venture with YPF, the company that Argentina 
expropriated from Spain’s  Repsol SA (REP)  last year, would give Pemex
experience in shale oil and gas fields and generate foreign 
investment for Argentina, Fluvio Ruiz said today at a conference
in Buenos Aires.  “We just need to receive an offer and we would decide in a
few months if there was an appealing formal offer tendered,”
the Pemex board member told the conference.  YPF Chief Executive Officer Miguel Galuccio, seeking
partners to help finance projects that would revert declining
output, said Sept. 1 he is willing to form a partnership with
Pemex to develop deposits in the Vaca Muerta shale formation.
While the two companies have held informal talks, Pemex’s board
would need a formal offer from YPF to analyze, Ruiz said.  After the nationalized YPF sealed its first shale accord
with  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  on July 16, Galuccio said Argentina needs
more investors like the  San Ramon , California-based company to
stop a production decline that contributed to the biggest plunge
in central reserves since 2002.  YPF  American depositary receipts  rose 1.8 percent to $17.89
at 12:01 p.m. in  New York , the highest level since April 16,
2012, the day President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  announced
the nationalization. Chevron gained 0.4 percent to $121.83,
while Repsol added 0.7 percent in Madrid.  Repsol Opposition  Pemex is a minority shareholder in Repsol, which is
lobbying against prospective Vaca Muerta partnerships. The
Madrid-based producer rejected on June 25 an expropriation
compensation offer that included a 47 percent stake in a Vaca
Muerta project valued by Argentina at $3.5 billion, as well as
$1.5 billion for development, according to a regulatory filing.  Repsol has filed lawsuits in Madrid and New York seeking
$10.5 billion in compensation for the seizure.  “We don’t agree with Repsol’s approach to potential YPF
deals and regarding this particular potential JV as state-owned
companies have their right to discuss their energy policies,”
Ruiz said. “I hope they don’t react by opposing once we receive
a formal offer from YPF.”  Kristian Rix, a Repsol spokesman in Madrid, declined to
comment on Ruiz’s comments regarding Repsol’s approach to 
potential YPF partnerships.   Repsol filed a request in July to the International Center
for Settlement of Investment Disputes, asking the arbitrator to
instruct Argentina to abstain from developing strategic YPF 
assets seized from the Spanish oil producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net  