-- PetroChina to ‘Vigorously’ Contest U.S. Investor Lawsuit
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2013-09-06T21:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/petrochina-to-vigorously-contest-u-s-investor-lawsuit.html
PetroChina Co. (857) , the nation’s biggest
energy company, will “vigorously” contest a lawsuit filed by
an investor in the U.S. that claims it failed to disclose
corruption, exposing it to government investigations.  PetroChina and individual defendants named in the suit
haven’t received any formal documentation of the complaint, the
company said in a filing to the Hong Kong stock exchange
yesterday. It will “closely follow the progress of the
complaint and disclose the relevant information in a timely
manner in accordance with regulatory requirements,” according
to the statement.  The former chairman of the state-owned company, Jiang Jiemin, who left PetroChina in March, was removed from his post
as head of the state assets regulator and is under
investigation, the official Xinhua News Agency said Sept. 2.
Five days earlier, PetroChina said it removed four senior
managers after authorities started a probe.  PetroChina’s stock fell the most in two years on Aug. 28 in
Hong Kong after  China  signaled it had widening its anti-corruption campaign to include executives at the company.  Johan Broux, an investor in  Belgium , filed the complaint in
Manhattan federal court on Sept. 4, seeking to represent all
buyers of PetroChina securities from April 26, 2012, to Aug. 27
of this year.  In addition to PetroChina, the complaint identifies as
defendants Chairman and President Zhou Jiping, Chief Financial
Officer Yu Yibo, and two former company executives -- ex-CFO
Zhou Mingchun and former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Jiang Jiemin . Broux seeks unspecified damages.  The company’s operations “are not affected” by the legal
action, according to the statement.  Shares closed unchanged at HK$8.70 in Hong Kong yesterday,
compared with a 0.1 percent gain in the city’s Hang Seng Index.
The stock has dropped 21 percent this year, compared with a 0.2
percent decline in the benchmark.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  