-- Pimco’s Gross Says Fed Will Still Taper After Jobs Report
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-09-06T17:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/pimco-s-gross-says-fed-will-taper-despite-jobs-report.html
Bill Gross , manager of the world’s
biggest bond mutual fund, said Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will go ahead with a plan to reduce the central bank’s
unprecedented asset purchases despite a disappointing jobs
report.  “I think Bernanke and company are committed to a taper,”
Gross, co-founder of Pacific Investment Management Co., said
today in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with
 Tom Keene . “It will be taper lite as opposed to a strong
tapering.”  Payrolls in the U.S. climbed less than projected in August
after smaller gains the prior two months, indicating companies
are being deliberate in their hiring as they wait for a pickup
in demand. The gain of 169,000 workers last month followed a
revised 104,000 rise in July that was smaller than initially
estimated, Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington .
The median forecast of 96 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for an August increase of 180,000. Unemployment dropped
to 7.3 percent, the lowest since December 2008.  Treasuries rose as investors curbed bets that the Fed will
start to reduce its $85 billion monthly pace of bond purchases
at its Sept. 17-18 meeting. The benchmark U.S. 10-year yield
fell 9 basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 2.90 percent
at 1:02 p.m. in New York. The yield earlier touched 3.01
percent, breaching 3 percent for the first time since July 2011.  Challenging Market  The Fed will probably reduce its assets purchases by $10
billion and focus on Treasury bonds, said Gross, who’s also co-chief investment officer, along with Mohamed El-Erian, of the
Newport Beach, California-based firm.  Top bond managers from Gross to  Jeffrey Gundlach  and  Dan
Fuss  have seen their funds shrink after Bernanke raised the
possibility in May that the central bank would begin to scale
back bond purchases. Gross’s $251  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX) 
contracted by more than $41 billion, or 14 percent of its
assets, in the past four months through losses and investor
withdrawals.  Bond managers are being challenged in ways they never have
been, Gross said in the interview. While Pimco is seeing
withdrawals from the Total Return fund, investors are adding
money to other strategies, such as the  Pimco Unconstrained Bond
Fund (PUBAX) , he said.  Pimco Total Return currently has 10 percent of assets, or
about $25 billion, in cash, Gross said.  “There are no great choices for the Fed at this point,”
El-Erian said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“In the Loop” with  Betty Liu . “Today’s number tells you that
we’re still in second gear, even though the U.S. can be driven
at a much higher speed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  