-- Pine River China Fund to Start With as Much as $150 Million
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-09-06T01:59:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/pine-river-china-fund-to-start-with-as-much-as-150-million.html
Pine River Capital Management LP,
manager of one of the most profitable U.S.  hedge funds  last
year, will start a  China  fund with as much as $150 million in
October, a marketing document seen by  Bloomberg News  showed.  Pine River China Fund will employ strategies including
equity long-short, relative-value credit, event driven,
convertible bond and quantitative arbitrage, according to the
document. It will also exploit valuation gaps between yuan-denominated shares traded in China and Hong Kong-quoted China
stocks, it added.  Pine River, which has had an Asia fund since 2004 focused
on convertible arbitrage, is broadening its regional trading
after profits and assets have swelled. The company more than
doubled its assets to $13.6 billion as of July 1 from August
2011, according to the document.  The Pine River Fixed Income Fund, overseen by Steve Kuhn,
returned 35 percent last year, in part by investing in mortgage
bonds. The performance placed it second among hedge funds with
at least $1 billion, according to rankings by Bloomberg Markets.  Patrick Clifford , a New York-based spokesman for Pine River
at Abernathy MacGregor Group, declined to comment on the plans
because of their private nature.  Relative-Value Strategy  Relative value strategies seek to profit from valuation
gaps of related securities without betting on market direction.  The multistrategy relative-value China fund is expected to
start with at least $100 million, according to the document,
which didn’t identify the source of the initial capital. It will
be led by Dan Li, one of 16 Pine River partners globally and co-ahead of Asian trading of the Minnetonka, Minnesota-based
company, it added.  Kuhn was sent by his former employer Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. to China in 2005 to educate employees of sovereign-wealth
funds and the central bank on the U.S. mortgage market. He also
taught finance at Tsinghua and Peking Universities during his
stay in the country.  Pine River last year hired Li from competitor Magnetar
Capital LLC, the hedge-fund manager that profited from subprime
defaults in 2007, according to the document. Li was a managing
director at Magnetar between 2005 and 2011, heading its China
business and financial engineering group, the document said. He
was a director at Citadel LLC before Magnetar.  Pine River has 70 employees working on research, software
development and trading in Beijing, Shenzhen and  Hong Kong , said
a person with knowledge of the matter late last month. Its Asia
fund now manages about $270 million in net assets, the person
said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  