-- Polish Bonds Poised for Worst Week Since June on Pensions Revamp
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i   a n d   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-09-06T12:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/polish-bonds-poised-for-worst-week-since-june-on-pensions-revamp.html
Polish bonds and stocks headed for
the biggest weekly loss in 11 after Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s
cabinet proposed to exclude pension funds from the local
government  bond market  to curb public debt.  Yields on 10-year  government bonds  rose nine basis points,
or 0.09 percentage point, to 4.95 percent, extending their surge
this week to 51 basis points, the most since June 21. A fifth
day of advances in yields took them to the highest level in
almost a year. The  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  rose 1 percent to 2,224.92 at
12:31 p.m. in Warsaw, after slumping 4.6 percent yesterday and
set for a 6.7 percent retreat this week, the worst five-day
performance since June 21.  Poland will take over and cancel government debt held by
privately-managed pension funds, which will also be banned from
purchasing the securities, Tusk said Sept. 4. The government
will not seize stocks held by the funds and workers’ future
contributions will be voluntary, he said.  Changes to the pension system “seem to be negative” for
the bond market and “potentially negative” for equities and
the zloty, economists at PKO Bank Polski SA, the country’s
largest lender, wrote in a note today.  The revamp “will increase the share of foreign investors
holding local bonds,” leading to a “significant deterioration
of liquidity on this market,” according to PKO.  The spike in yields and slump in stocks are the steepest
since the week ended June 21, when Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  said the U.S. central bank may taper its monthly
purchases of assets later this year, sparking a global sell-off
in assets.  The zloty gained less than 0.1 percent to 4.2968 per euro,
after sliding 1 percent in the last three days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  