-- Potash Chief to Remain in Belarus Prison as Court Rejects Plea
-- B y   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-09-06T09:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/potash-chief-to-remain-in-belarus-prison-as-court-rejects-plea.html
Belarus will keep Vladislav Baumgertner, the chief executive officer of Russian potash
producer  OAO Uralkali (URKA) , in detention in Minsk after a judge
rejected a plea from lawyers for his release.  Under Judge Natalia Pykina’s ruling, Baumgertner must
remain in Belarus while an investigation into alleged abuse of
office is underway. His legal team will challenge the decision
to leave Baumgertner’s status unchanged, Dmitry Goryachko, the
Russian executive’s lawyer, said at the courthouse.  Baumgertner’s detention on Aug. 26 stems from the July
decision to end a marketing joint venture with Belarus’s
Belaruskali, plunging the former  Soviet Union ’s two largest
potash producers into a dispute and roiling the $20 billion
global market for the crop nutrient. He was taken into custody
at the Minsk airport after being invited to talks by Belarus
Prime Minister Mikhail Myasnikovich.  Uralkali quit the Belarusian Potash Co. joint venture
because Belarus “violated” their agreement by allowing
Belaruskali to export some of its potash independently, the
Russian company said at the time. Uralkali said it would work at
full capacity, a strategy that would lead to a decline in potash
prices.  Uralkali shares fell in  London .  Belarus charged Baumgertner, who is also chairman of BPC,
with abuse of office. He faces as long as 10 years in prison and
may forfeit property if convicted.  European Ban  The case was heard by Pykina in the Partizanskiy district
court in Minsk. Along with President  Alexander Lukashenko , she
is among Belarusian officials barred from entering the European
Union after her 2011 sentencing of an opposition activist to 3
1/2 years’ imprisonment in a high security prison.  Baumgertner’s Moscow-based lawyer, Alexey Basistov, said in
a Sept. 4 interview his legal team would argue that were no
grounds for the CEO’s detention and that he should be freed, or
at least the terms of his confinement should be eased.  Guarantees in support of Baumgertner’s release were
provided by Viktor Basargin, the governor of  Russia ’s Perm
region, and Igor Barinov, a deputy from the ruling United Russia
party in the lower house of parliament, Basistov said.
Uralkali’s potash mines and production plants are in Perm.  Belarus is seeking to arrest Uralkali billionaire investor
Suleiman Kerimov and four other employees of the fertilizer
producer through Interpol.  Russia, which led a $3 billion bailout loan to Belarus in
2011, has called for Baumgertner’s release. The government
expects Belarus to comply within the “coming days,”  Yuri Ushakov , a Kremlin foreign policy aide, told reporters on Aug.
30 in Moscow. Belarus is scheduled to receive the final $440
million of the Russian-led emergency funding by the end of the
year.  Uralkali has repeatedly rejected all of Belarus’s
allegations against Baumgertner and its other employees. The
company will seek help from “appropriate Russian authorities”
to help stop “politically motivated persecution” of its staff,
it said this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk, Belarus at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  