-- Property Stocks Drop Amid Olympic Decision Concerns: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-09-06T07:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/property-stocks-drop-amid-olympic-decision-concerns-tokyo-mover.html
Japan ’s property stocks, including
 Mitsubishi Estate Co. (8802) , had the biggest drop in three weeks amid
concerns that Tokyo will not be selected to host the 2020
Olympics Games this weekend.  The 45-member Topix Real Estate Index declined as much as
2.3 percent, the biggest loss since Aug. 15. The index was the
worst performer among 33 groups that make up the benchmark Topix
index. Mitsubishi Estate, Japan’s second-biggest developer,
declined 2.5 percent, while  Sumitomo Realty & Development Co. (8830) 
lost 1.4 percent.  Tokyo is the odds-on favorite to host the 2020 Olympic
Games, according to OddsChecker.com, a website that gathers
online gambling data. The city, which last hosted the Olympics
in 1964, has 44 percent of the bets placed,  Madrid  is second
with a 29 percent chance of winning the Summer Games, followed
by Istanbul with 24 percent, it showed.  “There’s the risk that Tokyo may not win the bid to host
the Olympics, so investors are going to lean toward profit-taking in the construction and real estate sectors,” said
Masahiro Ayukai, a senior strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co. “If Japan loses its bid for the
Olympics, then stocks for which a sure win had been priced-in
are likely to reverse gains.”  The index tracking real estate stocks has gained 48 percent
this year, making it the fifth-best performer among the 33
industry groups, in part on optimism that should  Tokyo  be
selected to host the Olympic Games developers would benefit from
increased demand.  The Topix Construction Index declined 1 percent, trimming
its year-to-date advance to 23 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  