-- Putin’s Top Aide Says Freeze on Utility Prices May Win Backing
-- B y   E v g e n i a   P i s m e n n a y a
-- 2013-09-06T16:14:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/putin-s-top-aide-says-freeze-on-utility-prices-may-win-backing.html
President  Vladimir Putin ’s top
economic aide is looking at backing a proposed freeze on price
growth for natural gas, power and rail monopolies next year as
the Russian government seeks to control inflation.  The government’s planned moratorium is “much stronger”
than what had proposed in June to help rein in inflation and
stimulate the economy, Kremlin aide Andrei Belousov said today
in a phone interview. The proposals must still be discussed, and
some conditions set in place, he said.  Putin, who is hosting a summit of Group of 20 leaders in
his hometown of  St. Petersburg  this week, is seeking measures to
jolt  Russia ’s economy out of the worst economic slowdown since
Russia’s 2009 recession. Inflation has outpaced the central
bank’s target of 5 percent to 6 percent for 12 months.  “Tariff growth needs to be lowered gradually,”  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of research at BNP Paribas SA’s Moscow unit,
said by phone. “However, the proposed plan is very radical and
may create a shock.”  Gross domestic product expanded 1.2 percent from a year
earlier in April through June, according to data today from the
Federal Statistics Service. Economic growth has slowed every
quarter since the final three months of 2011. In August, the
Economy Ministry lowered this year’s forecast to 1.8 percent,
compared with a 2.4 percent projection in April.  Gazprom, Railways  Belousov said he’s attaching three conditions to support
the plan. The regulated natural gas fees that OAO Gazprom
charges pipemakers, cement producers and other “fundamental”
industrial consumers should be frozen; the plan for OAO Russian
Railways should be coordinated with the monopoly’s financial
program to avoid pushing it into a loss; and the government
should create a way to control the growth of power tariffs for
end users, he said.  The state companies -- Gazprom, Russian Railways and
electricity network OAO Russian Grids -- and the Energy Ministry
oppose the measures, according to two people involved in the
talks, who asked not to be identified as the matter isn’t
settled. A moratorium is unlikely to be decided by Sept. 9, when
the government is scheduled to present forecasts on the tariff
plan to Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev , they said.  “All the government’s work to create drivers for economic
growth would collapse,”  Vladimir Yakunin , the head of Russian
Railways, said by phone. “The investment program would be cut
radically and plans to use infrastructure bonds and oil funds
dropped because Russian Railways wouldn’t have funds to service
the debt.”  Economic Risk  Lowering utilities’ fees will help remove a driver that
distorts inflation, while a moratorium raises the risk that the
monopolies will cut investments sharply, hindering economic
expansion, BNP’s Tsepliaeva said. Tariff growth accounts for
about one-third of inflation, while monetary factors contribute
the rest, she said.  In June, Putin called for utilities’ fees to be limited for
five years to the level of consumer price growth.  The government’s proposal will affect investment programs
in nominal terms, Prime reported, citing Finance Minister Anton
Siluanov. Siluanov backed the moratorium, the news service said.  While the proposed measures are “too harsh,” a one-year
freeze may help during the current economic slowdown, former
Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said today at the G-20 meeting
with Putin in St. Petersburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Evgenia Pismennaya in Moscow at 
 epismennaya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  