-- Putin Says Russia to Continue Helping Assad If U.S. Strikes
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-09-06T15:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/putin-says-russia-to-continue-helping-assad-if-u-s-strikes-1-.html
Russia  will keep on supporting
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s government if the U.S.
launches strikes against the Middle East country, President
 Vladimir Putin  said.  “Will we help Syria? We will,” Putin told reporters in
St. Petersburg today after discussing the Syrian issue with U.S.
President  Barack Obama  and other world leaders at a Group of 20
summit. “We are already helping them with weapons and we are
cooperating in the economic and humanitarian spheres.”  Putin is resisting Obama’s drive to drum up support for a
military strike in Syria, without saying how far he will go in
supporting Assad. When asked if Putin would rule out Russia’s
direct involvement in a Syrian conflict, his spokesman  Dmitry Peskov  said “we don’t know how things will pan out.”  The Russian leader signaled on the eve of the two-day
summit that his country may resume deliveries of S-300 anti-aircraft missiles to Syria if Obama carries through on his
threat to attack selected targets to punish Assad for allegedly
using chemical weapons.  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  on Aug. 26 said his
country “won’t fight with anyone” when asked about a possible
reaction to Western strikes against Syria.  Russia, which has embarked this decade on the largest
rearmament program in more than 20 years, maintains its only
military base outside of the former  Soviet Union  at the Syrian
port of Tartus.  Navy Deployment  The country has been reinforcing its naval presence in the
east Mediterranean near Syria while Obama used the G-20 meeting
to enlist support for an attack. Most countries in the group
oppose such action, Putin said.  Obama is also facing an uphill task to win the backing of
Congress. Russia and China say they are unswayed by the U.S.
assertions blaming Assad for the Aug. 21 chemical attack that
the U.S. says killed more than 1,400 people near Damascus. Putin
said today the attack was “provocations” by rebels involved in
a 2 1/2 civil war that has left more than 100,000 dead.  European and U.S. stocks declined after Putin’s comments.
The Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped as much as 0.5 percent from
yesterday’s close, before rebounding to trade up 0.3 percent at
305.54 at 3:45 p.m. in London. The  S&P 500  fell as much as 0.9
percent and traded 0.3 percent lower at 1,650.59 at 10:47 a.m in
New York.  Putin said this week that congressional approval would
“legitimize aggression,” adding that only the United Nations
 Security Council  can endorse the strikes. Putin, whose country
wields a veto as a permanent member of the Security Council,
said he needs proof that the Syrian government used chemical
weapons to back action.  “Russia may step up military assistance to Syria” in case
of an attack,  Fyodor Lukyanov , head of the Moscow-based Council
on Foreign and Defense Policy, said by phone. “Putin doesn’t
consider that the demonization of Assad places him under any
obligation to limit cooperation with him.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in  St. Petersburg  at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in St. Petersburg at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net  