-- Record NFL 10-Year Worst-to-First Streak Seen Extended by Saints
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-06T04:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/record-nfl-10-year-worst-to-first-streak-seen-extended-by-saints.html
All-Pro quarterback  Drew Brees  said
it feels normal around the  New Orleans Saints  now that coach
 Sean Payton  is back from a one-year National Football League
suspension. Winning the division would prove it.  The Saints tied for last place in 2012 in the National
Football Conference South after finishing first two of the
previous three years. A return to the top in 2013 would continue
the record NFL 10-year streak of at least one team winning its
division the season after finishing last.  Brees’s Saints, with Payton back from a ban for his role in
what the NFL said was a bounty program that paid players for
injuring opponents, have the best chance for the worst-to-first
turnaround, according to oddsmakers.  “It’s all about football,” said Brees, who’s passed for
more than 5,000 yards each of the past two seasons with a
combined 89 touchdown passes. “There is nothing else swirling
around, or at least nothing else we are going to allow to
distract us.”  The  Washington Redskins  were last season’s turnaround team,
winning their final seven regular-season games to capture the
NFC East with a 10-6 record following a 3-6 start. The Redskins
went 5-11 in 2011.  Of the 40 teams in NFL history to go from worst-to-first
within their division, 19 have come since 2001.  Financial Boost  The NFL’s division champions not only get to host a playoff
game, they reap the financial boost of that extra home date,
with an estimated economic impact of up to $20 million per game
depending on the city, according to  Andrew Zimbalist , an
economist at  Smith College  in Northampton, Massachusetts, who
has written 12 books on the business of sports.  “It certainly benefits a team from an economic
standpoint,” former Oakland Raiders Chief Executive Officer Amy Trask, now a CBS NFL analyst, said by phone. “It helps with
your suite sales, merchandise sales, and of course you don’t
have all the travel-related costs.”  The Saints missed the playoffs with a 7-9 record last
season without Payton and tied the  Carolina Panthers  and Tampa
Bay Buccaneers behind the Atlanta Falcons in the NFC South.
Among teams that finished last, or tied for last, a year ago,
the Saints have the best odds of winning a division title, at 9-5, according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book, second only to
the Falcons (6-5) in the NFC South.  The Buccaneers are next, with 11-2 odds of winning the
division after an offseason in which they acquired Pro Bowl
cornerback  Darrelle Revis  from the  New York Jets  and gave him a
six-year contract worth $96 million, making him one of the
league’s highest-paid non-quarterbacks.  Jets’ Questions  Three teams that finished at the bottom of their division
have worse odds of winning a division title this year than
Revis’s former team.  The Jets, after going 6-10 in 2012, have 14-1 odds this
season to take the title in the American Football Conference’s
East division, where the  New England Patriots  are 1-3 favorites.  The Jets’ biggest issue is at quarterback, with  Mark Sanchez  nursing a shoulder injury after totaling an NFL-high 52
turnovers the past two seasons, and rookie Geno Smith coming off
a three-interception performance in the team’s preseason finale.
Coach Rex Ryan said Smith will start in the opener against the
Buccaneers.  “He looked like he was lost,” said former Jets
quarterback Boomer Esiason, now a CBS analyst. “The real
question remains as to whether or not he is legitimately
ready.”  Vick’s Confidence  Like the Jets, the Eagles have the longest odds in their
division to win a title, yet there’s more optimism for a
turnaround in Philadelphia as Chip Kelly makes his NFL coaching
debut. While the Eagles’ chances trail the  New York Giants ,
 Dallas Cowboys  and Redskins at 17-4, they’re tied for the third-best among teams that finished in last place a year ago.  The Eagles will have quarterback  Michael Vick  run the fast-paced offense Kelly used at the  University of Oregon  to post a
46-7 record and make four straight Bowl Championship Series bowl
games. Vick said Kelly’s arrival has helped him regain his
confidence after a season in which the four-time Pro Bowl
selection had a 3-7 record as a starter, was benched in favor of
rookie Nick Foles and suffered a concussion.  “When things don’t go well and when everybody is pointing
the finger at you, it can hurt your confidence,” Vick said.
“When I first sat down with Coach Kelly, his main concern was
to help me get back in tip-top shape, and get me to the point
where I am comfortable and can believe in myself again.”  Super Bowl  The  Denver Broncos  are the favorite to win the  Super Bowl ,
with 5-1 odds, according to the LVH Super Book. They beat the
defending Super Bowl champions Baltimore Ravens 49-27 last night
in the season’s opening game. The Broncos are followed by the
Seattle Seahawks and  San Francisco 49ers  at 6-1, the  Green Bay
Packers  (9-1), the Patriots (10-1), the Houston Texans (12-1)
and the  Atlanta Falcons  (16-1).  The Saints, winners of the Super Bowl following the 2009
season, are just behind the Falcons with 18-1 Super Bowl odds.  “It’s just back to normal,” Saints General Manager Mickey Loomis said. “We have 2012 in our rearview mirror and we are
just looking ahead. It’s probably a little fresher excitement
than it would be ordinarily because of what happened a year ago.
I think we are all a little bit more focused than we would have
been otherwise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  