-- RWE Climbs Most in 2 Years on Renewables Study: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-09-06T16:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/rwe-climbs-most-in-5-years-on-renewables-study-frankfurt-mover.html
RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s largest power
producer, led gains in the nation’s utilities in  Frankfurt  as a
government adviser raised the possibility of limits on subsidies
for renewable energy, leading to higher electricity prices.  The Essen, Germany-based company advanced 6.4 percent, the
most since October 2011, to close at 23.275 euros in Frankfurt
trading while rival EON SE gained 4.9 percent to 12.705 euros.  Germany should adopt  Sweden ’s subsidy system to boost
competition and curb the cost of expanding solar and wind power,
the Monopolkommission said in a study. Germany must stop
subsidizing clean-power generators when prices on electricity
exchanges turn negative, it said.  “The recommendation of the Monopolkommission awakes the
hope that the EEG subsidy system will be radically changed after
the federal elections and that the expansion of renewables will
be controlled more strongly in the future,” Sven Diermeier, an
analyst at Independent Research GmbH, said by phone from
Frankfurt. He also cited the possibility that the Green party
won’t join the government after the Sept. 22 election.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has vowed to change clean-power
subsidy laws after the election. A proliferation of renewable-energy ventures has exceeded government forecasts, driving up
costs for consumers. The tariff that Germans have to pay to
finance such projects jumped to a record this year.  Today’s jump to a three-month high in German power for
delivery next year suggests “the floor has been reached,”
Guido Hoymann, a B. Metzler Seel Sohn & Co. KGaA analyst, said
from Frankfurt. That makes power generation more profitable.  Sweden has a quota model requiring utilities to supply
fixed levels of renewable power or buy tradable credits to make
up the difference. Germany, which is phasing out nuclear
reactors, hands uncapped subsidy payments to renewable projects,
with the level varying depending on the energy source.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  