-- Striking S. Africa Gold Miners Return to Work on 8% Offer
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-09-06T16:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/s-african-gold-strikers-returning-to-work-as-pay-offer-revised.html
More than 60,000 South African gold
miners began resuming work last night after a 48-hour strike as
they accepted an 8 percent pay increase from companies including
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. and Sibanye Gold Ltd.  The increase to 5,400 rand ($540) a month for entry-level
pay is 33 percent below the 8,000 rand demanded by the  National
Union of Mineworkers , which represents two-thirds of gold
miners. The offer has been accepted by most NUM members, except
those working at some of Harmony Gold Mining Co.’s mines,
spokesman  Lesiba Seshoka  said.  Agreeing to the proposal brings nearer the end of a strike
that may have cost the industry as much as 349 million rand ($34
million) a day in sales, according to the Chamber of Mines,
which represents companies. The Association of Mineworkers and
Construction Union, an NUM rival that speaks for 20 percent of
the industry’s 107,000 gold employees, is yet to see the offer
and is meeting Sept. 8 to discuss its response, President Joseph Mathunjwa said. The AMCU has asked for 12,500 rand a month.  The wage deal is “a little more than employers would have
preferred,” the chamber’s chief negotiator, Elize Strydom, said
in the statement. “The agreement has helped us prevent a longer
period of damaging industrial action and remains a reasonably
balanced outcome in terms of affordability and jobs
preservation.”  Workers ‘Happy’  “The workers themselves are saying they are happy,”
Seshoka said.  Employees who are not entry-level or rock drill operators
will receive a 7.5 percent increase backdated to July 1, the
chamber said in an e-mailed statement. Inflation-linked
increases from July 2014 and a housing allowance increase to
2,000 rand from 1,640 rand are also included in the agreement,
the chamber said.  South Africa ’s annual  consumer price inflation rate  was 6.3
percent in July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sibanye CEO Neal Froneman said any increase above CPI isn’t
sustainable in the long-run on Aug. 13.  AngloGold’s six mines reported normal shifts, according to
the NUM’s Seshoka and an update posted on the chamber’s website.
The company is focusing on resuming output safely, it said in a
statement. Two of Sibanye’s three sites are operating today and
the remaining mine will resume operations this evening,
spokesman James Wellsted said.  Pay Demands  The NUM called a strike on Sept. 3 after employers failed
to meet pay demands for as much as 60 percent more than the
current 5,000 rand a month of entry-level pay.  The chamber said Aug. 29 that its offer for a 6 percent to
6.5 percent raise was final.  Gold production is still being hindered by the pay dispute.
Ten of Harmony’s 11 operations continue to be affected by the
strike, Marian van der Walt, a spokeswoman, said by phone.
Workers at Gold Fields Ltd.’s South Deep mine aren’t yet back at
work, Sven Lunsche, a company spokesman, said by phone, adding
that they may report for duty later today.  Mines where the AMCU has the biggest membership continued
to operate normally, the chamber said. The AMCU is the largest
union at AngloGold’s Mponeng, Harmony’s Kusasalethu and
Sibanye’s Driefontein sites. The three mines are the companies’
biggest South African operations.  The AMCU is bound to accept the wage deal agreed by NUM
members at mines where it is the minority labor representative
Mathunjwa said. It isn’t compelled to agree to the proposal at
Mponeng, Kusasalethu and Driefontein, he said.  This week’s strike may cost the industry about 597 million
rand a day in sales, lost wages, and taxes, the chamber says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  