-- S. Korea Party Seeks to Expel Lawmaker Accused in Rebellion Plot
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-09-06T02:17:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/s-korea-party-seeks-to-expel-lawmaker-accused-in-rebellion-plot.html
South Korea ’s ruling party is
seeking to expel a minor opposition lawmaker from parliament
after a court ordered his arrest on suspicion of leading a plot
to overthrow the government.  The ruling Saenuri Party, which has 153 seats in the 300-member National Assembly, will submit a motion today calling for
the removal of Lee Seok Ki, its spokesman Yoo Il Ho said by
phone.  Lee was arrested last night on suspicion of leading a May
meeting where members of his United Progressive Party talked
about stealing firearms and destroying infrastructure in the
South in the event of war with  North Korea . During his transfer
to a jail after a court issued an arrest warrant for him last
night, Lee shouted to reporters that the allegation against him
amounted to a “complete fabrication.”  “If what Lee is accused of is true, the public simply
can’t accept it,” Lee Ho Chul, a political science professor at
Incheon National University, said by phone. “But if authorities
fail to prove their allegations in the coming trial, it could
spell trouble for them and the government.”  South and North Korea share a heavily armed border and
remain technically at war after their 1950-53  Korean War  ended
in a truce.  Lee was sentenced to two and a half years in prison in 2003
for his role in a pro-North Korean organization. He was later
pardoned. South Korean lawmakers tried and failed last year to
oust him from parliament after his own party found
irregularities in its primaries.  Election Meddling  Expelling Lee from parliament would require approval from
two thirds of lawmakers, Yoo said. Earlier this week, the
National Assembly, in which the UPP has six seats, voted to lift
Lee’s immunity to clear the way for the  National Intelligence
Service  and prosecutors to take him into custody for
questioning.  The allegation against Lee and his party has the effect of
shifting public and media attention away from the NIS’s alleged
intervention in presidential elections last year, professor Lee
said.  Former NIS chief Won Sei Hoon is being tried on charges of
meddling in the elections in which Park Geun Hye won the
presidency. Agents from the intelligence agency allegedly posted
comments that criticized opposition figures and praised Park in
a bid to influence the outcome.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  