-- TSA Workers Arrested for Using Stolen DFW Parking Passes
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-09-06T21:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/tsa-workers-arrested-for-using-stolen-dfw-parking-passes.html
Eight U.S. Transportation Security
Administration employees were among nine people arrested in
connection with stolen parking passes at  Dallas /Fort Worth
International Airport, police said today.  Airport police found stolen airline employee-parking
placards had been sold for $100 each to TSA workers. The passes
would normally cost $34 a month or $400 a year, according to a
police statement.  The passes were among 129 that went missing from an
American Eagle Airlines Inc. office inside an airport terminal
in March. An airline employee has been arrested on a felony
charge involving the theft of the passes, police said. The
carrier is a unit of American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)   TSA misconduct, and the agency’s handling of it, has been a
concern in Congress. The Government Accountability Office said
in a July 31 report the agency hasn’t been consistent in meting
out discipline for infractions ranging from sleeping on the job
to stealing travelers’ laptops from security lines.  One TSA employee faces a felony charge of theft for selling
the placards to colleagues, police said. The other six
government workers face misdemeanor charges for using the stolen
passes. The airport didn’t release names of the arrested
employees, saying the investigation was continuing.  David Castelveter , a TSA spokesman, said the agency is
cooperating with the airport’s investigation. The eight
employees have been placed on indefinite suspension without pay,
he said.  “TSA does not tolerate any form of unethical or unlawful
behavior by its employees and takes appropriate disciplinary
action,” Castelveter said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  