-- Shell to Pay U.S. $1.1 Million for Arctic Air Pollution
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-09-06T14:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/shell-to-pay-u-s-1-1-million-for-arctic-air-pollution.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  agreed to pay
$1.1 million for violating permits regulating air pollution from
its oil-exploration fleet in the  Arctic Ocean  last year.  The settlement  announced  by the Environmental Protection
Agency said that vessels scouting for oil in Alaska’s Beaufort
and Chukchi seas for two months in 2012 didn’t use all mandated
pollution-control or monitoring equipment. The EPA had set the
requirements as a condition for issuing a permit for Shell’s
Arctic exploration.  “Based on EPA’s inspections and Shell’s excess emission
reports, EPA documented numerous air permit violations for
Shell’s Discoverer and Kulluk drill ship fleets,” the  agency ’s
Seattle office said in a statement late yesterday.  Shell suspended its Arctic operations after a series of
mishaps in 2012 as it sought oil off  Alaska ’s North Coast. In
December, the drill ship Kulluk broke free of a tow boat in a
storm and was stranded on an uninhabited Alaska island. In
September, a containment dome designed to cap spills had
difficulty getting certified and was damaged during tests.  The air permit violations are a separate from the failed
tow and containment device. The fines are $710,000 related to
the Discoverer and $390,000 for the Kulluk, the EPA said.  “Shell accepted stringent emission limits that were based
on assumptions and modeling,” Kelly op de Weegh, a Shell
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “Following a season of
operations we now better understand how emissions control
equipment actually functions in Arctic conditions.”  “The EPA did not allege any negative impact from Shell’s
emissions to local populations, nor did Shell exceed its overall
allowable annual emissions for the operating season,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  