-- Shipping Index Surges Most Since 2010 as Ore and Grains Climb
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-09-06T15:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/shipping-index-surges-most-since-2010-as-ore-grain-cargoes-rise.html
The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of
commodity-shipping costs, had its biggest weekly gain since
August 2010 as strengthening demand to haul cargoes from iron
ore to grains lifted freight rates.  The gauge advanced 5.7 percent to 1,352 today, taking the
weekly climb to 19 percent, data from the Baltic Exchange in
 London  showed. Costs for all four ship types within the measure
advanced this week, led by a 43 percent rally to $21,793 a day
for Capesizes, the largest iron-ore carriers.  Increasing steel output in China is boosting demand for
vessels delivering iron ore, a raw material for making the
alloy, according to Dominic Meredith Hardy, an analyst at
Galbraith’s Ltd., a London-based shipbroker. The Asian country
is the biggest buyer of the ore. Global agricultural exports
including soybeans and grains will rise to a near-record this
year, the U.S. Department of Agriculture predicts.  “We’ve seen pretty large amounts of iron ore, coal, grains
and mineral cargoes including nickel ore,” said  Jeffrey Landsberg , the New York-based managing director of Commodore
Research & Consultancy, an adviser to ship owners. “That’s
helping freight rates across the board.”  Daily returns for Panamaxes, the biggest ships to navigate
the Panama Canal, gained 6.3 percent to $8,158 today and 13
percent this week, the exchange data showed. Russian wheat
exports are poised to rise because of the September harvest,
increasing the supply of grain cargoes, according to Commodore.  Freight Swaps  Freight swaps used to bet on, or hedge, the cost of hiring
Panamaxes in 2014 exceeded $10,000 a day for the first time this
year, according to Clarkson Securities Ltd., a unit of Clarkson
Plc, the world’s largest shipbroker. The contracts anticipate a
rate of $10,125, 13 percent more than a week ago.  The 12-member Bloomberg Dry Bulk Shipping Index jumped 14
percent this week by 4:50 p.m. London time, set for the biggest
weekly gain since April 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Pacific Basin Shipping Ltd., with the gauge’s heaviest
weighting, extended this year’s increase to 17 percent.  The Panamax fleet is still expanding more quickly than any
other in the dry-bulk market, capping returns for owners,
Commodore’s Landsberg said. Outstanding orders for new vessels
at shipyards equate to 24 percent of the existing fleet,
compared with 16 percent for Capesizes, according to data from
IHS Maritime, a Coulsdon, England-based research company.  Global trade in iron ore will expand 6 percent to 1.17
billion metric tons this year, with  China  accounting for 66
percent of cargoes, Clarkson predicts. Shipping of dry-bulk
commodities will rise 5 percent to 4.3 billion tons, the
shipbroker estimates.  Ore Stockpiles  Charterers booked 36 vessels this week to ship iron ore to
China, more than double the prior period’s 14 ships, according
to Commodore. Inventories of iron ore at Chinese ports fell 22
percent from a year earlier to 76.9 million tons for the week
ended Aug. 30, data from Shanghai Steelhome Information show.  Daily hire rates for Supramax vessels, the largest ships
equipped with cranes, rose 0.7 percent to $10,027 today,
according to the exchange. Handysizes, the smallest ships in the
gauge, added 0.6 percent to $7,688.  “We are seeing strong demand for iron ore,” Meredith
Hardy at Galbraith’s said by e-mail. “Expect this to continue
into the fourth quarter, traditionally a strong season for
Chinese iron-ore imports.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  