-- Slovenia Liquidates Two Banks to Stave Off Cyprus Fate
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-09-06T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/slovenia-liquidates-two-banks-to-stave-off-cyprus-fate.html
Slovenia liquidated two of its
smaller banks,  Probanka d.d.  and Factor Banka d.d., in a move
described by Central Bank Governor Bostjan Jazbec as a
preemptive action to avoid the fate of Cyprus.  “This measures have been taken to stop a possible deposit
withdrawal from other banks,” Jazbec told reporters in the
capital  Ljubljana  yesterday. “The central bank and the
government are trying to avoid the Cyprus scenario.”  Burdened by non-performing loans equaling about a fifth of
the Slovenian economy, the Adriatic nation’s mostly state-owned
banks pushed it to the brink of a bailout in March after
Cyprus’s rescue triggered a sell-off in weaker euro-region
assets.  Factor Banka, based in Ljubljana, and Probanka, based in
the north-eastern city of Maribor, with combined total assets of
about 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion), will faced supervised
liquidation, Jazbec said.  Lenders including Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., Slovenia’s
largest, are struggling under the weight of rising bad loans,
after five quarters of recession pushed overburdened companies
into bankruptcy and depleted lenders’ capital.  “Although an expected step into the right direction, the
move to wind down both banks has been delayed for too long,”
said Andraz Grahek, managing partner at Capital Genetics in
Ljubljana.  Liquidation Costs  The cost of liquidation of Probanka and Factor Banka will
be borne first by owners, followed by holders of subordinated
debt, Finance Minister Uros Cufer said at the joint press
conference with Jazbec yesterday.  Even so, Slovenia will issue state guarantees of 490
million euros for Probanka and 540 million euros for Factor
Banka “that will ensure an unhindered liquidity and normal
fulfillment of obligations of both banks to ordinary
creditors,”  Banka Slovenije  said in an e-mailed statement. The
European Union said the guarantees were given temporary
approval.  Capital Genetics’ Grahek called the state support
“shocking” and questioned why “the failure of two privately
owned banks that are neither material or systemic has prompted
the government to issue guarantees of round 1 billion euros to
provide liquidity and cover losses that should have been taken
by creditors and deposit holders.”  “This is against the concept of the banking union and
transfers unnecessary burden to public finances,” he said. “I
believe this is a mistake that can backfire and shows there is a
state of panic.”  Overhaul Delayed  Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek’s government has delayed a
fix of the bank industry originally planned for the end of June
due to a dispute with the European Union over banks’ capital
needs and the value of their bad assets.  Factor Banka reported a loss of 5.3 million euros in the
first half, compared with a 2.9 million-euro profit a year
earlier. Assets declined 11 percent to 913 million euros at the
end of June from the end of 2012. Among the bank’s owners is
 Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. , Slovenia’s second-biggest
lender, with a 10 percent holding, according to Factor Banka’s
semi-annual report.  Probanka’s first-half loss narrowed to 6.8 million euros
from 12.5 million euros a year earlier. Assets declined 5
percent to 981 million euros.  Cumulative 2013 losses in Slovenia’s bank system reached
215.6 million euros in June, doubling from May, according to
data the central bank released Sept. 2. Loan-loss provisions
rose to 7.54 billion euros, or 16.3 percent of all outstanding
loans, the central bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  