-- Smithfield Receives U.S. Approval for Biggest Chinese Takeover
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h   a n d   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2013-09-06T23:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/smithfield-receives-u-s-regulator-approval-for-shuanghui-deal.html
Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) , the world’s
largest hog and pork producer, said U.S. regulators will allow
the company to be bought by  China ’s Shuanghui International
Holdings Ltd. in what would be the biggest Chinese purchase of a
U.S. firm.  “This transaction will create a leading global animal
protein enterprise,” Zhijun Yang, Chief Executive Officer of
Shuanghui International, said in a joint statement from both
companies released yesterday.  The Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S., or CFIUS,
approved the transaction and it will be voted on by Smithfield
shareholders at the company’s annual meeting Sept. 24. The
government of Ukraine also approved the deal, according to the
statement.  Shuanghui, based in  Hong Kong , said May 29 it would buy
Smithfield for $4.72 billion in a deal that has drawn scrutiny
from senior members of Congress in both U.S. political parties,
including Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a
Democrat from  Montana , and  Orrin Hatch , a Republican from  Utah ,
who had  asked  for a “thorough review” of the plan.  CFIUS blocked at least three transactions in the past four
years that would have resulted in Chinese companies gaining
control of assets near military facilities. Huawei Technologies
Co. and Bain Capital Partners LLC also dropped a bid to buy
computer equipment maker 3Com Corp. in 2008 in the face of
opposition from CFIUS.  The committee, led by the Treasury Department, is made up
of representatives from the Justice, Homeland Security and
Defense departments and five other agencies, any of which might
have particular concerns about a takeover by a given foreign
buyer. Elizabeth Bourassa, a spokeswoman for the Treasury
Department, declined to comment.  Starboard Value  Starboard Value LP, an activist investor, has advocated a
breakup of Smithfield and said Sept. 4 it received interest from
third parties that may want to buy the individual assets of the
world’s largest pork supplier.  Another shareholder Continental Grain Co., also pushed for
a breakup of the Smithfield, Virginia-based company before
saying in June it was satisfied with the Shuanghui bid and
selling its stake.  CFIUS may have considered whether Smithfield’s facilities
are near military bases and other sensitive locations, Stephen Mahinka, an attorney with Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP, said in
May. The panel also may have looked at Smithfield’s part in
feeding into the U.S. food-supply chain, said Farhad Jalinous, a
lawyer at Kaye Scholer LLP in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  