-- South Korea Bans Japanese Fish Imports Over Fukushima Leak
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2013-09-06T10:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/south-korea-bans-imports-of-japanese-fish-over-radiation-concern.html
South Korea  banned imports of fish
caught near the site of the Fukushima nuclear accident over
concerns of radioactive contamination from the plant.  The ban affects marine products from eight prefectures,
including Fukushima, where the 2011 earthquake and tsunami
devastated the plant, causing the worst nuclear accident since
Chernobyl. Some of the fishing grounds were already closed. The
decision came after the Japanese government revealed last month
that 300 tons of contaminated water leaked from the site, with
some making it to the ocean.  “The decision was made as public concerns are growing
after radiation-contaminated water has leaked from the Fukushima
nuclear plant,” Prime Minister Chung Hong Won’s office said in
an e-mailed statement. “It’s uncertain how this situation has
developed in  Japan  and it’s difficult to predict the future only
with the information provided by Japan so far.”  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said this week that he
would end what he called the country’s ad-hoc response to
dealing with Fukushima as the government announced plans to
spend more than $470 million to stop the leaks. The new concerns
about Fukushima may also weigh on Tokyo’s prospects of being
chosen to host the 2020  Summer Olympics . With a decision
expected tomorrow, Tokyo is favored to win though its odds have
declined in recent days, according to betting websites.  Inspection Standards  Japanese food and water are already subjected to the
world’s toughest inspection standards, Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yoshihide Suga said when he was asked about the South Korean
decision at a briefing today in  Tokyo .  “International standards are enforced on Japanese food,
including marine products,” he said. “We have strict safety
management based on that. In cases where tests show radiation is
above the standards, we prevent shipping and so these products
will not be distributed to the market.”  Suga said the radioactive water that leaked into the sea
only affected an area of 0.3 square kilometers (0.12 square
miles) within the bay surrounding the Fukushima plant.  Even within that area, radiation levels are “far below
those permitted,” he said. “There is absolutely no effect.”  The Japanese government is struggling to find ways of
dealing with the hundreds of thousands of tons of contaminated
water building up at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.
The government’s latest plan calls for building an underground
frozen wall to block groundwater from flowing into basements at
the plant and an improved water treatment plant, according to
Trade and Industry Minister Toshimitsu Motegi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in  Hong Kong  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  