-- Sprint’s Banker Promises Are Irrelevant With $6.5 Billion
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-09-06T14:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/sprint-s-banker-promises-irrelevant-in-6-5-billion-sale.html
The  bond market  is helping to make
 Sprint Corp. (S) ’s promises to its bank lenders irrelevant.  The third-largest U.S. wireless carrier, backed by new
majority owner  Softbank Corp. (9984) , said in a regulatory filing
yesterday its $6.5 billion bond sale on Sept. 4 was enough to
violate the terms of its loans “by a significant level” at the
end of the month. While Sprint is in talks with lenders to amend
the leverage covenant, the company also said it has the money to
pay off its loans and cancel $4.5 billion of credit facilities
if it fails to reach an agreement.  Sprint’s willingness to sacrifice its borrowing capacity
including a $3 billion unsecured revolving  credit line  arranged
by Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. underscores the
security provided by Softbank, a company with a $78 billion
market value, three times the size of the U.S. unit. That
enabled Sprint to complete the biggest junk-bond  offering  since
2008 at lower relative yields than it paid a year ago and also
increases the chance it will get the covenant amendment,
according to KDP Investment Advisors Inc.  “A year ago I would’ve said it was dicey,” said Scott Dinsdale, an analyst at Montpelier, Vermont-based KDP. “Now
they’ve gotten their white knight, they’ve gotten equity
infusions already and there’s real financial backing that there
wasn’t before.”  Tighter Spreads  Sprint issued $4.25 billion of 7.875 percent 10-year bonds
that paid 498 basis points, or 4.98 percentage points, more than
similar-maturity Treasuries and $2.25 billion of 7.25 percent
securities due in 2021 at 466 basis points over benchmarks,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Both spreads are
narrower than a year ago, when the carrier paid 568 basis points
more than Treasuries to borrow $1.5 billion for eight years.  The 10-year notes traded at 101.5 cents on the dollar to
yield 7.66 percent, or 476 basis points more than Treasuries, at
9:50 a.m. in  New York , according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The offering allows Sprint to “lower the  interest rate 
dramatically” by refinancing higher-coupon debt of Clearwire
Corp., the mobile broadband unit that Sprint bought full control
of in July, according to Chief Financial Officer Joseph Euteneuer. Clearwire’s  $4.4 billion  of bonds have an average
coupon of 11.65 percent, Bloomberg data show.  “That’s real cash savings, and one of the big motivators”
to borrow beyond the $4 billion minimum that Sprint had set the
day of its sale, Euteneuer said in a Sept. 4 telephone
interview.  The new bonds, rated B1 by Moody’s Investors Service and
BB-, one level higher, at  Standard & Poor’s , also may spark a
default on its quarterly leverage compliance test, according to
the filing. Junk, or high-yield, high-risk bonds, are rated less
than Baa3 at Moody’s and BBB- by S&P.  ‘Sufficient Cash’  “We fully expect to get the required waivers and
anticipate having sufficient cash on hand to repay and terminate
the facilitates if we do not, so there is not an unacceptable
risk to cross default,”  Scott Sloat , a spokesman for Sprint,
said in a e-mailed statement.  Investor demand helped lift the offering size by $2.5
billion, the same amount of debt that Sprint would need to
eliminate by Sept. 30 to avoid breaching the limit of
obligations relative to adjusted  cash flow  allowed by the
revolver, an Export Development Canada loan agreement and a
secured equipment credit facility.  The opportunity to “lock up so much money for such a long
term at good rates, to me, it more than outweighed any
difficulty in re-negotiating with their banks,” Margie Patel, a
 money manager  at  Wells Fargo & Co . in  Boston , said in a
telephone interview. “I don’t think it’ll be a problem.”  Softbank Purchase  The company had about $1.9 billion of borrowings
outstanding linked to those loans on June 30, including $913
million letters of credit under the revolver, when its  leverage
ratio  was 4.2, according to an Aug. 5 regulatory filing. The
gauge can’t exceed 6.25.  “It’s the first I can remember that a major company issued
debt and then said, ‘Oh by the way, we may breach our loan
covenants,’”  Dave Novosel , a senior analyst at independent
researcher Gimme Credit LLC in  Chicago , said in a telephone
interview. Sprint should be able to amend the covenant because
of its “implicit guarantee from Softbank.”  Billionaire Masayoshi Son’s broadband company paid $16.6
billion to Sprint shareholders and injected $5 billion of new
capital into the target for an almost  80 percent stake . Sprint
shares  have gained  16.9 percent this year, giving the company a
market value of $25.4 billion.  “This is a completely different company than it was a year
ago,” KDP’s Dinsdale said. “The banks will probably be willing
to give these guys a little bit more leash now that they’ve got
the Softbank financial backing.”  Beating Verizon  Sprint also may have been motivated to tap the bond market
before  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  begins to issue as much as
$50 billion of notes to help finance its $130 billion purchase
of Vodafone Group Plc’s 45 percent stake in  Verizon Wireless ,
Dinsdale said. Those securities may “swamp the market” and
reduce liquidity for other issuers in the telecommunications
industry, he said.  In a negotiation between bank lenders and Sprint to amend
the leverage covenant, the mobile-phone provider has the upper
hand, according to Ping Zhao, an analyst at bond researcher
CreditSights Inc. in New York. Creditors wouldn’t want to spoil
a relationship that may include future underwriting business,
Sprint is in a much stronger  financial position  from the
Softbank transaction, and it has enough cash to pay off the
loans, she said.  “Sprint is in the driver’s seat,” Zhao said in a
telephone interview. “I think they’re going to get a waiver.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  