-- U.K. Home Values Rise as Low Rates Boost Demand, Halifax Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-09-06T07:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/u-k-home-values-rise-as-low-rates-boost-demand-halifax-says.html
U.K. house prices  rose for a seventh
month in August and will probably continue to increase through
the rest of the year, according to a report by Halifax.  Home values increased 0.4 percent from the previous month
to an average 170,231 pounds ($265,700), the mortgage unit of
Lloyds Banking Group Plc said in a statement in London today.
From a year earlier, prices were up 6.2 percent.  A strengthening economic recovery, the promise of low
interest rates and government programs have revived prospective
buyers’ confidence. The Bank of England kept its  key interest
rate  and bond-purchase program unchanged yesterday, while
reports this week showed services and  manufacturing growth 
accelerated in August.  “Economic improvement and low interest rates, supported by
official schemes such as Funding for Lending and Help to Buy,
appear to have boosted housing demand,” said Martin Ellis,
housing economist at Halifax. “Nonetheless, relatively modest
economic growth and below-inflation rises in earnings are likely
to act as a brake on the market.”  In the three months through August, home prices were 2.1
percent higher compared with the previous three months. From a
year earlier, values rose 5.4 percent, the biggest annual
increase since June 2010.  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne’s Help-to-Buy,
the first phase of which began in April, has already spurred
sales of newly built homes. The second phase, including
guarantees meant to unlock 130 billion pounds of mortgage
lending, will be available for all homes starting in January.  Recent reports have signaled strength in the property
market. Hometrack Ltd. said on Sept. 2 that growth in  home
values  accelerated in August amid the strongest market
conditions for six years as demand continued to outpace the
number of homes for sale.  UKHBSAMM <Index> CN  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  