-- U.K. Factories Boost Output Amid Signs of Economic Recovery
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-09-06T09:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/u-k-manufacturing-rises-amid-signs-of-economic-recovery.html
U.K.  manufacturing  production rose
for a second month in July, adding to signs of an accelerating
economy that has led investors to bet the Bank of England will
increase interest rates earlier than it has projected.  Factory output rose 0.2 percent from June, when it gained 2
percent, the Office for National Statistics said today in
London. The increase was in line with the median forecast of 23
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey . Industrial  output  was
unchanged as warm weather reduced demand for energy. The  trade
deficit  widened in July by more than economists predicted as
exports to countries outside the European Union plunged.  The data follow business surveys this week showing services
and construction at their strongest since the financial crisis
last month and manufacturing at a 2 1/2 year high. The 10-year
gilt yield climbed above 3 percent for the first time since 2011
yesterday as the Bank of England left policy unchanged without
an explanatory statement.  “Today’s figures show that the industrial sector is still
doing well, although the drop in exports is something of a
concern,” said Samuel Tombs, an economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. in  London . “As a result, today’s trade figures could be an
early warning that the economy cannot depend on the strong
support that it received from net trade in the first half of the
year for much longer.”  Weather Boost  Warm temperatures in July boosted demand for beverages as
well as water to fill paddling pools and water gardens, the ONS
said. At the same time, it damped demand for gas and
electricity, with utilities output falling by 2.2 percent on the
month.  The risks to the recovery were highlighted in a separate
report showing Britain’s goods-trade deficit widened to 9.85
billion pounds in July, the most since October last year.
Exports fell 7.6 percent, with shipments to nations outside the
European Union plunging 16 percent. Overall imports declined 1
percent.  The drop in sales to  non-EU nations  was led by finished
manufacturing, machinery and transport gear and aircraft, the
ONS said. The drop in sales to non-EU nations was led by 
finished manufacturing, machinery and transport gear and 
aircraft, the ONS said. Exports to EU countries rose 1.3 
percent on the month.  The pound erased gains against the dollar after the data
were released and was trading at $1.5574 as of 10 a.m. London
time, down 0.1 percent on the day. The 10-year gilt yield was
down 2 basis points at 2.99 percent.  Market yields suggest investors think the Bank of England
will have to raise interest rates before the end of 2016, as
signaled by Governor Mark Carney when he introduced forward
guidance on Aug. 7.  Rate Expectations  Carney got a boost today with a BOE report showing public
expectations for a rate increase in the coming year fell to the
lowest since the aftermath of the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. Twenty nine percent of people expect an increase,
down from 34 percent in May, the BOE said in its quarterly
Inflation Attitudes survey conducted by Gfk NOP Ltd. That’s the
lowest since November 2008 and the fourth lowest since the
survey began in 1999.  Under the new policy framework, policy makers won’t
consider raising the benchmark interest rate from a record-low
0.5 percent until  unemployment  falls to 7 percent from its
current rate of 7.8 percent. The pledge is subject to a so-called knockout if inflation expectations become dislodged.  The economy saw expansion across all sectors in the second
quarter, and a 0.9 percent in industrial production in the three
months through July may boost expectations investment will again
contribute to growth in the third quarter.  Trade Doubts  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
lifted its 2013 U.K. growth forecast this week to 1.5 percent
from 0.8 percent, with a 0.9 percent expansion in the current
quarter.  The widening of the  trade deficit , though, casts doubt on
the contribution of net trade. Between May and July the overall
deficit including services widened to 6.14 billion pounds from
5.84 billion pounds in the period through April.  In July, alone the total trade deficit widened to 3.09
billion pounds from 1.26 billion pounds the previous month as
Britain recorded its smallest surplus in services since January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  