-- U.K. Jobless Seen Unchanged as Recovery Slow to Lift Payrolls
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-09-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/u-k-jobless-seen-unchanged-as-recovery-slow-to-lift-payrolls.html
Britain’s  unemployment rate  was
probably unchanged in July as the building economic recovery
takes time to filter through to payrolls.  The rate based on an International Labour Organization
method was 7.8 percent in the three months through July,
according to the median of 28 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Jobless claims  probably dropped in August, according to
a separate poll.  Bank of England Governor Mark Carney introduced forward
guidance last month, linking policy to unemployment, and
Britain’s economy has since shown signs of strengthening with
indexes of services and manufacturing rising. Carney will
testify at a U.K. Parliament hearing on Sept. 12, a day after
the labor-market report, the first time he will have faced
questions from lawmakers since taking over the BOE in July.  “The survey evidence on the labor market has surprisingly
been a little mixed in August, despite the robustness of the
economic data,” Morgan Stanley economists including Jonathan Ashworth and Melanie Baker said in a note yesterday. “The
employment component of the services survey was only consistent
with a marginal increase in employment over the month.”  Under their forward-guidance policy, officials have said
they won’t consider raising their key interest rate from a
record-low 0.5 percent until unemployment falls to 7 percent,
something they don’t see happening until late 2016.  Market yields suggest investors think the BOE will have to
raise interest rates before then. The 10-year gilt yield above 3
percent this week for the first time since 2011 and short-sterling futures have dropped in the past month, indicating
investors are adding to bets on higher interest rates. The
implied yield on the March 2015 contract has risen about 30
basis points to 1.13 percent in that period.  The labor-market report will also probably show that claims
for jobless benefits fell by 21,000 in August, economists said.
That would be a 10th consecutive decline. The Office for
National Statistics will publish the data at 9:30 a.m. on Sept.
11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  