-- U.S. Stocks Rise for Week on Economy Amid Syria Concern
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-09-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/u-s-stocks-rise-for-week-on-economy-amid-syria-concern.html
U.S.  stocks  rose for the week,
rebounding from the biggest monthly loss since May 2012, as data
showed signs of economic growth and investors weighed prospects
for central bank stimulus cuts amid tensions over Syria.  Ford Co. (F)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)  climbed more than 5 percent
as automakers’ August vehicle sales reached the highest level
since May 2007.  J.C. Penney (JCP)  Co. surged 14 percent as two  hedge
funds  raised their stakes in the struggling retailer. Microsoft
Corp. fell 6.7 percent after agreeing to buy Nokia Oyj’s handset
business for $7.2 billion.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.4 percent to
1,655.17 for the holiday-shortened week. The benchmark index
slumped during three of the previous four weeks, losing 3.1
percent in August. The Dow  advanced  for the first time in five
weeks, gaining 112.19 points, or 0.8 percent, to 14,922.50.  “Clearly cumulative evidence of economic improvement is
occurring,” Terry Sandven, chief investment strategist at U.S.
Bank Wealth Management, said in a phone interview. His firm
manages $112 billion. “Manufacturing seems to be gaining steam
and housing still is favorable as well. Many of us had expected
the Fed to start tapering in September, and that still is a
likely outcome, although I think now the jury is still out.”  Equities rose as economic data during the week showed
manufacturing is expanding as the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s index unexpectedly climbed in August to the highest
level in more than two years.  Service industries  in the U.S.
last month grew at the fastest pace in almost eight years.  Jobs Report  A report on the final day of the week showed payrolls in
the U.S. climbed less than projected in August and gains in the
prior two months were revised downward, fueling speculation that
any Federal Reserve move to taper its stimulus program will be
limited. The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell to 7.3 percent
as more people left the  labor force .  “It’s the right direction, just the wrong velocity,” Ron Florance, deputy chief investment officer for Wells Fargo
Private Bank, which oversees $170 billion, said by phone from
Scottsdale, Arizona. “We’re still on the path of tapering. I
think it may give them an excuse for a smaller taper.”  Economists forecast the central bank will reduce its
monthly $85 billion in  asset buying  by $10 billion at its
meeting on Sept. 17-18, according to the median of 34 responses
in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Fed stimulus helped
drive the S&P 500 up more than  150 percent  from its bear-market
low in 2009.  Beige Book  Central bank policy makers have been weighing data to
determine whether the economy is strong enough for it to scale
back the pace of bond buying. Americans spending more on cars
and housing helped the economy maintain a “modest to moderate”
pace of expansion from early July through late August, even as
borrowing costs increased, the Fed said Sept. 4 in its  Beige
Book  business survey.  The yield on 10-year Treasuries breached 3 percent for the
first time in two years, ending the week at 2.93 percent.  Equity gains following the jobs report on the last day of
the week were erased as tensions grew between the U.S. and
Russia over Syria. President  Vladimir Putin  said his country
will continue to assist Syria if it’s attacked. President  Barack
Obama  is advocating to punish the regime of Bashar al-Assad for
allegedly using chemical weapons. A U.S. Senate committee
approved a limited military strike on Syria during the week,
clearing the way for a vote by the full chamber.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Volatility Index (VIX) , or
VIX, fell 6.8 percent to 15.85 for the week. The equity
volatility gauge is down 12 percent for the year.  Auto Sales  Health-care and financial stocks advanced at least 1.8
percent to lead the S&P 500’s 10 main industry groups.  Ford climbed 5 percent to $17 as August deliveries gained
12 percent, beating analyst estimates. General Motors gained 6.1
percent to $36.15 after reporting its best sales month since
2008.  The pace of the comeback in U.S. auto sales exceeded
already rosy estimates in August, with a total surpassing any
month in more than six years and a sales rate that was the
fastest since 2007.  J.C. Penney jumped 14 percent to $14.27. Glenview Capital
Management LLC joined J. Kyle Bass in raising its stake in the
retailer, becoming its biggest shareholder in a bet the company
will recover after  Bill Ackman  ended a revamp effort last month.  Hayman Capital Management LP, Bass’s hedge fund, held 11.4
million shares of the Plano, Texas-based department-store chain,
according to a filing. In a separate filing, Glenview said it
owned 20.1 million shares, or 9.1 percent.  Cable Deal  CBS Corp. (CBS)  rose 4.9 percent to $53.62. The broadcaster’s
programs returned to Time Warner Cable in New York,  Los Angeles 
and Dallas after the companies ended a one-month dispute, in
time for the start of National Football League regular-season
games.  E*Trade Financial Corp. jumped 16 percent to $16.26, the
highest in two years. The online brokerage said its banking
subsidiary will pay a $100 million dividend to the parent
company and plans to make similar payments every quarter.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its recommendation on the stock
to buy from neutral.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  advanced 2.3 percent to $498.22. The company is
close to a deal with China Mobile Ltd. to sell its iPhones
through the world’s largest carrier, said a person with
knowledge of the matter. Apple is also near an agreement with
NTT DoCoMo Co., Japan’s largest carrier, which also hasn’t
offered the iPhone on its network.  The company also sent out invitations during the week to a
Sept. 10 event, where the world’s largest technology company
will unveil new models of the iPhone.  Bond Yields  Phone and  utility companies  retreated at least 1 percent
for the worst performance among 10 groups in the  S&P 500  as
rising bond yields reduced demand for equity income. The two
groups offer a dividend yield of more than 4.1 percent, the most
among 10 industries.  Verizon Communications Inc. lost 2.2 percent to $46.34
after agreeing to buy Vodafone Group Plc’s 45 percent stake in
 Verizon Wireless  for $130 billion, getting full control of the
most profitable U.S. mobile-phone carrier in the biggest
acquisition in more than a decade.  Microsoft fell 6.7 percent to $31.15. The company purchased
Nokia’s handset unit in an effort to gain ground on Apple Inc.
and Google Inc. in the smartphone market. Microsoft is deepening
a push into hardware as dwindling computer sales sap demand for
the programs that made it the world’s largest software maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in  New York  at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  