-- UN Seeks Assad Approval for More Aid Worker Access in Syria
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-09-06T19:27:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/un-seeks-assad-approval-for-more-aid-worker-access-in-syria.html
Sectarian and sexual violence is
rising in Syria and human-rights abuses are continuing as
neighborhoods are shelled, towns are besieged, the currency
loses value and infrastructure is destroyed, United Nations
humanitarian aid chief  Valerie Amos  said today.  Amos said she had “positive meetings” in Damascus
yesterday with officials from Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
government about “challenges we have faced in getting approval
for field operations, convoys and visas for humanitarian aid
workers.”  More than one-third of the war-torn country’s 22 million
people are in urgent need of humanitarian assistance as
thousands of them spill into neighboring countries in search of
refuge, Amos told reporters today on a videoconference from
 Beirut , Lebanon.  The UN expects the number of Syrian refugees in Lebanon to
exceed 1 million by the end of this year, Amos said. More than
725,000 Syrian refugees have crossed into Lebanon during the 2
1/2-year-old civil war, Amos said.  More than 100,000 people have died in the Syrian conflict
and more than 6 million have been displaced from their homes,
compelling the UN to make its largest appeal ever -- for $4.4
billion during 2013 -- to assist people in  Syria  and those
who’ve fled to neighboring countries. The UN has raised about 40
percent of that amount, Amos said, urging more international
donors to participate.  Humanitarian Workers  About 4,500 UN staff members remain in Syria, and 11 have
been killed over the course of the conflict, Amos said. The
staff, which includes Syrians and non-Syrian nationals, will
continue humanitarian work regardless of a possible U.S. strike
against Syria in response to the Assad regime’s alleged chemical
weapons attack on Aug. 21, she said.  UN workers have been kidnapped and armed groups continue to
threaten them, some through social-media sites, Amos said.  Syrians told her that “the international community has
abandoned them and that they’d like to see the international
community together, agreeing on action leading to a political
solution inside of Syria,” Amos said. “People remain fearful,
and a lot of people are fearful because the future remains so
uncertain.”  Robert Watkins, head of the UN Development Program’s Beirut
office, said Lebanon was struggling before the civil war to
accommodate as many as 1.5 million Syrians who were already in
Lebanon as migrant workers.  “The number of refugees and migrant workers from outside
Lebanon is enormous and is having a huge impact on the Lebanese
economy,” Watkins said during the videoconference.  Amos said she met with Lebanese Prime Minister Najib Mikati
today in Beirut to discuss an assistance package for education,
health, water sanitation and infrastructure needs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  United Nations  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  