-- Veolia CFO Riolacci to Leave at Year-End Amid Turnaround Plan
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-09-06T15:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/veolia-cfo-riolacci-to-leave-at-year-end-amid-turnaround-plan.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  Chief
Financial Officer Pierre-Francois Riolacci will leave at the end
of the year as Europe’s biggest water company pledges to push
ahead with a turnaround plan. The shares dropped.  “The recruitment of his successor is ongoing and will be
announced in coming weeks,” the Paris-based utility said in a
statement. Veolia “will carry on its transformation strategy.”  Veolia shares declined 2.6 percent, the most in a month, to
close at 12.055 euros in Paris. RTL earlier reported Riolacci is
leaving to join  Air France-KLM. (AF)  Cedric Leurquin, a spokesman for
the airline, declined to comment.  Veolia Chief Executive Officer Antoine Frerot is more than
18 months into a plan to lower debt and boost profitability
through the sale of assets, a shrunken geographic footprint and
more industrial water and waste contracts. First-half  profit  was
almost wiped out by impairments on waste services in  Germany ,
the company said last month.  Riolacci “has chosen to take a new path in his career,”
Veolia said in today’s statement.  Riolacci became CFO at Veolia in 2010 when Thomas Piquemal
left to become finance head at  Electricite de France SA ,
following former CEO Henri Proglio, who took the helm at the
state-controlled nuclear operator.  Veolia has a goal to sell 6 billion euros ($7.9 billion) of
assets in 2012 and 2013, and intends to lower costs by 170
million euros this year as part of a plan to save 750 million
euros by 2015. Frerot last year shook up management and
nominated new directors in a bid to bolster his position.  The effects of the “transformation strategy” are “fully
on the charted path to recovery and profitable growth,” the CEO
said in today’s statement.  Frerot is seeking to increase Veolia’s reliance on
industrial contracts and focusing on “high-growth” economies
such as  China  to counter weakening demand in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  