-- Verizon Shareholder Sues to Stop Vodafone Stake Purchase
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-09-06T17:38:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/verizon-shareholder-sues-to-stop-vodafone-stake-purchase.html
A  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) 
shareholder sued to stop its acquisition of  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s
45 percent stake in Verizon Wireless for $130 billion in what
may be the first investor class action stemming from the deal.  Natalie Gordon alleged in her complaint that the agreement
is “insufficient and inadequate” to shareholders of New York-based Verizon, which Gordon says overpaid for the stake. She
seeks group status for the lawsuit on behalf of all affected
shareholders.  “Verizon shareholders are being shortchanged and their
investment in Verizon will be diminished and diluted as a result
of the stock purchase agreement,” Gordon said in the complaint,
filed yesterday in New York state Supreme Court in  Manhattan .  Verizon Communications earlier this week agreed to buy
Vodafone’s stake in Verizon Wireless, seeking full control of
the most-profitable U.S. mobile-phone carrier in the biggest
acquisition in more than a decade.  “We believe this lawsuit is entirely without merit and
Verizon intends to defend itself vigorously,” Randal S. Milch,
executive vice president and general counsel for the company,
said in a statement.  Network Investments  The deal, sought by Verizon since at least 2004, implies a
total value for Verizon Wireless of almost $290 billion --
larger than the market capitalization of Google Inc. or the
gross domestic product of  Singapore .  The wireless unit produces $21.8 billion in operating
income a year, all of which can now go into Verizon’s coffers so
it can fund more network investments to take on mounting
competition. Vodafone can exit a business whose dividends and
operations it didn’t control.  In March, Bloomberg News reported that Verizon was eager to
take full control of the wireless unit this year after having
weighed options including a full merger of the two companies.  The companies said they expect the acquisition to close in
the first quarter of 2014. If completed at $130 billion, almost
Verizon’s entire market value, the deal would be the biggest
since Vodafone’s acquisition of Mannesmann AG in 2000.  Lead Advisers  Guggenheim Securities LLC,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  and Paul J. Taubman served as Verizon’s lead financial
advisers. Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz and Macfarlanes LLP
handled transaction counsel, while Debevoise & Plimpton LLP
advised the company on its debt financing. Vodafone’s board was
advised by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. UBS AG and Simpson Thacher &
Bartlett LLP.  Verizon will pay Vodafone $58.9 billion in cash, financed
with credit from JPMorgan,  Bank of America  Corp.,  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
and Morgan Stanley. The company also will issue $60.2 billion in
stock to Vodafone shareholders.  Gordon seeks to stop the transaction “unless and until the
company adopts and implements a procedure or process to obtain a
merger agreement providing fair terms for shareholders.” The
shareholder also seeks unspecified damages.  The case is Gordon v. Verizon Communications Inc.,
653084/2013,  New York  State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  