-- Verizon to Meet Bond Investors Before $50 Billion Fundraising
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f   a n d   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-09-06T11:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/verizon-to-meet-bond-investors-before-50-billion-fundraising.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  plans to
meet bond investors in Europe and the U.S. next week as the
carrier seeks to raise as much as $50 billion to buy a stake in
its wireless unit from  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   The company hired banks to arrange the meetings starting on
Sept. 9 in the U.S. and Sept. 13 in Europe, according to a
person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified
because they’re not authorized to speak about it.  Enel SpA (ENEL) ,
 Italy ’s biggest utility, and Norwegian energy producer  Statoil
ASA (STL)  were among non-financial companies selling 12.5 billion
euros ($16.4 billion) of bonds this week in the busiest start to
September for issuance on record, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The deal triggered speculation a bond sale from Verizon may
exceed Apple Inc.’s record $17 billion issue in April and any
transaction in euros will be the company’s first. Proceeds would
help fund its acquisition of Vodafone’s Verizon Wireless stake
for $130 billion, giving it full control of the most profitable
U.S. mobile-phone carrier in the biggest buyout in more than a
decade.  “It will be the company’s inaugural deal in Europe so it
may have to pay a bit of a new-issue premium to entice
investors,” said Sam Morton, a credit analyst at Mizuho
International Plc in  London . “Verizon needs to do a significant
portion of financing over stages.”  Telefonica Hybrids  Average yields on  high-grade  bonds rose 15 basis points
this week to 2.2 percent, the highest in 11 months, Bloomberg
index data show. A benchmark gauge of credit risk fell during
the period, with the Markit iTraxx Europe index of credit-default swaps on 125 companies with investment-grade ratings
dropping two basis points to 105 basis points.  Also in the new issue market,  Telefonica SA (TEF)  will meet
investors for a possible debut sale of hybrid bonds in euros
through its Telefonica Europe BV unit. The money will help fund
the biggest Spanish phone company’s acquisition of a controlling
stake in Royal KPN NV’s E-Plus German wireless unit for 8.5
billion euros, according to a Moody’s Investors Service report.  Hybrid securities allow companies to borrow without putting
their credit grade at risk because ratings firms typically count
50 percent of the bonds as equity, reducing their view of a
company’s indebtedness. Enel and  America Movil SAB (AMXL)  are among
non-financial companies that sold a record 23.5 billion euros of
the securities in Europe this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The hybrid market is very hot at the moment,” saidGeorg Grodzki, head of credit research at Legal & General Investment
Management in London. “Even companies which don’t seem to have
an acute need for bolstering their equity base or credit ratios
seem to be tempted by the idea of raising affordable funding and
cushioning their credit rating.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  