-- Williams Defeats Li to Join Azarenka in U.S. Open Final Rematch
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-09-07T04:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/victoria-azarenka-returns-to-u-s-open-final-by-beating-pennetta.html
Serena Williams  continued her
dominance at the U.S. Open, defeating  Li Na  in straight sets to
advance to a women’s final rematch with  Victoria Azarenka .  Williams, 31, the American top seed and defending champion
at the tennis season’s final Grand Slam tournament, moved within
one victory of her fifth U.S. Open title by beating Li of China,
the No. 5 seed, 6-0, 6-3 yesterday at the National Tennis Center
in New York.  Li, the 31-year-old 2011 French Open winner, saved six
match points while serving to stay in the match at 2-5 in the
second set, an almost 14-minute game. Williams closed out the
87-minute contest on her own serve, pumping both fists while
shouting “Come on!” in celebration of her win.  “It was tough at the end,” Williams, who hit 19 winners
compared to eight for Li, said in a televised interview on the
Arthur Ashe Stadium court. “I got a little nervous but I was
able to close it out, finally.”  The men’s semifinals are set for today, with top-seeded
Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  playing No. 9 Stanislas Wawrinka of
 Switzerland  and No. 2  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain  facing No. 8  Richard Gasquet  of  France . Djokovic and Nadal are former champions.  Williams, who defeated Spain’s Carla Suarez Navarro 6-0, 6-0 in the quarterfinals, at one point had won 24 straight
tournament games before Li held serve to knot the second set at
1-1. The streak began during a fourth-round match with Sloane Stephens that Williams won 6-4, 6-1.  Entering the tournament having won 16 Grand Slam singles
titles, Williams hasn’t dropped a set and has won 72 of 88
games.  “I’ve just been really focused on all my practices and
I’ve just been playing really hard,” Williams said of her
dominance throughout the tournament.  Erratic Play  Second-seeded Azarenka overcame erratic play earlier in the
day en route to a 6-4, 6-2 win against unseeded Flavia Pennetta
of  Italy .  Playing amid sun and at times swirling winds on the Ashe
court, both women struggled with their serves. Pennetta, 31,
playing in her first Grand Slam semifinal, won just one of nine
service games in the 94-minute match. Azarenka’s serve was
broken in five of nine games, and she had 25 unforced errors in
the win.  Azarenka needed six set points before closing out the first
set with a service winner. She won the set despite making 18
unforced errors. There were seven service breaks in the set, in
which Pennetta lost four of five games on her serve.  Azarenka said in a news conference that she relishes the
chance to face Williams again in the final.  ‘Amazing Opportunity’  “Well, it’s amazing opportunity, something that every
tennis player dreams of, you know, to be in the final of the
 U.S. Open  and play against the best player in the world,” she
said. “It’s something that I’m so excited about, and I can’t
wait to go out and play.”  The last women’s final rematch at the U.S. Open was in
2002, when Williams beat her sister Venus after losing to her a
year earlier. Azarenka, a 24-year-old Belarusian, came within a
game of winning the tournament a year ago before falling in
three sets to Williams.  “We always have really good matches and I look forward to
it,” Williams said. “She’s a great player and she lifts her
game when it really counts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  