-- VW Meets With UAW in Germany on Tennesse Plant Council
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-09-06T14:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/vw-meets-with-uaw-in-germany-on-tennesse-plant-council.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and the United Auto
Workers met last week in  Germany  to discuss establishing a
German-style works council at the company’s Tennessee factory.  The Aug. 30 meeting in Wolfsburg, Germany, where VW is
based, focused on a path toward Volkswagen’s recognition of the
UAW at its Chattanooga plant and how to set up a works council,
the automaker and union said in separate statements.  “In the U.S., a works council can only be realized
together with a trade union,” Frank Fischer, the top manager of
the VW’s Tennessee plant, said in a letter to employees. “This
is the reason why Volkswagen has started a dialogue with the UAW
in order to check the possibility of implementing an innovative
model of employee representation for all employees.”  The UAW’s membership rose 0.5 percent last year to 382,513,
the union’s highest since 2008 and its third consecutive annual
gain. The Detroit-based union wants to rebuild membership by
trying to organize workers at the U.S. factories of Volkswagen
and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  The UAW’s membership peaked at 1.5 million
in 1979.  The union, in its statement issued today, said every major
VW assembly plant worldwide has worker representation and a seat
on the VW global works council.  “It’s the workers in Chattanooga who will make the
decision of representation and a works council,” according to
the UAW statement.  UAW President Bob King has said the union’s future depends
on expanding membership by organizing workers at the U.S.
factories of European and Asian automakers. He failed in a
pledge to organize one of those plants in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  