-- Walker Cup Returns to Roots at Long Island’s National Golf Links
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-06T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/walker-cup-returns-to-roots-at-long-island-s-national-golf-links.html
Golf’s top amateur team event is
returning to its roots on New York’s Long Island.  The  44th Walker Cup  starts tomorrow at National Golf Links
of America in Southampton, New York, where a 10-man team from
the U.S. hosts a squad composed of players from Britain and
Ireland. The U.S. holds a 34-8-1 advantage in the biennial two-day competition, which is similar in format to the Ryder Cup,
though is only open to amateur golfers.  The National in 1922 was the site for the first Walker Cup,
which was originally created as the International Challenge
Match by George Herbert Walker, a former president of the U.S.
Golf Association. Walker is a great-grandfather of President
George W. Bush, who visited with both teams yesterday during
practice rounds and also played several holes.  National Golf Links, which is located between Shinnecock
Hills Golf Club and Peconic Bay, was designed by Charles Blair
Macdonald, who helped found the USGA in 1894 and has been called
the father of American golf architecture. The club, ranked No.
11 in Golf Digest’s list of the  top 100  U.S. golf courses,
opened in 1911 and features holes that are patterned after
famous layouts in the U.K.  “The players are so overwhelmed when we talk about the
history of the National Golf Links of America and what C.B.
Macdonald and George Herbert Walker did to promote this, what I
call the finest amateur competition in the world,” U.S. captain
Jim Holtgrieve said. “They are very excited.”  Great Britain and Ireland won the Walker Cup in 2011 by a
score of  14-12  at Royal Aberdeen Golf Club in  Scotland . The U.S.
won the three competitions before that, including a 16 1/2 to 9
1/2 victory in the last Walker Cup held in the U.S., in 2009 at
Merion Golf Club outside Philadelphia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  