-- WTI Rises to One-Week High on U.S. Plan for Syria Strike
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-09-06T12:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/wti-oil-fluctuates-after-rising-most-in-week-on-u-s-stockpiles.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
climbed to its highest in a week as President  Barack Obama 
sought diplomatic backing at the G-20 summit in  Russia  for a
military strike on Syria.  Futures advanced as much as 1.1 percent as Obama began
meetings in  St. Petersburg  where he is seeking to persuade other
leaders of the Group of 20 nations to support armed intervention
in response to Syria’s alleged use of chemical weapons. Crude
extended gains after U.S. employers added fewer jobs than
forecast in August, damping speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
cut bond purchases this month.  “A military strike is not fully priced in,” said Gerrit Zambo, an oil trader at  Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich who
estimates Brent may rally to $127 a barrel should an attack be
launched. “It’s only a question of time until the U.S. is
active as Obama is really committed to lead a military strike
and can’t afford to lose face.”  WTI for October delivery advanced as much as $1.20 to
$109.57 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the highest since Aug. 29, and was at
$109.49 as of 1:46 p.m. London time. Prices are up 1.7 percent
this week for a second weekly advance.  Brent crude  for October settlement rose 53 cents to $115.79
a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. The volume of all
futures traded was about 32 percent below the 100-day average.
Brent was headed for a fourth weekly gain, the longest rising
streak since February.  Weaker Dollar  The European benchmark crude was at a premium of $6.39 to
WTI, compared with $6.89 yesterday.  Crude advanced as the dollar weakened following the Labor
Department report that showed payrolls rose by 169,000 in
August, compared with the 180,000 median forecast of 96
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The U.S. currency retreated
0.3 percent to $1.3155 per euro, after earlier reaching its
strongest level since July.  The G-20 is hosted by Russian President  Vladimir Putin , an
ally of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, who has cast doubts on
U.S. evidence that Assad’s regime used chemical weapons on
residents in a suburb of Damascus in August. Crude climbed to
the highest in more than two years last week on concern an
escalation of the conflict in Syria may disrupt the region’s oil
supplies.  ‘WTI Spike’  The  Middle East  accounted for about 35 percent of global
oil production in the first quarter of this year, according to
the  International Energy Agency . Syria borders Iraq, the largest
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
after  Saudi Arabia .  Obama will seek approval from Congress before taking action
against Syria after the Senate Foreign Relations Committee voted
for a restricted operation. U.S. lawmakers are scheduled to
reconvene on Sept. 9 after a five-week break.  “Syria is the focus and the way that the incursion occurs
will dictate how oil will behave,” said  Jonathan Barratt , the
chief executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin in Sydney who
predicts investors may sell WTI at about $112.50 a barrel.
“There will be a spike. The event to push it through $112.50 is
going to have to be pretty huge.”  WTI may rise next week as plans for an attack gather pace
amid improving economic data and reduced stockpiles, a Bloomberg
survey showed.  Sixteen of 36 analysts and traders, or 44 percent, forecast
that WTI crude will climb through Sept. 13. Fifteen respondents
predicted a slide and five said there will be no change. Last
week, 43 percent in the survey estimated futures will increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  