-- Yahoo Says U.S. Government Requests Most Data
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-09-06T19:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/yahoo-says-u-s-government-requests-most-data.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  said it received 12,444
requests for user data from the U.S. government in the first
half of this year, more than any other country for which it
shares information about data collection.  The Web portal provided some data to U.S. agencies in 92
percent of those cases, the Sunnyvale, California-based company
said today in its first global  transparency report . The next
highest number of requests came from  Germany , with 4,295; Italy,
with 2,637; and Taiwan, with 1,942.  Yahoo’s efforts to disclose more data about its dealings
with governments follows other large technology companies
including  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , which
release similar reports. The data requests Yahoo receives only
affect a tiny portion of its users and must be made through
lawful means, Ron Bell, general counsel,  wrote  in a blog post.  “We regularly push back against improper requests for user
data, including fighting requests that are unclear, improper,
overbroad or unlawful,” Bell wrote.  The company recently won a motion requiring the U.S.
government to declassify court documents relating to the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Act, he said. Yahoo didn’t say which
U.S. government agencies requested the data.  Technology companies have pressed the U.S. government for
more leeway to report aggregate numbers of data requests,
following reports earlier this year that the U.S. National
Security Agency is collecting millions of residents’ telephone
records, and the computer communications of foreigners from Web
businesses under court order.  Yahoo shares rose less than 1 percent to $28.30 at 3:02
p.m. in New York. The stock has gained 42 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 17 percent rise in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  