-- Zetas Leaders’ Brother Gets 20-Years for Money Laundering
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2013-09-06T01:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-06/zetas-leaders-brother-gets-20-years-for-money-laundering.html
 The brother of two alleged Los
Zetas drug gang leaders was sentenced to 20 years in prison for
his role in a conspiracy that used racehorses to launder illicit
drug profits, prosecutors said.  U.S. District Judge Sam Sparks in Austin, Texas, sentenced
Jose Trevino Morales, 46, a resident of Balch Springs, Texas,
and the brother of Miguel Trevino Morales and Oscar Omar Trevino
Morales, to the maximum term for his conviction in May on one
count of conspiracy to commit  money laundering , U.S. Attorney
Robert Pitman in  San Antonio  said in a statement.  Also sentenced were Francisco Colorado Cessa, 52, a
businessman from Veracruz,  Mexico , who received 20 years, and
Fernando Solis Garcia, 30, a horse trainer and purchasing agent
from Ruidoso,  New Mexico , who received 13 years and four months,
according to the statement.  Prosecutors said that starting in 2008, Miguel and Oscar
Trevino Morales directed portions of the cash generated from
narcotics sales to Jose Trevino and his wife, Zulema Trevino,
for purchasing, training, breeding and racing American quarter
horses in the  United States .  Trial testimony showed the defendants carried out a shell
game involving straw purchasers and transactions worth millions
of dollars in New Mexico, Oklahoma,  California  and Texas to
disguise the source drug money and make the proceeds from the
sale of quarter horses or their race winnings appear legitimate,
prosecutors said.  ‘Terrible Toll’  “The activities of Mexican drug cartels have taken a
terrible toll within Mexico,” Pitman said in the statement.
“This prosecution and the sentences imposed today should send a
clear message to those who would attempt to import their brand
of corruption and violence into the United States.”  Kirk Lechtenberger, an attorney for Jose Trevino Morales,
didn’t immediately respond after regular business hours to phone
messages seeking comment on the sentencing.  Pitman said seven others convicted in the case are
scheduled to be sentenced Friday, including Zulema Trevino.
Seven other co-defendants, including the purported Los Zetas
leaders, remain at large. More than 400 quarter horses seized by
federal authorities in June 2012 have been sold for about $9
million, Pitman said.  The case is U.S. v. Morales, 12-cr-00210, U.S. District
Court, Western District of  Texas  (Austin).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Korosec in Dallas at  tkorosec@texaswordworks.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  