-- 
Lagarde Gets British Endorsement to Run IMF, Adding to Support From Europe

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-05-21T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/lagarde-gets-british-endorsement-to-run-imf-adding-to-support-from-europe.html
The U.K. will back French Finance
Minister  Christine Lagarde  to become the next managing director
of the  International Monetary Fund , Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said, adding to the cascade of European
endorsements for her.  Osborne praised Lagarde for her leadership skills during
France’s presidency of the Group of 20 and for her “strong”
advocacy of countries taking steps to reduce budget deficits.
Last week, Osborne had left open the possibility that Britain
might endorse a non-European to head the fund.  “On the basis of merit, I believe Christine is the
outstanding candidate for the IMF, and that’s why Britain will
back her,” Osborne said in an e-mailed statement late
yesterday. “Personally think it would be a very good thing to
see the first female managing director of the IMF in its 60 year
history.”  Lagarde has emerged as the leading contender to replace
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn  at the IMF as developing nations have
failed to unite behind one candidate. Strauss-Kahn, who’s also
French, resigned on May 19, four days after his arrest in  New
York  on sexual-assault charges.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel yesterday described Lagarde
as an “excellent and experienced person” and that consensus
was emerging is Europe for her to get the IMF job, Deutsche
Presse-Agentur said. Austria may support Lagarde, Finance
Minister Maria Fekter said yesterday, according to  Agence
France-Presse .  Gordon Brown   Osborne’s backing reduces the prospect that former Prime
Minister Gordon Brown will get the position. The Financial Times
reported last week that Brown, who served as chancellor for 10
years, had told friends he had international backing for his
candidacy.  Osborne said in an interview last week that Brown hadn’t
asked the British government to support him. This month, Prime
Minister David Cameron said Brown might not be the “most
appropriate” candidate because the job needs someone who
“understands the danger of excessive debt.”  Lagarde’s chances of securing the top IMF role may hinge on
how she resolved a two-decade-old dispute involving a supporter
of President Nicolas Sarkozy.  France ’s Cour de Justice de la Republique, which oversees
ministers’ actions in office, has until June 10 to decide
whether to investigate if Lagarde abused her powers in agreeing
in 2007 to send the case to arbitration. It resulted in a 385
million-euro ($550 million) award to Bernard Tapie, a former
Socialist minister who endorsed Sarkozy’s presidential effort.  Lagarde has rejected accusations her decision to take the
matter to arbitration and not appeal the award was a reward for
Tapie’s support of Sarkozy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  