-- 
Malaysia Smelting Agrees to Create Joint Venture for Tin Mining in Congo

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-05-21T15:05:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/malaysia-smelting-agrees-to-create-joint-venture-for-tin-mining-in-congo.html
Malaysia Smelting Corp., the world’s
third-biggest tin producer, signed a confidentiality agreement
with the Democratic Republic of Congo to develop mineral
concessions in the war-torn east, Congo’s mines minister said.  The company will take over mineral concessions in Maniema,
North Kivu and  South Kivu  provinces from the government-owned
miner Sakima, Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  said today.  “We expect to proceed with the total liquidation of Sakima
and create a joint venture with MSC beginning in the part of
Maniema that is most secure,” Kabewlulu said in a text message.
“In North Kivu and South Kivu, it will start later.”  MSC, which produced about 15 percent of its tin from
Congolese ore in 2010, announced the outlines of a deal on the
Bursa Malaysia yesterday after a May 19 meeting with Kabwelulu
and President Joseph Kabila in Kinshasa, Congo’s capital. Kabila
said he wants to boost state revenue and improve labor
conditions by replacing independent diggers, who account for
almost all of Congo’s tin ore, with larger mining companies.  The accord “would enhance the company’s long-term growth
in the tin industry” and help Congo “overcome the negative
image and perception of its  mining industry ,” MSC said. Eastern
Congo has endured 15 years of conflict, fueled by trade in
resources that often supports armed groups and some Congo army
members.  MSC announced April 1 that it would stop buying ore from
Central Africa until shipments were properly tagged and traced
to comply with new industry guidelines regarding the trade in
so-called “conflict minerals,” akin to ‘ blood diamonds .’’  Minerals, Armed Groups  Later this year, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission will also release new rules requiring U.S. companies
to disclose whether tin, gold, tungsten or coltan used in their
products could have supported conflict in Congo.  Congo has been working with the  United Nations  and groups
including the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development to help cut ties between minerals and armed rebels.  MSC will contribute $10 million to a tagging program
managed by the tin-industry group ITRI Ltd. to help legitimize
the tin ore and coltan trade in eastern Congo, Kabwelulu said.
Coltan, used in electronics, keeps laptops and mobile phones
from overheating.  The Penang, Malaysia-based company said it was helping the
government “implement an effective due-diligence process for
the DRC tin supply chain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa on 
 Mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 