-- 
Animal Kingdom May Be 33rd Contender to Win First Two Triple Crown Legs

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-05-21T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/animal-kingdom-may-be-33rd-contender-to-win-first-two-triple-crown-legs.html
Animal Kingdom , the longshot winner
of the  Kentucky Derby , would join 32 other horses that have
captured the first two legs of horse racing’s Triple Crown with
a victory in today’s 136th Preakness Stakes.  The 3-year-old colt, the early 2-1 favorite in the $1
million Preakness at Baltimore’s Pimlico Race Course, would be
the first Triple Crown contender since 2008, when Big Brown won
the first two legs of the thoroughbred racing series before
coming in ninth in the Belmont Stakes in  New York .  Affirmed was the most recent of the 11 Triple Crown
victors, winning in 1978.  Trainer Graham Motion has kept Animal Kingdom stabled at
Fair Hill Training Center in Elkton,  Maryland , rather than take
a stall in the Pimlico barn. He planned to trailer the colt for
the hour-long ride to the track this morning.  “It’s where we’re comfortable,” Motion said during a
teleconference. “It’s where I’m comfortable having my horses,
and I think it’s just a relaxing atmosphere for him and kind of
keeps him out of the craziness a little bit.”  Fourteen horses will be covering the 1 3/16 miles in
competition for the silver Woodlawn Vase, created by Tiffany &
Co. in 1860 and valued at $1 million in 1983. Five of the
starters ran in the Derby this year.  Jockey John Velazquez again will be aboard Animal Kingdom.
Velazquez, who lost his Derby mount when Uncle Mo was scratched,
picked up Animal Kingdom when the regular jockey, Robby Albarado, was kicked in the face earlier in the week.  “I’m just excited to have somebody ride the horse back to
back,” Motion said. “He told me after the race, ‘I’ve never
been as relaxed in a race of this magnitude as I was riding this
race, and I think part of that is the horse.’”  Animal Kingdom, making his second appearance on a dirt
track, will leave from the 11th post position with Dialed In,
trainer Nick Zito’s Derby favorite, next in gate 10 at 9-2.
Mucho Macho Man, third in the Derby, was made 6-1, running from
the ninth post. Nehru, the runner-up in the Derby, isn’t entered
in the Preakness.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  