-- 
BOE’s Dale Signals Gradual Rate Increases Over Two Years in FT Interview

-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 
2011-05-21T14:15:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/boe-s-dale-says-uncertain-recovery-shouldn-t-deter-rate-increase.html
Bank of England Chief Economist
 Spencer Dale  said that officials should raise  interest rates  to
bring inflation under control even if Britain’s economic
recovery isn’t yet assured.  “I’m not at all confident that the recovery has taken hold
and will definitely power away,” Dale said in an interview with
the Financial Times published today in  London . “However, I’m
even more worried about what’s going on in terms of inflation.”  Inflation accelerated to 4.5 percent in April, the fastest
since 2008, forcing Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  to
explain publicly why officials have yet to raise borrowing costs
from a record low of 0.5 percent. Dale has voted for interest-
rate increases since February and helped compile forecasts this
month using investor expectations that showed the benchmark will
rise once this year and reach 3 percent in 2014.  “That sort of broad path” for rates “didn’t look wholly
improbable,” he said. Still, “what we know is things will
change and the economy will evolve differently” and “as a
result the interest-rate path will differ as well.” A  Bank of
England  spokeswoman confirmed Dale’s comments and said he wasn’t
making forecasts for rates.  Dale began calling for higher interest rates after the bank
completed its first quarterly predictions of the year in
February, joining  Andrew Sentance  and  Martin Weale . Data since
those forecasts has showed inflation continuing to accelerate,
while the economy stagnated in the past two quarters.  Unhappy Vote  “I’m not particularly happy about voting to raise interest
rates and doing it for nasty reasons” of curbing inflation
rather than economic growth, Dale said. The nine-member panel
has kept the rate unchanged for more than two years.  Dale said he remains “cautious about the degree” that the
bank should raise the benchmark, in part because of the impact
on borrowers.  “I don’t take lightly the impact this could have on some
families,” he said. “But I think the cost to our economy as a
whole -- were inflation to persist for longer and our
credibility start to be eroded -- would be even worse.”  Dale highlighted the bank’s May economic forecasts, which
showed inflation will exceed the 2 percent goal until the start
of 2013. That implies an overshoot of the target during “the
best part of seven years,” he said.  Such a deviation may make people feel it is reasonable to
ask if the bank is “just as aggressive in getting inflation
back to target as it used to be, or is there a risk that it has
become a little bit more tolerant,” he said.  Dale’s comments signal more alarm on the threat from
persisting inflation than those this week of his line manager,
Deputy Governor  Charles Bean , who still favored unchanged rates
this month. Bean said that allowing a “temporary” period of
above-target inflation is consistent with the bank’s mandate and
is necessary to support the economic recovery.  “The Monetary Policy Committee’s chosen approach has been
to accept a temporary period of above-target inflation, rather
than seeking to hold inflation as close to the 2 percent target
as possible at all times,” Bean said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  