-- 
Canadian Currency Declines for Longest Since November as Crude Oil Stalls

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-05-21T04:00:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/canadian-dollar-drops-for-longest-in-six-months-as-oil-stalls.html
Canada ’s dollar weakened versus its
U.S. counterpart in the longest losing streak since November as
crude- oil prices  stagnated amid mounting investor concern that
global economic growth is faltering.  The loonie, as the currency is known, fell for a third week
as crude oil traded near a three-month low.  Raw materials 
including oil account for about half of Canada’s export revenue.
The nation’s inflation rate and retail sales were weaker than
forecast, which may discourage the Bank of Canada from boosting
 interest rates  this month. Housing and manufacturing in the
U.S., Canada’s biggest trade partner, trailed estimates.  “The Canadian dollar suffered moderately this week because
of declining confidence in the U.S economy and the world economy
moving into the second quarter,” said Joseph Trevisani, chief
market analyst at FX Solutions Inc. in Saddle River,  New Jersey .  The loonie, nicknamed for the image of the aquatic bird on
the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.6 percent to 97.42 cents versus the
 U.S. dollar , from 96.86 cents on May 13. One Canadian dollar
buys $1.0265. The currency rallied on April 29 to 94.46 cents,
the strongest since November 2007.  Crude oil futures for June delivery decreased 0.2 percent
this week to $99.49 a barrel in New York after dropping as low
as $95.02 on May 17. They touched $94.63 on May 6, the lowest
level since Feb. 22.  Industrial production in the U.S unexpectedly stalled in
April and housing starts dropped. Output at factories, mines and
utilities was unchanged after a 0.7 percent gain in March,
figures from the  Federal Reserve  showed May 17. Work began on
523,000 houses at an annual pace, down 11 percent, according to
Commerce Department data released the same day.  ‘Longer-Term Softening’  “The risks are primarily tilted for a weaker Canadian
dollar,” said John Shin, senior G-10 foreign-exchange
strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York.
“Unless you got some type of substantial reversal back upward
in oil prices, this is where we think you get into a longer-term
softening period for the Canadian dollar.”  Central bank officials are forecast to boost the target
rate for overnight loans to 1.5 percent during the third quarter
and to 2 percent during the last three months of 2011, according
to the median forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  The  Bank of Canada  has held its benchmark interest rate at
1 percent since September, when it increased it for the third
time last year. It’s next due to decide on policy on May 31.  Consumer Prices  Consumer prices rose 3.3 percent in April from a year
earlier, Statistics Canada said yesterday in Ottawa, less than
the 3.4 percent gain economists predicted. Retail sales for
March were little changed, a result weaker than any economist
had forecast, with rising gasoline sales offset by declines in
furniture, clothing and entertainment.  “The market was expecting something a little higher for
CPI,” said Blake Jespersen, director of foreign exchange at
Bank of  Montreal  in Toronto.  The  consumer price index  increased 0.3 percent in April
after a 1.1 percent gain in the previous month,  Statistics
Canada  reported.  The index  will be “above 3 percent in the short term,”
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said in a speech on May 16
in Ottawa. Carney reiterated that annual inflation would slow to
2 percent by mid-2012.  The yield on Canada’s two-year bond slumped eight basis
points to 1.61 percent, from 1.69 percent on May 13, and touched
1.60 percent yesterday, the lowest level since March 18. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point. The price of the 1.75 percent
security maturing in March 2013 rose 14 cents to $100.25.  Rate Bets  September 2011 bankers’ acceptance contracts yielded 1.42
percent, the least since August on a closing basis. So-called
Bax contracts average about 18 basis points above the central
bank’s overnight target, Bloomberg data since 1992 show.  The trading indicates there’s about a 44 percent chance
that the target lending rate will rise by a quarter-percentage
point at the Sept. 7 Bank of Canada policy meeting, compared
with odds of about 72 percent yesterday, according to  David Love , a trader of interest-rate derivatives at the brokerage Le
Groupe Jitney Inc. in Montreal.  “The Street was really worried about a higher-than-
expected number,” said Love, referring to the consumer price
index. “That didn’t happen, so BAX popped a bit,” meaning
yields fell, indicating lower rate-increase expectations.  The loonie appreciated 0.6 percent to 83.88 yen and
weakened 0.8 percent to C$1.5809 versus the pound.  “People are reevaluating what’s been going on,” said  John Curran , a senior vice president in Toronto at CanadianForex
Ltd., an online foreign-exchange dealer. “It’s been a general
 risk aversion , consolidation theme.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  