-- 
CertusBank Buys Two Failed Lenders as 2011 Bank Toll Reaches 43

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-21T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/certusbank-buys-two-failed-lenders-as-2011-bank-toll-reaches-43.html
CertusBank, a South Carolina lender
run by former Bank of America Corp. and Wachovia Corp.
executives, acquired two shuttered  Georgia  lenders and  Columbia
Banking System Inc. (COLB)  bought one in  Washington  as property price
declines continue to imperil community banks.  Columbia Banking, the $4.3 billion lender based in Tacoma,
Washington, purchased Summit Banking Co., and CertusBank bought
Macon-based Atlantic Southern Bank and First Georgia Banking
Co., of Franklin, according to statements yesterday on the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  website . The three failures
drained $445.7 million from the FDIC deposit-insurance fund.  “We’re truly excited for CertusBank to extend its presence
into Georgia and northeast  Florida ,” Milton H. Jones Jr.,
CertusBank’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said in a
statement. “Our footprint covers some of the most economically
diverse and promising cities in the country, and we look forward
to being an integral part of the communities we serve.”  Banks are closing under stress from commercial real estate
loans, tied to property values that fell as much as 45 percent
from the October 2007 peak through last August, according to
Moody’s Investors Service. More than 360 lenders have been
closed since the start of 2008, including 43 this year, the FDIC
said.  Columbia Banking purchased more than $142 million in assets
from Burlington’s Summit Banking, which was closed by state
regulators, the FDIC said. Columbia paid a 0.75 percent premium
for more than $130 million in deposits.  $1.4 Billion  CertusBank, of Easley,  South Carolina , picked up more than
$1.4 billion in deposits when Georgia banking officials closed
First Georgia and Atlantic Southern, according to the FDIC. With
the acquisitions, CertusBank has $1.8 billion in assets and at
least 32 branches, including 25 in Georgia, six in South
Carolina and one in Florida, according to the statement and FDIC
data.  CertusBank is owned by  Blue Ridge  Holdings Inc., which is
run by Jones and was seeking $1 billion to buy failed banks last
year. The group bought CommunitySouth Bank & Trust of Easley in
January. Jones retired from Bank of America in September 2009 as
Georgia market president.  Blue Ridge’s organizers also included Edward Brown III,
former president of corporate and investment banking at Bank of
America; Walter Davis, former executive vice president of retail
credit and direct lending at Wachovia, and Charles Williams,
former chief administrative officer of Bank of America’s capital
markets unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  