-- 
EBRD Adopts Plan for Expanding Investment to N. Africa, Mideast

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-05-21T10:43:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/ebrd-adopts-plan-for-expanding-investment-to-n-africa-mideast.html
The European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development adopted a plan to expand its investments to
North Africa and the Middle East, where popular protests this
year toppled authoritarian leaders in  Tunisia  and  Egypt .   EBRD shareholders  acknowledged “an urgent need to express
support to those countries,” according to a resolution passed
at their annual meeting in the Kazakh capital Astana today. They
agreed to speed talks on Egypt’s request to become a recipient
country and asked the bank’s management to prepare practical
steps needed for broadening the bank’s mandate by the end of
July, according to the document.  “What happens in the region is indeed of fundamental
importance for all of us,” President Thomas Mirow said in a
speech yesterday. “The people in that region, as in ours,
deserve to see their political aspirations matched by palpable
economic gains.”  The move would mark the EBRD’s first involvement in the
Middle East, two decades after the bank was set up to help
support the creation of market economies in the formerly
communist nations of eastern  Europe . Only countries that
demonstrate a commitment to democracy and a market economy are
eligible for loans.  The EBRD may lend 2.5 billion euros ($3.6 billion) a year
in the Mediterranean region on top of the 8.5 billion euros to 9
billion euros planned for eastern Europe without the need for
additional capital, the bank said.  Egypt, Morocco, Tunisia  All 63 shareholders will have to approve the expansion of
the bank’s geographical scope. Beyond Egypt, the first countries
to benefit from the expansion may be Morocco and Tunisia, the
bank has said. Morocco expressed interest in eligibility and
Tunisia would have to become a shareholder before it can receive
investment, Mirow has said.  The bank would be able to start lending in Egypt in the
second quarter of 2012, Mirow said.  An “absolute majority” of EBRD shareholders advocate a
more cautious approach in extending operations beyond Europe,
while the bank’s management favors faster expansion, Russian
Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak told reporters in Astana
today.  Russia , which supported broadening the bank’s mandate to
Egypt, was joined by the U.S. and  Japan  in urging a more gradual
movement into the Middle East, Storchak said.  Protests have overthrown Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak . Violence continues
in Yemen, Syria and  Libya .  The EBRD, owned by 61 countries and two intergovernmental
institutions, marked the 20th anniversary of its inception last
week. It has lent 60 billion euros since it was founded. Related
investments, including private funding, bring the total to
almost 180 billion euros, according to the bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  