-- 
Merkel’s Party Drops to Third in Bremen Elections Won by Social Democrats

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-05-23T08:07:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/merkel-is-unlikely-to-break-opposition-s-hold-in-bremen-state-vote-today.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
party slumped to its worst result in Bremen in more than 50
years, finishing behind the Greens for the first time in a state
election amid voter anger over the debt crisis and a flip-flop
on nuclear power.  Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  sank to third place in
yesterday’s ballot in Bremen, Germany’s smallest state, while
her Free Democratic Party coalition partner lost all its seats
in a regional parliament for the third time this year. The main
opposition  Social Democrats  cemented their 64-year hold on
Bremen and can continue their coalition with the Greens of the
past four years.  Merkel’s CDU has now lost support in all five state
elections so far this year even as unemployment falls to a 19-
year low and the economy grows a projected 3 percent for a
second year. Party officials blamed the result in Bremen on the
coalition’s reversal on support for atomic power after  Japan ’s
Fukushima disaster and the need to keep aiding debt-strapped
euro-area countries more than a year after the crisis erupted.  “Voters are deeply suspicious of the turmoil in
international financial markets and confidence in the German
coalition’s capacity to contain the troubles fades with every
twist in the debt crisis,” Hans-Juergen Hoffmann, head of the
Psephos polling company, said by phone.  The  Social Democratic Party  led by Mayor Jens Boehrnsen
took 38.3 percent in Bremen, a city-state that includes the car-
exporting port of Bremerhaven, preliminary results showed. The
Greens won 22.7 percent to take second place and resume its
coalition with the SPD. The Left Party took 5.8 percent.  FDP Crashes Out  Merkel’s CDU slid to 20.1 percent, its worst result since
1959, while the FDP crashed out of the state parliament with 2.6
percent, below the 5 percent threshold needed to win seats. The
FDP was ejected from parliament in Rhineland-Palatinate and
Saxony-Anhalt at elections this year, prompting a change of the
party’s leadership that took effect on May 13.  “A government has hardly ever faced such a host of
challenges,” Hermann Groehe, CDU general secretary, said on ARD
television, citing the coalition decision to speed the exit from
nuclear power after Fukushima and the need to handle “the hairy
situation of over-indebted euro states.” The consequences,
played out in Bremen, are “a bitter and painful defeat.”  Bremerhaven, as  Germany ’s main auto-shipping terminal, is
benefiting from an economic upswing in  Europe ’s biggest economy
that contrasts with struggling peripheral states such as Greece,
Portugal and Ireland that have required international bailouts.  Car Exports  About 660,000 vehicles were shipped through Bremerhaven in
the first four months of this year, an increase of 50 percent
compared with the same period last year, Bild newspaper reported
on May 14, citing Bremen-based BLG Logistics AG.  The world’s biggest auto transporter ship, the 265 meter-
long (869 foot) Tonsberg owned by Wallenius Wilhelmsen AS of
 Norway , berthed at Bremerhaven on May 19 to take on 858 vehicles
bound for the U.S.,  Australia  and  New Zealand , according to the
 BLG website . Three sister ships are due to be built by 2012, and
all will be “regular visitors” to Bremerhaven, BLG said.  “Bremerhaven’s car exports may be booming but voters
credit the German genius for car making, not the coalition,”
Hoffmann of Psephos said.  Nationally, Merkel’s coalition trails the opposition SPD
and Greens by as many as 13 percentage points in polls as euro-
area bailouts sap voter faith and erode confidence in the euro.  German pressure on debt-strapped euro countries to cut
spending and boost revenue is growing as the crisis returns to
 Greece , one year after a Europe-led bailout staved off its
default. Merkel last week called on Greeks, Spaniards and
Portuguese to stop retiring earlier and taking more vacation
time than Germans.  “The CDU has got into the difficult position where it has
to win back trust,”  Peter Altmaier , the CDU’s parliamentary
manager in Berlin, said yesterday on ZDF television, citing the
task of tackling the debt crisis. “That didn’t succeed this
evening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  