-- 
Euro Drops to Lowest Level in Seven Weeks Against Dollar Amid Greek Crisis

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-05-21T04:00:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/euro-tumbles-to-seven-week-low-against-dollar-amid-greek-crisis.html
The euro dropped to a seven-week low
versus the dollar as  Greece  moved closer to defaulting on its
obligations, bolstering concern the region’s sovereign-debt
crisis is worsening.  The yen reached its strongest level versus the euro since
the Group of Seven nations intervened in March to curb its gains
after a record earthquake. Greece’s debt rating was cut by  Fitch
Ratings . Spanish voters may defeat Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s Socialists, who have cut spending to fight the debt
crisis, in regional elections Sunday, polls show.  “The European debt markets are particularly unsettled at
this point, and any unsettling headlines certainly have the
potential to hurt the euro,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of
currency strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co . in  New York . “Policy
makers do appear to be fairly resistant to any kind of change in
the terms or conditions surrounding Greek debt. It’s negative
for the euro.”  Europe ’s shared currency fell 1 percent yesterday to
$1.4161 and touched $1.4048 on May 16, the lowest since March
29. On the week, it gained 0.3 percent, from $1.4119 on May 13.
The euro slid to 113.42 yen on May 16, the lowest level since
March 18. It rose 1.4 percent over the past five days to 115.69
yen in its first weekly advance this month. The dollar
strengthened 1.1 percent to 81.70 yen, from 80.80 on May 13.  Currencies of commodity-exporting countries including South
Africa and  Brazil  rose as the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB
Index of 19 raw materials increased 0.9 percent.  Greek Bonds Unacceptable  The euro’s weekly gain was cut yesterday after Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann, a member of the European Central Bank
Governing Council, said the ECB may not be able to accept
Greece’s sovereign debt as collateral if the bond maturities are
extended. The remarks added to signs of a division between
policy makers and politicians on Greek debt.  European political leaders this week floated the idea of
extending the Mediterranean nation’s debt-repayment schedule as
it struggles to meet the terms of last year’s 110 billion euro
($157 billion) rescue package.  “A prolongation of Greek  government bonds  in an
environment of prevailing strong doubts about the sustainability
of public finances would make it impossible to accept them as
collateral for refinancing operations under the existing
rules,” Weidmann said at a conference in Hamburg.
“Consequently large parts of the Greek financial sector would
be cut off from funding.”  ‘Default Event’  Fitch Ratings cut Greece’s long-term debt rating yesterday
to B+, four notches below investment grade, and said even a
voluntary extension of the bond maturities would be “a default
event.” Greek 10-year yields surged to a record 16.6 percent.  The elections in Spain will take place in 13 regions
accounting for 60 percent of the economy and more than 8,000
municipalities. Polls show the Socialists will likely be
defeated in most regions.  Investors have speculated  Spain  might follow Portugal,
Ireland and Greece in needing a financial rescue as the euro
region’s debt crisis spreads. Demonstrations against budget cuts
and bank bailouts have marked the run-up to the vote, which
takes place a year before polls to choose Zapatero’s successor.  The yen was the worst performer against major currencies
this week as  Japan  slid into its third recession in a decade and
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said he expects the central bank to
maintain a flexible monetary policy.  Gross domestic product in Japan contracted an annualized
3.7 percent in the first quarter, following a 3 percent drop in
the fourth, the Cabinet Office said May 19 in  Tokyo .  ‘Death Knell’  “The fact that Japan is officially in a recession again is
the death knell for the yen,” said  Paresh Upadhyaya , Americas G-
10 currency-strategy head at Bank of America Corp. in New York.  The Bank of Japan’s policy board unanimously voted
yesterday to maintain monetary policy even after the GDP data.
It has a 30-trillion yen ($370 billion) credit program and a 10-
trillion yen asset-purchase fund. The board also kept the key
interest rate at zero to 0.1 percent.  South Africa ’s rand was the second-best performer against
the greenback, strengthening 1.5 percent to 6.9147. Brazil’s
real rose 0.8 percent to 1.6228 per dollar. Both nations export
raw materials.  The Swiss franc was the best performer against the euro,
climbing 1.4 percent to 1.2425 and touching 1.2403, the
strongest level since Dec. 30.  Swiss Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann said the government and central bank will
consider taking “appropriate” measures should it keep rising.  Fed Strategy  The dollar fell versus most peers as minutes of the  Federal
Reserve ’s meeting on April 26-27 showed that while officials
began to coalesce on a strategy to reverse record monetary
stimulus, no action is imminent.  Almost all officials agreed the “first step toward
normalization” should be ceasing reinvestment of principal
payments on mortgage debt, the minutes showed. Raising interest
rates would come later. Talks over the exit strategy don’t mean
tightening “would necessarily begin soon,” the minutes said.  “Investors are coming back to the realization they want to
sell the dollar, and there is very little reason to own it
because the Federal Reserve is going to be on hold,” said  Kathy Lien , currency research director at online currency trader GFT
Forex in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  