-- 
HP Revamps Top Management to Boost Growth, Accountability

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-06-14T20:43:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/hewlett-packard-s-haas-iannotti-are-said-to-leave-amid-management-shuffle.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chief Executive
Officer  Leo Apotheker  elevated executives in the software, sales
and services divisions, part of a leadership realignment aimed
at boosting sales and making managers more accountable.  Bill Veghte, who runs software; Jan Zadak, executive vice
president of global sales; and  Dave Donatelli , head of the unit
in charge of servers, storage, networking and some services,
will report directly to Apotheker, Hewlett-Packard said
yesterday.  Ann Livermore , a 29-year company veteran passed over
three times for the top job, will join Hewlett-Packard’s board.  Apotheker, who took the helm Nov. 1, is shifting managers
to spur growth and slice costs after he cut $1 billion from his
annual revenue projection last month. The changes establish
clearer reporting lines and give Apotheker direct oversight of
business computing, software and sales. They may also interfere
with revival efforts as customers and staff adapt to new
managers, ISI Group analyst  Abhey Lamba  wrote in a note.  “Senior management changes in the services group could
impact HP’s ability to turn the business around in the near
term,” he wrote yesterday. “Departure of senior management and
appointment of a new segment chief could cause disruption.”  The moves reflect Apotheker’s aim, outlined March 14, to
expand in software, cloud computing services and international
sales.  Todd Bradley , who runs the division that includes
personal computers, and  Vyomesh Joshi , head of the printer unit,
will take on additional responsibilities to extend the company’s
market share in China and  India , respectively.  ‘No Ambiguity Anymore’  Livermore, who joined Palo Alto, California-based Hewlett-
Packard in 1982, will cease day-to-day management of the
division that caters to large corporations. The move eliminates
overlap in the oversight of enterprise computing, Shaw Wu, an
analyst at Sterne Agee Leach & Co. in San Francisco, who rates
the company “buy.” Livermore, who had supervised Donatelli,
will continue to lead enterprise services while the company
looks for a new executive to run outsourcing and consulting, the
areas outside Donatelli’s purview.  “Dave Donatelli is now the undisputed head of the
enterprise business,” Wu said. “There’s no ambiguity
anymore.”  Chief Administrative Officer Pete Bocian and Chief
Information Officer Randy Mott are also departing, effective
immediately, Hewlett-Packard said.  Bocian had run real estate operations and other
 administrative  functions. His job is being eliminated. Mott, who
joined Hewlett-Packard in 2005, had worked at  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL) , and was instrumental in the move by former
CEO Mark Hurd to close 84 data centers to save $1 billion in
costs. The company is looking for a new CIO.  Ann’s ‘a Fixture’  Apotheker’s realignment is likely to “increase
accountability across the organization,” said Brian Marshall,
an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in San Francisco, who has a “buy”
rating on the shares. “He’s kind of a slow mover as we’re
starting to learn, but he’s finally making some changes.”  Many large customers that long dealt with Livermore will
need to forge relationships with new executives, said Sterne
Agee’s Wu.  “Ann’s been a fixture,” he said.  Hewlett-Packard added 8 cents to $34.73 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have lost 18
percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  