-- 
Texas Lieutenant Governor, Speaker Set $80.6 Billion Budget Plan

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-21T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/texas-lieutenant-governor-speaker-set-80-6-billion-budget-plan.html
Texas legislative leaders agreed to
an $80.6 billion two-year spending plan that cuts expenses from
current levels while relying on $1.2 billion of additional  tax
revenue  tied to an improving economy.  A 10-member conference committee, along with Lieutenant
GovernorDavid Dewhurst and House Speaker Joe Straus, reconciled
the  House of Representatives  and Senate versions of a budget for
the 2012-2013 biennium. Final approval still hinges on passage
of several bills including financing of public schools and
universities, Dewhurst said in a statement.  The overall spending plan reflects at least $15 billion in
cuts compared with current levels in the fiscal year that ends
Aug. 31, Dewhurst said.  The agreement reached with the Senate yesterday “funds
nursing homes, our public schools and universities, and provides
financial aid for college students while keeping substantial
revenue in reserves and avoiding any new taxes,” Straus said in
a statement.  Democrats including Representative Garnet Coleman of
Houston criticized the budget for not spending enough to keep up
with  Texas ’s population growth. “It’s the most irresponsible
budget I’ve ever seen,” Coleman said in an interview.  Texas’s budget outlook brightened when Comptroller Susan Combs estimated May 17 that the state would have $1.2 billion
more in general revenue than previously forecast for the two
years beginning in September, mostly because of higher sales tax
collections. The budget doesn’t include use of the main  reserve
fund , which is being tapped to fill a $3 billion gap for the
current year.  Education Lobbying  Lobbying by superintendents and other public school
advocates helped limit reductions in education spending, said
Dominic Giarratani, a lobbyist for the Texas Association of
School Boards. “It’s still a mess,” he said. “Our schools are
adding 80,000 students each year and our operations are being
under-funded by $4 billion.”  Texas ranks 44th in public school spending per student,
according to Raise Your Hand Texas, a nonprofit school advocacy
group in Austin that has run television ads by actor Tommy Lee Jones and former AT&T Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Ed Whitacre 
urging use of the Rainy Day fund. Jones and Whitacre are native
Texans.  Republicans hold 101 of 150 seats in the House and 19 of 31
Senate seats, while Governor  Rick Perry  has pressed legislators
to save the Rainy Day fund for more difficult times and limit
spending.  Medicaid Shortfall  The budget assumes funding for the Medicaid insurance
program for low-income citizens will run out by March 2013,
forcing the next Legislature to fill a gap of as much as $4.8
billion for four or five months, said Anne Dunkelberg, associate
director of the Center for Public Policy Priorities, an Austin-
based research group that lobbies for the poor. Federal and
state Medicaid spending in Texas in 2010 topped $21 billion for
3.5 million people, or about 14 percent of the state’s
population of 25 million, she said.  Texas should adopt both spending cuts and “revenue
enhancements” to solve long-term budget pressures,  Standard &
Poor’s  said in a February report. Perry and the Republican-led
legislature have rejected consideration of new taxes or ending
business-tax exemptions, citing the need for schools and state
agencies to operate more efficiently.  Lawmakers are attempting to finish their work by May 30,
the last day the Legislature may meet under Texas law unless
Perry calls a special session.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in New York at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  