-- 
Foxconn Technology Probes Blast, Fire at China’s Chengdu Plant

-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 
2011-05-21T06:32:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/foxconn-technology-investigates-explosion-fire-at-chengdu-plant-in-china.html
Foxconn Technology Group, maker of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhones and iPads, is investigating the cause of an
explosion and fire at its plant in southwest China’s Sichuan
province that killed two people and injured 16.  “We have begun investigation for the unfortunate
incident,”  Edmund Ding , a company spokesman, said by phone
today. “We will brief the public as soon as we have new
findings.”  The blast on Foxconn’s Chengdu campus occurred at about 7
p.m. local time yesterday, and the fire was extinguished late
last night, Ding said. He declined to say what products the
factory makes or estimate financial loss related to the accident.  Terry Gou, chairman of Taiwan-based Foxconn, has been
shifting production to Chengdu and other interior cities in
 China  such as Wuhan and Chongqing, where labor is about one-
third cheaper than in the country’s south. The $2 billion laptop
plant where the explosion took place opened in October, Xinhua
reported yesterday.  The affected plant makes Apple’s iPad2 tablet computers,
the Economic Observer said on its website yesterday, citing
unidentified company workers. Gou is flying to Chengdu, the
Beijing-based newspaper said, citing unidentified company
employees.  “We are working closely with Foxconn at this point to
understand what caused this terrible event,” Steve Dowling, a
spokesman for Cupertino, California-based Apple, said in a phone
interview. “We are deeply saddened by the tragedy.”  Dowling declined to comment on any possible supply
disruptions, referring questions to Foxconn.  Police in Chengdu said they concluded preliminarily that
the explosion, in a polishing workshop, wasn’t intentionally
caused, China News Service said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  