-- 
Greek Government Bonds Slump on Mounting Concerns Over Debt Restructuring

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-05-21T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/greek-government-bonds-slump-on-concerns-over-debt-restructuring.html
Greek  government bonds  plunged,
driving up 10-year yields to a record, amid mounting bets the
nation won’t be able to avoid reorganizing its debt.  Greek two-year notes fell for the first time in three
weeks. The spread, or yield difference, between the 10-year
bonds and similar-maturity German bunds widened to an all-time
high. Fitch downgraded  Greece ’s credit rating to B+ from BB+,
four notches below investment grade, boosting demand for the
relative safety of German government bonds.  “We still have the backdrop of possible Greek
restructuring, and concerns over that are driving peripherals
lower and pushing spreads wider,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-
income strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank
in London.  The Greek 10-year yield rose 113 basis points in the week
to 16.57 percent as of 5:18 p.m. yesterday in  London  after
reaching a euro-era record 16.59 percent earlier. The nation’s
two-year note yield climbed 57 basis points to 25.46 percent. It
reached a record 26.77 percent on May 12.  Greece’s budget deficit is forecast to exceed the 7.5
percent of GDP target under the EU-led bailout, reaching 9.5
percent this year, the European Commission said on May 13. The
nation’s debt, already the euro area’s biggest relative to
economic output, may reach 158 percent of GDP this year and peak
at 166 percent next year.  Loss Limitation  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  this week
proposed “reprofiling” Greek debt maturities as a way of
limiting the losses of private bondholders. European Central
Bank officials opposed the idea with Executive Board member
 Juergen Stark  saying any form of restructuring would be a
catastrophe for the banking system. Fellow board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said a solution for reducing debt “but not paying
for it will not work.”  Fitch said it would regard an extension of the maturities
of existing Greek government bonds being considered by European
Union policy makers to be a “default event” and that the a B+
rating reflects Fitch’s view that the nation’s sovereign bonds
will not be subject to a “soft restructuring.”  ECB Council member Jens Weidmann said May 20 that the
central bank may no longer be able to accept Greek bonds as
collateral for refinancing operations.  Irish two-year yields declined 92 basis points in the week
to 11.50 percent, after reaching a euro-era record 12.69 percent
on May 16, while 10-year yields were three basis points higher
at 10.54 percent.  Irish Debt Sale  The Celtic nation’s National Treasury Management Agency
plans to meet investors, including those in  China , to discuss a
potential international debt sale, the Irish Independent
reported without saying where it obtained the information.  German two-year note yields were little changed in the week
to 1.77 percent. Ten-year bund yields were two basis points
lower at 3.06 percent.  German government bonds have handed investors a loss of 0.8
percent this year through May 19, according to indexes compiled
by the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and
Bloomberg. U.S. Treasuries have returned a profit of 2 percent.
Greek debt lost 11.4 percent, with Irish securities losing 6.6
percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  