-- 
Ivory Coast’s Ouattara Is Sworn In as President, Pledges Reconciliation

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 
2011-05-21T19:51:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/ivory-coast-s-ouattara-is-sworn-in-as-president-pledges-reconciliation.html
Alassane Ouattara was sworn in as
 Ivory Coast ’s president today and pledged to reconcile the west
African nation after its violent post-election crisis.  “Today is the beginning of a new era for all Ivorians that
marks a common will to write a new page of history for Ivory
Coast,” he said today in Yamoussoukro, the political capital.  The 69-year-old economist’s victory in the November
election led to four months of violence between his supporters
and those loyal to incumbent  Laurent Gbagbo , who ruled the
world’s largest cocoa producer for a decade and who refused to
cede power.  Gbagbo was captured by the Ivorian Republican Forces
militia in Abidjan, the commercial capital, on April 11
following a 10-day siege on the city. French troops, United
Nations peacekeepers and the pro-Ouattara fighters battled
Gbagbo’s armed supporters. At least 2,000 people were killed
during the crisis, according to the UN.  “To all Ivorians and to all who are living on Ivorian soil,
I appeal for reconciliation and hope. I am solemnly committed to
begin the reconciliation process through dialogue, solidarity
and justice,” Ouattara said in the speech.  The ceremony was attended by French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and UN Secretary-General Ban ki-Moon, as well as at
least 10 regional heads of state, including Goodluck Jonathan of
 Nigeria , Blaise Compaore of  Burkina Faso , Abdoulaye Wade of
 Senegal  and Paul Biya of Cameroon.  “This is more than just an inauguration,” Ouattara said in
the speech. “It is the return of Ivory Coast into the
international and African scene that we are celebrating today.”  Ouattara spent the post-electoral stalemate holed up in the
seaside Golf Hotel in Abidjan, where he named ministers and
enforced a ban on exports of cocoa and coffee in a bid to starve
Gbagbo of funds.  Thousands of jubilant residents lined the streets of
Yamoussoukro as U.N. armored vehicles were deployed to secure
the city, which is the birthplace of Ivory Coast’s first
president Felix Houphouet-Boigny.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax in Abidjan and Olivier Monnier in Yamoussoukro via
Accra at   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 