-- 
John Malone’s Barnes & Noble Bid Evokes ‘Buffett-Like’ Liberty Strategy

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y   a n d   M a t t h e w   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-05-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/john-malone-s-barnes-noble-bid-evokes-buffett-like-liberty-strategy.html
John Malone ’s bid for  Barnes & Noble
Inc. (BKS)  may have little to do with integrating the bookseller into
his other businesses. Instead, he may simply see an opportunity
to profit by lending support to an out-of-favor company, much
like fellow billionaire  Warren Buffett , analysts said.  Malone’s Liberty Media Corp. offered to buy Barnes & Noble
on May 19 for $17 a share, or 20 percent more than its closing
price that day. The New York-based company has been searching
for a buyer since last year.  The largest U.S. bookstore chain may not have an obvious
benefit to Liberty holdings such as  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI) , the
Starz media group, and the QVC home-shopping network, said  Chris Marangi  at Gamco Investors Inc. Still, a Malone buyout could
give the bookseller financial and management support so it can
build its electronic-reader business and better compete as the
book retailing industry shifts online, he said.  “This is Buffett-like,” Marangi said in an interview.
“Malone and Liberty CEO Greg Maffei are great partners. They
are able to offer a lot of guidance and open doors with
financing sources and other strategic partners.”  Liberty said it would put Barnes & Noble into its Liberty
Capital, a holding company with stakes in Sirius and  Live Nation
Entertainment Inc. (LYV) , rather than Liberty Interactive, which
includes its home-shopping and online businesses. The Englewood,
Colorado-based company’s bid is contingent on  Leonard Riggio ,
Barnes & Noble’s chairman, keeping his roughly 30 percent stake
and a management role at the company.  “It’s typical Malone,” said Marangi, a portfolio manager
at Rye, New York-based Gamco, which has stakes in Liberty
Capital and Barnes & Noble. “They’re value buyers.”  Stock Surge  Liberty cited Barnes & Noble’s leading position in
bookselling, digital efforts and management expertise in a
statement at the time of its bid. Neither Malone nor Maffei
responded to calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Barnes & Noble soared $4.22, or 30 percent, to $18.33
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading,
suggesting investors expect a higher bid. Liberty Capital’s
Class A shares fell $1.84, or 2.1 percent, to $87.50 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading, and have climbed 40 percent this year.  Like Buffett, who built Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. with a mix of businesses picked for their
individual merit rather than combined synergies, Malone is
increasingly taking advantage of independent, value plays on
businesses where he sees opportunity, said  Matthew Harrigan , an
analyst at Wunderlich Securities in Denver.  “Like with Sirius, I think they are showing some
flexibility in terms of businesses they are making investments
in,” said Harrigan, who recommends investors buy Liberty
Capital shares and doesn’t own them.  Sirius Deal  Malone made his investment in Sirius in February 2009,
after the satellite radio company said it may have to file for
bankruptcy and its stock had fallen to 10 cents a share. Liberty
loaned the New York-based company $530 million and paid $12,500
for a warrant granting it a 40 percent equity stake.  Liberty made about $175 million on the loan, in addition to
having the money repaid, Maffei said in December 2009. The
company’s preferred stock is convertible into 2.59 billion
Sirius shares, worth about $5.7 billion at yesterday’s closing
price of $2.22.  While Barnes & Noble put itself up for sale last August and
attracted little interest, the recent success of its Nook e-
reader may be part of the draw for Liberty, said Sandy Mehta, an
analyst at Hong Kong-based Value Investment Principals Ltd.  Chasing Amazon  Barnes & Noble’s investments in developing the Nook and
creating an e-book library have fueled revenue gains. Sales at
Barnes & Noble stores open at least a year rose 7.3 percent in
the quarter ended Jan. 29, the first increase since 2007. Online
revenue, where all digital content purchases are recorded,
surged 52 percent to $319.4 million last quarter.  The spending has helped Barnes & Noble narrow the gap with
market leader  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , which released its Kindle digital
book reader in 2007, two years before the Nook’s debut.  “I think this move is about people accessing books
online,” Mehta said. “The bricks and mortar will go by the
wayside. But the question is will people pay enough for books
online or will they download for free like the music business.”  The February bankruptcy of  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based
Borders Group Inc. may reduce competition for Barnes & Noble.
Borders, which plans to close about one-third of its stores,
hasn’t yet found a buyer, people with knowledge of the situation
said on May 14.  Board Review  Liberty has retailing and e-commerce businesses, though not
in traditional brick-and-mortar outlets like Barnes & Noble’s.
Liberty’s e-commerce holdings include  Backcountry.com , Celebrate
Interactive and Bodybuilding.com. The businesses are part of
Liberty Interactive, which also includes QVC.  Company executives are scheduled to appear on May 23 at a
special shareholders meeting in Denver, where Liberty investors
will vote on a previously announced plan to split off the
Liberty Capital and Liberty Starz units.  Barnes & Noble said a board committee will evaluate
Liberty’s proposed acquisition, which values the company at
about $1 billion and is subject to an accord and shareholder and
regulatory approvals.  Malone stands a good chance of completing the deal, though
he’s unlikely to pay much more than the current offer, said
Marangi.  “The market is expecting either Liberty to increase its
bid or another buyer to enter the picture,” he said. “I’m not
sure either of those is likely to happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  