-- 
Netanyahu Tells Obama Israel Can’t Return to ‘Indefensible’ 1967 Borders

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-05-21T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/obama-netanyahu-spar-at-white-house-over-palestinian-borders.html
President  Barack Obama  and Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu made little effort to disguise
their differences over the borders of a future Palestinian state.  After a two-hour White House meeting yesterday, Netanyahu
once again rejected Obama’s call to use the boundaries of the
 West Bank  and  Gaza Strip  from before the 1967 Middle East war as
a starting point for negotiations with the Palestinians, calling
those lines “indefensible.”  “What I saw was an Israeli prime minister who was
interested in paying back an American president for willfully
giving a public speech on the eve of the meeting that all but
ensured a significant difference of opinion,” said  Aaron David Miller , a former U.S. Mideast peace negotiator who is now a
fellow at the  Woodrow Wilson International Center  in  Washington .  Obama’s May 19 policy speech marked the first time a U.S.
president has explicitly backed using the 1967 boundaries as the
basis for talks that would have Israel cede control of some land
to Palestinians in return for peace and security. The president,
who said those borders should be subject to negotiated
alterations and that a Palestinian state must be demilitarized,
offered no steps to restart the stalled peace talks.  Israel “can’t go back” to the boundaries that prevailed
before the 1967 Middle East war, Netanyahu said at the White
House, with the U.S. president sitting next to him. “A peace
founded on illusions will crash eventually on the rocks of
Middle Eastern reality.”  Differences  Obama told reporters that he and Netanyahu “discussed in
depth” the principles he laid out May 19 in a speech on the
upheaval in the Middle East and North Africa.  “Obviously there are some differences between us in the
precise formulations and language, and that’s going to happen
between friends,” Obama said.  He reiterated U.S. support for  Israel ’s security, saying
“a true peace can only occur if the ultimate resolution allows
Israel to defend itself against threats.”  The two leaders said the reconciliation accord Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  signed this month with Hamas -
- classified as a terrorist group by Israel and the U.S. --
threatens any opportunity for discussions.  “Israel cannot negotiate with a Palestinian government
that is backed by Hamas,” Netanyahu said, calling the group the
“Palestinian version of al-Qaeda.”  Obama said Israel can’t be expected to negotiate with a
party that refuses to acknowledge its right to exist and the
“Palestinians are going to have to answer some very difficult
questions about this agreement that’s been made between Fatah
and Hamas.”  Extended Discussion  Palestinian leaders, who have said they won’t renew peace
negotiations with Israel unless Netanyahu stops construction in
Jewish settlements, saw no reason for optimism after the meeting
in Washington.  Netanyahu “looked into Obama’s eyes at the White House and
told him bluntly, ‘I will not accept your vision of the
Palestinian state within the 1967 borders,’” the chief
Palestinian negotiator,  Saeb Erakat , said in a telephone
interview from his home in the West Bank town of Jericho.  Miller said the two leaders took the opportunity to
disagree publicly now because “there’s no peace process and no
prospect for a peace process.”  The meeting, originally scheduled to last about 50 minutes,
was a “prolonged and extremely useful conversation,” Obama
said. The two continued the discussions at a working lunch.  Land Exchanges  In his speech, Obama said a deal along 1967 lines, which
has been the basis for off-and-on talks for 20 years, needs to
include land exchanges to allow Israel to retain major
settlement blocs in return for granting offsetting land to
Palestinians.  The Israeli leader indicated before reaching Washington
that he expected the talks to focus more on his disagreements
with Obama than on resurrecting the  peace process .  “There are some things that cannot be swept under the
carpet,” Netanyahu told reporters on the flight from Israel.  Obama said yesterday that Israel’s concerns can be met.  “I think that it is possible for us to shape a deal that
allows Israel to secure itself,” Obama said.  “We have differences here and there,” Netanyahu said,
“but I think there’s an overall direction that we wish to work
together to pursue a real genuine peace between Israel and its
Palestinian neighbors.”  Two Addresses  Obama is scheduled to address the  American Israel Public
Affairs Committee , a pro-Israel lobbying organization, tomorrow
in Washington. Netanyahu is set to speak to the group the next
day. The Israeli leader will also address a joint session of
Congress.  Israeli-Palestinian negotiations stalled shortly after they
resumed in September 2010 when Netanyahu refused to extend a 10-
month settlement-building freeze that Palestinians made a
condition for talks to continue.  Obama’s language on the borders was an incremental move,
not a break with what has been U.S. policy, said  Daniel Kurtzer ,
a former ambassador to Israel and  Egypt . He said that while it
has long been assumed that 1967 borders will form the basis for
an agreement, “when you finally get an articulation of U.S.
policy, it means something.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Washington at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  