-- 
Toshiba Design Questions May Slow U.S. Regulator’s Nuclear Plant Approvals

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-05-21T03:01:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/toshiba-design-questions-may-slow-u-s-regulator-s-nuclear-plant-approvals.html
U.S. nuclear regulators are demanding
more information about  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s new reactor design,
potentially delaying its approval for use by power companies
such as  Southern Co. (SO)  and  Scana Corp. (SCG)   The  Nuclear Regulatory Commission ’s review of the AP1000
reactor, developed by Toshiba’s  Westinghouse Electric Co. , has
uncovered “additional technical issues,”  Gregory Jaczko , the
agency’s chairman, said in a statement yesterday. Westinghouse
“must prove to our satisfaction that the company has
appropriately and completely documented the adequacy of the
design,” Jaczko said.  The U.S. hasn’t approved a construction license for a
commercial nuclear plant in more than three decades, and the
Westinghouse AP1000 is a popular design among the power
companies that want to start a new wave of reactor projects.  The NRC’s schedule calls for a decision on the AP1000’s
design this year. That timetable isn’t so clear now that
regulators want more information from Westinghouse, Scott Burnell, an NRC spokesman, said in an interview.  “There will be some sort of delay in the certification,”
Burnell said. The duration won’t be known “until we get
Westinghouse’s answers and have a chance to look at them,” he
said.  Westinghouse is confident the NRC’s questions won’t stop it
getting the reactor certified “as expected this fall,” Vaughn Gilbert, a company spokesman, said in an interview. Southern and
Scana, which each plan to build two AP1000 reactors, said they
also expect their projects to be approved without delay.  Peak Pressures  The NRC wants more information about the “shield
building” that will house the Westinghouse reactor and a tank
on top of it that stores cooling water, Burnell said. The agency
also has questions about how containment structures inside the
shield building will perform under “peak accident pressures,”
he said.  None of the agency’s queries stem from the reactor-safety
review triggered by the partial meltdown at a Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant after a March 11 earthquake
and tsunami, Burnell said.  Four AP1000 reactors are under construction in  China ,
 according to Westinghouse . It’s “one of the most studied,
reviewed and analyzed nuclear-power plant designs in the history
of the commercial nuclear-power industry,” the unit of Tokyo-
based Toshiba said in a  statement  on its website. The NRC’s
questions are “part of the normal licensing process” and the
agency should conclude the AP1000 is a “safe, robust design,”
the company said.  ‘Unsafe’ Design  Nuclear-industry critics seized on Jaczko’s statement as a
sign the agency may be changing its mind on new reactors after
the crisis at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, the worst atomic-
power incident since the 1986 Chernobyl disaster.  “This unsafe reactor design had been the cornerstone of
efforts to build new nuclear reactors in the  United States ,”
Tom Clements, a nuclear campaign coordinator for  Friends of the
Earth  in Columbia, South Carolina, said in an e-mail.  Jaczko’s demand for more information on the AP1000 design
is a “welcome development,” Edwin Lyman, a nuclear specialist
with the  Union of Concerned Scientists  based in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , said in an interview.  “This may be a sign of that the NRC is increasing its
scrutiny of certain gray areas in light of Fukushima,” Lyman
said.  Shaw Group  Shaw Group Inc. (SHAW)  fell $1.59, or 4.1 percent, to $37.32 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday. The  Baton
Rouge , Louisiana-based engineering and construction company
holds a 20 percent stake in Westinghouse, according to a
regulatory filing last month. Atlanta-based Southern’s shares
fell 35 cents to $40.47 yesterday. Scana of Cayce, South
Carolina, fell 35 cents to $41.49.  The NRC is considering six applications from five U.S.
power companies to build AP1000 reactors, according to Burnell.
If the reactor design is approved, the agency will decide
separately whether each company can move ahead with
construction, he said.  The NRC’s schedule calls for decisions this year on reactor
projects led by Southern in Georgia and Scana in  South Carolina .  Southern doesn’t expect the approval process will be
delayed, Steve Higginbottom, a company spokesman, said in an e-
mail.  “We have confidence in the AP1000 technology and we
anticipate receiving our combined construction and operating
license by the end this year,” Higginbottom said.  Yesterday’s announcement from the NRC is “a normal part of
the NRC review process” and it shouldn’t stop the Scana project
from being approved by “the end of this year or early 2012,”
Rhonda O’Banion, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  