-- 
Pakistan Leaves Key Rate at 14% as Inflation Slows, Budget Cuts Probable

-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-05-21T19:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/pakistan-leaves-key-rate-at-14-as-inflation-slows-budget-cuts-probable.html
Pakistan  extended a six-month pause
in interest-rate increases as inflation eased and the central
bank awaits next month’s budget for signs the government will
tighten fiscal policy and help contain prices pressures.  The  State Bank of Pakistan  left the discount rate unchanged
at 14 percent, among the highest in the world, according to a
central bank statement in Karachi yesterday. The decision was
predicted by all 10 economists and researchers surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  The central bank raised rates in three consecutive meetings
from July to November, blaming excess state spending for pushing
inflation to more than 15 percent late last year. The government
may be forced to cut spending in its budget after the discovery
and killing of al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in Pakistan led
some U.S. lawmakers to call for a reduction in aid.  “The budget will determine the future outlook for
inflation and rates,” Sayem Ali, a Karachi-based economist at
Standard Chartered Plc, said before the decision. “The fiscal
conditions will be tricky especially after a possible slowdown
in external financing with the Osama episode here, and not-so-
encouraging developments with  International Monetary Fund 
support.”  The budget is scheduled to be announced on June 3, Finance
Minister Hafeez Shaikh told reporters in Karachi yesterday. The
 finance ministry  had said earlier it would be released May 28.  Pakistan’s government needs external aid to support an
economic growth target of 4.2 percent for the next fiscal year,
as it seeks to reduce the  budget deficit  to 4.5 percent of gross
domestic product. The shortfall is expected to reach 5.5 percent
this year, compared with the official target of 4 percent, the
Finance Ministry said April 27.  Fiscal Pressures  “The government is mindful of fiscal pressures and has
expressed resolve to address these issues in the budget,” the
central bank said in its monetary policy statement yesterday.  The International Monetary Fund told Pakistani economic
officials in a weeklong review of the economy that ended May 17
that the government needs to keep cutting the deficit to take
pressure off monetary policy and allow more credit to companies.  The budget will target new areas for taxation to help
increase revenue, Shaikh said yesterday. “The budget will
target economic stability, reducing the role of the government
and encouraging private sector investment.”  IMF Conditions  The Washington-based fund stopped disbursing money to
Pakistan in May last year after the country failed to meet
conditions attached to an $11.3 billion loan first issued in
2008. In December, the IMF approved a nine-month extension of
the loan to give Pakistani authorities time to comply with some
elements of the agreement, including implementing an overhauled
sales tax.  The Pakistan rupee climbed 0.3 percent to 87.25 against the
dollar in the open market after the central bank’s announcement
yesterday, Malik Bostan, a spokesman for the Forex Dealers
Association said by phone from Karachi.  The Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index has advanced 23
percent this financial year after advancing 36 percent in the
previous year ended June 30.  The South Asian nation has received $14.6 billion in
economic and military aid from the U.S. since 2005 to help
revive growth and fight Taliban militants along the border with
 Afghanistan .  Capitol Hill   Whether Pakistani government and intelligence officials
shielded bin Laden has become an issue on Capitol Hill, where
some senators have called for postponing any more U.S. financial
aid until Pakistan’s commitment to fighting terrorism can be re-
evaluated.  Senator  John Kerry , the Massachusetts Democrat who leads
the Foreign Relations Committee and was an architect of a 2009
bill committing $1.5 billion annually to Pakistan, said this
month many members of the  U.S. Congress  are questioning that aid
after bin Laden was found sheltering in the country. They say
President Asif Ali Zardari’s administration must crack down on
insurgent groups that target American forces in Afghanistan.  Pakistan’s $162 billion economy, sapped by terrorism and
floods in 2010, is lagging behind emerging markets including
neighbors India and  China , which helped lead the global economic
rebound from the deepest postwar recession.  President Zardari announced in March a 15 percent surcharge
on income tax to counter losses from the nation’s worst monsoon
flooding last year, and an increase in  import duties  to 2.5
percent from 1 percent. The government will also withdraw sales
tax exemptions on fertilizer, pesticides and tractors.  The government raised domestic fuel prices as much as 12
percent on May 1, after increasing them 13 percent on April 1,
to bring charges in line with international  oil prices ,
according to the Islamabad-based Oil & Gas Regulatory Authority.  “The fuel-subsidy reduction and the tax measure indicate
the budget will bring tight fiscal policy,” Saad Khan, an
economist at Arif Habib Ltd. in Karachi, said before the
decision. “Another reason not to raise rates is the easing in
inflation last month.”  Pakistan’s consumer prices rose 13.04 percent in April from
a year earlier, after a 13.16 percent gain in March, a  Federal
Bureau of Statistics  report showed on May 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  