-- 
Polish Inflation to Peak After Rate Increase Ends ‘Hysteria,’ Belka Says

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-05-21T11:55:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/polish-inflation-may-peak-in-two-months-hysteria-is-ending-belka-says.html
Polish central bank Governor Marek Belka said inflation in the eastern European country will peak
within two months and a surprise interest rate increase in May
isn’t a start of “a new trajectory” in monetary tightening.  “We are really very close to the peak” of consumer-price
growth, Belka said in an interview in the Kazakh capital Astana
today. The rate increase wasn’t to signal “a new trajectory of
interest rate increases. It’s simply that we want to implement
our strategy faster.”  The central bank unexpectedly raised its benchmark seven-
day rate by a quarter-point to 4.25 percent on May 11. The bank
sought to pre-empt pressure on prices as  consumer spending  is
picking up. The inflation rate rose to a 2 1/2-year high of 4.5
percent last month.  Wage growth is accelerating in  Poland , the European Union’s
largest eastern member which escaped a recession altogether
during the credit crisis. The Polish central bank raised
borrowing costs three times since January as policy makers
across the globe struggle to curb inflation.  The rate move probably changed perceptions of how fast
prices are going to rise and will “moderate” economic growth
in Poland, Belka said. Imported inflation is also eroding the
purchasing power of consumers, he said.  ‘Hysteria Is Over’  Following the rate increase “we are observing a certain
attenuation of inflationary expectations.” Belka said. “The
hysteria is over.”  The inflation rate may drop “close” to the central bank’s
target of 2.5 percent late next year, Belka said. The rate has
been above the bank’s goal for seven months.  Government efforts to limit public spending may help combat
inflation in the country, he said.  Even so, Belka said he has “some doubts” the government
will be able to reduce the  budget deficit  to 2.9 percent of
gross domestic product as planned next year.  The central bank took the government’s pledge “seriously”
that it will implement “additional measures if necessary” to
cap expenditures, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Nariman Gizitdinov in Astana at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  