-- 
Prokhorov May Be Pro-Business Candidate for President

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-05-21T18:27:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/prokhorov-may-be-pro-business-candidate-for-president-correct-.html
(Corrects to show Prokhorov plans to consider whether to
run for president sometime after the Pravoye Delo congress, in a
story originally published May 17.)  Mikhail Prokhorov, Russia’s third-
richest man, may be planning to seek the presidency on a pro-
business ticket as President  Dmitry Medvedev  and Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  delay a decision on which of them will run.  The 46-year-old owner of the New Jersey Nets basketball
team will pursue the chairmanship of Pravoye Delo, or Right
Cause, and plans to consider whether to run for president
sometime after the party’s annual meeting later this year,
Prokhorov told Bloomberg and state TV yesterday at Vnukovo
Airport near Moscow.  While Prokhorov may help boost the fortunes of Right Cause,
he isn’t likely to be an active politician, said  Roland Nash ,
chief investment strategist at Verno Capital, a Moscow hedge
fund that manages about $140 million. The party was founded in
2008 to unite those who value the market economy, human rights
and democracy, according to its website.  Prokhorov is “in a relatively unusual position: he’s on
good terms with the party of power and with the main leaders of
Pravoye Delo,” Nash said. “He is therefore likely to be an
acceptable face of the liberal right.  Mikhail Prokhorov  is not a
billionaire who likes to take unnecessary risks.”  Prokhorov, with a fortune that Forbes puts at $18 billion,
said he hasn’t discussed his interest in the party chairmanship
with either Medvedev or Putin. Dmitry Orlov, an analyst at the
Moscow-based Agency for Political and Economic Communications,
which advises the government, said it’s clear the move is
supported by both.  7 Percent Goal  The party will compete in December parliamentary elections
against Putin’s  United Russia , which holds 315 of 450 seats in
the State Duma and has about 2 million members.  Right Cause, with 65,000 members, is targeting at least 7
percent of the vote, the minimum needed to gain representation
in parliament, co-Chairman Leonid Gozman said by phone.  “I certainly have a program, but I won’t comment until I’m
elected at the Pravoye Delo congress,” Prokhorov said. The
billionaire said he wants a free hand to bring in new people and
may change the party’s name.  His statement comes 10 days after Putin announced plans to
bring together business, trade union, women’s and youth groups
under the banner of United  Russia  as support for the party
wanes. Medvedev on May 13 warned against an “excessive
concentration of power.”  “Chronologically it was the right step,” Igor Yurgens,
who heads the Institute of Contemporary Development, set up by
Medvedev, said of Prokhorov’s move. “Otherwise, people would
have had the impression that it will again be a one-party system
in the country.”  Putin, Medvedev  Putin, 58, handed the presidency to Medvedev, a 45-year-old
lawyer from his hometown of  St. Petersburg , in 2008, after
serving two consecutive terms, the most allowed by the
constitution. Neither has ruled out running in 2012.  United Russia’s approval rating fell to 43 percent last
month, from 51 percent in December and 64 percent in the 2007
election, according to the Public Opinion Foundation in Moscow.  Prokhorov said his decision to seek the leadership of Right
Cause was prompted by a “flurry” of calls from friends and
business leaders who heard the party was interested in him.  “When it first emerged that I was being considered for
this position, to be frank, I was absolutely unprepared and
thought it was a joke,” Prokhorov said. Then, he said, friends
reminded him of his favorite saying: “Who if not us?”  Consolidating Forces  The billionaire owns stakes in aluminum producer United Co.
Rusal, gold miner OAO Polyus Gold, investment bank  Renaissance
Capital  and the RBC television channel.  Olga Kryshtanovskaya , a sociologist who studies Russia’s
elites and is a member of United Russia, said Prokhorov’s
announcement is a preparatory move by business leaders and
officials in the Kremlin to build a strong right-leaning party
that may be headed by Medvedev in the future.  “It is necessary for someone to consolidate the right
forces so the party is capable of reaching the 7 percent
threshold and creating a fully fledged faction in the Duma,”
Kryshtanovskaya said by phone. “Only then would it be possible
to propose Medvedev to head this party.”  Prokhorov said his political program is based on his
experience as a banker, chief executive officer and member of
the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, or RSPP,
the nation’s big-business lobby. The former Norilsk Nickel CEO
took over that role at Polyus in December.  Trust of Electorate  “Current political structures have no personalities that
the right-minded electorate will trust,” Alexander Shokhin,
head of the Moscow-based RSPP, said by phone. “The current
system doesn’t allow for those 15 percent of the right-minded
electorate to be represented in the Duma.”  Unlike 2003, when billionaire  Mikhail Khodorkovsky  was
jailed while challenging Putin politically, Russia’s leadership
understands the need for alternative candidates and ideas and
it’s ready to concede 7 percent of the vote to a new party, said
Dmitry Oreshkin, an independent political analyst in Moscow.  “The power vertical that Putin built has come to a logical
end and is now becoming dangerous for the business
environment,” Oreshkin said.  Representatives for both Medvedev and Putin declined to
comment on Prokhorov’s political ambitions.  Prokhorov “won’t be able to promote any serious political
initiatives without contradicting Putinism,” said Boris Nemtsov, a Putin opponent who co-founded the Solidarity movement
and served as a first deputy prime minister under President
 Boris Yeltsin .  “Prokhorov is a talented guy, creative, with money and he
can think up something,” Nemtsov said by phone. “But as soon
as the party becomes successful it will become Putin’s enemy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  