-- 
Qaddafi Is ‘Effectively’ in Hiding as NATO Aircraft Attack Libyan Warships

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-05-21T14:33:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/qaddafi-is-effectively-in-hiding-as-nato-aircraft-attack-libyan-warships.html
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi , who is
“effectively” in hiding, has only limited ability to
communicate with his loyalist forces as a result of NATO’s air
campaign, an alliance spokesman said.  “We’ve increased the pressure by striking military command
and control centers,” Wing Commander Mike Bracken of the
British Royal Air Force said yesterday at the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization headquarters in Brussels. The attacks have
“limited Qaddafi’s ability to give orders to his forces. It has
also constrained his freedom of movement. Effectively, he’s gone
into hiding.”  A video of Qaddafi was shown May 19 on Libyan state TV. He
was wearing sunglasses as he watched television with another man
in a white, windowless room that may be in a bunker. The video
showed the current date displayed on the wall-mounted TV.  Along with uncertainty about Qaddafi’s location, there is a
question about the whereabouts of his family. Abdel Hafiz Ghoga,
vice president of the rebels’ National Transitional Council,
said in Benghazi May 19 that Qaddafi’s wife, daughters and
grandchildren had fled the country.  The U.S. has “no confirmation” of the rebels’ claim,
State Department spokesman Mark Toner said yesterday in
 Washington . U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  was
referring to news reports when she appeared to confirm Ghoga’s
account during an  interview  on CBS May 19, Toner said.  President  Barack Obama  said that Qaddafi no longer has
control of his country and that the Libyan leader will
“inevitably” leave power. “Now, time is working against
Qaddafi,” Obama said May 19 in a  speech  in Washington on the
Middle East and North Africa.  Oil Stable  The three-month fight between troops loyal to Qaddafi and
opponents of his four-decade rule has cut the country’s oil
exports and left rebels mostly in control in the east.  The unrest in Libya, holder of  Africa ’s largest oil
reserves, caused supplies from the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries to decline last month, the  International
Energy Agency  said on May 12.  Crude oil for June delivery rose $1.05 to close at $99.49 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The prices fell 16
cents this week and have risen 15 percent since the Libya
rebellion began February 17. The June contract expired at the
close of Nymex floor trading yesterday.  NATO has turned its firepower on Libya’s navy, hitting
eight warships after what Bracken called a change of tactics by
Qaddafi loyalists to mine the port of rebel-held Misrata and
target NATO forces by sea.  Maritime Assets  “We have seen a significant and highly concerning increase
in the activities of pro-Qaddafi maritime assets,” Bracken told
reporters after showing a video of a ship being struck. He said
NATO’s decision to attack the vessels came after “long and
careful deliberation.”  The strikes on Libyan naval ships took place in the ports
of Tripoli, Al Khums and Sirte. The  U.K. Defense Ministry  said
its jets hit two Libyan corvettes at Al Khums and a facility
constructing fast inflatable boats used by Qaddafi forces to lay
mines.  Bracken said alliance air strikes have helped halt the
regime’s progress on rebel-held territory in the east, stop
attacks on civilians in Misrata and constrain Qaddafi and regime
officials’ movements in Tripoli.  Civilians Threatened  While Bracken cited progress along Libya’s eastern coast
and in Misrata, he said Qaddafi’s forces still threaten
civilians in cities dotting the mountainous Berber highlands in
the west, forcing Libyans to flee over the border into  Tunisia .  “We hope for greater intervention to protect our people
and civilians,” Ghoga said. “As long as there is a threat to
civilians, strikes must be intensified against the military
machine” of the Libyan leader.  Libyan government spokesman Moussa Ibrahim told reporters
at a late-night news conference May 19 that, in a meeting
earlier this week with Russian leaders, an envoy offered to
withdraw regime fighters from cities as part of a peace deal, if
rebels do the same, the  Associated Press  reported from Tripoli.
NATO would also have to stop its strikes under such a deal, AP
said.  Navy Targeted  Rebel officials expressed doubt that Qaddafi is prepared to
pull his troops back into garrisons, allow humanitarian aid, and
permit political demonstrations while Libyans proceed with steps
to replace him.  “He is just buying time, trying to create divisions and
trying to make us look like we’re the ones who are warmongers,”
Jalal el-Gallal, a spokesman for the rebel’s National
Transitional Council, said in an interview in Benghazi.  Rebel forces repelled an attack on Misrata by Qaddafi
loyalists May 19, Fawzi Abd El-Ali, a member of the rebel
council for the city, said in a telephone interview. He said one
rebel died in the fighting as Qaddafi forces tried to enter the
city from its western gate.  In Benghazi, the rebels’ eastern stronghold, a few thousand
residents gathered outside the courthouse to attend an anti-
Qaddafi rally.  Gunmen manned rooftops and an effigy of Qaddafi with a rope
around the neck hung from a wooden pole. Some chanted “Raise
your head up high, you are free Libyans.”  Letter to Congress  “We are here to support our brothers in all the besieged
cities,” said Besheer El-Houni, 27, an accountant. “The number
one demand is for Qaddafi to leave and for him to be
prosecuted.”  President Obama urged congressional leaders to adopt a
resolution supporting U.S. military actions against  Libya .  In a letter to leaders of the House and Senate, Obama said
a pending resolution “would confirm that the Congress supports
the U.S. mission in Libya and that both branches are united in
their commitment to supporting the aspirations of the Libyan
people for political reform and self-government.”  Four French citizens who had been held in Benghazi, Libya,
since May 11 were freed,  France ’s Foreign Affairs Ministry said
in an e-mailed statement today. France was informed by Libyan
authorities of the decision to free the four, and the French
citizens were transferred to  Egypt  today, the ministry said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Benghazi at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  