-- 
Treasury Two-Year Notes Advance for Sixth Week as Fed Rate Outlook Eases

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-05-21T04:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/treasury-two-year-notes-advance-for-sixth-week-on-fed-rate-view.html
Treasury two-year notes rose for a
sixth week in the longest winning streak since August as
manufacturing and housing weakness reinforced bets that the
 Federal Reserve  will keep borrowing costs low.  Benchmark 10-year securities advanced as New York Fed
President  William Dudley  said the central bank is falling short
of its goals because of the modest pace of the recovery, with
unemployment too high and inflation likely to ease. The
government will sell $35 billion of two-year notes, the same
amount of five-year notes and $29 billion of seven-year notes
next week in three daily consecutive sales starting May 24.  “The economic weakness continues to catch the market
offside,” said Thomas di Galoma, managing director of U.S.
government securities at Oppenheimer & Co. “ Quantitative
easing hasn’t spurred as much economic activity as people had
hoped, so the Fed will stay accommodative until things turn
around.”  Two-year note yields dropped two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 0.52 percent in New York, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the 0.625 percent
security maturing in April 2013 increased 1/32, or 31 cents per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 7/32.  Yields on 10-year notes fell two basis points to 3.15
percent after touching 3.09 percent on May 18, the lowest level
since Dec 7. The yields dropped that day to within a basis point
of the 200-day moving average, then 3.08 percent.  U.S. bill rates were at almost record lows as government
authorities curtailed short-term debt issuance to conserve
borrowing capacity, with the U.S. reaching its federal borrowing
threshold of $14.3 trillion.  U.S. Debt Limit  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said this week that
he has acted to stave off the federal debt limit until Aug. 2,
using accounting measures that involve two retirement funds.  Six-month rates were at 0.09 percent, compared with the
record low 0.0305 percent set May 6. Three-month bill rates were
at 0.04 percent, almost the lowest level since they went
negative during the financial crisis.  U.S. government notes advanced as reports showed
manufacturing in the Philadelphia area expanded at the slowest
pace in seven months and sales of existing homes in the U.S.
unexpectedly fell.  The Philadelphia Fed’s factory index slid this month to
3.9, the lowest level since October, from 18.5 in April.
Readings greater than zero signal expansion. Existing home sales
fell 0.8 percent last month after a 3.5 percent increase in
March, the National Association of Realtors reported. The median
forecast of 75 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 2
percent increase.  ‘Headwinds to Growth’  “The economic data continue to underwhelm,” said Scott Graham, head of government bond trading at Bank of Montreal’s
BMO Capital Markets unit in  Chicago . “People are looking at the
Fed, and the headwinds to growth continue to argue for them
keeping rates lower for a longer period. We are at this level
for a reason.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told reporters after the
central bank’s April policy meeting that he was unsure when
stimulus would end after a $600 billion program of debt buying
stops in June. The central bank bought $18.52 billion of nominal
Treasuries and inflation-index debt during the week to support
the economy.  Interest-rate futures indicated yesterday a 30 percent
chance that the central bank will increase the target lending
rate at its March 2012 meeting, compared with 50 percent odds a
month ago. The target rate for overnight lending between banks
has stayed at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Dudley’s View  The central bank has “a considerable way to go” before it
meets its dual mandate of full employment and price stability,
Dudley said on May 19 in New Paltz,  New York .  Yields on 10-year Greek debt surged yesterday as much as
59 basis points to a record 16.59 percent. The 10-year bund
yield touched 3.05 percent, the lowest level since January.  Greece ’s credit rating was cut three levels by  Fitch
Ratings , which said that even a voluntary restructuring of the
country’s debt being considered by European Union policy makers
would be considered a default. Fitch lowered its rating to B+,
four levels below investment grade, from BB+ and said that the
country may face a further reduction in its creditworthiness.  Spain ’s Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s
Socialists were headed for defeat in elections on May 22 after a
week of protests over his economic policies, polls show. The
Bundesbank said in a monthly bulletin that  Germany ’s economy
will probably lose some growth momentum over the coming months
after an “explosive” start to the year.  “Keeping an underlying bid in the market is the
combination of global sovereign risk out of  Europe , the Fed that
is still buying, and a clearer picture of the economy that shows
it is beginning to stumble,” said Larry Milstein, managing
director of government and agency debt trading in New York at
R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  