-- 
Saudi Shares Rise to Four-Month High as Crude Gains, Led by Tasnee, Savola

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-05-21T13:50:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/saudi-shares-climb-for-third-day-on-advancing-oil-sabic-savola-rise.html
Petrochemical and agriculture
companies led Saudi Arabian shares to a four-month high, after
oil prices advanced on a report U.S. fuel consumption increased
in April.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest
petrochemicals maker, and Savola Azizia United Co. paced the
gains.  National Industrialization Co. (NIC)  rose to its highest price
in more than three years.  The 146-member  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  jumped 0.7 percent
to 6,731.24, the measure’s highest level since Jan. 17, at the
3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh. Four shares rose for every stock that
dropped and the index gained for a third day.  “Small-cap stocks are lifting the market as investors
lock-in intraday movements,” said Asim Bukhtiar, an equity
analyst at Riyad Capital. “Crude rose to $100 over the weekend
on increased demand for fuel and a drop in inventory levels.”  Crude oil for June delivery gained 1.1 percent to settle at
$99.49 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday
after the American Petroleum Institute reported that fuel
consumption increased in April as economic growth bolstered
demand for diesel by truckers. Brent crude futures in London
rose to $112.39 a barrel. Saudi Arabia holds one-fifth of the
world’s proven oil reserves.  Sabic gained 0.7 percent to 107.75 riyals, the highest
price in a week. National Industrialization gained 4.9 percent
to 40.70 riyals, its highest closing price since Jan. 15, 2008.
 Savola (SAVOLA)  rose 1.5 percent to 27.50 riyals. The Saudi Arabian food
producer was given a “neutral” rating at HSBC Holdings Plc.  MedGulf Rated A-  Mediterranean & Gulf Insurance & Reinsurance Co. (MEDGULF)  gained 1.7
percent, the largest gain in ten days, to 29.90 riyals after the
insurance company known as MedGulf was rated A- by Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services.  “This may be a short-lived gain as near-term forecasts are
generally bearish,” said Bukhtiar. “Consumer spending in the
U.S. appears weak, which can temper optimism on recent tech
listings.” The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 0.7 percent,
the  S&P 500  tumbled 0.8 percent and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
weakened 0.1 percent yesterday.  “The Saudi market is in a consolidation phase with a lack
of clarity from international markets,” said Fuad Aghabi,
investment director at Ajeej Capital in Riyadh.  Saudi Arabia ’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  