-- 
Shanghai Gold Exchange Planning to Start ETFs, Chairman Wang Zhe Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-21T05:02:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/shanghai-planning-gold-exchange-traded-funds-to-tap-rising-demand-in-china.html
The  Shanghai Gold Exchange  is
planning to start exchange-traded funds, tapping rising demand
in  China , the biggest investment market for the precious metal.  “There are some complexities, as the central bank is in
charge of gold management, while we still need to go through the
procedures for launching new exchange products,” Wang Zhe,
chairman of the bourse, said at a Shanghai forum. There is no
timetable and the exchange is working with regulators on the
plan, Wang said. China is the world’s largest gold producer and
second-largest in overall consumption.  Gold investment demand by China more than doubled in the
first quarter, overtaking India to become the largest market for
gold coins and bars, the World Gold Council said May 19. Bullion
jumped to a record $1,577.57 an ounce this month as investors
sought a store of value amid rising inflation and concerns about
the strength of the global recovery.  China doesn’t have gold ETFs and investors usually choose
to buy physical gold, or invest through contracts traded on the
Shanghai Gold Exchange, the Shanghai Futures Exchange or through
banks. Lion Fund Management Co. in January said it raised more
than 3.2 billion yuan ($483 million) for China’s first gold fund
to be invested in overseas exchange-traded products.  Demand Jumps  Investment demand in China jumped 123 percent to 90.9
metric tons in the first three months. Total consumption
including jewelry gained 47 percent from a year ago to 233.8
tons, the council said. That still lags behind  India ’s 291.8
tons. China demand may double before 2020, the council said.  Global investment increased 26 percent to 310.5 tons in the
quarter. While bar and coin purchases climbed 52 percent to
366.4 tons, holdings in exchange-traded products backed by the
metal declined. ETP assets dropped 69.9 tons from December
through March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, after
reaching a record 2,114.6 tons.  Billionaire investor  George Soros  sold 99 percent of his
bullion-backed SPDR Gold Trust assets and all 5 million shares
in the iShares Gold Trust in the first quarter, a government
filing showed this week.  John Paulson , the biggest investor in
the SPDR Gold Trust, maintained his positions.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  