-- 
Democratic Alliance Gains Ground on ANC in South African Local Elections

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-05-22T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/south-african-opposition-party-gains-ground-against-anc-in-municipal-vote.html
South Africa’s ruling  African
National Congress  lost support in May 18 municipal elections as
the main opposition won over disgruntled ANC voters at the
expense of smaller rivals.  The ANC’s share of the vote dropped to 62 percent from 65.9
percent in the national election in 2009, according to results
published by the  Independent Electoral Commission  in  Pretoria 
yesterday. The Democratic Alliance won 23.9 percent of the vote,
up from 16.6 percent.  The DA has consolidated its position as the only challenger
to the 17-year dominance of the ANC, taking advantage of voters’
concerns that the ruling party isn’t doing enough to create jobs
and provide water, sanitation and other services to many of the
country’s 2,700 shanty towns. South Africa’s jobless rate of 25
percent is the highest of 61 countries tracked by Bloomberg.  “The DA’s strategy is, over time, winning people over,”
said Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura International
Plc in  London . “It is slowly chipping away at the ANC’s
control.”  None of the other 119 parties that contested the poll
received more than 4 percent of the vote. The  Congress of the
People , formed in 2008 by a group of ANC dissidents, saw its
share plummet to 2.2 percent from 7.4 percent in 2009, while
support for the Inkatha Freedom Party slid to 3.6 percent from
4.6 percent.  Turnout 57.6%  The results showed the ANC won 62.9 percent of the
proportional representation vote, while the DA won 24 percent.
Of the 278 municipalities, the ANC won outright control of 198,
the DA 18 and Inkatha Freedom Party 5, the commission said.  Voter turnout was 57.6 percent, compared to the
commission’s expectations of 40 percent.  “The people identified service delivery as an issue,”
President  Jacob Zuma  said in a speech in Pretoria after the
results were published. “It came down to bread and butter
issues.” The “South African people, especially the poor and
the workers, must be the real winners of the 2011 local
government elections. There must be visible change in their
 living conditions .”  The DA, traditionally backed by white and mixed-race
voters, grew its support in all six main cities, though failed
to win control of any of them, except  Cape Town , which it has
governed since 2006 in a coalition with the Independent
Democrats.  DA Retains Cape Town  The Independent Democrats, which won 10.8 percent in Cape
Town in 2006, agreed to merge with the DA before this year’s
election.  “We are succeeding beyond our own expectations,” DA
leader  Helen Zille , 60, told reporters in Pretoria yesterday.
“This election creates a strong platform for growth in 2014,”
when the country next holds a national election.  The ANC’s share of the vote dropped in each of the
country’s nine provinces, except in Zuma’s home, KwaZulu-Natal.
While the ANC kept control of five of the six biggest cities,
its share of the vote in  Port Elizabeth  dropped by 15 percentage
points to 52 percent, and slid in Johannesburg to 59 percent
from 62 percent.  “The ANC has now experienced two successive elections,
2009 and this week’s, in which they have slipped in terms of
their support,” said Susan Booysen, a politics professor at the
Johannesburg-based University of Witwatersrand. “There is a
slight narrowing of the gap between what is emerging as the two
dominant parties.”  ‘Scored a Victory’  The ANC swept to power under  Nelson Mandela  in 1994, and
has won every election since then with more than 60 percent of
the vote, drawing support from the black majority because of the
leading role it played in ending all-white rule.  The election “has once again demonstrated the power of the
ANC,” Zuma, 69, told thousands of singing and cheering
supporters who celebrated the party’s victory outside its
headquarters in downtown Johannesburg on May 20. “We have
scored a victory that has been forecast by others as a loss.
They were saying the ANC is not going to make it.”  The ruling party plans to speed up delivery of services to
address demands from angry township residents, Jeff Radebe, the
ANC’s head of policy, said in an interview in Pretoria on May
20.  South Africa  had a record 111 protests against a lack of
basic services such as water and housing last year, according to
Johannesburg-based Municipal IQ, an independent local government
research group.  “The ANC has received a resounding endorsement from our
people,” said  Zwelinzima Vavi , general secretary of the
Congress of South African Trade Unions, the country’s biggest
labor federation of 2 million workers. “That endorsement is not
unconditional. Lots of concerns have been expressed.”  The rand has gained 0.6 percent against the dollar since
the elections were held . The benchmark FTSE/JSE Africa All
Share Index has slid 0.2 percent in the same period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Johannesburg at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  