-- 
Spaniards Defy Ban in Seventh Day of Protest Ahead of Tomorrow’s Elections

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-05-21T09:57:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/spaniards-defy-ban-in-seventh-day-of-protest-ahead-of-tomorrow-s-elections.html
Spaniards defied a ban on
demonstrations to protest for the seventh day against bank
bailouts, unemployment and the political system a day before
regional elections.  Organizers estimated that 55,000 people gathered in
Madrid’s Plaza del Sol last night, defying a rule against
political activity on the so-called day of reflection that
election authorities impose the day before voters go to the
polls. The sit-in in the central square continued today with no
police present in the square as of 10 a.m.  The emergence of the make-shift camp in Sol has been fueled
by the use of  Twitter , mirroring the use of social media that
stoked protests in Tunisia and  Egypt , with demonstrators calling
for changes to  Spain ’s electoral system to make it more
representative and less corrupt. The Socialist government,
headed for defeat in tomorrow’s elections, has angered voters
with spending cuts and measures to support banks, while 45
percent of young people are unemployed.  “We’ve all come to the same conclusion, that the situation
is not sustainable,” said Raquel Almendros, a journalism
student who is one of the movement’s spokeswomen. The
revolutions in North Africa “confirmed to us what is
possible,” she said in Sol today.  Thirteen regions accounting for 60 percent of the economy
and more than 8,000 municipalities hold elections on May 22.
Zapatero’s Socialists will be defeated in most regions,
including traditional strongholds, and may lose the city of
Barcelona for the first time in three decades, according to a
poll by the Center for Sociological Research on May 5.  Pitched Tents  Support for the Socialists has flagged as Zapatero turned
his back on traditional allies to push through wage cuts and
changes to labor and pension rules to fight the sovereign-debt
crisis.  Protesters pitched tents in Sol on May 15 and have stayed
since then. They are calling for changes to the 30-year-old
electoral system to reduce the dominance of the two main parties
and stop politicians facing corruption charges from running for
office. Demonstrators oppose spending cuts and level of youth
unemployment that the  International Monetary Fund  has said
raises the “specter of a lost generation,” and want to be able
to vote for lawmakers directly rather than for party lists.  “No work, no work, no future, no fear,” read one of the
posters plastered at the metro station in Sol, one of Madrid’s
best-known landmarks. “Revolution,” read one of the signs,
written in Arabic.  Balance of Rights  Deputy Prime Minister Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba declined to
say yesterday whether authorities will break up the protests,
telling reporters that “police know perfectly well how to do
their job and to balance the different rights that are in
play.”  The movement says it isn’t calling on people to vote for
any particular party, and the right to demonstrate prevails over
the obligations of the so-called day of reflection, according to
a statement hanging up in the square.  The camp is divided into segments, including a legal
department, a medical tent and a communication stand, while
supporters hold assembly meetings to discuss ideas and
objectives.  Even as the ruling Socialist party’s response to the
movement has been mixed, Defense Minister Carme Chacon, a
possible successor to Zapatero when he stands down next year,
said on May 18 that she was “listening” to the protesters and
some of their objectives are “not only reasonable but
possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  