-- 
Syrian Forces Kill Mourners at Funeral; Yemen’s Saleh Agrees to Exit Plan

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-05-22T12:10:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/syrian-forces-kill-mourners-at-funeral-yemen-s-saleh-agrees-to-exit-plan.html
Syrian forces killed 12 people in a
funeral procession for anti-government activists, raising the
two-day civilian death toll to at least 62, activists said.  The mourners were killed yesterday during the burial
ceremony in Homs of 11 people killed the day before by security
forces in the central city, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab
Organization for Human Rights said. At least one man was also
killed by government forces during overnight raids on
neighborhoods in the Damascus suburb of Sebqa, he said in a
telephone interview.  The  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  also confirmed the
12 casualties in Homs, and said 50 civilians and 6 members of
the army and security forces were also killed in the unrest
after Friday weekly prayers. It didn’t mention the death in
Sebqa. A total of 854 civilians and 140 army and security forces
have been killed in about two months of protests and government
repression in  Syria , it said on its website.  President  Barack Obama  is seeking to encourage pro-
democracy movements inspired by those that ousted longtime
leaders in Tunisia and Egypt to create broader, regional
changes, including a peace deal between  Israel  and the
Palestinians. In a May 19 speech, Obama urged an end to
crackdowns on protesters and told Syrian President Bashar al- Assad to lead a peaceful transition to democracy or “get out of
the way.”  ‘Window of Opportunity’  Amre Moussa, secretary general of the  Arab League , said
Assad, whose family has ruled the country for 40 years, could
remain in power if he “accelerates the pace toward reform.”  The Syrian uprising drew initial pledges of political and
economic changes from Assad, who lifted an emergency law in
place since 1963 and named a new government. He hasn’t repeated
the assurances in recent weeks as authorities have stepped up
their assaults.  “It is possible, but for a very short window of
opportunity,” Moussa, a former foreign minister of  Egypt , said
on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS,” scheduled to air today.  Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh said that he has
accepted a Gulf Cooperation Council plan for a transition of
power as he sought to end the political turmoil in the country.  Signing the GCC-backed plan was a “coup on constitutional
legitimacy” and the result of “pressure” from other nations,
Saleh said during a televised speech at a military ceremony
yesterday. Al-Qaeda militants will also strengthen their control
in the country after his departure, Saleh said in the speech.  Yemeni Unrest  Political unrest in Yemen continued after Saleh previously
refused to sign the GCC-sponsored accord, which calls for his
departure and elections two months later. The GCC is made up of
 Saudi Arabia , Qatar, Bahrain, Oman, the  United Arab Emirates  and
 Kuwait .  Protesters in Bahrain have also faced government
crackdowns. In Libya, rebels are engaged in a civil war with
forces loyal to leader Muammar Qaddafi and Moussa said he
doubted Qaddafi had the same chance as Assad.  “After all this bloodshed and all this confrontation, I
don’t think Libya can get back to the status quo as if nothing
happened,” Moussa said.  The EU’s foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  is visiting
the rebel stronghold of Benghazi today where she will open up an
office, the Libyan rebels’ National Transitional Council said in
a statement yesterday.  Qaddafi, who is “effectively” in hiding, has only limited
ability to communicate with his loyalist forces as a result of
NATO’s air campaign, an alliance spokesman said May 20.  Allied Raids  NATO carried out raids during the night that targeted
Qaddafi’s residence and the port in the capital, Tripoli,  Agence
France-Presse  reported today, citing an unidentified Libyan
official.  Crude oil for June delivery rose $1.05 to close at $99.49 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  May 20.  Oil prices 
fell 16 cents this week and have risen 15 percent since the
 Libya  rebellion began February 17.  Elsewhere, Egypt is struggling to prevent the largely
peaceful revolution that ousted President Hosni Mubarak from
devolving into chaos, said Mohamed ElBaradei, the former
director of the International Atomic Energy Agency and candidate
for the Egyptian presidency along with Moussa.  “Right now, socially, we are disintegrating,” said
ElBaradei, who was also interviewed on the “Fareed Zakaria
GPS” program. “Economically we are not in the best state.
Politically, it’s -- it’s like a black hole. We do now know
where we are heading.”  He urged international investment as the economy struggles
to overcome inflation, a  budget deficit  and a 60 percent drop in
tourism.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in  Washington  at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 