-- 
U.K. Pound Falls Versus Euro as Traders Pare Back BOE Rate Bets

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-05-21T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/u-k-pound-falls-versus-euro-as-traders-pare-back-boe-rate-bets.html
The British pound weakened for the
first time in three weeks against the euro as traders scaled
back bets on when the  Bank of England  will raise  interest rates .  The U.K. currency was little changed against the dollar.
The pound declined 0.5 percent against the euro and 0.5 percent
against the dollar on May 18 as minutes from the Bank of
England’s May 5 meeting showed the majority of policy makers
warned against raising borrowing costs and a report revealed
unemployment claims rose.  “The pound has been on a weakening bias and the main
driver was the Bank of England minutes, which showed policy
makers moving more toward a dovish tilt,” said  Lee Hardman , a
currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in
London. “If the economic data continues to be weak then that
could continue and argue in favor of delayed rate hikes.”  The pound declined 0.3 percent against the euro in the week
as of 4:33 p.m. in  London  yesterday, and traded at $1.6215, from
$1.6197 on May 13.  At the Bank of England’s May meeting, the Monetary Policy
Committee voted 6-3 to hold interest rates at 0.5 percent as
members said an increase “could adversely affect  consumer
confidence ,” minutes of the meeting revealed this week. U.K.
unemployment claims rose in April at the fastest pace since
January 2010, according to a separate report.  Short-sterling futures advanced during the week, as traders
pushed back expectations for higher borrowing costs from the
Bank of England. The implied yield on the contract expiring in
March 2012 fell three basis points in the week to 1.21 percent.  Money Markets  Money markets now price in a 25 basis-point increase in the
key rate in February, according to sterling overnight interbank
average forwards, Tullett Prebon Plc data show. As recently as
February investors were betting the rate would be lifted this
month. The ECB raised borrowing costs by 25 basis points in
April and will increase them by a further 50 basis points by the
end of the year, according to a Bloomberg News economist survey.  Britain’s budget deficit narrowed in April, a report
released next week is forecast to show. Net borrowing was 6.5
billion pounds ($10.4 billion) down from 18.6 billion pounds in
March, according to the median of 12 economist forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The pound appreciated against the euro yesterday as
 Greece ’s credit rating was cut three levels by  Fitch Ratings ,
sapping demand for the European shared currency.  Britain’s currency has lost 0.1 percent this year, compared
with a 2.1 percent gain by the euro, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track the
performance of a basket of 10 currencies.  Bonds rose in the week, pushing the yield on the 10-year
gilt down two basis points to 3.35 percent. Two-year note yields
were one basis point lower at 0.99 percent.  Gilts have handed investors a gain of 1.4 percent this
year, according to indexes compiled by the European Federation
of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. German bunds
handed investors a loss of 0.8 percent, while  U.S. Treasuries 
gained 2 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 