-- 
U.S. Charges Connecticut Man With Making and Selling Homemade Explosives

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-05-21T00:06:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/u-s-charges-connecticut-man-with-making-and-selling-homemade-explosives.html
A Bridgeport,  Connecticut , man was
charged by U.S. prosecutors in New York with making and selling
homemade explosives after he was arrested yesterday with eight
cylindrical bombs in his car.  Nicholas Lahines was ordered held without bail after he
appeared today before U.S. Magistrate Judge Henry Pitman in
Manhattan. He was charged with five counts including
manufacturing, transporting and selling explosives.  “It’s difficult to imagine a set of circumstances that
represent a greater danger to the community,” Pitman said in
ordering the defendant held.  Lahines was arrested by federal agents with the Joint
Terrorism Task Force yesterday at a parking lot in the New York
borough of the Bronx, prosecutors said. Police found eight
cardboard cylindrical objects, which Lahines said were homemade
explosives.  After being advised of his rights, Lahines admitted that he
had transported the cylinders to the Bronx lot and sold them to
an unidentified confidential source who was working with the
U.S. for $3,200, prosecutors said. He told authorities the tubes
contained gunpowder, prosecutors in the office of  Manhattan  U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara said in court papers.  Chemicals Found  Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorney Sean Buckley said at
today’s detention hearing for Lahines that agents searched
Lahines’s home and found explosive “materials strewn about the
apartment,” including the kitchen and living and laundry rooms.
A highly explosive chemical Buckley identified as “nitro
methane” was found in the apartment.  When agents moved a small jar containing a white powdery
residue, it detonated and injured a law enforcement officer,
prosecutors said.  Peggy Cross, a federal defender appointed to represent
Lahines, told Pitman that pretrial services had recommended that
he be released to his mother’s home in Bridgeport. She declined
to comment after the hearing.  The case U.S. v. Nicholas Lahines, 11-mag-01362, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  