-- 
U.S. Stocks Fall a Third Week on Europe Concern, Forecast Cuts

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-05-21T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/u-s-stocks-fall-a-third-week-on-europe-concern-forecast-cuts.html
U.S. stocks declined for a third
straight week, the longest slump since August, as investors grew
more concerned that Greece will default on its debt and reduced
earnings forecasts undermined confidence in the economy.  Staples Inc. (SPLS)  and  Gap Inc. (GPS)  led losses in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index after cutting their profit projections, while
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  plunged 11 percent as it reduced its sales
forecast. NYSE Euronext sank 13 percent after  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. (NDAQ)  said it was dropping a takeover bid for the operator of the
New York Stock Exchange.  Newfield Exploration Co. (NFX)  and  El Paso
Corp. (EP)  led energy stocks to the biggest gain among 10 groups.  The S&P 500 lost 0.3 percent to 1,333.27 this week. The
index has fallen every week in May after reaching an almost
three-year high at the end of April. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  fell 83.71 points, or 0.7 percent, to 12,512.04.  “People are realizing that not only the U.S. but the
global economy still faces some issues,” said  Malcolm Polley ,
who oversees $1 billion as chief investment officer at Stewart
Capital in Indiana, Pennsylvania. “You’ve still got problems
particularly in Greece that aren’t going to go away soon. The
market had gotten a little ahead of itself.”  While the  S&P 500  is up 6 percent so far in 2011, the
benchmark index for U.S. equities has lost 2.2 percent this
month. The S&P 500 has only fallen one month so far this year,
slipping 0.1 percent in March amid concern that Japan’s
earthquake and tsunami would curb global demand.  Staples Plunges  Staples slipped the most in the S&P 500, losing 19 percent
$16.37. The office-supply retailer forecast 2011 earnings
wouldn’t exceed analysts’ average estimate, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Gap, the largest U.S. apparel chain, dropped 17 percent to
$19.22 and had the worst daily decline in almost a decade
yesterday. The company cut its full-year profit forecast by 22
percent as costs to make clothes rose faster than expected.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  plunged as smaller competitors Nasdaq OMX and
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  withdrew their bid for the New
York-based company after the U.S. Department of Justice
threatened a lawsuit. The shares lost 13 percent to $35.76.  S&P 500 technology companies slid the most among 10 groups
this week, dropping 1.5 percent for the third straight week of
losses. Hewlett-Packard, the biggest personal-computer maker,
fell the most among technology shares after it cut a billion
dollars from its sales forecast for 2011 and missed analysts’
profit projections. The shares slid 11 percent to $35.98.  Chip-Share Downgrade  KLA-Tencor Corp. (KLAC)  lost 7.3 percent to $41.20. The
semiconductor company, along with  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Applied
Materials Inc. (AMAT) , was downgraded by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
which cited increased competition from tablet computers and
excess supply.  Energy shares in the S&P 500 rose 0.9 percent as a group
this week, after losing 8.3 percent in the first two weeks of
May. Oil climbed above $100 a barrel on May 18 after an Energy
Department report showed an unexpected drop in U.S. inventories
as refineries bolstered operating rates and imports declined.  Crude gained again on May 20 after the American Petroleum
Institute said fuel consumption increased in April.  Newfield Exploration, an oil and gas producer which
operates in the Gulf of Mexico, onshore U.S., Malaysia and
China, advanced 6.9 percent. El Paso, which operates natural-gas
pipelines, rose 6.4 percent.  Salesforce Rallies  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , the largest supplier of customer-
management software, advanced 8.7 percent to $146.61 for the
best weekly gain since November. The company, which sells cloud-
computing applications that companies rent over the Web rather
than install on their computers, forecast fiscal second-quarter
sales and profit that topped estimates as the company added
5,400 customers in last quarter.  The S&P 500 started the week lower on May 16 as concern
about Europe’s debt crisis was heightened after Greece sought
additional bailout funds. European finance chiefs endorsed a 78
billion-euro ($111 billion) bailout for Portugal. Authorities
stepped up the pressure on Greece to sell assets and deepen
spending cuts to win an increase of its 110 billion-euro aid
package and more time to repay the loans.  “Some degree of caution might be in order in the near-
term, while we wait for greater clarity on a series of risks in
the weeks ahead,” said David Joy, the Boston-based chief market
strategist at Ameriprise Financial Inc., which oversees $693
billion in assets. “Recent evidence suggests a bit of softness
in the  U.S. economy .”  Economic Signals  While a government report showed that fewer Americans than
estimated filed applications for unemployment benefits during
the previous week, other data showed manufacturing in the New
York and Philadelphia regions expanded at a slower-than-forecast
pace. Housing starts and existing home sales also unexpectedly
decreased.  The S&P 500 was poised to gain for the week after the
 Federal Reserve  signaled continued low  interest rates  on May 18.
Talks about an exit strategy from the record stimulus measures
don’t mean monetary tightening “would necessarily begin soon,”
according to the Fed’s April policy meeting records, released
last week. Gap’s forecast and Fitch’s downgrade of  Greece 
brought the index lower for the week yesterday.  The S&P 500 has climbed 27 percent since Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled in August that he would buy more bonds to
stimulate the economy. The Fed’s second program of quantitative
easing, or QE2, which was officially announced in November, ends
in June.  Joy said the approaching end of the Fed’s quantitative
easing “raises uncertainty” about its role in the S&P 500’s
direction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  