-- 
North, South Sudanese Clash in Oil Town of Abyei During UN Mission's Visit

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n ,   M a t t   R i c h m o n d   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-05-22T15:36:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/un-security-council-arrives-in-sudan-as-north-seizes-diputed-town-of-abyei.html
Clashes continued in  Sudan ’s disputed
region of Abyei after the main town was taken over by the
northern Sudanese Armed Forces, the  United Nations peacekeeping
mission  in Sudan said.  “This morning fighting was ongoing,” Kouider Zerrouk, a
spokesman for the UN mission, said by telephone from Khartoum,
the Sudanese capital. The violence comes as a UN Security
Council delegation arrived for a three-day visit to the country.  The status of Abyei, a border region claimed by both
Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir’s government in Khartoum and
authorities in Southern Sudan, is one of the most contentious
issues in the lead-up to Southern Sudan’s scheduled independence
on July 9. North and south had agreed to withdraw “all
unauthorized forces” from the region by May 17 after clashes
this month killed 14 people.  The Sudanese government said it gained military control
over the town of Abyei last night in self-defense after accusing
 Southern Sudan ’s army of attacking its troops while they were
withdrawing from the town with a UN convoy on May 19. The UN,
which was leading the convoy, said the identity of the attackers
was unknown.  The  United States  condemned the “disproportionate and
irresponsible” response by the Sudanese Armed Forces, calling
the latest actions “blatant violations” of the U.S.-brokered
2005  peace agreement  that ended a two-decade civil war between
north and south.  “The United States calls on the SAF to immediately cease
all offensive operations in Abyei and withdraw its forces from
Abyei,” the White House said in an e-mailed statement late
yesterday in  Washington .  Contesting Claims  The Southern Sudanese army is trying “to enforce its
presence in Abyei and this is not acceptable,” Amin Hassan
Omar, Sudanese minister of state for presidential affairs, told
reporters today in Khartoum.  A small group of Southern army troops in Abyei fought four
battles yesterday and were overpowered by the Sudanese army,
Philip Aguer, Southern Sudanese army spokesman told reporters
today in Juba, the regional capital of Southern Sudan. The
remaining troops withdrew from Abyei yesterday evening, he said.  “It is the duty of the  Security Council  to see that the
Sudan Armed Forces are out of Abyei,” Barnaba Marial Benjamin,
Southern Sudan’s minister of information, told reporters today
in Juba. The Southern Sudanese army will not retaliate, he said.  UN Envoys  A dozen UN Security Council envoys, who had planned to
visit Abyei during their visit to the country, were told by the
peacekeeping mission that the Sudanese army had entered Abyei
town after repeated bombing in surrounding villages, according
to officials present at the meeting who spoke on condition of
anonymity.  A mortar shell was also dropped in a UN compound, forcing
staff to seek refuge in bunkers, according to the officials. The
UN Mission in Sudan said May 20 it was “deeply concerned over
the troop build-up and reported fighting, including the use of
heavy artillery and bombing in the Abyei area.”  Regional Rivalry  Abyei is contested between the region’s Ngok Dinka people,
who consider themselves southerners, and Misseriya nomads who
herd their cattle south in the dry season and are supported by
al-Bashir’s government.  Abyei was scheduled to vote in January on whether to join
the south or remain a special administrative region in the
north. The referendum was postponed indefinitely because of
disagreements over who was eligible to vote. Tensions over the
region have escalated since fighting in January killed at least
70 people, according to Southern Sudan’s army.  Al-Bashir’s  National Congress Party  may not recognize
Southern Sudan’s independence if its constitution claims the
disputed region as part of the south, the state-run SMC news
agency said on April 28, citing senior NCP official Al-Derdiri
Mohamed Ahmed.  Abyei produces less than 2,500 barrels of oil a day,
according to Sudan’s Oil Ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Khartoum at  fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Richmond in Juba via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 