-- 
Webber Ends Vettel’s Run of Five Straight F-1 Pole Positions

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-05-21T14:14:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/webber-ends-vettel-s-run-of-five-straight-f-1-pole-positions.html
Mark Webber  took pole position for
tomorrow’s Spanish Grand Prix, depriving Red Bull teammate
Sebastian Vettel of his sixth straight start from the front
of the Formula One grid.  Webber lapped the 2.89-mile Circuit de Catalunya in
Montmelo, near Barcelona, 0.2 seconds faster than defending
champion Vettel.  Lewis Hamilton  of McLaren was third, 0.78
seconds further back.  “It was a good battle and today was my day,” Webber told
reporters.  Ferrari’s  Fernando Alonso  qualified in fourth place, 0.003
seconds behind Hamilton.  Jenson Button  of McLaren was fifth and
Lotus-Renault’s Vitaly Petrov sixth.  Vettel leads the championship with 93 points after four of
up to 20 races. Hamilton is second with 59 points, with Webber
four points further back in third.  Webber posted a time of 1 minute, 20.98 seconds on the
third and final qualifying lap at an average speed of 128.6
miles-per-hour (206.9 kilometers-per-hour).  The Australian was the 10th straight driver to win the race
from pole position last year. Tomorrow it will be more difficult
to prevail from the front because of rule changes introduced for
this season, he said.  “It’s a different  Barcelona  Grand Prix this year,” Webber
said.  The series brought in a moveable rear wing to aid
overtaking and the so-called KERS system that gives a power
boost through energy recouped from braking. Pirelli & C. SpA
tires that degrade more quickly also require drivers to make
more pit stops.  Vettel said he had “a few problems” with his final
qualifying lap and didn’t use the KERS system, although it
should be available tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff at the Circuit de Catalunya in Montmelo, Spain
at   aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  