-- 
TMX Group Says Price Isn’t Everything in Rejecting Unsolicited Maple Offer

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-05-21T04:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/tmx-group-says-price-isn-t-everything-in-rejecting-maple-offer.html
TMX Group Inc. (X)  said just because a
group of Canadian banks and pension funds is offering more to
acquire it than  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , it doesn’t make
their proposal superior.  The Toronto Stock Exchange owner rejected an unsolicited
bid from Maple Group Acquisition Corp. yesterday, affirming its
friendly agreement with the LSE parent.  Maple’s plan “is a different proposal in that it does
require a change of control as opposed to our current merger
agreement with LSE Group, which is a combination of the holding
company whereby our shareholders continue to share in the growth
of the company,” Thomas Kloet said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  The C$3.6 billion ($3.7 billion) proposal from Maple, a
group of four Canadian banks and five pension funds, would also
result in too much debt, TMX said in a statement. The company
estimated an acquisition would boost its debt to 2.9 times 12-
month earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, from 1.1 now.  The leverage “generates much, if not all, of the earnings
accretion referenced in the Maple proposal and could constrain
TMX Group’s ability to execute and implement strategic
opportunities,” TMX said in the statement.  Luc Bertrand, vice chairman of  National Bank of Canada (NA)  and
a spokesman for Maple Group, said, “we are disappointed the TMX
board has decided not to engage in discussions with respect to
our clearly superior proposal.”  The group will “determine” its next steps, according to a
statement yesterday.  Exchange Acquisitions  LSE’s bid for TMX was part of about $30 billion in takeover
offers for exchanges globally in less than six months, as
bourses try to cut costs and generate more revenue from trading
in stocks, options and futures.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. dropped an unsolicited attempt to
buy NYSE Euronext, owner of the New York Stock Exchange, on May
16 after battling with Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse AG.  Maple offered on May 13 to buy TMX for cash and stock
valued at about C$48 a share. LSE’s Feb. 9 agreement would give
TMX shareholders 2.9963 LSE shares for each TMX share. LSE
investors would own 55 percent of the company, while TMX
shareholders would hold the rest.  In comparison, under the Maple plan, TMX shareholders would
get C$33.52 in cash plus 0.3016 of a Maple share for each TMX
share. The group, which was created for this bid, would pay as
much as C$2.5 billion in cash under the proposal, which is
priced about 15 percent higher than the LSE offer.  Alpha Group  Maple also said it aims to acquire Alpha Group, a bank-
owned operator of an alternative trading system that competes
with TMX, and Canadian securities clearing house CDS Inc. after
completing a takeover of the Toronto Stock Exchange owner.  LSE needs approval from  Canada ’s federal government as well
as provincial securities regulators and two-thirds of
shareholders. LSE and TMX submitted their application to
Canada’s federal government on April 29. The country’s industry
minister has 45 days, with a potential 30-day extension, to
review the application to determine whether the transaction is a
“net benefit” to the country.  The Maple bid wouldn’t require Industry Canada approval
because it’s not a foreign transaction, though it would face
reviews by regulators and Canada’s competition bureau, the group
said in a May 16 presentation.  TMX also said today that Maple has provided “inadequate
information” about its plans for TMX and that it carries the
risk that regulators will reject integrating  Alpha Group , a
bank-owned trading system that competes with TMX, and CDS Inc.,
Canada’s clearinghouse for equities, into TMX.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 