-- 
Yemen President Says He’ll Accepts GCC Plan, Reversing View

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-05-21T17:04:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-21/yemen-s-saleh-accepts-gcc-backed-plan-to-end-political-turmoil.html
Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh
said he agreed to a Gulf Cooperation Council plan for a
transition of power “to save the blood of Yemenis,” one day
after having rejected it.  Saleh’s commitment to the accord on handing over power
didn’t appear without doubts. Signing the GCC-backed plan will
be a “coup on constitutional legitimacy” and the result of
“pressure” from other nations, Saleh said today during a
televised speech at a military ceremony. Al-Qaeda militants will
strengthen their position in the country after his departure,
Saleh said.  Political unrest in Yemen has continued after Saleh refused
previously to sign a GCC-sponsored accord calling for his
departure and elections two months later. He would be the third
Middle Eastern leader forced from office by protest movements
this year, after  Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak  and  Tunisia ’s Zine El
Abidine Ben Ali.  GCC Secretary-General Abdel Latif al-Zayyani returned to
Yemen’s capital Sana’a today to complete the procedures for the
signing of an agreement “settling the political crisis in
Yemen,” the six-member group said in an e-mailed statement
today. The GCC is made up of  Saudi Arabia , Qatar, Bahrain, Oman,
the  United Arab Emirates  and  Kuwait .  The Joint Meeting Parties, an opposition coalition of six
parties, will sign the GCC agreement later today and Saleh will
sign tomorrow, Mohammed Qahtan, a spokesman for the opposition,
said in a telephone interview today.  Death Toll  Demonstrations in Yemen have killed 145 protesters and 154
security personnel, while 3,318 people and 1,327 security forces
have been injured in the unrest, Saleh said in the speech to
security forces on the anniversary of the 1990 unification of
north and south Yemen.  GCC officials are seeking to avert an escalation of the
violence in Yemen or a deadly military divide like the one in
 Libya . Rising social unrest also threatens to strengthen al-
Qaeda as it seeks to use Yemen, the poorest Arab nation, as a
base from which to destabilize neighboring Saudi Arabia, the
world’s largest exporter of crude oil.  “If the regime falls, al-Qaeda will take over,” Saleh
said. “It will control the situation. This is the message I
send to the U.S. and the European Union. The future will be
worse than what we have at the present.”  Saleh had rejected the GCC plan yesterday and offered his
own option. Under the proposal, he would step down for a
presidential election to be held within 60 days of the plan
being adopted, the ruling party’s spokesman, Tarik al-Shami,
said in a telephone interview after Saleh called for an early
vote.  He also refused to sign the accord on April 30 in his
capacity as president, saying he would only ratify it as
chairman of the ruling General People’s Congress, according to
Yemeni opposition leaders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 