-- ABB Casts Eye Over Potential Acquisitions to Boost Robotics
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-06-15T14:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/abb-casts-eye-over-potential-acquisitions-to-boost-robotics-1-.html
ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s largest power-
grid maker, said it may pursue acquisitions to expand its
business supplying robots for assembly lines as the Swiss
company is “very confident” about long-term demand for
automation.  ABB is already casting an eye over potential targets,
Ulrich Spiesshofer, head of ABB’s Discrete Automation and Motion
unit, said in an interview today. He declined to elaborate, or
comment on reports linking ABB to  Elster Group (ELT)  or  Invensys Plc. (ISYS)   “In discrete automation, we have a very strong pillar in
our portfolio on the robotics side,” Spiesshofer said. “We see
opportunities in that space to grow more both inorganically and
organically.”  Chief Executive Officer Joe Hogan is channeling more funds
into automation as ABB’s power and low-voltage units battle
pricing issues and low demand in  China  and southern Europe. ABB
may spend a maximum $10 billion between now and 2015 on
takeovers, Chief Financial Officer Michael Demare said May 11.  Attractive areas for growth include programmable logic
controllers as well as motion- and sensor-controls. ABB
bolstered its motors offering with the acquisition of Baldor
Electric Co. in 2011, Spiesshofer said.  Rising energy costs and efforts to improve power efficiency
in countries like the U.S., Australia and  Germany , as well as
state-backed efforts to improve efficiency in China are driving
demand at the automation and motion unit, which manufacturers
factory robots and drives for BMW AG and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   Targets Set  The automation and motion unit’s earnings before interest
and taxes have jumped to $1.3 billion in 2011 from $574 million
in 2009, boosted by profit from the purchase of Baldor Electric
Co. and a return to profitability in robotics in 2010 after a
bout of restructuring. The division reported the best
profitability of all ABB’s units in the first quarter of 2012,
and accounted for 21 percent of group revenue last year.  Spiesshofer, who has been tasked with growing organic
revenue at 12 to 15 percent per year between now and 2015,
declined to comment on this year’s progress toward that target.
Organic revenue grew 9 percent from a year earlier in the first
quarter.  “Long-term, I am confident that we can deliver what we
promised to our shareholders and customers,” he said.  European customers are “naturally careful about making
decisions” as a result of the economic environment, the ABB
executive said. Revenue is split equally between  Europe , the
U.S. and  Asia  after the acquisition of Baldor, and continues to
grow across all areas, he said.  The integration of Baldor, which ABB purchased for $4.1
billion last year, is “fully on track” and the motor-maker’s
growth is “in line with the division overall,” Spiesshofer
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  