-- Administration Reveals a Bit About Its War on Terrorists
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-06-15T23:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/administration-reveals-a-bit-about-its-war-on-terrorists.html
President  Barack Obama  sent a public
report to Congress today confirming that the U.S. is conducting
military operations against al-Qaeda in Yemen and Somalia and
counter-terrorism operations in Central  Africa .  The U.S. has deployed “combat-equipped forces to assist in
enhancing” counter-terrorism capabilities “of our friends and
allies, including special operations and other forces for
sensitive operations in various locations around the world,”
the administration said in the  letter  to Congress posted on the
White House website.  Those operations include direct U.S. military operations
against forces allied with al-Qaeda in Somalia and in
conjunction with the government in Yemen, according to the White
House statement addressed to House of Representatives and
Senate.  The U.S. also has deployed about 90 military personnel to
Uganda to assist local forces to “apprehend or remove”  Joseph Kony  a leader of the rebel Lord’s Resistance Army, according to
the White House statement.  The report to Congress doesn’t offer details of military
operations and doesn’t mention the role of U.S. intelligence
agencies around the world. It doesn’t discuss drone strikes in
 Pakistan , which are a source of tension with that country, and
it reveals less about a covert operation in Yemen, the White
House role in targeting drone strikes, and covert operations in
Africa than administration officials have disclosed to reporters
recently.  Congress Complains  Lawmakers in both political parties have complained that
the Obama administration recently has selectively leaked
classified information on military and intelligence operations
to select media outlets. Attorney General Eric Holder on June 9
named two federal prosecutors to investigate possible
administration leaks of classified information.  Obama has rejected the lawmakers’ claims that the
administration leaked classified information to boost the
president’s re-election prospects.  Today’s report to Congress includes information on military
operations around the world “owing to their growing
significance in our overall counterterrorism effort,” Pentagon
spokesman  George Little  said in a  statement .  The report and its contents were first reported by the
 Associated Press .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  