-- Maersk Gains on Bets Freight Rates to Rise: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-15T10:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/maersk-gains-on-bets-freight-rates-to-rise-copenhagen-mover.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , owner of
the world’s largest container line, snapped a three-day loss in
Copenhagen trading on bets customers will accept higher freight
prices.  Maersk rose as much as 3.2 percent, making the company
today’s second-biggest gainer the Copenhagen 20 index of
benchmark stocks. The share advanced 920 kroner, or 2.5 percent,
to 37,200 kroner at 12:24 p.m. in the Danish capital.  Maersk Line, the Copenhagen-based container division, today
introduced a peak-season surcharge on Asia- Europe  routes
following an easing of concerns that had prompted a two-week
delay. The market is “firm enough” to sustain the increase,
Maersk’s North Asia Chief Executive  Tim Smith  said in an e-mail.  The Shanghai Containerized Freight Index, which jumped 60
percent over the first four months of the year, retreated in May
as operators added vessels to take advantage of the better
rates. That jeopardized the supply and demand balance operators
had created by pooling or idling ships and slowing speeds.  Maersk Line is levying the $350 per twenty-foot container
surcharge as retailers stock up for the peak season. The carrier
and other lines earlier delayed surcharges as rising capacity
and concerns about the European economy damped rates and
shipments.  Maersk shares outperformed a 0.8 percent advance in the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index today, spurred by speculation central
banks may take steps to ease the fallout of Europe’s debt crisis
with additional stimulus measures.  -- With assistance from Alexandra Ho in  Shanghai . Editors:
Frances Schwartzkopff, Tasneem Brogger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  