-- Taiwan Dollar Snaps Weekly Slump, Bonds Decline on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-06-15T08:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/taiwan-dollar-set-for-weekly-gain-bonds-drop-on-stimulus-bets.html
Taiwan ’s dollar had the first weekly
gain in more than a month and government bonds dropped on
optimism policy makers worldwide will come up with fresh
stimulus measures to combat a global economic slump.  Taiwan’s government may push fiscal stimulus, including new
infrastructure projects, Economic Daily News reported on June 11,
citing Premier Sean Chen. U.S. reports yesterday showed jobless
claims unexpectedly climbed last week and consumer prices
dropped by the most in more than three years, giving the Federal
Reserve room for more monetary stimulus before a policy meeting
next week.  Greece  will vote June 17 in an election that may
determine its future in the euro.  “It looks like Taiwan’s government is prepared to take
action if the situation in  Europe  gets out of control,” said
 James Wang , a debt trader at Yuanta Securities Co. in Taipei.
“Whether the central bank will cut rates next week is highly
dependent on Greece’s election.”  Taiwan’s dollar strengthened 0.2 percent this week to
NT$29.931 against its U.S. counterpart, including a 0.1 percent
advance today, according to Taipei Forex Inc. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to price
options, rose 20 basis points, or 0.2 percentage point, during
the week to 5.6 percent. It was unchanged today.  Taiwan’s central bank will hold a quarterly policy meeting
on June 21 and, according to all nine economists in a Bloomberg
survey, is forecast to leave its benchmark  interest rate  at
1.875 percent.  The yield on the government’s 1.25 percent bonds due March
2022 climbed two basis points this week to 1.19 percent,
according to Gretai Securities Market. The rate was little
changed today.  The  overnight interbank lending rate  slipped one basis
point this week to 0.51 percent, according to a weighted average
compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  