-- Amazon Said to Start Apple Cloud Music Challenger in July
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-06-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/amazon-said-to-start-cloud-music-service-to-rival-apple-in-july.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  reached agreements
with the four major U.S.  record companies  to start a music
service that lets users store songs on a remote server and
access them online, people familiar with the matter said.  Amazon plans to start the U.S. service in the first week of
July, with Europe availability shortly after, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the plans are private.  With the agreements, Amazon’s music service will work
similarly to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes, letting multiple devices
access a centrally stored music collection. Amazon, whose Kindle
Fire tablet computer sells for $199 -- a lower price than
Apple’s least expensive iPad -- is seeking to make money by
offering higher-margin digital content on the device, such as
books, music and movies.  Sally Fouts, a spokeswoman for Seattle-based Amazon,
declined to comment.  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music Group ,  Sony
Corp. (6758) ’s music business, EMI Group Ltd. and billionaire Len Blavatnik’s Warner Music Group declined to comment in e-mail
statements.  Amazon, the world’s biggest Web retailer, gained 1.8
percent to $218.35 at yesterday’s close in New York. The stock
has climbed 26 percent this year.  The company first offered a cloud music service in March
2011 that circumvented the need for agreements with individual
record companies. Legally, the service required users to upload
tracks to Amazon’s servers, a lengthy and cumbersome process
depending on Internet speed. It also had limited playback
options.  With the new agreements, customers who buy music through
Amazon’s music store will be given a free amount of storage,
while those who choose to store their entire collections,
including tracks purchased elsewhere, will pay an annual fee,
the people said.  Amazon’s music service will also be available on iPads and
iPhones through the Kindle application for Apple devices, the
people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  