-- America Movil Agrees to Acquire 21% in Telekom Austria
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-06-15T14:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/america-movil-agrees-to-acquire-21-in-telekom-austria.html
America Movil SAB (AMXL)  agreed to buy a 21
percent stake in  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  from investor Ronny Pecik,
deepening Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim’s foray into  Europe .  Slim’s wireless company purchased 5 percent of the shares
and will acquire 16 percent later this year after regulatory
approval, a  filing  today showed. America Movil paid about 9.50
euros a share, said a person with knowledge of the matter,
asking not to be identified because the deal is private.  Telekom
Austria  rose 2.2 percent to 8.21 euros at 3:57 a.m. in Vienna,
valuing the 21 percent stake at 766 million euros ($967 million).  The acquisition is part of America Movil’s strategy to
establish footholds in Europe as the continent’s debt crisis
hurts the value of telecommunications assets. Slim’s  Mexico 
City-based company is also offering to boost its stake in former
Dutch phone monopoly  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  to 27.7 percent.  “America Movil is clearly keen on coming to Europe,” said
Bernd Maurer, an analyst at  Raiffeisen Centrobank  in Vienna.
“With an investor like Pecik holding a sizable stake, Telekom
Austria was a logical target.”  Telekom Austria’s enterprise value compared with earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization was 4.6
times in the last 12 months, versus a European industry average
of 5.2 times.  Diversification  America Movil  slipped  0.5 percent to 16.72 pesos at 8:58
a.m. in Mexico City.  America Movil said the deal is part of its geographic
diversification strategy and will provide an attractive presence
in Central and Eastern Europe. Telekom Austria Chief Executive
Officer Hannes Ametsreiter said he welcomes Slim as a strategic
and long-term investor who will contribute with its industry
knowledge.  Telekom Austria, based in Vienna, has operations in
 Belarus ,  Bulgaria ,  Croatia ,  Liechtenstein , Macedonia,  Serbia  and
Slovenia in addition to the carrier’s domestic network. The
company had 20.3 million wireless subscribers and 2.6 million
fixed lines at the end of March.  Pecik holds his stake together with Egyptian billionaire
 Naguib Sawiris . Both investors made a “nice profit” from the
transaction, Sawiris said in an interview.  Austria’s state assets agency OeIAG, which holds 28.4
percent and is Telekom Austria’s biggest shareholder, said it
welcomes  America Movil  taking a stake. Slim may be exploring the
possibility of accumulating a greater stake, if he secures the
support of the government, the person said.  Foreign Ownership  OeIAG spoke with several potential investors about Pecik’s
stake in the company, according to a statement. It was looking
for someone who would commit to the headquarters in Vienna for
Austria and central and eastern Europe, maintain a listing on
the Vienna Stock Exchange and follow a sustainable growth
strategy, it said.  “America Movil has met those goals in a convincing way,”
OeIAG CEO Markus Beyrer said.  In November, Austria amended a law to limit ownership of
infrastructure companies by non-Europeans. A new clause in the
country’s Foreign Trade Act states that stakes of 25 percent or
more require approval by the Ministry of Economics unless the
investor is from the European Union, the European Economic Area
or Switzerland.  It is unlikely that Slim will gain full control of Telekom
Austria, Dominik Klarmann, an analyst at  HSBC Trinkaus &
Burkhardt AG (TUB) , said in a June 13 research note. He has a neutral
 rating  on the stock.  ‘Attractive Valuations’  “We see no indication that the state is willing or in need
to sell its stake,” Klarmann said. America Movil “could be
taking advantage of attractive valuations” and “targets
operating in countries that present less economic risk.”  Telekom Austria has stakes in wireless carriers in seven
eastern European countries. While the former Austrian monopoly
originally built its international network to compensate for
slowing growth at its home market, weakening economies and
currencies in eastern Europe have hurt its earnings.  Telekom Austria, the subject of parliamentary corruption
hearings in the last year over improper payments, has been
slashing jobs in  Austria  to cut costs. The company reported net
income of 46.9 million euros in the  first quarter , compared with
a loss of 79.2 million euros a year earlier.  Belarusian Drag  The company’s operations in Belarus, where Telekom Austria
bought the country’s second-biggest mobile-phone company in
2007, continue to be a drag on earnings. Hyperinflation in
Belarus and foreign-exchange translations reduced sales by 96.5
million euros in the first three months of the year.  With the purchase of the 5 percent stake, America Movil
said it owns 6.7 percent of Telekom Austria and would own 23
percent when the additional 16 percent stake is acquired. Pecik
will remain vice chairman of Telekom Austria’s supervisory
board, America Movil said.  Slim is turning to Europe as subscriber growth slows in
markets such as Brazil and Mexico. Slim’s son, America Movil Co-
Chairman  Carlos Slim  Domit, said last month that the Mexican
billionaire sees Europe’s debt crisis as a “good moment” to
apply his strategy of investing in times of trouble.  America Movil in May made an unsolicited offer of 2.6
billion euros to increase its stake in KPN. KPN said the offer
is low and hired investment banks to explore options. The KPN
offer follows failed attempts in the past decade to enter Spain
and  Italy , and America Movil also considered purchases in the
past 18 months in Poland and Serbia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  