-- Manchester City Plans Purge to Fund Bid for Van Persie: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-06-15T06:41:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/manchester-city-plans-purge-to-fund-bid-for-van-persie-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  City Strikers  Manchester City is trying to sell strikers Carlos Tevez,
Edin Dzeko,  Emmanuel Adebayor  and Roque Santa Cruz to raise
funds for a bid to buy Arsenal’s Robin  van Persie , the  Daily
Mirror reported .  City officials have told manager  Roberto Mancini  that he
has to sell before he can buy and the club is unlikely to
sanction big payoffs for its unwanted strikers, who may struggle
to match their current salaries elsewhere, the Mirror added.  Kolarov Carrot  City will be offered Inter Milan defender Andrea Ranocchia
as part of the Italian club’s bid to sign Aleksandar Kolarov,
the  Sun reported .  Mancini is a long-standing admirer of Ranocchia and wants
to boost his center-back options with doubts over the long-term
prospects of Kolo Toure and Stefan Savic, the Sun added.  Arsenal Interest  Arsenal is interested in signing Russia midfielder Alan
Dzagoev, who’s scored three goals in two games at the European
Championship, the  Daily Mail reported .  The CSKA Moscow player, who’s rated at 13 million pounds
($20.2 million) is out of contract in December, the Mail added.  Villas-Boas Contact  Tottenham has made contact with former Chelsea manager
Andre Villas-Boas as it seeks replacement for  Harry Redknapp ,
the  Guardian reported .  Everton manager  David Moyes  is yet to be contacted by
Tottenham, while ex-Liverpool manager  Rafael Benitez  is out of
work and would be receptive to an approach, the newspaper added.  More for Moyes  Everton Chairman Bill Kenwright is ready to give Moyes a
raise to keep him at the club, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Moyes, who is about to enter the final year of his
contract, is already among the Premier League’s best-paid
managers with a salary of about 3.5 million pounds a year, the
Mirror added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  