-- Manufacturing in New York Area Expands at Slower Pace
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-06-15T13:16:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/manufacturing-in-new-york-area-expands-at-slower-pace.html
Manufacturing in the  New York  region
expanded in June at the slowest pace in seven months as orders
and sales cooled.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
 index  dropped to 2.3 this month, less than the lowest forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and down from 17.1 in
May. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the so-
called Empire State Index, which covers New York, northern  New
Jersey  and southern  Connecticut . The last negative reading was
in October.  A pullback by American consumers over the past two months
combined with a global slowdown means U.S. factories, one of the
bright spots of the recovery, may continue to receive fewer
orders and reduce production. Fed policy makers meet next week
to determine if the world’s largest economy needs further
stimulus to boost growth and reduce unemployment.  “The economy’s not building any momentum and instead we’re
sort of confined to a pretty mild pace of underlying growth,”
Sean Incremona, senior economist at 4Cast Inc. in New York, said
before the report, who projected the index would drop to 5.  Stock-index futures were little changed. The contract on
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in September rose 0.1
percent to 1,327.6 at 9:16 a.m. in New York.  The median estimate in a  survey  of Bloomberg economists
called for a decrease to 12.5. Estimates ranged from 5 to 16.1.  Orders, Shipments  The Empire State gauge of new orders fell to 2.2 in June
from 8.3 the prior month, while the shipments measure declined
to 4.8 from 24.1.  The index of factory employment decreased to 12.4 in June
from 20.5.  The index of prices paid fell to 19.6 from 37.4 in May.  Factory executives in the New York Fed’s district were also
less optimistic about the future. A measure of the outlook six
months from now fell in June to 23.1, the lowest since October,
from 29.3 the month earlier.  Manufacturing makes up 12 percent of the  U.S. economy  and
about 6 percent of New York’s.  Truckload carrier Landstar System Inc. of Jacksonville,
 Florida  is among companies counting on modest expansion in the
coming months.  “The growth that we’ve seen -- albeit slow growth -- we
continue to think that will be for the balance of the year,”
Pat O’Malley, Landstar’s vice president and chief commercial and
marketing officer, said at a June 13 conference.  Retail Sales  A report yesterday showed retail sales fell in May for a
second month as slower employment and subdued wage gains damped
demand. The 0.2 percent decrease followed a similar decline in
April that was previously reported as a gain, Commerce
Department figures showed.  Another report today showed industrial production cooled in
May as fewer motor vehicles rolled off assembly lines as sales
slowed. Output at factories, mines and utilities decreased 0.1
percent after April’s 1 percent advance that was the biggest
since December 2010. Manufacturing production dropped 0.4
percent last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  