-- Manz Seeks to Buy Battery Companies as Electric-Car Market Grows
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2012-06-15T14:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/manz-seeks-to-buy-battery-companies-as-electric-car-market-grows.html
Manz AG (M5Z) , a German maker of equipment
for flat-panel displays and solar power, is seeking to buy
battery-technology companies to diversify as the electric-car
market grows.  Manz has already identified small companies as targets
because of their technological potential and market value, Chief
Executive Officer Dieter Manz said in an interview in Munich,
without identifying any.  “In three to four years, there will be a very big
opportunity for batteries,” Manz said. “If the electric-car
market really picks up, auto companies won’t be able to make all
the batteries, so there will be a lot of new entrants.”  The market for electric and hybrid cars has grown as
governments introduce tax credits, fuel-economy requirements and
other measures to get cleaner vehicles on the roads, reducing
dependence on oil, cutting emissions and adding jobs. Advances
in battery technology have helped boost vehicles’ range and cut
costs, attracting new consumers.  Manz expects 2012 sales to match last year’s as demand
grows for touch panels on phones, tablets and lithium-ion
batteries, the Reutlingen-based company said last month.  Manz may also make vacuum tools in  China  for its touch-
panel business, setting up operations itself or buying
companies, according to the CEO, who founded the company in
1987. “But this is nothing big, maybe a 10 to 20 million-euro
investment,” he said.  The company posted a first-quarter loss before interest and
tax of 4.9 million euros ($6.2 million), citing a “difficult”
solar market as prices drop. Manz has about 2,000 employees and
operates plants in  Germany , China,  Taiwan , Slovakia and  Hungary .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 