-- Apology Issue Stalls U.S.-Pakistan Talks on Afghan Routes
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-06-15T15:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/apology-issue-stalls-u-s-pakistan-talks-on-afghan-routes.html
Talks to reopen supply lines through
 Pakistan  to U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanistan remain
deadlocked over Pakistan’s demands that the U.S. apologize for a
fatal air strike last November, U.S. and Pakistani officials
said in interviews.  A Pentagon team that left Pakistan earlier this week after
almost two months finished compiling the costs of various cargo
services, and wasn’t pulled out because negotiations  collapsed,
the officials said. Rather, the U.S. and Pakistan have reached
an impasse over political issues that are difficult to resolve
in an election year, according to more than half a dozen U.S.
and Pakistani officials. Most spoke after requesting anonymity
because of the sensitivity of the issue.  Even if negotiators for the two countries agree on higher
charges for cargo and an American expression of regret for
accidentally killing 24 Pakistani soldiers last November,
broader disagreements could forestall any deal. Those include
Pakistan’s demand that the U.S. halt drone strikes in its
territory and congressional moves to curtail U.S. aid to
Pakistan.  In addition, the 33-year jail sentence for Pakistani doctor
Shakil Afridi, who was recruited by the CIA to help locate  Osama
bin Laden , is an issue for U.S. officials and lawmakers.
Following initial reports that the doctor was jailed for treason
because of his CIA role, the tribal court released its five-page
ruling which said the conviction was for ties to a now defunct
militant group, which Afridi has denied in his legal appeal.  At Stake  U.S. and Pakistani diplomats insist they want an agreement
to reopen the supply lines as a first step toward rebuilding a
relationship that’s been in a downward spiral for 18 months.  “This is an important bilateral relationship for both
countries, so we shouldn’t lose sight of that. We have a lot at
stake here; they have a lot at stake,” Deputy Secretary of
State Thomas Nides said in an interview.  “There was no message being sent to the Pakistanis” by
the departure of the Pentagon team, Nides said. Other U.S.
officials disputed reports that Pakistan’s military snubbed the
team because of U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta ’s remarks
last week in Kabul that the U.S. was “reaching the limits of
our patience” with Pakistan.  The closing of the transit routes has forced the NATO-led
international force in Afghanistan to move its supplies through
a northern route in Central Asia instead, costing the Pentagon
about $100 million extra per month, Panetta told Congress on
June 13. Panetta’s figure is a “rough estimate” of the
additional costs of using the northern route and a detailed
breakdown is not available, Commander William Speaks, a Pentagon
spokesman, said in an e-mail today. The northern route is much
longer and involves more transit by land than access through
Pakistan, Speaks said.  Express Remorse  Pakistan’s ambassador to  Washington , Sherry Rehman, said in
an interview that the supply lines “were only closed when 24 of
our soldiers were killed at a border post and there was no rush
to express remorse.” The bulk of the technical work to allow
for reopening supply routes is done, and what remains
outstanding is a political agreement, she said.  “It is certainly not our intent to stand in the way of a
responsible security transition for NATO forces” as they
withdraw forces fighting in neighboring Afghanistan, she said.
“But like all other democracies, we, too, are accountable to
our parliament and people.”  Rehman also said that Pakistan isn’t holding up
negotiations over the cost of cargo. “There is no price
bargaining going on from Pakistan,” she said.  Money Issue  At least one U.S. lawmaker involved in Afghan policy said
he thinks price may still be an issue.  Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, said in an interview yesterday that
although the additional $100 million a month for using the
northern route through Central Asia is significant, it should
not be a deciding factor in forcing the U.S. to conclude a deal.
Pakistan, Levin said, is demanding the U.S. pay as much as
$5,000 per container shipped over its routes, up from about $250
each.  “We should not give in to Pakistani extortion on this,”
he said. “It’s totally out of keeping with any kind of a
relationship, which I think is in the interest of both parties
to maintain to the extent we can.”  Two Obama administration officials, though, said price may
no longer be as important an issue for the Pakistanis as an
apology is.  Border Incident  Pakistan’s parliament spent months assessing the
deteriorating state of U.S.-Pakistani ties, and issued
parameters for resetting the relationship in April, including an
apology for the killing of the Pakistani soldiers and an end to
unilateral U.S. drone strikes in Pakistani territory.  Cooperation between the two sides has been at a virtual
standstill since U.S. helicopters killed Pakistani troops who
had fired on U.S. forces near the border last November. Both
sides acknowledge that when U.S. officials privately agreed in
February to make a formal apology, Pakistan asked them to wait
until Pakistan’s parliament issued its report on resetting the
relationship.  By the time the review was completed two months later, a
series of attacks in  Afghanistan  by Pakistan-based militants
left U.S. officials furious and no longer willing to apologize,
the officials said on condition of anonymity.  A Pentagon investigation last December found that U.S.
forces raiding an Afghan village near the border took heavy
machine-gun fire from inside Pakistan and thought it came from
insurgents, because the U.S. ground commander had been told
there were no Pakistani troops in the area.  ‘Deepest Regret’  A Defense Department statement on Dec. 22 expressed “our
deepest regret” for “the loss of life -- and for the lack of
proper coordination between U.S. and Pakistani forces that
contributed to those losses.”  U.S. officials say they repeatedly have expressed regret
for the deaths of the Pakistanis, though they think Pakistan
shares responsibility for failing to communicate the location of
all its border posts and troops near the Afghan border.  Levin said the bigger issue souring U.S.-Pakistani
relations is Pakistan’s “continuing unwillingness” to press
harder against the Haqqani militant network that’s attacking
Afghan and coalition forces from bases in Pakistan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  