-- Asda Takes Lead With Extended Opening Hours on Olympic Sundays
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-06-15T11:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/asda-takes-lead-with-extended-opening-hours-on-olympic-sundays.html
Asda , the U.K. grocery chain owned
by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , plans to open for longer on Sundays
during the London Olympics, taking the lead over competitors who
aren’t convinced of the benefits of the eight-week opportunity.  Five Asda stores near the Olympic Park in Stratford, east
London, will open for 24 hours on eight Sundays starting July 22
after the government decided in March to lift restrictions
during the period, which also includes the Paralympics. The
chain’s other London outlets will open from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. on
those days, while stores in the rest of England and  Wales  will
stay open until 8 p.m., Asda spokeswoman Victoria Pourzand said.  Asda is the first of the four main U.K. supermarkets to say
it will take advantage of relaxed Sunday opening rules during
the games. U.K. laws typically restrict larger stores from
opening for more than six hours.  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the U.K.’s
third-largest supermarket chain, has said it doesn’t expect any
pick-up in business other than in a small number of stores, and
along with  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and  William Morrison Supermarkets Plc (MRW)  is
still considering whether to open stores for longer.  Asda’s decision will offer customers “greater flexibility
in the way they shop” during the games, Pourzand said.  The number of tourists visiting the U.K. is expected to
surge this summer, with about 1 million Olympic tickets being
made available for overseas applicants. Marks & Spencer Group
Plc Chief Executive Officer  Marc Bolland  has forecast the summer
to be the retailer’s best ever as Britons celebrate the games.  Staff Expenses  Analysts such as Nomura’s Nick Coulter have cast doubt on
the benefits of extending Sunday hours as retailers have to
balance the costs of keeping stores open and additional staff
expenses with potential sales increases.  Sainsbury CEO Justin King said this year that customers
aren’t calling for stores to be open longer on Sundays during
the games and he doesn’t believe the relaxation is “a big new
story for sales.” Current Sunday restrictions are “a good
British compromise,” he said, as it keeps Sunday special.  Sainsbury is liaising with the relevant authorities to
ensure that customers can “shop as normal” during the Olympic
period and has yet to make a decision on whether to extend
hours, spokesman Tom Parker said by e-mail.  Tesco is considering how to balance the need to offer
customers greater flexibility on Sundays during the Olympics
with ensuring that workers have an opportunity to watch the
action, spokeswoman Ruth McAllister said. The showcase men’s 100
meters final takes place on Sunday, Aug. 5.  Morrison is still considering where to extend Sunday hours
and for how long, Retail Director Mark Harrison said.  Upscale chain Waitrose Ltd. has said most of its outlets
will stay open for two hours longer.  “Some London-centric stores will benefit, but it’s not
going to move the goalposts,” Nomura’s Coulter said. “One
would think it’s just high-volume tourist destinations that will
benefit. It’s designed to take advantage of  London  and even in
London it will be very specific.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  