-- AsiaInfo Surges as ADRs Rally for Second Week: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-06-17T16:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/asiainfo-surges-as-adrs-rally-on-stimulus-bets-china-overnight.html
AsiaInfo-Linkage Inc. (ASIA)  and  E-Commerce
China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  sent Chinese stocks traded in the U.S. for
the steepest two-week rally since February on bets the nation
will join counterparts in taking steps to spur growth.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese companies gained 1.3 percent last week, extending a 3.5
percent surge in the five days ended June 8. AsiaInfo surged the
most since January after Reuters said the  software company  may
be acquired. E-Commerce jumped 21 percent for the week after
announcing a deal with  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  China Southern
Airlines Co. traded at a record discount to the Hong Kong stock
after Credit Suisse Group AG downgraded the shares.  China cut benchmark  interest rates  last week for the first
time since 2008 as the May inflation rate fell to the slowest
pace since June 2010. Government data showed last week foreign
direct investment in China was almost unchanged at $9.23 billion
last month from a year earlier, as the economy cooled and the
 yuan  weakened. Global equities rallied on speculation central
banks will act to boost economies before Greek elections during
the weekend.  “I’m very optimistic about Chinese stocks on the outlook
that its economic growth will stabilize,” Eric Brock, who helps
manage $3.8 billion as a portfolio manager at Clough Capital
Partners in  Boston , said by phone on June 15. “There should be
more cuts in the ratio over the next few months as a part of an
overall package of policy relaxation.”  $1 Billion Deal  The Bloomberg  China  gauge advanced 1.6 percent on June 15
to 91.42, the highest level since May 29. The iShares FTSE China
25 Index Fund, the biggest U.S.-listed China exchange-traded
fund, jumped 2.1 percent on June 15 to a one-month high of
$34.39, completing its third weekly advance. The Shanghai
Composite Index of mainland stocks rose 0.5 percent to 2,306.85,
ending the week up 1.1 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
added 1 percent to 1,342.84, pushing its weekly gain to 1.3
percent.  AsiaInfo rose 21 percent to $12.79 in  New York  last week,
the sharpest gain in more than four months.  The Beijing-based company, which sells telecommunications
software to China’s biggest wireless carriers, may become the
target of an acquisition by private-equity investors including
Silverlake, TPG Capital and Primavera Capital, Reuters reported,
citing people familiar with the deal. The deal valued at more
than $1 billion, it said.  Baby Products  Jimmy Xia, the company’s investor relations director,
didn’t immediately return a phone call and e-mailed request made
after hours seeking comment on the news report. Phone messages
left at the company’s office in  Santa Clara ,  California , were
also not immediately returned.  E-Commerce, the country’s biggest Internet book retailer
known as Dangdang, jumped 14 percent on June 15, the most since
Jan. 27. It’s surged 21 percent for the week and 34 percent for
the month.  The company has reached an agreement with Tencent Holdings,
China’s biggest Internet company, to run book and baby products
sales in its online store, the Chinese-language National
Business Daily reported June 13, citing unidentified people at
both companies. Tencent plans to invest $1 billion in its e-
commerce unit, it said in a May 24 statement.  China’s economy , the world’s second-largest, expanded 8.1
percent in the first three months this year, the slowest pace in
11 quarters. Inflation eased to 3 percent in May from 3.4
percent in April, the slowest reading since June 2010.  ‘Impact of Easing’  The Asian nation boosted its holdings of U.S. government
securities in April for the first time in three months to
$1.1455 trillion, U.S. Treasury Department data released June 15
showed.  “Typically, when you start to see signs of easing, they
continue for a while,”  Timothy Ghriskey , chief investment
officer of Solaris Group in  Bedford Hills , New York, which
manages about $2 billion in assets, said by phone on June 15.
“There’s a lag between easing attempts and the impact of that
easing on the economy.”  Suntech Power Holdings Co., the world’s largest solar-panel
maker, advanced 14 percent for the week to $1.84.  Trina Solar
Ltd. (TSL) , the world’s fourth-largest, rose 9.1 percent at the end of
last week to $6.59.  Jerry Stokes, Suntech’s European unit president, said in a
June 14 interview that  Germany  may install between six and seven
gigawatts of solar devices this year. Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government wants to reduce the pace of annual installations by
about half after new projects peaked at 7.5 gigawatts last year.  China Eastern Cut  Trina Chief Executive Officer Jifan Gao said in a separate
interview on the same day that “it’s possible” the market in
Germany will reach that level.  LDK Solar Co., the world’s second-largest maker of wafers,
surged 8 percent to $2.17 in its second day of gains. Yingli
Green Energy Holding Co., the sixth-largest silicon-based solar
module producer, climbed 9.2 percent to $2.84.  American depositary receipts of China Southern, Asia’s
biggest air carrier by passengers, sank 7.1 percent to $20.20 to
trade 7.3 percent lower than its Hong Kong stock.  Davin Chunpong Wu, an analyst at Credit Suisse, cut his
recommendations on China Southern to underperform from
outperform on June 15.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore oil explorer,
increased 4.6 percent to a one-month high of $198.27 in U.S.
trading. The ADRs, each representing 100 underlying shares in
the company, traded 1.2 percent above its Hong Kong stock, the
highest premium in three days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  