-- Asian Stocks Rise as Stimulus Hopes Offset Europe Concern
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-06-15T10:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/asia-stocks-rise-on-reports-policy-makers-may-spur-growth.html
Asian  stocks  gained, with the
regional benchmark index heading for its biggest weekly advance
in almost five months, as optimism that central banks from  China 
to the U.S. will act to stimulate economic growth tempered
concerns Europe’s debt crisis will worsen.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s third-largest
lender by market value, climbed 4.1 percent. Esprit Holdings
Ltd. gained 9.9 percent in Hong Kong, heading for its first
advance in three days, as the clothier said it will continue
with its transformation strategy after both its chairman and
chief executive officer quit. DeNA Co., Japan’s biggest social-
gaming operator, jumped 12 percent in  Tokyo  after announcing
plans to buy back shares.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced 1 percent to 114.15 as
of 7:54 p.m. in Tokyo, with almost two shares rising for each
that fell. The measure is heading for a 2.4 percent advance this
week, the most since January. The gauge dropped 12 percent from
this year’s peak on Feb. 29 through yesterday amid concern
growth in the U.S. and China is slowing as Europe’s debt crisis
intensifies.  “There’s quite a high chance that the U.S. may do more
easing,” said Terrace Chum, a  Hong-Kong  based  fund manager  at
Manulife Asset Management, which oversees $220 billion. “People
are expecting an interest-rate cut in China. There is
expectation that  Greece  may not part from the European Union.
But all these could turn around very quickly.”  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.4 percent. Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index climbed 2.3 percent. China’s Shanghai
Composite Index added 0.5 percent. South Korea’s Kospi Index
fell 0.7 percent.  Greek Polls  Trading volumes in Hong Kong were 56 percent higher
compared to the 30-day moving average ahead of the June 17 Greek
election, data compiled by Bloomberg showed. The polls may
determine if the country upholds austerity conditions attached
to international aid, or could lead to the first ouster from the
euro bloc.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  closed little changed,
erasing gains of as much as 0.7 percent. The  Bank of Japan  kept
the size of its asset-purchase fund unchanged today, as forecast
by 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Japan’s Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said today the Group of
20 should send a strong message on tackling Europe’s crisis when
leaders meet in  Mexico  next week.  Monetary policy makers are already leaning toward greater
stimulus a week after China cut borrowing costs for the first
time in four years.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said
the central bank will activate a sterling liquidity facility to
aid banks, and plans to have a form of credit easing operating
to boost lending as the case for looser policy “is growing.”  Spain Nerves  “We’re likely to see increasing talk from governments
about how they can encourage the growth agenda,” said  Angus Gluskie , who helps manages more than $350 million at White Funds
Management in Sydney. “That will benefit the markets as we move
towards the second half of the year. There’s plenty of
uncertainty out there. We may still see investors continue to be
nervous about Spain and Italy in the aftermath of Greece’s
election.”  Chinese lenders and infrastructure companies rallied in
Hong Kong after the Economic Information Daily reported China
plans to build six new coal-transport railways, citing Wang
Mengshu, of the Chinese Academy of Engineering.  Agricultural Bank of China  jumped 4.1 percent to HK$3.04 in
Hong Kong.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the nation’s second-
biggest lender, gained 2.7 percent to HK$5.28. China Railway
Construction Corp. climbed 2.7 percent to HK$6.07.  Energy producers led gains among the 10 industry groups in
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index as crude futures headed for a second
day of advance. Cnooc Ltd., China’s largest offshore oil
producer, jumped 3.8 percent to HK$15.20 in Hong Kong. Woodside
Petroleum Ltd. added 1 percent to A$32.35 in Sydney.  Fed Action  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.3
percent today. The gauge climbed 1.1 percent in New York
yesterday on heightened speculation the  Federal Reserve , which
meets for two days from June 19, will act to stimulate growth as
more Americans applied for jobless benefits and consumer prices
dropped.  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , the assembler of Apple
Inc.’s iPads, climbed 2.9 percent to NT$84.50 in Taipei. Quanta
Computer Inc., the world’s largest contract manufacturer for
 laptop computers , added 1 percent to NT$79.90. Techtronic
Industries Co., which makes Ryobi power tools and counts North
America as its biggest market, gained 1.1 percent to HK$9.07 in
Hong Kong.  Esprit Rebounds  Esprit jumped 9.9 percent to HK$10.14, rebounding from a
two-day 32 percent slump triggered by the resignations of CEO
Ronald Van der Vis and Chairman Hans-Joachim Koerber. No
strategic changes are planned to the clothier’s transformation
program, though some “adjustments” are possible, Van der Vis
said on the call yesterday.  DeNA surged 12 percent to 1,993 yen Tokyo after saying it
will spend as much as 20 billion yen ($252 million) buying back
as much as 10 percent of its stock.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  lost 0.8 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 5.7 percent advance by the
 S&P 500  and a 1.1 percent drop on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Shares on the Asian benchmark are  valued  at 1.2 times book
value, compared with 2.1 times for the S&P 500 and 1.3 times for
the Stoxx 600, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A number
below one means companies can be bought for less than value of
their assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  