-- AsiaInfo Jumps Most in Five Months on Acquisition Report
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-06-15T20:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/asiainfo-shares-jump-most-in-three-months-on-acquisition-report.html
AsiaInfo-Linkage Inc. (ASIA) , which sells
telecommunication software to China’s biggest wireless carriers,
surged in New York after Reuters said the company may be
acquired in a deal valued at more than $1 billion.  The Beijing-based company gained 15 percent to $12.79 at
the close of trading in New York, the most since Jan. 20. The
stock has advanced 65 percent this year after falling 53 percent
in 2011.  AsiaInfo may be the target of an acquisition by investors
including Silverlake, TPG Capital and Primavera Capital, Reuters
reported, citing people familiar with the deal.  “They think that it’s worth more than the public markets
think,” James E. Friedman, an analyst at Susquehanna Financial
Group in  New York , who rates the stock neutral, said in a phone
interview. “AsiaInfo is a real company with real customers. A
deal wouldn’t surprise me.”  The company said earlier this year that it may delist its
shares and that it had received acquisition offers from private-
equity funds. AsiaInfo  hired  Goldman Sachs ( Asia ) LLC in
February to consider an acquisition proposal from a subsidiary
of Citic Capital China Partners II, a private-equity fund owned
by  China Citic Bank Corp. (998) , a unit of the country’s biggest
state-owned investment company, the company said in a statement
on April 26.  Jimmy Xia, AsiaInfo’s investor relations director, didn’t
immediately return a phone call and e-mailed request made after
hours for comment on the news report. Phone messages left at the
company’s office in  Santa Clara , California, were also not
immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 Tbarak@bloomberg.net  