-- Austria ‘Warehouse’, Credit Suisse, NYC: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-06-15T12:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/austria-warehouse-credit-suisse-capital-nyc-jobs-compliance.html
Austria should consider warehousing
risky and non-performing assets of its nationalized lenders in a
vehicle that isn’t governed by banking laws, according to Klaus
Liebscher, the manager in charge of the nation’s bank aid.  Liebscher heads the Finanzmarktbeteiligung AG agency.  Putting toxic assets of rescued banks into a state-backed
body without a banking license may have advantages for Austrian
taxpayers, Liebscher said in an interview last week. Such a
model would mimic Germany’s FMS Wertmanagement, the agency that
is winding down 176 billion euros ($221 billion) of assets from
nationalized Hypo Real Estate Holding AG.  Austria nationalized two banks in 2008 and 2009 and
partially took over another one this year to prevent their
collapse. The nation had to inject fresh capital into all three
lenders to make sure they meet regulatory requirements after
losses on bad debt and on swaps depleted reserves. All major
ratings companies have warned the government that its banks are
the biggest risk to the Alpine republic’s credit rating.  Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG, which Austria
rescued after former owner Bayerische Landesbank walked away in
2009, may need about 1.5 billion euros in state aid by October
to meet regulators’ capital requirements. That’s after taxpayers
already injected 1.35 billion euros.  Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter has in the past
rejected proposals for such a model. She told journalists
earlier this week that such plans would have to be approved by
the EU, and that Austria wasn’t seeking such approvals
currently.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  U.K. Softens Vickers’ Bank Plan on Capital, Prompting Criticism  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne softened the
recommendations of the Independent Commission on Banking on how
much capital lenders must hold, prompting criticism from the
report’s author.  In the government’s first detailed response to the
proposals made by former Bank of England Chief Economist John
Vickers, the Treasury said that banks will only have to hold 3
percent of capital against total assets in line with Basel III
requirements rather than the 4.06 percent recommended in the
ICB’s September report. That will make it less costly for banks.  Osborne is adopting the overwhelming majority of the
Vickers report, which recommended that banks separate consumer
and investment banking operations and each have a separate board
with at least two thirds of their members sitting on only one
board. Banks will also be forced to have their own risk
committees.  In a further softening of the ICB’s proposals, Britain will
allow the consumer units of banks operating in the U.K. to hedge
currencies and some simple derivatives for small and mid-sized
companies. More complex derivatives trades won’t be allowed.
Vickers last year proposed all those functions remain outside
the consumer operations of a bank.  The opposition Labour Party attacked Osborne for not
presenting the plans in Parliament.  The Treasury plans to pass all legislation relating to
Vickers recommendations by 2015 and fully implement them by
2019, resisting pressure from the industry to slow down their
adoption.  For more, click here.  NYC Loses Jobs With Overseas Rule Exemptions, Gensler Says  New York financial firms would move jobs overseas if the
U.S. grants the industry’s request to exempt companies’ foreign
branches from some Dodd-Frank Act rules, said  Gary Gensler ,
chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Gensler made the remarks yesterday in an interview on
Bloomberg Television.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are among
U.S. firms to argue that applying Dodd-Frank rules to their
overseas branches or subsidiaries would threaten their ability
to compete with foreign-based rivals. Imposing the law’s margin
requirements on non-U.S. swaps would “eviscerate our ability to
serve clients overseas and cede the global market,” JPMorgan
Associate General Counsel Don Thompson said at a House hearing
Feb. 8.  The CFTC is set to propose guidance on June 21 on how the
U.S. may govern the international reach of Dodd-Frank rules on
derivatives, people familiar with the plan have said.  The CFTC also is planning an order providing overseas-based
swap dealers and some affiliates of U.S. banks as much as a year
to comply with all of Dodd-Frank regulations, Gensler said in a
speech prepared for an  Institute of International Bankers ’
conference in New York. The delay may affect compliance with
capital and some risk management regulations, Gensler said.  Overseas swap dealers would still be required to register
with the CFTC and report trades to swap data repositories,
Gensler said. The CFTC is seeking to have a system for allowing
compliance with overseas regulations substitute for Dodd-Frank
rules.  For the video, click here.  Global Bank Pay Rules Aren’t Being Applied Evenly, FSB Says  International efforts to enforce a common set of rules on
banker pay may be hampered by diverging national positions on
which staff should be covered by the measures, the Financial
Stability Board said.  There are “important differences” in how nations have
implemented the curbs, which were set by regulators in 2009 to
reduce excessive risk taking, the FSB said June 13 in a report
on its website. These include a potentially “wide variation”
in the range of employees that authorities target.  “Member jurisdictions have made different choices
regarding the institutions and employees that are covered,”
according to the report, drawn up for a meeting next week of the
Group of 20 nations. Divergences exist even within the 27-nation
European Union, the FSB said.  Public outrage and shareholder rebellions have forced some
banks this year to retreat from their initial pay plans. In a
bid to placate investors,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer
Robert Diamond agreed to forgo about 11 percent of his total
compensation until the bank increases profits. In a non-binding
April vote,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  shareholders voted to reject that
bank’s executive pay plan.  The measures are part of efforts to prevent a repeat of the
2008 financial crisis.  Dark Pool Limits Sought in House Committee by NYSE, Nasdaq  NYSE Euronext and  Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc., the biggest owners
of American stock exchanges, are urging U.S. legislators to
support changes to rules that caused a proliferation of broker-
run markets that draw orders away from public venues.  Dark pools and brokers should be required to provide better
prices than those available on exchanges or offer quotes
publicly at the best levels, the companies said in a written
presentation to staff of the House Committee on Financial
Services that Bloomberg obtained. Lawmakers are holding  hearings 
on the structure of U.S. markets in Washington on June 20. Dark
pools, unlike exchanges, are private venues that execute orders
without displaying bids and offers in advance.  The Securities and Exchange Commission should explain why
Regulation ATS, approved in 1998 to integrate alternative venues
that compete with exchanges listing stocks into the broader
marketplace, “remains sound policy,”  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and Nasdaq
OMX said. That rule and another set of changes the SEC approved
in 2005 overhauled trading and led to the creation of more than
four dozen venues that compete with the New York Stock Exchange
and Nasdaq. Executives at both companies have pushed for changes
to how dark pools operate over the past three years.  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman for NYSE Euronext, and Joseph
Christinat of Nasdaq OMX declined to comment.  Dark pools accounted for 13.6 percent of U.S. equities
volume in April, according to data compiled by Rosenblatt
Securities Inc.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Credit Suisse Urged by SNB to Boost Capital This Year  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  needs a “marked increase” in
capital this year to prepare the bank for a possible worsening
of Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, the Swiss central bank said.
The shares fell as much as 11 percent.  “For Credit Suisse, given the low starting point and the
risks in the environment, it is essential that it already
substantially expand its loss-absorbing capital base during the
current year,” the Swiss National Bank said in its annual
financial stability  report  yesterday. The central bank said
improvements can be achieved by suspending dividend payments or
selling new shares in addition to the banks’ plans for cutting
assets.  The SNB’s stress scenario assumes that the euro area falls
into a “deep recession,” which spreads to other European
countries including Switzerland and to the U.S. This could be
triggered by a disorderly default of several smaller peripheral
countries in the euro area, the central bank said.  Credit Suisse “has been at the forefront” in adapting to
regulatory change and attaches “highest priority to an
industry-leading capitalization,” the Zurich-based lender said
in a statement yesterday. The bank “has also established
transparency on its plan for both building up common equity
through retaining earnings and further asset reduction,” Credit
Suisse said.  For more, click here.  Separately, the Swiss National Bank will review its
communications procedures as a newspaper reported the bank’s
brief of its annual report may have created the opportunity for
insider trading in Credit Suisse derivatives.  The SNB will review how it publishes its annual financial
stability report, the central bank said in an e-mailed statement
today. The bank has so far presented preliminary information to
journalists under embargo before the official publication of the
release, “to explain the partly complex content of the
report,” it said.  Credit Suisse shares plunged 10 percent to 17.01 Swiss
francs yesterday after the central bank said, as part of the
 annual report , that the lender needs a “marked increase” in
capital this year. Turnover in  puts  that give the right to sell
Credit Suisse shares jumped on June 11, the day the SNB briefed
journalists, Zurich-based Tages-Anzeiger reported today.  Tobias Lux, a spokesman for the Finma market regulator,
wasn’t immediately available to comment. Alain Bichsel, head of
media relations at the SIX Swiss Exchange, declined to comment.  Commerzbank to Fix Money-Laundering Controls After Review  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-largest lender, agreed to
improve its anti-money laundering program after Federal Reserve
examiners determined the bank failed to establish internal
controls in its New York branch.  Commerzbank will submit a plan to the Fed within 60 days
detailing how it will revise its program for monitoring bulk
cash transactions and improve due diligence on customers,
according to an enforcement action the regulator released
yesterday.  Transactions going back to September 2010 will also be
reviewed by a consultant and the bank.  “Commerzbank has committed to take all necessary measures
to comply with the additional compliance and reporting
requirements agreed with U.S. regulators,” Margarita Thiel, a
spokeswoman for the Frankfurt-based bank, said in an e-mailed
statement.  NYSE-Nasdaq Feud Misses Congress as Greifeld Drops Hearing  The top executives of  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and NYSE
Euronext won’t get to face off before lawmakers next week over
how brokers affected by  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s botched initial public
offering should be compensated.  Nasdaq Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  declined an
invitation to testify June 20 at a House Financial Services
capital markets subcommittee hearing, according to two people
with knowledge of the plans. The decision means Greifeld won’t
have to spend several hours sitting at the same table as NYSE
Euronext CEO  Duncan Niederauer , who has led the fight against
Nasdaq’s compensation plan for customers affected by the glitch.  Representative Scott Garrett, the  New Jersey  Republican who
is chairman of the subcommittee, called the hearing to discuss
market-structure issues. The  Facebook IPO , however, might have
dominated the hearing had Greifeld and Niederauer appeared
before the panel together.  Executives from Direct Edge Holdings LLC,  Knight Capital
Group Inc. (KCG) ,  Invesco Ltd (IVZ)  and GETCO LLC have also received
invitations to testify, according to one of the people, who
wasn’t authorized to speak publicly about the planning.  Joseph Christinat, a Nasdaq spokesman, and Richard
Adamonis, a spokesman for NYSE, declined to comment.  Courts  ECB Tells Court Releasing Greek Swap Files Would Inflame Markets  The  European Central Bank  said it can’t release files
showing how Greece may have used derivatives to hide its
borrowings because disclosure could still inflame the crisis
threatening the future of the single currency.  Bloomberg News is suing the ECB to provide the documents
under European Union freedom-of-information rules. The papers
may help show the role EU authorities played in allowing Greece
to mask its deficit for almost a decade before the nation’s
troubled finances necessitated a 240 billion-euro ($301 billion)
bailout and the biggest debt restructuring in history.  Bloomberg’s lawsuit, filed in December 2010, requested
access to two internal papers drafted for the central bank’s
six-member Executive Board. They show how Greece used swaps to
hide its borrowings, according to a March 3, 2010, note attached
to the papers and obtained by Bloomberg News.  These documents “played a role” in shaping policy and
“highlighted there were issues” when the ECB undertook a
review of its eligibility criteria for collateral in its funding
operations, the ECB lawyer told the court.  For more, click here.  Ex-SEC Enforcement Attorney Pleads Not Guilty to Wire Fraud  Daryl Hudson III, a former senior counsel in the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission’s enforcement division,
pleaded not guilty in federal court after being charged with
seven counts of wire fraud.  Hudson, who is chairman and chief executive officer of
Hampden Kent Group LLC, was arraigned yesterday in U.S. District
Court in Albuquerque, New Mexico. He was indicted May 23 and
faces as long as 30 years in prison and a $1 million fine on
each charge if convicted.  He worked at the SEC from 1982 to 1985, according to the
indictment.  Hudson, 59, of the District of Columbia, is accused of
engaging in a scheme to defraud Santa Fe-based  Bluenergy
Solarwind Inc.  by falsely representing that he could secure debt
funding to help the company grow, according to a statement by
New Mexico U.S. Attorney Kenneth J. Gonzales.  “The allegations in the indictment concern one disgruntled
client who, over a three-week period, misled my client about its
business and in fact could not demonstrate any product or
revenues to obtain financing,” David A. Streubel, a lawyer for
Hudson, said in an e-mail yesterday.  When the full story is explained in court, he said, “Mr.
Hudson will be completely exonerated.”  The case is U.S. v. Hudson, 12-01250, U.S. District Court,
District of New Mexico (Albuquerque).  SEC Seeks to Reinstate Claims Against Goldman Sachs’s Tourre  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission asked a court
to reinstate fraud claims it dismissed against  Fabrice Tourre ,
the  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  trader accused of misleading
investors in a collateralized debt obligation.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones in Manhattan last June
threw out some of the SEC’s claims after Tourre argued that he
couldn’t be held liable under U.S. securities law for foreign
transactions that occurred outside the country. Jones cited a
2010 U.S. Supreme Court ruling that U.S. securities laws don’t
protect foreign investors who buy stocks on overseas exchanges.  The SEC initially sued the London-based trader in April
2010, saying he defrauded investors by not disclosing that hedge
fund Paulson & Co. had helped pick the underlying securities for
a CDO called Abacus and planned to bet against them. After
reaching a $550 million settlement with New York-based Goldman
Sachs, the SEC filed a new claim against Tourre, saying he gave
the company “substantial assistance” as it misled investors.  Pamela Rogers Chepiga, a lawyer representing Tourre, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the SEC’s filing
after regular business hours.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-03229, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Stanford Gets 110-Year Sentence for $7 Billion Ponzi Scheme  R. Allen Stanford, found guilty of leading a $7 billion
international fraud, was sentenced to 110 years in prison after
a prosecutor said he treated his victims like “road kill.”  U.S. District Judge David Hittner imposed the sentence
yesterday in Houston and ordered Stanford to forfeit
$5.9 billion. Jurors in March convicted the Stanford Financial
Group principal of 13 charges, including five counts of mail
fraud and four of wire fraud.  The jury had found Stanford, 62, lied to those who bought
certificates of deposit issued by his Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank Ltd. and sold in the U.S. by his Houston-
based securities firm. Prosecutors said Stanford wasted investor
money on failing businesses, yachts and cricket tournaments and
secretly borrowed as much as $2 billion from his bank.  Defense lawyer Ali Fazel said there would be an appeal.  “We’re very disappointed in the outcome,” Fazel said.
“It’s a harsh punishment, and it’s tough on him. He is upset
because he feels like he didn’t do anything.”  “I never planned to, never did, either corporately or
personally, defraud anyone and never set out to do that,”
Stanford told the judge.  Prosecutors had asked for a 230-year term, the maximum
under federal sentencing guidelines. Fazel requested a 10-year
term for his client.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  Interviews  Frank Sorrentino Says Banks Should Be Allowed to Fail  Frank Sorrentino, chief executive officer of North Jersey
Community Bank, discussed the congressional testimony of
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon.
Sorrentino talked with Bloomberg’s Pimm Fox and Courtney Donohoe
on Bloomberg Radio’s “Taking Stock.”  For the audio, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 