-- Baht Heads for 2nd Weekly Advance as Asian Data Shows Resilience
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-06-15T02:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/baht-heads-for-2nd-weekly-advance-as-asian-data-shows-resilience.html
Thailand ’s baht was poised for a
second weekly advance as data released this week showed Asian
economies are proving resilient to Europe’s debt crisis.
Government bonds rallied.  The currency strengthened for a third day after Bank of
England Governor Mervyn King said yesterday the case for more
stimulus in the U.K. “is growing.” U.S. consumer prices fell
in May, giving the Federal Reserve more room to revive the
world’s largest economy. The Philippines reported that exports
increased more than economists forecast in April, while the
South Korean  unemployment rate  fell to a four-month low of 3.2
percent in May.  “Asia’s economy remains quite solid,” said  Yuji Kameoka ,
chief currency strategist at Daiwa Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “If
Europe’s crisis worsens, that will adversely impact other
nations and central banks in the developed nations will take
actions to support their economies.”  The baht rose 0.6 percent this week and 0.2 percent today
to 31.51 per dollar as of 8:51 a.m. in Bangkok, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It reached 31.47 earlier, the
strongest level since June 11. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options, was
unchanged at 4.52 percent today and this week.  The Bank of Thailand held its benchmark  interest rate  at 3
percent on June 13. The rate is considered “very accommodative
and appropriate for economic recovery,” Assistant Governor
Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said the same day.  The yield on the 3.25 percent bonds due June 2017 fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, this week to 3.39
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate
advanced two basis points today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 