-- Bernanke’s Inflation View Validated as Commodities Fall
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-06-15T15:22:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/bernanke-s-inflation-view-validated-as-commodities-fall.html
A plunge in global commodity prices
is tilting the balance in favor of Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and colleagues who may seek further action to boost
growth as the U.S. labor market falters and risks from Europe
rise.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of 24
commodities has fallen 16 percent since May 1. Oil is down 21
percent, and corn has slumped 18 percent. Inflation, as measured
by the personal consumption expenditures index, slowed to an
annual 1.8 percent rate in April, below the Fed’s 2 percent
goal. The  consumer price index , another measure of the cost of
living, fell by the most in more than three years in May, a
report yesterday showed.  “The whole inflation backdrop has vindicated Chairman
Bernanke’s view that a lot of these dynamics were transitory,”
said  Julia Coronado , a former Fed economist. “Inflation isn’t
in any way restricting them from taking action” when policy
makers meet June 19-20, said Coronado, chief economist for North
America at BNP Paribas SA in New York.  When gasoline prices soared to almost $4 a gallon and
annual inflation climbed as high as 2.9 percent, Bernanke said
the increases wouldn’t last. That put him at odds with policy
makers, including Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  and
Richmond’s  Jeffrey Lacker , who warned that the Fed’s record
balance sheet risked igniting inflation and said the Fed should
dial back a pledge to keep its key interest rate low at least
through late 2014.  ‘Hard to Argue’  “It’s hard to argue that an earlier tightening is
warranted given what we’re seeing on inflation,” said Paul Edelstein, director of financial economics at IHS Global Insight
in Lexington,  Massachusetts .  The outlook for inflation is “subdued,” and price
increases will probably remain at or slightly below the Fed’s 2
percent goal, Bernanke said in testimony to the Joint Economic
Committee of Congress on June 7. Higher unemployment and
retreating oil and gas prices “should continue to restrain
inflationary pressures.”  Gasoline and oil have led the price indexes lower. Gasoline
fell to $3.53 a gallon on June 13 from a 2012 peak of $3.94 in
April, while oil was $83.91 a barrel as of yesterday after
peaking at $109.77 in February in trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  ‘More Grim’  “We will see inflation decelerate a little bit from here,
but probably not massively,” said  Eric Lascelles , chief
economist at RBC Global Asset Management in Toronto, which
manages about $250 billion. “The world’s looking a bit more
grim. Demand is not quite as strong, and so consequently
commodity prices are beginning to retreat.”  The so-called core personal consumption expenditures index,
which excludes volatile food and energy costs, rose 1.9 percent
in April from a year earlier, down from 2 percent in March.
Economists predict  core inflation  will end the year at 1.8
percent, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey.  The economy added 69,000 jobs in May, the fewest in a year,
and the  unemployment rate  climbed to 8.2 percent from 8.1
percent, according to June 1 Labor Department report. The Fed’s
long-term goal for unemployment is 5.2 percent to 6 percent,
according to the central tendency projection. Growth in average
hourly earnings declined to 1.7 percent in May from a year
earlier.  Payrolls Rose  Payrolls increased in 27 states last month, while the
unemployment rate climbed in 18, indicating progress in the U.S.
labor market remains uneven. California led the nation with a
33,900 gain in payrolls, followed by Ohio with 19,600 more jobs,
figures from the Labor Department showed today in  Washington .  U.S. industrial production unexpectedly fell in May for the
second time in three months as factories turned out fewer
vehicles and  consumer goods . Output at factories, mines and
utilities decreased 0.1 percent last month after a revised 1
percent gain in April, the Fed reported today in Washington.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent to
1,336.88 at 10:58 a.m. in  New York . Yields on the benchmark 10-
year Treasury note fell seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, to 1.57 percent.  Investors expect annual price increases of 2.1 percent over
the next 10 years, as measured by the difference between nominal
bonds and inflation protected securities.  More Comfortable  “The decline in headline inflation is welcomed by the
doves, but what is in play now is the prospect of pushing back
the rate guidance, and that is being driven more by the growth
than the inflation story,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S.
economist for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York.  Following the May jobs report, Feroli and his team at
JPMorgan trimmed their growth outlook for the third quarter to 2
percent from 3 percent and said the Fed is now likely to act as
soon as June by purchasing more bonds or altering its pledge in
the statement to hold rates near zero through late 2014.  The Fed reduced its benchmark  interest rate  almost to zero
in December 2008 and later bought $2.3 trillion in securities in
a bid to push longer-term borrowing costs lower. In January, it
said it would keep rates near zero at least through late 2014,
extending an earlier pledge of mid-2013.  In September, the central bank started its so-called
Operation Twist program intended to lengthen maturities of bonds
in its portfolio, with plans to purchase $400 billion of longer-
term Treasuries and sell $400 billion of short-term debt. The
program is schedule to end this month.  OECD Data  Price pressures have been easing across the developed
world, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development. Data released May 29 show inflation among its
34 member countries slowed to 2.5 percent in April from 3.3
percent in September.  Even so, a slight decline in inflation in the near term
wouldn’t prove that members of the FOMC who favor an earlier
tightening were incorrect in their assessment of the risks that
prices might surge at a later date, Edelstein said.  “When most Fed hawks talk about inflation risk, they’re
not talking about what we’re seeing now,” Edelstein said.
“They’re more worried if we ease more and it becomes hard to
get ourselves out of it further down the road.”  Philadelphia’s Plosser dissented from FOMC decisions in
August and September of last year to add stimulus. In a May 3
speech, Plosser said he forecasts subdued inflation for now.  ‘Moderate Levels’  “My outlook is for about 3 percent growth in both 2012 and
2013,” Plosser said in  Santa Barbara , California. “I predict
that inflation will hover near or slightly above 2 percent over
much of the period.”  Richmond’s Lacker has dissented from all three decisions of
the  Federal Open Market Committee  this year, objecting to the
2014 pledge. Lacker has argued the Fed will have to raise rates
next year as growth accelerates.  Declining inflation and a rise in unemployment rate are
making those arguments less persuasive, said  Eric Green , global
head of foreign exchange, interest-rate and commodities research
for TD Securities in New York.  “The pattern is working very neatly toward how the doves
see the balance of risks,” said Green, a former New York Fed
economist, referring to policy makers such as Chicago Fed
President  Charles Evans  and Boston’s  Eric Rosengren .  Evans, in a June 11 interview in Chicago, said he’s “been
in favor of pretty much any accommodative policy I’ve heard
about.”  “I’m sure that we’ll get the unemployment rate below 7
percent -- the question is when,” said Evans, who was the only
member of the FOMC last year to dissent in favor of more
stimulus. “It’s currently going to take longer than anybody
would like. If we had more aggressive monetary policy, it would
happen sooner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  