-- Bianco Withdraws 5% S&P 500 Rally Estimate Before Greek Election
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-06-15T15:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/bianco-withdraws-5-s-p-500-rally-estimate-before-greek-election.html
David Bianco , Deutsche Bank AG’s
chief U.S. equity strategist, withdrew a forecast that the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will post a near-term gain of 5
percent or more, citing uncertainty before  Greece ’s elections
this weekend.  While Bianco maintained his year-end projection of 1,475
for the  index , he said he’s no longer convinced the next 5
percent move in the gauge is higher. The strategist cited the
difficulty predicting the Greek elections, which may result in
the nation leaving the euro, and disappointing reports on the
U.S. and global economies.  “We will reengage our ‘Next 5%+’ call as either up or down
after the Greek elections and when incoming data on the global
economy and cross asset class signals help to tip our scales,”
Bianco wrote in a note dated yesterday. The “Greek elections
are too close to call; even if Syriza beats  New Democracy  we do
not expect an immediate euro withdrawal or aggressive EU
confrontation.”  Policy makers have intensified warnings that  Europe ’s
failure to tame its debt crisis threatens to roil world
financial markets as Greece’s looming election presents the next
flashpoint for investors. A victory by Syriza, which opposes
spending cuts that are the condition of more aid, could prompt
the nation’s exit from the euro. The Group of 20 leaders will
meet in  Mexico  next week amid the weakest international economy
since the 2009 recession.  The  S&P 500  gained 0.7 percent to 1,337.88 at 11:34 a.m.
New York time today amid speculation central banks will take
action to spur economic growth. Greek voters go to the polls in
two days after a May 6 election failed to produce a government.  Bianco said the index is likely to rebound should it fall
below 1,325, and fall if it exceeds 1,375.  Concern about a global economic slowdown and a worsening of
Europe’s debt crisis put the S&P 500 on the brink of a
correction, or 10 percent drop, earlier this month. The index
dropped 9.9 percent from an almost four-year high in April
through June 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  