-- Blackstone Pitches Old New York Times Home to New Media
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-06-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/blackstone-pitches-old-new-york-times-home-to-new-media.html
The Manhattan office tower that
housed the  New York  Times for nine decades can now be found
hosting social-media executives zipping around its empty floors
on Razor scooters or trying out a set of ping-pong tables.  The wheeled toys enable prospective tenants to speed
through what was once the newspaper’s cafeteria, now stripped
bare. Along with the ping-pong tables is a basketball court --
the better to emphasize a 21-foot (6-meter) high, column-free
space that owner  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  is marketing as an amenity
to technology companies.  “We’re trying to show that the building is iconic, but
also fun,” said Josh Glick, vice president of leasing for the
New York market at Blackstone’s Equity Office Properties
subsidiary. “A lot of decision-makers are coming through and
saying I can not only house my business here, but I can
transform my business.”  Blackstone, which bought the top 12 floors of the building
at 229 West 43rd St. last year, is seeking to attract fast-
growing Internet and communications firms to the former home of
the most august name in old media. To do so, the world’s biggest
private-equity firm needs to lure tenants that have become
accustomed to hip neighborhoods such as Soho, Chelsea and
Flatiron to a property located in the heart of  Manhattan ’s
theater district and steps from Times Square, an area more known
for tourists than techies.  Facebook, Amazon  Blackstone, based in New York, has invested $105 million in
renovations and is offering a tenant the opportunity to put its
name on the rooftop cupola, once emblazoned with the New York
Times’ gothic-type logo. Facebook Inc. and Amazon.com Inc. are
among the companies that have toured the building, said brokers
with knowledge of the marketing, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private.  “This changing physical landscape speaks to the changing
economy,” said  Ken Doctor , media analyst with Newsonomics.com,
and a former vice president overseeing online initiatives at the
newspaper company Knight Ridder Inc. “A Foursquare logo, for
instance, appearing where the  New York Times (NYT)  logo once appeared
gives you the physical reinforcement of how the basic economy of
the  United States  and the intelligence economy is moving.”  Data, media, information-technology and advertising firms
have been gravitating to an area below Times Square known as
Midtown South, the market roughly between 30th and Canal streets
that has the lowest office-vacancy rate in the country. About 34
percent of the 1.9 million square feet (177,000 square meters)
of leasing done this year by creative and tech-focused companies
was in Midtown South, which has only 16 percent of Manhattan’s
office inventory, according to Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  ‘Cool’ Location  “There’s a lot of things down there for employees to do
before and after work, and those amenities are not necessarily
in” Times Square, said Robert Stella, principal of Boston-based
brokerage Cresa, which represents office tenants in Manhattan.
 Midtown South  is “more cool and hip,” though tenants probably
won’t base their decision on location alone, he said.  There is nothing as large in Midtown South as the 480,000
contiguous square feet available in the 16-story Times building.
The office portion of the property has been sitting empty since
the newspaper and its parent New York Times Co. moved in 2007 to
their new headquarters around the corner on Eighth Avenue.  Open Spaces  The 99-year-old former Times building bears the
characteristics that so-called creative companies have shown
they desire: vast, open floors that allow employees to
collaborate; vintage architecture, with the top three floors
designed to resemble a chateau in  France’s Loire Valley ; and
vaulted windows that bathe the space in natural light. It also
has about 25,000 square feet of outdoor terraces, some of which
Blackstone has decorated with plantings and picnic tables.  “If they could move the building 40 blocks south, they
would have leased it 40 times over,” said  Richard Bernstein ,
vice chairman at Cassidy Turley, a commercial-property services
firm with offices in New York. “Since that’s not an option, I
think they will find the right, discriminating, high-profile
tenant. It’s just going to take them a little bit more time.”  Blackstone has been marketing the space since November,
about seven months after completing the purchase, and is working
with brokers from Newmark Grubb  Knight Frank . The company is
asking for an average of $67 a square foot, according to a
broker with knowledge of its campaign.  Midtown Rents  Asking rents for Midtown averaged $62.29 a square foot in
May, according to data from Cassidy Turley, and $68.61 for Times
Square. Landlords were seeking $72.96 a foot for so-called Class
A space in the neighborhood. In Midtown South, Class A rents
were $62.17. Overall rents were to $45.71 a square foot -- a 3.3
percent increase in a single month.  Glick declined to comment on pricing or companies
interested in the space, as did Brian Waterman and Lance Korman,
Newmark’s brokers working with  Blackstone . Glick said that while
there’s a “great deal of truth” to the idea that technology
and media tenants are reluctant to look outside Midtown South,
the Times building may be better able to accommodate them.  “If you peel back the layers a little bit, Midtown South
is a super-tight market,” Glick said. “It doesn’t service the
tenants who want large blocks of space.”  The largest comparable block of space available in Midtown
South is 414,000 square feet in Soho at 101 Avenue of the
Americas, a glass tower completed in 1991 that is “not at all
the same style” as the Times building, Robert Sammons, vice
president for research at Cassidy Turley, said in an e-mail.  Viacom, LinkedIn  Times Square isn’t void of the types of companies
Blackstone is seeking to attract.  Viacom Inc. (VIA)  and  Thomson
Reuters  have offices in the area.  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , owner of the
world’s biggest professional-networking site, leases space in
the Empire State Building. Yahoo! Inc., the largest U.S. Web
portal, has offices in Midtown.  “These tenants have migrated away from the thinking of
being in Chelsea,” Waterman said. “You’re going to be
surprised where some of these tenants sign leases. The ones who
have traditionally been located in those districts are going to
start migrating north.”  Besides Facebook and Amazon, companies that have looked at
the Times building include London-based  WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s
largest advertising firm, which considered it for one of its
subsidiaries, one of the brokers familiar with the matter said.  Slater Tow, a spokesman for  Menlo Park ,  California-based
Facebook , declined to comment, as did Ty Rogers, a spokesman for
Seattle-based Amazon. Kevin McCormack, a WPP spokesman, didn’t
return phone and e-mail messages.  Deutsch Looking  The building was one of “dozens of properties” looked at
by Deutsch Inc., the  advertising agency  whose chairman is
television personality Donny Deutsch, said Vonda LePage, a
spokeswoman. The company is seeking 140,000 square feet and
hasn’t made a decision yet, LePage said. Deutsch is currently at
Google Inc.’s building at 111 Eighth Ave. in Chelsea, and has a
renewal option there.  The building at 229 West 43rd St. was the fifth to house
the Times since its founding in 1851, according to the company’s
website. It was originally commissioned as an annex to the tower
the company built at Broadway and 42nd Street in 1905, whose
construction led to the renaming of Long Acre Square to Times
Square. That building is now known as One Times Square, the
advertising-festooned tower whose roof hosts the ball that drops
on New Year’s Eve.  Two Buyers  The property has passed through two owners since 2004, with
vastly different outcomes for each.  Tishman Speyer Properties LP bought the tower from the
Times in 2005 for $175 million. Two years later, as real estate
prices were peaking, Speyer sold it to Yehud, Israel-based
 Africa-Israel Investments Ltd. (AFIL)  for $525 million.  A plunge in  property values  left the building worth far
less than the $711 million of debt Africa-Israel had placed on
it, and in late 2009, it brought in Five Mile Capital Partners
LLC as a partner in a settlement with creditors.  The building was split into separate office and retail
condominiums when Blackstone acquired the upper floors for $160
million. Africa-Israel and Five Mile remain in control of the
four lowest floors and the basement, where the Times’ presses
used to rumble. Today the basement houses Discovery TSX, an
exhibition hall co-founded by the  Discovery Channel  that has
displayed artifacts from the Titanic and King Tut’s chariot.  Blackstone Deal  Based on the 480,000 square feet it is marketing,
Blackstone paid about $333 a square foot for the  office space , a
deep discount for Times Square. The nearby skyscraper at 1515
Broadway is  worth  about $1.6 billion, or $900 a square foot,
landlord SL Green Realty Corp. Chief Executive Officer Marc
Holliday said in April after Viacom, the anchor tenant, extended
its lease. The valuation includes the retail portion of that
building.  Blackstone is willing to offer space as small as 22,000
square feet on lower floors, and 16,000 square feet on the
smaller top four floors. In its offering book, the company
suggests dividing the building into contiguous 200,000- and
230,000-square-foot units, topped by a 43,000-square-foot space
for the three highest floors, which once housed the Times’
executive suites.  Blackstone’s track record and the quality of the building
should eventually entice companies to lease space there, said
Jeffrey Peck, a senior managing director at Studley Inc., a
brokerage firm that only represents tenants.  “Right now, tech and media tenants are focusing on the
submarkets where tech companies are,” he said. “Ultimately,
these types of tenants grow up and need a building with a great
location and tremendous infrastructure, both of which this
has.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  