-- BNDES Offers $9.8 Billion to Brazil States as Growth Slows
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2012-06-15T17:57:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/bndes-offers-9-8-billion-to-brazil-states-as-growth-slows-1-.html
Brazil ’s state development bank will
lend as much as 20 billion reais ($9.8 billion) to states as
part of a government plan to revive economic growth by boosting
investments in infrastructure.  States have until January 2013 to tap the  credit line 
created by the Rio de Janeiro-based BNDES to help shield the
economy from slower global growth, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said. The Treasury will be allowed to guarantee the
loans to reduce interest rates paid by states, he said.  Brazil’s  economy  contracted in April for the first time on
an annual basis since September 2009, reinforcing economists’
expectations that growth in the world’s biggest emerging market
after China will slow for a second straight year. Analysts
surveyed by the central bank expect 2012 growth to slow to 2.53
percent even after policy makers reduced borrowing costs to a
record and the government cut taxes on credit and consumer
goods, and increased subsidized loans to companies.  Today’s measures are “an anti-cyclical policy of the state
and federal government to reduce the exposure to the
international crisis,” Mantega told reporters in Brasilia.
“With these measures we are increasing the investment capacity
of states, stimulating new projects.”  Economic Contraction  The non-seasonally adjusted economic activity index, a
proxy for gross domestic product, fell 0.02 percent in April
from a year earlier, its first contraction in 31 months, the
central bank said today.  Analysts  expected  a 0.10 percent increase, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 18 economists.
Seasonally adjusted activity rose 0.22 percent in April from
March, when it contracted a revised 0.61 percent.  Analysts have scaled back their forecasts for Brazilian
growth this year to 2.53 percent from 3.2 percent a month ago,
according to the latest central bank survey. The economy grew
2.73 percent last year, its second-worst performance since 2003.  “The recovery is much slower than expected, it’s hard to
see the economy growing faster this year than last,” said Joao Mauricio Rosal, chief economist at Raymond James Brasil SA.
“People are quite indebted and that’s affecting demand.”  The April figure follows gross domestic product growth in
the first quarter of 0.2 percent, less than the median 0.5
percent forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 50 economists.  Regional Impact  Other countries in the region have also seen their
economies slow recently. Peru expanded at the slowest pace in
more than two years in April, and  Chile ’s economic growth slowed
to 4.8 percent in the same month from 5.6 percent in the first
quarter.  The government has said rising real wages, falling interest
rates and low unemployment will continue to drive domestic
demand and accelerate economic recovery in the remainder of the
year.  Policy makers have reduced the benchmark Selic rate by 400
basis points since August, while banks cut their lending rates
to help boost economic growth that slowed to 2.7 percent last
year from 7.5 percent in 2010. The government has also cut taxes
on industrial and consumer goods, including automobiles, to
stimulate  consumer spending .  “The moment of consumption in Brazil is not over because
of the country’s pent up demand,” President  Dilma Rousseff  said
June 13.  Traders are betting the central bank will reduce the
 benchmark interest rate  to 7.5 percent by August, according to
Bloomberg estimates based on  interest rate  futures contracts.  Structural Impediments  Still, economic growth may fall short of the consensus
forecast this year on growing euro zone fears and pessimism
about structural impediments to Brazilian growth,  Tony Volpon ,
head of  emerging markets  research for the Americas at  Nomura
Holdings (NMR)  Inc., said in a research note today.  “Unfortunately, the exogenous factors hitting the economy
in the second quarter, both external and internal, are, if
anything, worse than the first quarter,” Volpon said,
forecasting 2012 growth of 1.9 percent.  In the first quarter, investments fell 1.8 percent from the
previous quarter.  Brazil this year is forecast to grow less than Russia,
India and  China , the other so-called BRIC countries, according
to an April forecast from the  International Monetary Fund .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Carla Simoes in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 