-- Boeing Courts China as Partner While Mindful of Future Jet Rival
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-15T02:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/boeing-courts-china-as-partner-while-mindful-of-future-jet-rival.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  is walking a delicate
line in China between helping nurture a customer’s aerospace
capability and preparing for its partner’s emergence as a rival,
the planemaker’s regional chief said.  A strategy of collaborating while girding for competition
emerged after senior leaders analyzed jet-development programs
worldwide, Boeing China President Marc Allen said yesterday.
China was identified as the most-formidable foe among a group
that included Canada, Russia and  Japan , he said.  Boeing’s China ventures have helped build what Allen said
is a 53 percent share of the local aviation market, the second-
biggest worldwide for new planes behind the U.S. The Asian
country is nearing the planned 2016 debut of the C919, its first
narrow-body jet, which will compete with Boeing’s 737 in the
biggest segment of the global aircraft market.  “A new competitor in the form of the C919 is OK -- it’s
actually a good thing, as it will lead us all to run faster and
sharpen ourselves,” Allen said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in Beijing. “But we also want to be a collaborator,
so we have to balance the two.”  Boeing, based in  Chicago , is the largest buyer of airplane
components and parts in China, he said, with 35 direct suppliers
and hundreds of secondary vendors. He declined to give a figure
for value of parts purchased.  The company’s China investments include a manufacturing
innovation center opening next year with Aviation Industry Corp.
of China, the nation’s biggest aerospace company. It plans a
joint research center in Beijing to study ways to pare fuel use
and emissions, and has spent $21 million to expand a composites
production center in Tianjin.  C919 Flight  The 168-seat C919, being developed by AVIC-backed
Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China, is scheduled to make its
maiden flight in 2014 and enter commercial service in 2016.
Meeting the targets would be a step that has eluded Boeing and
Airbus SAS in recent years, with the former’s 787 Dreamliner and
the latter’s A350 both suffering delays.  One way for Boeing to avoid the danger of giving away too
much intellectual property to a nascent competitor is joint
development of new products with a Chinese partner rather than
using technology the company has honed on its own, Allen said.  “We come in the spirit of co-creation,” he said.  “If we’re going to do things that involve new IP, we’ll do
them with our partners so it’s shared IP and something we’ve
already made a decision on,” he said. “In that sense we don’t
feel that there’s a risk of bringing something into the
marketplace that we’re going to lose.  Allen said Boeing has no plans to open an assembly line in
 China , as Airbus did in 2008 with a mandate to piece together
284 single-aisle planes by mid-2016 for the Chinese market.  McDonnell Douglas, which was purchased by Boeing in 1997,
opened an assembly line for its MD80 in China in the early 1990s.
That venture was shut down after fewer than 40 planes were built.  “We want to always be ahead of the curve,” Allen said.
“Being here with the production facilities we have and the
suppliers we have positions us ahead of the curve in what is one
of the fastest capability-growth markets in the world.”  --Andrea Rothman and Stephen Engle in Beijing. Editors: Ed
Dufner, James Langford  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Beijing at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Engle at   sengle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  