-- BOJ Holds Policy Before Greek Vote With Eye on Markets: Economy
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-06-15T08:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/boj-holds-off-from-extra-stimulus-as-officials-monitor-europe.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  kept the size of
its asset-purchase fund unchanged two days before a Greek
election that may determine whether  Europe ’s crisis worsens, and
said it will pay “particular” attention to global markets.  The central bank kept its asset-purchase fund at 40
trillion yen ($507 billion) and a credit lending program at 30
trillion yen, matching the forecasts of 13 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. The decision was announced in Tokyo today.  Any deepening in Europe’s turmoil risks sparking a surge in
the yen that undermines what the BOJ said today was a return to
a “moderate recovery path” for Japan. With  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
Chief Financial Officer Satoshi Ozawa calling the  exchange rate 
a “large burden” today, BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa may
come under pressure to add stimulus.  “If the European situation worsens and Greece exits the
euro, or if the  U.S. economy  slows, those things could lead to
the yen’s gains, prompting the BOJ to ease more,” said Seiji Adachi, a senior economist at Deutsche Securities Inc. in Tokyo.  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said today that the Group of 20
should send a strong message on tackling Europe’s crisis when
leaders meet in  Mexico . Greece’s election in two days looms as
the next flashpoint after Spanish bond yields surged this week.  The Japanese central bank kept its  benchmark interest rate 
between zero and 0.1 percent and the amount of monthly bond
purchases at 1.8 trillion yen. It raised its evaluation of the
economy, citing an increase in domestic demand spurred by
reconstruction spending to recover from last year’s earthquake.  Yen Gains  The yen traded at 78.96 per dollar as of 4:43 p.m. in
Tokyo, up almost 6 percent since mid-March. The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average was little changed at the 3 p.m. close and the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index added 0.6 percent as of 3:21 p.m. in Tokyo on
optimism central banks around the world will take steps to
stimulate growth.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  unveiled measures to
fight an escalation of Europe’s debt crisis yesterday, noting
that the case for more stimulus in the U.K. “is growing.” In
addition to looser policy, he said the BOE will activate a
sterling liquidity facility to aid banks, and plans to have a
form of credit easing operating within weeks to boost lending in
the economy.  “Banks are at risk of future losses from a further
downturn in the economy and exposures to the euro area,” he
said. “Not only have the euro-area problems escalated to the
point where exit for Greece and other periphery countries is the
subject of widespread speculation, but signs of a slowing in
 China ,  India , and other previously buoyant emerging economies,
such as  Brazil , are appearing daily.”  Stable Markets  Shirakawa, speaking to reporters in Tokyo after today’s
meeting, said central banks are always in close contact and
share the view that financial stability is important. He also
said  Japan ’s financial markets are the most stable among
developed nations.  In the U.S., industrial production probably cooled in May
as businesses trimmed investment plans and fewer motor vehicles
rolled off assembly lines as sales slowed, economists said
before a report due today.  Output at factories, mines and utilities increased 0.1
percent after April’s 1.1 percent advance that was the biggest
since December 2010, according to the median forecast of 79
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Another U.S. report today is projected to show consumer
sentiment declined in June. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index of confidence dropped to 77.5 from a
final May reading of 79.3, a four-year high, according to the
Bloomberg survey median.  G-20 Meeting  Spain  became the fourth member of the euro area to seek a
bailout last week.  Greece  is due to hold elections on June 17
that may determine its future in the currency zone, and leaders
of the G-20 will hold a summit in Mexico the following day.  The  International Monetary Fund  said this week that the
BOJ’s asset-buying fund could be enlarged “substantially” to
help attain the bank’s target of 1 percent inflation by the end
of 2014, as the nation seeks to shake off persistent deflation.
Purchases of assets including corporate notes and equities could
stimulate activity, the Washington-based fund said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and BNP Paribas SA say the central
bank may add to easing in July, while Morgan Stanley has
forecast more purchases of exchange-traded funds and real-estate
investment trusts.  The BOJ today made no move to address disruptions in their
shorter-date purchases of government debt, by either lengthening
the maturity of bonds they buy or shifting to other types of
assets.  Japan’s government has nominated two economists to the
central bank’s board who previously signaled support for
stimulus: Takahide Kiuchi of Nomura Securities Co. and Takehiro Sato of Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co.  The bank will review its price outlook of 0.7 percent for
the year starting in April 2013 in July. Sato forecasts a 0.3
percent decline and Kiuchi sees a rise of the same amount.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  