-- Bombardier, Miraculins, Dish, Google: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-06-15T22:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/bombardier-miraculins-dish-google-intellectual-property.html
Bombardier Recreational Products
Inc., the maker of Ski-Doo snowmobiles and Sea-Doo watercraft,
was sued for patent infringement by  Polaris Industries Inc. (PII) , a
competing maker of snowmobiles.  According to the complaint filed June 13 in federal court
in  Minnesota , a rear suspension technology used in Bombardier
snowmobiles infringes patents 7,853,285 and 8,151,923.  Polaris said it put Bombardier on notice about the alleged
patent infringement to no avail. The Medina, Minnesota-based
company said it has been harmed and has suffered monetary
damages as a result of Bombardier’s actions.  It seeks a court order barring further infringement, and
asked for awards of money damages, attorney fees, and litigation
costs. Claiming the infringement is deliberate, Polaris asked
for triple damages.  Johanne Denault, a spokeswoman for Bombardier Recreational
Products, said the company declined to comment on the
litigation.  The case is Polaris Industries Inc. v. BRP US, 0:12-01405-
ADM-SER, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota.  Miraculins Gets Chinese Patent on Cholesterol-Sampling Skin Test  Miraculins Inc. (MOM) , a Winnipeg-based biotech company, received
a Chinese patent on a technology for testing cholesterol levels
through skin samples.  According to a June 14 company statement, the patented test
is conducted by collecting skin cells from the palm of the hand
using a medical adhesive collection device. The process is non-
invasive, takes only 15 seconds to conduct and doesn’t require
the patient to fast in advance.  Miraculins said in the statement that it’s working with
Brampton, Ontario-based Gamma-Dynacare Medical Laboratories to
commercialize the test covered by the patent.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Dish Applies for Web Suffixes With Resemblance to DirecTV Name  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-largest U.S. satellite-TV
provider, applied for the Web-address suffixes “.direct” and
“.dtv” -- names that relate more closely to the brand of its
chief competitor,  DirecTV. (DTV)   A nonprofit Web-management group released a list June 13 of
1,930 applications of new Internet domain suffixes, which
companies can use to market their brands and operations. The
idea is to go beyond the typical dot-com addresses. Dish applied
for 13 of the names, with two appearing to reference its larger
rival.  Aaron Johnson , a spokesman for Englewood, Colorado-based
Dish, said the names have nothing to do with DirecTV. Dish is
applying for the suffixes to potentially attach them to
marketing, strategic and competitive services, Johnson said. He
declined to cite specific products or programs that the suffixes
may relate to.  “We see these names serving a variety of applications,”
Johnson said.  DirecTV doesn’t plan to challenge the applications, which
cost $185,000 each. El Segundo, California-based DirecTV didn’t
apply for any of the suffixes itself because the company isn’t
intending to use them, said Darris Gringeri, a spokesman.  U.S. regulators blocked a proposed merger between Dish and
DirecTV in 2002. Dish Chief Executive Officer Joseph Clayton
said last year he wouldn’t discount the possibility of a future
merger between the two companies.  Court Delays Apple China IPad Trademark Ruling for Mediation  A Chinese court will delay its decision on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
appeal of a ruling denying its ownership of the iPad trademark
in  China  to let the company pursue mediation with Proview
Technology (Shenzhen) Co.  The Higher People’s Court of Guangdong won’t release a
ruling on Apple’s Feb. 29 appeal so long as both parties
continue talking, Zhao Le, a spokesman at the court’s foreign
affairs office said in a phone interview yesterday.  Apple revenue in China tripled to $7.9 billion last
quarter, helped by surging demand for products including the
iPad tablet computer. The Cupertino, California-based company
has said it acquired rights to the iPad trademark in China from
 Proview International Holdings Ltd. (334)  in 2009. A lower court ruled
last November the agreement was invalid because Proview’s
Shenzhen-based unit owned the mark and wasn’t represented.  While a ruling on an appeal would normally be issued within
three months, the clock hasn’t been running while the two
companies are in court-sponsored mediation, said Roger Xie, a
Proview Technology lawyer.  “The mediation will continue,” Xie said in a phone
interview yesterday. “There is no specific deadline.”  Xie declined to provide details on the status of talks with
the Cupertino, California-based company. Apple spokeswoman
Carolyn Wu didn’t immediately return calls.  Apple has offered compensation to resolve the dispute,
though a “big gap” remains between the two sides, Xie said in
May.  Shares of Hong Kong-listed Proview International have been
suspended from trading since 2010.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  German Copyright Law Against Google Halts Innovation, Group Says  A proposed German law that would allow publishers to demand
fees from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and other news aggregators for displaying
their content online will stifle new technologies, the country’s 
Bitkom  industry group said.  The bill by Germany’s Justice Ministry proposes giving
publishers one year during which they have the sole rights to
commercially use their journalistic content. It is scheduled to
be discussed by  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s cabinet on July 4,
according to a ministry official.  “It’s entirely unclear what effects this  intellectual
property  right will have from an economic and social point of
view,” Bitkom, which represents companies including Google and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , said in a statement yesterday. “The danger is
that search engines will no longer list results from press sites
or add the teasers that users have got used to.”  The bill pits website operators such as Google, Microsoft
and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  against  Axel Springer AG (SPR)  and Bertelsmann AG,
which are among German publishers trying to find ways to
monetize content online. Google, owner of the world’s most-used
search engine, argues that publishers benefit from its news
aggregation, with its Google News alone channeling 1 billion
page visits to them every month, according to Google spokesman
Kay Oberbeck.  Google offers newspapers the choice of opting out of
inclusion in a Google News search.  “It’s an existential question for our business model,”
Axel Springer Chief Executive Officer Mathias Doepfner said in
March. “It’s not about creating a ‘Lex Google.’ What matters is
that a large player should pay for marketing content from
publishers, and that goes for everyone.”  Claus-Peter Schrack, a spokesman for Bertelsmann’s Gruner +
Jahr unit, Europe’s biggest magazine publisher, said “the need
for protection for producers of digital press is at least as
high” as for makers and distributors of audio and video
content.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , last year
removed some Belgian newspaper content from its search engine
after an appeals court upheld a 2007 ruling granted in favor of
newspaper association Copiepresse, forcing Google to remove
links and snippets of articles from Google.com and Google.be.  Google later agreed to restore French- and German-language
newspapers in  Belgium  to search results without displaying the
papers’ full articles.  Widow of Painter Earl Biss Sues Art Dealer, 10 Galleries  The widow of a Native American artist sued 10 art galleries
and art dealer Paul Zeuger for copyright infringement.  Lou Lou Goss, widow of the painter  Earl Biss , said Zeuger
and the 10 galleries in Colorado and  New Mexico  are selling
unauthorized copies of her late husband’s work.  Biss , who was a member of the Crow Nation, graduated from
the Institute of Indian Arts and also studied at the San
Francisco Art Institute. His work, which features Western and
Native American themes, is  offered on the artbrokerage.com
website  for prices ranging from $4,500 to $68,800.  Zeuger had access to the artist’s original work through
purchase or consignment, according to the complaint filed May 31
in federal court in Denver.  Goss said she’s suffered losses and claims Zeuger and the
galleries have realized more than $3 million in profits from the
unauthorized sale of her late husband’s work. She is the holder
of the copyrights for the Biss work, she said.  She asked the court to bar further infringement of the
work, and seeks a court declaration that the copyrights belong
to her. She also asks for seizure of all unauthorized copies of
the work, and for money damages of not less than $150,000 per
infringement.  Goss also requested that extra damages be levied to punish
the defendants for their actions and she seeks awards of
attorney fees and litigation costs.  Zeuger’s  Galerie Zeuger  didn’t respond immediately to an e-
mailed request for comment.  The case is Lou Lou Goss v. Paul Zeuger, 1:12-cv-01424-DME-
BNB, U.S. District Court, District of Colorado (Denver).  3M Donates Library Technology Protocol to Standards Group  3M Co.’s Library Systems unit has donated the intellectual
property related to a protocol for a library technology to the
National Information Standards Organization, according to a
company statement.  The standard was developed by  St. Paul , Minnesota-based 3M
to provide a common communication language to drive the adoption
of self-service systems for libraries.  The donation of the standard to Baltimore-based NISO will
provide opportunities for its enhancement with input from
libraries, developers and interested parties, 3M said. Further
development of the standard will be “done in a more
independent, community environment which NISO provides,” Skip
Driessen, global business manager for 3M library systems, said
in the statement.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 