-- Brazil Fine Cup Coffee Discount Narrows on Harvest Delay
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-06-15T10:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/brazil-fine-cup-coffee-discount-narrows-on-harvest-delay.html
Buyers of fine coffee from  Brazil ,
the world’s largest producer, are getting a smaller discount as
rains delay harvesting and threaten quality.  Fine cup beans for July and August shipment were at a
discount of 11 cents a pound to the price on the ICE Futures
U.S. exchange in  New York , according to Rio de Janeiro-based
broker Flavour Coffee. That compares with a discount of 12 cents
last week, data from the broker show.  Above-average rains in May and at the beginning of this
month have delayed the start of the arabica beans harvest. About
10 percent of the beans have been picked in southern  Minas
Gerais , the biggest growing state for the arabica variety, and
20 percent in Zona da Mata, Flavour Coffee said in a weekly
report e-mailed yesterday.  The discount for fine cup beans “narrowed this week
especially for July and August shipments,” the broker said.
Arabica coffee from the new season won’t be ready for sale
before July, as the beans still need to be cleaned and dried,
according to the report.  More rain is forecast to reach coffee areas next week after
dry weather in recent days, Flavour Coffee said. Above-average
temperatures have accelerated the maturation of cherries that
contain the beans, according to the broker.  “Some cherries are even over-mature, which may cause some
cup quality damage if rains fall before it has been picked,”
the broker said.  Good Cup  Buyers of good cup quality beans are getting a discount of
18 cents a pound to the exchange price for July and August
shipment, up from 15 cents a pound last week, according to the
report. Fine cup beans are usually more expensive than good cup
ones because of their taste profile.  Conillons, as Brazilian robusta coffee is known, was
trading at a premium of 3 cents a pound ($66 a metric ton) to
the price on the NYSE Liffe exchange in  London , unchanged from
last week, Flavour Coffee data showed.  “The present market behavior continues to surprise traders
who expected some selling pressure at this point of the
harvest,” the broker said. “Offers continue with premiums over
Liffe attracting no buyers at all.”  Robusta coffee for September delivery rose 0.6 percent to
$2,116 a ton by 10:14 a.m. in London. Arabica coffee for
September delivery was up 1.2 percent at $1.528 a pound in New
York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 