-- Brazil’s BTG Buys Colombia Brokerage in ’Last’ Latin Acquisition
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-06-15T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/brazil-s-btg-buys-colombia-brokerage-in-last-latin-acquisition.html
Banco BTG Pactual SA (BBTG11) , the Brazilian
investment bank led by billionaire  Andre Esteves , agreed
yesterday to acquire Bolsa y Renta SA, Colombia’s biggest
brokerage by trading volume, for $52 million.  “This is the last acquisition we will do in  Latin America ,
the rest will be organic growth,” Chief Operating Officer
Roberto Sallouti said in a telephone interview. BTG also plans
to seek a bank license in Chile, he said. “We are not planning
to buy any other company in Mexico or Latin America.”  The move culminates a push by the Sao Paulo-based bank to
expand beyond Brazil’s borders and become a leading investment
bank in Latin America. BTG agreed in February to buy Santiago-
based Celfin Capital SA for $486 million. Celfin is  Chile ’s
biggest brokerage and the third-biggest in  Peru , Sallouti said.  With the acquisition of Bolsa y Renta, which is subject to
regulatory approval in Brazil and Colombia, BTG aims to bring to
Colombia all the lines of business it has in Brazil, including
investment banking services. Celfin, which has a Colombian
brokerage that focuses on international clients, is a “perfect
combination” with Bolsa y Renta, which has mainly local clients,
Sallouti said.  Bolsa y Renta’s shareholders will also receive a 0.25
percent stake in Banco BTG Pactual and its private equity arm
BTG Investments LP.  In April, BTG hired Javier Artigas, former chief of
strategic planning at Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB, the Mexican
stock exchange operator, to lead the bank’s operations there.  Bolsa y Renta has $2.57 billion of wealth management assets
and $874 million of assets under management. BTG has 130.3
billion reais ($63.4 billion) of assets under management and has
42 billion reais off wealth management assets.  BTG went public in April and raised 3.66 billion reais in
the biggest initial public offering for an investment bank in
two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  