-- Italian Bonds Rise 2nd Day on Global Action Speculation
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-06-15T15:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/bunds-head-for-biggest-drop-in-3-months-as-crisis-bill-mounts.html
Italian bonds climbed, trimming a
weekly decline, amid speculation global policy makers will take
coordinated action to combat the risks from  Europe ’s debt crisis
as Greek elections threatened to amplify market turmoil.  German bunds advanced after data showed industrial
production in the U.S. unexpectedly fell in May.  Greece ’s bonds
rose as the nation prepared for a ballot in two days that will
turn on whether voters accept austerity measures to stay in the
euro. Spain’s bonds slid for a sixth day, and the nation’s  10-
year yields  headed for the biggest weekly increase since the
start of the euro in 1999.  There’s “little choice left for policy makers but to act
if they wish to maintain stability should the worst-case
scenario of a Greek exit from the euro materialize and funding
markets for  Spain  and  Italy  shut,” said  Brian Barry , an analyst
at Investec Bank Plc in London.  Italy’s 10-year yield fell 17 basis points, or 0.17
percentage point, to 5.96 percent at 4:21 p.m. London time after
rising to 6.34 percent yesterday, the highest since Jan. 20. The
5.5 percent bond due in September 2022 climbed 1.245, or 12.45
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,263) face amount, to 97.165. That pared
the increase for the week to 19 basis points.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said today there are no
inflation risks in the 17-nation euro area and vowed the central
bank will continue providing liquidity to solvent lenders.  Bank
of England  GovernorMervyn King late yesterday announced a
program that will allow banks to swap assets with the central
bank in return for money to be loaned to companies and
households.  ‘Coordinated Response’  “We’ve got more fear of central bank action, with the Bank
of England having prepared for their next phase of easing,”
said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “It’s all
enough to scare the markets into thinking there might be a
coordinated response.”  The rate on Greece’s 2 percent bond maturing in February
2023 fell 145 basis points to 27.11 percent, with the nation’s
election in two days set to provide the next flashpoint for
investors as Europe’s debt crisis roils financial markets,  Spanish 10-year yields were little changed at 6.90 percent,
set for a 69 basis-point increase on the week, the biggest since
the common currency was established.  German  10-year yields  fell four basis points to 1.45
percent, having risen 12 basis points this week. The rate
reached a record low 1.127 percent on June 1.  Bunds Selloff  Bunds underperformed most of their euro-region counterparts
amid concern that  Germany  will need to increase borrowing to
support its struggling neighbors. A report today showed euro-
area exports declined for a second month in April, adding to
signs of weakness in the 17-nation economy.  “There’s been a significant selloff in bunds as investors
have realized that Germany is going to have to come to the
rescue,” said Craig Veysey, London-based head of fixed income
at Principal Investment Management, part of Sanlam Group, which
manages $72 billion.  “There’s going to be a huge transfer of taxpayer money
going into Greece and might also have to be used to help out the
likes of Spain and perhaps even Italy further down the road,”
Veysey said in an interview with  Mark Barton  on Bloomberg
Television’s “Countdown.”  Exports Drop  Exports from the common-currency bloc fell a seasonally
adjusted 1.3 percent from March, when they dropped 1 percent,
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.  U.S. output at factories, mines and utilities decreased 0.1
percent last month after a revised 1 percent gain in April, the
 Federal Reserve  reported today in  Washington . Economists
forecast a 0.1 percent advance, according to the Bloomberg News
survey median.  Volatility on Austrian bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets, according to measures of 10-year debt, the spread
between two- and 10-year securities and credit-default swaps.  German debt has handed investors a loss of 2 percent this
month, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
securities have lost 1.1 percent, and Italian bonds declined 0.9
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  