-- California Budget Heads Toward Deal as Deadline Looms
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-06-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/california-budget-heads-toward-deal-as-deadline-looms.html
California’s Democratic-controlled
Legislature is set to adopt a $92 billion budget, the largest
state spending plan in the U.S., as Republicans threatened to
walk out saying they weren’t given enough time to review a
flurry of last-minute bills.  Governor  Jerry Brown , 74, and his fellow Democrats remained
about $200 million apart yesterday in negotiations to cut
welfare and other programs for the poor to help close a $15.7
billion  deficit , said Senate President Darrell Steinberg.  “A couple of hundred million dollars may seem easy, but
they’re not just numbers on paper,” Steinberg said outside his
Capitol office a day before the budget deadline. “They’re real
lives.”  The cornerstone of the plan is a November ballot initiative
being pushed by Brown that would temporarily boost income taxes
on top earners to the highest in the nation, and raise state
sales levies that already exceed all others. If the measure
fails, the budget will be slashed $6 billion, mostly from
schools.  The spending plan consists of a package of 11 bills.
Democrats said they intend to approve the main budget bills, and
any auxiliary bills that aren’t in contention, by the
constitutional deadline today, and take up the rest later.  By passing the core budget measures, Steinberg said the
Legislature will have met their obligation to adopt a budget on
time. A 2010 voter-approved initiative strips lawmakers of their
pay for each day they are late.  Simple Majority  That same ballot initiative also lowered the vote threshold
to pass a spending plan to a simple majority from two-thirds.
The provision makes it possible for Democrats, who hold
majorities in both chambers, to pass a budget without any
Republican votes.  Republicans boycotted yesterday’s Senate Budget and Fiscal
Review Committee hearing, saying they hadn’t been given enough
time to review the bills before they were brought up for a vote.  “The people of  California  deserve to see the majority
budget plan before it is enacted,” said Senate Republican
Leader Bob Huff of Diamond Bar. “Budgets thrown together in the
middle of the night are one of the main reasons why California
is facing deficits today.”  Four Republican senators yesterday sent letters to
Controller John Chiang and Treasurer Bill Lockyer -- both
Democrats -- asking that they officially review the budget
proposal and verify that it’s balanced.  Question of Balance  Legislative leaders sued Chiang after he asserted that last
year’s budget, while adopted by the deadline, wasn’t balanced,
and docked their pay. A court later said he didn’t have the
authority to impose his judgment on whether a budget is
balanced.  An agreement today would mark only the fifth on-time budget
in three decades. That, along with Brown’s support for increased
revenue and a “balanced, honest” approach, should be viewed
with favor by  Standard & Poor’s , said Senator Mark Leno, a San
Francisco Democrat who heads the budget committee.  “A number of important factors should positively impact
the  ratings agencies ,” Leno said yesterday in an interview.  The wold’s ninth-biggest economy is rated A- by Standard &
Poor’s, six levels below AAA and the lowest of any state. The
yield penalty on California issuers relative to top-rated bonds
rose as much as 16 percent in the past month, the steepest jump
since March, Bloomberg Fair Value data show. S&P raised its
outlook to positive in February.  Fewer Hours  Brown’s budget counts on reducing state employee costs by 5
percent, mainly by cutting workers’ hours. While the savings are
written into the plan, unions still must agree to the change.  Brown also wants to slice $1.2 billion from health-care for
the poor, $1.1 billion from welfare and in-home help for the
elderly and disabled, and $500 million from courts.  Democrats in the Legislature built a $544 million rainy day
reserve into the budget, about half of what Brown proposed. They
would reduce education funding by $330 million by using a
different method of calculating how much schools are due and
take $250 million more than Brown from tax money that formerly
flowed to the state’s now-abolished redevelopment agencies.  Brown spokesman  Gil Duran  had little to say yesterday about
the Democrats’ package except that talks were continuing.  The major sticking point between Democrats and Brown is
cuts to the state welfare-to-work program after Legislators and
Brown reached a tentative accord on the level of cuts to the
state’s program that provides in-home care to senior citizens,
Steinberg said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  