-- California Lawmakers Pass $92 Billion Spending Measure
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-06-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/california-senate-approves-92-billion-budget-bill.html
California ’s Democratic-controlled
Legislature passed a $92 billion budget on deadline, allowing
lawmakers to be paid even though they put off votes on
supporting measures needed to implement the plan.  The bill, passed without a single Republican vote, relies
on a November ballot initiative that would boost income taxes on
top earners to the highest in the nation and raise the state
sales levy, which already exceeds all others. If voters reject
the increases, the budget calls for $6 billion in reductions,
mostly from schools.  “The financial picture looks better for California than it
did a year ago or two years ago,” Eric Friedland of Schroder
Investment Management North America, which oversees about $2
billion in muni debt, said after yesterday’s vote. “The fact
that they were able to pass a budget on time or ahead of time
this year is certainly a credit positive.”  Governor  Jerry Brown  and his fellow Democrats are still at
odds over the level of cuts he proposed in welfare and other
programs for the poor to help erase a $15.7 billion deficit.
Those cuts were among the bills not taken up on deadline.  “We’re still not there yet,” said  Gil Duran , a spokesman
for the governor.  Brown hasn’t said whether he’ll sign or reject the measure.
He vetoed the first version of last year’s budget, forcing
lawmakers to make changes. The constitution gives Brown until
July 1 to sign a spending plan.  ‘Smoke and Mirrors’  The budget measure is a “smoke-and-mirrors, gimmick-filled
fraud,” Republican Senator Tom Berryhill said. “It is a train
wreck waiting to happen.”  Treasurer Bill Lockyer, a Democrat, called the budget
“financeable.”  “My office would be able to go to the market and complete
the borrowing needed to meet the state’s FY 2012-13 cash flow
needs, currently estimated at $10 billion,” Lockyer said in
response to Republicans who asked whether the budget was
balanced.  Legislative leaders said passage of the main spending bill
permitted lawmakers to continue being paid. After years of
delays, voters in 2010 stripped legislators of their pay for
every day they missed the June 15 budget deadline.  That measure also lowered the vote threshold to pass a
spending plan to a simple majority from two-thirds. The change
made it possible for Democrats, who hold majorities in both the
Senate and the Assembly, to pass the plan without Republicans.  “They don’t want to get dinged for their paychecks and
they realize they have to turn something in today,” said Jaime Regalado, emeritus professor of political science at  California
State University ,  Los Angeles . “Their reasoning is that it’s
better to do something that they can then wash their hands of,
at least temporarily.”  Lowest Rated  The world’s ninth-biggest economy is rated A- by  Standard &
Poor’s , six levels below AAA and the lowest of any state. The
yield penalty on California issuers relative to top-rated bonds
rose as much as 16 percent in the past month, the steepest jump
since March, Bloomberg Fair Value data show. S&P raised its
outlook to positive in February.  The relative smoothness of the budgeting process is likely
to prevent yields on California bonds from widening much
relative to U.S. Treasuries, said Alan Schankel, a managing
director at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  “The past year’s events have instilled some confidence,”
Schankel said by telephone, referring to California’s finances.
“Certainly the revenue overshoot was frustrating, but that
happened in several states.”  Brown’s deficit ballooned almost 70 percent since January
because he overestimated how much tax revenue the most indebted
state would collect.  The governor’s budget counts on reducing state employee
costs by 5 percent, mainly by cutting workers’ hours. While the
savings are written into the plan, unions still must agree to
the change.  Brown also wants to slice $1.2 billion from health care for
the poor, $1.1 billion from welfare and in-home help for the
elderly and disabled, and $500 million from courts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  