-- Canadian Dollar Appreciates Versus U.S. Peer Before Greeks Vote
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-06-15T21:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/canadian-dollar-trades-at-almost-1-week-high-on-stimulus-wagers.html
Canada ’s dollar gained against its
U.S. counterpart as traders squared positions before Greek
elections in two days that may foreshadow the first exit from
the 17-nation currency union.  The currency declined against 10 of its 16 major peers on
concern crude oil will fall below $80 a barrel, even as stocks
rose on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will initiate a third
round of quantitative easing. Canada’s dollar extended a loss
after Statistics Canada said  factory sales  fell for the third
time in four months.  “Investors are really waiting to see what happens over the
weekend,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit, said by e-mail. “Our view
is that uncertainty persists beyond Sunday, event risk is
significant and the Fed disappoints those looking for easing
next week. The  U.S. dollar  should recover.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, rose 0.1 percent to C$1.0217 per
U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after falling as much as 0.3
percent. One Canadian dollar buys 97.88 cents. It posted a 0.5
percent gain against the greenback over the past five days.  The benchmark 10-year yield dropped eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage point, to 1.72 percent today. The  yield dropped 
to 1.615 percent on June 1, the lowest since at least 1950,
according to Bloomberg and  Bank of Canada  data. Economists are
reducing forecasts for Canadian 10-year bond yields by the most
since September on speculation the government’s comparatively
small deficit makes the debt attractive amid an unresolved
 European debt crisis .  Greek Exit  Yields on Canada’s 2.75 percent bonds due in June 2022 will
end 2012 at 2.15 percent, according to the median of 16
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down 45 basis points
from the May prediction and the biggest quarterly forecast cut
since September. Economists in a separate survey predict the
U.S. 10-year  yield  will rise to 2.17 percent by year-end from
1.58 percent today.  Traders are increasing bets the threat of a Greek exit from
the euro will lead the Bank of Canada to reduce  interest rates 
from the current 1 percent. The yield on September 2012 bankers’
acceptances contracts fell to 1.13 percent, the lowest level
since June 1. So-called Bax contracts have settled an average of
about 20 basis points above the central bank’s target rate since
1992, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Investors are pricing in as many as 19 basis points of
central-bank easing by December. There’s a 60 percent chance of
a cut of at least one quarter-percentage point this year,
according to Bloomberg calculations on overnight index swaps.  ‘Creeping Back’  “We have some fear creeping back into the market ahead of
the weekend’s Greek elections,”  David Love , a trader of
interest-rate derivatives in  Montreal  at Le Groupe Jitney Inc.,
a brokerage, said in an e-mail. He said the December Bax
contract “broke out of a pennant formation,” indicating the
yield may move to recent lows. A pennant is formed when
ascending and descending trend lines intersect to create a
triangle.  Futures on crude oil fell 0.3 percent to $84.18 a barrel in
 New York  after dropping to $81.07 on June 12, the lowest since
October. Canada is the largest supplier of crude to the U.S.,
the world’s biggest consumer.  “Oil is basing at around the $80 level,”  Sebastien Galy ,
a senior foreign-exchange strategist at  Societe Generale  SA,
said by phone from New York. “People are afraid it’s going to
break lower on the China-India slowdown. There’s also some
concern over the economic data which may be showing signs of a
slowdown.”  Factory Sales  Declining aerospace equipment and energy production pushed
factory sales down 0.8 percent to C$49.1 billion ($48 billion)
after a 1.9 percent gain in March,  Statistics Canada  said today
in Ottawa. The decline was weaker than all 20 estimates in a
Bloomberg economist survey that had a median 0.2 percent gain
forecast.  The Canadian currency reached C$1.0216 today, the strongest
since June 11, before elections in  Greece  on June 17 on
speculation central banks will engineer coordinated stimulus
measures to ease financial turmoil in financial markets.  “An outcome in favor of the austerity measures is the most
probable,” Societe Generale’s Galy said of the election. “That
should be relatively positive for risky assets.”  The Canadian dollar dropped 0.9 percent this week,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, the second-
worst performer after the greenback, which fell 1.3 percent.  New
Zealand ’s dollar led gainers at 1.2 percent. The euro declined
0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  