-- Canada April Manufacturing Sales Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-06-15T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/canada-april-manufacturing-sales-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s manufacturing shipments report for April released
by  Statistics Canada .  Manufacturing sales fell 0.8% in April to $49.1 billion,
the third decline in four months. The aerospace product and
parts industry and the petroleum and coal product industry
posted the largest decreases, while sales of motor vehicles
rose to the highest level since November 2007.  Sales fell in 13 of 21 industries, representing
approximately 45% of the manufacturing sector. Sales of
durable goods decreased 0.7%, while non-durable goods sales
declined 1.0%.  Constant dollar sales declined 0.6% in April, reflecting
a reduced volume of manufactured goods sold. This was also
the third drop in four months.  Sales in aerospace and petroleum decline while they increase
in motor vehicles  Production in the aerospace product and parts industry
dropped 33.7% in April to $898 million, following strong
gains in February and March.  Sales of petroleum and coal products were down 4.9% to
$7.1 billion. This was the first decline after three months
of increases. The decline was volume-based, as there were
temporary shutdowns at some refineries and prices of
petroleum and coal products rose 0.5%.  Fabricated metal product producers reported a 4.4%
decline in sales to $2.9 billion, reflecting reduced sales in
other fabricated metal product manufacturing and
architectural and structural metals manufacturing.  Conversely, motor vehicle assembly sales increased 9.0%
to $4.5 billion. This was the 9th increase in 10 months for
the industry. Sales were at their highest level since
November 2007.  Some similarities between Canada and the United States  In the  United States , where manufacturing sales are
referred to as shipments, sales fell 0.3% according to the
United States Census Bureau. The decrease in April followed
four consecutive months of increases. Shipments in the
petroleum and coal products industry were down 4.4%,
mirroring the decrease in Canada. This was the largest
decline in the industry since July 2009. A 3.1% increase in
the transportation equipment industry, reflecting gains in
motor vehicle manufacturing, partially offset the decrease.  Largest sales decrease in Quebec  Sales declined in seven provinces in April, with  Quebec 
posting the largest decrease in dollar terms.  Sales in Quebec declined 3.8% to $11.3 billion,
following two consecutive months of gains. A 45.6% drop in
production in the aerospace product and parts industry was
largely responsible for the provincial decrease. Lower sales
reported in the fabricated metal products (-5.3%) industry
also contributed to the overall decline.  In  New Brunswick , sales dropped 17.7% to $1.5 billion,
following a 22.4% gain in March. Declines in April were
mainly attributable to the non-durable goods industries.  Manufacturing in Alberta was down 1.9% to $6.3 billion,
partly reflecting lower sales in the fabricated metal
products industry.  An increase in sales in Ontario partially offset the
overall declines. Sales advanced 2.4% to $22.9 billion,
reflecting a 9.8% rise in motor vehicle assembly sales. Motor
vehicle assembly sales have increased in 9 of the last 10
months. Sales increases also occurred in the chemical (+4.2%)
and petroleum and coal products (+3.4%) industries.  Inventory levels rise  Inventories rose 1.0% in April to $65.0 billion dollars,
the first increase in three months. Gains were reported in 13
of 21 industries, and they were mostly concentrated in
inventories of durable goods.  Inventory levels in the  transportation industry  advanced
3.2% to $9.5 billion, largely reflecting a 5.1% increase in
the aerospace product and parts industry. The gains in
aerospace product and parts were responsible for over one-
third of the rise in manufacturing inventories.  An increase in inventories for the machinery industry
(+2.4%) also contributed to the overall advance. Inventories
of machinery have increased in 9 of the last 12 months and
reached a record level of $6.8 billion in April, partly
reflecting growth in mining and oil and gas field equipment
machinery.  The inventory-to-sales ratio advanced to 1.32 in April
from 1.30 in March. The inventory-to-sales ratio is a measure
of the time, in months, that would be required to exhaust
inventories if sales were to remain at their current level.  Unfilled orders unchanged  Unfilled orders remained at $62.6 billion in April,
following a 2.1% advance in March. Excluding the aerospace
product and parts industry, unfilled orders rose 0.6%.  A 1.1% decline in unfilled orders for the transportation
equipment industry partly reflected a decrease in aerospace
product and parts (-0.5%). Increases in the fabricated metals
(+2.9%), machinery (+1.1%) and computer and electronic
products (+2.9%) industries largely offset the decrease in
transportation equipment. This was the third consecutive
increase in unfilled orders for both machinery and fabricated
metals and the highest level on record for these industries.  New orders fell 3.2% to $49.1 billion in April, mostly
reflecting a drop in the aerospace product and parts industry.
The petroleum and coal products industry and the machinery
industry also reported decreases. The declines were partly
offset by an increase in new orders for motor vehicles and
motor vehicle parts.  Note to readers  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted and are
expressed in current dollars unless otherwise specified.  Preliminary data are provided for the current reference
month. Revised data, based on late responses, are updated for
the three previous months.  Non-durable goods industries include food, beverage and
tobacco products, textile mills, textile product mills,
clothing, leather and allied products, paper, printing and
related support activities, petroleum and coal products,
chemicals, and plastics and rubber products.  Durable goods industries include wood products, non-
metallic mineral products, primary metal, fabricated metal
products, machinery, computer and electronic products,
electrical equipment, appliances and components,
transportation equipment, furniture and related products and
miscellaneous manufacturing.  Production-based industries  For the  aerospace industry  and shipbuilding industries,
the value of production is used instead of sales of goods
manufactured. This value is calculated by adjusting monthly
sales of goods manufactured by the monthly change in
inventories of goods in process and finished products
manufactured.  Unfilled orders are a stock of orders that will
contribute to future sales assuming that the orders are not
cancelled.  New orders are those received whether sold in the
current month or not. New orders are measured as the sum of
sales for the current month plus the change in unfilled
orders from the previous month to the current month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  