-- Hurricane Carlotta Becomes Category 2 Storm
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-06-16T00:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/carlotta-becomes-category-1-hurricane-on-path-to-mexico-coast.html
The center of Tropical Storm
Carlotta, the second hurricane of the Eastern Pacific season,
was 10 miles (16 kilometers) southwest of  Mexico ’s Puerto Angel
shortly before 8 p.m. East Coast time, the U.S. National
Hurricane Center said.  Carlotta, a Category 2 storm with winds of 105 miles (169
kilometers) per hour, up from 70 mph early today, will move
along the southern coast of Mexico between Puerto Angel and
Acapulco tonight and tomorrow, the center said in an  advisory .
The system is traveling northwest at 12 mph, the advisory shows.  The hurricane is expected to weaken as its center moves
across the coast, disrupted by the mountainous landscape. The
hurricane center forecasts a dangerous storm surge and as much
as 15 inches (38 centimeters) of rain that may cause flash-
floods and mudslides.  “Those winds buffeting the coast for an extensive period
of time this weekend can cause some major beach erosion and
major property damage,” Chad Merrill, a meteorologist for
WeatherBug in Germantown,  Maryland , said by telephone.  The government of Mexico issued a  hurricane warning  for the
Pacific Coast from Salina Cruz to Acapulco. A watch was posted
for Salina Cruz east to Barra de Tonala and for the area west of
Acapulco to Tecpan de Galeana, according to the NHC.  Possible Path  The  hurricane center’s tracking map  shows the storm at the
coastline by early tomorrow, then weakening to a tropical storm
the following day south of Acapulco. It may then turn around and
wallow along the shore as a tropical depression until mid-week.  AccuWeather Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania, said it’s
possible that as the storm breaks up, remnants could cross
Mexico and emerge in the Bay of Campeche, where they could
strengthen.  Jeff Masters , co-founder of  Weather Underground  in
 Ann Arbor ,  Michigan , called that scenario “unlikely.”  The Quinta Real hotel in Acapulco was greeting guests with
complimentary umbrellas, Jesus Vasquez, the front desk manager,
said by telephone. The resort is prepared to offer amenities
should it receive weather-related complaints, he said.  “We could send them a bottle of wine, or if they have
children, we could send them some cookies,” Vasquez said.  More than 100  temporary shelters  have been opened in the
city as the storm approaches, according to a statement from the
Acapulco Destination Marketing Office.  At The Beach  “We’re informing our guests about the storm,” America
Anguiano, a spokeswoman for Fairmont Hotels & Resorts Inc.’s two
hotels in Acapulco, said by telephone at about 6:30 p.m.  New
York  time. “But I’m speaking from a balcony at one of the
hotels now, and I’m watching people at the beach. The sun is not
gone. It has stayed.”  Fairmont is allowing guests to cancel reservations for the
weekend due to the storm, while encouraging them to reschedule
for next weekend instead, Anguiano said.  Carlotta’s hurricane force-winds extend 30 miles from the
center and tropical storm-force winds reach out 105 miles, the
center said.  “A dangerous  storm surge  is expected to produce
significant coastal flooding,” according to the advisory. “The
surge will be accompanied by large and destructive waves.”  The hurricane center is also monitoring two other systems.
A low-pressure area over the northeastern  Gulf of Mexico , moving
slowly westward, has diminished since earlier today, the center
said. It has zero chance of becoming a tropical system in the
next 48 hours.  A cluster of thunderstorms in the Eastern Pacific is about
550 miles southwest of Manzanillo, Mexico. It has a 10 percent
change of tropical development as it moves north or northwest,
the NHC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  