-- CBS Tentatively Loses Bid to Stop ‘Glass House’ Show
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-06-15T19:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/cbs-tentatively-loses-bid-to-stop-glass-house-show.html
A judge tentatively denied a  CBS
Corp. (CBS)  bid to halt “The Glass House,” an ABC network reality
television show set to premiere June 18, while the networks
fight over whether it’s a copy of CBS’s “Big Brother.”  U.S. District Judge Gary Feess in Los Angeles said today
that he wasn’t convinced that CBS would prevail in its copyright
suit. The harm to ABC and the people working on “Glass House”
caused by blocking the show would outweigh the harm to CBS from
allowing it to air, he said.  “The closer you get to nonfiction, the more difficult a
copyrights case gets,” the judge said. “There are cases where
the protection is quite limited.”  Feess didn’t issue a final decision in making an oral
ruling. He said he’s unlikely to change his mind in writing a
decision later.  CBS, based in  New York , last month sued  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s
ABC, alleging “The Glass House” infringes on its reality
series, in which a group of contestants spend months secluded in
a house, evicting one another on camera.  Two former supervising producers and a former co-executive
producer of “Big Brother” plus 16 other ex-producers and
series staff are working on “Glass House” and have disclosed
CBS  trade secrets  and confidential information in violation of
nondisclosure agreements. CBS said in its complaint.  All Copied  Scott A. Edelman, a lawyer for CBS, told the court it’s the
first time a reality show has been copied “lock, stock and
barrel,” with only tweaks around the edges. The question before
the judge was whether to extend copyright protection to reality
shows, he said.  “We’re grateful the court is considering the issues as
careful as it is,” Edelman said after the hearing.  ABC said in a June 11 filing that the alleged similarities
between “Big Brother” and “Glass House” are “generic
staples of the reality show genre” and can’t be protected under
copyright law. ABC said there is no “secret sauce” in “Big
Brother’s” production process.  An ABC lawyer, Glenn D. Pomerantz, said at the hearing that
the format of  “The Glass House,”  which involves significant
audience participation, is different from that of  “Big
Brother.”  CBS’s list of similarities between the shows was
random and the same allegations could be made about other pairs
of reality shows, such as “ American Idol ” and “The Voice” or
“So You Think You Can Dance” and “Dancing with the Stars,”
Pomerantz said.  Pomerantz declined to comment on the judge’s tentative
ruling after the hearing.  Plan to Fight  “We fully intend to proceed with our claims against
Disney/ABC for copyright infringement and misappropriation of
trade secrets over ‘The Glass House,’ which may still warrant
more injunction proceedings depending on the content of each
episode,” CBS said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is CBS v. ABC, 12-4073, U.S. District Court,
Central District of  California  ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles federal court
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 