-- McConnell Says Democrats Trying to ‘Silence’ Opponents
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-06-15T19:39:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/mcconnell-says-democrats-trying-to-silence-opponents.html
The U.S. Senate’s top Republican
accused President Barack Obama and congressional Democrats of
trying to restrict opponents’ political speech.  In a speech today at the  American Enterprise Institute ,
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  said the Obama
administration has shown “an alarming willingness itself to use
the powers of government to silence” political speech of groups
with which it disagrees.  “It is critically important for all conservatives -- and
indeed all Americans -- to stand up and unite in defense of the
freedom to organize around the causes we believe in, and against
any effort that would constrain our ability to do so,”
McConnell said in the speech at AEI,  a Washington group that
says it supports free enterprise.  White House spokesman  Eric Schultz  didn’t respond to
requests for comment on McConnell’s speech.  McConnell, long an opponent of restrictions on political
contributions, cited a Democratic proposal to require
corporations and unions to disclose their spending on political
advertising.  Democrats say the measure is needed to identify the source
of millions of dollars in political spending. Groups keeping
their donors secret spent $138 million in the 2010 midterm
elections compared with $1.3 million in the 2006 midterm vote,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics, which tracks
campaign contributions.  ‘More Dangerous’  McConnell said the Democratic measure would require
“government-compelled disclosure of contributions to all
grassroots groups, which is far more dangerous than its
proponents are willing to admit.”  “This is nothing less than an effort by the government
itself to expose its critics to harassment and intimidation,
either by government authorities or through third-party
allies,” McConnell said.  Democrats proposed the disclosure measure, which has the
backing of President  Barack Obama , in response to a U.S. Supreme
Court decision in 2010 that overturned a decades-old ban on
companies using their general funds to run campaign ads
supporting or opposing federal candidates.  The ruling led to the rise of political organizations known
as super-PACs, which can raise unlimited money from any source.
A number of super-PACs have formed to influence the 2012
presidential and congressional races.  ‘Twisted Logic'  Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the chief sponsor of
the Democratic disclosure measure, in a statement today called
McConnell’s speech “an exercise in twisted logic and double-
speak.”  He said McConnell “has gone from being the greatest
champion of disclosure to being its foremost opponent.”  The House passed the disclosure measure in 2010 when
Democrats controlled the chamber. The legislation didn’t advance
in the Senate, where all of the chamber’s Republicans opposed
it.  Schumer held a hearing in March on a scaled-back version of
the legislation and has said he may seek another vote on it
before the November election.  McConnell singled out the  Internal Revenue Service  for
criticism.  Draw ’Attention’  “Earlier this year, dozens of Tea Party-affiliated groups
across the country learned what it was like to draw the
attention of the speech police when they received a lengthy
questionnaire from the IRS demanding attendance lists, meeting
transcripts, and donor information,” he said.  The IRS has repeatedly denied that it selects groups for
scrutiny based on their political views.  IRS Commissioner  Douglas Shulman  said March 21 the Tea
Party groups had applied for nonprofit status and could have
operated as nonprofits without seeking IRS approval first.  “There’s many safeguards built in so this has nothing to
do with election cycles and politics,” he told a U.S. House
Appropriations subcommittee. “This notion that we’re targeting
anyone is off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  