-- LCD Makers May Enter Thin-Film Solar Market, Manz Says
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2012-06-15T16:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/lcd-makers-may-enter-thin-film-solar-market-manz-says.html
LCD panel makers including Samsung
Electronics Co.,  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  and Foxconn Technology Co.
may convert factories to produce thin-film solar panels when
demand more than triples for electricity produced from sunlight,
 Manz AG (M5Z)  said.  The companies can introduce thin-film technology to their
glass-manufacturing lines and produce modules at about 30 cents
a watt or less, according to Dieter Manz, Manz’s chief executive
officer. The Reutlingen, Germany-based company makes machines
that produce flat-panel displays and solar products.  Developers installed about 30 gigawatts of solar panels
worldwide in 2011, and Manz said the market will be big enough
to attract LCD companies when it reaches 100 gigawatts a year. A
high-volume LCD factory may be converted to a thin-film solar
plant with about 5 gigawatts of annual production capacity.  “In three years, more than half the players will be new
entrants,” Manz said in an interview in Munich June 13.
“Samsung, LG, Foxconn, all of them will come. For them it was
too small before, so they wait for the market to be 100
gigawatts and then they step in.”  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s largest thin-film solar
company, produced panels for 69 cents a watt in the first
quarter, according to data the Tempe, Arizona-based company
released May 3.  Manz last month posted a first-quarter loss before interest
and taxes of 4.9 million euros. The company expects 2012 sales
to be comparable to last year.  The company is close to winning its first orders for its
systems that make solar panels using copper-indium-gallium-
selenide, or CIGS, technology, the CEO said.  “We’ll sell maybe even more than one line by the end of
the year,” Manz said. “There is interest in  China  and in other
regions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net 
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  