-- Chamber Democratic Attack Ads Outpacing Political Parties
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-06-15T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/chamber-democratic-attack-ads-outpacing-political-parties.html
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s
advertising is outpacing both political parties in close Senate
races, adding volume to attack ads -- some of which have been
questioned by fact-checkers -- being aired against Democrats.  The nation’s biggest business lobby is second only to
Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies, a Republican group
supporting presumptive party presidential nominee  Mitt Romney ,
in airing campaign ads, according to a Bloomberg review of data
provided by New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks
advertising.  “Our members have been in a defensive posture because of
the unprecedented threats aimed at them” on labor, health care,
and  energy policy  by Obama’s administration, said Rob Engstrom,
the chamber’s national political director. “Our members are
interested in getting back on offense and creating jobs in this
country.”  The chamber’s top targets include Democratic senators
 Sherrod Brown  of Ohio,  Bill Nelson  of Florida, Jon Tester of
 Montana , and  Claire McCaskill  of Missouri. The organization is
also running ads supporting such candidates as former Republican
Governor Linda Lingle, who is running for an open Hawaii seat.  So far, the chamber has targeted nine Senate races and 31
House seats, according to  Blair Latoff , a chamber spokeswoman.
Of the 40 races, the chamber is backing a Democrat in two House
races, John Barrow of Georgia’s 12th congressional district and
Jim Matheson of Utah’s second district  ‘With the Republicans’  “They’re with the Republicans. There’s little evidence
otherwise,”said J.B. Poersch, a strategist for Majority PAC, a
super-political action committee dedicated to helping Democrats
retain Senate control.  A prime issue being used in the ads is the 2010 Affordable
Care Act, the health law Obama shepherded through Cobgress. In
the four Senate races where the chamber has put much of its
money --  Florida , Missouri, Ohio and Montana -- its most-run ads
focus on the health law, which all of the Democratic incumbents
supported.  In Florida, the chamber has replayed one ad, titled
“Nightmare,” 2,599 times. The ad narrator says that seniors
will see $500 billion Medicare cuts to fund “Obamacare,” a
claim which Politifact.com, a research project based in Tampa,
Florida, rates “mostly false.”  The law doesn’t cut $500 billion from the current Medicare
budget. It does restrain future growth of the government health
program for seniors by $500 billion less than originally
projected over the next ten years.  Chamber Members  The chamber, a nonprofit organization, doesn’t have to
disclose its donors. According to 2010 corporate annual reports,
health companies are dues-paying members of the organization.
Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based drug maker,  Merck & Co. (MRK) ,
gave $725,000 to the chamber, while Hartford, Connecticut-based
 Aetna Inc. (AET) , a health insurer, invested $100,000. In 2009, when
the law was being drafted, health companies accounted for 40
percent of the chamber’s $214.6 million budget, a Bloomberg
review of data showed.  In Ohio, the chamber has run the most negative ads of any
group including the candidate campaigns, with 5,515 spots. The
ad that has run the most says Brown supports raising energy
taxes.  One of the votes behind that claim was a measure to
eliminate $12 billion in tax breaks to  oil companies  over 10
years as a way of reducing the  budget deficit , according to
Politifact. It failed to gain enough votes for consideration on
the Senate floor.  Drilling Issue  Brown also opposed a measure to expand offshore oil and gas
drilling, which U.S. energy companies say would help lower fuel
taxes.  The chamber counts major oil companies as members,
including  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  which made a $500,000 payment to the
group in 2010, according to corporate records.  Politifact rated the ad “mostly false” since the taxes
Brown was supporting affected oil companies and not Ohio
consumers and since the “consumer impact of offshore drilling
would be minimal and in the far future.”  Anthony Corrado , professor of government at Colby College
in Waterville,  Maine , said while Crossroads and the Democratic
and Republican National Committees are investing primarily in
the presidential race, the chamber has the opportunity to drive
the debate in congressional elections.  Early Focus  “They tend to focus their advertising early” so they can
dominate the airwaves, he said. “The chamber has been very
effective in recent election cycles pursuing a very targeted
strategy of focusing on competitive races and highlighting their
issues.”  The chamber’s on-air presence demonstrates corporate
America’s rapid expansion into elections since it spent $4
million on congressional elections in the 2004 election. By
2008, the chamber’s political investment had grown to $36
million, according to a review by the Campaign Finance Institute
in  Washington .  In promising the largest grassroots mobilization and voter
education campaign in its 100-year history, the chamber plans
this year to spend more than the $50 million it poured into the
2010 campaign cycle. Engstrom, the group’s campaign strategist,
wouldn’t disclose a specific total.  “They’re arguably the powerhouse here, outside of groups
like American Crossroads,” said  Sheila Krumholz , executive
director of the Center for Responsive Politics in Washington.  Engstrom called “patently false” Democratic charges that
the business group is an extension of the  Republican Party .  Ranking Candidates  “If you vote with the business community 70 percent of the
time then you’re automatically endorsed,” he said, adding that
candidates who receive support or opposition are chosen based on
an annual scorecard ranking votes on key business-related
issues. “We proudly support Democrats when they vote with the
chamber.”  In House races, the group’s strategy is more focused on
promoting Republicans than attacking Democrats, with the number
of positive ads outpacing the number of negative ads, according
to CMAG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  