-- Charterhouse Said to Explore Sale of Metering Unit Ista
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-06-15T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/charterhouse-said-to-explore-sale-of-metering-unit-ista.html
Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP, a
London-based buyout firm, is exploring a sale of Ista
International GmbH in a deal that may value the German energy-
metering business at more than 3 billion euros ($3.8 billion),
according to people familiar with the matter.  Charterhouse is discussing options, including a sale or
initial public offering of its majority stake in Ista, as well
as refinancing, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the talks are private. Charterhouse, which may hire
banks in the second half, hasn’t made a final decision and may
wait until 2013 to sell the unit, they said.  Buyout firms in western  Europe  have bought and sold more
companies from April through June than in the previous two
quarters even as dealmaking fell amid the region’s sovereign
debt crisis, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. EQT
Partners AB, based in  Stockholm , this week agreed to buy
bandages-supplier BSN Medical in  Germany ’s largest buyout since
July 2008.  Representatives of Charterhouse didn’t immediately return
calls for comment. A spokeswoman for CVC Capital Partners Ltd.,
which owns a stake in Ista, declined to comment and Ista
officials weren’t immediately available to comment.  Ista, based in Essen, Germany, had 2010 adjusted sales of
673 million euros and adjusted earnings before interest and tax
of 165 million euros, according to its  website . The company
provides electricity, water, heat and gas-meter reading services
to property managers, home owners and utilities and operates in
25 countries.  Elster, Flint  Charterhouse’s plans come as CVC prepares to sell Elster
Group, an electric-metering company, and printing-ink maker
Flint Group, people familiar with the matter said.  CVC hired Deutsche Bank AG and Greenhill & Co. to advise on
a possible sale of Flint, although preparations are at an early
stage, the people said. The firm is also talking to banks about
selling Elster, which builds devices for metering, the people
said.  Elster spokesman Rainer Mueller-Mueffelmann declined to
comment on “market speculation.” Flint spokesman Colin Stokes
said by e-mail that “Flint Group regularly holds discussions
with banks, professional advisers and investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  