-- Chill Hits U.S.-Russia Ties as Obama, Putin Ready to Meet
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-06-15T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/chill-hits-u-s-russia-ties-as-obama-putin-ready-to-meet.html
When  Barack Obama  and  Vladimir Putin 
met for the first time in 2009, the new U.S. president had the
political edge over the Russian veteran.  That was then. With the two countries at loggerheads over
the Syria crisis and Iran’s suspect nuclear research, Putin will
have the advantage when he and Obama meet again next week on the
sidelines of an economic summit in  Mexico . He’s back as
president after a landslide victory in March, while Obama is
facing a sluggish economy and a tough re-election battle against
Republican  Mitt Romney .  “Obama really has no leverage to deal with Putin,” said
Andrew Kuchins, a senior fellow of the Russia and Eurasia
Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
 Washington . “I don’t see that conversation going well.”  The Obama administration’s hopes for a “reset” of
relations between the world’s two biggest nuclear powers are
receding. While the two nations still share a number of
interests -- notably promoting economic growth, speeding a U.S.
troop withdrawal from  Afghanistan , and combating Islamist
terrorism -- they disagree about uprisings in Arab nations and
missile defenses in Europe.  Putin snubbed Obama by declining to attend a G-8 economic
summit the president hosted last month at the Camp David
presidential retreat, and even now, there are echoes of the  Cold
War  past. Yesterday, Putin said Russia needs a new strategic
bomber, while the U.S. Air Force will award today a posthumous
Silver Star, the military’s third-highest combat decoration, to
Air Force Captain Francis Gary Powers, whose U-2 spy plane was
shot down over the Soviet Union in 1960.  Looking Forward  “We are clear and transparent and frank about the areas
where we disagree,” such as  Syria , White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said yesterday. Obama “looks forward” to meeting with
Putin at the summit, he said.  While not even the most pessimistic analysts fear a return
to the Cold War, the gulf between the U.S. and Russia widened
with NATO’s role overthrowing Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi ’s
government, like the regime of Syria’s Bashar al-Assad a
longtime Soviet arms client.  Putin is deeply mistrustful of American motives, and
suspects the Obama administration is advancing its own interests
in trying to topple regimes it doesn’t like and replace them
with U.S.-friendly governments, according to Kuchins.  Helicopter Feud  The deepening rift over how to deal with the conflict in
Syria was on display this week when U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  accused  Russia  of stoking the violence in Syria
by delivering weapons and even attack helicopters to Assad’s
forces.  Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  retorted that unlike the
U.S., the Russians “aren’t shipping to Syria or anywhere else
things that can be used against peaceful demonstrators.”  Those tensions will be highlighted during the Group of 20
gathering June 18-19 in the Mexican beach town of Los Cabos.
While the sun is expected to shine over the meetings -- with
temperatures of 34 degree Celsius (93 degrees Fahrenheit)
predicted -- Putin’s interactions with Obama aren’t forecast to
be as warm.  Vying for a leading role as the peace broker in Syria,
Russia wants to enlist Shiite Muslim  Iran , as a neighbor with
influence over Assad’s minority Alawite regime, in efforts to
end the strife.  Clinton publicly rebuffed the idea on June 12, saying that
it would be a “grave error” because Iran has trained and
supported Syrian government forces and Alawite militias blamed
for civilian massacres.  First Meeting  Even the president’s first meeting with Putin on July 7,
2009 -- halfway through Obama’s first year -- “did not go well
at all,” Kuchins recalled. The atmosphere, he said, was tense
because five days earlier Obama had told The  Associated Press 
that Putin had to “understand that the old cold war approaches
to U.S.-Russian relations is outdated.”  “There were periods when our relations flourished quite a
bit, and there were also periods of, shall we say, grayish mood
between our two countries and of stagnation.” Putin told Obama
during their first sit-down in the Oval Office.  The history between the U.S. and Russia had “shall we say,
color,” he remarked.  In his overview of the Arab revolts, Putin has yet to be
dissuaded that an autocrat doesn’t provide more stability than a
young and uncertain opposition, said Lilit Gevorgyan, a London-
based analyst at IHS Global Insight, said in an e-mail.  A ‘Crusade’  After a delayed reaction to the ouster of Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak , the U.S. went into overdrive
encouraging democratic transitions in Libya and elsewhere in the
region.  Putin likened North Atlantic Treaty Organization air
strikes against the North African country to a “crusade” and
disagreed with  Dmitry Medvedev , the acolyte he elevated to
succeed him as president, who made the call that Russia would
abstain from a  United Nations  resolution that authorized the no-
fly zone.  Putin made it clear that when he regained full control,
that mistake would never be repeated, and with China, Russia has
twice vetoed Western attempts in the UN Security Council to put
pressure on Assad.  At stake for Russia are economic and strategic interests in
a part of world where its influence has waned since the collapse
of communism. Its only military base outside the former  Soviet
Union  is a naval maintenance and supply center in the Syrian
port of Tartus on the Mediterranean Sea.  Common Interests  Obama’s first impression of Putin, conveyed to  CNN , was
that the former KGB officer was “tough, smart, very
unsentimental,” and that pragmatism remains evident in some
spheres.  The Russians have cooperated with the U.S. and former
Soviet republics in Central Asia in moving American and NATO
supplies in and out of Afghanistan on the so-called Northern
Distribution Network. Although the Russians retain considerable
influence in the region, they also have posed no obstacles to
American use of the Manas Transit Center and airfield in
Kyrgyzstan, two U.S. officials active in managing Russo-American
relations said this week.  Even so, they said, the shared view of the Islamic
terrorist threat is partly what divides the U.S. and Russia on
Syria.  Russia, battling Islamist groups in Chechnya and elsewhere,
fears a radical Sunni takeover if Assad falls, while the U.S.
thinks his demise would be a blow to the Lebanese terrorist
group Hezbollah and to Iran, the officials said, speaking on the
condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence matters.  Moreover, in the proxy battle in Syria between Sunni-led
Saudi Arabia and Shiite-majority Iran, Russia and the U.S. also
are in opposing camps, Kuchins said.  “When push comes to shove, the Russians will pick Iran and
the Americans the Saudis,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  