-- Chile's Provida Jumps on Speculation BBVA May Sell Soon
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-06-15T20:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/chile-s-provida-jumps-on-speculation-bbva-may-sell-soon.html
AFP Provida SA (PVD) ,  Chile ’s largest
pension fund manager, rose the most in 10 months on speculation
its parent company,  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , received
a bid for the unit.  Provida gained 11 percent to a record 2,900 pesos at 3:18
p.m. in Santiago trading, the biggest intraday advance since
Aug. 9, while its American depositary receipts surged 10
percent. Local trading was halted, the Santiago exchange said.  “There is talk that BBVA already has an attractive offer
on the table,” German Guerrero, a partner at Santiago-based
brokerage MBI Servicios Financieros, said in a telephone
interview. MBI clients sold Provida shares today, he said.  BBVA, Spain’s second-largest bank, is studying a partial or
total sale of its pension fund business in Chile, Colombia,  Peru 
and Mexico, according to a May 24 regulatory filing.  Roberto Ordonez, head of communications at BBVA’s
operations in Chile, didn’t answer two phone calls or respond to
an e-mail request for comment.  Brokerage Larrain Vial SA accounted for 76 percent of all
acquisitions of Provida shares today, according to information
from the Santiago exchange. Gabriela Villalobos, an official at
the brokerage’s communications department, declined to comment.  AFP Habitat SA (HABITAT) , Chile’s second-largest pension fund manager
by assets, rose 4.8 percent to 722.99 pesos, the biggest
increase since Oct. 27.  “An attractive offer for Provida will increase valuations
of all pension funds,” Guerrero said.  Provida had 21.1 trillion pesos ($42 billion) in assets
under management as of May 31 while Habitat had 18.7 trillion
pesos, according to the industry regulator’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  