-- Chile’s Peso Gains on Bets Central Banks Are Ready for Stimulus
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-06-15T18:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/chile-s-peso-gains-on-bets-central-banks-are-ready-for-stimulus.html
Chile’s peso rose, extending its
second straight weekly rally, on speculation central banks are
poised to boost economies should  Greece ’s election result
threaten the euro.  The peso advanced 0.3 percent to 499.95 per  U.S. dollar . It
opened at 497.15 per dollar after it appreciated yesterday after
market hours, according to prices from Datatec, an interbank
trading system. The peso appreciated 0.5 percent this week.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and French President
 Francois Hollande  agreed yesterday that Greece should remain in
the euro area. A victory in June 17 elections by Syriza, the
party that promises to renege on Greece’s end of the bailout
deal, may speed the nation’s exit from the monetary union.  Bank
of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said the case for more stimulus
is growing as the bank and the U.K. government announced two
plans to increase the flow of credit.  “Either Greek scenario could be good for markets: either
the pro-bailout party wins or the anti-bailout party wins and we
get stimulus,” said Eugenio Cortes, head of currency forwards
at EuroAmerica Corredores de Bolsa SA. “Central banks and
authorities are prepared and are taking measures. That calms
markets and was reflected in today’s opening.”  International investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
had bets against the peso of $10.4 billion on June 13, according
to central bank data.  Chilean interest-rate swap rates rose after the central
bank left its benchmark interest-rate unchanged for the fifth
straight month last night. The one-year swap rate climbed six
basis points to 4.75 percent.  One-year breakeven inflation increased 10 basis points to
2.71 percent. Two-year breakeven inflation climbed four basis
points to 2.64 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  