-- Chinese Officials Suspended Amid Probe Into Forced Abortion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-15T06:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/chinese-city-suspends-officials-under-probe-into-forced-abortion.html
A western Chinese city suspended
three officials as part of an investigation into claims they
forced a woman to abort her seven-month-old fetus, as leaders
sought to address public anger over the case.  The officials in Ankang “breached rules” in the case of
Feng Jianmei, 23, the Ankang government said in a  statement  on
its website yesterday. The Global  Times newspaper  said Feng was
forced to abort the baby because she couldn’t pay a 40,000  yuan 
($6,300) fine for violating China’s one-child policy.  The investigation was prompted by outrage online over
photos that showed the woman lying next to her aborted fetus and
methods used by local officials to control population growth in
China. Yesterday, Vice Mayor Du Shouping visited Feng and her
family at a hospital to ask for forgiveness, according to a
separate  statement  posted on Ankang’s website today.  The government’s handling of the case has bee more lenient
than actions against blind lawyer  Chen Guangcheng , who was
targeted by another local government for taking up the
grievances of women claiming they were forced into abortions.
Chen was jailed for four years and held under house arrest for
almost two years before  China  allowed him to leave for the U.S.
last month.  Changed Society  The forced abortion in Ankang “would have been seen as
normal in the past and shows how far society has changed,” Wang
Feng, the Beijing-based director of the  Brookings-Tsinghua
Center for Public Policy , said by phone. “The Internet exposure
of the case, including the posts and the photos, played a great
role in the government’s fast response.”  In Ankang, two local family planning officials and one with
the local government were suspended, according to the statement.  Feng agreed to have the abortion because her pregnancy
violated China’s one-child policy, according to a statement
published June 11 on the website of a county within Ankang. The
Global Times report said that local officials detained Feng,
blindfolded her then forced her to sign an agreement to have the
abortion, quoting Feng’s husband, Deng Jiyuan.  The reports in state media such as the Global Times comes
amid a broader push by some Chinese provinces to ease
restrictions under the one-child policy, imposed in 1979 to
control growth in a population that has reached more than 1.3
billion people.  UN Projections  China’s leaders confront United Nations projections that
show the pool of 15 to 24-year-olds will fall by almost 62
million people through 2025. In that time, those over the age of
65 will surge 78 percent to 195 million, the UN says.  The Chinese government now allows exceptions to its one-
child policy, such as permitting rural families to have a second
child if the first is a girl. In 2010, the state-run China Daily
newspaper ran an article quoting Zhai Zhenwu, director of the
school of population and sociological studies at Renmin
University, as saying  the task of controlling  population growth 
is “nearly complete.”  The government’s restrictions were more severe for Chen,
who was sentenced to four years in prison in 2006 for
“organizing a mob to disturb traffic,” the Xinhua News Agency
reported at the time. Chen was released in 2010 and held under
extrajudicial house arrest, with local authorities blocking his
movements and denying him visitors until he fled in April and
spent a week at the U.S. Embassy.  “The suspended officials aren’t responsible for the
occurrence of such cases,” said Wang of the Brookings-Tsingua
Center. “We have to think about the root cause of the tragedy.
It’s the rules for birth quotas and the fines.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  