-- China Said to Buy 1 Million Tons of U.S. Cotton for Reserves
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-15T09:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/china-said-to-buy-1-million-tons-of-u-s-cotton-for-reserves-1-.html
China , the world’s biggest cotton
user, is seeking to buy 1 million metric tons of new-crop output
from the U.S. to boost government stockpiles, according to two
executives familiar with the matter. Prices climbed.  The  China National Cotton Reserves Corp. , which stockpiles
the commodity on behalf of the government, has bought 160,000
tons since last week, said the executives, who declined to be
identified as they aren’t authorized to speak to the media.
Phone calls to the state company today weren’t answered.  Purchases by China may help futures post a second weekly
gain. New-crop cotton in  New York  is about 48 percent cheaper
than that traded in China’s Zhengzhou, according to Bloomberg
data. It’s still more than 20 percent less than local cotton
after freight costs, the two executives said. State stockpiles
would be expanded, the top planning agency said last month.  “The Chinese government has become the most important
factor in global demand and supply,” said Dong Shuangwei, a
senior analyst at Beijing Capital Futures Co. “We call it a
‘policy market,’ driven by the Chinese government stance on
cotton because the fundamentals still paint a rather gloomy
picture.”  The global cotton market will have a surplus of 2.226
million tons in 2012-2013, down from this year’s glut of 5.056
million tons, according to projections from industry researcher
Cotlook Ltd. in a May 24 report.  Futures Climb  Cotton for December delivery gained 1.3 percent to 71.49
cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. at 4:27 p.m. in  Shanghai . The
most-active price has risen 2.3 percent this week, extending
last week’s 3.4 percent gain. Over the past year, cotton slumped
43 percent as world supply exceeded demand.  The December contract advanced as much as 3.8 percent
yesterday after the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  reported that
exports gained fivefold in the week to June 7 from the previous
week. The sales figures were “absolutely monster,” according
to  Mike Stevens , an independent trader in Mandeville,  Louisiana .  Cotton stockpiling is set to continue in China with
purchases from local farmers, Zhang Xianbin, director at the
economic and trade department under the National Development &
Reform Commission, said at a forum last month. The commission
shapes economic policy in China.  Cotton reserves in China are set to increase in the year to
July 31, 2013, according to the  International Cotton Advisory
Committee . Imports by China may drop to 13.5 million, 480 pound
(218 kilogram) bales in 2012-2013 from 23.25 million bales a
year earlier, according to the USDA.  China has an annual quota for imports to regulate shipments.
While quantities within that allowance are taxed at as low as 1
percent of value, shipments above that threshold face a rate of
as much as 40 percent. Government imports for stockpiling aren’t
included in the quota, the executives said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  