-- China Raises Treasury Holdings First Time in Three Months
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-06-15T19:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/china-raises-treasury-holdings-first-time-in-three-months.html
China, the largest foreign U.S.
creditor, boosted its holdings of U.S. government securities in
April for the first time in three months as concern increased
that  Europe ’s financial crisis was worsening.  Chinese holding rose 0.1 percent to $1.1455 trillion, U.S.
Treasury Department data released yesterday show. Those of
 Japan , America’s second-largest lender, slipped 1 percent to
$1.0661 trillion. Net foreign purchases of Treasuries increased
$21 billion, or 0.4 percent, to a record $5.156 trillion in
April, the data show.  “We’ve seen a global flight to quality and the Treasury
market has enjoyed the lion’s share of the benefits as the
premier safe haven,” said  Millan Mulraine , an interest-rate
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Banks’ TD Securities unit in New
York. “There is still a lot of concern about where global
growth and policy makers are headed, and as such, investors are
plowing into government debt.”  Investors continued to seek a haven in U.S. Treasuries
after  Spain ’s announcement that it will ask for as much as 100
billion euros ($126 billion) in aid for its banks has failed to
quell global turmoil in financial markets. Elections in  Greece 
on June 17 will set the stage for determining whether the
country is prepared to stand by its international-bailout
commitments.  Yields on benchmark 10-year Treasury notes dropped to a
record low of 1.44 percent on June 1 as the  Federal Reserve 
pledged to keep borrowing costs close to zero to sustain
economic growth.  Reporting Change  The data showed China held $1.144 trillion of Treasuries in
March, a decrease from the $1.1699 trillion reported for the
period on May 15. The Treasury is revising holdings data on a
monthly basis rather than annually based on the nationality of
the beneficial holder of the debt, while the initial data will
still count the location of the purchase. For the year,  China ’s
holdings have declined 0.6 percent.  China’s holdings of short-term Treasury bills declined 5.1
percent in April to $3.7 billion from $3.9 billion the month
before.  “China buying was more for maintenance purpose as they
still have dollars to put to work,” said  Ian Lyngen , a
government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,
Connecticut. “They are becoming less and less relevant in the
market as their currency faces less upward pressure.”  Diversification Policy  China’s policy makers have advocated diversification of the
nation’s foreign-exchange reserves away from U.S. assets after
more than doubling its holdings of Treasuries since 2007 in the
wake of the global financial crisis.  Treasuries have returned 1.8 percent this year, according
to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes.  The Fed remains the top holder of  U.S. debt  with $1.66
trillion. The central bank said in September it would sell $400
billion of short-term debt in its holdings and buy an equal
amount of longer-maturity Treasuries. Traders call the program
Operation Twist after a similar effort in 1961 to contain
borrowing costs for companies and consumers.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$25.6 billion during the month, compared with net purchases of
$36 billion in March, the Treasury said in Washington.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected net buying of
$45 billion of long-term assets, according to the median
estimate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  