-- China Chooses Liberation Army Pilot as First Woman Astronaut
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-15T12:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/china-chooses-liberation-army-pilot-as-first-woman-astronaut-1-.html
China  picked People’s Liberation
Army pilot  Liu Yang  as its first female astronaut, tapping a
woman hailed as a hero for performing an emergency landing after
her plane struck a flock of birds.  Liu will be one of three astronauts aboard the Shenzhou-9
spacecraft when it blasts off tomorrow ahead of the country’s
first manned orbital docking with the Tiangong-1, or “Heavenly
Palace” module, the Xinhua News Agency reported. She was chosen
over another female candidate, Wang Yaping.  Chinese state media have touted Liu’s accomplishments over
the last week, framing her selection as part of the country’s
broader push to expand its space program while those of other
countries have contracted. Tomorrow’s launch may bring China a
step closer to its goal of operating a permanent manned space
station and putting a person on the moon by 2020.  “I am grateful to the motherland and the people,” Liu
told a media briefing today, according to Xinhua. “I feel
honored to fly into space on behalf of hundreds of millions of
female Chinese citizens.”  Under the headline “Female astronaut was a hero pilot,”
the state-run  China Daily  newspaper reported on June 11 how Liu
had “successfully dealt with a mid-air emergency” after her
plane hit 18 pigeons, splattering the windshield with blood and
filling the cockpit with a “burning smell.”  “In China, pilots with the experience of dealing with
emergencies are preferred for astronaut selection,” the
newspaper said. China Daily said Liu is 34 years old, while
Xinhua said she is 33.  Space Module  In case of emergency after the launch, one of the
astronauts will stay aboard the Shenzhou-9 while the other two
enter the space module, Xinhua reported June 9. Chinese state
media didn’t say if Liu would remain on the craft or go into the
orbiter.  Selection requirements demand that the female astronaut be
married and have given birth, according to a story in the
newspaper of the Shaanxi Province Communist Party committee. She
also must have no scars, bad breath or tooth decay, the
newspaper said.  “Female astronauts are more sensitive and better at
communication, which will be beneficial in long, arduous
spaceflights,” the Global Times said this week, quoting Pang
Zhihai, managing editor of Space International.  ‘Rose Garden’  In a  2002 profile  of Liu, the People’s Liberation Army
Daily reported that Liu had studied English and computers as
well as flying. It said that she wrote a poem for an English
contest that included the line: “As a female pilot, the
motherland’s blue sky is my sacred  rose garden .”  Xinhua reported that Liu has 1,680 hours of flying
time and is the deputy head of a flight unit of the PLA’s  Air
Force . She was recruited to be a potential astronaut in 2010,
Xinhua said.  China sent its first man into orbit and conducted its first
spacewalk decades later than the U.S. and  Russia . The Global
Times article said China’s  manned station  would become
operational when other space stations are likely to shut down,
“possibly leaving China as the only country with a space
station.”  “China is ready to have international cooperation
including with the U.S. side in the space program, on the basis
of equality and mutual respect,” Foreign Ministry spokesman  Liu
Weimin  said today. “The achievement China has made in its space
program is the result of the Chinese people’s hard work and
innovation.”  The U.S. plans to operate the International Space Station,
a research laboratory that orbits about 240 miles above Earth,
through 2020. In 2010, President  Barack Obama  scrapped plans to
return to the moon, setting a goal instead of making a “leap
into the future” of deep-space travel. The U.S. ended its space
shuttle program last year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  