-- Coca-Cola Announces Will Return to Myanmar After 60 Years
-- B y   T o n y   J o r d a n
-- 2012-06-15T07:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/coca-cola-announces-will-return-to-myanmar-after-60-years.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  plans to return to
Myanmar for the first time in more than 60 years, leaving Cuba
and North Korea as the only nations where the maker of the
world’s most popular soft drink doesn't do business.  The company will start operating in Myanmar as soon as the
U.S. government issues a license allowing investments in the
Southeast Asian country, a move that may be “imminent,” the
Atlanta-based company said in a statement distributed by
Businesswire yesterday.  Myanmar is enhancing economic, military and political ties
with Western nations after years of isolation that left its 64
million people among Asia’s poorest. The country’s transition to
democracy in recent months after about five decades of military
rule prompted the U.S. to ease sanctions in May.  “Coca-Cola’s planned entry into Myanmar, following the
suspension of sanctions, will be governed by its well-
established global standards for corporate ethics including
strict adherence to its global human and workplace rights
policy, supplier guiding principles, code of business conduct,
and anti-bribery policies,” the company said in the statement.  Coca-Cola will initially import some products from
neighboring countries before “making significant investments in
Myanmar over the next three-five years,” the company said,
adding it will work with local partners to support the country’s
long-term economic development.  Cuba, North Korea  Coca-Cola has grown from selling nine drinks a day in a
single country in 1886 to distributing 1.8 billion beverages in
more than 200 nations, according to data posted on its  website .
Myanmar, Cuba and  North Korea  are the only countries where Coca-
Cola doesn’t operate, the company said yesterday. Coca-Cola says
the 1971-vintage advertisement entitled “I’d Like to Buy the
World a Coke” remains one of its most popular.  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , the world’s second-largest soft-drink maker,
pulled out of Myanmar in 1997 after shareholder groups and
activists urged the company to sever ties with the military
dictatorship because of human-rights violations. Heineken NV,
the world’s third-biggest brewer, withdrew in 1996.  Myanmar opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi earlier this
month warned investors against “reckless optimism” in the
country’s move toward democracy. In a speech in Bangkok, her
first outside Myanmar in 24 years, Suu Kyi called  job creation 
her top priority and called for “healthy skepticism” of
Myanmar’s reform process.  London-based  WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s biggest advertising
company, and  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ,  India ’s biggest automaker, have
announced moves to expand in Myanmar in recent months, while
General Electric Co. and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  are among other
companies considering investing in the nation. Myanmar is “set
for economic takeoff” if it implements the right policies, the
 International Monetary Fund  said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Jordan in Bangkok at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at   lklemming@bloomberg.net  