-- Colombian Stocks: Bolsa de Valores, Cementos Argos, Ecopetrol
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-06-15T21:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/colombian-stocks-bolsa-de-valores-cementos-argos-ecopetrol.html
The following companies had unusual
price changes in Bogota trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of the close of trading.  The  IGBC Index (IGBC)  fell 0.4 percent to 13,884.36, while the
Colcap Index dropped 0.9 percent to 1,649.50.  Cementos Argos SA (CEMARGOS)  , the country’s biggest
cement maker, advanced 2.3 percent to 6,600 pesos, pushing its
weekly gain to 9.1 percent. The company’s shares started trading
on June 8 after a six-day suspension as part of a plan announced
last year to spin off assets not related to cement production to
 Inversiones Argos SA. (INVARGOS)  “The market has reacted positively to the
more straightforward stock after the spin-off,” said Carlos Eduardo Gonzalez, a Medellin-based analyst at brokerage Bolsa y
Renta. “It allows investors a clearer bet on the sector.”  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  , the country’s largest oil
company, increased 1.3 percent to 5,290 pesos.  Colombia ’s
government will send legislation to Congress this year that
would allow for the sale of a stake in the state-run company,
although officials aren’t in a rush to do so, Finance Minister
Juan Carlos Echeverry told reporters yesterday in Bogota.  Separately, Mines and Energy Minister Mauricio Cardenas
told reporters in Bogota yesterday that a Colombian regulatory
ruling won’t delay plans by Ecopetrol to complete a pipeline
project this year.  Bolsa de Valores de Colombia SA  (BVC CB), the operator of
the country’s main stock exchange, increased 2 percent to 29.90
pesos. Colombia’s bourse is expecting two “smaller-sized”
equity sales from local companies some time this year, as well
as a possible listing by a foreign company, Juan Pablo Cordoba,
president of  Bolsa de Valores de Colombia (BVC) , said in an interview
yesterday at his office in Bogota.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in New York at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  