-- Costa Rica Sees $4 Billion Bond Plan Approval Within Month
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-06-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/costa-rica-sees-4-billion-bond-plan-approval-within-month.html
Costa Rica  expects congressional
approval within a month to sell as much as $4 billion in bonds
abroad and plans an offering of at least $500 million by
November, Vice President Luis Liberman said.  Costa Rica is counting on its first international bond sale
since 2004 to help finance a deficit that will approach five
percent of gross domestic product next year from 4.1 percent in
2011, Liberman said in an interview yesterday in New York. The
government is seeking to tap global markets after local currency
debt as a share of gross domestic product climbed above 25
percent last year from about 17 percent in 2008.  “We don’t want to continue crowding out the local private
sector,” said the 65-year-old Liberman, who led Scotiabank
Costa Rica until 2009 and heads President Laura Chinchilla’s
economic team. “We should balance our financing.”  Chinchilla won’t resubmit plans to generate $650 million
per year in revenue from new and higher taxes after the  Supreme
Court  rejected her proposal in April, Liberman said. Yields on
Costa Rica’s dollar bonds due in 2014 have climbed 69 basis
points, or 0.69 percentage point, to 4.02 percent since the
court’s decision.  “The most viable option would’ve been to increase revenue
but since that proposal didn’t pass, they’ll need more
debt” to finance the deficit, said Alejandro Arreaza, an
analyst at Barclays Capital Inc. in New York.  Under the terms of the bond proposal, the government will
have the authority to issue up to $4 billion in debt over the
next ten years, with sales in any single year limited to $1
billion, Liberman said. The Central American nation faces $500
million in maturing debt in 2013-2014, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Guatemala Debt Sale  Chinchilla is also seeking approval for plans to improve
tax collection and banking transparency and cap the rate of
 government spending  to that of nominal economic growth.  The $40 billion economy is rated one level above Guatemala
at BB+ by  Standard & Poor’s  and should expect to pay lower
borrowing costs, Liberman said. Guatemala sold $700 million in
10-year bonds last month that yield 5.7 percent.  Costa Rica doesn’t face competition in luring investment
from neighboring Panama, the fastest growing economy in  Latin
America , Liberman said. Chinchilla’s goal of bringing $9 billion
in foreign direct investment to Costa Rica over four years is on
track and last year surpassed the annual target “by several
hundred million dollars,” Liberman said.  “No other country can compete with us in terms of the
quality of human resources,” said Liberman, who received his
doctorate in economics from the  University of Illinois  and
served as head of the Costa Rican stock market.  Intel Factory  Using tax incentives and promoting the country’s educated
workforce has helped Costa Rica attract companies including
 Intel Corp. (INTC) , which built a $2 billion micro-processing plant in
1997, to  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  as the
nation diversified its export base away from agricultural
commodities such as bananas and coffee.  High-tech companies brought in $9 out of every $10 in
revenue from free zones during the last decade, according to
Gabriela Llobet, director general of the Costa Rican Investment
Board.  Costa Rica is improving its economic ties with  China  and is
in the final stages of negotiation with the world’s biggest
emerging market over the construction of a $1.4 billion oil
refinery, Liberman said. Chinchilla is also meeting today with
Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  in San Jose to announce
plans to negotiate a  free-trade  agreement.  Free Trade  “What’s attractive about Costa Rica is the fact that our
exports have access to some of the largest economies in the
world,” he said, citing free trade deals with the U.S.,  Canada ,
China and the European Union.  Santos’s government is also advising Chinchilla on how to
tackle a growing threat from drug trafficking, Liberman said.
Record cocaine interdiction this year is a sign of better
policing efforts and regional cooperation, he added.  The United Nations’  International Narcotics Control Board 
cited Costa Rica along with Honduras and Nicaragua in February
as major transit countries for drug traffickers.  “We’re a country without an army but we’ve started beefing
up,” Liberman said. “We would appreciate more help from the
U.S. and  Europe , but we know we have to resolve our own
problems.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in  New York  at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Williams in San Jose, Costa Rica at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  