-- Croatia Focuses on Champion Spain as Italy Frets at Euro 2012
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-15T02:52:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/croatia-focuses-on-champion-spain-as-italy-frets-at-euro-2012.html
Croatia  won’t curb its attacking
instincts in its last European Championship group game against
defending champion Spain even though a draw may be enough to
take both teams to the quarterfinals at Italy’s expense.  “We’re a team who don’t know how to defend,” Croatia’s
Vedran Corluka said in an interview in Poznan,  Poland , last
night following his team’s 1-1 draw against the Italians. “So
we will play our own style, we will try to win.”  The result put Croatia and Spain, which routed Ireland 4-0
yesterday, on four points in Group C before their June 18
meeting at the 16-nation  soccer tournament . Italy is two points
back and needs to beat already eliminated Ireland on the same
day to have any chance of advancing to the quarterfinals.  If  Italy  wins and the other game is tied, the three teams
will finish with five points and qualification would then be
decided by their head-to-head records. The Italians have drawn
both games 1-1, so a 2-2 draw between Spain and Croatia would
give both more goals in the matches among the three teams and
put the Azzurri out.  Italy was eliminated at the group stage of the 2004 edition
of the four-yearly tournament after Denmark and Sweden played to
a 2-2 draw that ensured they advanced and Italy crashed out.  “We’re still convinced we can get through,” Italy coach
Cesare Prandelli told reporters after Mario Mandzukic’s 72nd-
minute goal tied it for Croatia. “Mathematically, we are not
out of it, but we have wasted an opportunity here.”  Pirlo’s Curler  Italy dominated the opening period with  Mario Balotelli ,
Claudio Marchisio and  Antonio Cassano  having shots at Stipe Pletikosa’s goal. The goalkeeper was unable to prevent  Andrea Pirlo  from putting Italy ahead with a 39th-minute free kick that
curled away from his reach.  Croatia pressed during the second half and tied it when
Ivan Strinic crossed for Mandzukic, who brought the ball down
and shot into the net off the post. It was the striker’s third
goal to tie Germany’s  Mario Gomez  and Russia’s Alan Dzagoev for
the tournament lead.  “In the second half, we pushed them further to their own
goal,” Corluka said. “It was the key.”  Italy is now without a win in six straight games at
European Championship and World Cup tournaments, its longest
streak without victory in major competitions, according to
Infostrada Sports. The last triumph was a 2-0 win against France
at Euro 2008.  “I feel that we are playing well,” Italy goalkeeper
 Gianluigi Buffon  told reporters. “We just need to be more
clinical and try to kill off games when we have the chance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Poznan via Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in Kiev via the London newsroom at   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  