-- Cruise ‘Ages’; Vile ‘Boy’; Scott Thomas’s ‘Fifth’: Review
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-06-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/cruise-ages-vile-boy-scott-thomas-s-fifth-review.html
No hair is thick enough to tease
much joy from “ Rock of Ages ,” a disposable adaptation of
Broadway’s hackneyed 1980s jukebox musical.  Without the fist-pumping revelry (and shared embarrassment)
of the live experience, “Rock of Ages” is two hours of
celebrity karaoke.  Director Adam Shankman blandly mimics the strut and style
of classic  MTV  while seriously overplaying his one ace: The
stunt-casting of  Tom Cruise  as desiccated glam god Stacee Jaxx.  Any resemblance to Axl Rose is purely intentional. In butt-
less chaps, metal codpiece, bandana and eyeliner, the tattooed
Cruise spooks this ’80s-themed Halloween party far too long.
What might have been an amusing cameo grows thin with
repetition.  If you’ve seen the pictures, you’ve seen the performance.  Cruise’s outsize presence also tilts the story from
featherweight leads who can’t hack the competition.  Julianne Hough (from TV’s “Dancing With the Stars”) and
newcomer Diego Boneta are the young lovers slinging drinks.  With a screenplay by  Justin Theroux ,  Chris D’Arienzo  and
 Allan Loeb  (adapted from D’Arienzo’s stage musical), “Rock of
Ages” sets the boy-meets-girl story against a “ Footloose ”
background of church ladies picketing the sinful nightclub.  Never mind. The pull here is name-brand stars (Cruise,
 Catherine Zeta-Jones ,  Alec Baldwin ,  Russell Brand ,  Paul Giamatti , Mary J. Blige) dolled up in ’80s drag and belting,
competently, a couple dozen metal staples, including “I Love
Rock and Roll” and “Oh, Sherrie.”  Only Baldwin and Brand, as the club operators who want to
know what love is, are much fun. Rita Ryack’s costumes aren’t
outrageous enough and Mia Michaels’s choreography is no better
than the TV show that apparently got Hough this squandered gig.  “Rock of Ages,” from New Line Cinema, is playing across
the U.S. Rating: *1/2 (Evans)  ‘That’s My Boy’  In “ That’s My Boy ,” an obnoxious schoolboy has sex -- a
lot of sex -- with his deranged teacher. When their affair
becomes known, she’s pregnant and sent up for 30 years. He’s
charged with custody of their child as soon as he turns 18.  The father grows up (using the term loosely) to be  Adam Sandler ; the child to be Andy Samberg. They have a falling out.  The son makes good in the financial world and falls in
love. The father shows up for the wedding.  In “ La Cage aux Folles ,” from which this plot is
reworked, the embarrassing parent is a drag queen. Here he’s a
moron.  All the jokes -- about penises, vaginas, fat people, dirty-
mouthed old ladies and the endless humiliation of Andy Samberg -
- hit the same outrageous, unfunny note. (The director is Sean
Anders.)  The running gag is that the rich wedding guests find vulgar
dad funny and refreshing.  After a while, Sandler’s Al-Pacino-meets-Curly-Howard rasp
took on the menace of a funhouse nightmare. This may be the
ugliest movie I’ve ever seen.  “That’s My Boy,” from Sony pictures, is playing across
the U.S. Rating: No stars (Seligman)  ‘Woman in the Fifth’  The atmospheric French-Polish mystery “ The Woman in the
Fifth ” opens with an American novelist (Ethan Hawke) landing in
Paris. He informs border security he’ll be helping out his wife
by taking care of their daughter.  We soon learn that his wife has a restraining order against
him. We don’t know why.  He’s robbed and winds up in a horrid room in a skid-row
hotel above a cafe. At a party he meets the alluring woman of
the title (Kristin  Scott Thomas ), who invites him home.  Their sex has a comic perversity that would have thrilled
Nabokov. Is it the director’s joke that her apartment is in the
second arrondissement, not the fifth? And why does she seem to
know him so well?  The hotel owner hires him to sit in a windowless room in
what appears to be an electrical substation, buzzing in visitors
who ask for M. Monde. What do they want?  A murder. A disappearance. A hint of the supernatural.
Events grow increasingly bizarre and inexplicable. Are we
witnessing them through the fantasy of a lunatic?  Looking gorgeous, Hawke is perfect as a man half in agony
and half blank. Scott Thomas is as magnetic as her character is
meant to be, and twice as funny.  And the fine young Polish actress Joanna Kulig (currently
she’s also very good in the very bad “Elles,” playing a
prostitute with more nuance than the role deserves) is delicate
but not fragile as a waitress at the cafe who’s drawn to the
writer.  The director, Pawel Pawlikowski, working from a novel by
Douglas Kennedy, and with help from a haunting score by Max de
Wardener, has put together a lusciously disquieting film. Does a
movie have to make sense to be good?  “The Woman in the Fifth,” from ATO Pictures, is playing
in  New York ,  Washington ,  Seattle ,  San Diego  and  San Francisco .
Rating: *** (Seligman)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Lewis
Lapham  on books.  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 