-- DeltaWing Upstages Toyota’s $50 Million Return to Le Mans Race
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-06-15T09:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/deltawing-upstages-toyota-s-50-million-return-to-le-mans-race.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s return to the
24 Hours of Le Mans with an electric hybrid is being upstaged by
a gasoline racing car that isn’t even a contender.  U.S. businessman Don Panoz and his partners are defying
conventional racecar design by pitting the  Nissan DeltaWing 
against superior engine power and Toyota’s $50 million budget.
The DeltaWing has four-inch front wheels, weighs less than half
as much as a  BMW Mini Cooper  and resembles the Batmobile.  The  endurance racing event  draws more than 200,000 fans to
central  France . While the 1.6-liter DeltaWing lapped slower than
the 3.7-liter hybrids of Toyota and race favorite  Audi AG (NSU)  in
practice, its unusual design is taking some of the spotlight
from the automakers, said  Le Mans  historian Quentin Spurring.
The 56-vehicle race, in which the Deltawing is an unclassified
entry, begins at 3 p.m. tomorrow.  “It will wow a lot of people,” said Spurring, who is
halfway through compiling an eight-volume history of the 89-
year-old event. “I know of people who are going to Le Mans just
to see this car.”  The 24 Hours of Le Mans, which is run on an 8.5-mile
circuit 130 miles southwest of Paris, was started as durability
test for carmakers such as Bugatti. Drivers take turns in a bid
to cover the most ground. Organizer  Automobile Club de l’Ouest 
has sought to preserve its status as a testing ground for
technology by regularly tweaking the rules.  Toyota, returning to Le Mans after 13 years away including
a winless stint in Formula One, wants to give its Prius and
Yaris hybrid hatchbacks a sportier image by becoming the first
winner with a part-electric engine, Rob Leupen, director of
business operations at Toyota Motorsport GmbH, said in a phone
interview from Cologne.  Audi Streak  Audi, which won seven of the last eight editions, wants a
sales boost for vehicles like its Q5 hybrid, Wolfgang Ullrich,
head of Audi’s motorsports unit, said. The goal for the  475-kilo
(1,050-pound) DeltaWing  is to produce a fleet of similar racing
cars or road cars, Panoz, 77, said.  Panoz founded Dublin, Ireland-based drug-maker  Elan Corp. (ELN) 
in 1969 and took it public in 1984. He retired from the company
in 1996 and set up Elan Motorsport Technologies. The Braselton,
Georgia-based company has built more than 300 racing cars for
Champ Car among other series, according to its website.  Dan Gurney, the 1967 Le Mans winner, is among Panoz’s
partners on the DeltaWing project.  Nissan Motor Co Ltd. (7201)  is
providing the engine. The design by British race-car creator Ben
Bowlby was rejected as a new formula by the U.S.-based Indy
Racing League in 2010.  Younger Franchitti  “A lot of people, looking at the design, thought this car
might fly or not corner,” Panoz said by telephone from Paris.
“We did not fly in testing.”  Scotland ’s Marino Franchitti, younger brother of three-time
Indy 500 winner Dario, will drive the Deltawing with  Germany ’s
Michael Krumm and Satoshi Motoyama of  Japan .  Toyota is spending as much as 40 million euros ($50
million) on entering its TS030 hybrid at Le Mans and six other
endurance races this year, according to Leupen. Ullrich declined
to comment on Audi’s budget. Audi, the first winner with a
diesel engine in 2006, is also fielding a diesel as backup to
its hybrid R18 E-tron Quattro. The DeltaWing project has cost as
little as $5 million, Panoz says.  The hybrids can use a power boost of recouped energy in
selected zones at the expense of holding  58 liters of fuel , two
liters less than the maximum.  Showroom ‘Irrelevance’  Strictly speaking, the DeltaWing can’t win Le Mans because
it has different technical specifications. The race organizer
has handed it Garage 56, set aside for experimental vehicles.  While a victory for Audi or Toyota’s racers may boost their
brands, it’s unlikely to increase their hybrid car sales because
neither is a fuel-saving breakthrough, said Simon Empson,
managing director of  Broadspeed.com , a discount car website
based in the U.K.  “It’s an irrelevance in the showrooms,” Empson said.
There is no evidence of demand for lighter cars like the
DeltaWing, either, he added. “If anything, people want bigger,
heavier cars.”  Panoz took the first electric hybrid to Le Mans in 1998.
The Panoz Q9 had such a powerful electric current it would swipe
credit cards from people’s pockets, he said. It didn’t qualify
because of a mechanical fault.  “Now I want to show we don’t need electric motors, just
good aerodynamics,” Panoz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  