-- Delta CEO Says Airline to Pressure Prices as Jet Fuel Seller
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-06-15T19:38:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/delta-ceo-says-airline-to-pressure-prices-as-jet-fuel-seller-1-.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  plans to become
a seller in the U.S. jet fuel market and push prices lower after
acquiring a refinery in Pennsylvania, the airline’s Chief
Executive Officer  Richard Anderson  said today.  The company’s Monroe Energy LLC subsidiary purchased the
185,000-barrel-a-day Trainer plant near Philadelphia for $150
million on April 30. The world’s second-biggest airline spent
about $11.8 billion last year on fuel, accounting for 36 percent
of operating expenses, according to Delta’s annual report.  “We’re probably the largest private purchaser of jet fuel
in the  United States  but we don’t get to participate in the
pricing function,” Anderson told reporters after the Delta’s
annual meeting in  New York . “It’s our intention to begin to
participate in the pricing function and put a lot of downward
pressure on the cost of refining a barrel of  jet fuel .”  The Trainer  refinery  will produce 52,000 barrels a day of
jet fuel, according to slides published in an April 30 8-K
filing by the company. Delta will exchange all other products
with  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Phillips 66 (PSX)  for an additional 120,000 barrels a
day of jet fuel in other locations around the country. The
airline consumes about 210,000 barrels a day in the U.S.  “What this does is gives us the opportunity to participate
in the Platts function for setting the price of jet fuel,”
Anderson said.  Price assessments by Platts, the energy information
division of McGraw-Hill Cos., are used as a benchmark for fuel
delivery contracts. Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News,
competes with Platts in providing energy-markets news and
information.  Refinery Upgrades  Delta said it will spend $100 million to convert the
refinery to increase production of jet fuel to 32 percent from
14 percent. Most of the gain in jet will come at the expense of
gasoline output, which will drop to 43 percent from 52 percent.  “Keeping this refinery online will increase supplies in
the market and push down prices,” said  Sander Cohan , a global
transportation fuels analyst and principal with Energy Security
Analysis Inc. “This refinery is one of many so it’s unlikely
that it’ll have a major effect.”  The price for jet fuel in New York Harbor has averaged
$17.14 a barrel (41 cents a gallon) over  Brent crude  this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A one-cent difference in the jet fuel price equals $40
million for Delta on an annual basis, Eric Torbenson, a
spokesman for the company, said in a telephone interview.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  shut the Trainer refinery Sept. 30 and was
planning to permanently shut the plant if it didn’t find a buyer
within six months. The Houston-based company spun off its
refining, pipeline and chemical assets into Phillips 66, which
began trading in New York on May 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 