-- Disney’s Renewal Features Cars, CEO Horse Race: Retail
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-06-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/disney-renewal-features-cars-and-ceo-horse-race-retail.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  opens the Cars Land
attraction in Anaheim, California, to the public today, part of
its largest investment ever in the theme-park unit. The
implications are broad for both earnings and succession at the
world’s largest entertainment company.  The 12-acre addition at California Adventure, next-door to
Disneyland, takes guests through the fictional town of Radiator
Springs from the two “Cars” movies. More than 4,000 tons of
steel and 280,000 feet (85 kilometers) of rock work were
installed, including mountains shaped like vintage Cadillac tail
fins.  The $1.1 billion remodeling of California Adventure,
including Cars Land, is part of a multiyear expansion of the
parks and resorts division that adds two more  cruise ships ,
attractions in  Orlando  and  Hong Kong  and a $4.4 billion Shanghai
park scheduled for 2015. Disney has raised prices in Anaheim in
a bet the new rides will draw consumers even as the economic
recovery remains tentative.  It’s a crucial test, too, for Thomas Staggs, who moved over
to lead the parks unit in 2010 after 12 years as Disney’s chief
financial officer. He is seen by investors, along with Chief
Financial Officer Jay Rasulo, as a contender to be named chief
executive of Burbank, California-based Disney when  Robert Iger 
relinquishes the title in March 2015.  “Bob had to take Tom out of his comfort zone to give him
operational experience at what is the soul of the company, the
parks,” said  David Miller , an analyst who follows Disney for
Caris & Co. in Los Angeles. “If you took a poll of 100
portfolio managers, 55 percent would say Staggs gets the job, 45
percent Rasulo. Mr. Staggs has the leg up.”  Profit Margin  Staggs said he is content where he is.  “You get to open a park like this, makes me feel like I’ve
got one of best jobs in the world,” Staggs said at a June 13
event at Cars Land. “I’m not anxious about going anywhere
anytime soon, so as long as I can keep doing this I’m happy.”  Parks and resorts is Disney’s second-largest unit, after
its television networks, accounting for 29 percent of sales and
18 percent of  profit  in fiscal 2011. The networks, led by ESPN
and Disney Channel, generated almost four times the parks unit’s
$1.55 billion in profit, on about 1 1/2 times its $11.8 billion
in revenue.  The choices to fix  California  Adventure and invest in other
leisure businesses were made over the past five years, even as
the company was offering discounts to entice recession-conscious
travelers to its parks, Iger said in an interview.  “It’s a long game, it’s not a short game,” he said. “The
decisions were made when we thought the opportunities existed
and the time was right.”  Investment ‘Bubble’  The company invested $2.7 billion in its parks division
last year, up from $933 million in 2008, according to Disney
filings.  “We’ve got a real bubble in terms of investment, but also
a real surge in opportunity going forward,” Staggs told
Bloomberg Television at the launch of the Disney Fantasy cruise
ship in March.  Disney rose 2.1 percent to $47.18 yesterday in  New York ,
and has gained 25 percent this year.  Todd Juenger, an analyst who follows the stock at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. in New York, said he expects operating income
at the parks division to top $2.4 billion next year, a 55
percent increase from 2011, as global tourism rises and Disney’s
new projects come online.  Attendance at the parks worldwide climbed 5 percent in the
company’s second fiscal quarter that ended March 31, while
revenue in the unit gained 10 percent to $2.9 billion.
Attendance at Disneyland set a record, the company said.  California ‘Brand’  California Adventure was considered a flop after it opened
in 2001. The 67-acre park, 30 miles (48 kilometers) southeast of
 Los Angeles , was designed as a tribute to the company’s home
state, with reproductions of Monterey’s wharf and Yosemite
National Park.  “The feeling was that California could be a brand; that
may have been where they went off track,” said John Gerner, a
theme-park industry consultant in Richmond, Virginia. “It just
doesn’t compare to the popularity of the Disney characters.”  Attendance last year, at 6.3 million visitors, was one-
third of that of Disneyland, according to an annual report
published by the Themed Entertainment Association and the
consulting firm Aecom.  The company’s strategic goal for California Adventure is
still to persuade guests to extend their stay at its properties
while relieving crowding at Disneyland, Rasulo said in an
interview. This time, however, the park is less California and
more Disney, including characters from Pixar Animation Studios,
which the company acquired for $7 billion in 2006.  Road Trip  To create Cars Land, Disney designers embarked on a road
trip across the western U.S., incorporating 1950s roadside
architecture into park features such as the Cozy Cone Motel
snack stands.  Pixar chief  John Lasseter , who helped with the design, said
park landscapers found a plant that blossoms to look like a
traffic safety cone.  “You look at this and say ‘How did they do that?’’ he said
in an interview. ‘‘The level of detail is unbelievable.’’  In addition to Cars Land, the California Adventure remodel
includes a new entrance designed to look like Los Angeles when
company founder  Walt Disney  first arrived there in 1923. Another
recent addition: Ariel’s Undersea Adventure, which opened last
year and features characters from the 1989 Disney film ‘‘The
 Little Mermaid .’’  Actor Cheech Marin, who voiced Ramone in the ‘‘Cars’’ films,
said cast members spent three hours previewing the
attractions. ‘‘All anybody could say was, ‘Wow, wow, wow,’’’ 
Marin said in an interview. ‘‘It’s truly mind-blowing. It’s
going to be a huge hit.”  Raising Prices  There’s precedent in big theme-park investments leading to
a bump in visitors, Gerner said.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal
Island of Adventure park in Orlando saw a 29 percent attendance
increase to 7.6 million last year after opening its Wizarding
World of  Harry Potter  in 2010.  Disney raised prices on its two Anaheim parks 8.8 percent
to $87 in May. The park-hopper ticket, which includes admission
to both Disneyland and California Adventure in one day, rose 19
percent to $125 and the annual pass for non-Southern California
residents climbed 30 percent to $649.  Disneyland daily admission prices have risen from $10.25 in
1981, an average annual increase of 7 percent over the past 31
years, compared with a 2.9 percent increase for the  Consumer
Price Index , according to Bloomberg research.  “We try to keep the price-value relationship in our parks
intact,” Staggs said. “We weigh those decisions very
carefully.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  