-- ECB Deposit Rate of 0% Said to Be no Obstacle to Lower Benchmark
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-06-15T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/ecb-deposit-rate-of-0-said-to-be-no-obstacle-to-lower-benchmark.html
European Central Bank policy makers
have overcome a key concern about taking the  benchmark interest
rate  below 1 percent, two euro-area central bank officials said.  The likelihood that such a move would also involve cutting
the rate the ECB pays banks on overnight deposits from 0.25
percent is no longer an obstacle for a majority of the Governing
Council, said the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the deliberations aren’t public. The deposit rate
traditionally moves in tandem with the benchmark and policy
makers have been reluctant to take it to zero out of concern it
would discourage interbank lending. A rate cut isn’t certain,
the officials said. An ECB spokeswoman declined to comment.  The deposit rate has served as the ECB’s de facto
benchmark, determining borrowing costs in financial markets
since the central bank began providing financial institutions
with unlimited liquidity after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008. Cutting it could reduce the incentive for
banks to lend to each other by lowering their return, which in
turn could hurt the money markets the ECB is trying to revive.  Still, as  Europe ’s debt crisis worsens and inflation
pressures wane, the case for further monetary easing is growing,
raising the issue of whether to take the deposit rate to zero or
even lower.  Inflation Outlook Key  “Such steps would be warranted only in the face of clear
downward risks to  price stability ,” ECB Executive Board member
Benoit Coeure said in a speech on Feb. 19. “A switch to zero or
negative  interest rates  bears some risks, mainly of a
microeconomic nature, which would have to be weighed against
potential benefits in terms of additional macroeconomic
stimuli.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday there is “no
inflation risk in any euro-area country” and inflation
expectations remain well anchored. He said after the June 6
policy meeting that “a few” ECB officials had called for a
rate cut, fueling speculation the bank could act as soon as next
month.  Latest data suggest the 17-nation euro economy is
contracting under the weight of a debt crisis that last weekend
pushed  Spain  into seeking a bailout for its banks. Spain’s 10-
year bond yield is at a euro-era high close to 7 percent.  Greek Election  Greeks vote in an election tomorrow that could hand power
to parties opposed to the conditions of its bailout, raising the
risk of the country’s exit from the euro.  Concerns over the effect of a lower deposit rate on the
profitability on commercial banks and money-market funds may be
outweighed by the need to cut the cost of borrowing, one of the
central bank officials said.  “There have already been discussions about lowering the
deposit rate,” ECB council member  Ewald Nowotny  told Boersen-
Zeitung in an interview published yesterday. A zero deposit rate
would encourage banks to “make money available in the  interbank
market  and not hoard it at the ECB,” Nowotny said.  Banks with excess liquidity, such as those in  Germany , have
been parking the cash in the ECB’s deposit facility for 0.25
percent rather than taking the risk of lending it at the
overnight market rate of around 0.33 percent. They deposited
699.6 billion euros ($884 billion) with the ECB on June 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  