-- ECB’s Asset-Backed Bond Project Is Boycotted by Dutch Banks
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-06-15T14:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/ecb-s-asset-backed-bond-project-is-boycotted-by-dutch-banks.html
A Dutch financial services lobby
group said its members are boycotting a European Central Bank
project to improve transparency in the 1.9 trillion-euro ($2.4
trillion) asset-backed  securities market .  Robin Fransman, a director at the Holland Financial Centre
in Amsterdam, said a commercial company shouldn’t have been
chosen to run the initiative. Dutch banks are the euro region’s
biggest sellers of asset-backed securities, according to data
compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The European DataWarehouse, tasked by the ECB to collect
details of underlying loans in ABS used as collateral for
central bank funding, started selling shares in January to
finance the project. The Dutch are in a stronger position than
other lenders in other euro-region countries because they’re
less reliant on collateralized central bank loans.  “We don’t understand why a commercial company has been set
up for this purpose, the Dutch sector prefers a non-profit
organization or an industry-run foundation to run the project,”
Fransman said.  Lenders in  Europe  pledged about 351 billion euros of ABS
last year, making the asset class the second-most popular form
of collateral after loans and deposits, ECB data show.  Financial firms in the Netherlands had deposited a net 16
billion euros at the end of April with the country’s central
bank, which compares with average net borrowing of  264 billion
euros  by Spanish institutions in the same month, central bank
data show.  Access to All  Banks will from this year start to provide the ECB with
details of loans backing asset-backed securities. The Frankfurt-
based central bank is seeking to improve the quality of the
assets it takes on as loan security while improving confidence
among investors.  The European DataWarehouse, which is advised by privately
held Link Financial Ltd. in  London , will charge a fee to collect
the loan-level data on the ECB’s behalf and make it available to
other clients, a person familiar with matter said in March.  Dutch banks instead will disclose the information requested
by the ECB in a central depository website “accessible to all”
set up by the Holland Financial Centre starting Sept. 1,
Fransman said.  The ECB said the European DataWarehouse is a market-led
initiative. The Frankfurt-based bank has sought participants’
input, including public consultations, which it has taken into
account in setting the loan information criteria, according to
an ECB spokesman, who asked not to be identified citing the
bank’s policy.  Data Timetable  The ECB’s data requirement will start by the end of this
year and initially cover loans in residential mortgage-backed
securities,  Fernando Gonzalez , the head of risk strategy in the
central bank’s risk management office, said June 13. Information
on commercial mortgage-backed debt and bonds backed by loans to
businesses will start in 2013, while reporting for other classes
will begin in 2014.  Banks create ABS by pooling the proceeds of consumer and
property loans, typically allowing them to raise money more
cheaply than by issuing unsecured debt.  Holland Financial Centre’s  participants  range from banks
and insurers to law firms and supervisors including the Dutch
securities regulator AFM and the Dutch central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  