-- Technicolor of ‘Wizard of Oz’ Fame Loses LCD Patent Dispute
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-06-15T22:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/technicolor-of-wizard-of-oz-fame-loses-lcd-patent-dispute-1-.html
Technicolor SA’s (TCH)  Thomson Licensing
unit lost its U.S. patent-infringement cases over liquid-crystal
displays in computer and television screens against Taiwanese
manufacturers including  AU Optronics Corp. (2409)  and  Chimei Innolux
Corp. (3481)   The companies didn’t violate Thomson Licensing’s patent
rights, the U.S. International Trade Commission said today in a
notice posted on the agency’s website. Thomson had sought an
order that would block imports of certain LCD products that
infringe its patents, counting on the threat of an import ban to
force the companies into a licensing agreement.  Patent licensing is the most profitable business for Paris-
based Technicolor, which invented the color process used in
“The Wizard of Oz” and other classic movies. The money-losing
company is relying on its 40,000 video, audio and optics patents
to finance a turnaround.  Thibault Peulen, a Technicolor spokesman, said the company
had no comment.  Miaoli, Taiwan-based Chimei Innolux is Taiwan’s largest
maker of LCDs and Hsinchu, Taiwan-based AU Optronics is second.  “This marks a complete victory for CMI at the commission,
and we could not be more happy for them,” Chimei’s lawyer,
Warren Heit of  White & Case  in  Palo Alto , California, said in a
statement.  MStar Semiconductor Inc. (3697) ,  Qisda Corp. (2352) , BenQ Corp. and
Realtek Semiconductor Corp. also were named in the two
complaints, which were consolidated because they involved the
same issue and some overlapping patents.  Xerox Patent  ITC Judge  Robert Rogers  in January found that one of five
patents in the case was infringed by certain Chimei products and
any Qisda or BenQ monitors that incorporated the Chimei LCDs.
The patent found to be infringed was issued in 1997 to Xerox
Corp. and covers a way to reduce distortions in LCDs. The other
companies were cleared by the judge.  The commission said there was no infringement of that
former Xerox patent. It upheld a finding of no violation of
three other patents, and said the fourth, which expires Aug. 26,
wasn’t infringed, though it ordered the judge to review its
validity.  Notice of the agency’s findings was posted on its
electronic docket today. The full ruling will become public
after both sides have a chance to redact confidential business
information.  Competing Offers  Technicolor, which has been shifting business from outdated
film processes to digital techniques and software for movie-
making, helped with special effects for the Harry Potter film
series.  Investors JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Vector Capital Corp.
have made competing offers to boost their holdings in
Technicolor to as much as 30 percent through a capital increase.
Shareholders are scheduled to choose one of the two deals on the
June 20 annual general meeting. Both investors have said they
support management’s patent strategy.  The cases are In the Matter of Certain Liquid Crystal
Display Devices including Monitors, Televisions and Modules,
337-741 and 337-749, U.S. International Trade Commission
( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  