-- Egyptians Vote in Contest Between Islamist, Mubarak Aide
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   O l a   G a l a l
-- 2012-06-16T14:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/egyptians-vote-in-contest-between-islamist-mubarak-aide.html
Egyptians cast ballots for their
first president since  Hosni Mubarak  was ousted last year, in a
runoff election widely portrayed as a choice between reviving
the old regime and endorsing a new Islamist one.  The contest between Ahmed Shafik, who briefly served as
Mubarak’s last premier, and the Muslim Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi, comes two days after the country’s highest court ordered
the dissolution of parliament, where Islamists have a majority.
That raised concerns among activists that the ruling military
may engineer a return of the ousted regime.  Mursi “is the better of two bad options,” Gamal Abdel-
Azim, a 49-year-old physician, said as he queued at a polling
station in the Cairo suburb of Nasr City. “I was against Hosni
Mubarak’s regime, so it doesn’t make sense for me to choose the
return of the old regime in an even stronger way.”  While the first round of voting last month had been billed
as the country’s first free and fair presidential election, the
ruling generals and election officials have warned of stiff
penalties for anyone who tries to rig or disrupt the vote.
Several local and international groups, including the  Carter
Center , are observing the ballot.  Interior Minister Mohamed Ibrahim said authorities had
received information some people planned to disguise themselves
as police or military personnel to “carry out hostile acts,”
the official Middle East News Agency reported today.  Vanishing Ink  Authorities arrested several people who were allegedly
handing out pens to voters in Alexandria that contained
vanishing ink, state television reported. MENA reported that
only pens made available by the election commission can be used.  Many Egyptians have voiced unease about the two candidates,
who were among the most divisive politicians to stand in the
first round. Shafik and Mursi only garnered a combined total of
about 50 percent of the vote last month. Ahead of this round,
calls for a boycott mounted, leading officials and candidates to
urge Egyptians to vote. Polling stations will stay open an extra
hour, until 9 p.m., MENA reported.  The Brotherhood seized on the June 14 court rulings, which
also included throwing out a law that would have driven Shafik
from the race, as evidence of efforts to restore Mubarak’s
regime. Both the group and youth activists described the
decision, along with the military’s newly-granted powers to
arrest civilians, as a “coup.”  ‘Period of Silence’  The two-day vote “comes amid methodical attempts to thwart
the Egyptian revolution,” Mursi’s campaign said in an e-mailed
statement today, even though yesterday marked the start of the
so-called “period of silence” that bans campaigning.  Activists had called for a mass rally yesterday to protest
the rulings. The call drew only hundreds of people to Cairo’s
 Tahrir Square , instead of the tens of thousands who rallied
during the uprising against Mubarak last year.  “We’ve had enough of protests and demonstrations and
million-man marches,” Farah Mohsen, a 24-year-old mother of
three, said in an interview in Dar el-Salam, a district in
Cairo. “I don’t want the old regime, but I also don’t want this
mess.” Mohsen, whose husband has struggled to find work for
more than a year after being fired as a driver from a tour
company, said she was voting for Shafik.  Brotherhood Support  Support for the Brotherhood, whose political arm won almost
half the seats in Parliament’s lower house, has waned amid
disputes between the party and the interim government, judiciary
and military. The state-run Al-Ahram newspaper reported today
that the Islamist-led legislature had passed 11 laws since
winning power about six months ago.  “We’ve had enough of the Brotherhood’s games,” Baher el-
Nahhas, a 37-year-old civil servant, said in an interview in
Cairo, as he waited to cast his vote for Shafik. “This country
needs leadership and progress, and all they’ve done is slow us
down after the uprising.”  About 50 million Egyptians are eligible to vote, with about
half this number turning out in the first round that narrowed
the candidate field down from 13 to the current two.  The court rulings have raised concerns that political
turmoil will persist since the president will likely take office
without a constitution that defines his powers.  Fitch Ratings yesterday cut  Egypt ’s foreign-currency debt by
one step to B+, four levels below investment grade, citing
“increased uncertainties surrounding the political transition”
after the verdict. Foreign reserves dropped by more than half
since the beginning of last year and a $3.2 billion loan from
the International Monetary Fund loan is yet to be approved.  Bond Losses  Egypt’s bonds extended losses yesterday and credit risk
jumped the most in almost a month after the June 14 rulings.
Five-year credit default swaps rose 22 basis points to 648,
according to CMA, which is owned by GME Group Inc. and compiles
data from the privately negotiated market.  Dina Darwish, a 23-year-old graphic designer, said she
planned to invalidate her vote by marking both names on her
ballot.  “Neither candidate is good,” Darwish, who supported
socialist candidate Hamdeen Sabahi in the first round, said in
an interview in Cairo. “The Muslim Brotherhood is not the
solution, and voting for Shafik would be like going back to the
very beginning.”  Election Pledges  Mursi cast himself as the “candidate of the revolution,”
signaling he may appoint a Christian vice president, while
trying to allay concerns that he would curtail individual
freedoms. Shafik has run on pledges to restore law and order and
keep Egypt secular. He sought to appeal to youth activists by
promising that he would not censor the Internet.  The military has repeatedly said it is not backing any of
the candidates, though the developments over the past few days
raised suspicions among many voters.  “Is this a coincidence?” said Mohamed el-Haj, a 47-year-
old shop clerk and Mursi supporter, referring to the timing of
the court verdict and the handing of new powers to the military
to arrest civilians. “The military has been staging a play all
along and the final act is this election that will bring Shafik
to power.”  -- With assistance from Ahmed A. Namatalla and Mariam Fam in
Cairo. Editors:  Ben Holland ,  Karl Maier , Digby Lidstone, Nasreen Seria.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  