-- Melco Crown Said to Seek About $2.2 Billion in Bond and Loan
-- B y   W e n d y   M o c k
-- 2012-06-15T04:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/melco-crown-said-to-seek-about-2-2-billion-in-bond-and-loan-1-.html
Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , a
venture between Australian billionaire  James Packer  and a son of
gambling tycoon  Stanley Ho , is seeking to raise about $2.2
billion through a loan and bond sale, two people familiar with
the matter said.  The borrower is seeking a loan of about $1.4 billion from a
group of about nine banks and is also considering a bond of
about $800 million, the people said, asking not to be identified
because the details are private. The final size of the loan and
bond hasn’t been decided, they said.  Maggie Ma, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Melco Crown,
couldn’t immediately comment when asked about the financing by
telephone and didn’t respond to two subsequent e-mails.  Proceeds will be used to fund Melco Crown’s Studio City
project in Macau, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Studio City will be an integrated resort with a “ theme and
demographic focus ” aimed at differentiating it from the
company’s existing portfolio of assets, which include Macau’s
City of Dreams and Mocha Clubs, according to Melco Crown’s
website.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., Bank of America
Corp., Bank of China Ltd., Credit Agricole SA, Citigroup Inc.,
Deutsche Bank AG, Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are among senior banks on the
loan, the data show. UBS AG is also joining the financing, the
people said today.  A similar group of banks will have lead roles on the bond,
according to the people. Melco Crown’s $600 million of 10.25
percent notes due 2018 are yielding 8.185 percent, Standard
Chartered Plc prices on Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Mock in  Hong Kong  at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  