-- Emerging Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Gain Since February
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-06-15T22:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/emerging-stocks-head-for-biggest-weekly-advance-since-february.html
Emerging-market stocks posted the
biggest five-day advance in four months on speculation central
banks will take steps to shelter economies from Europe’s debt
crisis.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 1.3 percent to 925.22
by the close in New York, extending its five-day gain to 2.2
percent, the most since the week of Feb. 3. Energy companies led
the advance as OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA rallied 5.7
percent in Sao Paulo. OAO Mechel surged 9.4 percent to lift
Russia’s Micex Index to the highest level in a month. Brazil’s
Bovespa posted the biggest weekly advance since February, led by
gains for  Gafisa SA (GFSA3) , the Brazilian homebuilder.  Greek elections on June 17 may determine if the country
upholds austerity conditions attached to international aid and
could lead to the first ouster from the euro area. Industrial
production in the U.S. unexpectedly fell in May for the second
time in three months and the Thompson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment for June fell
more than expected. Manufacturing in the  New York  region
expanded in June at the slowest pace in seven months.  “The markets are hopeful that Greek elections will bring
some sort of fiscal discipline and that policy makers will react
more to weakness in the  euro zone ,” Bernie Horn, president of
Polaris Capital Management LLC, said by phone from  Boston  today.
“Despite the fact the U.S. data hasn’t been great, the U.S. is
showing it’s getting its competitiveness back and that’s
ultimately good for the U.S. and the world economy.”  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  gauge has added 1 percent this
year and trades at a multiple of 10 times estimated earnings,
compared with 11.9 for a developed-nation index, which has
gained 2.2 percent this year.  Energy Gains  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF tracking developing-nation shares,
rose 1.8 percent to $38.99, the highest in a month.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets  ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, fell 8.4 percent to 31.59.  Energy companies added 2.6 percent to 640.60, the most
since Jan. 3.  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI) , Asia’s largest exporter of
power-station coal, jumped 4.9 percent after falling to the
lowest level since 2009 yesterday.  Commodity Producers  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
rose 0.1 percent to 582.62 in New York. Copper rallied for a
second day on bets economic stimulus from central banks will
boost metals demand. Crude oil also rose for a second day to
$84.03 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Russia’s benchmark index rose 3.2 percent for a fourth
consecutive week of gains, the longest winning streak in four
months.  Mechel (MTLR) , Russia’s biggest producer of coal for
steelmakers, rose the most since Nov. 30.  The ruble appreciated 0.2 percent against the dollar.
Investors should buy the currency against the dollar to take
advantage of what is likely to be a temporary bounce in risk
assets following the Greek elections,  Bhanu Baweja , emerging-
market strategist at UBS AG in London, wrote in an e-mailed
note.  Brazil’s Bovespa added 3.1 percent in Sao Paulo this week.
 Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4) , Brazil’s second-biggest
airline, jumped 9.3 percent today, extending its weekly gain to
22 percent. Gafisa SA, a Brazilian homebuilder, rose 22 percent
this week, the sharpest five-day gain since April 2009. OGX
Petroleo, a Brazilian  oil company , added 5.7 percent today.  Turkish Streak  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BIL) , the world’s biggest commodity producer,
gained 1.9 percent in  South Africa .  New World Resources Plc (NWR) , the
biggest Czech producer of coking coal, jumped 6.1 percent.  The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  gained 0.4 percent in
Johannesburg and the  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  advanced 1.2 percent in Warsaw.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  advanced 0.2 percent in
Istanbul, gaining for an 11th day, the longest winning streak
since 1993. The  BUX Index (BUX)  jumped 2.4 percent in Hungary to the
highest since May 11.  Emerging-market funds lured inflows of $920 million during
the week ended June 13 after China cut  interest rates  and  Spain 
asked euro-region governments over the weekend for as much as
100 billion euros ($126 billion) to help shore up its banking
system, according to a Citigroup Inc. report today, which cited
EPFR Global.  The Sensitive Index, or  Sensex (SENSEX) , gained 1.6 percent in
Mumbai to the highest since May 3. Vietnam’s VN Index surged 1.8
percent after Deputy Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc said the
government will accelerate spending and boost bank lending to
bolster the economy. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  retreated 0.7
percent.  Power Failure  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , which makes up 17 percent of the
Kospi, dropped 3.5 percent. Samsung Display Co. said four lines
were halted for 11 minutes after a  power failure  yesterday.
Lines have resumed operation and potential damage from the
stoppage is being assessed, it said.  Sri Lanka’s benchmark Colombo All-Share Index rose 1.4
percent. Foreign investors are pouring record amounts of money
into Sri Lankan stocks as  valuations  drop to the lowest levels
since 2009.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 386, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  