-- England Comeback Victory Ends Sweden’s European Championship
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-15T22:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/england-comeback-victory-ends-sweden-s-european-championship-bid.html
England moved closer to a place in
the European soccer championship quarterfinals with a come-from-
behind 3-2 win against  Sweden  that ends the Scandinavian team’s
hopes of progressing in the competition.  Danny Welbeck  scored the decisive goal in the 78th minute
at Kiev’s Olympic Stadium as England rallied from a 2-1 deficit
early in the second half. Andy Carroll and Theo Walcott also
scored for England, while Sweden got an own goal from  Glen Johnson  and a score from Olof Mellberg.  “The Swedes did remarkable well to turn our 1-0 lead into
a 2-1 deficit and we had to dig very deep to find the resources
to get back into the game,” England manager  Roy Hodgson  said at
a news conference. “It’s a very important victory against a
team with many good players, and with a reputation in previous
games with England of taking the points from us.”  England’s four points ties it atop Group D with France,
which defeated tournament co-host Ukraine 2-0 in a match that
was interrupted by heavy rain and lightning. Ukraine has three
points and meets England in the final group game in four days,
when  France  plays Sweden. The top two teams in each group
advance to the quarterfinals.  Hodgson elected to pick 6-foot-3 (1.90-meter) striker
Carroll in place of Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain in an effort to take
advantage of Sweden’s recent vulnerability to aerial balls.
Sweden had conceded six headed goals in its previous seven
games.  Carroll’s Header  The selection proved a good one when Carroll sprinted clear
of Andreas Granqvist before powering in a header off Liverpool
teammate  Steven Gerrard ’s 45-meter cross in the 23rd minute.  In the buildup to the game, England’s players said the team
needed to improve its passing after giving up 61 percent of the
ball in its opening 1-1 tie with France. By halftime they’d
completed 40 more passes than the Swedes and could have doubled
the lead when  Ashley Cole  played in Ashley Young, who dragged
his shot wide of the near post.  Sweden, which lost its opener 2-1 to Ukraine, improved
after halftime and profited twice from free kicks given away by
England. Johnson turned the ball into his own net in the 49th
minute after goalkeeper  Joe Hart ’s save from Mellberg’s shot
rebounded onto the Liverpool defender.  Mellberg then rose unchallenged 10 minutes later to head in
Sebastien Larsson’s free kick after Milner brought down Martin
Olsson to give Sweden a 2-1 lead.  Walcott, brought on in the second half in place of Milner,
tied the game in the 64th minute with a shot from the edge of
the area that wrong-footed goalkeeper Andreas Isaksson. The
Arsenal winger then sent in a cross with 12 minutes remaining
that Welbeck flicked using the back of his heel past Isaksson
for the winning goal.  ‘Different Things’  “Once the chance comes around in training you have got to
try different things,” 21-year-old striker Welbeck told
reporters after scoring his second career goal for  England . “So
once the chance came today I already knew that was what I was
going to do. It is quite an important goal in the circumstance.
I am just trying to improve and get more goals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Olympic Stadium in Kiev at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  