-- Hennes & Mauritz Sales Jump as Store Openings Fuel Growth
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-06-15T07:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/hennes-mauritz-sales-jump-as-store-openings-fuel-growth-1-.html
Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  reported a 15
percent gain in second-quarter sales that beat analysts’
estimates as the clothing retailer opened more stores and kept
prices down in an effort to gain customers.  Revenue excluding value-added tax rose to 31.7 billion
kronor ($4.5 billion) through May 31, the Stockholm-based
company said today, exceeding the 31.3 billion-kronor  average
estimate  of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Analysts will look to first-half earnings due on June 20 to
see whether the sales growth was achieved at the expense of
reduced profitability. H&M in March reported first-quarter
profit that missed estimates as increased textile costs and
markdowns led to the weakest profitability in eight years. The
retailer is adding stores in countries such as  China  and the
U.S. to help offset a slowdown in European  consumer spending .  The sales improvement “is likely to have been driven at
least in part by price investment -- the environment in European
markets remains promotional -- and as such we continue to see
gross margin risk at the upcoming first-half results,” Gillian Hilditch, an analyst at JPMorgan Cazenove, said in a note today.  H&M rose as much as 2.6 percent in Stockholm trading and
was up 1.8 percent at 224 kronor at 9:16 a.m. The  stock  has
gained 1.3 percent this year, lagging behind a 22 percent
advance in Spanish competitor  Inditex SA. (ITX)   Esprit Plunge  Inditex  shares  have gained 14 percent this week after the
owner of the Zara chain said on June 13 that first-quarter
profit rose 30 percent. In contrast, shares of Hong Kong-based
competitor  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330)  have plummeted 20 percent this
week, the steepest weekly retreat in nine months, after the
company’s chairman and chief executive officer both resigned.  H&M’s sales in May climbed 12 percent including VAT, the
company said today, while revenue at outlets open at least a
year rose 3 percent in the month, the company said today.  The total number of stores increased to 2,575 as of May 31
from 2,297 in the same month last year, H&M said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  