-- Hentsch Pessimistic on Swiss Banks Future Amid Tax Crackdown
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-06-15T17:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/hentsch-pessimistic-on-swiss-banking-future-amid-tax-crackdown.html
The Swiss financial industry may
face a bleak future unless bankers who traditionally relied on
storing undeclared money for clients get better at investing
their funds, the head of Banque Benedict Hentsch & Cie. said.  “I’m not at all optimistic about the next five years,”
Benedict Hentsch, chairman of the bank, told the  British-Swiss
Chamber of Commerce  today at a meeting in Geneva. “I don’t
think we are good at asset management,” he added, referring to
companies across the industry.  Hentsch, whose family members have been bankers in Geneva
for seven generations, estimates that about $3 trillion of
private wealth is managed by firms in  Switzerland . He said about
one-third of that sum is undeclared money that’s been kept
secret from government tax collectors and is now at risk as the
Swiss privacy advantage erodes.  Swiss banks are under pressure as crackdowns on offshore
wealth centers encourage clients resident in other countries to
consider repatriating funds or give up a chunk of their assets
deposited abroad under new international agreements. Switzerland
is in talks with the U.S. to resolve a  Department of Justice  tax
probe of 11 financial firms, and has also signed accords with
 Germany , the U.K. and  Austria  that will oblige its banks to
withhold tax from customers domiciled in those countries.  Wake-Up Call  Bankers need a “wake-up call” to focus more on delivering
a balance of profitability while protecting clients’ funds and
keeping them invested in enough liquid assets, said Hentsch, a
former president of the  Swiss Private Bankers Association . Swiss
firms should consider joint ventures with asset managers in
other countries, hiring them to manage clients’ funds, he said.  “Swiss secrecy has helped the accumulation of wealth,”
said  Hentsch , who spent 10 years working in  Brazil  for JPMorgan
Chase & Co. earlier in his career. “We are not asset managers.
We are asset keepers.”  Hentsch’s concerns were echoed in a separate speech today
by Nicolas Pictet, a managing partner at  Pictet & Cie .,
Switzerland’s largest closely held bank.  “Rarely in the past has the political pressure on the
Swiss financial center been as heavy as today,” Pictet told the
Swiss Private Bankers Association, which he heads, in a  speech 
at Geneva’s International Museum of the Reformation. “Once a
market is lost, it may not be recoverable for a long time.”  Growing Competition  As global  money-management  centers compete, Switzerland
risks being left behind if it doesn’t branch out into new
fields, Pictet said at the annual general meeting of the 12-
member private bankers’ group,  Pictet said the industry should consider adding more
institutional asset management,  fund management  and
sophisticated depository functions, in addition to those wealth-
management services now offered to individual private clients.  Challenges facing Swiss banks include “an avalanche of
legislative and regulatory changes” from  Europe  and the U.S.
and difficulties in foreign  market access  that could lead to the
loss of 15 percent to 30 percent of jobs in private money
management, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  