-- EPA Proposes Tougher Rules on Soot Opposed by Industry
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-06-15T18:59:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/epa-to-seek-tougher-rules-on-soot-opposed-by-industry.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency proposed tougher pollution standards for soot, a step
that supporters said will protect public health and industry
groups and Republicans warned would crimp economic growth.  The annual standards for particulate matter, or microscopic
particles released from automobile exhausts, power plants or
factories, would be set from 12 to 13 micrograms per cubic meter
under a proposed rule the EPA released today. The current
standard is 15 micrograms per cubic meter. The agency said it
would issue the final rule by Dec. 14.  “To protect public health, we have to strengthen the
annual standard for fine particles,”  Gina McCarthy , EPA
assistant administrator for air and radiation, said today on a
conference call. “Particulate matter is a serious pollutant.”  The agency said it would collect comment from the public as
well as stakeholders to “determine the appropriate final
standard.” McCarthy said counties wouldn’t have to comply with
the new rule until 2020.  The standard, the subject of a lengthy court fight, would
cover particles 2.5 microns in diameter or smaller.
Environmentalists and public-health advocates said soot is among
the deadliest contaminants released into the air. It can enter
the lungs and bloodstream and lead to heart attacks, strokes and
asthma attacks, according to the American Lung Association.  ‘Right Direction’  “It’s a step in the right direction,” said Paul Cort, a
staff attorney at San Francisco-based Earthjustice, which was
among the environmental groups and states that joined the Lung
Association in seeking a lower soot standard.  Senator  Barbara Boxer , a California Democrat, said in an e-
mailed statement that the proposal to rein in “deadly toxic
soot is an important step forward” to protect public health.  Republicans had encouraged the administration to maintain
the current standard.  “Any change to these regulatory standards could result in
significant adverse economic consequences and job losses,”
Republican Representatives Fred Upton of Michigan, the chairman
of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, and Ed Whitfield of
 Kentucky , chairman of the panel’s energy and power subcommittee,
said in a statement.  Benefits Outweighed  Lobbyists for fuel refiners and other manufacturers this
week pressed officials in President  Barack Obama ’s
administration to maintain the 2006 soot-pollution standards,
using the same arguments that helped the companies halt a
rewrite of ozone rules last year.  They said the expense of the rule outweighs the benefits to
public health.  “EPA’s proposal could substantially increase costs to
states, municipalities, businesses and ultimately consumers
without justified benefits,” said Howard Feldman, director of
regulatory and scientific affairs at the  American Petroleum
Institute , a Washington-based group whose members include  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  in Irving, Texas, and  San Ramon , California-based
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)   Jeffrey Holmstead, an assistant administrator for air and
radiation at the EPA under Republican  George W. Bush , said the
rule will probably attract attention from Congress because it
could limit economic development in some areas.  “This won’t be good news for places trying to attract new
manufacturing jobs,” said Holmstead, now an energy lobbyist at
Bracewell & Giuliani LLP.  County Compliance  The EPA said 99 percent of U.S. counties are projected to
meet the proposed standard without any additional action beyond
what current and proposed clean-air rules require. Some of the
proposed rules face court challenges.  San Bernardino and Riverside counties in Southern
California won’t meet the 13 micrograms standard by 2020, and
four additional counties, in Alabama, Arizona,  Michigan  and
Montana, won’t meet the lower 12 microgram standard, according
to projections from the EPA.  Depending on the final level of the standard, the EPA
estimates a net economic benefit to the U.S. as the savings from
lower medical costs and fewer deaths outstrip the expense to
industry. Every dollar invested in pollution-control equipment
could yield $30 to $86 in benefits, the agency said.  Benefits, Costs  Net annual benefit would be $88 million to $5.9 billion,
according to EPA. Projected costs range from $2.9 million to $69
million a year, according to the EPA.  Like the ozone rules, the soot regulations don’t target
pollution from one source, and instead set general air-quality
levels that local communities and states are responsible for
meeting.  “This a tremendous win for our health and the environment
that could only be achieved by following the best science and
upholding the  Clean Air Act ,”  John Walke , clean-air director at
the  Natural Resources Defense Council , said in an e-mail.  Paul Billings, vice president for national policy and
advocacy at the Lung Association, said the new standard will
prevent thousands of premature deaths a year.  Even so, he said in an e-mail that the group will seek a
lower standard of 11 micrograms per cubic meter during the
public 63-day comment period that will follow the EPA’s
announcement.  The EPA’s staff had recommended a standard as low as 11
micrograms per cubic meter, Cort of Earthjustice said.  Ozone Retreat  Last September, Obama overruled a proposal by EPA
Administrator  Lisa Jackson  to tighten standards for ozone
nationwide, after a White House meeting with representatives
from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,  National Association of
Manufacturers  and other trade groups.  Jackson last year said the administration wouldn’t adjust
standards for larger dust particles. By law, the EPA must review
soot standards every five years, and the proposals today are a
year overdue. The Lung Association and  Rhode Island ,
Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, Massachusetts,  New Mexico ,
 Oregon ,  Vermont  and Washington sued the EPA for inaction.  The EPA filed a proposed consent decree in federal court in
Washington today, along with a request that U.S. District Judge
Robert Wilkins place the case on hold while the agency seeks
public comment.  “These new rules mark an important turning point in our
effort to ensure that federal air-quality standards adequately
protect our health and the environment,” Massachusetts Attorney
General  Martha Coakley  said in an e-mailed statement.  Eased Rules  The White House and the EPA since September have eased off
on a series of proposals aimed at cleaning up pollution from
industrial boilers, coal-fired power plants and gas drilling.
Still, the administration faced varying degrees of industry
complaints for the actions it did take.  There are five major categories of particulate  control
devices , such as scrubbers that use water or fabric filters to
capture particles, according to the EPA.  Depending on the company and the type of emissions, the EPA
proposal may require new equipment or technology to meet the
tougher standard, according to Kevin Stevens, vice president of
Houston-based  Pollution Systems , which makes industrial wet
scrubbers.  “Big utilities, petro-chemical and chemical makers,
they’ve already got equipment in place and standards in place to
get the easy chunks,” Stevens said in an interview. “To get
from one limit to the next could potentially be very
expensive.”  Until the rule is finalized, it will be hard to forecast
the impact on pollution control system makers, Stevens said.  “Obviously, making a tighter standard is going to lead to
more business for a company like ours,” Stevens said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  