-- Tesco Challenged by Union Group on Fresh & Easy Strategy
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-06-15T08:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/tesco-challenged-by-union-group-on-fresh-easy-strategy.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO)  needs to increase
transparency on its unprofitable Fresh & Easy store division,
according to a union-backed U.S. pension-advisory group that’s
seeking a review of the unit for the second consecutive year.  CtW Investment Group , which works with pension funds tied
to the Change to Win labor-union association in the U.S., said
it has “reached out” to shareholders who control 75 percent of
the Cheshunt, England-based retailer’s stock to push for
amendments to the annual report, including the call for a
review. A Tesco spokesman said the proposal is union-motivated
and CtW Investment isn’t a shareholder.  Tesco, the world’s third-largest retailer, entered the West
Coast of the U.S. in 2007 with the introduction of the Fresh &
Easy in-town store format focusing on own-brand items and fresh
food. The chain has more than 190 stores in  Arizona ,  Nevada  and
 California . Shifts in strategy and benchmarks make predicting
Fresh & Easy’s performance difficult, with total investment and
losses exceeding 1.94 billion pounds ($3 billion), and there’s
“inadequate disclosure” of costs, CtW said.  “This is an unusual action, but Change to Win believe it’s
needed to demonstrate to the board the increasing shareholder
discontent about Fresh & Easy,” the investment group said in an
e-mail.  Goal Delayed  Tesco scaled back projections for Fresh & Easy in April,
saying the brand will break even in the 12 months through
February 2014, a year later than planned. Tesco last year said
it would need 300 stores in the U.S. to break even, fewer than
the 400 originally anticipated. The plan announced in April
means Fresh & Easy will have just 230 stores by February 2013.  David Reid, Tesco’s chairman at the time, dismissed calls
calls by CtW at the 2011 annual shareholders meeting for a
strategic review of Fresh & Easy. Tesco’s 2012 annual meeting is
scheduled for June 29.  Same-store sales growth at the division slowed in the
fiscal first quarter to 3.6 percent from 12.3 percent in the
fourth quarter.  Chief Executive Officer  Philip Clarke  said June 11 that
Tesco “needs a bit more” from Fresh & Easy. The chain this
week offered a new Kitchen To Go range of 150 freshly prepared
meals such as $7.99 Texan-style pork butt for two people and a
$5.99 dish of lobster macaroni and cheese.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  