-- Metro-North Monitors Watched Websites, Not Trains, Audit Finds
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-06-15T15:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/metro-north-monitors-watched-websites-not-trains-audit-finds.html
Metro-North Railroad employees
surfed websites about firearms and Chuck E. Cheese restaurants
when they should have been monitoring train safety, an audit by
New York state Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  found.  A unit of five employees and a supervisor assigned to check
train conditions and crew performance collectively earned
$832,676 annually as they failed to log inspections of almost 30
percent of 300 rides that auditors examined from January 2009
through June 20, 2011. In 14 percent of the rides, employees
weren’t on the job, even though they were scheduled to work and
paid for those hours, according to the comptroller.  “The public got taken for a ride,” DiNapoli said today in
an e-mailed statement. “When workers in this unit did bother to
show up for their jobs, they did shoddy work or personal tasks
when they should have been ensuring that trains were operating
safely and smoothly.”  The  Metropolitan Transportation Authority , whose 8.5
million daily riders make it the biggest U.S. transit agency,
operates  New York City ’s subways, buses and the Long Island Rail
Road and Metro-North commuter lines. In November, an audit by
DiNapoli found a 30-member Metro-North unit abused overtime
rules to inflate their pay by almost $1 million and future
pension payments by $5.5 million.  Chuck E. Cheese  As trains went unchecked, workers examined in the audit
spent 6.5 hours on firearms websites and Google, and five hours
on various commercial sites, including that of  Chuck E. Cheese (CEC) ,
the Irving, Texas-based chain of family-oriented food and
entertainment centers, according to the audit.  Metro-North staff was supposed to take six train trips each
day and work an eight-hour shift, though auditors found they
averaged only four rides daily, DiNapoli said. Four members of
the unit were paid more than $170,000 each year for work that
may not have been done, he said.  Investigators also found that an assistant vice president
in charge of the unit referred a relative to a worker under her
supervision. The relative was then hired, despite receiving a
lower rating than two other applicants, and was given an $84,700
salary, about $27,000 more than was posted, auditors found. The
employee and the assistant vice president had their paychecks
deposited into the same bank account, investigators found.  Unit Disbanded  The MTA disbanded the unit in response to the audit and
folded personnel into existing departments, said DiNapoli, a 58-
year-old Democrat.  “We take these audit findings very seriously and are
working to address them,” Metro-North President Howard Permut
wrote to MTA Chairman Joseph Lhota, in a letter that was
included in the audit.  Counsel for the railroad gave three separate reprimands to
the assistant vice president and operating procedures for the
hiring of relatives were changed, DiNapoli said. The
comptroller’s office has referred the matter to the MTA’s
inspector general for further investigation, he said.  Marjorie Anders , an MTA spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail requesting comment.  In October, federal prosecutors in  Manhattan  accused 11
people of participating in a $1 billion scheme to falsely claim
disability benefits for retired Long Island Rail Road workers.
Two doctors were among those accused of recommending that
hundreds of retirees get payments from the U.S. Railroad
Retirement Board, according to the complaint.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany,  New York , at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  