-- Mets’ Appeal for Second Franchise No-Hitter Declined by MLB
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-06-15T20:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/mets-appeal-for-second-franchise-no-hitter-declined-by-mlb-1-.html
The  New York Mets ’ appeal for a
scoring change that would have resulted in the second no-hitter
in franchise history was rejected today by  Major League
Baseball .  Mets manager Terry Collins had asked that an infield hit by
the Tampa Bay Rays’ B.J. Upton two days ago be changed to an
error against third baseman  David Wright . Upton’s bouncer up the
third-base line that Wright tried to grab with his bare hand was
the lone hit off Mets pitcher R.A. Dickey in the 9-1 New York
victory.  Collins said the decision to appeal was made in support of
Dickey, a knuckleball specialist with a 10-1 record this season.  “We had a shot at a no-hitter, my pitcher never had a no-
hitter, so you give it a shot,” Collins said today in a news
conference at Citi Field in  New York . “That’s the process. We
didn’t win it; we didn’t expect to win it.”  Wright said it was “a little awkward when the team wants
an error on its own player.”  Collins disagreed.  “It wasn’t awkward at all, David normally makes that
play,” the manager said. “What the heck do we have to lose?
It’s no slap at David Wright.”  With the win, Dickey set the Mets’ consecutive scoreless
innings record of 32 2/3, passing Jerry Koosman’s 1973 mark.  “I think the asterisk beside the no-hitter would get more
attention than the no-hitter,” Dickey told reporters the
yesterday.  The Mets, who started play in 1962, didn’t get their first
no-hitter until June 1, when  Johan Santana  shutout the  St. Louis
Cardinals . There have been five no-hitters in the major leagues
this season, including two perfect games.  The Mets (35-29) open a three-game series against the
Cincinnati Reds (35-27) tonight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 