-- EU Leaders to Call for ‘Further Urgent Measures’ on Growth
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-06-15T11:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/eu-leaders-to-call-for-further-urgent-measures-to-aid-growth.html
European Union leaders will press
for new efforts to boost economic growth and improve lending
conditions when they meet later this month, according to a draft
document prepared for a June 28-29 summit in Brussels.  The 27-nation bloc will pursue growth measures at a time
when, in the words of European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , “there is no inflation risk in any European country”
and the ECB will continue to provide liquidity to the banking
system. Draghi is working with EU President  Herman Van Rompuy ,
Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker and European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  on a blueprint for further integration of
the 17-nation euro region.  This report will set out building blocks for strengthening
the euro area and economic coordination in the broader EU,
according to the draft summit document. “Recent developments”
have shown the need to take monetary union “to a further
stage,” according to the draft dated June 12, which was
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Leaders will call for “more specific building blocks” to
link budget and banking policies among the 17 nations that use
the euro, along with stronger governance of the shared currency.
Euro-area nations will meet after the full EU meeting, according
to the document.  ‘Urgent Measures’  The heads of state and government “will call for further
urgent measures aimed at boosting growth and jobs in Europe and
enhancing the financing of the economy in the short to medium
term,” according to the draft. These steps include introducing
so-called project bonds, making better use of EU infrastructure
funds and increasing the capital, and therefore lending power,
of the  European Investment Bank . The leaders also expect new
proposals in the autumn for expanding trade within the EU’s
common market.  The EU’s efforts to rein in budget deficits, shore up banks
and build a crisis-fighting firewall have not been able to quell
financial turmoil, EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said today.  “These actions have contained the crisis - but not tamed
it, not to speak of overcoming it,” Rehn said in the text of a
speech to a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. conference in Brussels. He
said further efforts to shore up the euro area could include a
move toward banking union and more budget coordination, so that
countries can consider pooling debt.  ‘Economic Sense’  “In the financial circles, few doubt that it makes
economic sense to create a deep, liquid and stable market for
 government bonds  with the joint issuance of public debt,” Rehn
said. “But this process has to provide an answer to the
concerns about moral hazard, or a possible free-riding on the
budgetary prudence and economic strength of others.”  For the Brussels summit to calm markets, it will need to
give a “clear sense” of where these initiatives are heading,
in terms of process, timing and goals, David Mackie, chief
European economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a research
note today.  “If that summit were to deliver a credible road-map to a
fiscal and banking union, it could lower borrowing costs for the
periphery, as debt restructuring and break-up risks were
reduced, and pave the way to a different fiscal objective,
focusing on deficits rather than debt, and a much easier
monetary stance,” Mackie said.  Junk Status  Spain ’s downgrade this week has brought the nation within a
hair of junk status and risks triggering contagion in  Italy  and
beyond should investors shun the bonds of the euro area’s
fourth-biggest economy.  The  yield  on Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond was at 6.88
percent at 12:24 p.m. in  Madrid . It reached a euro-era record
6.92 percent yesterday after Moody’s Investors Service slashed
the country’s rating three levels to Baa3, one step above junk.
Investors demanded 5.33 percent more to hold Spanish 10-year
debt than that of  Germany , with which it shared an AAA rating as
recently as September 2010.  Leaders at the June 28-29 summit are also set to endorse
the European Commission’s recommendations on national
governments’ budget, employment and other  economic policies ,
according to the draft document. Countries must keep cutting
budget deficits in a way that supports growth, while making
efforts to revive lending and tackle unemployment, according to
the paper.  The summit will start with a discussion on  Europe ’s 2014-
2020 budget planning with the European Parliament, a process
that aims to wrap up this year. The leaders also will call for
stronger efforts to promote trade, improve tax collection and
fight tax evasion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  