-- EU Plan to End Sugar Limits Pits France Against the U.K.
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-15T17:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/eu-plan-to-end-sugar-limits-pits-france-against-the-u-k-.html
(Corrects location of meeting in first paragraph.)  European Union proposals to change
rules on sugar output and usage will pit  France , the biggest
food producer in the bloc, against the U.K. next week when
members of the European Parliament meet in Brussels.  Sugar quotas that limit production should expire Sept. 30,
2015, EU Agriculture Commissioner Dacian Ciolos proposed in
October. The European Parliament will consider on June 18 and
June 19 whether to end that policy that caused sugar supply
shortages in the bloc for the past two years.  Sugar beet growers backed by France oppose the plan, saying
they need at least until 2020 to become more competitive, while
the U.K. says the proposal will allow farmers to grow their
business. While international prices have fallen 20 percent in
 London  over the past year, white sugar in the EU averaged 711
euros ($898) a metric ton in March, the highest since at least
July 2006, commission data as of May 3 show. An EU sugar users’
group backed by Kraft Foods Inc. opposes France’s plan.  “European farmers are going to have huge opportunities to
feed an increasingly hungry world,” the U.K. Department of
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs wrote in an e-mailed comment
yesterday. “Scrapping counter-productive sugar beet quotas will
up production, stop shortages and bring down prices.”  The European Parliament gets the final say on  farm policy 
for the first time, Jan Jakubov, agriculture spokesman, said by
phone from Brussels yesterday. Policy makers for France and the
U.K. will attend the meeting next week when Parliament’s
rapporteurs will present their view on the reforms for the first
time, he said.  France’s View  “I’ll defend, in France’s name, the position that consists
of maintaining the current regulation until 2020 to allow this
industry to adjust, and at the same time give it the outlook on
the future that it seeks,” French Agriculture Minister Stephane
Le Foll told sugar beet growers at an industry meeting in Reims
on June 12. “I also know of the need to have a little bit more
time that’s required so you can adjust.”  The end of sugar quotas would mean that French production
would have to compete with  Thailand , the world’s second-biggest
exporter, and  India , the second largest producer.  Brazil  is the
top exporter and producer and its production costs have been
climbing because of labor costs and strengthening value of the
real currency since 2000.  Sugar Users  The Committee of European Sugar Users, representing
companies including  Kraft Food Inc. (KTF)  and Nestle SA, is opposed to
France’s plan, the Brussels-based group said in a statement e-
mailed today.  “EU sugar users have seen an increase of 40 percent in
sugar prices within the last year, leading to significant
financial instability for many food manufacturers across
 Europe ,” said Robert Guichard, president of the committee and
procurement manager of sweeteners for Kraft Foods in Paris.  “Postponing again the debate to 2018 is not going to help
prepare EU farmers or the food sectors to adapt to future market
challenges,” he said. The committee “demands that the
commission proposal of abolishing quotas in 2015 is respected.”  The EU spent four years since 2006 shrinking
its sugar-beet industry to comply with a ruling by the  World
Trade Organization  limiting its exports.  Net Importer  After the reform, the bloc became a net importer and
dependent on supplies from a group of least developed countries
and some nations of the African, Caribbean and Pacific group of
countries that have preferential access to the EU market.  “The problem facing the EU has been the limited
availability of preferential imports from least developed
countries and ACP,”  LMC International Ltd.  and London-based
Overseas Development Institute said in a report at the U.K.
Parliament’s inquiry into the EU sugar regime on June 13.  LMC International is an Oxford, England-based agriculture
research company and Overseas Development Institute focuses on
ways to reduce poverty in  developing countries . Shortages of
sugar in Europe are set to continue through 2015, they said in
the report to the U.K. Parliament.  The removal of sugar quotas is likely to reduce the EU
sugar price by 100 euros a ton, LMC International and the
Overseas Development Institute said. White, or refined, sugar on
NYSE Liffe settled yesterday at $566.70 a ton.  The elimination of sugar production quotas “must only be
done alongside opening up markets for tropical cane sugar, which
is crucial for British refiners, food manufacturers, and
consumers,” Defra said.  The EU has not proposed changing  import duties . The levy is
339 euros a ton on imports of raw sugar and 419 euros a ton for
white sugar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 