-- EU Said to Favor 1.2 Billion CO2 Permit Sale Delay in Report
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-06-15T15:36:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/eu-said-to-favor-1-2-billion-co2-permit-sale-delay-in-report-1-.html
The European Union may favor
delaying sales of as many as 1.2 billion carbon allowances from
2013 in a planned report on the outlook for its emissions-
trading program, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s regulatory arm,
sketched out three scenarios to temporarily curb the oversupply
in the cap-and-trade system in the draft report, the people
said, declining to be identified because talks on the document
are confidential. The two other options are withholding 400
million or 900 million permits in the three years through 2015,
they said.  The report on the functioning and potential tools to
strengthen the emissions market, after prices fell to a record
low in April, was drafted by the commission’s climate department
and needs to be signed off by EU commissioners heading
directorates from industry to energy.  The number of allowances that regulators will propose to be
delayed based on the findings of the report hasn’t been
determined yet and will also need approval from the college of
EU commissioners, the people said.  EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said this week the
report will be published before August and accompanied by the
formal regulatory proposal, based on the findings of the report,
to delay sales of some permits in the next phase of the
emissions program. The document will be made public when it’s
sent to  member states  for consideration.  1.1 Billion  The bloc’s market will be oversupplied with about 1.1
billion permits by the end of the current 2008-2012 trading
period, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The surplus
may be carried over to the next stage in the emissions trading
system, or the ETS, that runs from 2013 to 2020 and is often
referred to as Phase 3.  The allowances to be withheld under the EU’s planned
proposal to review the auctioning regulation would be returned
to the market in the second half of Phase 3, the commission has
said. The commission described the option of holding back 1.2
billion permits as its preferred option in the draft report, the
people said.  The report on the carbon market, which has been brought
forward by a year to float various options to improve the
world’s biggest emissions market, will also include a scenario
to permanently set aside a number of carbon allowances,
Hedegaard said in a statement yesterday.  Politically Contentious  While delaying the supply of allowances can be done through
an amendment to rules on carbon auctions through the so-called
comitology process that takes about five months, any reduction
in the total number of permits in the system would require
changing EU legislation, a politically contentious step that may
take as long as two years.  The draft report shows that the EU will also need to enact
other long-term measures to tackle structural imbalances in the
ETS, according to the people familiar with the matter.  Options include tightening the existing headline
greenhouse-gas reduction target to 30 percent in 2020 from the
current 20 percent, changing the 1.74 percent annual linear
emission-reduction factor in the ETS and including more
industries, such as transport, in the cap-and-trade program, the
people said.  EU permits for December rose as much as 5.5 percent to 7.31
euros ($9.24) a metric ton in the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
 London . They were at 7.25 euros at 4:32 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  