-- European Stocks Gain on Stimulus Optimism; RBS Advances
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-06-15T16:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/european-stock-index-futures-advance-glaxo-ing-may-move.html
European stocks  rose to the highest
this month after the Bank of England announced credit-easing
measures, boosting optimism central banks will take steps to
stimulate the global economy.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  led a
gauge of lenders higher.  Carrefour SA (CA)  advanced 5.9 percent after
agreeing to sell its stake in a Greek joint venture.  Imagination
Technologies Group Plc (IMG) , a U.K. chip designer in which Apple Inc.
holds a minority stake, jumped 14 percent.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 1 percent to 244.21 in
London, the highest since May 29. The  benchmark gauge  has still
declined 10 percent from its high on March 16 amid growing
concern that Greece may be forced to leave the euro currency
union after the elections on June 17.  “The Greek elections won’t add more clarity for the
markets, but a clear positive is that investors increasingly
believe that central banks are ready to act after the elections
-- whatever the outcome may be,” said  Lars Knudsen , a portfolio
manager who manages about $95 million at LGT Capital Management
in Pfaeffikon, Switzerland. “Markets see a decreasing
likelihood of contagion to the euro zone.”  The Stoxx 600 dropped yesterday after Moody’s downgraded
Spain and Cyprus, while Switzerland’s central bank said Credit
Suisse Group AG must boost its capital this year. European
stocks may be more volatile than usual today as futures and
options contracts on equity indexes expire in a process known as
quadruple witching.  Funding for Lending  BOE Governor Mervyn King said in a speech late yesterday
that the case for more stimulus in the U.K. is growing. He also
unveiled two plans to improve cash supply to the banking system.  A “funding-for-lending” program will allow banks to swap
assets with the BOE for money to be loaned their customers. The
central bank will also activate an unused facility to inject at
least 5 billion pounds ($7.8 billion) a month into the system at
a minimum rate of 25 basis points more than the benchmark
 interest rate , now at a record low of 0.5 percent.  U.S. stocks  extended gains in the final hour of trading
yesterday after Reuters reported that central banks will
coordinate action, if needed, to boost cash availability in
financial markets. The  news agency  cited officials linked to the
Group of 20 nations.  Spokesmen at the  European Central Bank , BOE, Bundesbank,
Swiss National Bank and Bank of France declined to comment when
contacted by Bloomberg News on the prospects for emergency
coordinated action.  National benchmark indexes advanced in all of the 18
western-European markets except Iceland. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
added 0.2 percent and Germany’s DAX rallied 1.5 percent.
France’s CAC 40 climbed 1.8 percent.  Greek Elections  On June 17, almost 10 million Greeks will vote for the
second time in six weeks after a May 6 ballot failed to result
in a government. The constitution permits a third election too.
Exit polls will be released when voting ends at 7 p.m. in
Athens.  “It’s not because the elections will have passed that the
problem will be resolved,” said Guillaume Duchesne, an equity
strategist at BGL BNP Paribas SA in Luxembourg. “What will
happen then? If there is a clear coalition of the traditional
parties, that will have a positive impact on the market. But we
remain cautious.”  European Union leaders will press for new efforts to boost
the economy and improve lending conditions, according to a draft
document prepared for a June 28-29 summit in Brussels. They will
endorse the European Commission’s recommendations on national
governments’ budget, employment and other economic policies, the
document obtained by Bloomberg showed.  U.S. Economy  In the U.S., a report showed that  industrial production 
unexpectedly fell in May for the second time in three months.  Output at factories, mines and utilities decreased 0.1
percent last month after a revised 1 percent gain in April, the
 Federal Reserve  said. Economists forecast a 0.1 percent advance,
according to the Bloomberg News survey median. Manufacturing,
which makes up about 75 percent of total production, dropped 0.4
percent last month.  An earlier report showed manufacturing in the  New York 
region expanded in June at the slowest pace in seven months.  RBS and Barclays rallied 7.9 percent to 247.6 pence and 4.2
percent to 200.8 pence, respectively. A gauge of European
lenders was among the best performers among the 19  industry
groups  in the Stoxx 600.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  gained 5.2
percent to 31.30 pence.  Carrefour, Fiat  Carrefour gained 5.9 percent to 14.49 euros. The world’s
second-largest retailer, agreed to sell its stake in a Greek
joint venture, reducing its exposure to southern Europe at a
cost of 220 million euros ($278 million). Late yesterday, the
company announced the purchase of 129 EKI stores in and around
the Argentine capital Buenos Aires.  Fiat SpA (F) , the Italian carmaker which controls Chrysler
Group LLC, jumped 5.5 percent to 3.66 euros. Chief Executive
Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said the company is cutting
investments in Europe by 500 million euros ($635 million) on
concern the region’s auto market won’t recover in the second
half of the year.  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  advanced 1.4 percent to 8.15 euros after
America Movil agreed to acquire a 21 percent stake in the
company from investor Ronny Pecik. The acquisition is part of
America Movil’s strategy to establish a foothold in Europe as
the debt crisis lowers the value of telecommunications assets.  Imagination Technologies jumped 14 percent to 499.5 pence,
the biggest jump since May 10 and the best performance on the
Stoxx 600 today.  SBM Offshore, Neste  SBM Offshore NV (SBMO) , the world’s biggest supplier of floating
oil and gas platforms, rose 8.2 percent to 10.88 euros as crude
oil rose.  Neste Oil Oyj (NES1V)  gained 4.6 percent to 7.95 euros.  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  climbed 1.4 percent to 5,970 pence
as Goldman Sachs Inc. upgraded its recommendation for the stock
to neutral, the equivalent of hold, from buy.  Endesa SA (ELE)  increased 3.8 percent to 12.87 euros after SSE
Plc said it will acquire the Irish power assets of Endesa for
320 million euros.  Roche Holding AG  fell 0.4 percent to 156.50 Swiss francs.
The company’s Zelboraf skin-cancer treatment failed to win the
backing of the U.K.’s health-cost agency, even after the Swiss
company offered to cut the drug’s price.  “The longer-term effect on survival was uncertain”
because many patients taking an older drug in a study were
shifted onto other therapies such as Zelboraf when their disease
worsened, making it difficult to compare treatments, the
National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  