-- Euro Gains Versus Dollar Amid Speculation Before Greek Election
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-06-15T21:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/euro-gains-versus-dollar-amid-speculation-before-greek-election.html
The euro strengthened against the
dollar for a second week as investors reduced record bets
against the currency before  Greece ’s June 17 election, and amid
speculation central banks may provide aid to financial markets.  The 17-nation currency erased earlier losses against the
dollar on concern its decline since April has been overdone.
Central banks are preparing for coordinated action to provide
liquidity, if needed, after a general election in Greece in two
days, Reuters reported. The dollar headed for weekly declines
versus major peers as weaker U.S. growth added to the case for
further monetary stimulus from the Federal Reserve.  “The market has been paring back on their short euro
positions,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist
in New York at Bank of New York Mellon Corp. “The market is
severely short euros still. Because the uncertainty surrounding
the elections, market players wish, going into the weekend, to
be more neutral in their positioning.” A short is a bet the
price of an asset will fall.  The euro was little changed at $1.2638 at 5 p.m. in  New
York , pushing its weekly gain to 1 percent. The currency fell
0.8 percent to 99.49 yen. The dollar lost 0.8 percent to 78.73
yen, reaching the biggest drop since May 31.  Real Rises  Brazil ’s real strengthened as speculation increased that
global central banks would coordinate action following the Greek
elections, a move that may boost appetite for higher-yielding
assets.  The real rose 0.2 percent to 2.0509 per dollar.  “It is the ultimate risk-aversion trade to take long
dollar positions in the face of global adversity, so anything
that suggests otherwise would see liquidation of long dollar
positions,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales
at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in  London . “The global response
in the form of coordinated action is beginning to kick in.”  Hedge funds  and other  large speculators  pared their bets on
a drop in the euro against the dollar last week from a record
high, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data showed.  Futures traders decreased net euro short contracts to
195,187 in the week ended June 12, the figures showed. They
reached a high of 214,418 the week ended June 5.  The shared currency has appreciated 2.2 percent against the
dollar this month, after falling 6.6 percent in May.  Greece Votes  Greeks will vote for the second time in six weeks after a
May 6 ballot failed to yield a government. The final opinion
polls showed no party set to win a majority. Exit polls will be
released when voting ends at 7 p.m. in  Athens , with a first
official result estimate due around 9:30 p.m. The elections will
be followed by meetings by Group of 20 policy makers on June 18-
19.  The elections may determine whether Greece upholds
austerity conditions attached to international aid, tries to
renegotiate the terms or abandons the pledge and risks what
would be the first departure from the euro bloc.  Spain  on June 9
became the fourth of 17 members to request a bailout.  “If you have negative news from Greece, it’s negative for
Spain, but if you have positive news from Greece, Spain still
has issues,” said Jose Wynne, head of North America foreign-
exchange research at Barclays Plc in New York. “A weaker euro
will be part of any solution for  Europe . We would only be
switching gears if we saw a lot of central bank intervention.”  Spain’s Debt  Spain experienced a backlash following last week’s 100
billion euro ($126 billion) bailout. The country’s bonds
slumped, with 10-year yields rising to a euro-era record, after
Moody’s Investors Service cut the nation’s credit rating to one
step above junk, citing its rising debt burden and weakening
economy.  Wynne said the euro may appreciate to $1.27 or $1.2750
should the pro-bailout New Democracy party garner a majority of
votes in the Greek election. He recommended then selling the
currency, as it won’t gain beyond that level.  The yen strengthened the most in two weeks against the
dollar after the  Bank of Japan  refrained from expanding monetary
stimulus that debases the currency. The central bank kept its
asset-purchase fund at 40 trillion yen ($510 billion) today,
matching the forecasts of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, slipped for a fourth day, falling as much as
0.6 percent to 81.481, the least since May 22. It was down 1.1
percent for the week.  Economic Data  U.S. industrial production decreased 0.1 percent last month
after a revised 1 percent gain in April, the Fed reported today
in  Washington . Economists forecast a 0.1 percent advance,
according to the Bloomberg News survey median. Manufacturing,
which makes up about 75 percent of total production, dropped 0.4
percent last month.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment for June fell to 74.1 from 79.3 at
the end of last month.  “Weak data does encourage expectations of some easing from
the  Federal Reserve  next week,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a
currency strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “We’ve
certainly seen a string of softer data in the U.S. If I were to
pick a currency that would benefit from softer U.S. numbers at
this point it would probably be the yen.”  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of so-
called quantitative easing from 2008 through 2011 to stimulate
the economy through lower borrowing costs. Central bank policy
makers meet on June 19 and 20.  The Australian dollar is facing a “key test” as it
reaches a 50 percent retracement of $1.0028 from the April 27
high to the June 1 low, according to Niall O’Connor, a technical
analyst in New York at JPMorgan Chase & Co. An advance above
$1.0135 would imply a “better tone” and potential for a bigger
gain, O’Connor wrote in a research note yesterday.  The Aussie gained 0.3 percent to $1.0056.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 Dliedtka@bloomberg.net  