-- European Stocks Post Second Weekly Gain on Stimulus Hopes
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-06-15T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/european-stocks-post-second-weekly-gain-on-stimulus-hopes.html
European stocks advanced for a
second week as Greeks prepared to vote, after the  Bank of
England  announced credit-easing measures, boosting optimism
central banks will take steps to stimulate the global economy.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and Lloyds Banking Group
Plc jumped at least 11 percent as the Bank of England unveiled
two plans to boost cash supply in the banking system.  National
Bank of Greece SA  surged 31 percent.  Etablissements Maurel &
Prom (MAU)  rose 13 percent after a report said it may be a takeover
target. Nokia Oyj tumbled 18 percent after it announced as many
as 10,000 job cuts and its debt rating was cut.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 0.9 percent to 244.21
this week. The gauge has still declined 10 percent from its high
on March 16 amid growing concern that  Greece  may be forced to
leave the euro currency union after the elections on June 17.  “There is a green light for more stimulus as inflation
comes down, which means central banks can be stimulative,” said
Daniel Weston, a portfolio adviser at Schroeder Equities GmbH in
Munich. “Rising German bund yields this week on Tuesday and
Wednesday have also seen more money come into equities from
bonds, as the potential risk of Germany having to help the euro
zone increases.”  National benchmark indexes climbed in 15 of the 18 western
European markets this week. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 gained 0.8
percent. France’s CAC 40 rose 1.2 percent and Germany’s DAX
added 1.6 percent.  Spain ’s IBEX 35 rallied 2.6 percent and
Greece’s  Athens  Stock Exchange Index jumped 14 percent.  BOE Stimulus  BOE Governor Mervyn King said in a speech on Thursday that
the case for more stimulus in the U.K. is growing. He also
unveiled two plans to improve cash supply to the banking system.  A “funding-for-lending” program will allow banks to swap
assets with the BOE for money to be loaned to their customers.
The central bank will also activate an unused facility to inject
at least 5 billion pounds ($7.8 billion) a month into the system
at a minimum rate of 25 basis points more than the benchmark
 interest rate , now at a record low of 0.5 percent.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said there are
no inflation risks in the 17-nation euro area and vowed the
central bank will continue providing liquidity to solvent
lenders.  European Union leaders will press for new efforts to boost
the 27-nation area’s economy and improve lending conditions,
according to a draft document prepared for a June 28-29 summit
in Brussels. Steps include introducing so-called project bonds,
making better use of EU infrastructure funds and increasing the
capital, and therefore lending power, of the  European Investment
Bank , according to the June 12 draft.  Greek Rally  Greek stocks rallied this week amid speculation that  New
Democracy , the party that backs an agreed bailout for the
nation, may win the June 17 election.  Almost 10 million Greeks will vote for the second time in
six weeks on Sunday after a May 6 ballot failed to result in a
government. The constitution permits a third election too. Exit
polls will be released when voting ends at 7 p.m. in Athens.  A victory by Syriza, the party that promises to renege on
Greece’s end of the bailout deal, could speed the nation’s exit
from the euro.  Europe ’s turmoil forced Spain last week to ask for a
bailout of its banks that may run as high as 100 billion euros
($126 billion), making it the fourth and largest euro-zone
economy to seek aid. Spain’s 10-year bond yield vaulted to 7
percent on Thursday, fueling speculation that the world’s 12th-
biggest economy may need a full rescue. Italy’s 10-year yield
reached a four-month high of 6.22 percent on June 13.  Ten-year German yields  rose this week to as high as 1.51
percent, up from a June 1 record low of 1.127.  Rating Downgrades  Moody’s cut Spain’s rating by three steps to Baa3 from A3
on Wednesday, citing the nation’s increased debt burden,
weakening economy and limited access to  capital markets . Moody’s
also lowered Cyprus’s bond rating to Ba3 from Ba1, attributing
the downgrade to the increased likelihood of Greece leaving the
euro area.  France ’s credit rating was cut on Thursday by one step to
BBB+ from by Egan-Jones Ratings Co., which cited deterioration
in the nation’s credit metrics and the need for support of the
country’s banks.  Royal Bank of  Scotland  rose 11 percent, Lloyds climbed 12
percent and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  added 5.5 percent. National Bank of
Greece surged 35 percent and Alpha Bank AE jumped 71 percent.  Maurel & Prom climbed 13 percent in Paris, after the U.K.’s
Guardian newspaper reported that Royal Dutch Shell Plc may be
interested in taking over the company. Shell declined to comment
as did Maurel & Prom.  Petropavlovsk Plc (POG) , a producer of gold in  Russia , jumped 16
percent in London trading this week after raising its output
target and saying cost increases would be lower than expected.  EON, RWE Gain  EON AG and RWE AG rose 5.6 percent and 3.7 percent
respectively. Utilities, including  Germany ’s two biggest, are
seeking about 5 billion euros ($18.75 billion) in damages over
the country’s exit from nuclear power,  Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung  reported, citing court filings.  Nokia slid 18 percent. Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop
announced a restructuring plan on Thursday including as many as
10,000 job cuts. The Espoo, Finland-based company said it
expects to book 1.25 billion euros in cash outflows for its
restructuring programs from the second quarter through the end
of 2013.  Nokia’s debt rating was cut to junk at Moody’s Investors
Service, the last of the three major credit rating companies to
strip the Finnish mobile-phone maker of its investment grade
because of mounting handset losses.  Credit Suisse slid 8.5 percent. The SNB said it will review
its communications procedures after trading in bearish options
on Switzerland’s second-biggest bank surged following a private
briefing in which regulators disclosed the firm faced a capital
shortfall.  Daimler AG, the third-biggest maker of  luxury vehicles ,
fell 3.7 percent and BMW AG, the largest, declined 4.9 percent.  Morgan Stanley reduced its earnings-per-share estimates at
both Daimler and BMW by 5 percent to 10 percent for this year,
2013 and 2014. The bank said it lowered the outlook on the
premise that prices would fall 1.5 percent each year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  