-- Euro-Area Exports Fell Second Straight Month in April
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-06-15T09:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/euro-area-exports-fell-second-straight-month-in-april.html
Euro-area exports declined for a
second month in April, adding to signs of continued weakness in
the 17-nation economy in the second quarter.  Exports from the euro-area fell a seasonally adjusted 1.3
percent from March, when they dropped 1 percent, the European
Union’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg said today. Imports
decreased 3 percent. Employment decreased 0.2 percent in the
first quarter from the previous three months, when it fell 0.3
percent, a separate report showed.  Europe’s economy may contract in the second quarter after
it stagnated in the first three months of the year and at least
eight nations slipped into a recession, a Bloomberg survey
shows. With the fiscal crisis worsening and euro-area economic
confidence at the lowest in 2 1/2 years, companies have relied
on faster-growing markets to bolster sales.  Remy Cointreau SA (RCO) ,
 France ’s second-largest distiller, reported a gain in full-year
profit on June 12 on Asian demand.  “We expect the euro-region economy to shrink in the second
and third quarters, putting it back into a technical
recession,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in
Hanover,  Germany . “There are enormous divergences among the
countries; Germany and France are still relatively robust. The
more serious the fiscal crisis weighs on nations, the larger the
contagion effects to the overall economy.”  Euro Drop  The euro has depreciated about 3.4 percent against the
dollar during the past two months as the euro zone’s worsening
fiscal crisis increased investors’ concerns about a breakup. It
traded at $1.2631 at 11:08 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  The euro area’s  trade surplus  widened to 6.2 billion euros
($7.8 billion) from 3.7 billion euros in the previous month,
today’s report showed. Employment dropped 0.5 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier.  While Germany’s expansion helped soften an economic slump
in the first quarter, indicators have since weakened. German
business confidence dropped more than economists had forecast in
May, while euro-area services and manufacturing output
contracted at the fastest pace in almost three years.
Unemployment held at a record high in April.  Prada SpA, the Italian maker of $2,950 perforated patent-
leather handbags, said on June 7 that there are “rising risks
deriving from the uncertain international economic
environment.” Remy Cointreau said earlier this week that Asian
demand is helping offset tougher conditions in  Europe , which is
suffering from “an uncertain economic” environment.  ECB Measures  Exports to the U.S. rose a non-seasonally adjusted 12
percent in the first three months from a year earlier, while
shipments to the U.K., the euro area’s largest market, increased
6 percent, today’s report showed. Exports to  China  and  Russia 
surged 9 percent and 19 percent, respectively, and Japan
shipments climbed 10.7 percent. Detailed trade data are
published with a one-month lag.  The  European Central Bank ’s June forecasts show that the
euro-region economy may shrink 0.1 percent this year before
expanding 1 percent in 2013. Exports may rise about 2.6 percent
this year and 4.4 percent in 2013, it said, down from a March
forecast of 3.2 percent and 5.5 percent, respectively.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on June 6 that the central
bank stands “ready to act” should the debt crisis damp the
euro-area economy further and that “a few” council members had
pushed for a rate cut at the policy meeting.  Jens Sondergaard, senior European economist at Nomura
International Plc in  London , said on June 13 that the ECB should
lower borrowing costs by 50 basis points and “launch outright
quantitative easing” to fight the turmoil if needed. Markets
“are behaving as if we are heading toward a breakup and this is
very, very worrying,” he said.  “I could imagine that the ECB will have to open the
floodgates a little bit further,” NordLB’s Kramer said. “But I
don’t see any QE.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  