-- Ex-Taylor Bean Official Gets 5-Year Prison Term: U.S.
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-15T15:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/ex-taylor-bean-official-gets-five-years-in-prison-u-s-says.html
Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage
Corp.’s former finance chief was sentenced to five years prison
for helping his boss,  Lee Farkas , commit what prosecutors say
was one of the largest bank frauds in U.S. history, according to
U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride .  Delton de Armas, 41, was sentenced today by U.S. District
Judge Leonie Brinkema in Alexandria,  Virginia , after pleading
guilty on March 20 to one count of conspiracy to commit bank and
wire fraud and one count of making false statements.  De Armas admitted he participated in a scheme that
contributed to the failures of Montgomery, Alabama-based
 Colonial Bank  and its parent, Colonial BancGroup, once among the
nation’s 25 biggest depository banks.  “As CFO, Mr. de Armas could have -- and should have -- put
a stop to the massive fraud at TBW the moment he discovered
it,” MacBride said in an e-mailed statement. “Instead, he and
others lied for years on end to investors, banks, regulators and
auditors and caused more than $2.4 billion in losses to major
financial institutions.”  From 2005 through August 2009, de Armas helped Farkas and
other conspirators misappropriate more than $1.5 billion from
Ocala Funding LLC, a financing vehicle used and controlled by
 Taylor Bean , according to a statement of facts filed by
prosecutors and signed by de Armas. He issued false financial
reports that masked shortfalls at Ocala Funding to keep auditors
at bay and investors on board, according to the document.  Farkas’s Sentence  Farkas, the ex-chairman of Taylor Bean, is serving a
30-year sentence. He was convicted in April 2011 of 14 counts of
conspiracy and bank, wire and  securities fraud  in what
prosecutors said was a $3 billion scheme involving fake mortgage
assets.  Six conspirators who pleaded guilty and testified against
Farkas were sentenced to prison terms ranging from three months
to eight years. De Armas didn’t testify at Farkas’s trial.  Taylor Bean, based in Ocala,  Florida , was servicing more
than 500,000 mortgages, including $51 billion of  Freddie Mac 
loans, when it collapsed in August 2009, according to court
records.  De Armas admitted to falsifying mortgage loan data so
Taylor Bean would meet collateral thresholds set by its lenders
and inflated the assets Taylor Bean supposedly owned, according
to the statement of facts.  False financial statements were given to Ginnie Mae and
Freddie Mac so that Taylor Bean’s authority to sell and service
mortgage securities guaranteed by the government-sponsored
entities would be renewed, according to the court filing.  The case is U.S. v. Armas, 12-00096, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington 
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 