-- Mexico’s Pena Nieto Taps Colombia Drug War Head for Cartel Fight
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-06-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/mexico-s-pena-nieto-taps-colombia-drug-war-head-for-cartel-fight.html
Mexican presidential frontrunner
Enrique Pena Nieto named General Oscar Naranjo, the former head
of the Colombian national police, as his top security adviser,
pledging to launch a more effective fight against the nation’s
drug cartels should he win the election in two weeks.  Sitting alongside Naranjo at a news conference in Mexico
City last night, Pena Nieto also said he plans to work with the
U.S., which assisted in  Colombia ’s assault on organized crime
organizations, to improve security on both sides of the border.
Naranjo helped engineer the crackdown that led to the demise of
Medellin cocaine kingpin  Pablo Escobar , and Pena Nieto credited
him for reducing the homicide rate in Colombia.  “The reason we have this environment of fear today in
Mexican society is the absence of security,” Pena Nieto said.
“It’s clear that the Mexican people expect immediate results.”  A bloody turf war between rival gangs has claimed more than
47,000 lives since President  Felipe Calderon  took office in 2006
and the government estimates that the drug war shaves 1.2
percentage points off economic output annually. Pena Nieto has
said he would refocus the conflict by going after the worst
crimes such as murder and extortion, expanding the federal
police force and building better coordinated state police corps.  Pena Nieto of the  Institutional Revolutionary Party  leads
in polls ahead of the July 1 election.  He had 37.8 percent support in a Consulta Mitofsky poll
released yesterday,  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador  of the
Democratic Revolution Party had 24 percent backing and Josefina Vazquez Mota of Calderon’s  National Action Party  had 21.6
percent support.  The poll of 1,000 potential voters had a margin of error of
3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Roeder at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net  