-- Mexico $121 Billion Pension Funds Can Invest in Commodities
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-06-15T16:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/mexico-121-billion-pension-funds-can-invest-in-commodities-1-.html
Mexico ’s pension funds, the nation’s
largest institutional investors, will be allowed to invest in
most commodity-linked securities starting June 20 as regulators
seek to allow them to diversify investments.  The pension funds, known as Afores, will be able to invest
in commodity futures, options and swaps contracts, Mexico’s
central bank said in guidelines  published  in today’s official
gazette. About $9 billion in pension assets will be eligible to
invest in commodities, according to Bloomberg calculations.  Mexican pension funds, with 1.68 trillion pesos ($121
billion) under management, have been able since December to 
invest from 5 to 10 percent of some portfolios for younger 
workers in commodity-linked securities. The Afores had 
mostly allocated their holdings to the country’s debt markets.  Afore Banamex, Mexico’s largest pension fund, plans to
“gradually” invest as much as 2 percent of total assets in
commodities, said Luis Sayeg, the chief executive officer of the
bank’s pension unit. The fund will hire a third-party asset
manager for such investments, he said in a June 11 interview.  Mexico’s central bank authorized investments for
commodities from milk to oil. The Afores will also be able to
invest in indexes linked to such securities, the gazette said.  Afore Banamex manages 289 billion pesos ($22.5 billion),
according to data from the country’s pension regulator.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , Schroders Plc and  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  are among asset managers that were waiting for the final
guidelines to enter formal talks with different Afores.  -- With assistance from Jonathan Levin and Ben Bain in Mexico
City. Editors: Dale Crofts, Robin Saponar  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos M. Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  