-- Exxon to Start Siberian Oil Drilling With Rosneft in 2013
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-06-15T15:54:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/exxon-to-start-siberian-oil-drilling-with-rosneft-in-2013-1-.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  agreed to start
drilling tight oil prospects in Siberia in 2013 with state-run
OAO Rosneft as  Russia  looks to tap the technology that reversed
slumping U.S. output.  Exxon will finance geological studies and drilling at the
Bazhenov and Achimov shale formations, the companies said today
in a statement. After the exploration stage, the Irving, Texas-
based producer will get a 33.3 percent stake in any development,
they said.  President  Vladimir Putin , who oversaw today’s agreement and
an earlier accord in April, is inviting foreign producers to
help reverse declines in the mature West Siberia oil province
and keep output at a post-Soviet high of more than 10 million
barrels a day. Crude and gas provided half of the government’s
budget revenue last year.  “We didn’t choose this partner by chance,” Rosneft Chief
Executive Officer  Igor Sechin  said today, highlighting the U.S.
unconventional oil and shale gas boom. He spoke at a signing
ceremony attended by Putin and his Exxon counterpart Rex
Tillerson in Tuapse on Russia’s Black Sea coast.  The companies will seek to pump a mixture of chemicals and
sand into horizontal wells to smash the low permeability rock
that characterizes the Bazhenov geology and thus increase the
amount of oil flowing up wells. Such output from the Bakken
shale in  North Dakota  has pushed an U.S. oil boom that since
2009 has begun to reverse almost two decades of decline,
according to  BP Plc (BP/)  data.  International Partnership  Today’s tight oil agreement firms up part of the wide-
ranging partnership signed in April in which Exxon has pledged
to spend $3.2 billion to study and drill for some of the world’s
largest resources in difficult, unexplored provinces in Russia’s
deepwater Black Sea and the Arctic Kara Sea. Rosneft, meanwhile,
has signed agreements to gain stakes in Exxon projects in Texas,
Canada and the  Gulf of Mexico .  Russia is developing tax incentives by October to encourage
development of unconventional  oil deposits .  The pilot wells will seek to locate deposits that Rosneft
has said may hold 13.2 billion barrels of oil, a prospect needed
for Russia to keep supplying 16 percent of global exports
another decade.  “We are not only looking at new geographical regions of
operation, but are also studying the potential of difficult to
produce reserves in traditional oil producing regions,” Sechin
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  