-- F-22 Pressure Vests Failed in Some Tests, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-06-15T04:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/f-22-pressure-vests-failed-in-some-tests-lawmakers-say.html
Pressure vests worn by  Air Force 
pilots on the F-22 Raptor have “an enormous failure rate” in
tests, providing the “leading theory” behind incidents of
oxygen deprivation, according to lawmakers briefed by the
service.  “It appeared to be almost a unanimous failure rate in
testing,” Representative Adam Kinzinger, an Illinois Republican
and an Air National Guard pilot, said yesterday on a conference
call with reporters.  Questions about the pressure vest provided the latest clue
in a yearlong mystery over why Air Force pilots keep getting
dizzy and disoriented flying  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-22. The
vest, part of a “G suit” used to help pilots avoid blacking
out during high-speed maneuvers, “increases the difficulty of
pilot breathing under certain circumstances,” the Air Force
said this week.  A Navy dive unit assisting in the Air Force’s continuing
investigation found that all of the vests tested failed,
according to a government official who was briefed on the
matter. The results were preliminary and additional tests were
to be conducted soon.  The pressure vest was designed and made for the F-15
fighter jet and has been adapted for use in the newer F-22,
which was declared ready for combat in 2005, according to the
official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he wasn’t
authorized to comment publicly.  About two dozen pilots and six ground-maintenance workers
have reported symptoms associated with a lack of oxygen. There
have been 11 reported incidents since the plane resumed flying
operations last year after a four-month halt because of safety
concerns.  Vest’s Maker  Kinzinger called failure of the pressure vests “the
leading theory at this point,” while saying it remains “just a
theory.”  The pressure vest is made by Sewing Technology Inc., a
closely held company based in Buffalo,  New York , according to
the Air Force.  “I do not believe that this vest would be contributing to
this situation, as thousands of these vests have been worn and
produced over the last 20-plus years without any concern that I
am aware of,” Lisa Donhauser, a co-owner of the company, said
in a written statement.  The hose and valve used on the vest are made by Gentex
Corp., a closely held company based in Simpson,  Pennsylvania ,
the Air Force said.  “Gentex is proactively responding to any information
requests from the U.S. Air Force related to the F-22 program,”
company spokeswoman Cheryl Fabrizi said in an e-mailed
statement. She declined further comment, referring questions to
the Air Force.  Not Confident  A majority of F-22 pilots surveyed early last year said
they “did not feel confident” in the plane’s oxygen system,
according to an Air Force response to questions submitted by
Kinzinger and Senator Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat. That
finding contributed to the decision to halt flights last year,
the service said.  Brigadier General Daniel Wyman, the Air Combat Command’s
surgeon general, said in a June 11 interview that recent surveys
showed pilots “are more confident than ever” in the plane.  Wyman and other Air Force officials have said the rate of
oxygen-related symptoms is relatively low, with 11 unexplained
incidents out of more than 12,000 sorties flown since the flight
ban was lifted last year.  “We have pilots flying daily, and this isn’t happening to
them,” Wyman said.  ‘Come to Grips’  Warner and Kinzinger objected to that assessment yesterday.
They cited Air Force data showing the hypoxia rate on the F-22
is more than 10 times that on any other Air Force aircraft.  There were 12.81 unexplained hypoxia incidents for every
100,000 flight-hours on the F-22, the data showed. The incident
rate for all other planes was less than 0.4.  “It’s important for the Air Force to come to grips with
these rates being high,” said Kinzinger.  Unable to explain symptoms of dizziness and a so-called
Raptor cough, the Air Force has been looking at everything from
the prosaic -- hoses, masks and pressure vests -- to the top-
secret coatings and adhesives used in the plane’s radar-
absorbing stealth skin that makes it harder to track.  After more than a year of study, the investigation has come
up short of a solution.  “The bottom line is we don’t have a single causative
factor,” Wyman said.  ‘Other Variables’  While the Air Force is investigating the pressure vest, the
service hasn’t declared the mystery solved.  “The upper pressure garment is not ‘the’ cause of
physiological incidents, and we still have other variables to
work through before we can determine what the major factors are
and how they interact to produce the number of unexplained
incidents we’ve seen,” Lieutenant Colonel Edward Sholtis, an
Air Combat Command spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  With the answer still elusive, Warner, who cited the
“enormous failure rate” of the vests in testing, said, “We
may end up finding it’s a series of factors” rather than a
single smoking gun.  The senator, who represents Joint Base Langley-Eustis,
where the F-22 is flown, said, “We’re going to stay on this
until it gets resolved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  