-- Facebook Told Regulators IPO Range Was Near Fair Value
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-06-15T21:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/facebook-told-regulators-ipo-range-was-near-fair-value.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , which has lost more
than $19 billion in market value since its initial public
offering, told regulators before its debut that the proposed
price range reflected the fair value estimated earlier this year.  The  Menlo Park , California-based company set a proposed IPO
price range of $28 to $35 a share on April 25, based on a
projected fair value of $30.89, according to correspondence with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission released today.  Facebook raised $16 billion in the May 17 IPO, the largest
ever for a technology or Internet company. Since then, shares
have tumbled on concerns that ad revenue growth won’t keep pace
with surging membership as more users access the site on mobile
phones. Filings today show the SEC also questioned Facebook
about its ability to generate revenue from mobile ads.  “Facebook has more complex and also unproven and
questionable ad products,” said  Rebecca Lieb , an analyst at
Altimeter Group in  New York , in an interview today. “It’s not
something really understood by the industry, much less the
SEC.”  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg , who co-founded the
social network in 2004, increased the price range and expanded
the amount of shares on offer prior to the sale.  Stock Slump  Facebook sold stock at $38, the top end of its revised
range. That price made Facebook more expensive than almost every
company in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Since then the
shares have  slumped  21 percent, battered by concern over
Facebook’s growth prospects.  The stock  climbed  6.1 percent to $30.01 at the close in New
York.  “Why did they bring it to $38?” said  Dan Veru , chief
investment officer at Palisade Capital Management in  Fort Lee ,
 New Jersey , in an interview today. “The bankers miscalculated
supply and demand, and shouldn’t have based it on retail demand.
They brought it so far above fair value.”  High Valuation  At the time of its debut, underwriters led by Morgan
Stanley set a price that valued Facebook at 107 times reported
earnings in the past 12 months, more than every S&P 500 stock
except two.  Pen Pendleton, a Morgan Stanley spokesman, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment.  The company’s own estimates of its fair value in 2011
ranged from $25.54 in March of that year to $30.07 in September,
Facebook told the SEC. The fluctuations were caused in part by
speculation about the timing of the IPO in the media and
investor speculation over the company’s financial performance,
Facebook said.  Facebook didn’t discuss fair value with the SEC after April
25 and had its final correspondence with the SEC on May 15,
according to documents disclosed today. The same day, Facebook
increased its  price range  to $34 to $38.  Facebook Response  “We responded to all SEC comments over the course of this
correspondence, and the SEC declared our registration statement
effective on May 17,” Facebook said in an e-mailed statement,
adding that releasing SEC correspondence is customary.  Documents released today also showed that regulators
pressed Facebook’s executives to provide more detail on how
users’ shift to mobile devices would affect its  profit . On May 9,
Facebook amended its IPO filing to say that its revenue might
suffer as more users accessed the site on mobile devices rather
than personal computers.  “Assuming that the trend toward mobile continues and your
mobile monetization efforts are unsuccessful, ensure that your
disclosure fully addresses the potential consequences to your
revenue and financial results rather than just stating that they
‘may be negatively affected,”’ the agency wrote to Facebook on
Feb. 28.  Zuckerberg’s Power  That month, the SEC also asked Facebook for more
information on the extent of Zuckerberg’s power at the company,
including his “ability to designate a successor, and the
implications of being a ‘controlled company.”’  The IPO valued Facebook at $90.9 billion, including common
stock and vested restricted-stock units.  Also today, Facebook asked a court to consolidate more than
40 shareholder lawsuits over losses related to the company’s IPO.
Some of the suits include claims that investors lost money when
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. failed to process orders correctly.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  