-- Facebook Asks Court to Consolidate IPO Shareholder Suits
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-06-15T19:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/facebook-asks-court-to-consolidate-ipo-shareholder-suits.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  asked a court to
consolidate more than 40 shareholder lawsuits over the social
networking company’s initial public offering last month.  Facebook, which has lost $22.5 billion in market value
since its initial public offering, asked a multidistrict
litigation panel yesterday to assign all of the federal cases to
a judge in  Manhattan , including 23 that were filed in New York
and four filed in  California .  Investors sued Facebook and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  over
problems in trading company shares on May 18, the first day they
were publicly available. Some of the suits include claims that
investors lost money when Nasdaq failed to process buy orders
and directions to cancel orders weren’t being processed.  Nasdaq  has blamed poor software design for the difficulties
in processing Facebook trades.  “Over 30 copy-cat securities and derivative lawsuits
against all or some combination of the Facebook and underwriter
defendants now assert the theory that Facebook’s conversations
with the underwriters’ analysts and the analysts’ subsequent
conversations with certain investors create liability under
federal securities laws,” Facebook said in yesterday’s filing.  Coordination of shareholder suits over the initial public
offering in federal court in New York is “the best way both to
streamline discovery and to eliminate the risk of inconsistent
rulings on potentially critical issues,” Facebook said.  Brian Murray, a lawyer representing a plaintiff in one of
the suits against Facebook in  New York , didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on Facebook’s request.  Andrew Noyes, a spokesman for Facebook, declined to comment
on the consolidation request.  Price Range  Before its debut, Facebook told regulators that the
proposed price range reflected the fair value estimated earlier
this year. The  Menlo Park , California-based company set a
proposed IPO price range of $28 to $35 a share on April 25,
based on a projected fair value of $30.89, according to
correspondence with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
released today.  Facebook raised $16 billion in the May 17 IPO, the largest
ever for a technology or Internet company. Since then, shares
have tumbled on concerns that ad revenue growth won’t keep pace
with surging membership as more users access the site on mobile
phones. Filings today show the SEC also questioned  Facebook 
about its ability to generate revenue from mobile ads.  The company said in today’s court filing that it amended
the registration statement for its public offering with
regulators on May 9 to disclose that “the trend of Facebook’s
daily average user growth outpacing growth in the number of ads
delivered had continued during the second quarter of 2012.”  Facebook said its May 9 amendment “also warned about the
negative impact of the trend on company’s revenues and financial
results.”  Shares rose 4.3 percent to $29.51 at 3:52 p.m. in trading
in New York.  The case is In re Facebook Inc. IPO Securities & Derivative
Litigation, Case Pending No. 76, U.S. Judicial Panel on
Multidistrict Litigation ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 