-- Facebook CTO Plans to Leave Company Later This Year
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-06-15T21:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/facebook-cto-says-he-plans-to-leave-company-later-this-year.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  Chief Technology
Officer Bret Taylor said he plans to leave the world’s largest
social-networking service to help start another company.  “While a transition like this is never easy, I’m extremely
confident in the teams and leadership we have in place,” Taylor
said on Facebook’s website.  Taylor will be starting a new company this year with Kevin
Gibbs, who is an engineer at  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Taylor said. Jim Prosser, a spokesman for Google, confirmed by telephone that
Gibbs is leaving the  Mountain View , California-based company.  Taylor’s announced departure is less than a month after
Facebook’s initial public offering as the company tries to
ratchet up products and services to woo more developers and
users to its site. Since its IPO on May 17, when it raised $16
billion, Facebook’s shares have tumbled on concerns ad revenue
growth won’t keep pace with membership growth as more users
access the service on mobile phones.  Taylor has been at Facebook since 2009, joining after the
 Menlo Park , California-based company bought FriendFeed, a social
service startup. Taylor and three other Google employees had
started FriendFeed two years earlier, providing a service that
let people post videos and updates from other sites on the Web.  Facebook’s new services include a “Facebook Camera,” a
mobile application that highlights members’ photos and the App
Center, a new service that helps users find mobile software for
their devices.  “I’ve really enjoyed working with Bret and getting to know
him as a friend and teammate,” Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  said in a statement. “I’m grateful for all he has
done for Facebook and I’m proud of what he and his teams have
built.  Facebook shares gained 6.1 percent to $30.01, paring the
stock’s loss since its IPO to 21 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  