-- FedEx CEO at 67 Has Industry Asking Who Follows Founder
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2012-06-15T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/fedex-ceo-at-67-has-industry-asking-who-follows-founder.html
Fred Smith has taken  FedEx Corp. (FDX) 
from an idea in a college essay to the world’s biggest cargo
airline over the past four decades. Now the company has to
figure out how to plan for the founder’s eventual departure.  Smith, who holds the titles of president, chief executive
officer and chairman, has built FedEx to more than $39 billion
in annual revenue and $27 billion in market value. It’s the
largest company in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Industrials Index
led by its founder, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yet at 67, Smith hasn’t said who will succeed him or when
he’ll cede the top post. After once saying he might leave as
soon as 2013, Smith now says he isn’t going anywhere soon. That
has left former executives and industry consultants questioning
how the board is preparing for the post-Smith era.  “I’m extremely concerned,” said Ron Wickens, FedEx’s
former vice president for strategic projects and a shareholder.
“Who is that replacement? And does he have the vision that  Fred
Smith  has?”  Smith’s eventual successor at  Memphis , Tennessee-based
FedEx will face the burden of following a pioneering CEO, said
John Haber, executive vice president of the transportation
division at Atlanta-based NPI LLC, which helps clients manage
supply-chain costs. That means he or she will have to figure out
what to change to build on the company’s success.  FedEx has “good bench strength, but their bench strength,
they’re not visionaries like Fred Smith,” said Haber, who
previously worked at competitor United Parcel Service Inc.
“What is at risk is, ‘What is the next great idea?’”  Express Unit  Restructuring is under way at FedEx’s domestic Express
unit, its largest, as U.S. volumes slump. It announced the
retirement of 24 jet freighters last week, and investors will
watch the June 19 earnings report for profit-margin gains
because that business “drives the stock,” said  David Ross , a
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. analyst in Baltimore.  Next week’s quarterly results are the last for the fiscal
year ended May 31, when FedEx fell 4.8 percent. That was the
fourth time in the last five annual periods that FedEx trailed
the  S&P 500  and  UPS. (UPS)  FedEx closed yesterday at $86.84, an
increase of 4 percent for the year. That compared with a
5.7 percent gain for Atlanta-based UPS.  Smith says talk of succession, which is part of annual
planning at FedEx, is premature. After saying in September 2010
he “almost certainly” would leave within five years, and maybe
three, he said in April that the timeline was only to start
deciding on his future.  Not Leaving  “I’m not planning on going any place,” Smith said in that
interview. The 2010 statement “was a year ago September, and I
said I’m not even going to think about it until then.”  Smith isn’t required to step aside. FedEx doesn’t have a
mandatory CEO retirement age. The limit for the chairman role
is 72.  Smith is still “fully engaged” at FedEx and is focusing
on strategic issues, corporate development and external affairs
including policy matters, said Bill Margaritis, a spokesman.  “We have a very deep bench of highly qualified leaders who
are capable of stepping into his role if need be,” Margaritis
said.  Possible candidates for Smith’s CEO job include Chief
Financial Officer Alan Graf and  Mike Glenn , executive vice
president of market development and corporate communications,
according to Ross and Satish Jindel, president of SJ Consulting
Group Inc. in Sewickley,  Pennsylvania . Dave Rebholz, the head of
FedEx Ground, and Dave Bronczek, who leads Express, also are
potential choices, Jindel and Ross said.  Director James Barksdale could be a chairman candidate,
Jindel said. Barksdale previously worked for FedEx Express and
later was CEO of Netscape Communications Corp.  ‘Big Expectations’  “Whoever takes over is going to have pretty big
expectations from the financial community,” Brandon Oglenski, a
New York-based analyst with Barclays Plc, said in an interview.  “When you’re making long-term investments, which is
definitely what Fred does, the short-term consequences can leave
a lot of people on Wall Street upset,” said Oglenski, who  rates
FedEx  as overweight/positive, the equivalent of Ross’s buy
recommendation. “Over the long run you can be proven right.”  He cited FedEx’s decision to branch into surface
transportation with its 1998 purchase of Caliber System Inc.,
which later became FedEx Ground, now the highest-margin business
in the company.  A founder’s exit creates leadership-transition questions
unique to young companies, said Clarke Murphy, CEO of executive
search firm Russell Reynolds Associates. Not only must the board
pick a new leader, directors must assess whether their historic
direction still works, Murphy said.  ‘Iconic CEO’  “Often, even after a successful reign of an iconic CEO,
the future of the company needs to change,” said Murphy, who is
based in  New York  and has advised on director or CEO searches at
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)   Smith first described his concept for a reliable express
air-freight service in a paper as a Yale University
undergraduate and developed it while in the Marine Corps during
the  Vietnam War . The company began as Federal Express Corp.  He was an early proponent of expanding into  South America ,
said Aaron Gellman, professor of transportation at Northwestern
University’s Kellogg School of Management, who knows Smith and
owns the stock. And it was Smith who foresaw the value of
building a network in  Asia , said ex-executive Wickens, who left
in 2009 and worked closely with him.  Corporate Governance  FedEx requires directors on the nominating committee to
report annually on management succession planning and the entire
board to work with the committee and CEO to evaluate potential
successors.  In 2010, a shareholder proposal to require “a written and
detailed” succession policy and annual reports on it to
investors got more than 20 percent of the votes. A similar
proposal in 2011 didn’t go to a vote after FedEx modified its
succession-planning language, said Jennifer O’Dell, assistant
director for corporate affairs with Laborers’ International
Union of  North America , which advises benefit funds that own the
stock.  Stakeholders “just want to make sure that the company is
planning,” O’Dell said.  When the leadership shift does come, it won’t be risky,
said Andrew Meister, an Appleton, Wisconsin-based analyst with
Thrivent Financial for Lutherans, which holds FedEx shares.
FedEx doesn’t need a turnaround CEO or “visionary, super-
talented person” to fix past mistakes, he said.  FedEx Linkage  Jindel and Ross both said FedEx has a strong roster of
internal candidates. Smith won’t be replaced as long as he’s in
good health and wants to run the company, because his name is
“linked to FedEx,” Jindel said.  Directors need to ask several questions about how to
replace Smith with the right candidate, said Jane Stevenson, a
vice chairman at executive recruiting firm Korn/Ferry
International in Atlanta.  “How do you create a smooth transition to right
leadership? How do you know what the profile needs to look
like?” she said. “How does a CEO who is a founder let go and
successfully release the company to a new future that’s being
charted by someone else?”  That future has to combine the vision to make big,
potentially risky investments and the ability to deliver
improving returns to satisfy investors, said Wickens, the former
FedEx executive. Those traits have been hallmarks of Smith’s
tenure, he said.  “Fred, he’s not looking at today, he’s not looking at
tomorrow,” Wickens said. “He’s looking at 10, 15 years out.
And I don’t know of anybody that has that vision to bet money
today on what’s going to happen 15 years from now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  