-- Fiat Cuts Spending as Peugeot Sells Assets as Sales Slump
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t ,   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n   a n d   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-06-15T11:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/fiat-ceo-marchionne-cuts-european-investments-on-slump.html
Fiat SpA (F)  will cut investments in
 Europe  by 500 million euros ($632 million) and PSA Peugeot
Citroen plans to sell a larger stake in its trucking unit as the
region’s automakers grapple with an extended market slump.  “The capital expenditure reduction is about half a billion
euros from what we planned last year for 2012 in Europe,” Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said late yesterday in an
interview in Madrid, where he’s heading the annual gathering of
the European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association, or ACEA.  Peugeot, Europe’s second-biggest carmaker, plans to sell at
least 50 percent of its profitable Gefco trucking unit, more
than previously discussed, as it seeks to raise cash, Patrice
Clos, a FO union representative and head of Gefco’s works
council, said in a phone interview.  Peugeot (UG)  declined to comment.  The drop in European car sales accelerated in May to 8.4
percent, the eighth consecutive monthly decline, according to
ACEA figures released today. Peugeot, Fiat and Renault SA have
posted the steepest slumps in Europe this year, plummeting 15
percent or more in the first five months. Marchionne said in the
interview that he doesn’t expect any second-half recovery.  “We’re definitely going to be at these lower sales levels
for some time to come in Europe,” Richard Hilgert, a Chicago-
based analyst for Morningstar Equity Research, said by
telephone. “It’s going to be a long, slow recovery.”  Fiat will lower investment  spending  to 7 billion euros from
the 7.5 billion euros the Turin-based carmaker had previously
intended.  Shares Advance  A reduction “has a positive impact on the cash flow
estimates,” Mediobanca SpA analysts wrote in a note to clients
this morning.  Fiat  gained  as much as 15 cents, or 4.4 percent, to 3.62
euros, the biggest gainer on the nine-member Bloomberg European
Autos Index, and was up 4.2 percent as of 1:34 p.m. in Milan
trading. Peugeot traded 2.1 percent higher in Paris, giving the
French carmaker a market value of 2.66 billion euros. The stock
hit a 23-year low this week on concerns over slumping sales.  European auto registrations fell 8.4 percent in May to 1.15
million vehicles, the Brussels-based ACEA said in a statement.
The accelerating decline pushed five-month sales down 7.3
percent to 5.64 million cars.  Peugeot announced plans in February to sell assets,
including a stake in Gefco, as the Paris-based automaker
grapples with European overcapacity and increasing debt. The
French carmaker’s sales in Europe tumbled 15 percent in the
first five months of 2012.  Renault (RNO) ’s sales are down 19 percent
and Fiat’s deliveries are 17 percent lower.  Gefco Sale  “The chief executive told us that more than half of the
shares would be sold,” Clos said in a phone interview. Gefco
Chief Executive Officer Yves Fargues provided the information at
a works council meeting yesterday, Clos said.  The sale of a majority of the trucking unit “would mean
that Gefco’s earnings would get deconsolidated in Peugeot’s
accounts,” Florent Couvreur, an analyst at CM-CIC Securities,
said by phone. “This would basically mean a 20 percent cut in
their operating income.”  Gefco, a fully-owned Peugeot subsidiary, has attracted
eight bidders so far, and Peugeot plans to narrow the field to
three by the end of July, Clos said. The deal is slated to close
by early September, which would be a month later than previously
scheduled, he said, adding that Fargues didn’t provide details
on valuation nor identify the bidders.  Production Overcapacity  Consumer confidence  in  Italy , Europe’s fourth-biggest auto
market, fell to a 15-year low in May.  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Opel
unit, which with the Vauxhall brand posted an 8.6 percent drop
in European sales in May, said on June 13 that it may close a
German car plant.  “Mass-market European manufacturers such as Fiat, Peugeot
and Renault have a core problem of material overcapacity on the
order of magnitude of 20 percent to 30 percent,” said  David Arnold , a London-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said.
“As such, they face weakening end-market demand in both price
and volumes relating to the broader euro-zone crisis.”  Fiat, which owns 58.5 percent of Chrysler Group LLC, has
stopped additional investments and postponed the introduction of
new models in Europe. Marchionne plans to eventually merge Fiat
and the American carmaker in a bid to increase sales to more
than 100 billion euros by 2014 and reduce the Italian
manufacturer’s reliance on Europe.  Model Delays  Marchionne said that the new Grande Punto model, which was
originally scheduled to be built beginning in 2013, “is one of
the projects we are reconsidering in line with the changes” of
the market in Europe. Fiat is discussing partnerships “with
several people, and in some cases our architectures, including
the one for the Punto, are involved in the talks,” he said.  A recovery in Europe “depends on many factors: first
 Greece , then the way in which the Euro currency will continue
and what Europe will do to sustain growth,” Marchionne said in
the interview.  European carmaker CEOs meeting in  Madrid  haven’t made any
progress on a common plan to address the region’s overcapacity
issues, Marchionne said.  “I think my proposal will just remain a Marchionne idea,”
he said. “If there’s no coordination by the European Union,”
every carmaker in Europe will “do it by itself,” he said
before a gala dinner with the other executives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  