-- Fighting Climate Change With Carbon Capture May Cause Quakes
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-06-15T19:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/fighting-climate-change-with-carbon-capture-seen-causing-quakes.html
Burying carbon dioxide in the
ground, considered a promising way to combat  climate change , may
increase the risk of earthquakes, according to a  report .  The process, in which liquefied carbon dioxide is stored in
caverns, “may have the potential for causing significant
induced seismicity,” the  National Research Council  said today.
Injecting wastewater underground from natural-gas fracking may
also trigger earthquakes, while using hydraulic fracturing to
get trapped gas doesn’t pose a “high risk,”  the report found.  Burying carbon may pose a higher risk of quakes than
wastewater disposal because it involves the continuous injection
of high volumes of liquefied gas at high pressure, said Murray Hitzman, professor of economic geology at the  Colorado School of
Mines  and chairman of the committee that produced the report.  “Those larger volumes then will increase the pressure in
the subsurface over very large areas,” Hitzman said on a
conference call. “The bigger the area of the high pressure, the
more chance of seeing a fault. The more distance that it moves,
the bigger the earthquake.”  The  International Energy Agency  said in a June 11 report
that  carbon capture  is “the only technology on the horizon
today that would allow industrial sectors (such as iron and
steel, cement and natural gas processing) to meet deep emissions
reduction goals.”  Seismic Events  While no large-scale carbon-capture projects are on line,
abandoning the technology would “significantly” increase the
cost of reaching greenhouse-gas emissions targets, the IEA said.  “Projects that inject or extract large net volumes of
fluids over long periods of time such as CCS may have potential
for larger induced seismic events,” according to the report.
“Insufficient information exists to understand this
potential.”  The National Research Council, a nonprofit based in
Washington, provides scientific information for government
decision-makers under the auspices of the  National Academy of
Sciences , the National Academy of Engineering and the  Institute
of Medicine .  Senator  Jeff Bingaman , a New Mexico Democrat and chairman
of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, requested the
study to assess the potential for seismic events related to
energy production. The report covers gas fracking, enhanced
recovery of conventional oil and gas, geothermal energy and
carbon capture and storage.  Fracking Wells  In the U.S., fracking by forcing millions of gallons of
chemically treated water and sand underground to free trapped
gas has been used on 35,000 wells, according to the report. The
only confirmed link between fracking and seismic activity was a
2.3-magnitude quake near Blackpool, England, in 2011, the report
found.  Evidence linking underground storage of fluids from energy
production and earthquakes led regulators to add requirements
for water-disposal wells. Researchers think an increase in
wastewater wells may be the cause for a sixfold jump in total
quakes in the central U.S. from 2000 to 2011.  “If we have more wells, we have more chance of events, and
if we have more events there’s more probability of higher
magnitude events,” Hitzman said.  13 States  Seismic events related to energy development were measured
in  Alabama , Arkansas, California,  Colorado , Illinois,  Louisiana ,
 Mississippi ,  Nebraska ,  Nevada ,  New Mexico ,  Ohio ,  Oklahoma  and
Texas, according to the report.  “Although induced seismic events have not resulted in loss
of life or major damage in the United States, their effects have
been felt locally, and they raise some concern about additional
seismic activity and its consequences in areas where energy
development is ongoing or planned,” according to the report.  U.S. Geological Survey  researchers  found that, for three
decades prior to 2000, seismic events in the central U.S.
averaged 21 a year. They jumped to 50 in 2009, 87 in 2010 and
134 in 2011, according to a study presented April 18 at the
annual meeting of the Seismological Society of America.  Last year,  Arkansas  regulators shut four disposal wells in
the Fayetteville Shale, where companies are drilling for gas,
after an outbreak of earthquakes near the town of Guy, including
a 4.7-magnitude temblor. Drillers must now provide information
on the geology of disposal-well sites and avoid known faults
when planning the wells.  Ohio Rules  The Ohio Department of Natural Resources in March proposed
rules for wastewater disposal, including bans on drilling into
some rock formations and requiring geology reviews before wells
are approved. Beginning in March 2011, there have been 12
temblors near a disposal well in Youngstown, including a 4-
magnitude quake that struck on New Year’s Eve.  Disposal of wastewater from gas wells involves injection at
low pressure into porous aquifers that are chosen to accommodate
large volumes of fluid. There are about 151,000 disposal wells
for oil and gas production in the U.S., according to the
 Environmental Protection Agency . Most pose no earthquake hazard,
though the long-term effects of an increase in the number of
wells are unknown, according to today’s report.  State and federal agencies and research groups are
examining the link between energy production and earthquakes,
though greater funding may be needed to address “unexpected
events,” according to the report.  “We’ve have wastewater disposal wells for many, many, many
decades, but they’re increasing in number,” Hitzman said. “One
of the differences is we just have a whole bunch more wells out
there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  