-- India’s Finance Minister Mukherjee to Contest Presidential Poll
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-06-15T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/finance-minister-mukherjee-is-pick-for-india-president-correct-.html
Pranab Mukherjee  is set to give up
his job as India’s finance minister after the ruling  Congress 
party made him its nominee for the post of president.  Mukherjee “has a long and distinguished record of public
service spanning over five decades,” Congress President  Sonia Gandhi  said in announcing the veteran leader’s selection
yesterday in New Delhi. “There is broad support for his
candidature.”  Support from two regional parties for Mukherjee’s
nomination brightened the chances of his elevation to India’s
highest constitutional office in the July 19 presidential poll.
His departure from the  finance ministry  may lead to an overhaul
of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s cabinet as Congress tries to
revive an economy growing at the weakest pace in nearly a decade.  The next finance minister is going to have a “very
challenging job given the problems of working with coalition
allies,” said Rupa Rege Nitsure, an economist at state-owned
 Bank of Baroda  in Mumbai. What’s important for the successor “is
de-politicization of economic reforms and to show with
conviction that India can take tough decisions to prop up
growth,” Nitsure said.  While largely a ceremonial post, the  president  is the
supreme commander of the armed forces and oversees the creation
of a government in the event of a hung parliament. Mukherjee, 76,
will probably face one or more opposition candidates when
elected legislators of state assemblies and the federal
parliament vote for the next president.  Policy Paralysis  Paralysis in policy making brought on by corruption charges
and infighting within the governing alliance has contributed to
growth in India’s  economy  slumping to a nine-year low. The rupee
is  Asia ’s worst performing currency this quarter as investment
has waned, and the country faces becoming the first so-called
BRIC nation to lose its investment-grade  credit rating ,
according to  Standard & Poor’s .  Mukherjee has been the Congress party’s key troubleshooter
in managing conflicts with allies including  Mamata Banerjee ,
leader of Trinamool Congress, who has repeatedly blocked Singh’s
attempts to open up the economy to more foreign investment.  He “has the instincts of a conciliator,” said Mohan
Guruswamy, chairman of the Centre for Policy Alternatives in New
Delhi. “His instincts and responses as finance minister were
not in keeping with our requirements right now. He was a bit of
a dinosaur. The economy needs someone who will drum up an agenda
and push it.”  Potential Successors  Home Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram, Commerce Minister
 Anand Sharma , Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission  Montek Singh Ahluwalia , Chairman of the Prime Minister’s Economic
Advisory Council Chakravarthy Rangarajan and Rural Development
Minister Jairam Ramesh are all probable candidates to replace
Mukherjee, Business Standard reported yesterday. He may resign
on June 24, CNN-IBN television channel said.  The Congress party was routed in state elections earlier
this year, including in  India ’s most populous state, Uttar
Pradesh, where the party’s leader-in-waiting, Rahul Gandhi, led
the campaign. Yesterday, it suffered defeat in a provincial by-
election in Andhra Pradesh state as its breakaway group swept to
victory.  Singh’s administration, re-elected in Congress’ biggest win
in two decades in 2009, is grappling with a trade deficit that
reached a record $184.9 billion in the fiscal year ended March,
and an inflation rate of more than 7 percent.  The winner of the presidential vote will succeed President
Pratibha Devisingh Patil, whose five-year term ends July 24.  Banerjee’s Opposition  Banerjee, chief minister of West Bengal state, said
yesterday she wants former president A.P.J. Abdul Kalam as the
candidate. Mulayam Singh Yadav’s Samajwadi Party, which rules
 Uttar Pradesh , and Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party have said they
will support Mukherjee’s candidature.  Heading as many as two dozen ministerial panels on issues
ranging from  food production  to fuel prices, Mukherjee, who is
from the eastern state of West Bengal, has rarely been out of
the news during Singh’s second term. A consummate political
insider, he was often called upon to appease government allies
angered by proposed policy changes, not always emerging
victorious.  His efforts to get Banerjee to drop her opposition to
Singh’s plans to allow foreign retailers including Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. into India failed. Similarly, his bid to convince
communists then allied with Singh to support a landmark nuclear
cooperation agreement with the U.S. was unsuccessful.  Former speaker of the lower house of parliament, Purno A. Sangma, who is backed by two regional parties, is seeking
support from others as he considers joining the race for
president. The main opposition grouping led by the  Bharatiya
Janata Party  has not announced its nominee.  Mukherjee’s “vast experience in India’s parliamentary
system” and the respect he enjoys among lawmakers, will help
him be an effective president if he wins the election, said
Satish Misra, a political analyst at the New Delhi-based
Observer Research Foundation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  