-- Fitch Downgrades Egypt on Political Uncertainty as Vote Looms
-- B y   L i z a   H o r o w i t z   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-06-15T16:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/fitch-downgrades-egypt-on-political-uncertainty-as-vote-looms.html
Egypt, which is still struggling
with the aftermath of popular unrest that last year toppled
President  Hosni Mubarak , had its long-term foreign currency
issuer default ratings downgraded by  Fitch Ratings  on the eve of
a run-off vote to choose a new head of state.  “The downgrade and negative outlook reflect increased
uncertainties surrounding the political transition following
yesterday’s ruling by the Supreme Constitutional Court to annul
parliamentary elections and dissolve parliament,” Richard Fox,
head of Fitch’s Middle East and Africa sovereign ratings, said
in an e-mailed statement today. The long-term foreign currency
rating was cut to B+ from BB-. The outlook for this and the
long-term local currency rating were negative, the company said.  Egypt’s constitutional court yesterday dissolved parliament
and rejected a law that curtailed the political rights of top
officials in the former government, enabling Ahmed Shafik,
Mubarak’s last prime minister, to continue his candidacy in
tomorrow’s presidential race against the Muslim Brotherhood’s
candidate Mohamed Mursi.  The rulings come at a time when  Egypt  lacks a constitution,
with secular and Islamist politicians disputing the makeup of
the panel that will write it, while the parliament and military-
appointed government have repeatedly clashed. Those conflicts
have stymied hopes of concluding a much-needed $3.2 billion
 International Monetary Fund  loan, as the central bank has spent
more than half its  currency reserves  since the start of last
year as it seeks to bolster the pound.  Politics ‘Complicated’  “Whatever the ultimate outcome of these events, the
political and policy making process has been complicated,
delaying the likely implementation of the comprehensive
macroeconomic and structural reforms needed to kick start
recovery and ease financing strains,” Fox said.  Yields on benchmark 10-year dollar bonds climbed to 6.91
percent today, extending their two-day increase to 23 basis
points. Five-year credit default swaps rose 22 basis points to
648, according to CMA, which is owned by GME Group Inc. and
compiles data from the privately negotiated market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liza Horowitz in  New York  at 
 lhorowitz2@bloomberg.net ;
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  