-- Florida Beats Texas as Homes Slim Penalty: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-06-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/florida-beats-texas-as-homes-slim-penalty-muni-credit.html
Florida ’s debt is starting to punch
its weight in the $3.7 trillion municipal  bond market  as the
state’s jobless rate has fallen more than in 42 counterparts in
the past two years.  The fourth-most populous state, one of only nine with a top
general-obligation grade from  Standard & Poor’s , has seen the
 extra yield  on its bonds shrink by about 25 percent this year
over the average AAA security, Bloomberg Fair Value data show.
Peter DeGroot at JPMorgan Chase & Co. says the  yield spread  has
“further room to tighten” amid declining unemployment and
climbing home sales.  “The market is realizing that the worst is over and that
they should be trading more like the  credit rating  that they
have,” Justin Land, who helps manage $3 billion of munis at
Naples, Florida-based Wasmer Schroeder & Co., said in an
interview. About 10 percent of their munis are from Florida.  Florida’s 29 electoral votes make it the biggest prize
among states both presidential campaigns view as competitive in
the November election. It has a AAA rank from S&P and Moody’s
Investors Service’s second-highest grade of Aa1. Republican
Governor  Rick Scott , 59, has said protecting the bond rating is
a reason for lawmakers to cut spending.  The Sunshine State’s jobless rate declined to 8.7 percent
in April from an  11.4 percent  peak in January 2010. The drop
ties it with Illinois, Tennessee and  Indiana  for the fifth-
biggest improvement, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Florida’s
rate remains above the 8.2 percent national average.  JPMorgan’s Assessment  After losses in 2008 and 2009 amid the worst recession
since the 1930s, Florida’s economy grew in 2011 for the second
straight year, according to the U.S. Bureau of Economic
Analysis. The 0.5 percent increase last year still ranked it
37th among states.  At the same time, the average sales price on a single-
family home in Florida this year is about $213,000 as of May 15,
up 6.6 percent from the same period last year, Florida Realtors
data show.  Home prices  in Miami have risen for five straight
months, according to the city’s Association of Realtors.  “Given the significant improvements in housing and
unemployment, we think there is room for Florida spreads to
tighten,” DeGroot, head of muni research at New York-based
JPMorgan, wrote in a June 8 research report.  The fiscal 2012-2013 budget for the state of 18.8 million
people bridges a deficit in part by cutting spending 4 percent,
according to the report.  50 Percent  For 10-year general obligations of the state, the spread
has narrowed by about 50 percent since mid-2009 to about 0.35
percentage point, DeGroot said in an e-mail.  When using a Bloomberg index that also includes the state’s
localities, investors demand about  0.56 percentage point  of
extra yield for Florida debt over AAA securities nationwide,
compared with 0.77 points at the start of the year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The penalty has averaged 0.31 point
in the past decade.  Investors are more comfortable with Florida and its
municipalities than they were a year ago as the housing market
has bottomed out and the state has built up reserves, Daniel Solender, who helps manage $16 billion of munis, including
Florida debt, at Lord Abbett & Co., said in an interview from
 Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  “For a while there was concern whether it could get worse
and now they seem to be stabilizing and they seem very well
managed,” Solender said.  Versus Texas  Florida debt has earned about 4 percent this year,
outpacing 17 of 26 states tracked by S&P index data.  The state and its localities are also paying the least
extra yield in four years compared with similarly rated Texas,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. An index of 10-year general-
obligation debt of Florida bonds was  0.02 percentage point  above
an index of debt of Texas issuers on June 11, the slimmest
difference since 2008.  Texas has a top rating from Moody’s, and S&P’s second-
highest rank, at AA+. The state’s jobless rate fell to 6.9
percent in April from a peak of 8.2 percent in 2009.  “There’s more relative value in our mind for the generic
Florida credit relative to the generic  Texas  credit,” Land
said. “The rest of the market is probably coming to that
conclusion as well.”  Still, Florida’s workforce is 750,000 smaller than its 2007
peak and it is among five states where personal income remains
below pre-recession levels, said  Amy Baker , top economist for
the state Office of Economic and Demographic Research.  Population Estimate  “We made a little headway,” she said in a presentation
this week in Tallahassee, the capital. The recession “was a
little bit deeper, a little bit longer, a little bit tougher on
Florida” than state economists originally estimated, she said.  Baker projected Florida will surpass New York as the third-
biggest state in 2016 and grow by 5.1 million people by 2030.  “Population continues to be Florida’s primary engine of
economic growth,” she said.  Mayors in Jacksonville,  West Palm Beach  and Tampa said at a
conference of the nation’s mayors this week in  Orlando  that they
see signs of recovery though they expect to make additional
budget cuts this year. West Palm Beach fees for new construction
may reach a six-year high, Mayor Jeri Muoio said in an
interview.  “The buzz is good,” she said.  Following are pending sales:  NEW YORK  CITY MUNICIPAL WATER FINANCE AUTHORITY is set to
borrow $450 million of revenue bonds as soon as next week,
according to bond documents. (Added June 15)  LOUISIANA plans to sell about $581 million in general-
obligation bonds as soon as next week, according to an offering
document. About $144 million will be taxable debt, with the rest
tax-free. The proceeds will be used for refunding. Moody’s rates
the debt Aa2, third-highest. (Added June 14)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  