-- Ford Pledges to Cut Energy Used in Automaking 25% by 2016
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-06-15T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/ford-pledges-to-cut-energy-used-in-automaking-25-by-2016.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , claiming a one-fifth
cut in energy used to make cars since 2006, pledged to reduce
consumption in its factories an additional 25 percent by 2016.  The second-largest U.S. automaker used 2,778 kilowatt hours
to produce each vehicle in its global factories last year, down
22 percent from 3,576 kwh in 2006, it said in its annual
sustainability report today. While Ford is using more energy-
efficient tools and production methods, part of the gain is from
increased use of factory capacity as sales rebounded, said John Viera, the automaker’s global director of sustainability.  “Our plants are running at a higher capacity,” Viera said
in an interview. “That’s definitely going to be a factor.”  Environmental efficiency is a cornerstone of Chief
Executive Officer  Alan Mulally ’s turnaround plan. As Ford has
broadened its lineup with small cars such as the Fiesta
subcompact, the fuel-efficiency of its U.S. vehicles has
improved almost 17 percent since 2006, Executive Chairman  Bill Ford  said in a letter in the report. Factory emissions of carbon
dioxide, a global-warming gas, fell 48 percent from 2000 to
2010.  “Ford is a different company than we were a few years
ago,” Bill Ford said, referring to the automaker developing
cars for global markets rather than regional ones. “It’s
helping keep us on track to meet our goal to reduce carbon
dioxide emissions from our vehicles in every region in order to
address the climate-change issue.”  Reputation Builder  While it isn’t clear that Ford sells more cars and trucks
because consumers are impressed by its environmental efforts,
Viera said it enhances the reputation of the Dearborn, Michigan-
based automaker, which avoided a government-financed bankruptcy
such as those used by  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC.  “The corporate reputation is we didn’t take the bailout
money and we’re a responsible company from an environmental
standpoint,” Viera said. “Collectively, those positive
reputation pieces do allow us to sell more cars or get more
consideration.”  The efficiency gains Ford is realizing in its factories
have a relatively small impact on the total environmental impact
of its cars, said Jim Kliesch, research director of the clean
vehicles program at the Union of Concerned Scientists
environmental organization.  “The total amount of emissions attributable to
manufacturing is fairly small compared to what a vehicle puts
out over its lifecycle,” Kliesch said in an interview.
“Factory emissions account for about 15 percent of the
environmental impact. The fuel economy of the vehicle is much
more important.”  Shifting Focus  Ford highlighted fuel-efficiency gains in previous reports
and decided to focus on factory improvements this year, Viera
said.  Ford’s fuel economy is improving, thanks to new
technologies such as turbo-charged, direct fuel-injected engines
that boost mileage, Kliesch said. Ford still trails leaders such
as Honda Motor Co., he said.  “Ford continues to push the envelope, but they’re still
fairly well behind the industry as a whole,” he said. “The
difference between the best and the worst is shrinking.”  Ford last month began selling an electric version of its
Focus compact car. Also coming this year are hybrid and plug-in
versions of the C-Max wagon Ford is bringing to the U.S. from
its European lineup. Next year, Ford will introduce a plug-in
version of its  Fusion  family car, Ford said in its report.  Ford will cut energy use at its factories over the next
four years by installing more-efficient tools, lighting, paint
processes and converting inefficient steam-powered systems to
direct-fired gas systems, said Thomas Niemann, the automaker’s
manager of sustainability.  “It’s not very sexy,” Viera said. “It’s not the big
project you could put in a headline. It truly is the smaller
things, the blocking and tackling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  