-- Former Och-Ziff Managers Said to Plan Own Asia Hedge Fund
-- B y   B e i   H u   a n d   N a t h a n i e l   B a k e r
-- 2012-06-15T10:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/former-och-ziff-managers-said-to-plan-own-asia-hedge-fund-1-.html
Manoj Jain and Sohit Khurana, two
former managing directors at  Och-Ziff Capital Management Group
LLC (OZM)  run by Daniel Och, plan to start their own Asia hedge fund
later this year, said four people with knowledge of the matter.  Maso Capital, their Hong Kong-based company, plans to raise
$250 million for the event-driven and convertible-bond-arbitrage
fund, said two of the people, who asked not to be identified as
the information is private. Jain and Khurana declined to comment.  Some managers and traders in Asia are leaving global hedge
funds and investment banks to set up their own funds, even as
two worst years of performances and more selective investors
kept the Asian industry’s assets 22 percent off its 2007 peak.
Jain and Khurana are also starting their own regional-focused
hedge fund as the  European debt crisis  spreads and economic
growth is slowing in the U.S. and  China .  “Because they have come from a large, successful and
institutional hedge fund, they may be a little insulated about
how challenging it is to raise assets for a small fund,” said
Alex Mearns, chief executive officer of Eurekahedge Pte, a
Singapore-based data provider. “There’s the overwhelming
entrepreneurial desire to run your own business.”  Carl Huttenlocher, the former Asia head of Highbridge
Capital Management LLC, and Morgan Sze, a former Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. proprietary trader, helped new Asia hedge funds to
raise $4.43 billion last year, the highest amount since the
industry peaked in 2007, according to a survey by trade journal
AsiaHedge.  Event Driven  Jain, 33, was responsible for Och-Ziff’s  Asia  merger
arbitrage, event-driven and capital markets investments such as
initial public offerings and additional share sales. Khurana, 39,
co-managed the regional convertible bond pool at the New York-
based company, which oversees about $29.8 billion globally,
before leaving earlier this year.  Event-driven funds seek to profit from securities whose
value is affected by events such as mergers and acquisitions,
and reorganizations. Convertible arbitrage funds typically buy
the bonds and sell borrowed common stock of the same issuer.  Huttenlocher’s Hong Kong-based Myriad Asset Management Ltd.
raised $900 million by March 1 for its hedge fund started on Dec.
1. Assets of Sze’s Azentus Capital Management Ltd., also
headquartered in the city, topped $2 billion last year, making
it the region’s largest hedge fund startup.  Ex-GLG  Other Hong Kong-based emerging-markets managers who are
planning their own funds this year include, Kelvin Woo and Joe Zhang, who left London-based hedge fund GLG Partners Inc. to
plan their own Asia-focused macro hedge fund, four people with
knowledge of the matter said in April.  Investors channeled almost 80 percent of new capital
inflows to the global industry to hedge funds overseeing more
than $5 billion in the 15 months to March, according to Chicago-
based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Sixty-two percent of the 1,314 Asian hedge funds tracked by
Eurekahedge manage $50 million or less. Of 308 Asian hedge funds
started since 2009, 74 percent have failed to boost assets
“significantly” and 51 have been liquidated, according to the
data from Eurekahedge.  Smaller, Nimble  Still, managers who previously worked at large global funds
tend to think they can make more money running their own funds,
Mearns said. They may have good relationships with investors
from their prior employers and may believe they can produce
superior returns for their investors in a smaller and more
nimble fund, he added.  The OZ Master Fund, the flagship fund of Och-Ziff, lost 0.5
percent in 2011, according to the annual  report  of the publicly
traded company. The HFRI Fund-Weighted Composite Index dropped 5
percent in 2011 in the second-worst year for the global industry
amid concerns about the European debt crisis and a global
recession. The OZ Asia Master Fund dropped 3.8 percent last year,
outperforming the 8 percent decline by the Eurekahedge Asian
Hedge Fund Index.  The OZ Master Fund allocated 17 percent of its $20.2
billion in assets to Asia,  Australia  and  New Zealand  at the
beginning of this year, according to the annual report. The OZ
Asia Master Fund oversaw $1.6 billion at the end of December.  The Wall Street Journal reported on the new fund earlier
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  