-- England Rallies Past Sweden at Euro 2012 as France Beats Ukraine
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-15T21:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/france-defeats-ukraine-2-0-to-take-group-d-lead-at-euro-2012.html
England  came from behind to beat
 Sweden  3-2 at the European soccer championship and move into a
tie at the top of Group D with France, which defeated co-host
Ukraine 2-0.  Danny Welbeck  scored the winning goal in the 78th minute
last night at Kiev’s Olympic Stadium as England rallied from a
2-1 second-half deficit. Jeremy Menez and Yohan Cabaye scored
three minutes apart for France in Donetsk in a game suspended in
the first half because of bad weather.  “We came back well,” Welbeck said in an interview with
the British Broadcasting Corp. “When we went behind we still
had the belief and we stuck together.”  England and France lead the group with four points, Ukraine
has three and Sweden, which was eliminated with the loss, has
none. England and Ukraine meet in their final group match in
three days, while France plays Sweden. The top two teams in each
group advance to the quarterfinals.  The first two places in the quarterfinals will be filled
today when the  Czech Republic  meets co-host Poland and Greece
faces Russia in the final round of games in Group A.  In Kiev, England coach  Roy Hodgson  elected to pick 6-foot-3
(1.90-meter) striker Andy Carroll in place of Alex Oxlade- Chamberlain to take advantage of Sweden’s recent vulnerability
to aerial balls. The Scandinavians had conceded six headed goals
in their previous six games.  England Goes Ahead  The selection proved a good one when Carroll powered in a
header off Liverpool teammate  Steven Gerrard ’s 45-meter cross in
the 23rd minute.  Sweden then scored twice early in the second half off free
kicks. England defender  Glen Johnson  turned the ball into his
own net in the 49th minute after goalkeeper  Joe Hart  saved Olof Mellberg’s shot. Ten minutes later, Mellberg rose unchallenged
to head in Sebastien Larsson’s free kick for a 2-1 lead.  Theo Walcott, brought on in the second half in place of
 James Milner , tied the game in the 64th minute with a shot from
the edge of the area which wrong-footed goalkeeper Andreas Isaksson. The Arsenal winger then sent a cross which Welbeck
flicked past Isaksson with 12 minutes left for the winning goal.  “I wouldn’t say I was the game changer,” Walcott said on
UEFA’s website. “I was disappointed not to be starting but it
is good to come off the bench and make an impact.”  France  and Ukraine had played only four minutes at Donbass
Arena when referee Bjorn Kuipers pulled the players off the
field because of lightning and heavy rain. After a delay of 55
minutes, the match resumed at 8 p.m. local time.  Fears  “When the game was suspended, our fear was that we
wouldn’t get to play it,” French coach  Laurent Blanc  said on
UEFA’s website. “The stadium staff responded well and
everything went how it should.”  France took the lead in the 53rd minute as Karim Benzema
passed to Menez, who took one touch in the area and fired a shot
into the bottom right corner.  Benzema set up the second goal three minutes later with a
pass to Cabaye, who controlled it just inside the area and stuck
a left-footed shot past Piatov.  The victory ended France’s national-record eight-match
winless run in tournaments, dating back to a 1-0 win over
 Portugal  in the 2006 World Cup semifinals.  “Six years in major competitions and to not win a game is
a long time,” Blanc said. “I hope our next win isn’t in six
years. If it is, then I won’t be here to talk about it because
I’ll have been fired long before.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja at the Olympic Stadium in Kiev via the London
newsroom at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 