-- G-20 May Face Delays on OTC Derivatives Rules, FSB Report Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-06-15T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/g-20-may-face-delays-on-otc-derivatives-rules-fsb-report-says.html
Efforts to make trading over-the-
counter derivatives safer may be compromised by delays and
inconsistent national rulemaking, global regulators said in a
report today.  The Financial Stability Board said authorities may fail to
meet an end-of-the-year deadline for applying measures the Group
of 20 nations agreed on in the wake of the 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The plans focus on pushing OTC
derivative trades through clearinghouses and onto regulated
platforms.  “Although most authorities estimate that a significant
proportion of interest rate derivatives will be centrally
cleared by end-2012, they are less confident of progress for
other assets classes and find it hard to make firm estimates,”
the FSB said in a report on its website today.  Global regulators have sought tougher rules for OTC
derivatives since the collapse of Lehman and the government
rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , two of the largest
traders in credit-default swaps. The FSB also said earlier this
week that national regulators were failing to implement uniform
measures to curb excessive bonuses at banks.  European Union and U.S. regulators have struggled to align
their implementation of the international measures, with banks
warning that inconsistencies or overlapping rules may increase
costs and give foreign competitors an advantage.  Overseas Branches  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are among
U.S. firms to argue that applying the rules contained in the
Dodd-Frank Act to their overseas branches or units would
threaten their ability to compete.  “Many jurisdictions have concerns about potential
inconsistencies between national approaches to implementation of
the G-20 commitments,” the FSB said.  Clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and Deutsche
Boerse AG’s  Eurex Clearing  operate as central counterparties for
every buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default.  While rulemaking to implement the G-20 agreements in the
EU, U.S. and  Japan  is “well underway,” other nations have made
less progress, the FSB said. “All jurisdictions and markets
need to aggressively push ahead.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 