-- Goldman Mezzanine Chief Muneer Satter Steps Down
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-06-15T12:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/goldman-mezzanine-chief-muneer-satter-said-to-step-down.html
Muneer Satter, who built the world’s
largest family of mezzanine funds at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
is leaving the bank after 24 years, according to two people
familiar with his plans.  Satter, 50, is departing to spend more time with his family
after commuting for the past 12 years from his home in  Chicago 
to Goldman Sachs’s headquarters in  New York , the people said,
asking not to be named because his move hasn’t been announced
publicly.  Satter, who serves as one of the co-chairs for U.S.
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney ’s national finance committee,
became a partner at Goldman Sachs in 1996 and oversees a team of
about 20 people who work in the firm’s merchant bank. The
business has raised more than $28 billion since its inception 16
years ago and is the biggest in the world, according to the
company’s  website .  “I’m surprised he lasted as many years as he did commuting
from Chicago,” said  Gordon Crawford , the  fund manager  at
Capital Group Cos. in  Los Angeles  whose views help shape media
industry deals. “He’s been offered other gigs in New York but
that’s not going to happen.”  Satter didn’t return a call seeking comment about his
departure.  Mezzanine funds make loans to companies at higher rates
than banks and buy their preferred stock. They profit from
interest payments and the eventual sale of the equity interest.
The financing technique is often used in takeovers, and can take
the place of high-yield, high-risk debt.  Merchant Bank  Goldman Sachs’s merchant bank, which has raised about $120
billion in funds ranging from private equity and debt to
infrastructure, named Satter as both chairman of its risk
committee and a member of the investment committee. Satter’s
group started with $1.2 billion and created its largest fund, of
$13 billion, in 2007.  While Goldman Sachs doesn’t break out the merchant bank’s
revenue or profit, gains on its holdings are included in a
 segment  called “Investing & Lending” in the company’s
quarterly reports. That business generated about 7 percent of
Goldman Sachs’s net revenue in 2011, 19 percent in 2010 and 6
percent in 2009, according to company reports.  Goldman Sachs’s mezzanine funds could become subject to the
Volcker rule, which limits depository institutions from
supplying more than 3 percent of the capital in a hedge fund,
private-equity fund or other “covered fund.” Goldman Sachs has
been asking regulators to loosen the proposed limits on bank
investments in such pools.  Alliance Boots  Satter’s deals include helping to finance the 11.1 billion-
pound ($17.2 billion) leveraged buyout of Alliance Boots Plc,
the largest U.K. drugstore chain, and Blackstone Group LP’s
takeover of Anheuser-Busch InBev NV’s amusement-park business
for $2.3 billion.  “Muneer got to the point pretty quickly and, as a client,
you didn’t try bullying terms out of him,” Christopher Stadler,
managing partner at CVC Capital Partners Ltd., said in an
interview. “He responded to the strength of the relationship.”  As a result of helping to finance LBOs, Satter’s unit
worked closely with the investment bank’s financial-sponsors
group, which was previously co-led globally by Milton Berlinski.
Berlinski left the bank after 25 years in December.  Satter contributed $95,000 to the super-PAC backing Romney,
Open Secrets data show.  “He has been a leader and adviser to me and my campaign,
for which I’m grateful,” Romney said through a spokesman.
“Even more importantly, I consider him a dear friend.”  Rahm Emanuel  At the local level, he has contributed to Chicago mayor
 Rahm Emanuel , Open Secrets data show. He sits on the board of
 World Business Chicago , the city’s not-for-profit economic-
development corporation whose chairman is Emanuel.  He is also chairman of the finance committee at the Nature
Conservancy, a nonprofit that promotes diversity among the
world’s plant and animal species, according to the
organization’s website.  “I have followed his career and his success is no
surprise,” said  Sam Zell , chairman of Equity Group Investments
LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  