-- Goldman Sach’s Merchant Bank Loses Three Partners
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-06-15T19:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/goldman-sach-s-merchant-bank-loses-three-partners.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s merchant
bank, which has raised about $120 billion in funds ranging from
private equity and debt to infrastructure, said today that three
of its most senior employees are leaving.  Muneer Satter, who built the world’s largest family of
mezzanine funds; Hughes Lepic, who ran the merchant-banking
division in  Europe ; and Gerald J. Cardinale, co-head of Americas
private-equity funds, have decided to retire, according to three
separate memos from Richard A. Friedman, who leads the merchant-
banking division. They have worked at New York-based Goldman
Sachs for 24, 22 and 20 years, respectively, the memos show.  The loss of the three partners -- the highest rank of
employee at Goldman Sachs -- comes as the fifth-biggest U.S.
bank by assets prepares for new regulations that will cap banks’
investments in such funds to 3 percent. Goldman Sachs had stakes
worth $8.83 billion in  private-equity  funds, $3.74 billion in
private-debt funds and $1.54 billion in real estate funds at the
end of March, according to a quarterly filing.  “I would stay at Goldman Sachs forever if I could,”
Satter, 50, said in a press release today about his decision to
leave after 12 years of commuting to New York from his home in
 Chicago . “Starting in July, I look forward to spending each day
and evening with my wife and five children.”  Private Equity  Goldman Sachs lost about 50 partners last year as the
company cut pay awards in its worst year for profit since 2008.
The company, which was a partnership before going public in
1999, continues to reward a select group of employees with the
title of “partner” and a special pool of compensation. New
partners are appointed every even-numbered year.  Lepic, 47, who is retiring at the end of August, joined
Goldman Sachs in 1990 to work in mergers and acquisitions in  New
York  and moved to London in 1991. He has worked in the Principal
Investment Area, which manages the bank’s own investments and is
known as PIA, since 1996 and has held his current role since
2009.  Lepic, a French citizen, helped establish Goldman Sachs
“as one of the leading principal investors in Europe in private
equity, credit and infrastructure,” according to the memo.
“During his tenure PIA invested over $7 billion in private-
equity transactions in Europe.”  YES Network  Cardinale, 45, who is staying until the end of the year,
joined the firm’s corporate finance division in New York in 1992
before working in  investment banking  in Hong Kong and PIA in
 Singapore . In 1997 he returned to New York to work as an
investment banker to telecommunications, media and technology
companies before returning to PIA in 1999. He has been a partner
since 2004.  Cardinale, known as Gerry, was responsible for more than $6
billion in investments, including the firm’s holding in Yankees
Entertainments & Sports Network, which was founded in 2001 to
broadcast the games of the New York Yankees baseball team and
the New Jersey Nets basketball team. Yankees third-baseman  Alex Rodriguez  worked with Cardinale and John Mallory in 2007 to help
him negotiate a new contract, people familiar with the matter
said at the time.  While Goldman Sachs doesn’t break out the merchant bank’s
revenue or profit, gains on its holdings are included in a
 segment  called “Investing & Lending” in the company’s
quarterly reports. That business generated about 7 percent of
Goldman Sachs’s net revenue in 2011, 19 percent in 2010 and 6
percent in 2009, according to company reports.  Fed Meeting  “Over the period from 1999 through the first quarter of
2012, the firm’s aggregate net revenues from its investments in
 hedge funds  and private-equity funds were not material to the
firm’s aggregate total net revenues over the same period,”
according to a Goldman Sachs’s regulatory filing for the quarter
ended in March.  At a meeting with Federal Reserve Board staff in February,
Goldman Sachs executives argued that “credit funds” should be
exempted from the 3 percent investment cap, according to a
meeting summary published in February.  Henry Cornell, 56, who has worked in the merchant-banking
division since 1992 and became a partner in 1994, was named vice
chairman of the division, according to a separate memo. Tom Connolly, who has served with Satter as co-head of the
corporate-credit business that oversees loan and mezzanine
funds, will become sole head of that unit. Andrew Wolff will
move to London from  Hong Kong  to lead the division in Europe,
while remaining co-head of the business in  Asia  with Ankur Sahu.  Deep Bench  “We are confident that these changes position us strongly
for future success,” Friedman wrote in the memo. “They also
demonstrate our deep leadership bench as we elevate a new set of
leaders and create opportunities for other MBD professionals.”  Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman for the bank, confirmed the
memos’ contents.  Stephanie Hui, who has worked in the merchant-banking
division for more than 12 years, will run the Asia business
excluding  Japan  from Hong Kong and will report to Wolff,
according to the memo. Hui was promoted to partner in 2010.  Adrian M. Jones, a partner since 2004, and Sanjeev Mehra, a
partner since 1998, will run the private-equity business in the
Americas, while San Francisco-based Joseph P. DiSabato, who has
been a partner since 2004, will remain head of GS Growth,
according to the memo. Sumit Rajpal, a partner since 2010, will
lead the global financial institutions business and Kenneth A. Pontarelli, a partner since 2006, will continue to oversee the
global energy and natural resources business, according to the
memo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  