-- Greece Votes With Euro at Stake on Eve of Global Summit
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-06-17T13:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/greek-candidates-make-final-pleas-before-vote-with-euro-at-stake.html
Greeks voted for the second time in
six weeks in an election that may determine the fate of the euro
currency as global leaders gather for their annual summit.  Exit polls will be released when voting ends at 7 p.m. in
 Athens , with a first official estimate due around 9:30 p.m. The
final polls, published on June 1, showed no party set to win a
majority. The election marks a revote after the May 6 ballot
failed to yield a government.  With 21 parties on the ballot, the main contest pits Syriza
leader Alexis Tsipras, who has promised to renege on budget cuts
demanded by creditors in exchange for a pair of bailouts,
against New Democracy’s Antonis Samaras, who says his challenger
is risking an exit from the currency union.  “Today, the Greek people speak,” Samaras said as he cast
his vote this morning. “Tomorrow, a new era begins for
 Greece .”  The vote will turn on whether Greeks, in a fifth year of
recession, accept open-ended austerity to stay in the euro or
reject the bailout conditions and risk the turmoil of exiting
the 17-nation currency. Group of 20 leaders begin their annual
gathering in Los Cabos,  Mexico , tomorrow, with  France ’s  Francois Hollande  and  Germany ’s  Angela Merkel  opting not to leave for the
event until after the outcome in Greece is known.  European finance ministers plan a conference call to
discuss the outcome, with a statement likely to be issued around
10 p.m. Brussels time, a European official said under condition
of anonymity.  Fires and Grenades  The vote was held against a backdrop of a spate of forest
fires around the country that forced  emergency services  to
request help from European Union countries. Five firemen were
injured battling blazes yesterday.  Police today said they recovered two unexploded grenades
near the premises of a closely held television station, with
government spokesman Dimitris Tsiodras saying the incident was a
failed attempt to disrupt the election.  Samaras has said the vote today was a choice between the
euro or drachma. Tsipras, who has said he’ll try to keep Greece
in the euro while tearing up the bailout agreements, has urged
voters to reject the two main parties that backed the
international rescue, New Democracy and Pasok.  “We have conquered fear,” Tsipras said after casting his
vote. “Today we open the path to hope with our people united,
dignified and proud: with a Greece of social justice, an equal
member of a  Europe  that is changing.”  Final Polls  Tsipras and Samaras ran even in the final opinion polls.
The socialist Pasok party, which won the 2009 election and led
the country into the bailout, was third at about 13 percent.  Now in its third year, the European debt crisis has rounded
back to Greece, which sparked the turmoil in October 2009 when
Pasok Prime Minister  George Papandreou  revealed a deficit four
times more than European rules allowed. Greece has since gotten
two rescue packages totaling 240 billion euros ($303 billion)
from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund .  The ballot will also mark the first test for a 100 billion-
euro firewall for  Spain , which on June 9 became the fourth euro
country after Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to seek a rescue.  Roil Markets  Central banks intensified warnings that Europe’s failure to
tame its debt crisis threatens to roil the world’s financial
markets and economy as Greece’s election looms as the next
flashpoint for investors.  The Greek turmoil has cast a pall around the world, with
 Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King calling the euro debt
crisis a “black cloud” over the global economy.  The euro, created in 1999 and adopted by Greece in 2001,
has lost 3.3 percent since May 6, when Syriza’s second-place
finish increased the prospect of a Greek exit from the currency
union.  New Democracy  won 18.9 percent in the May 6 election and
Syriza got 16.8 percent.  Tsipras has pledged to scrap state-asset sales, civil-
service job cuts and wage and pension reductions. Samaras says
Tsipras’s policies risk forcing Greece out of the euro and
causing hyperinflation, bank runs and widespread poverty.  One-in-Three  Standard & Poor’s  said in a June 4 report that the chance
of Greece leaving the euro in coming months was one-in-three.
Citigroup Inc. said it maintained its 50 percent to 75 percent
probability of a Greek exit over the next 18 months.  “The durability of any new Greek government will be
limited due to implementation changes, continuing public
opposition to austerity and vested interest opposition to
structural reforms and privatization,” Tina Fordham, senior
global political analyst at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in  London , said in a
June 15 note.  New Democracy led Syriza by 22.7 percent to 22 percent,
according to an ANT1 TV poll on June 1, the last date surveys
were made public in accordance with Greek election law. Under
that scenario neither party would have enough support to rule
outright.  Samaras said in his final campaign speech on June 15 that
the country couldn’t survive a third round of elections and that
he’d work to form a government to save the country with partners
on two conditions: that Greece remain in the euro and that a new
administration would renegotiate the terms of the bailout
accords.  The spending reductions demanded by the troika of creditors
from the EU, the  European Central Bank  and the IMF to bring the
country back to financial health have included cuts to pensions
and the minimum wage amid tax increases, sending unemployment to
a record of more than 22 percent.  Accelerated Withdrawals  Worried Greeks have stepped up the pace of withdrawing
their savings before the elections on concern the nation may
move closer to abandoning the euro, bankers familiar with the
situation said on June 13.  Deposit outflows jumped in the days following the May 6
election and were as much as 6 billion euros in May, Athens-
based  Kathimerini  newspaper reported June 9, without saying
where it got the information. Greek bank deposits by businesses
and households rose to 166 billion euros in April from 165.4
billion euros the previous month, according to a statement by
the  Bank of Greece  on its website on May 31.  The outflow is increasing the strain on a banking system
that has suffered since the beginning of the crisis. An exit
from the euro would cut lenders off from access to ECB funding.  Papandreou, speaking today in an interview with the  BBC ,
said the situation is “stable if we stay in the euro,” and
warned of a “catastrophic” outcome if the nation were to
abandon the single currency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  