-- Gul May Seek Second Presidential Term, Court Rules
-- B y   A y d a n   E k s i n   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2012-06-15T13:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/gul-may-seek-second-presidential-term-court-rules.html
Turkey’s  Constitutional Court  ruled
that President  Abdullah Gul  may run for a second term in office,
overturning legislation in January that stopped him from
running.  Gul’s current term is for seven years and it expires in
August 2014, the Ankara-based court’s 17 judges decided
unanimously today, according to its press office.  The Constitutional Court’s ruling raises the prospect that
Gul may compete with Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  for the
post of president in two years time. Erdogan has expressed
preference for changing the Constitution to create a
presidential form of government. Erdogan is favored to replace
Gul, Reha Denemec, deputy chief of his governing party, said in
an interview in March. Gul hasn’t said whether he’ll run again.  “Erdogan is the leading candidate and I don’t think Gul
will risk a confrontation with his party for personal
ambitions,”  Wolfango Piccoli , a political risk analyst at
Eurasia Group in  London , said in a telephone interview today.
“Anyway, I don’t think Gul can be a real competitor against
Erdogan given Erdogan’s popularity in the party and with the
electorate.”  The court said it canceled a clause of Temporary Article
One of Presidential Election Law 6271 passed by parliament in
January barring Gul from running for a second term in nationwide
elections.  Gul, a political ally of Erdogan who served as premier in
2002, was elected by parliament in 2007 after being nominated by
Erdogan.  Erdogan won a third term as prime minister last year with
almost 50 percent of the vote. His term is due to expire in
three years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aydan Eksin in Istanbul at 
 aeksin@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  