-- Micex Climbs for Fourth Week as Oil Rises Before Greek Elections
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-06-15T15:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/micex-heads-for-3rd-week-of-gains-on-oil-before-greek-elections.html
Russian stocks surged the most in
two weeks as oil, the nation’s biggest export earner, advanced
and investors bet  Greece  will remain in the euro area after
elections this weekend.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  climbed 2.2 percent to 1,375.23 by the
close in Moscow, adding 2.8 percent for a fourth week of gains.
OAO  Mechel (MTLR) , the country’s biggest coking-coal producer, jumped
9.4 percent on bets U.S. policy makers’ efforts to stimulate
growth will boost commodities. OAO Rosneft,  Russia ’s biggest oil
producer, surged after President  Vladimir Putin  called on Chief
Executive Officer  Igor Sechin  to boost the company’s dividend.
OAO Tatneft added 4.2 percent. OAO  Norilsk Nickel , Russia’s
largest mining company, gained after UBS AG added the stock to
its  emerging-markets  “Key Call” list, citing low valuations.  Crude advanced as much as 1.1 percent, heading for a second
week of gains. The Greek vote on June 17 may determine if the
country upholds austerity conditions attached to international
aid, and could lead to the first ouster from the euro area.
Reports showing U.S. jobless claims unexpectedly climbed and the
cost of living fell by the most in more than three years fueled
speculation Fed policy makers may consider another round of
stimulus measures when they meet June 19.  “Oil is supporting the Russian trading,”Andrey Gritsenko, who manages $350 million at Kapital Asset Management
in Moscow, said by phone. “A Greek exit from the  euro zone  is
highly unlikely. The Fed will wait for the results of the Greek
elections before making decisions on the next round of
stimulus.”  Economic Growth  Oil and gas sales accounted for almost 50 percent of
Russia’s budget revenue last year. OAO Gazprom Neft gained 5.2
percent this week while OAO Surgutneftegas’ preferred shares
climbed 9.1 percent.  Russia’s  economy  grew 4.8 percent in the first quarter, the
fastest since the three months ended September 2011, the Federal
Statistics Service in Moscow said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  The “strong start” will not continue in the second
quarter as investment growth slows and net exports shrink, VTB
Capital analysts wrote in a note today.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
retreated as much as 2 percent before closing up 1.4 percent at
201.86 rubles. The company’s deputy chief executive officer said
it will cut 10 percent of annual output by the end of this year.  Norilsk Climbs  “Markets continue to be driven by expectations regarding
the Greek elections and potential economic stimulus from  Europe 
and the U.S.,” UralSib Capital analysts led by Slava Smolyaninov said in an e-mailed note.  Norilsk climbed 2.5 percent. UBS said the stock is
undervalued after investors pulled cash from Russia-focused
equity funds. Norilsk trades at 6.6 times estimated earnings,
compared with 10.7 times for Industrias Penoles SAB, a Mexican
miner of silver and gold, Bloomberg data show.  Russia-dedicated equity funds posted redemptions for the
eighth week, registering a net outflow of $33 million in the
week ended June 13, compared with $48 million in the week
before, according to UralSib Capital, which cited EPFR Global
data.  Federal Grid Co. rose 1.8 percent after Kommersant reported
deputy prime minister  Igor Shuvalov  ordered ministers to present
a plan to sell state stakes in MRSK Holding’s subsidiaries by
tomorrow. Prospects for the government selling a stake in
Federal Grid and power distributor MRSK faded after the
government ordered MRSK to merge with the high-voltage
transmission monopoly.  OAO Magnit, Russia’s largest food retailer by market value,
advanced 7.5 percent this week after May sales jumped 32 percent
from a year earlier on new store openings.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 1.1 percent to 923.96,
heading for the biggest weekly gain since February. Russian
stocks trade at 4.9 times  estimated earnings , having lost 1.9
percent this year. That compares with a 0.8 percent gain for the
 MSCI Emerging-Market Index (MXEF)  which trades at 9.5 times projected
earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  