-- Michigan, Canada Strike $3.4 Billion Detroit Bridge Deal
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-06-15T19:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/michigan-has-detroit-bridge-deal-with-canada-snyder-says.html
Michigan  and Canada agreed to build
a second bridge between Detroit and Windsor, Ontario, to compete
with the Ambassador crossing that has connected the two cities
since 1929.  The New International Trade Crossing will bolster
Michigan’s $70 billion-a-year trade with Canada, Prime Minister
 Stephen Harper  and Governor  Rick Snyder  said today at a press
conference in Windsor. Construction costs are estimated to be
between C$3.5 billion ($3.4 billion) and C$4 billion, and the
project will create 10,000 to 15,000 jobs in Ontario and
Michigan, according to documents provided to reporters.  “This is a great act of confidence in the future of the
North American economy at a critical time,” Harper told
reporters. “This is the single most important piece of
international infrastructure that this government will complete
while I’m prime minister.”  The bridge will ease congestion at the busiest crossing in
the world’s largest two-way trading relationship, Harper said,
and will take four to five years to build. While  Canada  will
help finance the project, Michigan won’t contribute any money,
Snyder told reporters.  Michigan has “gone through many difficult years,” Snyder
said. “We weren’t in a position to do this. They’re reaching
out to help us,” he said of Canada.  Busiest Crossing  A second span connecting Detroit and Windsor would
supplement the Ambassador Bridge about 2 miles north of the
planned crossing. More than C$130 billion ($127 billion) in
shipments and 8,000 trucks crossing the border at Detroit-
Windsor each day, according to Canadian  government data . Manuel Moroun, the billionaire owner and operator of the existing
bridge, has opposed a publicly financed competitor.  Canada’s transport department forecasts that truck traffic
will triple over the next 30 years. Canadian officials and
Snyder have been championing construction of a second bridge
amid resistance from some Michigan lawmakers and Moroun, 85, who
wants to build his own adjoining six-lane span.  Further design work and “property acquisition” on the
U.S. side is needed before construction can begin, according to
a statement from Harper’s office.  Construction will provide about 12,000 jobs annually for
each of the four years it will take for the structure to be
built, the  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based Center for Automotive
Research said in  a study  released yesterday.  ‘Economic Stimulus’  “The construction of the bridge itself will serve as an
economic stimulus, providing jobs and state revenues,” Kim
Hill, the center’s director of sustainability and economic
development, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “The region’s additional freight-shipping capability could
attract private-sector investment, augmenting the gross regional
product and creating more employment opportunities,” Hill
wrote.  The span’s private builder will be chosen by an
international agency consisting of three Michigan members and
three from Canada. Canada will make so-called annual
availability payments to the concessionaire to pay for financing
the design and construction of the bridge as well as operation
and maintenance.  While no tolls would be charged in Michigan for the use of
the New International Trade Crossing, Canada will levy charges
on drivers and revenues will be used to reimburse the Canadian
government, according to the statement from Snyder’s office.  No Cost  The Canadian government will pay all costs of land
acquisition in Canada and Michigan, and will pay as much as $500
million of the cost of an interchange to connect the bridge to
I-75 in  Detroit . That sum can be used by Michigan as matching
funds for U.S. highway money.  Neither Michigan nor any of its communities would be
obliged to pay any costs under the plan, Snyder said. “We’re
not asking for an appropriation; we’re not asking for taxpayer
money,” he told reporters.  Mickey Blashfield, director of The People Should Decide, a
Warren, Michigan-based group that seeks a statewide vote on the
bridge, said, “at long last, we welcome Governor Snyder out
into the public debate.”  “Beyond a press event, the governor needs to make his best
case for his government bridge,” Blashfield, who is also head
of government relations for the company that runs the Ambassador
Bridge, said in an e-mailed press release.  The Michigan Manufacturers Association in Lansing, the
Consulate General of Canada in Detroit and the Detroit Regional
Chamber helped fund the study, according to the Ann Arbor,
Michigan-based researcher.  ‘Tremendous Opportunity’  Sergio Marchionne , chairman and chief executive officer of
Chrysler Group LLC, said in a statement the bridge “represents
a tremendous opportunity to further strengthen the economies of
the U.S. and Canada, the future of our company and many other
businesses.”  “Ensuring a smooth crossing for both commerce and people
is essential to our just-in-time manufacturing process,” the
company said in the statement. “Delays at the border add cost
to each of our vehicles.”  The Canadian government expects Moroun’s company, Detroit
International Bridge Co., to sue to stop construction, the Globe
and Mail newspaper reported June 12. The company is also behind
a signature-gathering effort to put a referendum on the November
ballot for a constitutional amendment requiring voter approval
for such a project, the newspaper reported.  Lobbied Lawmakers  Moroun has lobbied lawmakers and funded television ads
labeling a publicly funded bridge a boondoggle. Moroun bought
the controlling interest in the bridge company in 1979,
outbidding  Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman of  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   The four-lane Ambassador was completed in 1929 by banker
Joseph Bower. At 7,490 feet (2,283 meters), it was the world’s
longest suspension bridge at the time, according to the bridge’s
website. The crossing carries one-quarter of the truck commerce
between the U.S. and Canada and more than 7 million vehicles a
year, according to the Public Border Operators Association.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Windsor, Ontario at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  