-- Microsoft Said to Agree to Buy Yammer for $1.2 Billion
-- B y   A s h l e e   V a n c e   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-06-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/microsoft-said-to-agree-to-acquire-yammer-for-1-2-billion.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest
software maker, has agreed to purchase Yammer Inc., operator of
a social network for businesses, for $1.2 billion, said a person 
familiar with the matter.  The deal is expected to be announced by the end of June, 
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the 
negotiations are private. Dee Anna McPherson, a spokeswoman for 
Yammer, declined to comment on a potential acquisition, as did
Frank Shaw, a spokesman for Microsoft.  Microsoft could add Yammer’s corporate social networking
tools to its Office and SharePoint software products for
businesses. Large information-technology companies are snapping
up nimbler startups, sometimes before they reach an initial
public offering, spending $17.4 billion on enterprise software
acquisitions in 2011, compared with $715.5 million in 2009, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  A deal for Yammer would follow other recent enterprise
software purchases centered around social media.  Salesforce.com
Inc. (CRM)  gained social-marketing tools through its $745 million
purchase of Buddy Media Inc. earlier this month, and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) 
recently bought two companies that analyze data on social-media
sites -- Vitrue Inc. and Collective Intellect Inc.  Venture Funding  San Francisco-based Yammer was founded in 2008 by David Sacks, the former chief operating officer at PayPal Inc. It has
raised more than $140 million in funding from venture firms,
including  Charles River Ventures Inc.  and  Emergence Capital
Partners.   Yammer is used by more than 200,000 companies, including
Ford Motor Co. and  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  It provides features for internal
corporate use that are similar to those found on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s
website. Yammer competes with  Jive Software Inc. (JIVE) , Chatter, run
by Salesforce.com., and Asana Inc., Facebook co-founder Dustin Moskovitz’s company.  Microsoft shares rose 2.3 percent to $30.02 at yesterday’s
close in New York. The stock has increased 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ashlee Vance in San Francisco at 
 avance3@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  